https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/77040.Lieutenant_Hornblower
One, Bush leads a pivotal attack and two, Hornblower is caught in a tough situation affecting his financial and married life, which would be easier to show through someone else's eyes rather than hearing it from the source.
While this is the second book in the series, it's actually the seventh book Forester wrote about Hornblower's career in the navy.
The series originally started with Hornblower having already obtained the rank of captain.
After Forester took the series to its natural resolution, he went back and did a bunch of prequels to fill in the details of his hero's early days.
Very well read!I wanted to read these because I really liked David Weber's Honor Harrington series & everyone, including the author, agree that it is a direct homage to the Hornblower series.
From most other authors, it would have seemed like pure filler.The story itself was very engaging & could have stopped at several points leaving me fulfilled &/or wanting more.
Forester took it a lot further along than I would have guessed or wanted (if asked) but again it worked well much to my amazement.
I guess a truly good author can break a lot of rules & keep me engaged.I'm definitely going to get others in this series & listen to them.
Now, Hornblower is the junior Lieutenant on the HMS Renown, a ship of the line.
This book is a very marked departure from the start of the Hornblower series.
And that is a very good thing.First, the story is NOT told from Hornblower's perspective.
Rather, the reader experiences the story and Hornblower's growth via a senior Lieutenant, Mr. Bush.
In the first book Hornblower can come across as a bit of a straight-edge.
Again, one of the things that I like about this story thus far is the adversity that Hornblower faces.
But Forester is his own writer, and this isn't a Wouk knock-off; the two authors develop their stories in distinctively different ways.Some of my basic comments in my review of the first book (https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...
(You'll learn what I mean if you read the book!) IMO, this was a shrewd move on the author's part.
Perhaps the main drawback of the book is the author's tendency to assume readers know a great deal more about technical matters (both those of early 19th-century ship handling and the card game whist) than this one does.
I'll definitely be continuing with the series for now, though I don't plan to read all of the (chronologically) later books.
Karijera casnog i pametnog mornara u surovoj sredini se nastavlja :) Ovog puta imamo vise akcija, cak i napad na utvrdjenje, a i sama radnja je nekako vise popunjena tako da se mnogo brze cita. Prosto vuce.Svi likovi u knjizi su fino realizovani i ostavljaju utisak pravih ljudi pa imamo likove za koje navijamo i koje mrzimo. Good times.A i kraj je odlican mada FU glavnom liku za sve muke koje je preziveo.U svakom slucaju preporuka.
At first Bush finds Hornblower fascinating, then he feels a twinge of jealousy, then some fear when he wonders if Hornblower is responsible for maiming Captain Sawyer (and putting him permanently out of commission), then wonder at Hornblower's self-control, then some admiration, before a return of anger, and finally a deep respect and devoted friendship for the junior officer who is destined to become his superior.It's an interesting move for an author of a series to make, but [C.S. Forester:]'s use of Bush in Lieutenant Hornblower is effective in a couple of pragmatic ways.
Not a lot of depth, but enormous fun.
All the editions seem to think they're short books on tape tied to the TV movies...oh well.This exceptional series continues with Lieutenant Hornblower and his move to another ship as 5th Lieutenant.
The Captain being a paranoid schizophrenic doesn't help a lot.After adventure, danger, death....intrigue Hornblower gains promotion to Commander, unfortunatly the promotion isn't confirmed before peace "breaks out".
Hornblower must pay back the difference in his Lieutenant's pay and the Commander's pay he'd started to receive, before he reverts back to that level.
I have read most of the Patrick O'Brien books, and it is unavoidable to compare the two series, a common element of which is the arbitrary and often unfair nature of a life controlled by the politics of the British navy.
What we don't get is an understanding of what Hornblower thinks about the risks he takes and the way luck plays a hand, since the story is not told from Hornblower's POV.
And, by the way, how did the captain fall into the hole?I understand from other reviewers that this is the only book in the series not from Hornblower's POV, which I think is probably a good thing.
I love Horatio Hornblower- both the character created by C.S. Forester and the series.
This book was enjoyable because I'm a Navy man and the exploits and heroics of the main character make it nearly impossible to put down.
If you crave action and excitement in a 19th century nautical setting, then you'll love this series.
In this book HH starts out on the HMS Renown- a ship of the line- in the British Navy.
This is the 9th book of my 2018 reading challenge and I made quick work of it because it's a real page turner.
This review is for the complete 11-book series of THE HORNBLOWER SAGA by C.S. Forester, which I just finished reading last night.[Note: Individual books have individual star ratings (mostly 5-star, a few 4-star), but the descriptive review will be the same for each, and encompass the entire series, as follows.]Actually, I just finished reading the complete series for the second time, the first being as a teenager some 30 years ago.It's remarkable to me that I have only just this moment realized that my own timeline regarding the two readings corresponds almost exactly to the age progression experienced by the main character in the course of these 11 novels.It's a 30-year journey unlike any other I have ever taken in books - full and deep and satisfying.This is the epic saga of fictional British naval hero HORATIO HORNBLOWER, who goes from a 17-year-old midshipman to a 46-year-old admiral during the "golden age of sail" which encompasses the Napoleonic Wars of the early 19th century.I'll list the 11 books in chronological order (not the order they were written), which is the best way, I believe, to read them:- MR.

I will simply state that I am a fan of this genre and thought that I should read this series if I wish to continue calling myself a fan.
However, now having read two books in this series I still think O'Brian and Woodman were better, certainly as regards sea lore and sailing knowledge.
I hope to see more of this as I continue in the series as much space was devoted to their relationship in this book and would be a shame to see that done for naught.
The second in my chronological tour through the Hornblower series.
Both so far have been an utter treat; the biggest testimony to which is the speed at which I consume them, at every possible, free, waking moment.
More heroics and ensuing self-recriminations; as well as masterfully concealed anxiety of a character who is fast becoming one of my all-time favorite fictional heroes.
Hornblower has heart!
Hornblower is not messing around!
And Hornblower proves that intellectuals are IN, about two hundred and fifty years before President Obama.Like is the case with all my favorite writers - when reading CS Forester, I feel I am in the hands of a master.

A very good book, very enjoyable, I would like to read more of these Horation Hornblower books.
Normally I can't stand stoic and unimaginative characters, but Bush is just so endearing, and Forester keeps making little asides like 'if Bush had been possessed of an imagination' and 'of course Bush saw nothing odd in Hornblower's desiring a position that placed him in great danger' and I love it.
'Course, this book being from Bush's POV, you don't get much of Hornblower's self-doubt coming through, but that's possibly a good thing now he's a proven officer.
Plus we get to watch Hornblower be endearingly awful at personal relationships.I just like this book a lot, I'm sorry, I'll shut up now.
The ships are wooden and so are the characters, and Forester seems much more comfortable writing about the former, using lots of jargon that means nothing to the general reader. The dialogue is awkward and everyone is a cipher, apart from the mad captain who, sadly, gets written out very quickly. But for all that, by the end of this book, I was warming to it. And now that I've finished it, I miss it. It just seemed to be getting going as I left it, which I suppose is the point of a long-haul series like this.
We start the story in what seems a few years on from his release from captivity at the end of the previous novel. This part of the saga focuses on the precarious nature of life as a sea officer. The suffering at the hands of a mad captain and just how quickly one's dreams of succession and promotion can be dashed over mere unfortunate circumstances beyond one's controls
One of the best of the Hornblower series. Intriguingly narrated from the perspective of his fellow officer Bush, who features strongly later in the series.
This is my second Hornblower novel(I'm reading them im chronological order instead of the order of publication). This book was a marked improvement to the first.Hornblower really begins to come into his own as a character. It perfectly sets the stage for the Napoleonic wars without being tedious. An interesting plot that has a lot of historical facts thrown in for flavor. Overall, it was a really good read. I'll be making another foray into the world of Horatio Hornblower soon!
Crisp prose moves the story along, further borne by depth of character deftly described and action, action, action, whether external or internal...
Very interesting...makes me want to read the other Hornblower books.
engrossing, completely :) and it was written years and years ago.
I'm now 1/2 way through this series and find it interesting that they were not written in chronological order.
The Happy Return (or Beat to Quarters)2.
It's the opposite so far in these (I'm in "Ship of the Line" today).
It's "Beat to Quarters" and "Ship of.." where there are a few instances of language (although I have to say that Forester is surely not reflecting the language of the British Navy!!).
I know he's going to disappoint me in "Lord Hornblower" but I'm interested to see how Forester handles the story & why he wrote it that way.
you will almost certainly enjoy this classic work...*I nearly forgot to add this- there was a really quite good British television (presumably the BBC, but I don't remember for certain) series based on C.S. Forester's Horatio Hornblower books made a few years ago; I haven't seen all the episodes, but I was lucky enough to catch the one based on this particular book when it was shown on PBS Masterpiece Theatre not long after it was produced.
Like I said, it is quite good- well worth watching.
All the action is seen from Bush's point of view and, since he's a stolid, unimaginative officer, very far from the high-wrought but controlled tension under which Hornblower lives, the book has a very different feel to the first: it's dashed hard to write through the eyes of a slightly dull man without the writing occasionally being a bit dull, and Forester only just survives the experiment in point of view.
And, yes, having started this way, that is how I will continue - at least for the next book (although if this one is written from the point of view of the woman Hornblower appears to have decided to marry at the end of this book - a mistake, I strongly suspect - then I'm not I'll be able to bear it).
Lots of action on sea and land in this adventure. Hornblower's ship Renown barely manages to avoid a mutiny, attacks a Spanish fortress in Santo Domingo where Hornblower leads a landing party to subdue and conquer the fort, and then they manage to get their prizes back to England only to discover that peace has been declared with France. Hornblower's temporary promotion to Commander is nullified, and he and his fellow officers are forced to earn a meager living on land. All turns out well in the end, though, and Hornblower is back in action fighting Napoleon. Great adventure books!
All of my Hornblower reviews are identical: simply a MUST READ. There are deeper, more detailed, and longer books (fictional and non-) about the period and the characters, but I've never found a book (much less a series) as captivating in character, rich in action, accurate in historical context, yet still with depth of character to make a reader care about the individuals as Forester's Hornblower books. I've read each again, and again, and again.
Comes across as "How Lieutenant Bush Learned to Stop Worrying and Love Lieutenant Hornblower," and I imagine if one was reading this series in publication order (rather than chronological order, as I was) it would be very welcome to see the main character largely through the perspective of a familiar recurring character and learn more about their earliest association. It wasn't a bad read as only the second of the Hornblower books I'd read, either.
