https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/10073506-tinker-tailor-soldier-spy
How am I supposed to maintain this level of paranoia with this level of incompetence?" Tweet from jkeeten's defunct Twitter account."I don't smoke but I always travel w/ a Zippo lighter in case I have to light a beautiful woman's cigarette or the wick of a Molotov cocktail." Another tweet from jkeeten's defunct Twitter account.The British Secret Service, resembling a corporation that has suffered sagging profits, has reshuffled key players, ousted others, and in the process forced George Smiley into retirement.
"He spoke as if you followed his reasoning, as if you were inside his mind all the time." Smiley is really fighting a war on two fronts with his enemies within the service and with the subterfuge of the Karla organization.
There are two more books in the Karla series...The Honourable Schoolboy and Smiley's People.
I'm one of many people who think that Tinker, Tailor, Soldier, Spy is the greatest espionage novel of all time.
He's gone much further than that, and written a book that's not just about espionage, which most people never come into contact with, but about betrayal, which we see all the time.
The thing about betrayal is that you're generally aware that it's happening before you know how, or why, or who.
Things used to be good, and now they're not, and you know that even if you do figure out what's happened you'll never be able to put it right.
So like any other self-respecting moron, I decided to read the book instead (or at least, before seeing the movie)—that way I could have everything explained to me nice, nice.But I was duped.When my friend asked me to go with him to see Tinker Tailor, I told him it was not possible.
And that’s when I decided to read the book.John le Carré’s novel retains all the plot complexity of the movie and then some, but it is delivered in such a way that is digestible.
I am generally very glad to have read this book despite having done so after seeing the movie.
There is no question that John Le Carré is a brilliant writer, and his plots are peppered with surprise spirals throughout each novel.The one difficulty I had with this book was in the beginning, and it was my own difficulty.
However, after Control died and there was a changing of the guard regarding running their Operations (including George Smiley’s dismissal from service), the mole now had to be one of the remaining four.
I am also looking forward to the next book in the series as there are likely to be many more changes for George Smiley to sort through and contribute to.
The writing was so insightful that it was easy to become invested in the fate of the characters.A quick plot summary: George Smiley is a retired British spy.
They had lost all calmness in one another's company; they were a mystery to each other, and the most banal conversation could take strange, uncontrollable directions.Besides Smiley, my favorite character in the book was young Bill Roach, a student at a prep school.
Here's an (abbreviated) early exchange between Jim and Bill that first showed me how well le Carré could write his characters:"What are you good at, Bill?""I don't know, sir," said Roach woodenly."Got to be good at something, surely; everyone is.

Tinker, tailor, soldier, spy  it’s the look at the firm from the inside.
Sounds really crazy.Intelligence work it is not guns and fast cars and agents themselves look more like tired office workers.
It is tedious, painstaking and endless digging in the archives, reading hundreds of reports to pick out this only one information, it’s patiently investigation of every new lead.
Because in the Circus there is a mole spying for Russian.
Don’t get me wrong, I’m not saying that LeCarre is a philosopher or something.
And yet in ways, this book is undeniably thrilling!Here, I think this passage from Wikipedia explains it better:Most of Cornwell's novels are spy stories set during the Cold War (1945–91) and feature Circus agents as unheroic political functionaries aware of the moral ambiguity of their work and engaged in psychological more than physical drama.[21] Cornwell's books emphasise the fallibility of Western democracy and of the secret services protecting it, often implying the possibility of East-West moral equivalence.[21] Moreover, they experience little of the violence typically encountered in action thrillers and have very little recourse to gadgets.
I loved the movie though (I’m a big Gary Oldman fan) so I thought what the heck, I’ll read the book.
I was a bit lost at first, trying to keep track of names and figure out what people were saying (especially since I’m not a Brit.) There are so many characters, and no one can be cataloged in a nice neat box.
Maybe if I hadn’t seen the movie, I would have been more curious to find out who the mole was, but I don’t think that’s it.
I want to read Smiley’s People because I’ve heard it’s even better than this book.
I had read  The Spy Who Came In From the Cold  on my honeymoon in Paris, and I remember liking it, but not rushing out to get more Le Carre.
Well, now I'm going to rush out to get more Le Carre.
I didn't give this five stars because it was a touch slow to get moving.
I think if I'd just been able to focus a little more, I would've been into the plot faster.
Le Carre has this ability to make every character a mystery.
So much is withheld from the reader, and yet the characters are fascinating.
on my honeymoon in Paris, and I remember liking it, but not rushing out to get more Le Carre.
Well, now I'm going to rush out to get more Le Carre.
Le Carre has this ability to make every character a mystery.
I think what put me off about the beginning of the book is that I became very interested in Jim Prideaux, then had to shift gears to Smiley.
Incredible!), it's so engrossing, I can't think of a reading experience that approximates it.
First I was in one character's head, then another, then back to the first.
Then there was a third character who mostly made cameo appearances and was clearly unimportant, but we spend time in his head too.
As if that's not confusing enough, different people narrate different parts of the story as master spy George Smiley (highly distracting name, I must say) interviews different players who describe their experiences to him.
The absence of a character about whom I cared even a little only added to my increasing disengagement from and disenchantment with the book.
Eventually I ended up finishing it just to be sure I wasn't missing something.
One central theme that I did not appreciate before this re-read is that the primary conflict, even when Le Carre tells the story from a British POV, is not between British spies and the Russians, but between Russia and America, with British spies taking sides, not always as expected.
The conflict between personal and patriotic motives plays out dramatically in each of the major characters.
I can't close without a word of pity for poor Smiley, whose wife has apparently become a promiscuous tramp.
In any case, it is extraordinary for the lead character to suffer this fate.UPDATE 12-25-17 ...
reading again ...
I remember that when I read this (and the other Karla novels) years ago, I ripped through them to the detriment of my understanding of all the twists and turns of the plot.
So although I enjoyed them immensely, when I was all finished (and even during the reading) I felt confused about what story le Carre had actually told.So a couple years ago I watched (Netflix) the BBC adaptation of the books with Alec Guinness.
Oft billed as the "anti-Ian Flemming," John Le Carre inverts all the typical trappings of the spy-thriller: in place of the handsome, gadget-happy g-man we're given a sacked, middle-aged cuckold whose attention to detail and intellectual virtuosity quietly derail Moscow Central's invisible vise-grip on the Circus.Note that "quietly," as the tension here is all cerebral, the violence and spectacle off-stage, and the stakes themselves, though no less dire than the fate of the world, are entirely ideological.The Cold War assurance of mutual destruction provides the British imagination with a field of conflict perfectly tailored to the restriction of overt or "hot" action (Smiley's also impotent), which is then carefully sublimated through elaborately mannered, gentlemanly games of intelligence and subterfuge.
Himself a former blown secret agent for MI6, Le Carre writes with all the authority and flare one would expect from a once genuine article, though without all the lurid technical gun-fetishism of a Tom Clancy or Ian Flemming.
Whilst this is a spy story set during the Cold War, there is no James Bond bling to it.George Smiley is a fascinating character.
As well as George there is a vast array of characters, too many to mention and at times I did feel a little confused as to who was who.
I was expecting the plot to jump right into the thick of it, so I was a little confused by the opening scenes in a school, but everything came together nicely.I have now been compelled to read more by John Le Carré, including ‘The Little Drummer Girl’, though I might watch the BBC adaptation coming soon first this time.
Just one of those perfect books.
It was a great synchronicity that this popped up on one of my reading lists right now, as one of my gaming groups is about to embark on a game of Cold City, set in post-War Berlin, playing representatives of different countries in BPRD-like surroundings.Note: The rest of this review has been withdrawn due to the changes in Goodreads policy and enforcement. You can read why I came to this decision here.In the meantime, you can read the entire review at Smorgasbook
How amazing--a spy novel where virtually nothing happens, and yet it's compelling and suspenseful nonetheless. It's really a testament to le Carre's writing that he pulls this off. A wonderfully cerebral work.
Apparently I'm turning into a really shitty reader.This is the first Le Carré I've read, and whatever, I think I expected a little more James Bond than, well, George Smiley - a name which every single time was mentioned (which was quite a lot) always made me think of his muppet-brother, Guy Smiley.
(See first note about becoming a really shitty reader.)And in my current mood I wanted some violence.
The one time in my life I'm not in the mood to figure out a puzzle and this is the book I choose to read.
Veterans of Britain's secret service refer to MI6 as the Circus, and when Tinker Tailor Soldier Spy opens, our hero George Smiley has been kicked out of the show.
"'Not being blown about by every little modern wind?' Huh?"In many ways, Tinker Tailor Soldier Spy has the feel of a novel that was written in a past age.
This is a world in which the English Empire still exists within the living memory of England's citizens, as opposed to dusty archives of post-colonial libraries.Tinker Tailor Soldier Spy is not a novel for readers seeking the action-adventurer.
***2018 Summer of Spies*** Well, you couldn’t get much further away from the playboy-spy image than this, could you? George Smiley, the chubby everyman who’s always polishing his glasses, is the antithesis of James Bond. Rather than Miss Moneypenny, there’s a whole department of women known as “the mothers.” And instead of posh casinos, George spends a lot of time in a run-down hotel, reading swathes of paper files.This is spy work done through the archives, searching for patterns in the paperw
Rather than Miss Moneypenny, there’s a whole department of women known as “the mothers.” And instead of posh casinos, George spends a lot of time in a run-down hotel, reading swathes of paper files.This is spy work done through the archives, searching for patterns in the paperwork, and through careful interviews with those who have been betrayed and/or let go.
We have hints that Smiley had his daring days when he was younger, but he’s now a middle-aged man using his intellect instead of his muscles, carefully piecing together the story.

I caught up with a friend a few weeks ago when I had just started this book and he said he had given up on the film and drifted off to sleep as he had completely lost track of what was going on and in the end couldn’t care either way anyway.
This still isn’t my favourite of his novels (I think maybe The Constant Gardner, Mission Song or Absolute Friends would have to fight it out for that honour – I envisage a three way arm-wrestle), but this was good enough to keep me interested, even though I knew, more or less, how it was going to turn out from about as soon as it started making sense.
'Tinker, Tailor' continues the dramatic arc of a narrative premise which LeCarre started writing more than 10 years prior; when he created the 'George Smiley' hero; when he created some of the other figures in his fictional world of British espionage services.
No other genre-author had the creativity to provide this sense of 'shared history' for readers; the built-up residuum of life which leCarre's introspective hero--George Smiley--must sift through as he goes about his discouraging investigatory task.
And thus began what would be a year and a half-long obsession with George Smiley and his British Circus.
Having now read every last book in which Smiley is even cursorily mentioned, I can say steadfast that this is Le Carre's masterwork.
It is a warm, immersive book.
I literally read this book three times in a row before moving on to the next in the trilogy (The Honourable Schoolboy).
It is one of the very few books I know I'll re-read, over and over, for the rest of my life.
I've wanted to read the George Smiley books since watching the BBC adaptation of 'Tinker, Tailor, Soldier, Spy' back in the 1970s.
Everything I had heard about the source material suggested joy and wonder would await and, so far, I’m pleased to report, that’s exactly what I have found.I have read the series, up until 'Tinker, Tailor, Soldier, Spy', in quick succession…'Call for the Dead' (1961) A really intelligent, beautifully written novel, and a great introduction to the Smiley books.
Needless to say Karla, his nemesis in the East German intelligence service, is only too aware of Smiley’s unique qualities.This book is a joy from start to finish.
A majority of the novel (perhaps I'm wrong about this, but it did feel like it) seems to involve Smiley sitting in hotels or houses designated for use by British intelligence (otherwise known as the Circus), reading secret files, remembering things that have happened and thinking about people he's known, trying to figure out who Moscow's mole in the Circus might be.
Standing at the middle of a secret stage, playing world against world, hero and playwright in one: oh, [he] had loved that, all right.- the fact that I never felt as though I knew this character except through Smiley's reflections, and that I could hardly remember an actual scene in which he appeared, lessened the effect somewhat.
One of the greatest living British writers hardly needs me to talk him up, but I truly am in awe of le Carré's skills.The plot is fairly simple.
No edge, no wish to score: only a wish to have the truth”The truth is always Smiley’s ultimate goal, “treasure” in the spy-jargon of the novel, and he will not let ambition or vanity or personal feelings keep him from it.
His personality and character emerge in fits and starts, almost incidentally, because Smiley isn’t one to talk about himself much, to reveal his thoughts and emotions.
There we were with our own Bill Hayden traitor in our midst.For those who aren't familiar with the story, our Bill was part of the Labour Whitlam Government that was sacked by the Governor General on behalf of the Queen in the mid-seventies.
He was leader of the party for a while a bit later, becoming more to the right as time when on, culminating in accepting the position of - of all things - Governor General as an ironic end to his career.You wouldn't read about it.Later: the series was great and although I don't particularly understand how they got away with shortening it into a movie, that is well done too.
A masterpiece of spy noir. And the 1979 BBC tv series, too. (Watching again now)
