https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/20417.Have_Space_Suit_Will_Travel
Heinlein work read and still one of my favorites.Heinlein produced his juvenile books for Charles Scribner's Sons mainly in the 1950s and these were what many consider to be some of his finest work.
There begins a golden opportunity for SF in the Golden Age!Brimming with 50s kitsch, but in a loveable way, Heinlein appealed to his juvenile audience with a fun adventure story and to his growing older fans with some cool SF.
My 2016 reread left me nostalgic and endearing, and more appreciative of his talent than before.A MUST read for RAH fans and SF readers in general.
The young boys of 1958 are going to love it.
The whole setup was so clever, with the boy entering a jingle-writing contest for soap to win a trip to the moon?
She sure does love soap commercials.
You want to put a girl in there so to keep the women's movement off our backs, but she's still young enough to be a bratty kid so we don't have to worry about the sex.
We know what sells, and let me tell you, there is nothing boys like better than reading about math!HEINLEIN: Uh, yeah, I can put in some math.
It's a toss-up whether people love it more for the good-science lodged right in rip-roaring adventure tale that includes being a space pirate or running on the moon in a space-suit of your own construction from bug-eyed-monsters (BEMs) or whether it's just because there's a delightfully well-written story with equally delightful smart children full of action, gung-ho, bravery, and the willingness to stand up and fight against enormous odds.Adventure!This is a re-read for me, and I think I might have judged it too harshly in my youth.
But I thought that most of the negative sides I had heard about of this author couldn't possibly be included in one of his books for juveniles so I joined the group read.And wouldn't you know?
*lol* Considering the age of the book, I'd say this was one of the foundations for humanity being regarded as a still child-like species by developed, benevolent aliens (after all, it's a trope often used and Heinlein is a classic writer for a reason it would seem).
Instead of explosions and battles, wits win the day, which I always like and which is definitely more realistic considering that the heroes are children going up against quite some violent aliens.
I was fortunate enough to read Have Space Suit - Will Travel when I was a geeky 12 year old boy, and I loved it.
If YOU'RE a geeky 12 year old boy, there's a fair chance you'll love it too!
He enters this cut-out-the-coupon-and-complete-the-slogan competition (a lot of description of how he intelligently maximizes his chances) and wins an old ex-NASA space suit.
He fixes it up, and there are some great passages showing how much fun it is to be able to walk around in your own space suit.
It's definitely one of the best examples of this genre.If you're NOT a geeky 12 year old boy...
Heinlein did it differently in his juveniles.He basically transitioned from super-character to super-smart character, asking "what if it were cool to be really smart", and thus his characters had no special powers at all - other than that they obviously listened during science class.
And this means that the science has to be correct, or the book won't work.And thus began a revolution in science fiction.
Have Space Suit—Will Travel is the story of Clifford "Kip" Russell, an all-American young lad with a passion for space travel, particularly for a trip to the Moon.
At the end of the day though, I had a pleasant time reading Have Space Suit—Will Travel but I would have appreciated it much more had I read it three or four decades ago when the juvenile styling would have struck more of a chord with me.
Is technological advancement social advancement?4 May 2014 I must say that when I read the first few pages of this book it had me in hysterics, particularly with the way Kip's father did his tax returns (by working it out in his head, then throwing a heap of money into an envelope and posting it off). Heinlein, in opening this story, created a rather eccentric family living in Centreville in what is known as small town USA. However, when I say eccentric, it is because Kip's father used to be a t
Is technological advancement social advancement?4 May 2014	I must say that when I read the first few pages of this book it had me in hysterics, particularly with the way Kip's father did his tax returns (by working it out in his head, then throwing a heap of money into an envelope and posting it off).
It is clear that the Wormface were an advanced race of aliens that still had violent and dominating tendencies, and they were put out of action because of this, however while humanity was found to be in a similar position, giving them advanced technological knowledge is hardly going to change their social attitudes.
Apart from the delicious technical details of making a spacesuit work; faster than light travels to Pluto, to the Magellanic Cloud, and beyond; the horrors of being held hostage by an alien race that views other sentient beings as animals; another alien race with indefinable, changeable physical form and the ability to convey the kind of warmth, peace and comfort of being mothered feels like; this book offers more mundane stuffs like how to win a slogan-writing contest held by a soap manufacturer, what to do when the bully of the town heckles you in front of your peers, and such insight like the fact that you are never truly lucky.
The alien creature called Mother Thing speaks in songs in this book, and I was completely at a loss as to how each bits of song sounds like.
I read this when I was seven and wanted to be Peewee so bad! But then I discovered Sophocles and decided I wanted to be Antigone instead. Looking back on it, I think Mom was happier with my Peewee phase.
Entertaining (some great one-liners), the science sounds plausible - not saying it is, I wouldn't know - but one could imagine a young boy reading this and being inspired.
I hope that last sentence is wrong and that girls read this too.
The narrator is a teenage boy fresh out of high school.
His side-kick is an 11 year old female genius, greatly admired and relied upon by the narrator.
Important also is 'The Mother Thing', seemingly all knowing and all good.
I wouldn't exactly say this makes the book a model of female emancipation in the science world.rest here: https://alittleteaalittlechat.wordpre...
He denigrates the public education system (one of his common themes in his books), and Kip is smart enough to teach himself advanced mathematics, geometry and physics but yet must “settle” for going to the local state (read - inadequate) college because he isn’t good enough to get into MIT.
The other issue I had with the story were the long, and I do mean long, graphic descriptions of how a space suit works, or Kip describing in mathematical terms how he is going to escape (again, part of Heinlein’s soapbox), and so on.
This is the first science fiction novel that I recall reading, and fifty years later I still remember it fondly.
Heinlein, in his prime, was the best ever.I've just listened to the audiobook version of the novel, which is a full-cast dramatization rather than a single reader.
I rather enjoyed it; the young lady reading Peewee was most expressive, and the sound effects were enjoyable.
There was one line that made me laugh out loud; he observes that his slip-stick (slide rule) is the best invention since girls.
All in all a most enjoyable story.
fourth read - 14 March 2011 - I remember reading Have Space Suit-Will Travel from the library as a kid, and bought my own copy in 1980 in order to re-read it.
What engineer would not enjoy being praised the way Heinlein does?
At the same time, there is an arrogance in Heinlein's politics, with which I am not comfortable.I've read most of Heinlein's books, and I again enjoyed this one as a re-read, but without the sense of nostalgia it elicited, I probably would not feel the same.
For example, when I recently read Citizen of the Galaxy for the first time, It was not the same.
One of Heinlein's early juveniles, this one has all the elements seen throughout his juvenile series: a plucky boy hero who's always wanted to go to space, precocious girl heroine (who fortunately is too young to be mooning over boys), Father Knows Best who turns out to be a hidden genius and former Very Important Person in the government, and interesting 50ish aliens.The thing I like about Heinlein's juveniles is that they still hold up pretty well 50 years later, if you can ignore all the references to slide rules.
Centerville High Schooler, part time soda jerk, from a poor family, enters a soap company contest,literally sending thousands of slogans.First prize for best entry, is a trip to Luna .Mildly disappointed winning the second prize , an old Space Suit.His eccentric father DR.
Russell, lets his son do anything he wishes ,as long as it doesn't cost the dad money.
Wow! Almost anything I read too soon after this will probably sound bad! This was my first Full Cast Audio, and I must say that the performances of the entire cast was so superb, I wouldn't have been able to imagine the characters any better had I read it. That Peewee character, especially, was just too cute. Even some of the bad guys were so comically well done that it makes me feel bad calling them bad guys!
[Though even the alien female in this book – a kind of intergalactic policewoman – is given the name "Mother Thing", and is valued primarily for showering everyone she comes across with lashings of mother love.]Among human women, there are various varieties of idiots, and exceptional women who grow up to marry exceptional men, whereupon their brains dribble out of their ears.There are three human females and one alien female given time in this book.
And it will be the same for the future readers.This book is generally considered as one of Heinlein's juvenile books, because the protagonists are young people: Kip is a high school senior, and Peewee is a girl of about ten; but Heinlein's writing is for all ages.
Adults who have not yet lost all of their imagination will also relate to the main characters well and delight in a good story line which takes the reader from the earth to the moon to Pluto to another galaxy and back again.As said before the writing is simple, straightforward and easy to follow.
Maybe I didn't want to believe that a book in a juvenile series will actually be juvenile. Oh well, not the best introduction for me for Heinlein's work.
3.5 out of 5Have Space Suit - Will Travel is an entertaining, humorous, and optimistic young adult science fiction adventure grounded in a satisfying combination of imagination, believable science, and some interesting social commentary. Liked the characters and loved the scientific explanation and the fact that they occupy such a central role in the story!
Kip's main goal in life is to go to the moon, so while he's working on one day becoming an engineer, he enters a jingle-writing contest whose first prize is a moon trip.
Kip's adventures take him and his 10-year-old genius sidekick Peewee (poor kid...she's much more charming than her name lets on) to the moon, to Pluto, and to Vega, among other places.This was one of Robert Heinlein's books for children, although it would probably be considered Young Adult today.
The breadth of their knowledge is huge; these are some well-educated kids.My only complaint is that Robert Heinlein just doesn't know how to end a book.
I even read the title as ‘Have Space Suit- Will time travel’ for quite a long time, till the point where I was pestered to question the occurrence of my motive.First 4 chapters were golden, nostalgic had me engulfed in the engineering of Space Suits and Science of gravity and heavenly bodies in general.
Then it started giving me the same taste A Wrinkle in Time gave.Still I kept reading, I genuinely wanted to know what happens in next page.
I will never re read this book, but will definitely gift this to my kid one day when he/she is still a kid, If I ever get married or find a significant other.
“Many problems can be solved by a man not frightened by them.” I was planning to read this for a long time, after Andy Weir, author of The Martian, mentioned about the book in one of the Reddit threads.The book tells the story of Kip, a teenager who wins a spacesuit through a contest.
He meets Peewee, another young girl, who is intelligent and determined like Kip. The story goes through their galactic/inter-galactic adventure and the obstacles they encounter en route.The book is short and is intended for young adults.
But I must admit, I loved reading story.
Eh. Didn’t love the blatant misogyny, fatphobia, or other issues and just didn’t find it all that engaging otherwise either.
That said, I didn't actually dislike it; I just felt it was too long.I didn't enjoy the whole trial/examination section near the end of the book.I like the way Kip's world has been expanded (on Earth as well) by his adventures, and how he has found a meaningful dream to pursue (rather than just a kid's dream of going to the moon because it seems cool).HIGHLIGHTS:--The conversations with Oscar, he's actually my favorite "character"--Kip's dream, especially all it's references to other SF adventures--Kip's "dead hero" vs "live louse" philosophy.I COULD HAVE DONE WITHOUT: The over abundance of math & electronics stuff (very typical of Heinlein).
Galloping Gorillas!!!, this book was a blast. I love Kip and Pee Wee. The narrator, Mark Turetsky, had that "Golly Gee" vibe to his performance that fit the book perfectly. Thanks to a shout out by Charlie Jane Anders in All the Birds in the Sky whose book was brought to my attention by the Sword and Laser podcast, I now have the perfect 8 hour drive listen.
My first Heinlein! I liked it! This quote is perfect: A reverence for life does not require a man to respect nature's obvious mistakes. I love intelligent insults. AUDIOBOOK: I panicked when I realised it was a full cast. I almost called it quits because of that. (I blame my experience of Tamora Pierce's full cast audiobooks.) But I persevered, and I'm glad I did.
YA science fiction written in 1958. Lots of action, great characters. Alot of fun, in a retro/futuristic way.
Kind of an odd story where an engineering-prodigy kid is thrown into some exceptional circumstances. I loved that, when Kip disappointingly wins a used spacesuit intstead of an all-expense-paid trip to the Moon, he makes the best of it and learns how to recondition it into working shape. His friendship with Peewee is cute, and their bid for freedom trekking across the Moon's surface was my favorite part of the story.While there are youth-oriented Heinleins I would recommend more than this, it's very readable and a good candidate for science-fiction-hungry kids. Or adults :)
