https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/60222.Truly_Madly_Yours
After she returns to town, he realises he can't stay away from her even though he should, which causes some conflicting acts (him being a jerk and protective at the same time).Delaney is a hairdresser, stuck in a town she doesn't want to live in, and forced to endure seeing Nick all the time, the man who humiliated her years ago.
4-4  stars – Contemporary RomanceRachel Gibson has a knack for making me enjoy her books, despite that her heroes are often players and jerks who exhibit at least one major asshat moment with the heroine.Nick is the boy who teases, taunts, and pulls the girl’s pigtails because he secretly likes her. But in this case, it was a snowball in the face that gave the heroine twin black eyes. And as an adult, he continues his mean streak where the heroine is concerned, but it’s all because he’s fiercely
4-4 ½ stars – Contemporary RomanceRachel Gibson has a knack for making me enjoy her books, despite that her heroes are often players and jerks who exhibit at least one major asshat moment with the heroine.Nick is the boy who teases, taunts, and pulls the girl’s pigtails because he secretly likes her.
Eventually he realizes he acted like a jerk and what follows is some pretty sweet groveling.I didn’t really feel the “romance” all that convincingly in this one, but the H/h have an amusing hate/love relationship, nonetheless.
I can’t remember a day when I didn’t love you.
(hide spoiler)]And here’s Nick on his bike.
Re-read, again, 12/10/2015++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++Re-read -- 04/19/2014Overall Rating = 4.5 StarsBook Cover / Book Blurb / Book Title = 3 / 3 / 3 = 3 StarsWriter’s Voice = 4.5 StarsCharacter Development = 3 StarsStory Appreciation = 5 StarsEnding = 4 StarsWorth the Chili = 4 Stars -- [..
These stories aren't complicated but I just love them.
Very needed right now when RL is a crazy place.Thank you Rachel Gibson.
I love your stories.
LOVE THEM!!Happy Reading!+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++Original read 04/12/20124 StarsI just love Rachel Gibson.
You have a real bastard who controlled everything around him.
One of my favorites by this author.
I read all the time, and Rachel Gibson is easily one of my all time favorites.
If you like contemporary, funny but with depth stories, and of course sexual tension and some hot love scenes, this book (and the author) is a must read.
I don't usually read books over and over (why would I?
I have a TBR shelf with 100+ unread books!) but this book I have read three times, and I know I will read over and over again.
Some times I just need my fix of a great Rachel Gibson.
It reads more like fiction in parts, but don't misunderstand...this is a "romance first" kind of book.
Their dad was not a nice man...he spent his life denying his paternity of Nick and controlling Delaney.
I didn't really care for Nick until close to the end of this book.
Delaney's just trying to life her own life when a stipulation in her father's will forces her to live in Truly for one year.
During this year the reader "experiences" life in Truly, Idaho and watches sparks fly between these two adversaries.
Books like this are the ones which make me realize that sometimes ratings will never really tell me how I will feel about a book after reading it.
I thought that this book, being a 3.92 AVG rating, would be a good and entertaining read, but it was so so so much more.
I really don't know, but what I do know is that this was definitely my fav book from this author so far.
I just wanna tell the ones who didn't that this was a great read.
After a ten-year absence, Delaney Shaw has returned to her hometown for her stepfather's funeral.
Delaney will inherit three million dollars if she stays in the small town of Truly, Idaho for a year.
Now he is leaving Nick a fortune in land with one stipulation.
He has to keep his hands off of Delaney Shaw.
Is the town big enough for the two of them?Delaney is a hairdresser and decides to open her own shop while she is staying in Truly.
Nick and Delaney try to keep their distance, but can't seem to keep their hands off of each other.
I tried, I really tried to like this book but it was full of eye-rolling cliches and was so painfully predictable, I knew what would happen after the first chapter. Ugh, I think I'll skip the rest of the series.
As much as I want to like Rachel Gibson's books, I really can't. Not for the lack of trying because Amazon knows I've tried so many times. Her way of writing is just confusing for me and most of the time, it doesn't hold my interest very much.This is goodbye.This is final...
(There is usually more missing going on than hitting.) Since I have given up on this author and have stopped buying her books, I don't know what possessed me to re-read TRULY, MADLY, YOURS a second time around.
Delaney naturally rebels when she hits 18-years-old and leaves town after a brief encounter with local bad-boy, Nick.
Nick has issues - BIG issues - and we all know that those alpha males with big issues and no intentions of ever taking part in a real relationship are the ones who fall the hardest.Ten years after Delaney's departure, her step-father dies.
While I liked Laney, Nick is a complete loss.
Worse, he's a complete loss who gets things his way every freaking time.
He spends the entire story slicing into Laney in thousands of tiny cuts and while she doesn't just take it, he never, ever, walks it back or apologizes or gives even a hint of reform.
Really, Laney is a hoot and the only thing that connected me to the story at all.
That's the middle of my steam tolerance and yet another area where Nick has things way too much his own way.
This was just what I needed. Gibson reminds me of a cross between Jill Shalvis and Susan Elizabeth Phillips. And the audio was really good!
This book kept me awake till 3 am last night..It reminded me why I loved nice, funny, sweet romance books, I am still a romantic after all and I guess I'll always enjoy a good chicklit.This is the story of Delaney who comes back to her hometown after leaving ten years ago following a not-so-nice experience involving the town's bad boy Nick.
He grows up hating his father who never acknowledged him and watching him accept the seven year old girl who moves in along with his new wife from the sidelines.Nick is your common bad boy.
Cover & Title - Cover 1/5, seriously it totally put me off reading this.
"Just don't tell me that.” Favorite Character - NickI think throughout almost the entire book i wanted to punch Nick so it is crazy he ended up being me favorite character.
I hate players & cheaters but yet something made me love him as much as i hated him, you could tell Delaney felt the same way.
It was an easy read with loads of laughs along the way.
I would recommend this book & plan on reading more by this author.
After liking Tangled Up in You and Sex, Lies & Online Dating, I went and bought just about Gibson's entire backlist.
It gripped me from the first page to the last, making long so much for Nick to get together with Delaney.
I rarely resonate this much with the H & H but TMY is one of those few.Nick is the quintessential bad-boy down from the top of his head down to the Harley between his legs.
Yes, I'm talking about the motorbike, too.What a wonderful ride Ms Gibson has given me.
Oh my god, I would've started reading Rachel Gibson's books sooner if I knew how amazing they are; it was flawless. A sexy, funny, entertaining and very touching story. *wipes the tears away*I really couldn't it put down, it was extremely addicting. And I loved how everything happened so fast without giving any useless information on people or places. I'm totally in love with Rachel Gibson's writing style (And Nick Allegrezza ;] LOL)right now.I wanna read another Rachel Gibson book ASAP!, any suggestions?
***I posted this review last year but I recently re-read this for the 8th time, in celebration if the new cover reveal. I've named this my all-time favorite book. I was curious to see if it was still true.*** I’ve mentioned this a couple of times on my blog. While I am a very undescisive person I can honestly say that without a doubt my all-time FAVORITE book is Truly Madly Yours by Rachel Gibson. My sister let me borrow this book back in 2007 when I was barely getting back into reading. It ins
While I am a very undescisive person I can honestly say that without a doubt my all-time FAVORITE book is Truly Madly Yours by Rachel Gibson.
Nick always loved finding new ways to torment Delaney one minute then be really nice and sweet to her the next.
Most of this book is told from Delaney's POV, but there are a few parts that are told from Nick's POV which really lets you see that behind his cold and indifferent exterior, he is just a big ol' softie who is just begging to be loved.Truly Madly Yours is contemporary romance at its absolute best!
Siempre es un placer leer Rachel pero este libro me aburrió en demasiadas partes como para ser generosa.Los protagonistas estaban bien.
Porque de que su pluma es genial lo es, siempre me recuerda a los mejores libros de SEP pero en este me recordó a los peores, no me mal entiendan el libro es bueno, pero hasta ahí, yo esperaba pasión y amor inconmensurable, pero su romance no sé ni cuando surgió y francamente creo que era más lujuria que otra cosa.Las escenas de sexo me parecieron metidas a la fuerza y la declaración de amor me quedó debiendo demasiado.
I love reunion stories, especially where someone is returning to a town they left.
I love stories with a goody-two-shoes heroine who feels stifled by what people expect and wants to be something else but can't figure out.Understanding that this is a book I see through rose-colored glasses, there are other things I think they book does well.
Delaney has to learn that who she was doesn't have to define who she is now, even if she is back in the small town she was from.
This was such a great second chance romance novel! I loved Delaney and I loved Nick too. Together? They were so swoony! This won't be my last Rachel Gibson!Review to come!
I read 3 books one after another by this author and this one was the third. I didn't like it as much as See Jane Score or Simply Irresistible. Yet, imo Rachel Gibson is still better than most of the new CR writers.I will try Ms Gibson's other books now and then and see if I still like her products. She is worth to try.
I would probably give this one a 2.5, only because I expect much better from Rachel Gibson.
If Delaney left town, Nick would get $3 million and if they told people they'd slept together, she'd get her stepfather's property.
Then they could, I don't know...SWITCH.Anyway, I thought the H/H had a lot of chemistry, but I just couldn't warm up to Nick's assholery.
Furthermore, I couldn't stomach that Delaney was ok with his assholery.
I also think they didn't resolve the issues between Nick and Delaney's families.
I still LOVE Rachel Gibson, but this particular story didn't do it for me.
This one was a sweet fluffy read.
This is my favorite book of all time! I've reread it at least 5 times over the years. A romance must read!!!
I didn't know this was one of "those" romance books.
Really....it's on the bottom of my genre preferences.
I liked Laney, the MC.
Nick as a character however, was like a male diva.
He seemed like so much work.
I don't care how good looking he was...I need more than that.
Ugh. Besides Nick, I didn't care for the writing.
It was predictable, repetitive, and some of this was just painful from dialogue to descriptive strokes.
Now even with that said, some of the descriptive strokes were creatively written, but they were not the norm here.
Me encanta como escribe Rachel! no siento que sean historias memorables, pero es la forma en que las cuenta o el relato (como nos gusta decir) lo que me gusta y me atrapa con cada libro escrito por ella. Un verdadero gusto su lectura.
Querido Nick,Tal vez si te hubiese conocido en otras circunstancias, con otro estado anímico, o hace tres años cuando me gustaban los chicos malos y era más inmadura, entonces tal vez podrías haberme caído mejor.
De verdad si lo haces te darás cuenta de que la vida es más sencilla.
Y también existe la autoestima, y al parecer nadie te habló de eso.Tus momentos "Oh, le odio pero dejo que me manosee y después me insulte" fueron los más detestables.
Odié a los protagonistas y sólo hay un par de momentos que disfruté y evitaron que lo enviara al foso de mi calificación.
Rachel Gibson novels are usually a sure win, but I really did not like 'Truly Madly Yours'.
There were barely any supporting characters that were given any real development so the focus was solely on Nick and Delaney, but the whole plot was super repetitive.
Delaney hated her Mother at the start of the book and they still hadn't developed beyond that point by the end.
Nick's mother was stubborn and bitter, and she was still that way in the end.
Yep, he had some crappy stuff happen as a kid and I totally understood why he never wanted to make amends with Henry but his complete disrespect for women including Delaney was just too strong.
She left behind her controlling step father and a mother who wanted to change almost everything about her.
Nick is left two very expensive pieces of property and all he has to do is not engage in a sexual relationship with Delaney for one year.
I enjoy bad boy or rebel hero in a lot of books but not if they spend almost the entire book purposely hurting the heroine.
Nick, Delaney'nin üvey babasının öz oğlu aslında ve çocukluklarından beri Nick ile aralarında bir nevi çekişme var.
Zaten ölen babanın bir nevi isteği de bu ama onun amacı Shaw neslinin tükenmesini istememesi.
Kitapta en komik olan yer Delaney ve Nick'in, Delaney'nin annesi tarafından basılmalarıydı.
Tabi Nick Delaney'nin annesine tehdit savururken gideceğini söylemesi üzerine Nick bir nevi yıkılıyor ve bu yüzden de eşeklik edip Delaney'nin kalbini kırıyor.
Kitap tabi ki mutlu sonla bitiyor ama ilişkilerinin dallanıp budaklanmasını izlemek eğlenceli.
Bir yerde yazar sanki işleri bir anda hızlandırdı gibi geldi ama kitap onun dışında güzel bir romance macerası.
