https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/298357.Friday_the_Rabbi_Slept_Late
When the body of a young nanny, Elspeth Bleech, is found on the temple property and her purse in the rabbi's car he becomes a suspect in the crime.Hugh Lanigan is the Irish-Catholic police chief of Barnard’s Crossing and initially questions Rabbi Small because Elspeth Bleech's body was found on the temple grounds and her purse was in his car.
When things start turning nasty in the small town Rabbi Small employs his Talmudic wisdom and scholarly skill to solve the crime and reveal the identify of the murderer.Although this story centers around the murder of a young woman there is not a lot of violence.
Rabbi Small is a very likable character as is Hugh Lanigan.
Out of an entirely random find at the library, I've found a great little mystery series. The charm of this book was not so much in the mystery itself, which was middling, but in the Jewish culture portrayed and explained and in the character of Rabbi Small, who is a naive but clever intellectual with out of the box solutions to Temple matters and murder mysteries.
4 stars.I had been vaguely aware of this series before but hadn't paid it much attention until I was introduced to the Guardian newspaper's list of 1000 Novels Everyone Should Read and found this first book of the series in the Crime section. I am so glad that I finally read this! I found the rabbi David Small very likeable, although he played a smaller part in the story than I expected. The relationship between the Catholic chief of police and the Jewish rabbi promises to be an ongoing pleasure
4½ stars.I had been vaguely aware of this series before but hadn't paid it much attention until I was introduced to the Guardian newspaper's list of 1000 Novels Everyone Should Read and found this first book of the series in the Crime section.
I found the rabbi David Small very likeable, although he played a smaller part in the story than I expected.
The relationship between the Catholic chief of police and the Jewish rabbi promises to be an ongoing pleasure.
I hadn't realized until I started reading this that it was set in Massachusetts, which as a MA native is a plus for me.
FRIDAY THE RABBI SLEPT LATE.
(1964) Harry Kemelman.
****1/2.I came late to the discovery of Kemelman’s novels featuring the exploits of Rabbi David Small.
This was the first novel in his series featuring the rabbi, and won the Edgar in its publishing year for “Best First Novel.” This is one terrific series – many of which I have previously read.
Since I read them so long ago, I had forgotten most of the details of Kemelman’s techniques, but was pleased to rediscover them.
If you have not found Kemelman yet, you will be delighted.
After seeing on Bookbub that Amazon was offering this on Kindle for $1.99, I decided to purchase. What a great find! The storytelling was excellent and I learned some things about the Jewish religion. I'll definitely download the next in the series!
Rabbi David Small finds himself in a nasty situation as this book opens.
As a result, the members of his temple question whether he should be reinstated when his contract is out at the end of the high holy days in September.
Her body is dumped in the temple yard and her handbag is found the next day in poor Rabbi Small's car.
If you’re unfamiliar with the gentle, thoughtful, philosophical Rabbi Small, you’re missing a great literary friend.This is a super short read, and it's very well written.
All of the characters are people you will quickly come to appreciate, and the ending isn't necessarily one you'll see coming.
A brisk and interesting read, the mystery was less compelling then the setting. The one question I had was when exactly this was supposed to be set, I guess the 1950s? It was one of those books where everyone was vaguely likable, had their quirks, and were basically genial even though murder was involved. Kind of a like a Jewish The No. 1 Ladies' Detective Agency
This is the first in the Rabbi Small mystery series and it was charming. In the course of the book, we learn a little Talmudic law and become acquainted with what a rabbi is and does and learn differences between Judaism and other religions. A really good mystery and an extremely tolerant police chief round out this delightful book. I look forward to reading more books in this series.
The thinking man detective has been the staple of Mr. Kemelman's style in the short story.
While working on a non-fiction piece, things came together where he could create a new character in the style of Wert and by adding a religious touch as so many other authors had done, he could make the old idea work for him.
So we now have Rabbi Small in a New England suburb of Boston tasked with gaining the trust of his congregation and solving a possible murder where he is the prime suspect.
Rabbi Small has always been one of my favorite characters.
The religious discussions between Rabbi Small (Jewish, obviously) and Chief Lanigan (Roman Catholic) are also a big part of the book's charm.
In fact, I enjoyed Kemelman's book Conversations with Rabbi Small for that very reason.
Published in 1964, it's somewhat dated today, but that's just another reason I like it.This is one of the two mystery series I like to read again and again, along with Joseph Hansen's Dave Brandstetter series.
I would very much recommend it to anyone who likes well-crafted mysteries with a touch of religion, and enjoys early 60's nostalgia.
Rabbi David Small leads a temple in Massachusetts outside of the big city.
He and his wife are just finishing their first year with the congregation and the board is considering whether or not to retain the rabbi.
He did manage to make a detractor in one of his judicial decisions, so when a young woman's body is found on the temple grounds with some evidence that could implicate the rabbi, things get sticky.
The local police force, including Chief Lanigan, work on finding the young woman's murderer.
Small does what he can to help, and works with the Chief on evaluating evidence more than one time.
if that poses no challenge, you do also get to learn a bit about the role of rabbis in general, and how they fit within their congregation.
funny thing is, the rabbi character is quite a scholar, which is sort of why he is mixed up in this murder business to begin with.
you could almost substitute the rabbi and his congregation with any group that has has a scholar as their go-to-guy.
imagine a research scientist in the place of the rabbi.
the story would work just as well, except that the rabbi is incredibly patient rather than anxious and frustrated at the slow progress of the investigation.
When I was a small child, my mother read this series about a Rabbi who solves mysteries using his Talmudic exegetical skills. I guess that is why I picked this book up at the library when it caught my eye. It's hardly deep reading, but it was really fun and engaging. Also, I have no idea where this particular book is in the series, and I didn't feel like I was missing anything. Fun read.
#1 in the Rabbi Small series. "1965 Edgar Award for Best First Novel; Finalist 1965 Gold Dagger Award " Auspicious start to a wonderful series.Rabbi Small mystery - A young woman's body is left on the grounds of the temple and the renewal of the rabbi's contract is debated.
That was a fun, clean, and interesting whodunit that kept you guessing right to the end. Would like to read more in the series. It was especially interesting to learn about Jewish lifestyle and beliefs.
The first book in the Rabbi Small series. A lot of temple politics; took a while for the crime to actually occur. The usual assortment of red herrings.
I read this book a long time ago and remember liking the series. Mystery and humor. I am only adding it now because Steve had it on his list of just read books.
The writing is charming, and the relationship between the Jewish rabbi and the Catholic chief of police, as well as the relationships of the leadership in the local Jewish temple, makes a platform for some very interesting explorations of faith, culture, and ways of thinking without getting too deep.
I though the answer to the mystery was perhaps a bit obvious (I figured out the solution somewhere between 50 and 75 percent of the way through the novel), and then the solution is quickly figured out and presented right at the end in a bit of an anticlimax.
But the characters, relationships, conversations, and prose quality make up for the less-than-baffling whodunit, and I plan to read the sequels.
I thoroughly enjoyed this cozy mystery featuring Rabbi David Small of the imaginary Yankee town of Barnard's Crossing.
When the body of a murdered girl is found in the parking lot of the synagogue, suspicion falls on the rabbi, and he noses around trying to ferret out the killer.I had never heard of this series before - this was published in 1964, but it holds up well.
I learned a lot about the Jewish religion and the function of rabbis.
I enjoyed the friendship that forms between the rabbi and the police chief, and the myriad characters of the small town.
Rabbi David Small is in his first year as rabbi in a temple in Massachusetts during the 1950's or 60's.
His congregation is not sure about renewing his contract as he is rather scholarly and rumpled and does not give the polished appearance that some of them expect.
Then a young woman is found murdered outside of the temple parking lot and the rabbi becomes a suspect for a time.
This evolves into a relationship between the Gentile Police Chief and Rabbi Small that I hope carries over to other books in the series.
There are some dark moments and some very keen insights into Judaism.
Although this book is over 50 years old it doesn't seem too dated. There are certain elements, like a pregnant woman smoking and phone booths, that are unusual but human nature doesn't change that much. I appreciated this story more for its interactions and Jewish thought than for its mystery. Rabbi Small is both scholarly and pragmatic and Police Chief Lanigan is open-minded and inquisitive. I want to learn more about them and Barnard's Crossing so I am looking forward to continuing this series.
This was a delightful surprise. Rabbi Small is more orthodox than what his parishioners want, but very likable in his demeanor and very ethically in interpersonal relations. In a murder investigation, the rabbi becomes a prime suspect. The chief detective learns to appreciate the rabbi's deductive reasoning.
This series was recommended to me years ago ... I'm glad I finally got around to it ... very pleasant in an Agatha Christie sort of way ... and, no, I did not guess who the murderer was ... for some reason, Goodreads.com has me reading this for a second time ... nope, first time!! But will definitely read more of this series ... good for this summer
The first in a series of mysteries with Rabbi Small as the lead character. First published in 1964, this book is an interesting read that takes you back to the 1960's to a small town in Massachusetts called Barnard's Crossing. Early one morning, the body of a young girl is found on the Temple grounds. The Rabbi becomes a suspect in the murder. While maintaining the suspect status, Rabbi Small begins to help the police solve the crime. Mixed into the mystery is the prejudice of the towns people. I will enjoy reading more of the series.
Very fun! a great read!
Very nice find on my library's RBdigital app audiobook. I was searching through books narrated by George Guidall and discovered the "Rabbi David Small" series written by Harry Kemelman written in 1964. I enjoyed Rabbi Small's honesty, open-minded thinking, and even his curiosity. The mystery was well thought out in my opinion so that the reader wouldn't be able to guess the killer too soon. It was very "clean" in that there wasn't unnecessary cussing and violence which I tend to tire of quickly. I look forward to reading more.
Slight but entertaining. Will probably return to the series at some point.
This is definitely more of a mystery in the Poirot/Miss Marple genre than a thriller but the character development is excellent and I am looking forward to more stories about Rabbi Small. What makes this book unique is the way the author weaves Jewish religious practice and culture into the story in an always interesting way.
Two and a half stars for what is almost a "period novel" when read from today's perspective.
Rock and roll was "that crazy music kids like today." Husbands bought the family car, and usually drove it too.
(One of the first scenes in the book deals with the fact that a woman is not expected to drive herself around.) Wow.However,that's not why I give 2.5 stars.
Kemelman's editor (probably realising that there would be a limited appeal for that sort of novel in the sixties) suggested that he "add some exciting elements" drawn from his experience writing short detective stories for Ellery Queen's Mystery Magazine.
I am not entirely sure that nostalgia didn't influence my rating, having read this series during my gap year, but I really enjoy the way this author uses a classic mystery novel to inform the reader of the Jewish theology.
