https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/11915.Broken
This is how eventually they end up back in Toronto dealing with an interdimentional portal back to Jack the Ripper time London, which is spewing killer zombie rats, infection riddled zombies, and all types of old time diseases.
It is a fun addition to the series, but I am a bit disappointed that all of our beloved wolves and necromancer turned blind and stupid all at once, because the readers figured out who and what the killer was waaaaaay before they did.
However, the series is still fun😀!Now I wish you all Happy Reading and many more wonderful books to come!
I kind of missed Stonehaven, but the dirty, gritty feel worked well.The book focuses mainly on Elaine's pregnancy, how overprotective Jeremy and Clay are about it, and her personal fears about changing and endangering the child.
Some of it got a little tiresome, but overall I liked the overprotective wolves and thought it cute.
She's one of my top favorites and I love her crush on Jeremy.
I definitely wouldn't keep crushing on someone like that without some reciprocity by now.
Villains worked - I kind of saw the hidden twist but guessing in advance didn't deter from the story-line.
I developed no interest in Elena or Clay.
Not here.These are some of the most boring werewolves ever.
The portal and the Jack the Ripper angle sounded like fun at first, but then devolved into a zombie hunt that lacked tension.
After 250 pages I was hoping for Clay to fall deadly ill from his infection or to start changing into a zombie, just so something interesting would happen.I can’t believe I liked some of the books of this series so much and others just dragged.
Maybe if the book had been a hundred pages less, it would have had more momentum.
The case itself is convoluted, there is a lot of running around and reuniting with various familiar characters from other Otherworld book for no other reason than to help fill the pages because they obviously add very little to the investigation.
Two zombies who can be killed with no efforts and the main guy (whom I will not name) who wants to get to Elena for some stupid reason.
I still love the characters, the old ones (Elena, Clay, Jeremy, Jaime, Antonio and Nick) and the new ones (Zoe Takano).
But I just expected Elena's and Clay's novel to be much better.
Strike that, I read Armstrong for the Werewolf men of her Otherworld, not the women.I’ll admit that I shamelessly passed over Dime Store Magic,Industrial Magic and Haunted to get right down to business with Broken.
I thought for sure, that because this book contained a majority of my most favorite Armstrong characters, that I would love Broken but no such luck.
Perhaps writing so many non-Pack focused books prior to writing Broken caused Armstrong to lose sight of what made her books so special in the first place, her werewolf lore.
I’d heard this was another Elena book before diving in, and I admit to setting some expectations that it would also be another “werewolf” book with all the same intense feels as the first two.
If anything, I’d call this a “zombie” book – with a hybrid of Elena’s great POV and the plot structure of the Paige books.
Not a bad combination, because it made for a fun mystery read, but I’d be remiss if it didn’t admit I missed a little of that carnal component that was so strong in the first book (not just the sex, but the overall intensity between every character).
The best Urban fantasy book I have read in a while.I have been hooked with this series since book 1 and have not been able to stop reading it since then; one book right after the other, but I never was so thrilled with one of them as I am with this one right now.
It has been so long since I added a book to my "obsessions" shelf that I can't even remember which series was the last one to get in it.
Right now I don't think it is better than any of them but it's really getting there, definitely has the potential for it.
This series is becoming almost like a supernatural detective series, and it seems now we are adding a bit of history into them, the previous including the story of Lizzie Borden.
The Jack the Ripper theme does wear a bit thin, I'm not really sure where she was going with this but again, its supernatural and fantasy so who knows?
I like the fact that the book is set in the real world and isn't over complicated by being in a complex fantasy world.
I could not see where the story was going and in some ways it dragged, but not enough to stop me reading.
Here is what is not-so-awesome about this book: Speaking of characters, I would love to see them grow and change a little bit.
Not really a big deal, but when we are seeing the same characters over and over again (granted, not all books feature the same protagonist) I would love to see… I want to say character development.
I’ve read through bad urban fantasy plots when I am in love with the characters and want to see where they are headed.
*cough* Charlaine Harris *cough* And of course so many urban fantasy books are dependent on awesome plots without a lot of character growth.
Elena doesn't know if she is able to actually carry a child to term, but they are going to find out because she is big and pregnant.And Clay and Jeremy are crazy careful about everything.
So when a "friendly" Houdini half-demon (reference the second book people) calls with a job that only a werewolf can do, Elena is quick to convince her pack that they can do it easily with nothing to worry about.
I mean, I know they kind of got sucked into this and such and they now have friends in the supernatural world and stuff; but I truly don't like them having to deal with other things outside of that.
realistically speaking I was warned once I was already three quarters of the way through it, but I was warned none-the-less!Broken revolves around Elena and Clay as they go through their pregnancy while fighting evil and solving mystery and generally proving, yet again, that they're in love.I love this couple.
Clay and Jeremy momentarily losing their balls didn't mind me so much because when I was pregnant my very loving and masculine husband turned into a little bitch as well.
Elena's lovely little twins born were of no interest to me because my own son leaves them long behind.Usually, I read not to escape but to experience different things than my every day life.
As with all her books I have read, this one kept me gripped throughout – I loved the characters, I enjoyed the storyline, and I cannot wait for more.In Bitten, the first book in the Women of the Otherworld series, we were introduced to Elena.
I was glad to find out Broken would not be following Eve, and that we would be returning to Elena – I would have preferred a return to Paige (I’m aware it’s an unpopular opinion, but I really do enjoy her character), but Elena was still a better option than Eve.In all honesty, Broken worked to remind me just how much I enjoyed Elena.
I won't lie; as much as I fangirl over Kelley Armstrong, Elena, Clay, and the whole werewolf world...
I skipped from Stolen to Broken (shamefully, I wish I'd had enough patience to read the three in-betweens first) and just felt like Armstrong had lost her touch to the werewolf world.
I crave the werewolf world because Armstrong has such a tight grip on it.
I think it's partly also my fault that I felt so disconnected because I skipped the three other books.
Elena is now pregnant and it cracked me up to see Clay and Jeremy mother-hening her around.
Plus I loved seeing Elena still be a badass while she is super pregnant.I loved seeing characters returning and meeting new characters.
As usual I love watching Jaime get all flustered around Jeremy.The mystery in this book was decent - not the best but definitely brought some new things to the table.
I did figure it out relatively early but I kept second guessing myself.Anyway I think most people who've enjoyed this series will like this installment too!
Clay and Elena still have their amazing connection but are cautious with steamy things due to her pregnancy.
Broken4 StarsWhen Elena Michaels is asked to pay back a favor, little does she know that she is about to unleash one of the most vile murderers of all time onto an unsuspecting world.
Tasked with stealing Jack the Ripper's "From Hell" letter, Elena accidentally triggers a dimensional portal that enables zombies, plagues and even the notorious killer to appear in modern day Toronto.
In terms of the romance, Elena and Clay's relationship has improved drastically.
In contrast to the childish, squabbling pair in the first two books of the series, they have finally become a cohesive unit.
In the previous novel of this series, Haunted, there were a couple of chapters that felt like filler that left characters going in circles and avoided furthering the plot in any meaningful way.
I think the success of the series may have led to the publisher pushing a page count that she couldn't quite meet without filler.So, to sum up...the story is very good.
The concepts and imagery are great.
What could have been a 5 star novel gets about a 3.75 from me.I still love the series.
Sigh. I was so excited that we were going back to Elena's point of view. I loved the first 2 Elena books. This one not so much. The plot drags and there were too many "convenient" moments. I still like the characters but I found a lot of the choices they made in the book to be less than intelligent. The whole series feels very draggy to me. I'm not sure if I'll be continuing with it.
Elena and Clay are back! In this installment of the Women of the Otherworld series Kelley Armstrong brings us back for a visit with Elena and Clay. Only now Elena is pregnant, pregnant and stir crazy with a couple of over protective werewolves watching over her, so when the opportunity for a "safe" adventure comes long she grabs it. Of course nothing is ever simple, and Elena's "safe" adventure leads to Jack the Ripper being unleashed on the streets once more, with the added bonus of his zombie
Of course nothing is ever simple, and Elena's "safe" adventure leads to Jack the Ripper being unleashed on the streets once more, with the added bonus of his zombie sidekicks.I don't know what it is about Jack the Ripper, but add him to a story and it always makes it that little bit more exciting, it seems to add an extra dose of mystery and intrigue and gore.
It definitely added an edge of frustrated excitement to the book.Another great book in the Women of the Otherworld series, I can't believe I waited so long to read them.
About 50% of the time I also love the plot.
The other 50% of the time .
But did I like The Most Dangerous Game the first time I read it?
Do I like variations on Jack the Ripper?
What's to like?
And why do children always seem to be the targets?
I don't like it, but I accept it.
But that doesn't mean you need to target kids.
It just doesn't.So even though I love Clay and Elena, and even though I think it's hilarious to see Jamie so flustered by Jeremy, did I really enjoy Broken?
Hm. My least favourite instalment of the series so far. For some reason I failed to drum up enthusiasm for this one, the plot line just didn't grip me and seemed unnecessarily drawn out with lots of unneeded descriptions of the pack's everyday motions bulking the story out. The ending made me smile though. :)I'm sure the next novel will be up to Kelley's normal awesomeness though.
I'm impressed by Kelley Armstrong's ability to change her style of writing to match the character she is writing through.
I think it may be because I don't like Elena's character as much as the other Women of the Otherworld.
(how can a woman's husband not only feel but see their baby kick before the mother feels it?)There was a new character introduced who I liked a lot, I hope she appears in other books.I do wish Jamie and Jeremy would hook up already.
least favouritebring back paige
But I was excited to get another story about Elena and Clay.
The GoodWe finally get another book with Elena and Clay.
I loved them in Bitten and Stolen, which are the best books in the series so far.
Clay and Jeremy both are nervous wrecks over the pregnancy, which I loved.
I love to be scared and be able to laugh at the same time when I read a book.
I think Elena and Clay are in a great place.
Read this book for the characters we have come to love.
We've only seen sporadic glimpses of our favorite werewolf over the course of the last few books.
When Elena, Clay and Jeremy get ahold of the letter, they inadvertently open a portal, releasing 19th century zombies into Toronto.
It's not exactly the quiet pregnancy Clay and Jeremy had wanted for her, but they can't ignore what's happening.Jamie the necromancer is back to help them with their cause.
As always, I love Clay and it's nice that he is finally getting closer to the relationship with Elena that he's always wanted.
This is probably my least favorite of the Elena books, but it's still a solid installment.
Jack the Ripper is one of those fascinatingly macabre bits of history that tends to pull in an audience that might have otherwise passed over a book or movie.
Elena's pregnancy was believably written, with some interesting werewolfish side effects.The pacing of Armstrong's writing continues to be problematic for me.
Not only that, but I had questions throughout the book about characters that appeared and vanished, the letter that was so important and then became a non-issue, and on, and on.
It did not increase suspense so much as increase my desire to reach through the pages of the book and slap the supposedly intelligent characters across the face.
So, along comes what seems a simple easy case to take the edge off, but with all things supernatural nothing is easy Elena had me screaming at her to "just let it go, take care of the babes !" She didn't, it got bad, people died, other people got hurt, people I liked and some I wanted to hurt myself.This story outside of the preganacy is all about magic the dead, the rotten and the smell, ick, ick, ick, there is so much talk of the nasty smell I was holding my breath along with them.
The whole magical side of the story was not as interesting as the relationship between Elena and Clay they have come so far.
I was fairly disappointed with this installment in the Otherworld series; I missed the action and excitement that usually seems to follow Elena.
The absence of Clay's sarcastic dialogue (with whomever was annoying him), and his frequent temper tantrums had me forgetting that he was a constant presence; I didn't think Armstrong would be able to make him so normal and boring.
I think I could have put my above grips aside, if I had enjoyed the plot.
I felt like there was a lot to do about nothing in Broken...a lot of running around in circles, all for a rather disappointing conclusion.
As I continued reading this really marvelous series, I found myself loving this couple more and more.I have to admit that the plot was not as exciting as some of the other books - all the zombies, Jack the Ripper.....what made it an enjoyable read was the secondary characters......Jaime Vegas (totally awesome), Jeremy the Pack Alpha (totally fascinating), and more of those wacky witches, demons, mutts, Cabals....ooh I am so into this series.And am thrilled that Elena & Clay will soon have mini werewolves of their own!!!!!!
What I love about Elena is that, even pregnant, she's still kick-ass...strong, relentless...because after all...she ain't sick..she's just pregnant!!!!!!!!
I really enjoy this series and am glad to get back to the werewolves. This one finds Elena very pregnant. The pack is approached to retrieve a document. It turns out that this document is the infamous 'From Hell' letter believed to be written by Jack the Ripper. Events conspire so that the pack is left to deal with not only Jack, but also unkillable zombies, a vampire, a sorcerer, and a few other wee beasties that are best left for the reader to discover. Just some light Halloween reading. :)
Quasiment un 5/5.Certes l'intrigue est peut-être quelque peu moins "prenante" que dans d'autres tomes, mais le travail sur les personnages est vraiment superbe.J'ai particulièrement aimé le rôle de Jaime et l'apparition de Zoé la vampire.Quel plaisir, également, de retrouver notre meute de loup, et une Elena quelque peu "gênée" par son tout nouveau corps !!! Bref : ça se lit, ça se dévore, et ça donne envie de lire la suite.Mmme Armstrong est définitivement une des auteures phare d'ubran fantasy !!!
