https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/336734.Living_in_the_Light
If I had read this book even one year earlier, I'm sure I wouldn't have fully gotten it. Something would have resonated but not really sunk in. Books like this, you have to be ready for but when you are ready it is very enlightening just like The Power of Now by Eckhart Tolle. For me, he was the precursor that allowed me to fully understand this book eventhough the concepts are pretty simple and i'm sure reflected in other book like The Secret or Deepak Chopra's work. I'm getting to those soon.
Shannon recommended this book to me and I am so grateful. It's been on the shelf for awhile, and only recently I had the urge to pull it down and delve in-and oh how synchronistic because it's exactly what I needed to hear RIGHT NOW. Don't you love how books work like that? The right ones seem to come at just the right moment, with just the right message and information. Thanks Shannon!

Like me, Gawain has lived and learned since the first edition, and she has added some of this experience and its lessons to the still true and relevant information from before.
Gawain helps remind us to let go of the everyday stresses and turn to the higher viewpoint, the overall pattern of our lives -- which I can tell you is a lot easier to see the older you get.
A lot of books claim to be able to "change your life," but this one helps you see how to do that for yourself.
A life changing book that I have read and re-read over the years. One of those books that like a bible by one's side. Thanks Shakti!
I have read a number of books in this vein and know what entails a good read.
Just be.But you don't need to read this book in order to get that insight.
You just got it from reading my review of the book.If you are interested in learning about the author herself, this book may be a good read as it explains quite a bit of her background and her spiritual growth.
But it's overall a very general book, which offers no real answers other than "follow your intuition." And I feel that a book which purports to discuss "planetary transformation" ought to offer something more than that one insight.(This review originally appeared on Amazon.)
تا آخر نخوندم چرند بود - توی فاز مدتیشن و یوگا و این جور مزخرفات نیستم
I love Shakti Gawain's writing and many of her other books are on my favorite book list.
But this particular book missed the mark for me.
My copy was published in 1986, and I know she has made some huge leaps and bounds since then, which is reflected in her later publications.
This book pulls on the worst aspect of the "Science of Mind" movement, like you can tell how "sick and unbalanced" someone is by the shape of their body (overweight = unresolved issues).
Because as far as writing about intuition, I think she is right on the money.
I too read the first edition over 25 years ago, when it was first published.
It started with that first edition.
Ditto: this book is indeed a treasure of thoughts and meditations to focus our awareness on love, peace, and joyful living, no matter what issue, situation or obstacle crosses your life path.
We can choose to see all life from a different point of view, a fresh perspective or new perception.
There is no hidden meaning only the meaning we choose to place upon it - "It is What it is." Sending Love and LightSaquina AkanniThe Prosperity Doctor
This book helped me in a time of great change in my life.
Actually, a five year change brought on by the loss of a family business and financial challenges.
"Living in the Light" gave me insight from the first chapter, which stated, "We must learn a way of life that is very different from the way we approached things before.
This may not be easy for us, and it will take time, commitment, and courage.
It will not be accomplished overnight; in fact, it is a lifelong process." I recommend this book to all who have endured major life shifts.It can help you live in the light.
I first read this book in 2006, after moving into my first apartment after college and truly living independently for the first time.
I share many of the beliefs that Gawain outlines in the book, and loved her stories and case studies surrounding them.
I didn't finish back then, and had since abandoned most of my spiritual beliefs.
It spoke to me louder than it did before, likely because my life was in need of some spiritual balance.
I'm so glad I read the final chapters.
Gawain does an excellent job of suggesting how to apply the beliefs to everyday life.
This book is truly transformative.
My mom gave it to me for my 25th birthday, and it sat on my bookshelf until recently.
I'm so grateful to her for knowing that I would be ready for the lessons in this book eventually.
"Living in the Light" is practical and inspiring guide to changing your belief system by following your intuition and learning how to be true to yourself.
I'm sure this is a book that I will be going back to time and again.
Even if you're skeptical about self-help books or New Age philosophies, give this one a chance.
It could change your life.
Shakti's followup to Creative Visualization. This book contains guided meditation exercises. A group of friends used to meet every week in Westport and meditation together using this book as a guide. Oh, the 90s.
What a beautiful book. It will be a continually read book as I practice the teachings of Gawain. I have also picked up the accompanying workbook to drive home the lessons.I would recommend to anyone exploring their spirituality.
Another book that shifted my perspective when I was 21 years old. It's basically about going with the flow and on of the best books illustrating that in different areas of life. More required reading.
A gem that you can go back to time and time again.
I read this book several times during a period of my life of great spiritual growth. I found great insights in it and it was one of my absolute favorites!
Brilliantly done, words to live by and resonating with that which we inherently know to be true
This book jumped off the shelf into my hands... and changed my life. Literally shook up how I look at the world.
amazing book. really answered all my questions in a very simple way.
I read this after her book Creative Visualization - sometime in the late 1980's or early 1990's. I love Shakti and all she has to say. Excellent!
read this back when it came out. Another good inspirational meditative kind of book.....
A book that helped me put perspective back into me - the journey was essential and it proved to be a good guide.
I'm loving it. I advise whoever is reading this book to take the time to do the meditations.
Living in the Light was one of the first New-Age self help books I had read and for me really reaffirmed some spiritual beliefs of mine. As I had been exposed to a predominantly Christian terminology of things, this book was a refreshing insight into some of the beliefs with words which had more neutral/universal connotations. I probably wouldn't recommend this book to someone who had read many of this style, but as it is short I'm sure one would find a few key points in here.
Simple but profound! Clear but yet complicated.
I read this many years ago and loved it.
It’s helped me discover what I’ve been searching for all along - me. #intuition
I found this book to be a wonderful read full of great tips to put into practice now!
This book is filled with great wisdom and has helped to further shift my perceptions in a positive way. Loved it.
