https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/166982.Looking_for_Mr_Goodbar
”To every thing there is a season, and a time to every purpose under the heaven.” Ecclesiastes 3:1 Professor Martin Engle broke off his four year affair with his student Theresa Dunn by quoting Ecclesiastes to her. Like a lion circling a herd of gazelles probing for the weakest member he had decided she was the right one to sustain his ego. She was just coming out of her ugly duckling stage and emerging from the shadows cast by the wings of her swan like sister. She is self conscious of her body
”One of the reasons she loved him was that she’d understood since she first heard him talk that all those sly or hostile or outrageous thoughts that had cropped up in her mind for years and remained unsaid because they would shock or upset or alienate the people she knew would be perfectly alright with him.”Martin’s charm does have more than a few cracks in the veneer.”Theresa has asked him after sex why he was angry with her, he’d said he always disliked women after fucking them.
This book is loosely based on the actual case of Roseann Quinn, a Catholic school teacher who picked up men in New York bars.
It gives away nothing to say it’s based on the real-life murder of Roseann Quinn, and this element makes it difficult to view the novel purely as a novel.That’s unfortunate, because as a novel this book really, really works.
What’s more, in Judith Rossner’s obituary I found this 1990 Guardian quote: “Some of the raunchiest sex scenes ever written* lead to a despair that makes death almost inevitable, perhaps even sought.” And the Wikipedia entry for the book explains that it “became a bestseller, attracting interest because of its portrayal of the dangers of the new sexual freedoms that women were exploring.”All of this made me a little crazy.
James is a "goody-goody" and he falls madly in love with Theresa.As Theresa's life starts to spin out of control she meets the wrong man on the wrong night at the wrong bar.This is a harrowing story of a woman desperately trying to find herself in a time when everything was changing for women.
If you read the reviews that came out at the time the book was published there is a lot of victim blaming going on and I hate that!!
What I remember most about this book is how much it made me blush, and made my ears turn beet red.
This would have been no issue, except for the fact that I spent the week reading it on my commute to work on a busy train.
Each day that week I took for granted that my fellow commuters hadn't either (a)read the book or (b) watched the 70s film starring Diane Keaton.
On one of the last days that week, after I'd nearly missed my stop with the last 23 pages hanging in the balance, a lady turned to me and said smilingly: "Mmhmmm, that's a good one.
It's personal history, and a reflection on memoryA couple days ago I finished reading Jean Rhys' Good Morning Midnight.
As I read the last few pages I had vague flashbacks to this book.Luckily those flashbacks did not dovetail with Rhys' ending.But I couldn't think of the name of this novel.
Then yesterday as I walked, thinking about Rhys' book again, brought back the flashbacks, or maybe just the memory of having them the previous evening.
Also I rather doubt that I actually read the book, though I could have.
I am sure that by not living through the women's lib movement & the sexual revolution, I am missing something from this book.
However, as a person who grew up in the 80's, this book dooesn't strike me as a "precautionary tale." Rather, I really, really dislike Theresa Dunn.
Again, perhaps if I had lived during the period this novel takes place, I would have a better appreciation and understanding for Theresa's reluctance to assert her opinions and feelings.
Theresa is dissatisfied with everyone in her life and she is incapable of forming a true friendship with either a man or a woman.
The story details the awakening of a young woman raised in a repressed home.
As a child, Terry, the main character, was ill as a child and the illness, prolonged with a missed health diagnosis, heavily impacts her later life.
As an adult, Terry flees to the city and soon follows a journey of city life exploration and her own sexual awakening.
Unfortunately, for this reader, the novel did not resonate because the main character was not perceived as sympathetic.
Through the novel, it seemed Terry treated those that cared the most about her with indifference, and even with cruelty, than those that cared less for her (though, the main point of this may have been because she felt unworthy).
I think I might have liked a few pages here and there about her working in her classroom with her kids, just to fill things out a little and lend balance.
I think the famously disturbing Richard Brooks 1977 movie adaptation starring Diane Keaton attempted this, and in true Hollywood fashion turned the contrast into a bludgeon by making her a teacher of special ed students.
In this way, I think Rossner gives her protagonist a bit of an out.
Wow!!! Enough said.
For a while I had a hard time picking up this book. The beginning was difficult for me to get through, but once the story got rolling it was pretty interesting. There was even some surprisingly lovely writing. Although the ending was quite abrupt, I suppose that's understandable given what happens.
I learned that even really badly written books on nasty subjects can make the best seller lists and stay there a long time. Many people have the judgment of turnips.
I could emphasize more with Theresa than many people and even I myself would expect, her being the total opposite of me and yet...her thoughts and feelings felt so familiar and I think that's the case for many women actually (not that we are proud to admit it).
There's always a story behind everyone's story.PS: Not a big fan of the very long and detailed description of the sex-scenes, but I feel they're an important part of this book in describing Theresa's mental relationship with men and herself.PS2: Maybe surprisingly, I wouldn't really recommend this book to anyone, mainly because I'm certain it won't be a 5-star-read for most people.
I saw the movie, starring Diane Keaton long ago and it stuck with me. The book was just as dark and dreary. Is it a 1970's statement about what happens to a reluctant feminist? Or is it simply the story of one confused woman. I think it can be read either way.
In a cultural and technological sense this book has become somewhat dated, but the big difference in my reaction has more to do with the water that has passed under my bridge in the meantime.For readers who have not experienced the hopes and frustrations of the nightlife pick-up scene, it might seem that this is the story of an unfortunate encounter between two messed up people, which results in one’s death and the other’s prosecution for murder – as we learn at the outset of this book.
You can feel your brain softening and your eyes and personality growing dull and you feel like you're being naughty because most of the story is really quite simply just about sex.Written in 1975, just a few years after the beginning of the sexual revolution, and chock full of women's lib ideology, schoolteacher Theresa Dunn is the woman out searching not for love but for pure, unadulterated sex.
The story begins at the end, so right off the bad the reader knows exactly what is going to happen to Theresa, so in that sense it perhaps poses as a cautionary tale of what happens when "free love" goes wrong.
I’m haunted by this book. Good Lord! Jesus.
The novel, which came first, was based loosely on a true story of a young woman in swinging Seventies Manhattan who took home one stranger too many from a pick- up bar and didn’t survive the night to tell about.
It was a shocking story for mainstream literature, particularly the lurid sexual details.
And, ultimately, becoming hard and harsh rather than soft and innocent.On another level, the novel is not just about Theresa, but an indictment of a loose empty soulless life.
This book was a hit because of the timing of its release and the harsh light it cast on where the sexual revolution had taken some, the excesses if you will.
[...] Looking for Mr. Goodbar is so good a read, so stunningly commercial as a novel, that it runs the risk of being consigned to artistic oblivion.
The sureness of Judith Rossner's writing and her almost flawless sense of timing create a complex and chilling portrait of a woman's descent into hell that gives this book considerable literary merit.http://www.nytimes.com/books/97/10/19...This dismal tale is told in the context of the destructive and joyless hedonism of New York in the 1960’s and epitomized by the dialogue, which is studded with four-letter words.
The author is more interested in portraying the particulars of a time and place and in raising questions than she is about providing answers.http://www.enotes.com/looking-goodbar...
While "like" or "love" may not be the correct verbs to describe my feelings about this book, I will say that it was so powerful that it left me in kind of a stupor for almost a week after I finished it. I then passed it on to my boyfriend, who had the same reaction. It's so deeply psychological, it manages to bore into your unsuspecting mind and emotions, and once it's there, it's hard to shake.
One of my favourite books and I want to read again. Going to see if I can find it on my shelves.
But in Judith’s Rossner’s clear-cut and unsettling novel, Looking for Mr. Goodbar, sex-for its characters (especially Theresa Dunn and those whom she picks up)-is the trophy/reward par excellance.
It’s all backwards, a byproduct of the sixties and of the warped sexual revolution, for freedom without boundaries only begs for trouble.I vacillated between liking this novel and then wanting to toss it aside due to the total frustrating roller coaster emotionalism of the protagonist.
But the medicine she chooses, sex, (like any drug) only makes her life tailspin downward.
I am speeding through this one, and 2/3s in, it is getting 5 stars.
I like the close character study and psychological character insights in this novel.
at least the paperback I am reading.
It is utterly chilling in so many ways, and it is even more painful reading it now after time has passed and things aren't much different for many "Theresas" out there that I've known...
for the next man who will make it ok, while most of the men simply use them (and eventually the Theresas learn to play that game, too, to their own detriment).
This novel rips my heart out...
Beginning section describing the murder from the cowboy's POV is totally unnecessary and seems like a cinematic embellishment. I almost stopped reading. But as the story progresses, I realize it is part of this 70s/80s genre of attempting-to-be-liberated women that in the end gets punished for this new found sexual freedom (the worst in this case = death.) Think Erica Jong, Judy Bloom's Women, etc.
Starts with Gary White's confession to violently assaulting and murdering Theresa Dunn in her New York apartment. Then goes back over Theresa's life and the experiences that brought her to bring Gary White back to her apartment. I didn't particularly like Theresa as a character, however towards the end you are hoping she and James will work things out, while knowing that can't happen.
okay, saying i ''loved'' this book is not quite right--but i have to say it's brilliantly written. it's a perfect representation of the dark side of the sexual revolution of the '60's and '70's yet still rings true as a representation of the insecurities that still haunt women.
This book was so shocking when I read it long ago. But, it was so compelling that everyone I knew was talking about it for months and months. And, even now, it's still part of our lexicon. In one way or the other, it changed most readers views.
Theresa Dunn , twentyseven, single, living in Manhattan, not looking for love, but for herself in all the wrong places. Her poor relationships with men and women doom her.
I remember reading this book years ago when I was a bit too young for it (13 lol) and it has stuck with me in a way. How sad her life was and the shocking ending. Classic.
I have tried (and largely failed) to find an interview with Judith Rossner about what she was trying to convey with this novel -- if she was trying to "kill feminism," because that criticism has been lobbed at this novel before -- but in the absence of a clear-cut answer either way, I think that Rossner was highlighting second wave feminism's shortcomings, rather than trying excoriate the entire movement.I think the point here is that sexual self-discovery can only take a person so far if there isn't also some degree of emotional self-discovery that comes with it.
Rossner’s heroine, named Theresa, enjoys her independence and the sexual freedom of the times, but recoils from any real intimacy with men—and, as it turns out, with anyone else, including her family and the few coworkers with whom she is friendly.
That was what words did, really, make some kind of order out of the dark jumble of feelings and perceptions and nightmares inside you.” (p.162) Contrary to what certain reactionary readers seem to believe, Rossner makes no judgement on Theresa’s sexual behaviors; instead she makes it clear that it is Theresa’s unresolved issues with her family and her damaged concept of self that lead to her self-loathing and disconnect from others, which in turn lead to her sexual compulsivity, and, eventually, her tragic end.
