https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/333113.The_Drowning_Season
One of Hoffman's earlier works, The Drowning Season features three generations of a dysfunctional family living on an insular compound on Long Island, New York.Matriarch Esther the White has a cold heart with no room for love.
While Esther the White lives in her own world, Esther the Black would like to leave the compound when she comes of age yet she lacks the courage to leave the only world that she has known her entire life.
The fact that Rose and Esther the Black are reluctant to leave the compound speak to the strength of Esther the White's character even if this character is cold and unlikeable to most readers.I enjoy magical realism and have enjoyed Hoffman's later novels.
EXCERPT: Once, when Esther the Black was eighteen, she sat on the porch of her grandmother's house and dragged her feet in the dust until her toes were coated and dark.
The cap protected Esther's eyes, but the light was still white hot across her skin; it was the time of year they called Drowning Season, and the day would soon be too hot to sit outdoors; already the heat rose from the grass and the dust in maniac waves.
I listened to the audiobook of The Drowning Season by Alice Hoffman, narrated by Bernadette Dunne and published by Blackstone Audio, via OverDrive.
I liked this book but didn't love it.
Full of selfish characters and found that I didn't like a single one of them.
But I thought the story was interesting enough.
I found the characters refused to feel and engage in each others lives and when the end came none of them had anything of consequence.
They mostly lived in the past and missed out on so much in the moment.
More of a 3.5 rating for me.
I was not disappointed in Hoffman's story just not her usual 4-5 star book.
I would recommend this book after reading some of her others.
Did not enjoy this one. Seemed contrived. Am a big Hoffman fan so I had high expectations.
I am a huge fan of Alice Hoffman's novels, so I have already read most of them.
Alice Hoffman is my "go to" writer for so many reasons, but first and foremost because her books are enchanting, beautiful, the perfect blend of darkness and light (although this particular Gothic tale is more dark than light, but still hopeful), and because she never disappoints.
I guess in the hands of a master like Hoffman, anything is possible.
Wow. I finally found an Alice Hoffman book I didn't like. I didn't like the characters, the story, nothing. NONE of the characters were likable or elicited sympathy. Bummer. At least it was a quick read and I didn't waste a lot of time on it.
Alice Hoffman is a poet who just happens to write novels.
I am a poet who happens to read novels.
Is it any wonder that Hoffman's books are among my favorites?
The Drowning Season is, like so many of Hoffman's works, almost a fairy tale.
The story of two women, Esther-the-Black, and her granddaughter, Esther-the-White, follows their lives through one summer, the drowning season.
As Esther-the-White struggles to find peace and love at the end of her life, we hear the story of her escaoe from Russia, to the Compound she has created on Long Island.
Who will know her, love her?This novel is smooth and magical, a terrific story told by a spellbinding teller.
I did like the characters and the story was interesting.
Her characters are always so interesting, it seems like I can usually relate to them and I did in this story as well.
The underlying story in this to me was about how people perceive us in a certain way, but they don't understand that events have shaped us to be who we are- But, I felt like the ending was in a big hurry, like the book had to be finished in a certain amount of pages and here's the end.
I have not read a book by her that I haven't loved!
Having loved several of Alice Hoffman's books, I was taken by surprise by the lack of depth and good storytelling in this novel.
A preppy kid who wants to be a punk rocker and changes his name to Pagan Rath?
Pagan?
I can't begin to count how many times I had to read the names Esther the Black and Esther the White, each time thinking they sounded ridiculous and out of place in a modern day story.
I was dumbfounded that this was written by an author that I have read and enjoyed so many times before.
I truly hated this book, to say the least.
The premise behind the book has great potential but the book did not provide enough depth
"The Drowning Season" was the second book published by Alice Hoffman, and while it foretells the greatness she will someday show, it does not yet have it.
I want to identify with the teenaged Esther the Black, but she is just too flat.
One of the main plot points revolves around Phillip, Esther's father, the son of Esther the White, who every summer tries to drown himself, this the title of the book, and has to be locked in a cottage until the impulse leaves him at the end of each Drowning Season, usually after one failed attempt.
I usually love quirky books and everything Hoffman writes, true this was written in the 70s, and she has honed her craft over the decades, but it did very little for me.
I picked the title because I live on the coast and very sadly there was another drowning out my window this week.
She is an eloquent writer, but the book was too off kilter even for me this week.
A bit of good news while reading this I received news the dog that was missing after the boating accident was found 4 days later, rescued as fire fighters trained at sea.
Fact is as good fiction in this case.
Not my favoriteThis one didn't grab me, and I usually love Alice Hoffman's writing. The disconnected people never resonated and there was nothing I could really relate to.
Loved this beautifully sad story about meanness and kindness, love and loss. Historical fiction with psychological issues.
A reminder that sometimes those closest to us are the ones we know least.
Dark. Ridiculous characters. Esther the White, Esther the Black, etc. a totally dysfunctional family with no real story line except how unhappy everyone is. Phillip just tries to drown himself once a year. I don’t see any redeeming grace is the purpose of this story.
3.5 stars ...she wanted to sit in the dark and whisper all of her fears into an ear which would hold every word like a silver shell.i have loved alice hoffman since i was little- she's a poet, in my opinion, who happens to write fantastic novels.
as the second book she ever published, i can see the hoffman i love emerging, but she's not fully developed.
i found myself despising all of these characters- they were all selfish in their own ways.
esther the white was the most selfish of them all, however.
i loved all of the characters, even while despising them.
Esther (the white), Mischa, & Max ( a dwarf) were raised as brothers & sister; but discovered that Esther actually wasn't.
Esther "sells" Max to a circus and Esther & Mischa marry & head to London.
Neither Esther or Mischa are good parents and when Phillip has a daughter, he names her Esther (the black).
All eventually live a dysfunctional life together on a compound in New York, add in a loyal gardener/security guard (Cohen) who secretly loves Esther the White, Rose, Phillip's wife, Max's wife, and a fishing community who is at odds over the right's of the harbor.
I am really enjoying discovering this author, that was recommended a couple years ago to me.
As always, I need to start at the beginning of what they have written and I'm really glad that I did.
From reading some of the other reviews, I think if you have read her more current stuff, then try to go back to the beginning, you don't enjoy the journey as much.
I thoroughly enjoyed how Hoffman gives you a sense of the characters and how they connect to each other.
feelings.
Very nice journey discovering Esther the White and Esther the Black.
Since I've suffer severe "insomnia"...I read this wonderful piece of literary genius during the middle of the night.Alice Hoffman has written a hypnotic and mesmerizing novel with 'The Drowning Season'.
I was sorry to see this novel end!From back cover:"On a secluded waterfront estate on the North Shore of Long Island, a matriarch named Esther rules over her clan.
Her son, Phillip, routinely tries to drown himself each summer; her granddaughter sneaks cigarettes and dreams of escape.
Esther has hired Cohen, a Russian landscaper, to watch over the family as well as the grounds.
But Cohen has been watching Esther as well.
This is the story of two Esthers, Esther the White who is grandmother to Esther the Black and their complicated and strained relationship, especially with Phillip, Esther the White's son and Esther the Black's father, who has a compulsion to drown himself.
The "drowning season" in the title refers to the summer months when Phillip's compulsion is particularly strong and he annually attempts to give himself to the sea.
When Phillip finally succeeds in his quest to drown himself, the two estranged Esthers are forced to come to terms with each other.
Seems as if there were many unresolved issues left hanging at the end of this book. The story was rather flat and predictable. Didn't care much for this one - and I had high hopes coming from this author.
An early Hoffman novel. It lacks her signature magic realism, but does contain moments of enchantment and a fairy tale sensibility.
It's one of Hoffman's earlier books, and it shows. It's solid, but not captivating in the way her later works are.
Somewhat different from Hoffman's usual.
The first Alice Hoffman book I have read that I didn't care for.
She lives there with her husband, Mischa; her brother in law, Max, a dwarf; her son, Phillip, who is suicidal and tries to drown himself every summer (hence, the title of this book); Phillip's drunk wife, Rose; their daughter, Esther the Black, named for her short dark hair, and her grandmother's namesake; and Cohen, a landscape artist hired by Esther the White to care for the compound, watch over Phillip, and look after the entire family.
The last chapter of this book painfully summed up life for me.
We spend our lives listening, cooperating and following the directions.
Oftentimes, losing ourselves, or even worse, never stepping out of line long enough to ever know ourselves.
Suddenly, we find ourselves in the home stretch, alone and wishing we had someone, anyone, who knew us, knew our hearts, or even cared to know.
Yep, life is short.
Too short.
One day you are 40 yrs old, and next thing you know you wake up to find 20 yrs, gone, in the blink of an eye you are 60.
I always enjoy Alice Hoffman's writing, she is a beautiful writer with creative and moving stories.
But I felt this book fell a little short.
Mostly because there were aspects of the plot and characters that I expected to be explored further and which really needed to be to develop a richer, more compelling story.
Overall, the book felt rushed, the characters seem to evolve unnaturally and too quickly at the end, it felt like Hoffman was impatient to get to the end, resolve the story line, and move on.
So this book was a little disappointing, but still a good book I would recommend anyone to read.
So, Hoffman has always been one of my "read everything she writes list" and I was excited to read this book just from the title.
It was well worth it.
Esther the Black and Esther the White!
Wow!
Their stories, the father who ____________________, well, I won't say due to spoilers, but man, oh, man, was this story good.
At first I grew to dislike Esther the Black but as her story was drawn out I began to understand more and more, and my dislike turned to empathy and compassion, and as for Esther the White...I can relate in so many ways.
I sincerely loved the book.
