https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/210784.McSorley_s_Wonderful_Saloon
A friend of a friend worked as a fact-checker at the New Yorker where he went every day to write, although his was probably the most debilitating case of writer's block ever: decades without publishing a word after Joe Gould's Secret, my favourite work by JM.
I had found a copy of McSorley's in a used bookstore in the mid-80s and snapped it up only because I knew his name from a mention in a Liebling bio.
(Liebling had been my first real New Yorker hero.
Joseph Mitchell’s McSorley’s Wonderful Saloon is a world of a book – a lost world, you might say.
It’s a collection of New Yorker pieces that Mitchell wrote mostly in the late 1930s and 1940s.
These typically involve Mitchell hanging about at grimy old New York City bars or visiting peoples’ homes and listening to them talk.
Mitchell’s writing is clipped and dry and masculine.
Reading McSorley’s Wonderful Saloon, you feel like you’re watching a magician summon up within the scope of a ten-inch crystal ball all the variety and glory and pathos of the human condition in exquisite and particular detail – but no sooner are you offered the astonishing, keen vision of it than the inky black smothers it up.
It’s a collection of pieces that Joseph Mitchell wrote about odd New Yorkers he ran across in his work as a journalist during the thirties, forties, fifties, and sixties.
Mitchell interviewed a down-and-out fellow back in the thirties who claimed to be writing an enormous book, compiled in many volumes, about New York that consisted solely of conversations the fellow had had with people he met.
After writing this piece, Mitchell never wrote another word for publication, though he went into work every day for many years.
This should be required reading in public schools!It's like thumbing through an incredible scrapbook full of old friends.An article written by Kelly Hogan discussing life on a tour van brought me to this (up in the old hotel) and I wish I could call her up to say "thanks"!is anyone writing like this today?
Up in the Old Hotel is the complete collection of Joseph Mitchell's New Yorker journalism and includes McSorley's Wonderful Saloon, Old Mr. Flood, The Bottom of the Harbour and Joe Gould's Secret.
I had to return Up in the Old Hotel to the library before completing the other books, so - for now - can only review McSorley's Wonderful Saloon.
Next time I visit New York I shall visit as many of the places detailed in this book as I can, if only to gaze wistfully at the spot with the vivid recollections of Joseph Mitchell's wonderful articles to imbue each location with a special and magical significance.I will be returning to Up in the Old Hotel to read the rest of these wonderful articles - I recommend you do the same.
There's the drifter called Santa Claus Smith, who begs for food and transportation and then writes fake checks on butcher paper for huge amounts of money to his benefactors, payable to a defunct bank; the man who runs a curiousity shop/dime museum out of his apartment and the bearded lady who works there after a lifetime as a traveling circus freak; a couple who moved into a cave in Central Park to wait out the Depression; a homeless man who rides the trains all day, writing a 20,000 page book of world history and philosophy; a man who makes his living by holding a yearly ball for an association he made up himself; a preacher by telephone; the man who founded the Don't Swear League; the sort of people anyone else would overlook and write off as a crazy bum.
Eventual journalist for the New Yorker who came to the city at the onset of the Great Depression catalogs his encounters (often numerous) with characters from gypsies, indians, and bearded ladies to bums, detectives and politicians that make up the always interesting New York of another era. His portraits really give insight into just how diverse the backgrounds and lives of New Yorkers are. The collection ends with depictions of his townsfolk when growing up in the swamplands of North Carolina. I want more.
Back when I was fatally depressed and anxious, people would always tell me to take a bubble bath, which infuriates me to this day.
Now that I am temporarily a normal amount depressed and anxious, taking a bubble bath does seem to help.
So I dumped a big chunk of crusted together Epsom salt in the tub, and some strident grapefruit exfoliant, and put the hot water tap to full blast.
I felt like a king in my bath.
So here I am reading and writing again, and taking baths.
“'Do you care much for clams?’“I sat down on the bucket and told him that one Sunday afternoon in August, 1937, I placed third in a clam-eating tournament at a Block Island clambake, eating eighty-four cherries. I told him that I regard this as one of the few worth-while achievements of my life” (p. 304). So writes Joseph Mitchell in his essay titled “A Mess of Clams.” Is this stylized prose? Not on your life – his prose isn’t even extraordinary. What is extraordinary is the voice of Joseph Mitc
So writes Joseph Mitchell in his essay titled “A Mess of Clams.” Is this stylized prose?
A Bellevue intern once remarked that for some mental states the smell in McSorley’s would be a lot more beneficial than psychoanalysis or sedative pills or prayer.”	The last three essays in this collection (beginning with “The Downfall of Fascism in Black Ankle County”) take us back to Mitchell’s birthplace and the fictional town of Stonewall, North Carolina.
Is it fair to call Joseph Mitchell’s prose ‘timeless’ and ‘ageless?’ I think it is.
27 New Yorker articles by Joseph Mitchell, a graceful writer.Only the first is about McSorley's - still extant which I have visited several times.The rest are about "little people and their world":A ticket taker at the Venice Movie TheatreA real bearded lady from the circus worldGypsies and their lives in NYC and the USMohawks working high steel - and their reservation lifeThe Deaf-Mutes club in NYCClam diggers from Long IslandTurtle growers in the Southetc.Fantastic!
Pure inspiration to the nonfiction writer. Pure joy to the reader. Mitchell brings old New York alive in this classic examination of nothing and everything. Just re-read for fifth time. Better with each serving.
Back in the day when NYC still had a soul, Joseph Mitchell wrote wonderful stories. I enjoyed the historical insight, especially stories from the Bowery and Village.
Actually, I've just read the first half of this 700 plus page collection of sketches, the section titled "McSorley's Wonderful Saloon", made of 27 sketches, or they could be called profiles, of characters that Mitchell met and got to know in New York City.
They are individuals who would otherwise be forgotten, as most of us will be, but brought to life by Mitchell who found interest in their stories.They're both men and women, that Mitchell met while wandering around the city, many of them found in bars, cheap hotels, and on the waterfront.

Wat een geweldig boek over de zelfkant van de samenleving in New York.
Starbucks
Joseph Mitchell, as David Remnick quotes Mitchell in Remnick's introduction, writes of and is interested in NYC's "...visionaries, obsessives, imposters, fanatics, lost souls, the end-is-near street preachers, old Gypsy kings and old Gypsy queens, and out-and-out freak shows." Mitchell's interest provides a time machine for the reader to 1939 and the immediate years that follow.
This favorite part, naturally, is a result of one turtle proprietor claiming his dock companion, a fox terrier, was 25 years old.
The fact Mitchell takes us to meet the man who would make such a claim is.
Wie man schon der Inhaltsangabe entnehmen kann, stellt Mitchell vor allem die Exoten und Sonderlinge der Gesellschaft in den Vordergrund (Zigeuner, Indianer, Taubstumme, Straßenprediger, Arbeitslose) und auch Kneipen spielen oft eine tragende Rolle.In nahezu allen Geschichten gibt es kaum Handlung, viel mehr lässt der Erzähler (zum Beispiel in einer Bar/Kneipe) einen Vertreter der entsprechenden Personengruppe zu Wort kommen und dieser erzählt dann , teilweise sehr monolog-lastig.
In der ersten Geschichte geht es um eine Kneipe mit dem Namen "McSorley’s Wonderful Saloon", die von einem irischen Einwanderer im 19.
Schade, dass es (zumindest von meinem Standpunkt aus) mit den anderen Geschichten nicht so geklappt hat.
Many of the pieces in this book first appeared in the New Yorker in the 1930s and 1940s, and it's hard to imagine writing that captures the spirit of the city at that time better.
(The shadow of Prohibition looms even larger in this book than the Depression.) The last few pieces are set in the south, but it's the New York ones that make this a classic.
The only problem is not knowing how fictionalized it was.
The library had it shelved under fiction, but at the very least the title essay seems to be entirely true, as far as I can tell.
The essays are funnier the more I can believe that they are actual people and the quotations, actual quotes from actual people.
I know David Sedaris has admitted to brushing up the truth a bit for the sake of comedy, hopefully Mitchell was only doing a little light massaging of the truth as well and not wholesale fabrication of quotes and characters like Jayson Blair or Stephen Glass.
Joe Gould and many other carefully crafted tales from the City of the American Century. New York portraits from the past, the King of the Gypsies in particular a wonderful piece. This is what we missed, and will never be able to come close to again. Freakin Guiliani!the title story holds a place in my heart for McSorley's was the birthplace of the A. Cornell finger-stache "Helloo!" routine... brilliant.
I really enjoyed these portraits of idiosyncratic New Yorkers in the late 30's to 1940. I can remember remnants of the City Mitchell describes from my youth in the 60's and 70's. However, reading these stories back to back is not terribly engaging. They were originally published in the New Yorker, so readers got them as treats probably not more frequently than monthly. This would be a great book to own and come back to from time to time.
What a craft. Mitchell wrote with a brisk, convivial style that falls easily into the background. He's full of wit without being cynical, full of fondness without being (too) sentimental. The picture he paints of an old New York City (1939 to the late 40s) is worth studying in its own right, but Mitchell is the most entertaining docent one could ask for.
Technically i haven't yet finished this book, had to return it to the library. While i really enjoyed the snippets of life in and around McSorleys, some parts of the book were quite slow, and some characters more interesting than others.
Read as part of "1940's"
The father of New Journalism. Wolfe, McPhee and Talese all acknowledged their debt to Joseph Mitchell, and this was his best book.
A collection of newspaper and magazine articles from the 30's to the 50's - Wildly varied in subject, invariably entertaining.
Delightful collection of short stories about life and characters around the lower east side and bowery of New York during the 30's and 40's.
wow. read this.
Frontloaded with great stories. Drags a little in the end. His NYC stuff is unmatched though.
