https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18079527-the-impossible-knife-of-memory
It just didn't work for me.I feel like this book sanitizes PTSD into a very clean depiction.
No, this is not a bad book, but it did not emotionally connect with me.Hailey is our main character.
For an overwhelming part of the book, I had an intense dislike of Hailey.I know that teenagers are not perfect.
Trust me, I was your stereotypical teenager myself, but that doesn't mean you would like me when you met me, and it doesn't mean that I like the character that Hailey is, within this book.
In The Impossible Knife of Memory Anderson makes sense of a messy teenage mindset while still offering a flawed yet realistic ending, rife with the seeds of a better future.I adored the romance between Hayley and Finn.
Neither of them are perfect and their relationship isn't all roses and rainbows, but in the end, the trials and tribulations make it all the more worthwhile.Highly recommended to fans of Laurie Halse Anderson and young-adult realistic or contemporary fiction, as well as those interested in a book that deals with PTSD.
But life has a way of sneaking up on you when you least expect it, and in Haley's case it's with the surprise friendship of Finn, a persistent teasing boy, and the arrival of Trish, her father's ex-girlfriend.
Young girls that Haley called 'baby-zombie-bitches' for wearing high heels in school.
This book says to judge and to not get to know people before you make unfair assumptions against them.Other characters like Gracie and Trish, who Haley hates for some unknown reason that she never fully explains, didn't interest me or make me feel emotional at all.
As students streamed out of the school it was eerily like what we'd seen the day before - and I did not handle it well as it felt like we were all waiting for gunshots to start going off.
I mean sure I read YA - but this piece of realistic fiction is a pretty good slice of life if you want to be educated.
Because what do today's kids have to survive?Social lives on the internet, cyber bullying & stalking, viral pictures, kids' sexual assault is excused of as a prank, terrorist drills at school, PTSD parents at home, and more broken families than I remember there being 15 years ago.
I won't say that the ratings were distributed evenly all the way, but it seems that quite a number were just as disappointed as I was.The Impossible Knife of Memory started off really well.
I thought I'd like Hayley, with her snarky and witty comebacks.
One day there's suddenly focus on Finn, and for an unexplained and unclear reason, he decides that he wants to be with Hayley.
Apparently, Hayley's father has PTSD.
And by neat I mean like the harshness and details were glazed over.
The characters, romance and way the author dealt with PTSD just did not sit well for me, even though many others loved this book.
Can I just say that Laurie Halse Anderson is the best? Actually, don’t answer that, because I don’t care what you think, because she just is the best and I refuse to argue that point. The Impossible Knife of Memory is my third Laurie Halse Anderson read and also my favorite. For those who are curious, the other two were Speak and Catalyst. The Impossible Knife of Memory is dark, hilarious, oh so quotable, and has a truly amazing ship.Read the full review at A Reader of Fictions.
2.5 starsObjectively, well written, but there is nothing new here. A cutesy romance mixed with family drama. Even though some of the drama is PTSD-related, still the feeling of same old, same old remains.
This is another book that I'm not sure if I liked, but know that I didn't hate.
Like with all of Laurie Halse Anderson's books, The Impossible Knife of Memory explores a tricky subject that in some hands could be easily botched.
Hayley, of course, has to go through the book to find herself, grow up, and regain her memory.
-Hayley's Dad. I know he's probably not a popular character, but I liked him and had compassion on him (more so than Hayley, I'm sorry to say.) Not knowing a whole lot about PTSD, I can't say whether or not he was an accurate portrayal.
Laurie Halse Anderson. Do I really need to say more?
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/When Hayley’s dad Andy returned from fighting overseas five years ago, he was a changed man.
This book was dark.
A particular reoccurring scene in the book led me to believe it was going to get super dark.
I am also very forgiving - especially when it comes to YA novels.
I have come to expect situations might be handled with "kid gloves" (no pun intended) compared to other novels.
Many will love this book and won’t have a problem with the ending at all, but for me?
No one should be surprised that it’s Laurie Halse Anderson tackling this troubling topic of PTSD and the repercussions of a decades’ worth of war, particularly its impact on the families of those who served.
‘The Impossible Knife of Memory’ continues Anderson’s preoccupation with writing about the very things society has yet to confront in a meaningful way, and she does it beautifully … hauntingly; More months in the hospital, then the big welcome home, dog tags turned in, army days over.
It’s beautiful and haunting, as all Laurie Halse Anderson books tend to be.
OOPS I got home from a house party at 4 AM new years after enduring a stressful travel day and a 6 hour plane ride from hell and I should've been asleep by 8 but instead I binge read this until 1 AM.
I love Laurie Halse Anderson.
Her writing style is unique & poetic and omg she has such a fantastic wit.
I want wit.
How do I obtain wit.
Hayley is so cool (blue hair um holy freaking yes) and Finn is......
It was as if Anderson knew I am weak for boys who wear eyeliner.
This is a poignant young adult story about a teenaged girl, Hayley, trying to cope with her increasingly despondent and volatile father, who is suffering from head injuries from an IED and post-traumatic stress disorder after multiple tours in Iraq and Afghanistan.
Hayley’s mother and grandmother have been dead for years and she and her father have recently returned to her childhood home after living a nomadic lifestyle while her father tried to outrun his demons.
Hayley lives in fear every day of what may be waiting for her at home after school.
Another phenomenal masterpiece by Laurie Halse Anderson. Breathtaking, moving, and gripping.
You will end up crying and not understanding what the freak is going on with you and your feelings.
I needed to hear the worldbut didn't want the world to know I was listening."  This is about Hayley Kincain.
She's a teenager who lives with her single depressed father, Andy, who is going through a tough time in his life.
Her love and caring for Andy was beautiful, and right.
Although Andy overreacted at times and wasn't who he was supposed to be, I loved him.
Some books just have romance for no reason, but the relationship between Hayley and Finn made sense and it made me squeal.
The Impossible Knife of Memory is an incredibly heavy story about a young girl who spends more time looking after her father who suffers from severe PTSD, than he spends looking after her.
Despite the absolutely tough subject, Anderson throws in this underlying sense of hope that is so strong, it helps you push through the more emotional parts of the story.And trust me, there are a lot.
Anderson knows how to wrench incredibly strong emotions out of her readers, and this book is the best i've read so far dealing with the PTSD subject.
Do young adults really talk like this?
Really?“The warped perception of time is a hallmark of trauma,” he said.
They all struggle with it.”“Oh, really?” My hand dropped to touch his.“Superheroes can be a pain in the balls,” he said.
“Always acting tough, pretending nothing hurts.”“What do you do with them?”“Most of them go to a llama farm in New Mexico to meditate and spin wool.
“You’d scare the llamas.”“You defame me, sir,” I said.
“I am a kind and gentle friend of llamas.”...And this is only one example.
There were many.Three stars, because although I didn't like it, I didn't hate it either.
4.5 stars.  "The old men take us there. A tiny hand, stained with blood and dust, pokes out of the rubble. The old men shout at us.'What are they saying?' I ask.'We got the wrong house,' the interpreter says.We blew up a house filled with children and mothers and toothless grandmothers. The insurgent house sits empty, a stone's throw away.The ancient men yell at me shake their fists.I understand every word they say."  With every single Laurie Halse Anderson book that I've read, I'm always left t
I became immersed into the characters (despite Hayley annoying me at times) and their relationships, so much so that I even shed a couple of tears when (view spoiler)[ Hayley finds her father's suicide note and goes to convince him not to kill himself.
(hide spoiler)] Even with those sad moments, I would say this book isn't as dark as Anderson's other reads.
Just like my frustration with Hayley's father, it was agonizing that he would never accept the help offered to him and continually made things worse for himself, but it added to the overall honesty and genuineness of the characters.
I confess to not liking the narrator, Hayley, at the beginning.
The kind that pushes people away, has a smart comeback for everything, and believes she doesn't need help from anyone.
Of course you need help from Finn and his falling apart car.
Finn was "adorkable" and sweet and had ambitions for the future BEYOND kissing a girl (my gosh, aren't the characters getting intelligent now days?
It was written with a lot of feeling.
Hayley, crabby stingray though she is, really worked under my skin with her detailed and prone-to-panic even though she's super-tough-girl voice.
The ending was way too happy.
Nevertheless, he insists that Haley have a "normal" life, ending their years on the road while Haley learns to navigate the zombied existence of a high school teenager.
Haley's relationship with her father is tenuous and fragile, a careful construct of one step forward just as quickly as two steps backward inevitably follow.
The Impossible Knife of Memory is a beautifully written tale of growing up and, most importantly, facing the harsh realities of life even when we need to see the world through rose-tinted glasses.
And, if you needed any more motivation to read this novel: it's written by Laurie Halse Anderson.
A tense story about a father and daughter who are both trying to deal with post traumatic stress disorder, the father from his military service, and the daughter from living with a man who struggles with demons, liquor, unstable partners, and his own inability to hold down a job and home with his child. Reading this book, I felt like I was living on the edge of a cliff, and I was terrified that no one would be able to work out a way to live--you will feel the same way.
Originally posted at Writer of WrongsI read  Speak  somewhere around the age of twelve or thirteen. You could argue I was too young for it (you'd be wrong), but it left the kind of impression on me that never goes away. It was full of pain, full of confusion, and full of smarts. It spoke to me in a way that few books ever did, and since the day I finished it, I've considered Anderson to be one of the finest writers of voice and feels around.It's been a decade or so since I first read Speak. To s
It spoke to me in a way that few books ever did, and since the day I finished it, I've considered Anderson to be one of the finest writers of voice and feels around.It's been a decade or so since I first read Speak.
Obviously I had to intervene for the good of studentkind, and all that.It clearly didn't take me long to relate to Hayley.Of course, she's not exactly like me, but she's a girl I want to know.
The Impossible Knife of Memory by Laurie Halse Anderson was not your typical teenage drama.
Its combination of teenage romance and trauma was done just right that neither aspect was done so over-the-top that it became cheesy or depressing.
I was invested in these characters and how their lives were going to play out, so much so, that I read over 150 pages in a 24 hour period.
This book definitely helped me as a teacher understand that sometimes students have a lot more going on at home than we know, and that although we can't help them all, we can try to understand them and let them know we are there.
The impossible knife of memory 3⭐Beautifully haunting.
The impossible knife of memory 3⭐️Beautifully haunting.
*Genre* Young-Adult Contemporary, Realistic Fiction*Rating* 4.0*My Thoughts*Laurie Halse Anderson is a writer who I can always count on to make me think, make me hurt, make me feel things I don't want to, and make smile like a goof ball with her patented sarcasm and humorous characters.
The Impossible Knife of Memory hits a bit close to home for me as I am also a veteran who experiences very strange side effects from PTSD.
Yes, folks, women do suffer from PTSD just like men!
zombies2.
That person is a lying zombie.
Do not listen to zombies.
I'd give this book 3.5 stars. Though it was great, sometimes the characters just pissed me off. I pretty much always love Laurie Halse Anderson's writing, though.
This is not a story to start thinking it will be a light and quick read.Short recap: Hayley has not had an easy life.
All she knows is that she has to take care of him no matter what as he is struggling with PTSD and drug & alcohol addiction.
Hayley puts everything else in her life on the backburner because how can she care for herself and her father?This was not an easy story to get through.
This felt more like a story about Andy and his daily life that Hayley was living in.
His PTSD and addictions were taking over his daily life, which was a bit frustrating to read.
Rated YA-5.If you've never read a Laurie Halse Anderson book before (if that's possible), this is as good as any at showing you what LHA does best when she writes YA books.
She tackles social ills (in this case, post-traumatic stress disorder), places it in a familiar setting (in this case, high school), and still plays narrative aces (in this case, a great read).
A cover, of course.The narrative arc is complicated by Dad's old girlfriend, an alcoholic who re-enters the picture and reignites Hayley's ire.
Thanks to Dad, for instance, Hayley knows her history.
It's gritty, relevant, heartbreaking and life-affirming.This is a story of broken people and broken families - and yet is full of love, compassion and hope, but without a whiff of sentimentality.I appreciated that while Hayley is a strong, smart girl, she's still very much a teenager and she reacts and behaves in ways that feel true to her experiences and age.The fractured relationship with her father is wrenching and, at times, frightening.
I'm grateful to Laurie Halse Anderson for not taking us there.And I liked that, as we learn more about all the characters, we see they're all a little broken in their own ways - which makes their courage and capacity to love all that more moving.
Anderson’s writing is poetic yet so daringly outspoken that you can’t help but stop and listen.Anderson is famous (or infamous) for tackling varying degrees of heavy subjects.
Daughter of Andy Kincain.
Homeschool-ed, truck-driving, cross-country traveling, socially-inept yet bad ass Hayley Kincain.
She and her father move into his childhood home, where she spent her early years living with Gramma.
After her death, Hayley spent the next years criss-crossing the country as map navigator to her truck-driving father.
Begging him to get help.
Anderson maneuvers her readers through scenes of violence and affection between father and daughter, each meaning to tighten the bond between reader and character and it works.
