https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/16897.The_Portable_Thoreau
I had, of course, heard of him, but I never had the desire to read what I perceived would be a long, dull book about the woods.
I think he might even agree with me that you can’t be transformed by merely reading about Nature, but you have to actually go out and experience it for yourself.One of my favorite pieces was "Walking".
His idea of a walk is no doubt a far cry from what we think of walking as today: "If you are ready to leave father and mother, and brother and sister, and wife and child and friends, and never see them again – if you have paid your debts, and made your will, and settled all your affairs, and are a free man – then you are ready for a walk.
Many of course will choose not to read it but for those who do, and make it through the slog that is the first chapter, Thoreau's timeless classic offers much wisdom on thoughtful living.
Why thoughtful living?
Because Walden is full of what of what buddhists refer to as the fire of attention.
Each chapter, even the dreadful first, Economy, is full of an intense attention to detail both philosophical and practical.
At the very least, readers of Walden in any age will be encouraged to forgo the way of the lemming and instead give a little thought to each step taken in life, as opposed to just mindlessly stumbling off the proverbial cliff of life.
Brilliant. Favorite sections include "Sounds" "Solitude" and Brute Neighbors (all from Walden. The conclusion is great too), as well as Civil Disobedience, and A Winter WalkAnarchist, Naturalist, Individualist. A gem.
Early on he recognized and pointed out the corruption that was, and still, in the hearts of some elected officials, and the morality of and in revolution which this country was founded on,“All men recognize the right of revolution; that is, the right to refuse allegiance to, and to resist, the government when its tyranny or its inefficiency are great and unendurable.”If you’re looking for a book that was foundational in its day and still as revolutionary a hundred and seventy something years later, pick this up and give it a read.
Walden by Henry David Thoreau, unlike other works of this magnitude, is also not written so as that it confounds understanding to those whom would read this as template to their own love ode of nature.
And while this fascination has its original roots in Emerson’s essays and Whitman’s poetry, it was upon reading Thoreau that I really began to feel I found a kindred spirit.Thoreau was one of the greatest thinkers to ever live, and as such it’s not really possible to do a goodreads-style review of his work, so that’s not something I’ll attempt.
Not only does it contain the full version of Walden and Resistance to Civil Government, but also some of Thoreau’s other landmark essays (Walking, Life Without Principle), and snippets of some of his less famous books.
5 stars for the writings of Thoreau; 1 star for the Carl Bode 1947 edition.
I've owned this book for several years and have read bits of Thoreau, but decided I would make an effort to read his writings fully and attentively.
I started with Walden last fall, and picked this up again to work through the rest of his books and essays.
I will find myself reading and re-reading his words for the rest of my life.
Carl Bode is one of those out-dated amateur psychoanalysts who find Freudian sexual syndromes everywhere he looks.
His commentary about Thoreau's biography and writings seem off the mark.
Oh my gosh, I finished it. Finally. Definitely not the kind of book that you can’t put down, but a good one all the same. I love Thoreau’s imagery and descriptions, all the naturalism is wonderfully soothing and relaxing at night (which is when I read this). I skipped ‘Civil Disobedience’ because it was so political and I couldn’t stand it, but I loved most everything else, Natural History of Massachusetts and Walden especially.
I think rereading Thoreau as an adult was certainly worth it, as I found so much more meaning in it and connected to it on a completely different level. I would definitely recommend people revisit his texts.
On our way there we saw people out in their gardens, a couple cars going by, and realizing that Thoreau really did not go out into too much wilderness when he was living at Walden Pond.
However, reading Thoreau as a modern philosopher of self reliance makes me forgive him somewhat for his lack of going into serious wilderness (I think this is a strongly West Coast view of things).
Overall, a very literary souvenir of a literary trip in the middle of July, experiencing early work of modern American naturalism.
This was a very difficult book for me to read as there was too much going on.
It always felt like he was rambling and would never stick to one topic.
There were some interesting parts in this book.
I particularly liked aspects of "Civil Disobedience," the chapter in Walden on reading was riveting, and his "Life Without Principles," had some interesting thoughts.
And, too be fair, I read through this rather quickly.
But, this is a book only for philosophers and Thoreau/Transcendentalist scholars.
Average readers should stick with "Civil Disobedience" and Walden.
Reading Thoreau has been on my Bucket List for a very long time. My daughter gave me this copy that includes several key pieces of his work which at times soothe the soul and at other points stir the soul.
Just found out from my uncle (who lurks on my Goodreads page, which I always forget; I get all startled when he brings up something that I'm reading) that a girl on Girls is reading Thoreau and trying to write a book of essays.
Trying to convince her mom to give her money: I think I might be the voice of a generation!
well A voice of a generation...
too close to home.
Plus reading him and Kierkegaard at once is waaaay too much stern lonely man philosophy for a lonely girl really hoping all the stern stuff is B.S.
I was first inspired to read this after seeing "Into the wild" The Chris McCandless story. I was intimidated by this at first due its its vast concept and articulateness however, it fulfilled my expectation. Not only did I understand why Chris would have read it for those reasons but also because it gives you a great sense of connection to the concept. I found a great deal of relation to the literature and I learnt alot form it. Great read for anyone who want to challenge their mind :)
This was a book I studied when I first went back to school as an adult. We did Waldon Pond. There was just too much that I didn't agree with Thoreau about. It is easy to live in the woods when you borrow the right to live on someone else's land (I think it was Hawthorne's) and then you borrow your tools from your neighbors! I developed a dislike for Mr. Thoreau through that essay.
I gave the book three stars, because I found myself getting angry at him through the course of the book, but while I may bot share all of his views, this book was very well written, and is very interesting to read. You will view our society much differently after this....
Thoreau is a genius. I love his optimism. I read Walden when I was a kid, and it messed me up. I still owe much of what I believe to his ideas. He ruined me. But in a good way, I hope. He is a true American original.
I long for a society that shares Thoreau's philosophies! Simpler times, & less greedy, less materialistic people! I really enjoyed philosophy in college and I can't wait to make more time to read this book and others like it.
I really enjoy reading philosophy because its works present the reader with new concepts and views to consider, some that one may never have even thought of or considered otherwise. Thoreau's thought processes, which are summarized in this book, are definitely interesting to contemplate.
Truly one of the most magnificient writers ever. I admire his style and his ability to convey poignant prose which can be understood by the "common man"! A true "romantic"! I've love his work since I was a young kid. He was the inspiration that motivated me to write my very first poem!
i want to learn the freedom and joy of solitude. I want to know the nature of this experience so that i may call upon its calming effects in the most crowded of places.
Difficult reading! I thoroughly enjoyed reading the essays and poems in this Anthology edited by Carl Bode. Society could learn a few things from Thoreau!
I discovered that I only like Thoreau quotes, his work as a whole is a little boring.
My favorite. ❤️
The Portable Thoreau (Penguin Classics) by Henry David Thoreau (1964)
always reading/...will most likely never stop. nice concise collection of the most important
Where I lived and what I lived for........"What is a house but a Sedes?"
Dry and academic, but what the hell do you expect from Thoreau?
Thoreau was ahead of his time in regards to environmental awareness but he has a tendency to go off on a tangent.
