https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/321173.The_Civilization_of_the_Middle_Ages
His writing is accessible but not the easy-to-digest style he perfects in such later book as "In the Wake of the Plague" and "Antiquity." I have two complaints.First, there are no maps or photos of any kind and the book suffers because of it.
Modern maps do not represent the heavily forested, mostly rural Europe of the Middle Ages.
If you are a college student and you need to write a paper on some aspect of the Middle Ages, this is the book for you (but be prepared to get your maps somewhere else.)
Cantor, however, focuses on a number of loci: the interplay between Roman and German law; the nuances of theology upon life, and the changes thereof; and many fascinating connections between medieval life and today.
While much of this narrative is more pertinent to the ideology behind the Inquisition, what it meant for early Middle Ages was the centrality of govt against village-oriented govt.
The ancient Germanic principle was that law belongs to the community (316).For Cantor the defining moment of the Middle Ages is the Gregorian Revolution (247).
The strengths of the book more than cover the faults.
I disagree with some of the conclusions that Cantor draws, I think that he a little too often states as fact what is really conjecture or a best-guess, and I wish that he had actually taken the time to give citations on many of his more controversial statements.
And he does this in a style that I think even those who don't have quite the love for history that I possess would be able to appreciate: as a narrative and flow of events rather than disconnected names and dates.
The reason I reread it is twofold; one I have been reading mostly mind candy thrillers and, two, I have always considered this one of my favorite books.
Cantor was one of the pioneers of bringing the middle ages out of the dark ages.
It's amazing the number of cultural foundations we take for granted that were begun in the middle ages - the university system, law, most of religion - the list goes on.
Cantor makes it all very interesting.It was good to read something substantial.
I wonder what Cantor would have thought of such a ridiculous idea!
Compelling reading and first class treatment of medieval civilization, the author painstakingly address every possible angle in the study of medievalism, from the influence of Greek, Judeo-Christian until Islam's culture that has formed and reformed the multiple faces of middle ages. Also he discuss the crusade factor in political middle ages and the contour of scholasticism that later gave birth to european enlightenment.This book is simply a must , I wouldn't classify myself as cultured man until the day I finish the last page of this book.
I can still see where I could get a bit worried because of the way this is brought up, but for complete accuracy and for my own future reference, I'm posting an entire paragraph here:"Ambrose also had a great influence on the attitude of the Christian church toward love and sexuality.
I've come across that particular mistaken notion far too often in historical books, and I think I started to have a kneejerk reaction to it.Many times when I read about the horrors of the Catholic church in its earliest history, I forget that this is, in my belief system, a very fallen Christianity.
I'm re-reading this book because my own personal interest in Medieval Europe, since I'll be studying for my doctorate in the subject.
Anyway, it's a solid, well-written, overview of Medieval Europe (one reviewer remarked that it's eurocentric, apparently oblivious to the fact that the book is specifically about European civilization).
I'm still partial to Durant and primary source material, but this is a solid work packed with information.
As with any book on history, it's always smart to read as much primary source material as possible.
Again, as far as an overview of his subject, Cantor's work is worth reading.
A great introduction to the period. He's a cranky, cantankerous guy, and he doesn't hesitate to take swipes at other historians, but it's part of the entertainment. You'll get a thorough grounding in the all aspects of the time, both the traditional concerns of history, like wars and economics, but also lifestyles and particularly internal church history. Maybe not to everyone's taste, but if you like this sort of thing, well, you'll like it.
Recently, since I have all the time in the world now in which to read (and not much money for the purchasing of new books), I decided to give it a second go-round.Cantor's style is very interesting, sort of a combination between history written for a popular audience, and history written for an academic audience.
He has many strong opinions on most areas of the subject, and certainly doesn't express them in a manner congenial to modern academia of the histories.While the book is an overview, one quickly realizes that Cantor's primary forte is the history and development of governmental, financial and ecclesiastic institutions and practices, the codification of secular and canon law, with a secondary emphasis on the development (or often in this case, rediscovery) of classical philosophy, learning and statecraft.
The solution, I think, might actually have been two or three books by Norman Cantor, say, "The Catholic Church in the Middle Ages" accompanied by "State, Nation, and Monarchy in the Middle Ages." I would have read both of these books, and they might have allowed for a clearer, more exclusive focus on each subject while still permitting glances at the obvious interweaving of each.That having been said, the prose was, as I said, very enjoyable for a history, and the subject matter was intensely interesting, despite the way its mass was difficult to contain in its volume.
Cantor and it was pretty good.
It mentioned everything I wanted to know.
I am not always sure if I was getting everything I needed to know but it was good nevertheless.
like killing Pope Boniface VIII for example or burning the Grand Knight Templar at the stake, or condemning two of his daughters to life in prison....
stuff like that.
He also mentioned how the Jews were faring during this time which is an interest of mine since I'm Jewish.I bought the book so that I could look things up but a straight through reading went very well.
I enjoyed reading this book but would only recommend it to people who have a serious interest in knowing about the Middle Ages and/or history nerds.
(I sometimes can’t believe I was that person who hated history in high school and college since I love it now.) Reading this behemoth of a book sucked up almost a month of my time and the pages are filled with notes, various scribblings and underlines.
I am very glad I will not be tested on the subject as sadly I already know I am not going to retain even half of it.
I'm finished.
I'm embarrassed that there is such a big gap in my knowledge about this period.
What should have been obvious to me is that there can be no understanding of the Middle Ages, at least in Europe, without knowing the evolution of the Catholic Church post-Constantine.
That's why more and more I'm buying books on Kindle.
I love holding a book but I hate squinting for hours at a time.
And yes I do wear reading glasses and had my eyes checked recently.
I ended up reading The Brothers Kamarazov on a Kindle for the same reason.
Fascinating history of Europe from fall of the Roman Empire to the Renaissance. Written with clarity, and without much bias. Even highly controversial topics such as the Crusades and Inquisition, Cantor avoids either haranguing or defending, simply provides context and background. Would give it a higher rating but it doesn't really transcend its genre, by that I mean that there's not much reason to read it unless you have a particular interest in medieval history.
A balanced, informative book. I keep going back to it, it's a permanent 'installation' in my life now :-) I am sure there are other good books on the subject, but this one stuck with me. I have it in paper form. Nice, heavy, pages packed with small print, just the way I like it. :-) Definitely give it a go.
I had never really enjoyed learning about this period in history, but when I picked up this book, it pulled me into the vast, complex story that is Europe's foundation. It makes our own recent history so much more understandable. The book was well written and I would recommend it to anyone who enjoys broadening their knowledge of history.
very long and very boring... only finished first half. each book of will durant's "the story of civilization" is twice as long as this, but Durant's writing is more interesting... I'll have to continue learning about the middle ages somewhere else.
Detailed and thorough exposition of the Middle Ages from the fall of Rome to the renaissance.
A good, well written, popular history of Medieval Europe later expanded and updated as The Civilization of the Middle Ages. The text would be suitable for an introductory undergraduate course.
Delightful read--Cantor has a historians wit (as the good ones do).
Every page is interesting (if you're interested in this kind of thing).
Cantor also thinks that Augustine's pessimistic view of human nature was an improvement over the classical view, which is a good indication that Cantor is heading in a generally "conservative" direction with respect to the implications of his work for contemporary politics and culture.Since the Catholic church largely took the lead in developing Medieval civilization, a convenient way to convey much of Cantor's understanding of the Middle Ages is to look at the three medieval popes who Cantor calls the greatest: Gregory I, Gregory VII, and Innocent III.Gregory I, who died in the early 7th century, was the first pope who had served as a monk.
Cantor does not share the twenty-first century insistence that civilization and barbarism are nothing more than arbitrary categories reflecting cultural prejudices.
He believes in civilization as a cultural achievement; he believes that the Roman achievement was clouded by barbarism after the fall of the Western Roman Empire; and he believes that Medieval Europeans built a new civilization, with the intellectual and artistic achievements that the title entails, which reached its apogee after the eleventh century and declined through the thirteenth and fourteenth centuries.
It was instead the Anglo-Saxon and other Germanic peoples who had lived on the periphery of the Empire, and felt most acutely the collapse of Imperial order.
The Civilization of the Middle Ages: A Completely Revised and Expanded Edition of Medieval HistoryI learned too much to write about in detail from this sweeping book of Western European history from the Roman Empire to the Renaissance.
Cantor repeatedly returns to Greek and Roman works on philosophy and political science and their importance in the development of Western European institutions, both from the beginning and later when they were "rediscovered" and translated into Latin during the Rennaisance and had to be reconciled with theology by people like Thomas Aquinas.
This book has a rather strained beginning, with Cantor reaching back to ancient times to find the roots of the social structures that came to define the medieval era.
Thankfully, though, this doesn't last for too many pages, and when Cantor hits his stride he proves very capable of encapsulating the complexity of social, religious, and intellectual movements in the Middle Ages, despite having to cover a lot of time in relatively few pages.
Such an organization would have better illustrated for the reader Cantor's conception of the history of the Middle Ages.
A solid if not always scintillating overview of Western European culture and society from the fall of the Roman Empire until the year 1500.
It's not a compilation of names, dates and incidents, but rather an analysis of the general trends defining the era.
The ongoing turf wars between the papacy, the monarchies and the nobility of the major nations was an especially tedious thread, but throughout the book Cantor does a great job of contextualizing historical developments and demonstrating how and why people at various levels of society felt and behaved the ways they did.
Definitely makes me excited to dig into some more specific topics that this bird's-eye-view approach could only hint at.
This is a great introduction to the major trends and personalities that influenced the period of European history. For the general reader, this is perfect and probably all that's needed. It was a fairly easy, enjoyable read. I feel I have a much better understanding of the nuances of the politics and social movements of the times -- and how they still influence our world today. The latter chapters leading up to the Renaissance read a little too much like a college syllabus at times, glossing over this period. But you'd probably need another book to really cover this period.
Oh, my gosh! This is so long that it is gruelling. It has taken months, maybe over a year for me to get through it. But, the total picture is panoramic, engages new and old research in its interpretation of the content, and delivers on the promise of its title. It is a good but demanding read and I highly recommend it. But, be warned. It requires discipline to make it through the book. Again, the payoff is worth it.
This is very educational and in-depth. Reads like a text book so it can be pretty dry at times and overloaded with detail, but you won't be left wanting more
His account also extends well into the Renaissance, and this expansive view of the Middle Ages is extremely valuable for placing the currents and causes of the times into the larger context of Western history.There were certain problems Western Europe inherited from the Roman Empire, like what to do about those damned Germans.
It was a time of innovation, exploration, growth, decay and change, but compared to the relatively orderly progression of events and ideas that dominated the preceding centuries it is hard to see what is driving it.In summary: I've not encountered any single-volume history of such a long period except maybe Grant's "The Ancient Mediterranean", and I don't ever expect to again.
