https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/4865.How_to_Win_Friends_and_Influence_People
It did give me pointers on how to actually break out of my shell and "win friends" but in the long term, it did way more harm than good.
I ended up with a bunch of friends I didn't really want and, because I was so preoccupied with "winning" those friendships I missed out on the chance to form relationships with good people.
But that's really just me trying to find something positive (using the "principles") in a book that I am still trying to UNlearn.If you want to win friends, you have to do it the hard way, by being yourself and risking rejection (and daring to do some rejection of your own, as well).
Finally, a great friend of mine recommended it to me and I started reading it.
This is a book for people.
Anyone who ever has problems getting along with people should read this book.
I know I do, but this book has completely changed my perspective.
This really comes close to a life changing book.
The main point of this book is that if you want to have friends and be successful, you should be nice not mean.
This is a great book.
This book definitely change your perception towards people around & also it teaches you a lot how you see & judge other. It's wondering that this book was inspired from this old Indian book:https://www.amazon.com/Know-Your-Wort...
Dale, saying people's names often when you're talking to them, Dale, doesn't make you popular, Dale, it makes you sound like a patronizing creep.This book is probably really handy when you're trying to befriend kindergarteners, not as much adults. It's also aimed at salespeople and not regular humans.
Three things about this book surprised me and I liked it a lot more than I thought I would.
Not much anachronism here, because language still serves the same purposes as ever, and people still want basically the same things they've always wanted.
I liked the examples taken from Abe Lincoln, etc.Two - the techniques described in the book aren't duplicitous.
Shortly after reading this book, I was a little bit better at communicating and a little bit happier about my interactions with others in general.
It's an icon of self help books and that was a problem because I kind of hate that genre.
Well, I was surprised to read some sensible advice and I decided to actually read more.
Some examples were really interesting others a bit ridiculous.
One of the problems I had with the author and one I find too often in self-help books is the condescending tone, the ones that tells you how smart he is and that she is the only one capable to tell you how success is achieved.
It was an interesting read, I learn some useful skills but it isn't groundbreaking anymore in my opinion.
For those of you who may not know, Carnegie's How to Win Friends and Influence People is a handbook on how to exploit friendship for the sake of financial and political gain.
One need only read all the garish claims on the back of the book (I have an earlier edition than the one usually found in bookstores today) such as, say, "Increase your earning power" "(Carnegie's book will) [m]ake you a better salesman, a better executive." If the book were really about true friendship, as its many lobotomized fans insist, then one would expect the blurbs to claim that the book will make the reader a better friend, not a better salesman.
أذكر منهم قصتان, والأولى منهما تصرفت فيها قليلاً:"إن معظم الشبان الراغبين في الزواج لا يهمهم أن تكون الزوجة المنشودة ربة بيت من الطراز الأول بقدر ما يهمهم أن تشبع غرورهم, وتمنحهم الإحساس بالأهمية والاعتبار!"ولعل هذا هو السر في أن أكثر الفتيات المثقفات يخفقن في الحصول على الأزواج, فإنك قد تدعو الفتاة المثقفة للغداء معك , فلا تلبث أن تتركك وقد تحمست لدراسة التيارات الهامة في الفلسفة المعاصرة - مثلاً- وماذا تكون النتيجة؟ تتناول غداءها بعد ذلك بلا رفيق.ولكنك قد تدعو إلى الغداء فتاة تعمل على الآلة الكاتبة ولم تدرس قط في الجامعة, فلا تلبث أن تثبت نظرها عليك, وتقول لك: "حدثني عن نفسك" وماذا تكون النتيجة؟ سوف تشعر بالأمان في صحبتها, وسوف تقول حتماً في لأصحابك: "صحيح إنها ليست على قدر كبير من الجمال, ولكني ارتحت لها!" منذ وقت قصير, وقع صديق لي في غرام فتاة لم يلبث أن خطبها, وبعد قليل من خطبته, رغبت إليه خطيبته في أن يتعلم الرقص فاستجاب لرغبتها.
It's considered corny to read books like this, but that kind of cynicism is ultimately limiting and counterproductive. My dad forced me to read this book and it was one of the main things that pushed me out of my shyness and made me an amicable person.
A book that aims to turn us into manipulating individuals who would want to achieve their means through flattery and other verbal-mental tricks.
Here is a quote from the book - “Don't be afraid of enemies who attack you.
Be afraid of the friends who flatter you.” And what does the book do?
It tries, or at least pretends to turn you into a someone who would flatter everything that moves – so that you get - WHAT YOU WANT.
Most of us read so that we are inspired, moved, even shocked or atleast entertained by stories.
How to Win Friends and Influence People, Dale CarnegieHow to Win Friends and Influence People is a self-help book written by Dale Carnegie, published in 1936. Over 15 million copies have been sold worldwide, making it one of the best-selling books of all time. In 2011, it was number 19 on Time Magazine's list of the 100 most influential books. تاریخ نخستین خوانش: سال 1968 میلادیکتاب راهکارهای بسیار ساده ای را که به کار بردن آن راهکارها تاثیر بسیاری در بهبود روابط اجتماعی خواهد داشت، به خوانشگر م
Over 15 million copies have been sold worldwide, making it one of the best-selling books of all time.
In 2011, it was number 19 on Time Magazine's list of the 100 most influential books.
آئین دوست‌یابی یا عنوان اصلی: چگونه می‌توان دوست یافت و در مردم نفوذ کرد؛ کتابی در سبک «کمک به خود» نوشتهٔ دیل کارنگی است.
این کتاب یکی از نخستین و بهترین کتاب‌های «کمک به خود» است، نخستین چاپ این کتاب در سال 1936 میلادی بوده است.
مترجمان بسیاری تا کنون کتاب را به فارسی ترجمه کرده‌ اند که بیشتر آنها همین عنوان مختصر: «آئین دوست یابی» را برای کتاب برگزیده اند.
When dealing with people, let us remember we are not dealing with creatures of logic. We are dealing with creatures of emotion, creatures bristling with prejudices and motivated by pride and vanity. Dale Carnegie is a quintessentially American type. He is like George F. Babbitt come to life—except considerably smarter. And here he presents us with the Bible for the American secular religion: capitalism with a smile.In a series of short chapters, Carnegie lays out a philosophy of human interacti
If you want to persuade somebody, don’t argue, and never contradict them; instead, be friendly, emphasize the things you agree on, get them to do most of the talking, and let them take credit for every bright idea.The most common criticism lodged at this book is that it teaches manipulation, not genuine friendship.
Good friends aren't like difficult customers; they are people you can argue with and vent to, people who you don't have to impress.Nevertheless, I think it’s not accurate to say that Carnegie is teaching manipulation.
This book is a life changer ! Really, I'm not making this up. This was exactly what I needed. Some things that are described in this book I realized before reading this book, but there were a lot of things I never thought about myself but are so true. I don't like conflicts and I found a lot of tips in this book about this topic..so how not to be in fights with people. Yaaay, my zen is safe! =)
Success only came late in life when he was teaching an evening school class on the topic of how to win friends and influence people.
Barbara Ehrenreich discusses this all very nicely in Smile or Die. It is only a short book and won't harm you if you give it a read, but despite the title doesn't have a lot of advice on how to win friends or influence people.
A good book to lend to people with a big smile as they will suspect that you are trying to win their friendship and/or influence them the beerfree way.
Overall: A well written book with a lot of examples, including many of good folks from the history and many without any citation, but none-the-less seem real. The examples are written so that the message goes across well. Repetition is avoided. The stuff mentioned is pretty obvious and simple, but important and often ignored. Worth reading multiple times as the preface recommends. TEXT DELETED105 SIX WAYS TO MAKE PEOPLE LIKE YOUPRINCIPLE 1: Become genuinely interested in other people. PRINCIPLE
PRINCIPLE 2: SmilePRINCIPLE 3: Remember that a person’s name is to that person the sweetest and most important sound in any language.
You can’t win an argument.
It is a lot easier at this stage to agree to think about their points than to move rapidly ahead and find yourself in a position where your opponents can say: “We tried to tell you, but you wouldn’t listen.” 8.
Think of them as people who really want to help you, and you may turn your opponents into friends.
PRINCIPLE 1: The only way to get the best of an argument is to avoid it.
This was really the world's first self-help book and undoubtedly helped many people build their self-esteem.
It is easy to read and its tenants are easy to follow.
The one criticism that many have justly laid on it is the feeling that you are manipulating people into being your friends or accomplices (thus the "win" in the title).
As such, the techniques work with a subpopulation of people you run into over the span of your life nut certainly not all of them.
And true friendships are about depth and mutual respect so no techniques are required.
This book is a guide to life.
I think several people should be required to read this book at least once.
Teachers, emotional teenagers, employers, employees, husbands, wives, brothers, sisters, friends, neighbors, politicians etc...I truly found this book oddly entertaining.
Although it is a self-improvement type book, I couldn't put it down.
Through the examples of many famous and successful people throughout history, this book teaches us how to work with others and be nice.
خرجت منه ببعض النصائح العملية الجيدة، لكنه سطحي في بعض أقسامه ومحتواه مألوف إلى حد كبير
This is the most boring, tedious, inane book I've ever read. It is a total of 236 pages but the essence could be boiled down to 12 at most. Every chapter, he has one point summarized in a neat box at the end. I skimmed the rest. He gives you six examples when one or two would do. He deliberately repeats himself. He wastes the readers' time.Do yourself a favor and just read the "In a Nutshell" summary points at the end of each chapter. You won't miss anything.
This book is how to deal with everyone else with seemingly-obvious principles such as smile, be a good listener, talk in terms of other people’s interests, and make the other person feel important.So friends, not so much.
And you will have to do it if you want attention.”And on the eighth day, God created cable news.Carnegie thwarts our skepticism about the nobility of his intentions and promises that he is no self-help scammer, a Kevin Trudeau, Carnegie promises, he is not:“The principles taught in this book will work only when they come from the heart.
Easy to understand advice for building and improving positive and successful relationships with people in all areas of your life.
Not a book per se for making friends, although it certainly can be used that way (with a grain of salt perhaps), but more directly a book that promotes good communication, kindness, and the social skills to foster healthy and productive working relationships.
I can see how some people are taken aback by Carnegie’s advice.
Go into it with a reflective approach and a genuine and concentrated effort to gain wisdom and you will be rewarded with the insights to achieve the goodwill of others as well as solid and lasting relationships.
This is by no means a bad book, but since we're on the topic, I'll mention the cons first.
Nope.The thing is, I don't want to win friends and influence people.
That's antisocial suicide.Stage 2: Go into asshole mode - make snide remarks, but be nice enough so the person will let you keep making snide remarks.Stage 3: Have no tact or diplomacy because that means you're lying and possibly weak.Stage 4: Finally decide you may like them and go into nice-but-hyper-and-distracted mode.
In the end there's not many wonderful things I can say about this book.
Sometimes I felt this book was a bit too . . . "used-car-salesmanshippy". There are some good ideas in it, but there are also some things which felt like they were extremely disingenuous. I don't like FAKE people. There are some ideas in here which are quite fake.
This book presents one of the classic statements of popular psychology oriented around positive self-image, self reliance, and cooperative relationships with others.
Carnegie's classic work calls on the reader to both treat people on their own terms and also to attempt to influence them to get their cooperation in attaining one's objectives.
Without more specification of how and where to balance, however, the book becomes a more cynical effort to redefine the problem of positive social relations in the form of a solution -- in order to influence people and get your way, treat them authentically.
This was about two things that don't interest me. At the time, I picked it up for the business perspective but I don't think I ever finished it.*****2/5/2017That sounds so anti-social I want to briefly annotate. I favor an alternative philosophy of being genuine. You will likely yield fewer friends of higher quality and perhaps be less successful but I think it will ultimately result in a higher quality of life.Other than that, this book does have practical advice on business etiquette.
Every week for the past seven years my father has diligently asked me--without fail--whether or not I had finally read this book.
How to Win Friends & Influence People changed my father's life when he first read it, back during the 1970s, and as such he's wanted me to read it as well.
(I also dislike the phrase "winning" friends...) So, the first part of this book was useless, the second part--"influence people"--isn't as helpful as it should be and the last part, leadership attributes, are yet again qualities I don't think can be completely taught.
At the end of the Great Depression, Dale Carnegie wrote one of the benchmark self-help books of American literary history.
But Carnegie gives you a 10 step program to follow (the Ten Commandments must have been too vague).I guess the whole idea is that when you are agreeable, intellectual, considerate, proper, quick, thoughtful and strong, people will go out of their way to be nice to you and do you favors.
That social axiom is my particular beef with self-help books in general.
But of all self-help authors, Carnegie outlines it fairly and motivationally.
But with uninterrupted sales since the late 30s and over 15 million copies sold worldwide, Carnegie’s book is well worth the read…or the skim.
Cuốn sách mình ghét nhất, ghét từ nội dung đến cách người ta ca tụng nóChỉ là dạy cách khai thác tình bạn để phục vụ cho lợi ích của bản thân.
Save the gospel itself, and my mission president, this book has been the single most influential thing in my life.
It will make him want to admit that he, too, may be wrong.”(Dale Carnegie, How to Win Friends and Influence People, p.
But it takes character and self-control to be understanding and forgiving.“‘A great man shows his greatness,’ said Carlyle, ‘by the way he treats little men.’”“Criticisms are like homing pigeons.
It not only clears the air of guilt and defensiveness, but often helps solve the problem created by the error.”(Dale Carnegie, How to Win Friends and Influence People, p.
Re-read (or rather re-listened to) this, as I promised myself I was going to do when I got it last year.
This last week I challenged her to show me her first test or quiz, in any class, above 80% and promised an unspecified reward.Thank you Mr. Carnegie!<><><><><><>Recently a good friend and colleague told me how much this book helped her and I remembered how much I enjoyed it when I first read it (years ago).
The author and my friend both recommend returning to the principles of this book at least once @ year.
