https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/31324.Collected_Stories
These little short stories are tight, twisty, unexpected, and ridiculously addictive. The stories often start out as predictable, colonialist vignettes about stolid, boring British colonels and missionaries in exotic locales, but beware, things are not what they appear to be! The natives are not simple creatures, the men are not manly (or even straight), the women are not submissive or obedient, and the quinine isn't quite doing the trick.You can't read just one - these stories are like delicious, but strangely mysterious, potato chips. Just the thing when you need a smart escape.
But this is probably what makes Maugham such a great writer, and a particularly accomplished writer of short stories: he is very good at illustrating the flaws of his characters, and flaws make for the best internal, emotional conflicts, as well as the conflicts between the protagonist and others.The stories set in the Pacific islands catered to my interest in colonial and postcolonial fiction.
Not that this detracts from the quality of the stories, mind you, for Maugham uses this length to good ends.
I didn’t have the same reaction to his short stories, but they have reawakened my desire to read more of Maugham’s work—until now, he was mostly a one-book author for me.
The greatest story teller of the English language!
It's one of the best books I have ever read, almost as good as "Of Human Bondage".I really enjoy Maugham's writing, but I have to say his prejudice and stigma in stories like "Pool" really bothers me.
Probably Maugham would never be able to attain the same kind of enlightened view as George Orwell.
Even if they are Izzart's mother, even if they saved Campion's life from drowning, they don't deserve sympathies and the main characters don't need to feel any guilt about it.
None that I know of.In my twenties, I spent some months in hospitals, because of a stomach ulcer, but reading Maugham helped me pull through.These short stories cover fabulous territories- The West Indies, The South Seas, France, Spain –with jungles or The Riviera, characters raging from consuls to natives of Java, it is a fascinating world that we can visit without standing up from the armchair.To add some real and present exotique presence- while I am writing this, I have two macaws perched, one on my shoulder and the other on…my head.The Point of Honor takes place in Spain, which is glorified in the introduction.
Somerset Maugham dramatisations, narrated by Dirk BogardeHave to agree with Inder's summing up - 'You can't read just one - these stories are like delicious, but strangely mysterious, potato chips. Just the thing when you need a smart escape.'
Brilliant and bitingly funny and cynical stories by a master of the craft.
Described as a galvanizing pinnacle of his true metier. Either way I thought the stories were up there with the best i have ever read.
I've read all his short stories many times over. This isn't the volume I've read. Mine has 900+ pages!Maugham was dedicated to writing stories that have a beginning, a middle, and an end. I like that. You can always tell what's happened in his stories. I love the wry, self-effacing humor of the narrator in so many of his works (a thinly disguised self-portrait, I believe).It's true that he waxes prosaic at the beginnings of many stories, but forgive him that. Read on. The plots and characters are almost always fascinating
remarkable how consistent humans are. we think that times have changed, but we continue to have the same frailties and desires. it is best to dip into the stories rather then read straight through, since after 2 or 3 it's pretty easy to see the plot twists coming, but the interest for me is all in the settings and the people rather than the suspense. anyone who is considering spending some time in a different culture should bring these stories along to save a lot of embarrassing gushing.
This is one of a handful of books that stays with me through garage sales, moves and regular culls. To me Maugham is a master of the short story. He will lead you into the dark recesses of the colonial mind with a gin pahit and a game of bridge not far from hand, just to take the edge off. This compilation contains 'Rain', one of his most well-known stories. I'm not one to be grandiose, but you really are in the presence of genius here.
Maugham was the most widely-read and well-paid writer of his day. Considering himself primarily a storyteller, he avoided the modernist Cult of the Sentence. Orwell said he was the contemporary writer who most influenced him. To this day, he has never received much attention from the critical establishment.The guy was my hero before I even picked up this book.
It seems silly to rave about a collection of short stories, I've read several "collected stories of..." and typically they're a mixture of good and OK and so so. I have read several of Maugham's novels and really liked them and expected this volume to be sort of like other collections I've read - not the case. Short stories are truely Maugham's medium. Brilliant from start to finish.
Thirty or so stories the majority of which are set in the Far East at the turn of the century.
The lives and loves of those posted from England to govern and work in the colonies provide the author with much of his material.
There are a small number of stories set in England.
The book ends with several stories based on the authors own experiences as a spy at the beginning of the First World War. The stories reflect the mores of the time when cohabiting with a native girl and having an affair or marrying somebody below your station was seen as "gossip worthy".
Becomes somewhat repetitive with further reading, as the story structure almost inevitably follows the sequence 'protagonist (most likely a travelling author) meets a person with unusual behaviour/ostracised by society/learns something surprising about someone they have known for a long time -> protagonist learns the backstory of this person -> reader learns how and why the person in question arrived at the spot where they were when the protagonist met them'.
Tendency for a surprise twist that one begins to anticipate as one reads more of these stories.
Overall, I liked them well and am looking forward to reading Maugham's most famous work 'Of Human Bondage' next.
His stories are usually set in a claustrophobic world bound by codes of behaviour which may seem antiquated nowadays .
He often leads us to believe in the early paragraphs that the story will be about one person only to sidestep and lead us to meet another character .
The settings are often colonial in nature but he rarely seems interested in the native populations but concentrates generally on the English planters and travellers .
What a life he must have led , travelling , when the world seemed so much bigger and unknown .
Maugham is a great, great story teller and his stories bear ample evidence that (as do his novels, long and short). Maybe he was top student, second class, as he said himself, but he remains one of my favorites. This book is not complete stories, as the title sort of implies, but a collection of some of his best, including MOST of his great Ashenden secret agent stories.
Top-class writing that is allowed to shine only intermittently though, thanks to stories of uneven quality. Some of the plots are too cute, often juvenile. Maugham stands out when he deals with relationships and its nuances; not so much when it comes to stories of adventure and magic.
I have always enjoyed this, probably because of the atmosphere and the strange stories. I have read it twice now.
My own opinion of Fleming's writing wasn't exactly clear to me at the time but now it is and I think it's kind of pointless to keep reading these stories, especially since I'm not even enjoying them.I won't give the collection a star rating as a whole since I only read 5 out of 31 of the stories but here are my ratings for the stories I did read.In a Strange Land (1/5) - Signora Niccolini was almost an interesting character but I would have liked an actual conflict in the story and there wasn't one.Rain (3/5) - I felt that Mr. Davidson and Sadie Thompson's personalities were a bit exaggerated.
I don't think Maugham really gave a good reason for Lawson to commit suicide.Mackintosh (2/5) - I don't think I understood the point of this story, honestly.
Maugham has a way of describing his characters so that they seem like real people not just characters in a story.
I think I will read this book in small doses, Maugham's dark view of human nature can be depressing.
I only read the first five stories so far, but at the end of three of them someone has committed suicide.
Maugham doesn't seem to favor the happy ending.After finishing the book...This book really grew on me.
Although Maugham's view of human motives and reasoning is decidedly dark I thoroughly enjoyed this collection.
One of the greatest writers of short stories ever.
Period.One of my favourite short stories is the Back of Beyond.
And Somerset Maugham brings out the frailties in human characters meticulously.The Back of Beyond - "...
but if to look truth in the face and not resent it when it's unpalatable, and take human nature as you find it, smiling when it's absurd and grieved without exaggeration when it's pitiful, is to be cynical, then I suppose I am a cynic.
Mostly human nature is both absurd and pitiful, but if life has taught you tolerance you find in it more to smile at than to weep."
Poctivo som sa dopracovala len k jednej poviedke: Nádoba hříchu. A tá sa mi páčila, síce "len" v rozlasovej (dramatickej) podobe, ale zasmiala som sa. Na každého raz dôjde alebo na keď na psa príde mráz... :)
Прекрасные рассказы. Зарисовки из жизни колониальной Малайзии и Филиппинских островов особенно хороши. Но и в целом вся книга изумительно иллюстрирует временной промежуток начала 20того века, как на смену чопорному миру джентльменов и леди приходит новый мир прогресса, равенства и амбиций.
His short stories are so fantastic! They made me realize how deeply I love and need to travel and meet new people. I just don't read enough of his stuff, and I should. The places he writes about, so vivid. Made me realize how vital it is that I go to the island of Capri, off of Italy, before I die.
Of the 31 stories collected in this volume, 5 of them (#26-30) are in fact the first 80% of Ashenden. I found that out when I purchased 'Ashenden'. I don't mind; they're such good stories!
I wasn't a great fan of short stories until I saw how effective it can be done. The first story, 'Rain', is brilliant and no other story quite matches it for atmosphere with the result that I find myself pulling it out of the bookshelf every couple of years to enjoy all over again.
He captures characters well yet tends to crap out on the endings.
He's fun. Made me curious to see what he would say in a larger space. Very witty. Very brit-ish! Cheers!
I read the Ashenden stories, which were pretty good. It was more like the Graham Greene style spy story than James Bondish.
