https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/206196.The_Lions_of_Lucerne
Sloppy writing with an entirely too predictable plot.
After loving my first exposure to Brad Thor and his Scot Harvath character, in Black List, I figured I would start back at the beginning with the first in the series.
While the writing isn't as tight -- this is Thor's first published book -- the story was just as compelling, if not more so.
The stakes couldn't be higher, with Secret Service Agent Scot Harvath having to hunt down those responsible for the kidnapping of the U.S. President and the killing of thirty of Scot's Secret Service co-workers.
And while the realism was a bit lacking, as is tradition in this genre, this was as close to realism as it seems to get, which I appreciated.
But hey, as it turned out, it wasn't that it was outre right-wing that turned me off, but that when it comes down to it I'm the kind of gal who believes Lee Harvey Oswald acted alone to assassinate President John F.
What I do find hard to believe is that to defeat a bill in Congress they'd conspire to assassinate Secret Service agents and kidnap the American president and frame the surviving agent for murder.
What I do find hard to believe is a US Senator who to cover up a homosexual affair orders a hit on his lover.
Meh.After reading 11 Vince Flynn novels, and being unable to wait until Vince beats cancer so he can write some more, I decided to give this Brad Thor guy a shot.
For example, they just had 30 fellow Secret Service agents shot up, and the president kidnapped, and immediately after Thor feels like it is a good time to develop protagonist Scot Harvath's character with some everyday, locker-room type, humorous banter--and not of the "this is how I'm dealing with the difficult situation" variety.
There are a bunch of other flaws.
The depiction of Mormons is hilariously flawed.
It reads a lot like a Ludlum novel, with contemporary overtones.There were times that the character development and individual scenes really drew me in, and there were times, especially during the gun fights, where it felt stereotypical.
The action scenes were interesting, but they felt like every gunfight movie I have ever seen.
I like the characters and there are plot twists that drive the story and reveal the author's talent, despite the cookie cutter format of much of the action.
Overall I liked it, but there were slow parts that I skimmed and found myself having to reread if there were critical plot elements I overlooked.3.75 stars.
Sort of a cross between TV's "24" and a Tom Clancy thriller, the Scot Harvath character is well-written and can be related to; he isn't a superhero, he makes mistakes (losing the President being one of them) and now must try to resolve that mistake even when facing obstacle after obstacle.Brad Thor does something in this novel you don't come across too often; he keeps the focus on the *search* for the President and those involved, lead by Harvath, as opposed to focussing *on* the President.
In fact, now that I think of it, I'm not sure the President is even revisited during the course of the search after he is kidnapped.
Action packed from page 1, Scot Harvath gets beaten, mugged, shot at but keeps popping back up until he identifies and kills all the bad guys!!
If you like action, political intrigue and a quick read - this is the book for you.
Scot does look like invincible superman though - the bad guys fail to kill him many times.
Non- stop action thriller that keeps you turning the page.
Lots of action over US and Switzerland searching for missing President.
Some action parts not real believable - hero had hundreds of rounds fired at him by well trained mercenaries and only hit once.
This thriller is the first of a series chronicling the adventures of one Scott Harvath, Secret Service agent and all-around stubborn, slightly egotistical, obsessive pursuer of justice/bad guys, adrenaline junkie, etc.
Scott Harvath works the Presidential detail, but this particular day, he is escorting the president's teenage daughter around the ski slopes at Park City, Utah.
The president takes the Death Chute followed by the majority of the Secret Service agents, and Scott helps the less skilled daughter down an easier route.
The story was "okay", but the book could have been better with more thorough research.
wanted to read the Brad Thor book on the best seller list and found that this book is first in a group (Tom Clancey-like) of thrillers with the same main character.
Since the first book "sets" the character I decided to read it first and I wasn't disappointed.
A funny sideline is that - being set in the DeerValley/Park City area a Mormon family became part of the plot.
Just when I decided the author had researched with a disgruntled Mormon I found out he lived parttime in Park City.
Now we will see if I like the current book with the same "super man" hero.
The villains' forgetting to kill the good guys while the good guys have to be around them to move the story forward, the same villains allowing the secrets to escape because of the eavesdropping, the good guys surviving at least five point-blank shots/similar at various stages with the partner appearing in the nick of time, the partners-to-be coming across each other through a "common friend" in Swiss Alps and the list just goes on and on and on.I am sure Thor's celebrated hero must have got a lot better in the later books, but unlike Vince Flynn's and other similar authors' superheroes, he starts somewhat low on deduction and intelligence.
08/23/08TITLE/AUTHOR: LIONS OF LUCERNE by Brad ThorRATING: 4.5/B+GENRE/PUB DATE/# OF PGS: Thriller/2002/416 pgs SERIES/STAND ALONE: 1st Scot HarvathTIME/PLACE: Early 2000's/Utah, Washington, DC, Switzerland CHARACTERS: Scot Harvath/Secret Service Agent FIRST LINES: "Senators" said Fawcett as he strode across the polished floor in his monogrammed Stubbs * Wooton opera slippers.
Don't usually like political thrillers but enjoyed this one & will most likely read on in the series.
Scot Harvath is on duty w/ the president and his daughter on a ski trip in Utah.
An avalanche occurs and the president is kidnapped.
Many of Scott's Secret Service team have been lost.
Harvath had it all - or he ought to except the author either deliberately wanted his MC to be more of a regular joe than the superhero Mitch Rapp or he wasn't aware that Harvath was struggling to stay on top of things.I spent most of the time worrying about Harvath like a motherhen and wanting to tell him to find another line of work.
There are books I can listen to where, even if I did not like the story, the writing still flowed smoothly.
Being a fan of Tom Clancy's Jack Ryan series and Vince Flynn's Mitch Rapp series, I finally decided to give Brad Thor a shot, and for my first book of his I didn't come back disappointed!In The Lions of Lucerne, the US President is on vacation on the snow-covered slopes of Utah, and while skiing, the President and his Secret Service team are ambushed by a group of highly-trained Hitmen, who wipe out the Secret Service agents, and kidnap the President, only one SS agent has survived the ambush, ex-Navy SEAL Scot Harvath.
This book shows why I first became hooked on Brad Thor novels; it's fast paced, alternately tense, with a wise cracking tough guy character truly different from most series technothrillers.
He does not desire to clear his name, but rather, he realizes he must uphold the oath he swore to protect the President, and that the only way to do it is to find and free him.Great character, amazing action, and Thor's extensive knowledge of European travel allows Harvath to change countries believably and fluidly.
Great tale, and one of the best written first novels I have read.
I did not read this novel completely by choice.
I got caught in a long-wait situation without a book--it can only happen when I’m using someone else’s car--so I ducked into a used bookstore.
That meant buying a standalone or the first in a series, because I already own the next book in line of any series I enjoy.
The worst example has the narrative explain how the hero studies the faces in any public place he enters, and the scene closes with someone he has reason to be suspicious of leaving the room unnoticed with his sabotage complete.
Very thrilling and page turning read. I will read other books of this author.
If I wasn't in a public place when I finally killed it, I would have screamed with exasperation at how horrible it was.
The main problem is with the entire second half of the book when the main character is on the run.
There wasn't a good line in the entire book.
Anyway, this was not a good book, but it was OK long enough for me to be forced to finish it.
I was really hoping I had found an author who I could read their entire catalog.
Movies with never-ending action sequences bore me to tears.
Books with never-ending random action don't improve the situation.The book looses focus.
And then there is the ending.
More like a Columbo or Murder She Wrote ending where far too much detail is held back and then thrown at you in the final chapter.
I wasn't too thrilled with the political stuff either.Thor's description of Mormons (being raised as one) is seriously flawed.
Obviously he tried to pick up a bit of Mormon trivia, but unfortunately it was seriously inaccurate.
And the subject matter he had him "preach" about was a total farce.
This is his first novel with recurring character Scot Harvath.
This is not possible with this book, I keep saying to myself "okay at the end of the chapter it's time to turn out the light" but when I get to the end I always want to keep going.
So I inevitably turn out the light when my Kindle slams into my face because I've fallen asleep while holding the book.While some of the situations Harvath finds himself in are a bit over-the-top it does not take away from the overall storyline.I highly recommend this novel.
This was one heck of a good read.
Scott Harvath, a Secret Service Agent is part of the detail that is protecting the President and his daughter while on a skiing vacation in Utah.
A conspiracy at the highest levels of government causes the skiing party to be ambushed and only Harvath, the President and his daughter survive the assault.
However, the President has been kidnapped and the remainder of the book deals with Harvath's crusade to avenge his fallen comrades and recover the President alive.
How he goes about that makes for interesting and page turning reading.
I just found Brad Thor and I love his books.
His hero is Scot Horvath former Navy Seal, Secret Service, CIA and Homeland Security agent.
I'm not sure who he works for now but the adventures and excitment just keep on coming.
The Lions of Lucerne is his first book about Scot.
In this book he is on the president's detail.
They are on vacation in Utah skiing with the president and his daughter.
All the agents are killed and the president is kidnapped.
Only Scot and the president's daughter survive the attack.
It was so exciting and I was unable to put it down.
This author really "gets" the current political clime vis-a-vis certain "religions of peace" and their suicidal war against western civilization. Thor's no-holds-barred anti-PC books are excellent if you like a quick paced taught thriller that you won't be able to put down until you've finished reading. "Lions of Lucerne" is the book that started it all, and it's always fun to crack open the next Scott Harvath novel because I know I'll be in for a great ride!
Well written, adrenalin filled novel featuring agent Scot Harvath with a very good ending. 9 of 10 stars
4.5 Stars. This is a big book in so many ways and does a good job of introducing the main character to the series, Scot Horvath. By the end of the book we know him very well, what makes him tick and his key strengths, but whatever you do don't point a gun, a knife or even a finger at him - you will regret it! An interesting theme is set up in this book with the kidnapping of the American President and Scot sets about finding the President to bring him home. Thoroughly recommended.
Instead of locking him down based on suspicions of being in cahoots with those that kidnapped the president, he manages to escape to Europe after further getting the assaulted by mercenary hit men trying to kill him.
Somehow Agent Harvath manages to escape this insane situation that he put himself into with only a grazing gunshot wound.
While this occurs Agent Harvath, who should probably be moving a little bit slower, manages to get a near case of hypothermia when the Lions try to take him out and he goes for a swim in a Swiss river, and scales several thousand feet of vertical elevation.
THE LIONS OF LUCERNE is a highly ambitious debut novel; deftly crafted in a technical sense, but with next to no literary value.It's what I call a "dumb smart thriller," meaning that it is incredibly detailed and well researched, yet plagued with childish prose and characters that continually say and do stupid and/or unrealistic things.Perhaps the editor is partially to blame.
Brad Thor is by no means an economical writer, and LIONS could easily shed 50 pages simply by cutting out any unnecessary/pointless words.
Once former SEAL Horvath disobeys (of course) doctor's orders and starts doing his own investigation instead of letting the various agencies do their jobs, the daughter isn't mentioned again until toward the end of the book.There's a (beautiful, of course) Swiss female agent trying to track down a shipment of stolen weapons, and we just know their paths are going to cross, because the guy she really wants to question is the same bad guy who engineered the kidnapping.
My first exposure to Mr. Thor's Scot character and - wow, what a ride!Action-packed and continuously moving, our intrepid hero is above average smart and resilient. Tasked as main bodyguard to the President's daughter, he goes from hero to scapegoat in a small matter of time.His travels take him to Switzerland, where he meets a beautiful and smart intelligence officer.These escapades remind me of some 70's men's adventure novels, similar to Don Pendleton's "The Executioner" series.
3.5 StarsI'm still looking for a good substitute for the late Vince Flynn's Mitch Rapp Series.Brad Thor's Scot Harvath Series comes very close.
But that usually is the case for the beginning of a series, especially a new author which Thor was at the time he wrote Lions.
And the story line could have been ripped from the Headlines.The President and his daughter are in Park City, UT skiing.
Secret Service Agent Scot Harvath is point man advancing the ski resort.
Scot Harvath doesn't believe it, because to accomplish the kidnapping FARC would need to know moutain climbing, ski skills, and other extreme cold climate techniques.
The Lions of LucerneBrad ThorEnter a new player to my reading; Scot Harvath, the hero of this suspense novel series.
Trained and served with Seal Team 2, now assigned as Secret Service to protect the president.
If you like the John Wells Series by Alex Berensen or the Mitch Rapp Series by Vince Flynn, you will love Scot Harvath and the series that Brad Thor has created.
This is Brad Thor’s first book of Scot Harvath.
Scot, a Secret Service Agent, is in charge of the protection of the president and his daughter on a weekend ski trip in Utah.
