https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/282282.Skip_Beat_Vol_01
I was worried to pick this up because I tend to not love the popular series.
I want my romance done right, with tension, and a good female lead.
She vows revenge, enters showbiz through hilarious means, and runs into the sexiest man in showbiz, Ren Tsuruga.
The main love interest, Ren, makes fun of his cliche as the childhood friend that Kyoko doesn't realize he is.
We see him fall in love with her first.
And Ren needs to earn her love and respect 100x over and that means revealing dark secrets.
Sneeze once and you are being praised, twice and you are being criticized, three times and you are being laughed at (or admired or scolded), and four times means you will catch a cold.”Also, “Straw doll: In Japan straw dolls can be used, much like voodoo dolls, to put a curse on someone”, And, “The hand coming from Kyoko’s throat: In Japanese, there’s an expression ‘to want so much that a hand comes out of the throat.’ This is a visual representation of that expression”I came across this book by chance as a recent Goodreads’ friend had this as his favourite book.
Manga is something that I like reading again and again; Skip Beat!
If you read manga a lot, you know what I'm talking about.
I love this girl!" No. He says to himself, "I shouldn't like her just because of my memories with her." It's only when he starts getting to know her as the person that she is now that he lets himself treasure her.
As for the main character (spoiler), Kyoko, she doesn't even know she likes him yet—yes, not even in the currently-being-released Japanese chapters.
It's not like a super-prudish series that you shouldn't read because there's absolutely no romance.
when after a few pages you think you know where that shit is going?
That’s what this little manga did to me!
it all start with this girl Kyoko, you get drop in what you think is going to be a romance story.
And that’s when that little manga turned into something beautiful!!
this is a psycho bitch revenge story!!!
But since when what psycho bitches do makes sense?) and its just mad fun for there on!
Maybe I’m reading between the lines… or reading more than what there actually is to it… but this is one sick little manga!
Don't judge a book by it's cover. The cover of this book looks all girly right? Wrong. Maybe guys don't like these kind of books, but some girls look at the cover and go, "urgh". I love this series. Th girl on the cover is named Kyoko. She's a sweet, naive and funny character. She's clueless about love, but still awesome. I couldn't stop reading and the artwork is great. It's one of my favorite manga series. I would recommend it to everyone!
I haven't finished this series completely yet. But I am thinking of going back to re-read this one.
And Sho, he is the villain who very villain -like, but yet, as the series goes on, proves that he is capable of feeling human.
Actually I find his character intensely interesting just like Kyoko's and Ren's.
I think it's amazing watching her transform and grow each time.
Everything else!Anyway, I'm writing this particular review (since I've done one already on another of the volumes) is because recently I just started watching the live action Taiwanese adaption.
Sho no cree que Kyoto sea capaz de lograr nada, la menosprecia por completo pero Kyoko es dura de roer.Me encanta Kyoko, sus métodos de hacer las cosas, su exageración, su sinceridad y su obstinación.
Puede ser la chica más dulce del mundo pero también un auténtico diablo dispuesto a todo por conseguir lo que desea.
Sin duda alguna me quedo con este momento, me lo pasé genial:Ah y por supuesto adoro todas y cada una de las ocurrencias de Kyoko porque es un personaje totalmente original y diferente a la par que divertido.
Now Kyoko is out for revenge, and won't stop until she manages to make it in the entertainment world herself...
and surpass Sho!~*~*~*~*~*~I grabbed the second volume on my last run to the comic store, so I've been picking this up and reading a few chapters a bit at a time over the last few days, working towards book 2.
Some people might not like the characters, either - the manga is more humorous in nature, and Kyoko's behavior is quite exaggerated to accent/create this.
It's over-the-top and a little ridiculous at times, but still entertaining.
Also she does not break into showbiz right away, which is a reality relief for shojo manga.
I know that I find it slightly laughable that when ever a girl wants to break into showbiz in a manga, suddenly in the second book she’s on her way to be a star.
Not only that but she has sworn to never love again, so I can be happy to know that I won’t be seeing any sappy love parts in the middle of her trying to get revenge.
It won’t be they see each other and fall in love.
Great manga!
Fun, playful, with humor and a twisted edge!
Kyoko is a fun protagonist as she sets down a path of revenge against a guy who took advantage of her.
But I love Kyoko's determination and spirit.
However the weird hand wisps out of the mouth and even (on a smaller scale) the little grudges are a bit annoying.
But I cannot help but love the story more.
The characters are rich, original and well portrayed.
I really liked the artwork for each character.
The president of the showbiz company she auditions with is a bit...out there.
3/5 stars.I've seen a few episodes of the anime so this volume wasn't anything special, I knew what was going to happen. I've heard this manga series is one of the best, so I'm going to read more soon!
My guilty pleasure. Do I have to give up my man club card now?
Now that he has become famous however, Kyoko is learning some new things about their relationship and soon has a strong motivation to want to join showbiz herself, though everyone believes her to be "too plain" for it.
I love that instead of being the more typical shojo heroine of mangas I have read, she has a dark, bitter side.
This is a main character who is funny, dark, sad, determined, and cute all in one.
It's pace is perfect, not too slow and not too fast, setting up the motivation of the plot right away.
I watched the anime and i loved it! so I'm gonna read the manga. I love kyoko❤
3.5Story was interesting, but art wasn't my style.
5 StarsAfter devoting your whole life to your so-called boyfriend, leaving everything you knew behind to follow him to an unknown city,living in an expensive apartment and having to work two to three jobs just to pay the rent when he’s never even home or care about your existence, who wouldn’t want to have a little bit of revenge?
Good God, I was stupid for doing that… You know those books or short stories that you think you got all figured out?
Those moments while you’re reading and you’re just thinking you know what’s about to go down?
She practically went Kill Bill on this guy.
And there was bore a psycho rampage revenge story.
I assume it becomes more interesting.Kyoko starts out as your stereotypical shoujo manga girl.
Once Sho becomes popular, he drops boring Kyoko like a hot potato.
Kyoko may learn to balance her personality, but I'm guessing she'll always have a fun edge to her.I can't really get an opinion on this volume because I'm not invested in the characters yet.
I like Kyoko.
If I hadn't heard so many good things about this series, I don't know that the first volume would have been enough to keep me invested.
Sacrificed your life to support your so-called boyfriend, but it turned out that he wasn’t your prince charming after all.  Who doesn't love a little sweet revenge for that? Cover:Not really fan of the cover. Hope they make it more eye catching.Plot:The major part of the story is Kyoko's efforts to become a big star in order to beat Sho. Strange and funny way of revenge as it is but still, it caught my attention. Characters:Undecided . . .Artwork:Average and neat but overcrowded per page.Verdict
Hope they make it more eye catching.Plot:The major part of the story is Kyoko's efforts to become a big star in order to beat Sho. Strange and funny way of revenge as it is but still, it caught my attention.
. .Artwork:Average and neat but overcrowded per page.Verdict:Well polished but not impressive.
The paneling is a bit confusing at times, due to the crowdedness of pages.
Lots of dialogue, screaming, sound effects, and background commentary fill every page.
But the storyline is interesting; I really want to see Kyoko as a star and their inescapable love triangle.
This story follows a girl named Kyoko Mogami, who works her butt off for her childhood friend, and famous superstar, Shotaro, so he can live the life of a rockstar.
Kyoko Mogami is a strong country girl trying to make her way in the big city- while holding up a superstar- her childhood friend.
I love how instead of crying and being weak, she plots revenge against him!
She's hilarious, caring, and an easy character to fall in love with!I absolutely LOVE LOVE LOVE this series, and I wish the anime continued!
I will continue reading this series to the end!
Literally every time I pick up this manga, it makes me want to meet a perfect (beautiful) stranger, have him rip my heart out of my chest and crush me utterly before I go an audition for the movies in Hollywood and miraculously become the best actress of my generation and get involved with a more stoic and kind hearted Christian bale who I met when I was a child and just never reveals the deep love he has for me. And then it ends. And it doesn't get translated for 5 months. Awesome
I admire Kyoko's strength, but Sho, Sho's a bastard.
I read this once before and wasn't very into it...for some reason this time it was super hilarious and upsetting! I would like to read more!
THIS IS A SERIES REVIEW PLZ DON'T KICK THE SPOILERS BOTTOM UNLESS YOU'VE READ UP TO CHAPTER 231 I DON'T WANT TO SPOIL YOUYou can also read the same review  on my blogOnce upon a time, there was a innocent girl who love her childhood friend so much that she left her dream (being a normal high school student) behind and went to Tokyo support his dream (of being a musician)One day, her life changed completely.One day, she overheard her childhood friend telling his manager that he saw her nothing more than a maid.
Me gustó este tomo que la vez anterior. Kyoko es tan graciosa, me gusta sus demonios internos también 😂

I'd forgotten how much the art had changed from the first volume.
I prefer the later version of Kyoko, Ren, and Sho it's much more neat and modern.
I've always felt bad for Kyoko.
I hope Kyoko eventually gets her revenge on him!Edit:Things I liked:Kyoko's over emotions.
So funny.I love her little demonsI like her new do and styleKyoko's employers.
So kind.Things I didn't like:Art. Just not my type.
The characters look ugly compared to the later volumes.
He is an as*Ren. He is also an as* But not as much as Shou.People I felt sorry for:Chief Sawara.Kyoko
I need another 200 more chapters of this (Currently 221 chapters are out).The best thing of this IS NOT A HIGH SCHOOL ROMANCE.EditI'm re reading because the last chapter is too much. This manga is so damn good. And it feels it will go on for a long time, it's a complete torture to wait for a chapter every month. TORTURE. Currently on chapter 224.
So. Shouju.Well, don't judge a book by it's cover, eh?---4/11/2012Oh gosh, I don't think I'm going to actually finish this. It's not that it's boring, it's just not really interesting either.
Sanırım bir daha shoujo manga okumaya çalışmayacağım. Harcadığım vakti geçtim kendimi devam etmeye zorlamak resmen işkence. (Sadece bu manga için değil, shoujoların geneli için böyle düşünüyorum.)
