https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/903093.Growing_Up_Absurd
On our road to personal peace - as well as a wider, more pervasive humanity - if we don't have some kind of transcendent hope, we may not make it to our journey's end.We need to keep our dreams intact.Paul Goodman wrote this symptomatic classic in 1960, and it is still valid - though it's now a vapid, well-worn theme.

Goodman essentially talks about how to try to solve the problem of youth as it was in use 60s.
The books talks about class structure, the aptitude of youth, use of leisure, capitalism, growing up of course, society, the labour market, city lifer vs country life, the responsible man, the rat race.
It's marginally sexist in places and I don't agree with goodman views on sexual stuff but I have to admit this is one of the best books I have read in a while.
"The organisation butts in everywhere, and sets the high style of how things are done.
Parts of this are still compelling -- and still apply! -- but other bits are really marred by Goodman's major blind spot, his sexism. Nonetheless -- as an interpretation of why America is such a weird, sad, difficult place to grow up, sometimes, despite all the good things we have going for us, this is worth reading.
Goodman had some interesting quasi-anarchist political ideas, but his anecdotal/speculative approach leaves a lot to be desired, and the pervasive patronizing misogyny is appalling even by last century’s standards.
Paul Goodman's impressive verbal facility that he is capable of expanding into a book a theme which could be dealt with sufficiently in an essay of not inordinate length."The thesis of Growing Up Absurd ...
in short, the things our society honors are not worth growing up to.
in spite of the pessimistic tone of the book, Goodman is encouraged and heartened by the expression of ""fraternity, animality and sexuality"" he sees in delinquent behavior, the Beat and the Angry Young Men.
Basically, Goodman was commissioned to write a study of "juvenile delinquency," and used it as an occasion for indicting American society's failure to provide anything better for youth to grow up into.
His term for the new form of American life in the 50s is "the organized system." His critique of its failure to provide meaningful activity, some compelling role for young people to grow into, also serve him as a framework for interpreting the Beat movement -- on p.
The New York Review of Books edition I read also has a preface by Casey Blake and an afterword by Susan Sontag, both marvelous.
He is not a Marxist attacking capitalism and a government that helps it and its beneficiaries (though he kind of its), he is in the old of a traditional reformer going after the problems in modern society, the media and pop culture being strong examples of this.The problem, as most people have noticed who read the book today, is that Goodman explicitly only addresses young men.
Goodman's seriousness and energy still sparkle from underneath the book's layers of anachronism, some of which go all the way to the bone (the most egregious example is the consistent use of the word "manly" as a lazy-even-for-then, reactionary-now synonym for multiple human potentials and positives that have little or nothing to do with gender-- the book was written in the late '50s and published in 1960). Extra 1/2 for good context by Casey Nelson Blake and Susan Sontag.
On the whole, the argument is annoyingly reactionary, but Goodman makes a number of critical points about the repressive nature of mass culture in America. Despite the, at the core of it, weirdly conservative origins, there was enough truth and valid commentary to keep me wrapped up, and indeed entertained over the course of the book.
Even in the late 90s/early 00s this book helped me make sense of my relation to (and at odds with) the larger world. I wanted to give this book to everyone I cared about, and copied long passages of it out in a notebook so that I could better remember the things I had leaned. A tremendous book.
Those are the Malays that lacks the necessary capitals to win scholarships or business grants, the rural Indians who eventually inhabited the city slums, the migrant workers who now form the backbone of the proletariat, the ever-neglected Orang Asli (the aborigines) and other marginal groups not favored by the official policy, or simply ignored/oppressed due to blatant corruption.Like 1950s America, Malaysia's economic growth indeed increases the standard of living for many of its citizens, but at the cost of solidifying structural imbalances.
In the same way, Malaysia could do better with the return to the old 'kampung' (village) spirit that shaped the Malays way of life, instead of this half-baked urbanization that drives Malaysians to crazed consumerism.
As Nelson's new introduction points out, it is of a piece with other radical critiques that remain rooted in hope for premodern virtues (one thinks of Kit Lasch): it would be a mistake to think of this book as reactionary, but it's certainly true that Goodman's ideal world appears to be the Gemeinschaft of the early modern village, stripped of its sexual repressions and social rigidities.First, in certain respects it remains shockingly timely, in its explanation of the way that society's strictures produce the alienation that leads to juvenile delinquencies.
Meanwhile, the promises of political liberalism go unfulfilled, income inequality swells, and the big TV networks (remember, this is 1960) churn out monotonous programming instead of real art.
Goodman expresses his desire for politicians who fulfill liberalism and redirect resources to help the needy, but he does not spell out how such programs would work.
Similarly, Goodman wants the networks to stop producing TV and only distribute independent artists' work, but he does not explain how this revamped market would operate.
I do think Goodman is onto something when he challenges parents to attack corporate and political b.s., teach their kids to value idealistic politics, and give their kids independence, instead of policing kids' every move.
His argument boils down to the idea that American society has become so weird and organized, that stupid and futile rejection of the ready-made options that young people have is only a reasonable reaction.
Thirdly, this book serves as an awesome antidote to all those people who say that everything worked well in the olden days; because Goodman argues that things worked better when schools had a limited impact on society and society was less organized and less classed; and because this was more than half a century ago.
Finally, it is awesome to see how many of his arguments were prescient and can be applied to those who reject schools today.A lot of fun.
He has some interesting and possibly good ideas on many things; how to approach the problem of juvenile delinquency, how to keep kids from growing up afraid of their own sexuality, how to keep workers feeling fulfilled in their jobs, how to attack poverty without attacking the poor.
I also can’t get over that almost immediately when you start this book, Goodman tells you the problems he is writing about pertain to men specifically.
*Face palm* So yeah, 3/5 for being sexist but also trying to give it some credit for the ideas and writing style.
Goodman was a brilliant thinker and this is a very insightful book.
It great on several levels, to the in depth analysis of The Beat Generation to the social criticism about the career culture that still persists today.
If you can look beyond the sexism, which is a problem, you'll absolutely take something from this book.
Susan Sontag, in her essay on Goodman addresses this and her reasons for forgiving it.
I think ultimately despite being so forward looking he was ultimately still man very much locked in his age and the sensibilities of that age and I think that his legacy has paid something for that.
Even though it was written over 50 years ago, it still feels like there are topics that maintain relevance today with today's youth. A worthwhile read for anyone trying to piece together the lack of progress in American society and education in developing it's young boys into proper men. This book offers the reader a set of patterns from the history that we still have not fully overcome as a collective and may well help to properly inform from where modern society has developed.
This book was a big deal by the time I entered high school, but I only got around to it while visiting an older friend in Chicago during the senior year. I read his copy while staying at his apartment and wasn't much impressed as Goodman seemed to be stating the obvious with a rather condescending attitude.
This is truly a brilliant book! Paul Goodman is one of the most original thinkers I have ever encountered. I recommend this book to anyone who struggles with the repressiveness of the Organized Society we live in.
Some of the connections Goodman made felt contrived, but the overall concept of the book and its attempt to tackle such monstrous topics presented to (primarily) youth was done in a very efficient, engaging, and accessible way.
http://www.full-stop.net/2012/10/17/r...Review by Michael Fisher“In every day’s newspaper there are stories about the two subjects I have brought together in this book, the disgrace of the Organized System of semimonopolies, government, advertisers, etc., and the disaffection of the growing generation.” So begins Growing up Absurd, Paul Goodman’s massively influential 1960 report on “the problems of youth in the Organized Society.” Polemics often don’t age gracefully, and there are certainly some aspects of Growing up Absurd that we should be happy to leave in the mid 20th century; but on the whole the book remains remarkably prescient on the issues facing young people today.
I read it in the new light of Jonathan Lee's excellent documentary Paul Goodman Changed My Life, which was particularly revelatory for me on the whole question of Goodman's second marriage and sexuality; essentially, Lee shows us a man locked into the patriarchal standard of marriage as a refuge from public life, where his wife is a help-mate and the intellectual is on the make in an agora, or shopping place for young men, whom he can seduce, and sophisticate to the act of making society.
The whole thing needs a new re-reading as Goodman's sexual politics becomes increasingly recherche.
Took my time rereading this book for the first time since 2001--surprised to discover how much of it still resonates so mightily with me.
I'm the better for having read this when I was younger, but I'm also grateful that I took the time to piece my way through it again over many months In my late 30s.
More surprising, though, is how much I strongly agree with-- how much of this book resonates 55 years after it was published, in a different world entirely.
This book is absolutely huge to me and I'm very glad to say that nearly 15 years after I read it the first time, it remains so.
Maybe I just wasn't in the mood. Or maybe the argument is obvious and/or dated. Undoubtedly, and sadly still relevant (this was written in 1959-60), but the Occupy movement has trumpeted so many of these ideas, that the book seems less essential now. Or maybe it's more essential, I don't know....But I ended up skimming a good deal and will probably come back to this again some day.
It took me several years to actually finish the book in its entirety. At first, it seemed as though all my hidden thoughts were being said. It turns out to be a very deep book that probably flew over my head at points. The book is modern, and is dated in some regards, but I urge anyone to keep reading through the end. I particularly enjoyed 'The Missing Community' chapter.
i revisited this great work in essay for the awl:https://www.theawl.com/2017/01/should...about the only reworking this book needs is a deemphasizing of all of goodman's numerous and at-times-creepy references to "boys" and "men" in favor of something gender-irrelevant
A reminder that every so often a generation worries about an upcoming generation."The kids have no future," they cry. Then it all works out eventually, until the cycle of time wheels back around and once again the cry is heard, "the kids have no future."
Maybe high school isn't all it's cracked up to be. In fact, maybe it's a travesty. A book that doesn't seem, from what I know of it, to have lost any of its relevance over time.
sexist, but informative and fresh. plan on rereading sometime soon.
