https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/5135.Point_Counter_Point
Despite cynical and fun-making elements, Huxley allows his characters to formulate a series of profound and serious ideas, amongst them being:(a) Why do people bother with worrying about liberty, democracy and politics, when they should just get on with living their lives (b) It is easier to live the life of the intellectual, to live in a world purely of ideas, than it is to succeed in the art of life – to be on good terms with your colleagues, friends, spouse and children.
Or possibly indulging in one of those orgies (although, says Huxley, wickedness becomes as routine and uninteresting as anything else after a while).So many little ideas, compared with Brave New World, which has one huge, overarching notion that there must be more to life than the simple pursuit of pleasure, or even happiness.
To this day, Aldous Huxley's "Point Counter Point" remains my favourite novel.
The deepest corners of human nature -- that's where he goes, and that's where I haven't seen anyone else being able to.The novel doesn't have a front-to-back storyline, a precise plot, or a main character.
The incredibly beautiful and superficial woman, the rough military leader with a soft spot, the cynical and politically involved, the rich, the one who despises the rich but secretly envies them -- name it, and you've got it there.
That is a brief, if incomplete, summary of Aldous Huxley's novel, Point Counter Point.It is more broadly a "novel of ideas" with a novelist of ideas, Philip Quarles, at its center.
Just as Philip decides to structure his novel on the contrapuntal techniques of music (think Bach and Beethoven) the novel Huxley has written is structured in the same way.
The remainder of the novel intersperses scenes from their lives, letters from lovers and most interesting, the writings of Philip Quarles, who with his wife spends most of the first half of the novel returning from India and who is the closest to a protagonist that we get.
Counterpoint can't exist without a point.
The opposites need each other.“The industrialists who purvey standardized ready-made amusements to the masses are doing their best to make you as much of a mechanical imbecile in your leisure as in your hours of work.
Make the effort of being human.”That's an exact description of the today pop culture.“I wanted to change the world.
But I have found that the only thing one can be sure of changing is oneself.”Some persons try to be a part of the universal harmony and some want to become a counterpoint and some are just tone-deaf.
A phrase like "novel of ideas" sounds so ponderous and leaden-- you'll not find many who liked The Magic Mountain as much as I did, but I'll readily admit it was tough going-- but Huxley proves that a novel of ideas can be on the contrary, witty, playful, and as bitchy as a gin-sodden Truman Capote.
People want to drown their realization of the difficulties of living properly in this grotesque contemporary world, they want to forget their own deplorable inefficiency as artists in life."You got me, Aldous, you got me.
Point Counter Point (1928) is the third Huxley novel I have read in close succession, following Crome Yellow (1921) and Eyeless in Gaza (1936).
Hence the real, the congenital novelists don’t write such books, but then I never pretended to be a congenital novelist.The specimens of the ideas-ridden .01% of the human race with whom Huxley presents us in this novel are often highly entertaining.
I also liked the sketch of the sensual, cynical, lionized elderly ego-monster of an artist, John Bidlake, supposedly based on Augustus John.Huxley’s characters are distinctly of their volatile historical moment—that’s part of the novel’s fascination—and yet the ideas and life philosophies and political theories they spin for themselves are not lacking in relevance for our own times.
Aldous Huxley’in “Ses Sese Karşı” başlıklı romanı, yazarın çok bilinen distopik eseri “Cesur Yeni Dünya" ve ondan biraz daha az bilinen ütopyası “Ada”dan çok farklı.
Roman kişilerinin teker teker seriminin yapıldığı kitabın ilk yarısında, bu kurguda bir başkahraman olmadığını, yazarın öne çıkardığı 10 küsür karaktere de bilinçli olarak eşit mesafede durduğunu kavradıktan sonra ise eşsiz bir edebiyat şöleni ile başlıyor.
Bir müzik parçasında çeşitli ezgiler kaynaştığı gibi; Ses Sese Karşı’da da birbirleriyle kaynaşan, çeşitli kişiler, çeşitli görüşler, çeşitli durumlar bulunur.”Kendisi de bir İngiliz seçkini olan Huxley, bu romanına yazarlar, ressamlar, yayıncılar, bilim adamları, sosyalistler, faşistler ekleyerek , onların seslerini yanyana koyarak, çarpıştırarak kendi çağını anlatmış.
Bu açıdan bu roman çok sesli bir düşünce romanı.
Huxley is quite the literary enigma.
He is the progenitor of a style of expression that is thoroughly unique and exhaustive in its presentation of the matter at hand and this itself prevents any form of imitation by other lesser competent literary mortals.
Over indulgence is undeniably his most persistent arch nemesis and it befuddles the authors best efforts in quite a lot of his creations and is well demonstrated here in PCP.
Social criticism is thus an aphrodisiac which Huxley cannot quite forego and yet he is seduced into excesses such as PCP and the drab Those Barren Leaves from which he just cannot liberate himself.
Por esta razón la novela se lee muy fácil, no hay ningún "entre líneas", está todo explicado.Otro punto sobresaltante del libro es su lado satírico.
Con frecuencia los escritores usan los prototipos para sus personajes pero por lo general los disimulan, Huxley lo hace abiertamente para que los lectores reconozcan a las personalidades de su novela, la tarea que no era difícil para un contemporario de los años 20 en Britania, obviamente tomando en cuenta que se trata de los integrantes del circulo literario-editorial.
Parece que burlarse de sus enemigos desde las páginas del libro era un evento común.La década de los 20 es el tiempo de muchos cambios en la literatura.
Point Counter Point, the title says what the book is about - the double bind that humans are in.
"Oh, wearisome condition of humanity, Born under one law, to another bound,…"I read Point Counter Point about ten year ago.
With novels that have a vast cast of characters, I started keeping a folded sheet of paper as a book mark adding all the names of the characters as they are introduced into the story so as to remember who is who, and I started writing down lines, quotes, words, not forgetting the page number!Books like P.
I don't remember too much of the story, I remember the characters and some scenes.
POINT COUNTER POINT. (1928). Aldous Huxley. ***. Well, I read it, but was frustrated in that I didn’t understand what the author was trying to do. I am a big Huxley fan, but this book won’t be included in my list of all-time favorites. First off, there is no plot – at least one that I could find. It reminded me very much of the film, “My Dinner With Andre,” except that this dinner date had about twenty characters in it. It starts out at a musical soiree at the mansion of a very rich couple in Lo
I am a big Huxley fan, but this book won’t be included in my list of all-time favorites.
Next, it’s off to another party, where the conversations and relationships continue to grow and confound the reader.
Readers who were contemporaries of this novel probably were able to recognize the characters, while today, ninety years after, it would be almost impossible.
This plus the fact that there was a lot of shock value in the behavior of the characters in the book probably made this a best seller.
Today, however, unless you get a copy with copious footnotes, the book is severely dated.
Point Counter Point by Aldous HuxleyAnother version of this note and thoughts on other books are available at:- https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list...This is a monumental novel that I must admit to have rejected years ago.How foolish one can be.Aldous Huxley has dazzled me with:- Brave New World, The Doors of Perception and now this masterpiece.It is a complex work, with complicated characters and surprising events...There is even a murder, a few deaths and some love affairs.Astonishing points
Point Counter Point by Aldous HuxleyAnother version of this note and thoughts on other books are ava
I reread Point Counter Point after discovering that Dorothy L. Sayers wittely, intellectually and mostly gently pokes fun at the book and its author in  The Documents in the Case , in the person of John Munting, alias Philip Quarles, alias Aldous Huxley himself (talk of Russian puppets inside puppets!). Of course Aldous Huxley was a pacifist, Sayers quite the contrary; Sayers was a Catholic, be it more of the mind than of the heart, where Huxley tends to some unspecified universal mysticism. Bot
, in the person of John Munting, alias Philip Quarles, alias Aldous Huxley himself (talk of Russian puppets inside puppets!).
". Point Counter Point offers great satirical portraits of D.H. Lawrence, Katherine Mansfield, Lady Ottoline Morell, and Huxley himself.
In this first "novel of ideas" Huxley experiments with an essayistic form of narrative, trying to cramp as many ideas & theories into the book as possible.
When the reader gets rather bored with the non-moving non-plot & the avalanche of philosophical talk, Philip-Quarles-alias-Huxley explains why the book is getting so sadly tedious.
On navodi na visoko intelektualni stil autora, koji je jedan od njegovih zaštitnih znakova.Na roman se može gledati kao na mozaik sastavljen iz suprostavljenih delova koji se savršeno uklapaju u tkanje života, s jedne strane licemerje i lažnu pobožnost Barlapa, a s druge oštar jezik, učenost, i objektivni pogled na svet Rampiona, prezir prema svetu Morisa Spandrela i nasuprot njoj ravnodušnost Filipa Kvorlsa, altera ega samog Hakslija.
Ovde moram napomenuti da je šteta što izraz spandrelovština nije ušao u svet književnosti kao karamazovština, zbog cinizma, jakih neiživljenih osećanja Morisa, prototipa osobe zasićene životom, koji kao da je pobegao iz nekog romana Dostojevskog.
It is a book about the racy nihilism and the upper classes in the jazz age and a 'roman a clef' about the ideas and personalities of the twenties.
I recognized the character of DH Lawrence, and it was interesting to see how highly he was thought of at the time.
The most interesting bit of it for me was the character of Philip Quarles, who resembles me so much he could have been based on me.
It isn't in the same league as books like The Magic Mountain, The Man Without Qualities, Atomized or anything by Dostoyevsky.
Odlučila sam ignorirati činjenicu da se radi o romanu, kao i samu radnju (ako ona kao takva uopće i postoji, jer dobiva se dojam da su sekvence događaja nanizane jedino sa svrhom da se izolirani esejistički zapisi nekako povežu).
Likovi (kojih zaista ima mnogo i nije ih najlakše upamtiti, osobito u početku) iskorišteni su kao sredstva-predstavnici ideja, kao primjeri rastezljivosti granica svega što je ljudsko.Analize i dijalozi su iscrpni i temeljiti, riječi kao da su odvagnute matematičkom preciznošću-pogađaju u srž, cinizam nenametljiv i doziran, tek toliko da začini tekst...jer neke istine trebaju malo cinizma da postanu komične.
This is apparent from the outset, as Huxley shows how Walter Bidlake is torn between obligations he has to his pregnant mistress and his lust for a new lover.
Meanwhile, his pregnant mistress moves from jealous anger to contented sadness in watching her lover give himself to a joyless, lustful affair.
But this is one of those rare books that takes the mask off of the materialistic worldview so pervasive in the modern world.
Es tan pedante, pomposo y pesado que dan ganas de robar un Delorean, viajar al pasado, luego viajar a Londres, esperar a Aldous Huxley en la puerta de su casa y darle un paliza de órdago.
Hasta antes de leerlo, no sabía que se podían escribir diálogos tan petulantes en un libro y encima hacerlo tal que así, completamente en serio, sin ironía de ninguna clase.
A lo mejor es que hay estar empapado en mescalina para encontrarle la gracia al puñetero libro, no sé.
O a lo mejor es que el traductor es un criminal profesional.
A very typical Huxley: fine intellectual discussions, moral dilemma's, and lot's of characters eagerly making their own life miserable. Connotations of satire, some sardonism, and in general blunt pessimism. A very stimulating read, portraying the infertility of intellectual circles.
It's all throughout the book, but the real rapey-charmer is the paramilitary strike-breaker, Webley, who writes this gem of a letter to the lady he fancies:I warn you: one of these days I’ll try the good old methods.
Philip, the character stand-in for Huxley himself, gets irritated that a woman he thinks is hot wants to actually talk to him.
Very bad manners.When he pushes for sex, and she is clear she doesn't want his "pouncing and clawing," Philip leaves her with this lecture: "if you were really and consistently civilized, you'd take steps to make yourself less desirable.
That ending though. Read it so fast I did not even realise it was the end.
He is well aware of his wrongdoings, but oh, he just feels so sorry for himself and his current predicament.
Well, I didn’t feel sorry for him and most certainly, did not like him.Lucy Tantamount is free spirited and sexually promiscuous as well as self indulgent and intellectually lacking.
Another unlikable character.Huxley covers the literary gamut including the have’s and the have not’s, infidelity, alcoholism, cancer, and premature death, but we either don’t know enough about any given character to care or know too much and still don’t care.
I get that this was truly satire, but it just didn’t work for me.
Cada personaje tiene un concepto bajo el cual rige su vida (en ese sentido, todos estos serían "monstruos", como bien dice Huxley, pues no hay nadie que viva así en la vida real).
La entrada a este momento histórico preciso se da sobre la base de la pérdida del "mundo" anterior, de ese periodo histórico en el que los aristócratas vivían con elegancia y solvencia.
Estos, ahora se perciben como seres en decadencia: burgueses con una moral deleznable, apresados bajo las "apariencias" y "encantos" que perduran en una sociedad desencantada.Sin duda alguna, esta novela vale cada palabra escrita (y leída, por supuesto).
This book had some indescribable quality about it that made it completely fascinating, although it was ostensibly about not very much at all.
I found myself thinking about A Handful of Dust while reading the Phillip and Elinor scenes, especially towards the end.
Tragedy and comedy seemed to be inextricable in all these characters' lives, and the political madness of Webley was mirrored in Rampion's worldly lifestyle, Phillip's distant lifestyle, Illidge's working-class rage and even in Elinor's matter-of-fact outlook.
I found this extremely satisfying.I loved this book!
Acum vreo şapte sau opt ani, când am citit pe nerăsuflate Punct Contrapunct şi am trecut-o repede în galeria personală a cărţilor de aur, m-am regăsit în (sau mai bine zis, am aspirat umil să mă asemăn cu) personajul Philip Quarles: un romancier deşirat, osos, cu un simţ al umorului cel puţin discret (ca să fiu gentilă) şi care se lăfăia într-un intelectualism asumat, trecând totul prin filtrul nemilos al creierului dumisale genial.Iată şi pasajul pe care l-am copiat atunci conştiincios şi caligrafic în caiet:O, da.
Philip Quarles eram (sau aş fi vrut foarte tare să fiu) chiar eu!
A truly fantastic book.
While my mind was focused on that, in the evenings and before bed, Huxley exercised the more important parts of my brain.
I can't do the book justice on the grounds that I lack the intelligence to truly convey what Huxley presents in Point Counter Point.
All I can say is that this book is among the best I've ever read, on a whole range of issues.
Delivered with funny and at times absurdist wit, the book never fails to provoke the mind whether in rejection or agreement.
A tortured thing to slog through, it might have been a decent novel if Huxley and his editor (if there was one) had cut certain aimless philosophical discussions between the intellectual men. Huxley wants to argue with himself in public, fine, let him do it in an essay not couched in the trappings of an otherwise entertaining piece of fiction.It is rather a collection of vignets, some of which (like the story of Marjorie, Walter, and Carling) Huxley seems to lose interest in. Of the many melodramas set up in the beginning only one or two reach conclusion.
Razvukla sam je na jedno mesec-dva, pa možda zato i nisam uspela u potpunosti da se stopim s njom...opšti utisak je prosečan, zbog toga trojka.Kad sve sumiram, osim velikog broja likova, totalno različitih, gde je skoro svako u nekom svom svetu (što nas još jednom podseća na to koliko smo svi posebni i jedinstveni), mogu reći i da mi se posebno dopala raznovrsnost međuljudskih odnosa, naročito muško-ženskih. Da ne nabrajam, ko je čitao, znaće o čemu govorim :)
Što bi Huxley imao reči/napisati za današnje društvo, današnje bogataše i današnje intelektualce? Koliko bi se usamljen tek osjećao u našem vremenu? Likovi Kontrapunkta zatvorenici su vlastitog karaktera i ega, bogati intelektualci nezadovoljni životima koje žive, sjajni izvana dok u sebi tragaju za smislom, istinom i Bogom.
For some reason I thought that I haven't finished this novel. Reading it again, I realized that I had finished it. I didn't mind rereading it, thought. I still think that is an excellent novel.
