https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/822751.The_Colonizer_and_the_Colonized
In timeless detail Memmi describes not just the psychologies of the oppressed and the oppressor, but also the predicament of the "leftist" in the oppressing group who at once is attracted to and recoils from the way in which the oppressed tries to liberate themselves, as well as from their end goals, in which they would "likely find no place." Memmi is not just a pontificating observer.
It is best to acknowledge this predicament and offer an appreciation of it, than to simply ignore it and leave one open to accusations of ignorance or foolhardiness.Throughout the book I was able to picture the circumstances he described in multiple settings, from Black Lives Matter to the War on Terror, and they almost always seemed both moving, urgent and relevant.
This is a classic book up there with The Wretched of the Earth by Franz Fanon about colonialism told by a doctor in French-Colonised Algeria during the civil war.
It is not for the weak-stomached as there is description of torture and genocidal tactics used by the French in their failed attempt to crush the uprising against their occupation.
The two portraits - first of the French colonist and second of the colonised Algerian - are incredibly lucid.
Memmi is a contemporary of Frantz Fanon and similarly explores the psychological and social consequences of the colonial relationship on both the colonizer and the colonized.I think the second part of the first chapter, "The colonizer who refuses," would make good reading for financially comfortable folks in the U.S. today (especially whites who consider themselves moderate or liberal types, but don't yet perceive the need for their own involvement in dealing with issues of class or race).
Two chapters: one from the point of view of the colonizer, the other from the colonized.
Totally compelling and beautifully written.It demonstrates the human capacity to regard the life of the slave AND the life of the master.
(Consider my favorite line from the film Bladerunner: "If only you had seen what I have seen with your eyes.") Memmi sees with all eyes and spares us no acid in our wounds.
And yet precisely because he is so even tempered, so evenhanded, the small judgments he does make are not the splashes of pebbles in a pond, but the sound of oceans sucking in cosmic debris.
(what ever that means.)
Memmi's clear thinking on the differences between a colonizer and colonized includes his observations on motives, rewards and behaviours and impacts. It must have made quite an impact in it's day. His arguments seem relevant to any country which is oppressed as well as to many of the current day ex-pats who reside live in developing countries.
"Oppression is the greatest calamity of humanity.
It diverts and pollutes the best energies of man-of oppressed and oppressor alike." As a Tunisian Jew in the French colonial era, Memmi held a unique position in order to reflexively critique the relationship between the colonizer and colonized.
His take on the psychology of the colonizer is that itself is a poisonous position, both for those who accept and those who refuse the role of oppressor.
For those who refuse, Memmi says, any activity to resist is fruitless and they either accept the role or give up and head back to their home country.
The fact that he intended this book to be psychological examination of the parties involved in the colonial relationship, not a revolutionary work, only serves to increase the sense of integrity the author carries.
I will say that, as someone who would self identify as a "colonizer who refuses," it certainly gives a pretty harsh reality check and not a whole lot of immediate hope for my position.
Having said that, this was a crucial starting point in my own journey of deconstructing my colonial identity and history.
I recommend it to anyone who comes from a colonizing community/culture.
Memmi gives general observations on what characterizes the colonized and the colonizer. I thought the first part on the colonizer was a bit repetitive and harder to get thru--but the second section on the colonized is excellent.The characterizations are still highly relevant today.
How topical this book is even now, in a post-colonial time, makes one gasp as recognition sets in as to who are the colonized and who the colonizers in our society; for in any society there are those with privilege and those who are oppressed as it is an intrinsic quality of privilege that it be at another person's expense, sadly no matter how much time has passed or how many countries distant we are from Memmi's native Tunisia the privileged are still the same; men of european descent.
Memmi is a contemporary of Franz Fanon & similarly explores the mentality of the oppressed & the oppressor & it's psychological effects.
The second half of the book is about the mentality of the colonized & what it means to exist in an oppressive society & coming to the realization that revolt is necessary & almost inevitable if not for the buffers that are sycophants & those who cross over into the middle class.
If you have not yet read Fanon, this is a good book to get to as a short introduction from someone of a similar mentality.
Inorder to free himself from colonization, the colonized must start with his oppression, the deficiencies of his group.
In order that his liberation may be complete, he must free himself from those inevitable conditions of his struggle.
A nationalist, because he had to fight for the emergence and dignity of his nation, he must conquer himself and be free in relation to that nation.
He must conquer himself and be free in relation to the religion of his group, which he can retain or reject, but he must stop existing only through it.
En revanche, ce livre m'a appris la leçon d'avoir confiance en mes propres expériences pour obtenir la connaissance vraie et puissante, parce que les idées dans ce grand petit livre n'étaient pas obtenues des autres livres, mais des expériences de Memmi comme un Tunisien.
Cette connaissance est manquée des États-Unis, et ce manque de connaissance fait les evenements dans l'Afrique du Nord, tristement, largement invisible aux américains.
Alors, pour moi, comme une Américaine, ce livre ainsi que les informations francophones ont overt une nouvelle dimension de notre monde en crise.
C'est un livre important pour la compréhension de cette époque-ci.
Albert Memmi was a well-educated Tunisian Jew whose seminal work on the relationship between colonizer and colonized is a projection of his inner turmoil, his own life story.
The strength of this short book lies in Memmi's insights into the dependence of the colonizer on his subjects.
He may oppress and exploit, but he ultimately needs the colonized in order to sustain colonialism, yet such a relationship is not sustainable.
The oppression and exploitation leads to revolt.
History has vindicated Memmi's judgment, as colonialism did indeed collapse, although its structure does survive to some degree in certain places.Memmi also enlightens us the plight of the colonized.

This is the book that became a blueprint for anti-colonial action when it was published in the 1957.
The colonizer denies liberty.
“The more freely he breathes, the more the colonized are choked.” “The colonial situation manufactures colonialists, just as it manufactures the colonized.” Charitable racism is where the colonizer can live benevolently.
But he denies the courage to die.
“Colonization can only disfigure the colonizer…Assimilation is the opposite of colonization…The colonial condition can’t be adjusted to: like an iron collar, it can only be broken.” All colonizers are usurpers… on he went, you get the idea, and so did the colonial governments…
Un livre bouleversant qui dresse un portrait brutal et honnête de la colonisation. Les Québécois s'y retrouveront de façon fappantes dans trop de passages : ''De même, le colonisé ne connaissait plus sa langue que sous la forme d'un parler indigent. Pour sortir du quotidien et de l'affectif les plus élémentaires, il était obligé de s'adresser à la langue du colonisateur. Revenant à un destin autonome et séparé, il retourne aussitôt à sa propre langue. On lui fait remarquer ironiquement que son vocabulaire est limité, sa syntaxe abâtardie...''
The book is still just as relevant today as it was when it was written ages ago.
Some things just don't vanish overnight unfortunately.
It's a great book.
Albert Memmi does a great job in comparing the psyche of the colonized with that of the colonizer, but you're pretty much on your own in terms of freeing your mind.
This is something we all need to do by ourselves.
If you choose to read this book, don't stop at the end of the actual book.
Be sure to read the afterword because it explains a lot!
I highly recommend it to all.
Memmi distills the age-old relationship between the colonizer and the colonized by examining each of their motivations, and the futility of the cycle of colonialism. Although he presents a somewhat dated view, his interpretation of the colonizer - especially of the colonizer who tries to fight colonialism - is profound. While I would have liked to see him give more agency to those colonized, this is a valuable account of colonialism to read with a critical mind.
Only one the best damned books ever written! I find myself thinking about this book when I am at work, downtown, or anywhere. It just seems to pop into my head. It is one of those books that gets memorized with the first read. The Powerbroker is still the book I think about the most, but this one is up there.
The subject of colonialism has rarely been treated more lucidly and devastatingly than in this book. Albert Memmi's characterology of master and servant has a personal as well as a social dimension. The pecking order he describes has its accurate analogues in the lives of all South Africans and many middle-class Americans. I can't speak for others.
Okay. It's a little naive. And it's hardly the most um...data-driven book. But it's got a solid philosophical premise--colonization makes the colonizer and the colonized alike into twisted monsters of themselves. Interesting idea.
It was a bit of a tough read (maybe it's the late 60's French coming through in the translation?)I think he has extremely valid points and his analysis of the colonizers and the colonized are rather profound - even more so for it's time.
One thing i did find strange however is that every single reference was to men (and it's so noticeable, as almost every sentence contains a he or his).
At first I read it with an open mind thinking "Oh, maybe we're just talking about mankind, it might just be a figure of speech even if it is old-fashioned".
Women are almost described as things.
Good or evil, women as personalities in the colonialist drama are largely absent from Memmi's account."The next line after this stuck out to me because I think a lot about the role of women colonizers and the degradation of women of color in the colonial drama."Yet we know that women were agents on both sides of the process of colonization and decolonization, just as we know that the ultimate expression of authority on the part of colonizers, and of liberation on part of the colonized, was the sexual possession of the women of the other."
Memmi splits this book into two distinct section, one focusing on the Colonizer, and one focusing on the Colonized.
There is more of the Hegelian Dialectic evident in this book.
To me, the quote that stuck out the most, the quote that could sum up the book would be found on page 83: "The point is that the colonized means little to the Colonizer."However, I rated it three stars due to the fact that, while the premise of the text is easy to get, the delivery is heady and at times tedious to get through.
"The books talk to him of a world in which no way reminds him of his own; the little boy is called Toto and the little girl, Marie; and on winter evenings Marie and Toto walk home along snow-covered paths.."
Life changing, eye-opener, and kind of "what do we go from here?"After reading this book, I cant see the world the same way.Especially being from a colonized country and being from the political left, you feel confronted to see your own involvement in the oppression of the colonized people.
Life changing, eye-opener, and kind of "what do we go from here?"After reading this book, I can´t see the world the same way.Especially being from a colonized country and being from the political left, you feel confronted to see your own involvement in the oppression of the colonized people.
A crucial read for those interested in postcolonial studies. So many passages of this book still resonate today, and it's almost frightening how relevant some of Memmi's points are to the current political climate, not only internationally but also domestically.
Eye opening book. Albert Memmi's internal battle of figuring out who he is as a person is very much relatable to many, many people.
a truly great and enlightening read
Memmi met en page toutes les réflexions et les accusations que je me suis faites, je regrette simplement qu’il n’y ai pas plus de texte ciblant chaque nation colonisatrice individuellement.
