https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/567667.Walking_on_Glass
It is connected to the human spirit, and we are told that hope is what allows that spirit to rise above those things that would destroy us.
Could it be that the human spirit is actually found in the antithesis of hope?I think it is.
Hope is worse than futile; it actually works against actions that are necessary to overcome obstacles.
They will combat their despair – knowing they have nothing to lose and any change will be significant – or they will die.This is hidden within the stories of Graham Park, Steven Grout and Quiss, which make up Banks’ Walking on Glass.
Y por último tenemos a Quiss y Ajayi, un hombre y una mujer, respectivamente, ya mayores, que están encerrados en un extraño castillo, algunas de cuyas paredes son de cristal, detrás de las cuáles hay peces luminiscentes, y donde pasan los días jugando a estrambóticos juegos de mesa con el fin de poder obtener la opción de responder a un acertijo, y así poder salir libres.A lo largo de los diferentes capítulos, asistiremos tanto a los recuerdos previos de Graham para saber cómo ha llegado a enamorarse de Sarah, y de cómo es su amistad con el excéntrico de su amigo Slater; así como también profundizaremos en la particular mentalidad de Grout, y en los entresijos del castillo donde están Quiss y Ajayi.
My first introduction to Banks.The book follows three separate story lines:Graham Park who is in love with a girl who he meets at a party.Steven Grout a paranoid road mender.Quiss, an imprisoned war criminal.All three seemed to be completely separate, but Banks wonderfully weaves them together.Highly enjoyable, I need to read more from this author.
The first is not more than so-so.I did however like the hero's encounter with the irritating little imp.
He wants to know how to get out of the labyrinth, and the imp says that it either tells the truth all the time, or lies all the time.
The hero can't be bothered to construct the question that solves this tired old logical conundrum, and grabs the imp by the throat.
"Tell me the way out," he says to it, "or I will throw you into this cauldron!" The imp is shocked by his blatant disregard for the rules of the game, but grudgingly acquiesces.
It took a while to get into this book initially, and particularly the story of Quiss, which is over the top in its description of a science fiction setting, was difficult to get into at times.
Still, as the three stories overlap one another, the reader finds themselves exploring the endless possibilities of what things actually mean, what is real and what is illusion, and 'Walking on Glass' does make for a fascinating read.
I can only suggest you read this book for yourself, and draw your own, but it's very much worth doing so - the possibilities are endless.
It would be easy to dismiss Walking on Glass as three separate stories that are destined to collide, but in doing so one would negate the true symbiotic and symbolic facets that flow through the narrative.
As he walks to meet her at her flat the story charts how Park met Sarah.
Walking on Glass is a story of manipulation and isolation.
It is a tale that challenges and teases human frailty; its characters trapped by their own sense of perplexity and weakness.
To be in love, to understand what it would be like to believe there are tormentors out to get you, or to be frustrated with trying to learn a game just so you can try to solve an impossible riddle.Towards the end of the book there were times that the suffering was so intense that I felt physical pain and could not stop reading for fear that the pain would stay with me.
The stories come together and the ending was perfection that left me completely satisfied and happy that I read this book.
Kronolojik olarak ikinci kitabı olmasının yanı sıra 'The Bridge'den önceki hazırlık turu olarak görülüyor.
'The Bridge' beklentim yükseklere uçtu.**Quiss->Grout->Graham<-Grout<-Quiss döngülerin, örümcek ağlarının yaşanan herşeyin atılan bir adımın, edilen bir kelimenin, saliselik bir bakışın değiştireceği dokunacağı bir çok hayatın yanı sıra duyguların temelinde yatan ilkelliğin meydana getirdiği birlikteliğin aslında modern toplumda ki anlamsızlığına dair mükemmel bir düz yazıydı.
***Bu tarz hikayelerin bir araya toplandığı hikayelerde en önemli etken yazarın bu kesiştirmeleri yaparken zorlama olmadan yapması ve/veya okuruna bunu hissettirmemesi diye düşünüyorum.
'Camda Yürümek' i okurken bu tarz zorlama durumunu hissetmediğim gibi Banks bunu tabiri caizse tereyağından kıl çeker gibi halletmiş.
Banks novels, but the only one I have ever gotten around to reading is Walking on Glass.
The third scenario—of an ultra-paranoid, disturbed individual fond of wearing hard hats and getting himself canned from work due to his delusional behavior—ties-in nicely with the others at the end, even if it didn't provide the interest level of its siblings.
So—very clever, well-written, unexpectedly cruel and cold when not comedic and witty, with an elliptical ending that required not a little puzzling over: then why haven't I more of Banks material under my belt?
While this is Banks’s second novel, I couldn’t shake the suspicion that parts of it, particularly the Graham and Stephen sections, may have been written a long time ago -- before even The Wasp Factory.
This novel is presented in three separate threads with three main characters, Graham, Stephen and Quiss.
I’m afraid that break happened once too often with Walking On Glass and I just couldn’t get into it.Despite all this I like Banks as a writer.
Unfortunately, I think Walking On Glass is, in perhaps a metaphor he might like, his equivalent of the difficult second album.
The surrealist/fantastic castle sequences are the book's saving grace - without them, we'd have only the non-engaging life of a paranoid and a dull, obvious infatuation told in flashbacks.
The paranoid character is too obviously deluded for us to pick on Banks' would-be hints that maybe there's more to him.The book moves along slowly but relentlessly, moving toward what we hope will be a clever, philosophical conclusion that ties all the viewpoints together.
Unfortunately, he hasn't.What we end up with is a dull and self-indulgent big-idea story the author didn't know how to finish.
an early novel by Iain Banksshort plot description: we follow three seemingly unrelated stories.
Quiss and Ajayi were on opposing sides in the "Therapeutic Wars" but are exiled to a castle for doing something wrong.
The characters feel only half-formed, as do the ideas expressed in the plot.
Some plot turns are almost painfully obvious from the start, some parts didn't make sense do me though this was my second reading of the book.
The most interesting part for me was the Castle were Quiss and Ajayi are imprisoned, a wonderful and intriguing place.
Pasos sobre el Cristal fue el segundo libro de Banks en ser publicado, y por lo que estuve investigando, pasó sin pena ni gloria.
(continuar) Pasos sobre el Cristal fue el segundo libro de Banks en ser publicado, y por lo que estuve investigando, pasó sin pena ni gloria.
La estructura de la novela se basa en la interposición de tres historias sin una aparente conexión entré sí; casi paralelas, llegan a un punto, hacia el final, en la que se entrelazan, logrando un resultado bastante interesante.
Something something Lacan, heteronormativity, white bread.Dostoevsky never did anything wrong, he did not kill that cat, nor fill those trenches with concrete, though if he did, he did a damn good job, and it was the world's fault, it made him do it, god damn it, that cat had it coming, he did not kill it.Why is the big castle so big and enigmatic (LIKE THE WOMAN oh the parallels THE ENIGMA).
HE IS TORTURING THEM HE IS TORTURING THEM HE IS--they play chess for two hundred days, the absurdity, the meaninglessness, the pain.I guess I don't hate this book, but it feels like a pale imitation of its source material (Gormenghast, Notes from the Underground, Leisure Suite Larry or some shit, fuck I hate Graham).
I love Iain Banks but am not so fond of Iain M.
Banks, and this book felt as though the latter was influencing the former.
As with The Song of Stone, this was an iffy book for me.There are three intertwined stories here, although we don't learn how they mingle until the last part.
The stories only come together at the very end, and the pacing of that doesn't quite match the first part of the book.
Apparently, the author himself wasn't happy with the ending, which made me feel better!
This is Banks in the heads of young adults who are full of the fears of their times, be it, a fear of not being loved, being cheated on, refusing to leave childhood mind games behind or those wild, wild dreams."...Steven Grout stamped away from the depot he'd just been fired from, away from their stupid job and those awful people.
He watched the cars and buses and vans and trucks pass by him, and calculated how far he had to go to get to the next parked car which would shield him from them."Part of the reader can sympathise with what happens to every one of these characters and their attitudes, whether it be through the readers dreams or daydreams.
The first one is a story of love in current (when written) London.
I consider it the best written, though the story is predictable and well known, if twisted.The second one is disturbing, presenting an involving tale of what it is to be a clinically insane, but as this is Banks, the hint that may be he is sane after all.
It also shows London through that broken mirror of madness.The third one, placed outside conventional time, is the most typically Banksian, and quite fantastic.
According to another reader's review, Banks was ultimately dissatisfied with this book and rewrote it as The Bridge. If true, then that's quite interesting. Like the other reviewer I found The Bridge a superior novel.The tripartite structure of the book is technically interesting but I didn't find the parts strong enough to stand on their own and nor did I find the connections between the parts all that accomplished or intriguing.I recommend all of my favourite Banks novels to friends and family; this is not on that list. Good but not great.
When I finished this book I threw it aside in disgust. Not metaphorically mind, the book left my hands and dented some drywall. I almost gave up on Banks for it. But I couldn't stop thinking about it. Weeks, months later snippets, passages, elements of it popped unbidden into my head, demanding further consideration. It's often said that a book makes you think but this is one of few I've read that literally forces thought upon you; this book is not so much a mindfuck as a mindrape.
I haven't finished a book in two months. There have been many things involved, but more often than not...less than satisfying narratives.This changed that. Well written and quirky enough to satisfy my yearning for the "unique." Granted, some connections are tenuous, others ridiculous, but the prose buoyed the narrative through it.I look forward to exploring the works of Mr. Banks further.
I'm sure that the three storylines woven together here signify something, and that the imaginative outer-world is a meaningful metaphor for something. I just couldn't find a reason to give a crap about any of the characters.Maybe it's an empathetic deficiency on my part, but somehow the big shocker before the end felt both melodramatic and without passion. Sort of like the rest of the book.
Brilliantly muddled or brilliant and muddled?The answer depends on how surreal you like your fiction. Either way, the writing itself is stupendous. The three tales – three quest stories, really – are wildly different in plot and style yet oddly similar in a way I would struggle to articulate. I felt perplexed when I finished the book, but it's growing on me as I reflect on it.
I love the way Iain Banks wrote, his language is so wonderful. But I prefer his later work, which is less dark..
A dark window into a world of abject failure.
I thoroughly enjoyed this novel.
I love the structure of the three plots- it's all so dark and weird.
In the end though, the twist in the Graham plot is very compelling (I won't spoil) is a bit too ambitious and not really feasible (incest, Slater).
This book is absolutely saturated with obscure references and symbolism.
It's great, but you gotta be switched on.
This is partly my fault, but Banks is a bit of a cock-tease, so I'm partly blaming him as well.
I read and loved The Wasp Factory by Mr Banks so decided to try out Walking on Glass. I must say it's a big disappointment in comparison.Although I found parts humorous and the settings and characters interesting, I found that nothing much happened and the book dragged. Considering how short it was it felt like work to get through. It was like wading through treacle, waste deep while wearing heavy boots. It just draaaaaagged. It's not a bad book, not by any means, just a little dull with just enough interest to keep you reading till the end.
Part science fiction or all in your head?
All I know is I really liked it.While some connections in the three storylines may be quite obvious, others leave it up to your own inventiveness far more.
The book is well-executed and has plot twists and open questions enough to see past the obvious plot devices.(view spoiler)[ Where on one hand I'd like to think Quiss and his partner are the two old people playing games in Grout's hospital, this appears to be too simple an assumption, for how then can Ajayi find the beginning of Graham's storyline in the games table's leg?
(hide spoiler)]
Three interspersed settings. One is the story of a young man in eighties London who is going to see a woman. The second is about a crazy-pants guy in the same place an era. The third is a science-fictional story of two people trapped in a strange castle playing bizarre games.If you've read Banks, it's pretty much the sort of thing you'd expect. Definitely one of the weaker of his non-SF works. The stories are interesting in themselves, but the ending was a bit underwhelming.
Another Iain no-M Banks "mainstream" novel confirms that I really don't like Banks' mainstream stuff. I found this impenetrable, wilfully whimsical to the point of perversity, and just annoying. I remain half-convinced that Banks' non-SF was basically him playing a trick on the world: fooling around with discarded ideas, happy that people would just swallow it.
Not my outright favourite Banks though I found much to like. A peculiar crossover between the novels in the "real world" and elements of the fantastical Banks as Iain M expressed in the Culture series.
Good read would give it 4/5. Would of given it 5 out of 5 but found some of the Quiss & Ajayi story line dragged on a bit, and the twist with Sara & Stock was a bit WTF?But still a very entertaining read, Banks had a great imagination and is an excellent writter
