https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3017519-resistance
I consider it one of the better books written on the subject.
The author has something vital to tell us and she does it with precision, candor, spirit and humor.
Humor in a book detailing the life in labor camps?
For lack of space, the day shift and the night shift will take turns to sleep in the same bunks.
This was one of the most difficult war books I have ever read, difficult simply because she makes it so very real and she makes the reader care.
ETA: I should perhaps add that the book has a well written Afterward.
No podría calificar al libro con menos estrellas, debido a que es un diario y su forma es mucho más libre.
Ha sido una gran experiencia meterme dentro de las anotaciones de Agnès Humbert, a quien no conocía hasta que hallé el libro de casualidad.
Si bien sentía dudas sobre los momentos de confección del diario (¿cuándo escribe?
No me quedan dudas, eso sí, sobre el espíritu encendido de Humbert (a veces, ese espíritu la lleva a equivocarse) y la brutal honestidad (prejuicios incluidos… y eran esperables) con la que escribió/ describió cinco largos años.
This is a truly excellent memoir.
It is a unique account of WW11 told from the viewpoint of a French art historian whose acts of bravery and resistance eventually get her arrested.
Agnes is put in charge of the local German population (her organizing abilities and her personal strength are immediately apparent to the allies).
She points a toy gun at the the German civilians and threatens them with it when they are reluctant to follow her orders.
Then, she goes off giggling with her friend.
My GR friend Wendy wrote that this is a woman she would have loved to meet.
Yet during the darkest of the darkest moments and in the most desperate of circumstances, Agnès Humbert embodies courage, strength and purpose.Résistance was founded by intellectuals who had no knowledge of espionage, intelligence gathering or secret codes.
Agnès Humbert, a 46-year-old art historian and ethnographer, was an improbable candidate for the task that lay ahead.
As the story unfolds, I was captivated by the humour and the laughter; at the same time, I was awestruck by how many risks were taken to distribute their newspaper, Résistance.Would I be as courageous?
If you read Résistance – and I strongly suggest you do – these are the hard-hitting questions you will ask yourself when you meet Agnès Humbert.https://ontheroadbookclub.com/
After the occupation of Paris began Agnes and other staff at the museum were replaced by Nazi sympathizers.
This is the story of a remarkable woman who was very brave in dangerous times, and of her ability to deal with very harsh conditions.The book is written in the first person, present tense which gives it a real sense of urgency.
The first third of the book is her own journal entries from her time working for the Resistance.
The remainder of it was written during the nine months after her liberation, but she continued to write it in the style of a diary as if she had a journal and pen in prison with her.
Having recently read Irene Nemirovsky's Suite Francaise about life in Occupied France, I was intrigued to come across this astonishing journal by a woman who joined the Resistance (indeed helped found one of the earliest groups in Paris), was captured, and survived four years in French prison and Nazi slave labor camps.
Her journal is first person, present tense, and, except for the years in prison, written at the time, as the events occurred.
There are just people: those who fight for civilization, and those who fight against it.
This book seems intriguing in spite of some of the three-star reviews it has received on Good Reads. For one, I'm not sure I could ever be "temporarily burned out on WWII" as one reviewer was; nor will the existence of substantial appendices, an involved cast of characters, or any unfortunate disimilarities to The Hiding Place be a serious issue.Looking forward to it.
An astonishing account of one woman's involvement in the French resistance, her arrest, imprisonment, and experience during three years at German slave-labour camps. Agnes Humbert's account has both immediacy and candour. She survives unimaginable horrors and throughout somehow retains the determination to resist the Nazis even with the smallest acts of defiance and sabotage. An incredible story of WWII.
However, that is only the first part of this memoir, as Humbert and her cohorts were soon betrayed and she spent the rest of the war in dank prisons and then working as a slave labourer for the Nazis.
The descriptions of what she and her fellow prisoners went through remain incredibly harrowing, but Humbert refused to allow her spirit to buckle – and it’s that resistance these pages chronicle.Deep down in the British psyche there’s still a grudge towards the French at how easily they surrendered in The Second World War, so it’s refreshing and illuminating to read a first-hand account of the anger which flared up in Paris.
Humbert's journal gives the reader an opportunity to experience the sights, sounds and textures of an era.
It plunges the reader into the atmosphere of that first year of Nazi occupation of France, into the minds and hearts of the first Resistance members.
3.5 starsFav. Quotes:I think back to all the happy times in my life.
Just the happy times.
The rest you have to forget, especially in here: you must forget, or else you get wrinkles.
Wrinkles on your face are bad enough; in your heart they are even worse.Before this I never used to cry; now I'm learning fast.
Considering that, I should hope to see many more stories of women who suffered the Nazi occupation of Western Europe.This book is one that will appeal to your intelligence, but will leave you crushed and tattered at times.
It is a difficult read.
It was difficult to acclimate myself to the beginning of the book but after the first 30-50 pages or so...you just can't put it down.
All women should read this book, and read it with their daughters as an example of how one woman can change the world and survive.
Agnes Humbert kept a journal of her daily life from the beginning of June 1940, and even this journal was bordering on foolish with the intensive scrutiny and activity by the SS and their fear of any criticism or protest against their regime.
From that time until April 1945 Agnes was transported to Germany and worked as a slave labourer in appaling conditions.
She was of course unable to write a journal during that time, but according to the afterword, written by Julien Blanc, she had an amazing memory for detail and names and was then able to complete her account of those four years, writing them as a continous journal following the fall of the Third Reich.
Technically a journal only up to the point when Humbert's means of recording her experiences were taken away by her captors, the stark and vivid recollections of the author's months and years in confinement, neglect, abuse and forced labor offer testament against the depravity of an entire regime.
The substantial afterword adds some very useful insights about the text, its author and the critical era in which she lived and wrote.
The narrator of this audiobook version does a capable job, giving humanity to the author's voice (though she also gives Humbert an American accent).
Indrukwekkende biografie vna Agnès Humbert over haar tijd in het verzet, maar vooral in gevangenschap in Frankrijk en later Duitsland.
Haar boek of memoires zijn technisch gezien maar deels uit een dagboek afkomstig en voor het grootste deel later geschreven met ongelofelijke precisie.
In tegenstelling tot sommige anderen oorlogsdagboeken is het een heldere, feitelijke en nuchtere kijk op de wereld om haar heen, met een dosis optimisme en hoop.
Haar gevangenschap vooral in Krefeld was zeer zwaar en als lezer ben je snel onder de indruk van de ongelofelijke ontberingen waaraan zij en andere lotgenoten werden blootgesteld.
Agnes Humbert jumps off the pages of this book. She is so vibrant and alive, you go right along with her, feeling what she feels. Hard to put down, especially once one gets into the second quarter of the book.
A painful, heroic story of survivalWhat do you do when your beloved city is occupied?
How do you respond?This journal/memoir tells the story of a middle-aged educated professional woman who finds herself part of the earliest resistance to the Nazi/ Vichy regime, and who pays dearly for it.
Originally published in 1946, the author was awarded the Croix du Guerre for her resistance.The book reads quickly even if the material in it is jarring and traumatic, all the more because it is not a work of fiction.It is an engaging read nevertheless, and I strongly recommend it.Passes Bechdel with ease.
Duvernay not at all.
The second section is in journal format but written after her experience in French and German jails and labor camps after being convicted of aiding and abetting the enemy (of Germany, during the occupation).
I was at first disappointed to find the initial section about the Resistance to be so short, but learned that Humbert's Resistance continued throughout her prison time and on into her Nazi hunting activities.
Only five months of these activities were enough to convince the Nazis however, that this movement was trouble.Humbert's times in prison and labor camps were also works of resistance.
After that her story drew me in with descriptions of the inside of a Nazi prison cell, a court trial of Resistance members, and prison work at a rayon factory.In regard to her documentation of the early French Resistance, it is mentioned in the afterword that she wrote down the real names of those involved in her journal.
Had the Nazis found her journal they would have easily been able to locate and arrest the others with whom she worked.I highly recommend Resistance to those who like World War II memoirs, and to anyone who wants to learn more about the formation of the French Resistance and the conditions of political prisoners under the Nazis.
I registered a book at BookCrossing.com!http://www.BookCrossing.com/journal/13155309Wow. What a story.
I have read many different books about WWII, fiction and non, including one autobiography by a specific young Frenchwoman who helped many Jewish children in France.
It is the story of Agnes Humbert, who helped form and worked in the French Resistance, risking her life many times and landing in prison because of her efforts.
It was first published in France in 1946.
There are many questions about her original diary, which it is certain she did maintain, and about what may have been left out of it in the publication.
Resistance: A Frenchwoman’s Journal of the War, by Agnes Humbert, translated by Barbara Miller, Narrated by Joyce Bean, Produced by Tantor Media, downloaded from audible.com.This is a republication of a journal that was originally published right after the war in 1946.
After Agnes was arrested for her Resistance activities, convicted, and ultimately sent to Germany as a political prisoner, the journal became one detailing what happened to the women, including German women, imprisoned by the Nazis during the war.
This was a very interesting book, republished in 2008, and one of the few journals detailing resistance work during the war.
The integrity, bravery, and spirit of Agnes Humbert is clear on every page.A passage I can't get out of my head:Krefeld, 20 December 1942The wardress tells us that a pastor is to visit us, bringing us festive wishes for Christmas.
Following Martha's wake, the girls take turns to talk to the pastor, telling him rapidly and nervously about all that we are made to suffer.
After using up all the incredibles, inconceivables, abominables, and other similar adjectives in his vocabulary, the pastor is lost for words.
He replies, "The sufferings they have had to bear are beyond the endurance of any woman; I give them all absolution."
Humbert was a founding member of a resistance group in France during occupation by the Nazis in WWII.
Her diary describes not only the fall of France and founding a resistance group, but her imprisonment once she is caught and imprisoned.
The bulk of the diary, in fact, describes her imprisonment and her experiences at work camps.
Another woman got her husband extra sausage, was sent to the work camp for dealing on the black market, and then her husband divorced her.
Humbert also includes her experiences helping to round up Nazis after the Americans take over her work camp.
Agnes Humbert was a pretty incredible woman.
She was tenacious and feisty (often to her own detriment) and unafraid to the right thing even at risk to herself.
Reading about the early days of the French Resistance, it is unbelievable how naiive Humbert and her colleagues were.
Her story was very interesting, but there are still a few loose ends that we might not be able to ever tie up (as is the nature of these diaries).
Still, I found her story quite inspiriting.
She must have been an incredible person.
Heartbreaking and frightening how unjust, ignorant and cruel people can be, and on such a massive scale even in our own time. It is only through self-deception that we can pretend that the Third Reich was an aberration far in the past that can't be repeated, that isn't in fact being repeated in some parts of the world today, or that one's own countrymen are somehow above or immune to human depravity. The preservation of human dignity is something we must foster and protect, not assume. Agnes Humbert's is an important book for what it recounts. I highly recommend it.
This was a well written book that included Agnes Humberts' diary written during the occupation of Paris during WWII. Agnes was part of the original Resistance group along with 9 other patriots . Her remarkable story tells of her arrest, sentencing, and experiences while imprisoned in both France and Germany and then finally of her release. An excellent historical read...5 stars
Brave, brave woman...what an amazing book. Love her recall, her style, and her humor. A recitation of horrific events told with humility and humor. So grateful for what she and others sacrificed during the Occupation.
Beautifully written. Gripping.
An amazingly written memoir of a heroines struggle whom has an amazing sense of humour. This book is a great read and a part of our history we shall never forget.
The most amazing thing about this book is probably how Agnès Humbert retains her sense of humour through all the horrible things that happen to her.
The English title is somewhat misleading, as the resistance activities in occupied France actually only take up a rather small portion of the book; the rest is about her experiences in the various German prisons and factories where she is held as a forced labourer.
Those experiences are about as awful as you might expect, and Humbert's insightful, sarcastic, sharply humorous voice doesn't make them any less so, but it certainly lends her account a unique style.
Compulsively readable. Agnes is magnetic and indomitable, and even the darkest parts of her narrative are lit by her sheer force of personality.This book is a riveting look into the flip side of the Resistance that I have been reading about for so long. This is the grassroots homegrown French Resistance, and the contact with London is distant and removed - the stuff of rumors, almost. A fascinating addition to my research and highly, highly recommended.
