https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/65399.Sullivan_s_Island
Another unfortunate book club selection.
This is pretty standard Lifetime movie fare.
The good wife lets herself go frumpy.
Journey of self discovery, interspersed with poignant childhood recollections, ensues.
The flashbacks were well written, however, and the tidbits of Gullah culture interspersed throughout kept it from being completely forgettable.
I found myself wanting more of that, and less in the way of details about how the MC had been losing weight by smoking, chugging diet soda, and eating salads with no dressing.Also, the rest of the book was so riddled with hackneyed dialog, quips, sayings, and excessive exclamation marks, it wore me out.
This is one of those books I often share with folks who want to know more about the lowcountry of SC.
Franks is one of my favorite authors for catching a flavor of the area, and as she is a popular writer, I have about eleventy billion of her books on my BookCrossing shelf.
It is a beautiful beach, setting for Poe's The Gold Bug, and also the location of Fort Moultrie, which was important in our Revolutionary War. Dottie Frank was also a few years ahead of me in high school- we went to an all-girls boarding school called Ashley Hall.
When we meet Susan, she and her teenage daughter, Beth, are heading back to her family home, The Island Gamble, to spend some time with her sister and come to terms with the dissolution of her marriage and her estranged husbands infidelities.
I loved Susan’s attitude, having found out that Karen - the New Age twenty-something that is Tom’s (Susan’s husband) mid-life crisis – was talking to Beth about their sex life, Susan left the following message on her machine:“Tiger Woman?
I enjoyed reading about steamy and stormy Sullivan's Island off the coast of South Carolina, so different from our beautiful mountainous desert.
My favorite character was Livvie, a descendant of African slaves, who lovingly worked for and cared for a dysfuntional Southern family.
Here are some sentences from the book that suggest Livvie's sage and spiritual views:"Her passion for righteousness was stronger than our frenzy."Livvie said, "When folks around you do crazy things, it's the devil trying to distract you from your purpose."Livvie also said, "When you let your mind dwell on trouble, you can't be doing what you needs to be doing," and "...when trouble come knocking on your door, you turn your mind to the Lawd,""Livvie, if you had a chance to do something really big, would you do it?" "Chile, I am doing something really big.
I was hooked from the very beginning, could not put this book down and I did not want it to end.
It's rare, for me at least, to read a book and resonate with characters, feel connected with the story and to feel with the characters so that I laugh, shed a tear or stop to ponder some bit of wisdom that was said.
I highly recommend Sullivan's Island.
While reading Sullivan's Island, I was reminded of what could be considered similar books: Wrapped in Rain by Charles Martin and in some ways, the YaYa Sisterhood books by Rebecca Wells.
SO, you get 3 book recommendations in one review!
From the jacket: Born and raised on idyllic Sullivan’s Island, Susan Hayes navigated through her turbulent childhood with humor, spunk, and characteristic Southern sass.
The problem I had with the book comes from Frank’s attempts to tell two stories: the contemporary (1999) story of Susan’s failing marriage, and the 1963 story of Susan’s childhood and the loss of her father.
Still, it’s a fast read, and I liked the relationship between Susan and her sister, Maggie.
I might read another of Frank’s book if I need a quick read for a challenge, but I’m in no hurry to do so.
I loved Susan’s attitude; how she handled her separation and how she reflects on it with wisdom and maturity.I simply adored the chapters recapturing the Hamilton kids’ youth, one year in particular: 1963.
Loved her every time she opened her mouth, whether it was to stand up to the kids’ formidable, but abusive father, or to share her strong belief in goodness and in God. The Hamilton kids, Maggie, Susan, Henry and Timmy were resilient and good-natured, but also genuine children, who liked to play pranks.
More than ever now, Susan believes that car crash was no accident.This is a wonderful read.
(If you read The Help or saw the movie, this will make a lot more sense)Most of the book that takes place in the present, details Susan coming into her own, and coping with her divorce from Tom. And seriously, why does this woman give her cheating men cancer, and make them absolute twits too?There were several times when I was reading about Tom and his sweet young thang, Karen, that I wanted to fling the book at a wall.Not only that, I found myself wondering where in the hideeheck, the twins were during Christmas 1999, when all the Hamilton clan returned home.
This book was a gift from my stepmother who lives in Charleston and it took me a few years to finally pick it up and read it- As a Charleston native I am always a little skeptical of books that are about Charleston.
The fact that the author is from Charleston too and went to my high school, Bishop England, made me want to read the book.
The book is full of crazy characters and high drama - some of it believable, other parts a little far fetched -- All in all, a good Summer read with enough reality to make it believable and enough surprise to keep you turning the pages.
If I didn't live in South Carolina, I don't know if I would get into the setting and book as much as I did, but I LOVED this book. The character development is so good that I wanted to be best friends with the main character! She is so witty and funny that I found myself laughing out loud while reading. I loved the drama and emotion of her childhood story and I LOVED Livvie. It was just a great book...fun to read and I can't wait to read the sequel.
Loved it! I love the low country and southern history, the good and the bad. This story was so rich in low country history, I thought I was there. I could feel the beach under my feet, smell the salt air, vision the beautiful marshes, the warmth of Livvie's love..... I'm going to make a point of visiting Sullivan's Island during my next trip to South Carolina.
This was an amazing book!! I will be going to get the sequel after work!
This was a great read!! Looking forward to the rest in this series!!
The setting is Sullivan Island in South Carolina’s low country. I’m fascinated with this part of the country and the tough, scrappy folks it fosters. The story is told with a sharp, cutting humor and blunt truths. I laughed out loud and cried with the characters. Can’t wait to start the next book in the series.
I enjoyed this book from cover to cover and cannot say enough about it! I understand that there is a sequel, Return to Sullivan's Island, and I will definitely be reading that one. I loved the characters and the setting in Sullivan's Island, South Carolina, which I learned is a place that really exists! There is nothing like a setting on the Atlantic Ocean, too!
I really enjoyed this. Good summer read but not just fluff. Good story and well written. Makes you really interested in the characters. What to know what happens me to them. Looking forward to reading her other books.
Read the book while vacationing at pawleys island South Carolina. It was easy to get into the scene since that is the area around which it is located. It was a good beach read and had some fun humor and good dialogue in it about a women coming to grips in middle age and finding herself. It was not super deep but it had moments. Good beach read.
As a fan of Dorothea Benton Frank, SC Lowcountry and queen of the south, I have read a few of her newer releases and missed some of the oldies but goodies, so playing catch up.
Susan Hayes, a middle-aged librarian from the Charleston area, faces death, divorce, mid-life crisis, daughter’s terrible teen drama, plus many other dramas, as the novel moves back and forth between the early 60’s and present.
God, middle age is an unending insult.” ― Dorothea Benton Frank, Sullivan's Islandhttp://judithdcollins.booklikes.com/p...
Dorothea Benton Frank will present her story.
Let’s meet the family who resides in the Island Gamble.
Synopsis: Susan is late for a meeting when she realizes that she has left a chart at the house for her presentation.
Susan and her husband Tom separate and she tries to put her life back together with their daughter Beth.
Sullivan’s Island series is my favorite!
This first novel introduces us to Susan and her family.
The plot alternates between the present and the past tells the story of what happened to her daddy.
The story is set in the low country on Sullivan’s Island.
Bring on the next Dorothea Benton Frank novel!
Susan Hayes tells two stories – one in the present, as an adult who is dealing with a failed marriage and raising a teenaged daughter, and one in 1963, as a child who tries to protect herself and her siblings from a dysfunctional home life.
While both ‘Susans’ are funny and likable, by far the more intriguing story is that of 13 year-old Susan.
Although her childhood was one of abuse and tragedy, there was also a closeness with her siblings and a sense of perseverance that shapes the adult Susan.
It was not necessary to have the narrator sound like she was leaving the sound booth when the characters said, "Hello!" or "I'll be down in a minute."Moving between the two eras, 1963 and 1999, worked well to connect the events, but it made me wonder if there weren't any other significant times during this family's life.
Beth was a perfect 14-year old, and it seemed necessary or Susan could not have handled it.
The happy ending with Simon was too predictable but there were good twists and turns on the way.This story would work well for a quick, light summer read.
There are two parallel stories going on in the book, one of growing up on Sullivan's Island in the early 1960's as she sorts through her conflicted memories of growing up in a family of extremely dysfunctional adults and a gullah housekeeper whom she loves, and the other of a mis-aged woman coming back to life after finding her husband in bed with a younger woman -- and throwing them both out -- yet having the strength to work on a post-separation friendship with her ex- for the sake of their daughter.
Sullivan's Island is the first book I have read by Dorothea Benton Frank, and it was not what I was expecting: think merry-go-round that turns into a roller coaster!!!I just loved the main character Susan Hamilton Hayes. The story shifts back and forth in time between 1963 and 1999, two of the most turbulent years of Susan's life. The plot has it all: angst, civil rights, abuse, sibling rivalry, just to name a few. I just loved this story and look forward to reading more by DBF!Go Cards! L1C4!
Another great read from Dorothea Benton Frank. Written with southern charm that I've come to expect from Frank. Her stories always revolve around family and the Lowcountry. And, they always make me want to call a realtor, pack my bags and head for the eastern coast of South Carolina. Great book about a family that overcomes obstacles, despite the many odds against them.Sullivan's Island can be followed up with Return to Sullivan's Island. Going read that now. Can't wait to read how this tale continues.
Set in the Low Country on the shores of South Carolina, this tale recounts the life of Susan Haley, her family, and growing up in Gulah country. Haley tells tales of her family, long time residents of one of the islands and their black housekeeper Livvie. Alternating between the present (1999) and the days of her childhood (1963), Susan recounts fun, mischief, love, and loss in her family. Parts of the book were heart wrenching in their sadness, other chapters were light and full of humor. The first in the series, this book introduces all the characters and their flaws.
Loved it the 2nd time reading it! It had been a while since my first read and I decided I want to read all the Low Country Tale (series) so it was a great place to begin! I definitely have a South Carolina sea islands "thing' going on in my reading! Great southern family drama! Strong woman, great friends and family, cheating husband that adds to the drama! Looking forward to the 7 following chapters of the Low Country Tales!
I love Dorothea Benton Frank's stories and writing style. I have jumped around in this series and now I'm reading the rest in order. My first journey with DBF was because I liked the cover at the library one day and I was hooked from there. I'm in love with beach books and this one goes through the fall and winter seasons. so it was perfect for this time of year. On to the next in the series.
So full of life and living--so beautifully writtenWhen I finished this book, I felt I had lived Susan's life--it was so real. And I certainly did wish that I had been lucky enough to have a Livvie in my life.
This was just a little read that I picked on a trip to Charleston about 3 years ago. I could not put it down: it had me rolling in the floor, keeping my husband awake at night because of my chuckling!One of the funniest reads ever!!!!
I thought I might be walking into a love story, but instead got a well rounded story of living, remembering and accepting your past. A tale of being able to live with your past so you can make your present fuller.
