https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2222.The_Feeling_Good_Handbook
I haven't read this yet, but was recently directed to a list included in this book on page 76 of distorted thoughts, or cognitive distortions, that people make: 1) All-or-nothing thinking: You look at things in absolute, black-and-white categories.2) Over-generalization: You view a negative event as a never-ending pattern of defeat.3) mental filter: You dwell on the negatives and ignore the positives.4) Discounting the positives: You insist that your positives don't "count."5) Jumping to conclusions: (a) Mind-reading--you assume that people are reacting negatively to you when there's no definite evidence for this; (b) Fortune-telling--you arbitrarily predict that things will turn out badly.6) Magnification or minimization: You blow things way out of proportion or you shrink their importance inappropriately.7) Emotional reasoning: You reason from how you feel--ex.
با تمریناتی که در هر فصل ارائه شده شاید دستیابی به اهداف یاد شده غیر ممکن نباشد.کتاب شش بخش و ۲۷ فصل دارد ؛ شناخت روحیه ، احساس خوب ،احساس اطمینان ، چگونه با ارتباط بهتر روابط بهتر ایجاد کنیم و....
Cognitive therapy, as you might know, is based on the premise that your thoughts control your moods and emotions.
The problem is that, when the relief passes and you once more get sucked into the humdrum world of daily troubles, the original beliefs and values come creeping back.But why is this?
To pick a simple example, if an obsession with being the best is really self-defeating—at least as far as happiness is concerned—then why is the opposite message so passionately embraced in the culture at large?Perhaps it is because these value systems, which equate happiness with accomplishment, do benefit the group even if they are not psychologically desirable.
کتابی بسیار مفید در مورد روانشناختی و خود یاریگری برای درمان انواع افسردگی، اضطراب و سایر بیماری های روانی رایج
This book changed my life. I am now able to recognize my mental patterns and decide if they're beneficial to me or not, and discard the unproductive, depressing, anxiety creating thoughts in favor of good thoughts or no thought at all. It's a workbook & the exercises must be done to get the full effect. I recently bought this handbook again because I lost the first one and I realized I'm in need of its way of putting my thoughts on paper and weighing/sorting them out. I recommend this book to everyone, including you. :)
I am not ashamed of reading self-help books, or of liking them despite the fact that they do not possess the subtlety or nuance or pacing of the classics.
"I like jazz" means "I like a small fraction of it, but a fraction big enough to say I dig the genre." I am this way with my 3-4 self-help books.Now to get to the mechanics of the book itself: The Feeling Good Hanbook definitely reads like David Burns received a lot of feedback about Feeling Good, listened to it, and responded to it.
I took it to my therapist's office several times with me feeling upset, brokenhearted, like a failure, desperate, and hopeless."This guy, Dr. Burns, says that if you just think differently, you can change how you're feeling," I said, shaking the book in the air.
(Anyone who has been severely depressed knows what I'm talking about regarding inability to change thoughts or feelings at that point.) AFTER the symptoms are not so disabling, most people can indeed benefit from examining their thinking, as I did when my depression finally started getting better.My depression ended up being part of bipolar disorder.
The speaker was a 20 year or so experienced Psychiatrist who now works w/ LDS Social Services, and rarely uses medication more than very short term, and has seen TONS of non-relapse success with cognitive therapy--anyway, that's what this somewhat older, but still best-selling book is about--except in extreme cases, he gives lots of tools for controlling our misguided/distorted thoughts and therefore controlling our moods and emotions---my life's goal!
Really hopeful and positive though, w/o being narcissistic-a lot of focus on the benefit of good relationships, etc.--more later, after I've read past ch 3!
محتوای قوی نداشت. اونجور که باید افسردگی رو به چالش نکشیده بود. مثل نوشته های زرد بود. فکر نمی کردم یه روانشناس انقد پیش پا افتاده بنویسه. از مسائل محدودی هم حرف زده بود. خوندنش توصیه نمی شه ازین که وقتم رو پاش گذاشتم عصبی و افسرده تر شدم.
This is a great book for people with anxiety disorder. Contains some worksheets as well as great tips for making it through panic attacks.
خوندن این کتاب رو به همه توصیه می کنم . این کتاب به شما کمک می کنه خطاهایی که در شناختتون هست رو اصلاح کنین و انرژی روانیتون رو ذخیره کنید . از اونجایی که همه آدم ها از این خطاهای شناختی دارن و باعث می شه حالشون بد باشه پس همه می تونن برای رسیدن به حال خوب از این کتاب استفاده کنن . البته این کتاب جای تشخیص و درمان روانشناسی رو نمی گیره و اگه کسی مشکلات حادی داره باید به درمانگر مراجعه کنه .
The book really tackles many issues that we face everyday.I think that the book is really helpful for figuring out what is bothering you and how to solve many problems such as depression and other different kinds of phobias.
I think that anybody who has been dealing with depression should definatley read this book and use the methods in the book to help solve whatever issues he or she may be having internally.
In my own opion the book its self is wonderful i am almost finish reading it and it is so helpful and it is helping me deal with my issues with social phobias and fear of failure.
I was given this by a friend who has shelves upon shelves of self help books, and I was very skeptical at first.
To me, all self help books are just fluff, I mean can it be that easy to improve your life just from reading a book?
This book is pretty intimidating with its large size but it is absolutely chalk-full of amazing information and ways to deal with the everyday stresses of life.
I will recommend this book to every person who wants to change their life for the better.
This is my go-to Self Help Bible, it really has EVERYTHING, and it's all so incredibly helpful!
I don't know. So far, I'm not finding this very helpful. Say it's the depression talking if you will, but I feel like I should be on the waiting list for the Oprah show when I'm reading this. I'll finish it... but I have a "good feeling" that $20 I spent on it would have been better used somewhere else.
Overwhelmed? Stressed? Feel like you're ready to slide into a dark abyss?This is the book version of a cognitive behavioral therapy session with a psychiatrist. The examples, advice and exercises help you step back from your feelings, thoughts and behavior and take a clearer, more factual look at what's really going on in and around you.It's a tome at just over 700 pages and covers topics such as Why People Procrastinate, Social Anxiety and Five Secrets of Intimate Communication, all divided into six major sections with an Index.
This is the newer edition of THE book that was used in the clinical trials comparing antidepressants to cognitive-behavioral therapy, in which, believe it or not, they were found equally effective. I wish I had learned about this book in medical school! Not only have I found it extremely helpful on a personal level, but I can't think of a single person I've ever met who shouldn't read this book. What a helpful way of untwisting all the horrible things we and our minds do to ourselves.
ممکن است روش خلع سلاح را نپسندید، زیرا وقتی کسی از شما انتقاد میکند، احساس خشم می کنید و صدایی در درون شما فریاد برمیاورد: حق با من است، حق دارم ازخودم دفاع کنم؛ اگرتسلیم این ندای درونی شوید و این وسوسه همیشه قدرتمندی است، تن به جدلی بی فایده و تقریبا همیشه بی سرانجام میدهید. بحث و جدل با انتقاد کننده تقریبا هرگز به نتیجه نمیرسد، اما در تایید منتقد حرف زدن همیشه موثر است و تاثیر جادویی دارد.
A wonderful, comprehensive handbook for those with depression and/or anxiety.
This lengthy book delves into Cognitive Behavioral Therapy (CBT) where one's automatic thoughts are analyzed for distorted thinking and exchanged for more rational thoughts.
The book is also a workbook full of assignments and scenarios to lead the reader to a better understanding of why they think the way they do.
There are also chapters on anti-depressant/anti-anxiety medications, what they do, how they respond to other meds and the dangers and/or side effects associated with them.
See my review of the book. This is a great handbook and there probably is more info in it. But I would suggest that you don’t need this handbook. I think the book is plenty helpful and only $5 on Amazon. Just my two cents.
When I first read this book, it was difficult to understand.
Then, the concept on dealing with difficult people and "disarmament" was stated in this book.
In his previous editions, there were no "confidence measures'.
Later editions may include these measures.
A "confidence measure" is when you rate yourself from "0 to 10" with 10 being the best, and then you see where you are and what you have to work on.
A rating of 7+ means you are confidence with your choices.
Anything with a 6 or below rating, means you may need some revisions on your choices.
This book is not an attempt to hard sell. It is a sincere, genuine effort to provide us with exercises that really work. This I can say from personal experience. David D. Burns is a champion of Cognitive Psychology, and he has reached out to the general population with the simplest way with this book. This book is simply a must read, and practice. It is a classic.
727 pages. Donated 2010 May.Revised with up-to-date information on the most commonly prescribed psychiatric drugs, "The Feeling Good Handbook" has sold more than 500,000 copies in previous editions.Somehow I expected more. The book seemed kind of patronizing.
اين كتاب را فقط به خاط خاله ام خواندم فكر كنم 4 سال پيش بودكلا از اين مدل كتابها خوشم نمياد. منظورم اين كتابهاي روانشناسي غير كلاسيكهاين كتاب بد نبود براي اين كه نگرش فرويد در روانشناسي را درك كنيتا آنجا كه من متوجه شدم (البته ربطي به اين كتاب نداره) فرويد مهمه! همين
اين كتاب را فقط به خاط خاله ام خواندم فكر كنم 4 سال پيش بودكلا از اين مدل كتاب‌ها خوشم نمياد. منظورم اين كتاب‌هاي روانشناسي غير كلاسيكهاين كتاب بد نبود براي اين كه نگرش فرويد در روان‌شناسي را درك كنيتا آنجا كه من متوجه شدم (البته ربطي به اين كتاب نداره) فرويد مهمه! همين
Can't afford counselling? Well, they've actually studied this book and found it has clinical effectiveness very similar to a course of cognitive behavioural therapy. I found the bit about interpersonal communication especially helpful. Find the truth in complaints against you. Who knew?
Stupid book gave me anxiety about how to fix my anxiety. I gives you a guilt trip in the beginning about not taking the exercises seriously enough. I got rid of it.
A friendly, step-by-step approach to applying Rational Emotive-Based Therapy (REBT) to your own life. Does a very good job of showing the connections between our thoughts and our emotions.
this one is so good for me that its hard to read, if you know what I mean.
However, this not only means being more positive about yourself and your future, but also need to included lowering expectations!I am talking from my own experience: I had often negative feelings but I was very confident and very optimistic and thought that I was very intelligent, good looking, wealthy, healthy etc.
So people like me cannot be helped by becoming even more positive in the perception of themselves or more optimistic about the future.
The thoughts you have, no matter how distorted, create your emotions- which feel real no matter how distorted the thought is.
Then uncoil these distorted statements and restructure the way you think about them, by using your rational thought.
An example would be if I thought nobody ever helps me clean the house and I am the only person who cares.
So I would write down the thought, and then I would figure out which method of distorted thinking I used and then write my rational response.
But I think everyone can connect to distorted thinking and upset moods- so I find the book helpful for most anybody.
I read this on my mom's recommendation.
Aware of how much I can't stand new-agey "power of positive thinking" crap, she knew I would really benefit from and enjoy the very concrete, no-brainer techniques Dr. Burns offers to combat a myriad of cognitive issues like anxiety, procrastination, poor self-talk, etc.
There are a lot of work-book exercises (use a pencil so you can erase and do later if you want!) that really make you work through your flawed thinking patterns.
Although I know I will need to be diligent in my practice of the techniques, I can already see how they are changing how I interact with myself, my surroundings, and other people.
Highly recommend!
