https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/12365.The_Risk_Pool
All the other Russo books I've read have been written from the perspective of an adult male, and usually heavily influenced by their mothers, set in some downtrodden small town in Upstate New York.
In "The Risk Pool", Ned is a boy when he begins his narration, living with his mother, while his unreliable father Sam is more or less out of the picture.
Then his mother becomes ill, and there is no choice but to move in with his rule-breaking, gambling (yet surprisingly loveable) father; and this induces major changes in Ned's personality--not necessarily a bad thing.I often wonder where the autobiography ends and the fiction begins in his books.
I know I am in love with Russo the author.
Then I tells 'em what I told 'em."Because Richard Russo's middle name is Repetition.
By the time you got to the end of the street Richard Russo would be just about finishing describing lacing up his shoes.
Thing is, I think we have had enough love letters from writers to these kind of guys to last us a lifetime.
So eventually, about half-way through, I thought : not gonna finish this one.6) I really don't like not finishing novels which I think are actually pretty good.
But I don't want pretty good anymore.
i've decided richard russo is like u2 -- all his stuff sounds pretty much the same, but it's terrific, so i don't care.
(curious that i like him so much anyway...) this novel is the most sprawly and repetitive of his that i've read- could've used a much tighter ed.
hand, and, though effective, i got pretty sick of the uses of, e.g., "blackly" and "suspiciously" after the first hundred times- but, still, a so-so RR book is better than most most-other-people's best.
It's true that for me a big part of this book's allure is how well I know these characters.
I mean, really know them.
But whether or not you relate to the characters from the start, by the end you will at least empathize with them.
Russo draws each role so clearly with the requisite anecdotal background that brings them into focus.
But his true talent is dialogue.
Anyone who's spent time in back-woods, homegrown bars will have heard these conversations before - though perhaps not specifically or from the mouths of such eccentrics.
For those who haven't, welcome to a new & true look at small town Americana.
A brilliant novel, the impact of which is only fully appreciated in the finishing of it.
Part coming of age story, part meditation on familial ties and similarities between parents and children, and part documentary about the decay of a small New York town, Russo weaves these disparate threads into a unique tapestry showing the lives of quiet desperation lived by the inhabitants of Mohawk, NY.
Ned Hall opens the novel by relating the tale of his parents' courtship and quick marriage just prior to his father, Sam, going to Europe to fight in WWII.
His wife, Jenny, says that he was a changed man when he returned, but Ned wonders if that is true.
I always feel like kind of sucker for enjoying Richard Russo novels as much as I do--he plays the "looking back on your life, wistfully" card to the hilt--but whatever: the guy can tell a long, mostly uneventful story about vaguely interesting men with the best of them, and in Risk Pool, his second novel, from 1988, he again had me totally engaged, chuckling out loud, getting a bit teary-eyed, all of it.
Sure events occur, and Ned's father, Sam, a small-town rogue, is a terrific character, and you definitely want to know what happens to all of these people with whom you spend some 450 pages, but Risk Pool is really about feelings.
THE RISK POOL started my love affair with the extraordinary Richard Russo. He is definitely an American master.
And although my life was nothing like that of Ned Hall's, I easily identified with the people in his life and the fears that he nurtured.And you know what, by the end of the book, just like Ned, you come to love Sam. For all his faults he held down a job, and for the most part supported his son, giving him some important life lessons along the way.
Most frighteningly, there is that part of your mind that can imagine that if your cards turned up the same as his, that you too, could have easily ended up Sam Hall.
The charismatic Sully in two later books is pretty much based on him too.- we get a bit of the fishing thing from "The Sun Also Rises"This book is definitely more about Dad than Mom. However, if you've read Russo's memoir "Elsewhere" you will readily recognize RR's troubled mother in this book.
In "Nobody's Fool" Sully has three sons; his real adult son, that son's older son and his sort-of son Rub. Interesting to see how authors integrate their own life experiences into their writing.Well into the book now and have raised my rating up to 4* as Russo got me to laugh AND cry last night.


I love all things Russo and this novel is no exception. Interesting, a good longish book that kept me entertained and involved. The story of a boy growing up and his relationship with his early absentee father and the sad life of his agoraphobic mother. As with most Russo novels, set in a NY state town which is dying, this is a struggling family, an only child set in 1950s/60s. Full of Russo's superb literary skills although not very much of his usual wry humor. Russo writes small town story extremely well. ★
It took a long time to finish this book.
The literature is good, the book moves pretty fast, the characters are all well etched and lovable, but I still took almost a month to finish this book.
May be it is because I didn't want to finish it, leave the town of Mohawk, Ned's side as he eats his sandwich at The Elms, or wanted some more of Wussy talking to Sam's kid.
Or may be because I wasn't ready to let go of Sam Hall himself, yet.
What a beautiful book this is, and I realized it only as I wiped my tears towards the end.
(ha!)QOTD“Trouble with you is,” my father told her, “you think you got the pussy market cornered.”- Risk Pool, Richard RussoRichard Russo's writing style is Goldilock's porridge...
The description of Mohawk, NY and its denizens are wonderful!Ned Hall is our first-person narrator.
Ned's adult adventures are great, too.Gender is, I don't know, exaggerated throughout the book.
Ned's father, Sammy Hall, is super-macho and half-crazy, a “rockhead”.
It was his favorite question, and I never knew what he meant by it.- Ned and his father, Risk PoolI have to queue up some more dang Richard Russo.A great read!
Readers looking for a lot less talk and a lot more action will probably grow impatient: the story rambles on at something like the speed of a young boy’s growing up: slowly, with regular pauses for the next elaborate anecdote.In the second half Sam’s kid has grown up, moved about as far away as possible, made something of a mess of his life, and begins periodically to go home again, taking up and forging the father-son relationship left stunted in childhood by Sam, the sort of man no mother would want her daughter to marry and the outstanding local character among many in the failing town.
(1) I thought the story was going to be about Ned and his mother (she raised him for the most part).
(Don't let the fact that the book was written around those few times that Sam was around fool you.
And yet Sam was much more important to Ned than his mother.
Is that usually the case and it's just because the mother in this story was so dysfunctional that it didn't work this way for Ned?
(2) In the story, it was brought up numerous times that the characters would grow up to be just like their gender parent (girls like their mothers, boys like their fathers).
The more books I read by Richard Russo the more I associate him with a fine, expensive wine.
With a wine such as that, you don’t gulp it all down at one time.
I think the biggest fascination I have with Mr. Russo’s books is that they don’t really have an apparent storyline but more of a history of his character’s lives.
If you have never read one of his books, do not expect any of them to be a formula written storyline.
Yet I find myself days, even weeks, after reading his books thinking about the stories and his characters.
As I drove through Gloversville, N.Y., about five years ago, I saw a brick house that was being demolished.
As I passed by the front of the house, it looked like all the other homes on the block, except that I could see through the windows that sun was pouring in where there should be living rooms and sofas.I could not get that image out of my head while I read The Risk Pool.In my hometown, there would have been a row of lawn chairs out front, occupied by sidewalk superintendents maintaining a steady patter of narration during the action.
That's pretty much the only difference between my hometown and Gloversville.Now, I'm online, being a sidewalk superintendent about Russo's book and his writing.
Dear Richard Russo,I love character-driven stories, and you write some of the best I've ever read.
Does anything much happen in your stories?
Not usually, and what does happen tends toward the quotidian.
Because don't we all have some little experiences, those ones that happen almost every day, that make us who we are?Good work.
I'm sadly almost done with your back catalog now, but I'm excited that you're still out there writing.
It could be a good place to start if you haven't read Russo, since I think there's a bit more plot to this one than some of his others.
This book is a coming-of-age and beyond story about a boy/young man in an upstate New York town with two separated parents who are neglectful yet still loving in their own ways.
Most interesting is watching how their relationships with their son shapes who he becomes.
The focus is clearly on the father-son relationship, and the father in this story defines the word "character" as a descriptor for an individual.
More so, is the pleasure of spending time with these people, learning to know and to love them, despite some of their despicable, but oh so human, characteristics.
Loved this book.
Loved all of Russo's books and I loved this one too.
That's not what you come looking for when you read Russo.
What the man delivers are characters.
Big ones.
Big believable unpredictable characters who drive the novel forward by being themselves.
To say nothing of Russo's writing which is so seamless and insightful, you almost forget you're reading.
Russo never strays far from the settings and themes he feels most at home with - families, small town America, industrial decay - but the characters are rich and distinct enough to make you forget that you've heard all before.
Ik heb het boek gelezen in de Nederlandse vertaling. Het speelt in een kleine 'rundown'stad in Amerika.Het wordt verteld door de zoon. Na zijn geboorte verlaat zijn vader het pand en na enkele jaren begint het getouwtrek van de ouders om aandacht van de zoon. Het speelt zich voornamelijk af in kroegen en gokhallen die worden bevolkt door de drinkmaten van zijn vader. Het wordt met veel humor en mensenkennis verteld en je krijgt sympathie voor alle 'losers' van die maatschappij.Heb een ander boek van dezelfde schrijver "Empire Falls' van de bibliotheek gehaald. Dit boek heeft de Pulitzerprijs gewonnen.
I was always puzzled about the title of this book. What is it about? It refers to his father's assignment to the auto insurance risk pool but is really a larger metaphor for all those characters in the book living on the edge, barely getting by and down on their luck in these upstate NY towns abandoned by closing plants. The characters are wonderful. Each chapter is like a separate short story. This book, as all of his books, is filled with human stories and events and emotion. I'm glad I finally got around to reading these early books.
What an absolutely beautifully written book. The story is so well written that the reader is taken inside, becomes almost part of the story.I really felt empathy for the narrator, whose story this is. He's just a shy, uncertain kid trying to make his way through life virtually alone. He has an absent father and what turns out to be a crazy mother. Along the way, Ned, the narrator, makes some pretty big mistakes, but in the end, he figures out life and his parents- in spite of their best efforts.
sure it's repetitive, with only a slender wisp of slow plot. but still. the atmosphere. the lovable drunks. the myopia. it's all so pleasing, catching all the ugly angles in a happy glow of "well, what now?" i've enjoyed better books less. there's very little i would change, granted the big red pen to do it. for me that's saying something.
At a time when we're all reading about the opioid epidemic in towns like Mohawk, this book explains what it's like to live there, both if you're stuck and also if you have enough brains and desire to get away.So, you have Ned. He's about 35 or so when he's narrating the book, and he's settled into a decent life, though you don't find out until the end what that life is.
The story is told after college, not in real time, as Ned looks back on how he barely managed to escape his apparent destiny in the the pool halls and dive bars of Mohawk.
Another reliable novel from this author written about small town America---always with an interesting cast of characters and situations.
Decided to read The Risk Pool after reading anthology of short stories he edited, as well as Empire Falls a few years ago.It's all character-driven and reminds me of Steinbeck.
The novel follows the entire cast, through Ned's eyes, from birth to fatherhood at age 34.
Odd things happen, even tragic ones.What I like about Russo is his readability, his way with dialog and capturing small things and casting them large.
Like his dad, he often runs, but returns later.Risk pool - for those uninsurable due to bad driving records.
Certainly many characters in this novel get dumped in the pool.
Het gebeurt zelden dat ik een boek onuitgelezen weg leg, of het moet al heel slecht zijn.
Bij het lezen schoot me dikwijls de uitdrukking van mijn neef door het hoofd: "De helaasheid der familiebanden" (mooi gevonden, vind ik).
Met je familie moet je het inderdaad doen.
Een mooi onderdeel van het boek vond ik het besef van de zoon, universitair geschoolde uitgever, dat hij enorm veel lijkt op zijn verzopen pa die gewoon doet waar hij zin in heeft, zonder zich iets te bekommeren om wat de omgeving van hem verlangt.
Dat boek staat in mijn bib tussen de nooit weg te geven boeken.
Seldom give 5 stars, but this book stays true to its narrator, Ned Hall, from start to finish as he lives in and later visits his hometown, Mohawk, NY, trying to figure out, grow up with and survive his parents and surrounding cast of characters.
The characters are not caricatures since Russo portrays their humanity, without sloppy sentimentality.
We are inside Ned"s head as he movers from childhood to adolescence and adulthood, somehow avoiding insanity, meanness, or lack of compassion.
He not only survives but finds that he wants to be connected, even though he doesn't always get the answers he seeks about love and life.
