https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/905.The_Inner_Game_of_Tennis
The Inner Game of Tennis is well written, engaging, and probably the most practical and applicable book to my own life that I have ever read.
I don't even play tennis and this book has helped my mental and physical approach to and performance in sports, namely basketball.
Even if you don't play tennis or even sports in general, this book and its principles of letting go of mistakes and moving forward with knowledge and experience but not self-judgment are wonderfully helpful in this grand game we call life.
I hope you read this book too, because it's a game-changer.
The book gives ample evidence (that's also quite easy to relate to) that Self 2 can master almost everything in a short amount of time, while being "in the flow", if only Self 1 doesn't interfere.
Thus, the inner game mostly deals with quieting your thinking brain; there seems to be a bunch of strategies, the simplest one simply being "focusing your attention on something, so your thinking brain is occupied and can't interfere".Author also gives an interesting perspective on winning, derived from surfers.
If only this book were as easy to apply as it was to read :)
ETA: My husband's Goodreads account is inexplicably linked to mine. So when he finishes a book, his review shows up here. I have not read this book but I trust the reviewer. He's pretty keen. ;) His review:An enlightened viewSome simple and profound insights. Practical and theoretical guidance on the power of attention and focus, and the pivotal role these essential skills play in the game of tennis and the game of life. Highly recommend. A swift and engrossing read with lasting value.
This is a book that needs to be absorbed over time, then put aside while you contemplate its messages and let them grow, before once more picking it back up and solidifying what you understood on the first pass, and finding other gems buried beneath your initial lack of understanding.I followed this process, but the audio book format isn't really suited for this kind of reading, so I decided to order a physical copy as well.
Honestly this is one of the best book I've ever read, it really spoke to me on so many different levels.
If you've played any sports or games you know what it feels like to be In The Zone, everything is flowing and you play the best you've ever played.
Well, this book addresses that exact issue and I found it extremely valuable to help me reach a new level for my gym workouts.
One other thing I really like about this book is that it speaks about the importance of natural effortless learning which is so much powerful than consciously trying to learn a new skill.
However, I am an ultimate Frisbee player/athlete and a lot of what Timothy talked about (perfecting your "Inner Game" via mental acuity & awareness) can be readily applied to any non-contact/competitive sport- especially ultimate Frisbee which is very much a thinking/mental game after you've mastered the basic skills.
The topics of the 2 "self"s, focus, competition, and the pure "getting over yourself" aspect was extremely helpful.
Written in the 70's, you can read this short guide in an hour or so and the topics covered in this book are perfect for someone to overcome self-doubt, nervousness & breaks in concentration that really mess up your mental game which is, really, your entire game.
As it turns out, many of my colleagues have read this book, so it seems as though I am the last!
'The Inner Game' has, without a doubt, been one of the most beneficial books I have ever read.
Before I had even finished, some of the insights of the book had already begun to change the way that I practice, audition, and perform!
I wont say that the author has come up with any ideas or concepts so revolutionary that they haven't been written in a dozen other books ....
but I will say that the way that he has exposed and explained things here have really worked for me.
It’s Buddhism, secularized and westernized and applied to sports. Bloody brilliant if you ask me.
Quotes:Images are better than words, showing better than telling, too much instruction worse than none, and… trying often produces negative results.The “hot streak” usually continues until he starts thinking about it and tries to maintain it; as soon as he attempts to exercise control, he loses it.The first skill to learn is the art of letting go the human inclination to judge ourselves and our performance as either good or bad.Judgmental labels usually lead to emotional reactions and then to tightness, trying too hard, self-condemnation, etc.
Tim wrote this book in 70s and since then this book became classics, it even kicked off new profession - coaching… The key idea of the book is that all of us are perfect from birth to death, so only limitation to achieve full potential are self-limitation we put on ourselves by being judgmental, unfocused and egocentric.
Tim illustrates this by saying that in ourselves there are 2 selves: Self 1 - teller, thinker, criticizer, and Self 2 - doer.So to achieve full potential Self 2 need to get freedom and some support from Self 1, otherwise it is stuck in its development.
Some amazing insights given that this book preceded all of the empirical work within the field of psychology concerning the dual role of the conscious vs.
The most difficult part is figuring out how to institute some of the suggestions in specific situations (especially in other sports).
Most of the techniques Gallwey describes are simply ways to get your conscious mind out of the way so you can let the correct motor learning system take over.
Not a difficult book to understand, but nearly impossible for many athletes to actually enact.
I would recommend this book to anyone who has ever struggled to experience the true joy that comes with playing sports.
I don't play tennis. But now I don't have to because I have locked down the inner game.This book isn't really about tennis, it's about wu wei. Flow. The zone. Being "unconscious." It's about silencing the inner critic, detached observation, and naturalism. I read it from the perspective of a musician, although I am not much of one anymore, and felt like there was some great wisdom there.
If you want to understand how to better focus and get in a mental state to excel your performance, this is a great book for that.
Wow, thanks Made You Think podcast. I was so short sight in avoiding this and thinking I needed to focus instead on technique and the physical. This book is life changing, I will be reading and re-audiobooking it soon.
Внутренняя игра направлена на то, чтобы справится с привычками ума, препятствующими достижению совершенства."Как идеальное состояние внутреннего игрока автор приводит состояние детской непосредственности, когда ребенок учится, например, ходить и он полностью погружен в процесс, ориентируется на свою интуиции и свой опыт.
У нас есть внутренняя уверенность, что мы можем сделать то, что требуется, и нам не нужно очень стараться.
Мы просто знаем, что действие произойдет, и когда оно произойдет, и не склонны ставить себе это в заслугу.
Как говорит Сузуки, мы становимся "непосредственными как ребенок."Чтобы научиться успокаивать свой разум и достигать состояния "естественного обучения" и "непосредственного ребенка" нужно освоить три навыка: 1.
There is no way that our brains can think through all of the small movements our body needs to do to hit a fast-coming ball with a tennis racket, or control our vocal chords to sing a song, or play a fast-paced jig on a fiddle.
The minute we try to take control the situation (which self 1, our ego, wants to do, so it can feel like it accomplished something), we start faltering and messing up the music or missing hitting the ball.
By the end of the book I sort of, maybe, found myself missing gym class, or at least missing having opportunities to do things like play softball and badminton occasionally.
This book is a classic -- if you play tennis it's a must read.
The author is a renowned sports and life coach who became famous with this book, in a large part because Harry Reasoner thought the principles in it couldn't possible work and challenged to author to prove them.
He did, and it changed the reporters mind, and the way many of us look at how we play sports and also how we live.It's primary thrust is to help the reader learn to apply some basic principle of non-judgment and focus to their tennis game, and watch the rest just fall in line.
It works!
A very good book on the "selves" involved in learning, as well as how to learn naturally. Applied to tennis, naturally, but this can be applied to many things. This was a really good book on the fundamentals and techniques on natural learning (or "inner game" learning).I found it goes pretty well with the dual process theory presented in Thinking, Fast and Slow, connecting "self 1" to "system 2" and vice versa.
This book is one of the most important books out there for overcoming our own mental barriers to any activity. It was actually recommended to me by my oboe teacher, but has also been brought up by shooting coaches and, yes, tennis coaches. Definitely worth a read to get great ideas on how to trust your subconscious and overcome your own tendencies to over-think performance - and thereby not perform as well as you can. Highly recommend - for everyone, not just tennis players!
Recommended by Kareem!
The book is quite strange to read if you go into it without any plans to start learning tennis in the future but you read it anyway because of all the high recommendations.
And sure enough with a bit of patience you can pull out quite a few gems of wisdom till you get to the last third.
Sure some of the suggestions of letting go of judgments and go with the natural flow are as old as humankind itself but the idea is presented and structured quite well through tennis.
A simple book with a powerful message - to quiet the mind, allows the body to excel.
The cat has utmost focus and every muscle is acting out of instinct.
Contrary to the cat, human minds continue to be bombarded by the outside world.
Learn to let go of the ego, and trust the body we are born with, that is the tug-o-war with ourselves, and also what Gallwey describes as the Inner Game.
A book that both a tennis enthusiast and a non-enthusiast can pickup to learn about how quieting the mind can help us reach our individual potentials.
The Inner Game of Tennis asks many of the questions I asked myself in the last years and also answers them in a... spiritual way... As a bonus - it makes reference to "Games People Play" by Eric Berne - another book I consider important. I'm really looking forward to my next table-tennis training.Highly recommend it.
The Inner Game of Tennis gets a little repetitive at times/the sub-headings are all you need, but if you do some strategic skimming then this book much lives up to its lore of profundity. And I’ve already seen/felt improvements in various outer games of mine like golf and surfing. Very glad I read it!
Lot of good ideas, Timothy discusses difference between Self 1 & Self2, how to focus and how to look at competition. Need to try these ideas next time I play tennis and also in life in general. It's a short read, so definitely worth re-reading once a year.
[4.5]
Although not as revolutionary as I imagined, I did get some great takeaways that I plan on using in my teaching and playing careers. Worth a read, which can easily be done in an afternoon.
[Example: * Won a game, but not satisfied with the performance/opponent was not strong enough -> won external game *Lost a game, but performed well on one goal, the improvement of one element -> won internal game]
A book referenced by the Tom Brady. Great simple concepts of visualizing your success on the field or court. Also watch other pros and visualize yourself doing what they do.
The book is okay about its idea.
It's pretty simple: trust your subconscious mind in playing the game (the game here is whatever game: tennis or something else), quiet your logic, analytical, conscious mind, stop doing judgement, just make your goal clear and trust yourself.
But the writing style really disturbs me.
Maybe it's because I don't understand the tennis rules.
The author explain so much and sometimes I feel like it's just repeat itself constantly.I see the Goodreads audiences are pretty strict on the writing aspect and surprise why the rating of the book is so high :D.
