https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/37969723-the-silence-of-the-girls
"Great Achilles. Brilliant Achilles, shining Achilles, godlike Achilles . . . How the epithets pile up. We never called him any of those things; we called him ‘the butcher’." The Silence of the Girls is a retelling of Homer's The Iliad that brings in the stories of the women and girls who were, essentially, collateral damage in the Trojan War. Briseis is the narrator. When Lyrnessus falls to the Greeks, she becomes a war prize for Achilles but quickly gets caught up in a dispute between him and
Barker's frank, gritty portrayal of a place swamped in stinking rats, alcohol and male ego is especially good in the first half of the book.Whether intentional or not, the title calls to mind Clarice Starling from The Silence of the Lambs and her story about helplessly sitting by while the lambs went to the slaughter.
The strong start becomes something tedious and repetitive once we settle into camp life, and especially so when the author introduces Achilles' perspective in the second half.
It is strange perhaps that in a book called The Silence of the Girls, Achilles is still the most interesting and multilayered character.
I was a slave, and a slave will do anything, anything at all, to stop being a thing and become a person again. This is a really good historical novel. I didn't say historical romance because it is most definitely not one. If you're expecting a romance novel, you'd be dead wrong.It's a brutal tale. If you're triggered by rape, you should stay away from this book, but it is just a fact, it is not used as a plot device.The theme of this book is survival, or rather, subsistence. Briseis was a queen
This is a really good historical novel.
I didn't say historical romance because it is most definitely not one.
If you're expecting a romance novel, you'd be dead wrong.It's a brutal tale.
No details were spared for our sensitivities in this book.
Achilles killed him with a sword cut straight down the middle of his head, the two sides falling neatly apart, like a split walnut, to expose the convoluted brain.
This book is not only about Briseis, it's about war.
Achilles, Hector, Agamemnon, Patroclus.
It may be a brutal book, but it's beautiful in its stark brutality.
“The defeated go down in history and disappear, and their stories die with them.”The Silence of the Girls is a dark and weighty retelling of the Iliad. Told from the voice of one of the defeated, Briseis, the reader is offered a different perspective on the destruction of Troy.  Briseis, once a queen, is now a prized possession of Achilles--the same man who destroyed her city and butchered her family. Relegated to be Achilles’ “bed girl,” she is merely serving a purpose in the Greek camp. “And
Told from the voice of one of the defeated, Briseis, the reader is offered a different perspective on the destruction of Troy.
Briseis physically can’t fight her enemies, and escape would leave her desolate and in danger; she can only find her power in one way: observation.
However, I found the narrative to be bit temperamental and I could have done without Achilles’ perspective--if this was to be the story of those who were voiceless, why does the reader need to be inside the head of the so-called “hero?” In spite of this, The Silence of the Girls is a rich and thought-provoking tale.
This was my pick for the September 2018 Book of the Month box!  “Looking back, it seemed to me I’d been trying to escape not just from the camp, but from Achilles's story; and I’d failed. Because make no mistake, this was his story—his anger, his grief, his story. I was angry, I was grieving, but somehow that didn’t matter.”  Hi, my name is Melanie and 2018 has been the year that I constantly talk about my love for Greek mythos retellings. The Silence of the Girls is a feminist reimagining of Ho
Briseis is a woman that has lost everything; her family, her city, her freedom, but this story gives her an actual voice, unlike all the other tales, but also shows how much more she was able to lose after Achilles is at the gate of her city.
But Pat Barker gives a voice to the women who are just background noise in all then men’s stories, deemed unworthy.This reading experience is so unique because the Greeks are hailed as the heroes the entire time, but in this book we get to see behind the heartbreak and devastation they cause on and off the battlefield.
Yes, it is absolutely a stunning masterpiece.For over 10 years, the city of Troy has been under siege and in battle over Helen, a woman who can observe the war high atop a parapet within the city walls.Another woman, Briseis, a former queen of a neighboring kingdom, has been captured by and lives in servitude of the man who murdered her husband and brothers, Achilles.
While you may “know” some of these characters from popular Greek mythology, Briseis’ perspective and Barker’s rich storytelling combine in a way that each character is robust and complex in ways not depicted before.Barker’s The Silence of the Girls is a study on war and its indelibly human impact as told by a resilient and brave (mythological) woman.
Told primarily from the perspective of Briseis, a Trojan captive given to Achilles as a war prize, Pat Barker's novel endeavors to tell the unsung story of the female characters who litter the background of the Ancient Greek epic.
Pat Barker captured the grandiosity of these characters and events in a way that really struck a chord with me; I felt constantly on the verge of tears reading parts of this novel because Homer's musings on fate and free will and grief and glory - in short, what makes the Iliad so epic and timeless - are all echoed in Briseis' narrative.
Pat Barker continues on the themes of war, providing a brutally visceral portrait in this telling of The Iliad, adding the voices of the women missing from the original.
When her family is wiped out by the forces of Agamemnon, Briseis becomes the premier warrior, Achilles, trophy prize.
Barker provides complex and nuanced characterisation, of the women as slaves, prostitutes, nurses, whilst giving us an Achilles that is less a hero, more a troubled man with his own demons.
The Silence of the Girls is a stellar novel, beautifully written, where the stories of the women are told, made authentic with their opinions and views, amidst the never ending cost of war they are forced to endure.

Literally, 2 pages are given to Briseis's pre-capture past.
The rest, so far at least, is her watching men do things, mostly disgusting things, and being abused, with an occasional break for an entirely too modern for the story feminist lecture.
Why no time is spent on women nurturing relationships among themselves, on explaining their (to be sure rich) internal lives?
Even if they are captured slaves, they still have pasts and stories to tell, right?
I am growing increasingly frustrated by these new stories with women's voices, when the women are only defined by their relationships to (mostly awful) men in their lives.
I've been trying to escape not just from the camp but from Achilles' story This is the best modern re-telling of the Iliad that I've read - even if it does perhaps extend too far, taking in the aftermath of war as told in Athenian tragedies: the Hekabe, and the Trojan Women especially. Told in a straightforward narrative, the majority in 1st person from Briseis with intermittent 3rd person chapters from the POV of Achilles, this is both accurate to the tone, register and thought-world of ancien
In that sense, it reminds me a little of Atwood's The Penelopiad, especially with its attention to female experience - though it certainly lacks the savage playfulness of Atwood's piece.It's perhaps a little unfair that the premise claims that female voices are muted in the story of the Trojan war: Helen's weaving, which Barker rightly draws attention to, has been claimed by classical scholars as a form of female 'authorship' making her a parallel to Homer himself; and Athenian tragedy makes female voices - both lamenting and raging - central to the culture's experience.
The Andromache, Hecuba, The Trojan Women, Iphigenia, Helen and others all make interventions in the Homeric story, telling 'the distaff side' of the tale.Nevertheless, there's certainly room for a modern 'Iliad' and especially one which side-steps the Mills-and-Boon-esque versions of writers like Madeleine Miller.
"I was a slave, and a slave will do anything, anything at all, to stop being a thing and become a person again."  This book was not what I hoped it would be.  After reading Circe this summer and falling in love with it, I couldn’t wait to read more historic novels about Greek Mythology. Yet where this story promised to be a retelling of the Iliad from the perspective of the girls (multiple!), I only get one girl. For a while.The beginning and the first volume are very strong. Queen Briseis and
Through Briseis’ eyes we see it all happen, and how she’s later given to Achilles as a ‘gift’: the man who butchered her brothers now becomes her master.A brutal and horrifying story, yet we keep following Briseis, and none of the other stolen women: the other concubines of Greek officers, the washerwomen, the poor slaves doing the lowest jobs.
Yet that’s what this book becomes after the first 1/3 is done: a non-refreshing recount of the Trojan War, mentioning all the known events (the Fall of Troy, the ending of Achilles and Patroclus), leaving Briseis and the other women as a footnote in the grand tale.
When I realised that this book was potentially a retelling of "The Iliad" but told from an entirely different perspective, I was intrigued.
When I discovered it was going to be told from the perspective of Breseis, that was enough to make me purchase the book.The story Barker tells in this book, is essentially one of rape and slavery of the women, but unfortunately, in my opinion, I dont think enough was done to change the story.
I appreciate that both authors discuss the slavery and rape of women, that is so, so often just overlooked, but on an emotional level, "The song of Achilles" entirely captured my heart.
Her story, from the time of the attack and the plundering of Lyrnessus to her transfer—with scores of other enslaved women—to an encampment closer to the battlefield, is the focus of Pat Barker’s novel.
A large portion of the novel is concerned with the feud that develops between Achilles, the Greeks’ finest warrior, and Agamemnon, chief commander of the Greek forces.
Achilles, of course, bears a gargantuan grudge.No doubt Barker’s earlier experience writing about the Great War came in handy when depicting battle and field hospital scenes.
Instagram || Twitter || Facebook || Amazon || PinterestMan, people are getting all up in this book's face because it doesn't read like Madeline Miller. Of course it doesn't read like Madeline Miller. Do you see the name Madeline Miller on the cover? No; it says "Pat Barker." It's like marching up to your step-mom and saying, "YOU'RE NOT MY REAL MOM." Well, duh. But that doesn't necessarily mean that she's a bad person, either.THE SILENCE OF THE GIRLS appeared on Netgalley one fine summer day, a
Instagram || Twitter || Facebook || Amazon || PinterestMan, people are getting all up in this book's face because it doesn't read like Madeline Miller.
I could listen to it all day.I actually read this book at the perfect time because I had just finished another book called A THOUSAND SHIPS, which is about the events in The Iliad that lead up to the Trojan War. In THE SILENCE OF THE GIRLS, everyone is already in the thick of it, and things are nearing the end.
You’d think with this prolific focus on the same characters and situations it’d come to feel repetitive, but I’m finding the more retellings I read the more engaged I am.
It was particularly interesting coming to “The Silence of the Girls” having read “The Song of Achilles” and “House of Names” since they take different perspectives on the same cast.
It’s a refreshing reassessment of the positions of many characters associated with these tales of war who’ve traditionally been treated as peripheral and the novel’s vividly engaging storytelling kept me gripped.
So I admit that I'm the exact right audience for Pat Barker's The Silence of the Girls.
And yet, it still exceeded my expectations.The Silence of the Girls recounts the story of The Iliad as seen through the eyes of Briseis, a Trojan queen taken as a slave by Achilles as his reward for the sack of Lyrnessus.
What I love most about this novel is that Pat Barker strips the story of all that glamorization.
Briseis may still be tied up in Achilles's story, but she is no longer silent.Read more at: https://www.bookofthemonth.com/the-si...
Achilles is only persuaded to rejoin the battle when his best friend, Patroclus, is killed by Hector while wearing Achilles own armour.Barker retells this story but in Briseis' first person words:"I’d become something altogether more sinister: I was the girl who’d caused the quarrel.
We never called him any of those things; we called him ‘the butcher’."The story takes us from the fall of Lyrnessus through to the death of Achilles and the fall of Troy, but in Barker's retelling we get less of the glory and more of the human reality of blood and guts, less of the heroic Greek warriors and more of the stories of the Trojan women, bereaved and handed out as trophies to the very men who killed their own loved ones.
In The Silence of the Girls, author Pat Barker takes an important but mainly silent character from Homer's Iliad and gives her voice.
She is Achilles' war prize: Briseis, an involuntary sex slave.
Barker removes the glory of men from the Trojan War and replaces it with “the brutal reality of conquest and slavery”.
“Yes, the death of young men in battle is a tragedy - I’d lost four brothers, I didn’t need anybody to tell me that.
Some view it as a simple but honest exploration of Achilles and Briseis' relationship in the context of war while others view it as a tribute to the strength of women.
**Warning—this review also contains minor spoilers for the book The Song of Achilles.**While reading The Song of Achilles a few months ago, I was intrigued by a supporting, though unforgettable character in that book named Briseis who tugged at my heartstrings throughout the story.
So I recommend that you skip this book and read The Song of Achilles instead for something truly memorable on this subject, and for a version of this story that honors Briseis much more than what you’ll get in this book.
Importantly I think Gregory never abandons the viewpoint of her female characters as Barker does here – and while I think I can see what she is trying to do (making it clear – as the quotes in Trevor and Neil’s review pick out – that really this can never be the story of Briseis when she is held as a pawn and sex slave, her story only really beings when Achilles is dead) I think ultimately it is to the slight detriment of her aims.PS – the irony that a group of men are choosing to criticise how a woman tells a woman’s story is not lost on me!The other area I have seen criticised in the book is the anachronisms in the story.
How are you writing a feminist reclamation if you're using the exact same events and giving them the same emotional weight and even the same male perspective?I think Barker is vaguely aware of this problem herself, because we do get this passage near the end of the book:Looking back, it seemed to me I’d been trying to escape not just from the camp, but from Achilles’s story; and I’d failed.
Here I was, again, waiting for Achilles to decide when it was time for bed, still trapped, still stuck inside his story, and yet with no real part to play in it.But for all this half-paragraph of protest, Barker's the one who chose to write the book this way.
But this novel is vastly different from the epic film Troy !This is Briseis ( taken from the movie Troy )This is Achilles ( taken from the movie Troy )But this is no epic tale of glory and manly delights; it's a tale told from the perspective of the suffering, silent and doomed women.
Kindle Edition.But Briseis is still luckier than the majority of the women, because at least Achilles didn't rape her.
The overriding atmosphere of the novel is one of pathos, because the reader is immersed into Briseis' world and her abject feeling of powerlessness strikes a chord that remains long after the story has ended.
From the title The Silence of the Girls, one would think that Pat Barker's retelling of the Iliad would center on the women's stories.
Briseis is chosen by Achilles and the beginning of the story is told through her point of view as she watches her city sacked and burned, her husband and brothers killed, among many others.
As they were told as girls, 'silence becomes a woman.'One impression I came away with is the utter senselessness of fighting such a destructive, bloody war over one woman's decision to leave her husband for another man.
This book addresses the Trojan War, primarily from the point of view of Briseis, the queen whose husband and brothers were killed by Achilles (the accomplished warrior who was the son of a mortal and a goddess).
Some of the chapters are written from the point of view of Achilles.
All of the women in the book were collateral damage in the endless war.
Briseis was later taken by Agamemnon, who turned her into his spittoon.
While that book focuses on the Achilles/Patroclus dynamic, this book takes a broader view.
She is the author of several historical fiction novels.Briseis was the mythical queen of Lyrnessus in Asian Minon at the time of the Trojan War. She finds herself trapped in the city walls as the Greeks lay siege to the city.
Briseis is taken prisoner and given to Achilles as a prize by Agamemnon.
She becomes key in the dispute between Achilles and Agamemnon.The story told from the Briseis perspective a queen who is suddenly a slave is exciting in itself since slaves and women never had a voice in that period (mythical or not).
As Barker (through Briseis) notes, there is a story of men and glory presented to the world, but the story that isn't told is one of rape and slavery.
Miller's book does suffer from some of the same sins Barker is so determined to point out here: the rape and slavery of women so easily erased and overlooked.
But I felt like Miller's book had a stronger point of view and a stronger visceral and emotional connection to its story.
In Homer’s Iliad, women do not speak very often, except maybe for the goddesses, and Briseis, the central character of Barker’s novel, has no words at all."'Silence becomes a woman.' Every woman I’ve ever known was brought up on that saying."Here Barker retells the story but from Briseis’ perspective, giving Briseis a voice but also allowing a view into the lives of other women in the story.
But, at the same time, the portrayal of Achilles and two of his most important relationships is a fascinating parallel story.This book has been billed as a “feminist Iliad” and I can see where that comes from.
Author Pat Barker drops you into the brutal, horrific world of the women taken captive during the 10 year Trojan WarI’m conflicted on how to rate this book.
Very little is told from Briseis’ first person perspective, and indeed the narrative pretty much leaves her behind, as she’s barely a blip on Achilles’ radar, despite being his nightly bed slave.The pace really slows down while Achilles wallows in his grief and subsequent rage, and it was an effort to plod through.
Even Briseis (and thus the author) realizes that this book revolves around Achilles.“Because, make no mistake, this was his story-his anger, his grief, his story.
“How was it possible for these high walls that had protected us all our lives to fall?” Having come straight from reading The Beekeeper of Sinjar, a collection of harrowing first-hand accounts of women taken captive by Daesh, to The Silence of the Girls, Pat Barker's reimagining of the legendary Trojan War from a female perspective, it was disconcertingly effortless to step from 21st century Iraq to 13th century BCE Greece. So little, it seems, has altered in parts of the world during the inter
I'm relieved to report that I was far from disappointed.Known for writing on themes of memory, trauma, survival and recovery, it was perhaps unsurprising that Barker should choose to rewrite an ancient Greek epic (the Iliad, in this instance) from the point of view of the beautiful and clever Briseis of Lyrnessus, the mythical wife of Mynes, king of the Cilicians, who was captured during the siege of her homeland.
Nothing is known of what happened to Briseis following his death, but it is likely she became the slave of another Greek warrior.In Barker's hands, the blue-eyed, golden-haired slave is a powerless but calmly unflinching observer of events: a voice for women silenced by history.
I loved how much I loathed him, in this retelling, and I believe this is my favorite portrayal of Achilles because he shows how indifferent he is to the shockwaves of his actions.Both Achilles' brutality was shown, as well as the horrors of the Trojan War. Because we see most of the story told from Briseis' perspective, we are able to witness the mistreatment of the other women in the camp, the barbaric acts of the Greek warriors, and the shock waves of the war and how it changes each person fighting on both sides.
