https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/20647027-the-affair-at-the-victory-ball
Apparently, the notorious case led not only to this short story, but also to a play by Noel Coward and it was certainly a scandalous news story at the time; involving the death of a beautiful young actress due to drug use.Poirot, of course, had already appeared in the novels, “The Mysterious Affair at Styles,” (1920) and “Murder on the Links,” (1923), but this is his first appearance in a short story and, as such, is well worth reading for that reason alone.
Torn from the headlines!
Agatha Christie takes one of the great tabloid stories of immediate post First World War London – the death by drug overdose of Billie Cartleton – and somehow manages to make it both more exciting and more stultifyingly middle class.
In this version there’s a drug overdose and a murder in the same evening, so you get double the death for your money, but the dénouement is one that can easily be sorted out in a drawing room rather than in the more real and dingy streets of the East End. Still, the actual reveal does find Poirot at his most pleasingly melodramatic.
The Affair at the Victory Ball was first published in "Poirot's Early Cases" in 1923.
Unfortunately it is talked about for all the wrong reasons when two people attending the ball end up dead - one from a cocaine overdose and the other stabbed.
Hercule Poirot is called in to investigate and solve this one for Inspector Japp.I'm not really a short story kind of person.
I like to really immerse myself in a mystery of at least 200 pages, but I'm getting highly attached to Agatha Christie's short stories.
The Affair at the Victory Ball was a fun short story and I'm looking forward to picking up another Agatha Christie short story soon.
Poirot astutely on the ball as he catches what the rest of the investigation misses. Interesting details drawn from a real life London incident. Written in 1923 as a first of Christie's short stories.
Kort verhaal van Agatha Christie. Ik hou eigenlijk meer van de langere verhalen.
All ive to say is its awesome and sooo creepy that it gave me nightmares..
A lady leaves a favor dress ball early and is later found to have kicked the bucket from a medications overdose. Hercule Poirot researches in this, the main story expounded on him.
One made to look like an accidental cocaine overdose or suicide (Miss Courtenay) while the other a stabbing.
Why poison someone when you're gonna stab him anyway Poirot pointed out dismissing Japp's theory.Poirot deduces that there must have been a curtained recess even though he has not been to the place before.
Viscount's uncle, lord Cronshaw was to Hastings and Japp the prime suspect but Poirot already knew who the killer was.
Everyone seem to recall six but Poirot points out that there were only five as one person seemed to have manipulated his costume to look like another.
Viscount Cronshaw is found dead at the Victory Ball with a table knife in his heart shortly after fighting with actress Coco Courtenay. Coco herself is later found dead of a cocaine overdose in her bed. Inspector Japp comes to Hercule Poirot and Captain Hastings for help untangling the mystery.A good example of a typical Poirot mystery, keeping all the facts and his observations a secret until the grand reveal before all the people involved with the murder. 4 out of 5.
A double murder mystery set at a masquerade victory ball (after world war 1). The victims/suspects are a group of young british aristocrats/actors dressed as characters from commedia dell'arte. Cocaine plays a central part in the plot. The mystery is presented and solved in typical Christie-style. The killers intent was not fascinating to me in this story. Although the mystery is short, and Christie is able to tell a rich story with few words!
Another good Christie read! It is nice to Poirot from the beginning!
3.25/5
A great Hercule Poirot short story! He's a very clever detective and makes for a good read.
It's a regular type Detective story
Stodgy.I'm looking for a good mystery, but this style isn't it.Agatha Christie isn't my cup of tea.
After a Victory Ball, Lord Cronshaw and his girlfriend were found dead: he stabbed in the super room; she, the next day of a cocaine overdose.Poirot is asked to look over the case and works with Inspector Japp to figure out who murdered them.
There were costumes and mistaken identity based on the costumes which played into Poirot's figuring out who committed the murder.Who done it?
(view spoiler)[ Davidson,a member of the party, killed Lord Cronshaw.
Lord Cronshaw was a staunch opposer of drug use.
Davidson killed him, hid his body and then impersonated him until an opportune moment.
(hide spoiler)]
“The Affair at the Victory Ball” involves a drug dealer claim to self-preservation in the killing of a couple. One, the addict, the other, a suspicious man opposed to vice. As the double death begins to be investigated by Hercule Poirot, what in the beginning seems to be an eerie coincidence of a lover’s demise in the same day, but two different places, turns out to be a crime not as instigating to the curiosity as the suggestion of mysterious coincidence. A pity! This could have been something else entirely, something much better.
Yet another story from the collection titled, Poirot's Early Cases, this is a clever murder mystery involving all the classic elements.A ball is thrown complete with dinner and a performance in which the guests are dressed in costumes. Naturally, someone is murdered and the little Belgian detective must solve the mystery and find the killer.This story is a lot of fun, and I recommend the entire collection.
I've read this countless times. I'll read it countless times more. I love Agatha Christie. I love Hastings, Japp and Poirot. Oh, you little egg shaped headed Belgian and those grey cells of yours. <3 :)
I enjoy the short stories narrated by Captain Hastings. However, I've seen most of the movies based on these stories and already know the outcome. I regret that I saw the movies before reading them.
Good short Hercule Poirot mystery
Superb!
Another great Agatha Christie short story
