https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/99561.Looking_for_Alaska
Alaska was unbearable (oh no wait, she was awesome if you were a character too: fantastic girl,beautiful and wonderful and ohmarrymerightnowplease, and she had to be an intelligent woman, so the author made her feminist and an avid reader, to prove she had brains), and there is no need to write about the boys because...
What a waste of time!2013 EDIT: almost FOUR years have passed since I read and reviewed Looking for Alaska and I hope nobody expects me to discuss anything related to the book.
After Looking for Alaska, I read other John Green's books.
It's sad that Looking for Alaska didn't work for me but I think it is wonderful that it did for you.
My assistant Amanda has been a John Green fan for ages, which is one of the reasons I decided to start giving his stuff a read.
I decided to start here because it was one of his first books.
After I finished this book, I went to her and asked, "Are all of John Green's books going to leave me feeling like I've had a hole kicked straight through my guts?""Not all of them," she said.
I mentioned a particular scene in my first book.) "Well," Amanda said, "Not really.
"Sorry about that." So yeah.
i think i wanted to emphasize that it definitely reads like a book intended for a teen audience.
and i liked it, too, but i think it would have been more important and surprising and enchanting to me as a kid - all the first love and first loss type stuff, all the unwritten behavioral codes between the teens and the authority figures, and the slow unravel of a mystery.
I did not cry.But, John Green still managed to hit me where it really hurt.And it was awesome.
That's me, realizing I was about to give a big one star to a super popular book on Goodreads. It didn't stop me. This book was beyond stupid.Miles is a little nerd boy from Florida, he is going away to boarding school hoping for a new life or maybe his "Great Perhaps". The Great Perhaps comes from a minute reference to some poet. Thrown in to this book to make it all edgy and shit. Fail. Once he gets there his roommate (the requisite character that is so poor but super smart) befriends him. The
That's me, realizing I was about to give a big one star to a super popular book on Goodreads.
This book was beyond stupid.Miles is a little nerd boy from Florida, he is going away to boarding school hoping for a new life or maybe his "Great Perhaps".
The Colonel aka Chip takes Miles (now known as Pudge) under his wing and now he has friends!Including the super special Alaska, she is the beautiful, cool and allusive girl.
You just put every stupid stereotype known into the characters that are southern for this book.
(hide spoiler)] My southern ass will give this book a big ole "hell to the no."
I know, you are saying, "listen, you stupid idiot, Alaska didn't abuse puppies, she only abused other's people's kindness, took advantage of people, emotionally manipulated people and was an all around piss poor person that used her own poor past to lash out".
Oh, ok, I see what you mean, nope, not a puppy kicker...clearly I'm wrong.Below is the old rant/review...enjoyI'm totally going to regret putting this review in and I'll probably change it later but oh...what...the...hell....Poor Alaska.
In fact, they had destructive behavior that needed to be addressed as well but since this book is called “Looking for Alaska”, I’m going to focus on Alaska.Many people had really shitty childhoods.
She and the Colonel had taken the fall for me to show me how it was done, so I would know what to do when the time came Ok, then—I guess that's what happened, except that's just not the way high school kids work.Even word choice reveals fear we won't get it; if an author has to tell you FIVE TIMES in the book that the character "deadpanned" instead of "said" (the Colonel"deadpanned" three times and Pudge, just a little less dry I guess, "deadpanned" twice) then either the dialogue is not written well or the author believes it is not written well.
She's really not that bad.Then we really get to know her and I'm likeThen ALL this stuff happens and I don't know what to expect, because now we're at the After part, and I'm excited...Then BAM!And I'm like...Because there is NO WAY that can happen and I'm pretty sure someone is playing a sick, sick joke on me.Then I realize its not a joke, and the waterworks start flowing...And I'm like...And...Then I finally calm down...And I'm trying to stay strong and remember it's only a book so I'm like...Then I can't help myself and go back to ugly crying...Then FINALLY...
This was the first book I ever read by John Green.
I really enjoyed the story, but I think I would have liked it even more if I wasn't already past that point in my life.
Even still, I loved this book.Miles is in search for the great perhaps, and has a fascination with famous last words.
You will probably feel some excitement, sadness, and maybe even a little anger reading this book, but I think this book will be memorable.
I thought that was a really neat tool that helped build suspense.Looking For Alaska is a book I still love and recommend years later, and occasionally still think about.
Looking for Alaska was something in between.Characters:Miles, the main character, is as interesting and charming as toast.
Way too many cigarettes - which really annoys me.
Yeah, teens smoke out of stupidity but why write about it, and, in a way, promote it.
Listen guys, smoking: not cool.Thoughts:I don't get the point.
(view spoiler)[Alaska's death didn't move me.
(hide spoiler)] This book sure is overrated, but not bad.
The dialogues are okay and the pranks are fun, but I don't feel like this must have been written.Find more of my books on Instagram
First time hearing about this book;Friend online gushes on how amazing and fantabulous this book is. Me: Okay, I'll check it out. Plus it's cool since I was born in Alaska. The book is about Alaska right?Friend: *laughs*Me: O__o It's not about Alaska?Friend: *still laughing*Me: IT'S NOT ABOUT ALASKA?The End. True Story.
That was shown here in the Philippines when I was in my first year of working after college and I was able to relate to many of its characters so I watched it twice or thrice.
Those classmates-friends we had in college tend to stick with us after our school years as we normally land in the same field or industry.
That’s why I could imagine the anxiety he felt facing his own “Great Perhaps” when he made his first step towards the boarding school, Culver Creek.
It also took me much longer to read than I thought it would.
Having read An Abundance of Katherines and Paper Towns first, I can say that Green seems to repeat a lot of the same themes and personalities.
This may have been his first book, but it was probably my least favorite of the ones I've already read.
(And no, I will not read The Fault in Our Stars for reasons.)The one thing I did like about this book and saved it from being a 1 star was the bufriedo, which is a fried burrito.
Did not finish. This book was just too much--too much smoking, drinking, sex, and foul language. As a teenager, I hated it then and I don't want to rehash it now. I didn't care about any of the characters except Miles and I hated how he just went along with everything thrown in his path without a second thought--the smoking, drinking, porn, etc.
Here's me acknowledging the power of John Green. And hats off!No, this one is not as bittersweet as "The Fault in Our Stars", but still, this is unputdownable supreme! Its the type of literature that gets one excited about reading, about reminiscing about adolescence and school. Because everyone has had a childhood, a first love, a stage of rebellion, this type of book strikes inner chords & you swiftly become infected with the virus of nostalgia. To read one of his novels is to remember that you were once new & naive, too!
This is exceedingly rare for me, but it's just that bad.Our hero, Miles Halter, is a weird, spoiled kid who likes reading the ends of biographies just to get people's last words.
The supposedly deep thoughts of the kids are clearly tacked on - it's not natural for Alaska to go from "OMG he honked my boob" (her words, not mine) to "General Bolivar wondered 'How will I ever get out of this labyrinth?'" Every time Miles mentioned his Great Perhaps, I wanted to clobber someone.
Final rating: 4.5/5 stars  "Teenagers think they are invincible" with that sly, stupid smile on their faces, they don't know how right they are. We need never be hopeless, because we can never be irreparably broken. We think that we are invincible because we are."  Loved it! I couldn't put it down - just like i expected. John Green is seriously talented, and even though i don't like this book as much as i love his "The Fault in Our Stars", it was still wonderful book.I have to admit that i was o
"Teenagers think they are invincible" with that sly, stupid smile on their faces, they don't know how right they are.
John Green is seriously talented, and even though i don't like this book as much as i love his "The Fault in Our Stars", it was still wonderful book.I have to admit that i was on verge of crying on almost every page from the "After" part.
But, it was beautiful ending, and i loved it :)
Takumi was great too, even though i wished there was more of him; Lara was here and there, likeable and cute girl and in the end we have Alaska...
(Less so with An Abundance of Katherines, I must admit, but most of the elements are still there so I’m counting it) In every book (An Abundance of Katherines, Paper Towns, Looking for Alaska) our hero is a slightly awkward but likable young man who has some quirky obsession and quirky friends.
I first read this book in 2008 when I was 14 and it turned out to be the book that sparked my love for literature.I've always loved reading, but before that I only read for the sake of entertainment.
Looking for Alaska was the first book that I thoroughly enjoyed reading, but that simultaneously and more importantly, made me think about greater issues in life for a long time after I had finished reading.Now that I'm 21, I understand that while this remains to be a highly philosophical book, it's not the "deepest" and most perfect book ever.
i truly appreciated all of the comments i got after marking this as ‘currently reading’ most of which were something along the lines of “oooo ur gonna hate this”but i have a secret: this book is my twilight *cue that gasp oh yeah* just like how most ya readers return to bella and edward’s “love story” to feel their teenage warm & fuzzies, looking for alaska throws me back to my most angst-filled, awkward middle school times when i believed that the words of john green, internet dweller and intelligent person™️ was the epitome of fiction.
The story of this is long and somewhat personal, so feel free to skip this part if you just want to know if the book is good.I first heard of Looking for Alaska in my thesis workshop, when a girl very snidely told me I'd have to take out part of my own book because it sounded very similar to this book she'd heard about on NPR, which had not even come yet out at that point.
And a stiff drink or twelve.Looking for Alaska is about normal, skinny Miles Halter, quickly nicknamed Pudge, who gets into Culver Creek Boarding School and leaves in search of something more interesting.
I love the vlogbrothers videos and the first chapter really made me want to read it and find out more but it didn't live up to the expectation that the first few chapters set up.
My main problem with the book was the characters.
Alaska and Miles just pissed me off.
I let some of it slide by because I understand certain parts were intentional but Miles was just so whiny.
I have since read another John Green book and I truly loved it.
So, please, go and but another of his books and truly enjoy the author that is John Green.
My favorite from John Green. This reminds me of high school.
The leading main character is almost always bland and boring, take for example, Paper Towns or this book, Looking for Alaska.
Now, the way I see it, most of Green's books feel like these little cards have been pulled out at random, and the story was based upon them.
If I could describe this book in a few random words, it would be: excessive teenage smoking, teenage rebellion, drinking, unlikeable characters.
Plot: This book was entertaining to read, in the way that it's wasn't boring, even though it pretty much had no plot.
But...The characters in this book smoke.
If people were rain, I was drizzle and she was a hurricane. Throughout the book, extremely loud and incredibly close soundtrack came to my mind the whole time. The melody fits the story so well.I never thought Miles "Pudge" Halter's turning point in life would be like that. Absolutely, totally, completely life-changing difference before and after. It's like, well, experiencing a heartbroken and mysterious loss at school. Ironically, he went to Alabama in search of his so-called "Great Perhaps"
The melody fits the story so well.I never thought Miles "Pudge" Halter's turning point in life would be like that.
It's a come-of-age book about life and death, mortality and immortality, faith and despair.
Do you think it's important to like people you read about?My answer is yes and no.
Yes, I like Alaska Young in the book because she was portrayed as a witty, humorous, sexy, but self-destructive and always felt screwed up everything in her life.
Change the way we think about the death/depress we all have to face someday.
Looking for Alaska is my second John Green book. Even though it was very different than TFiOS, it was still emotional, moving and just quirky enough to make me smile and laugh. Miles Halter's moves to Alabama to go to boarding school. This is his big adventure. A chance to make some friends, live a life bigger than the one he's been living in Florida. On his first day there, he becomes friends with his roommate, my favorite and most memorable character, Chip aka the Colonel. He also meets a gir
Looking for Alaska is my second John Green book.
Even though it was very different than TFiOS, it was still emotional, moving and just quirky enough to make me smile and laugh.
Miles Halter's moves to Alabama to go to boarding school.
On his first day there, he becomes friends with his roommate, my favorite and most memorable character, Chip aka the Colonel.
This is one of those stories that is so difficult to summarize/review.
What I can say is that John Green's characters are relatable and easy to love.
There are so many great quotes and moments in this story.
That is what Looking for Alaska is all about.
No es una mala novela.
Lo popular no siempre es malo.No es el tipo de novelas que suelo leer, pero quise darle una oportunidad a esta historia.
No le tenía muy buenas expectativas, sin embargo me encontré con una escritura madura, un relato correctamente hilvanado y una trama que abordaba un tema muy delicado como es la muerte.
Lo negativo que tiene este libro son el final: muy predecible y absurdo, y los personajes: no me sentí identificado con ninguno.
Green generalizó a los adolescentes como sexo, alcohol y descontrol.
Asimismo, sus formas de hablar y de comportarse son irreales y presuntuosas.
What was I doing reading John Green's Looking for Alaska when I famously (coughs) despised large parts of the author's An Abundance of Katherines?
I disliked it enough to feel mean and want to give John Green another shot before writing him off forever as a potential book friend.
I definitely do not want to read another Maberry book.) The John Green formula (is this is first book?
I like looking into stories about lives because of last words.
What Clementine had, and Alaska didn't, is enough of a life outside Miles's perspective.
I'll probably not read another John Green book.
In Looking For Alaska, John Green tells the story of Miles, a smart, skinny teen who decides to go to the same boarding school his father attended in the hopes of finding a different life.
The chapters then begin to count up, “The Day After,” “Twenty Days After.” Miles and his friends are faced with many questions about just what happened.
Miles often uses this class, and his favorite famous last words quotes, to try to find the answers to some of life’s big questions.
It’s a difficult thing to wrap your head around.In Looking for Alaska there is a sudden, stupid death and I thought John Green told that story perfectly.
In fact, so spot on that it took me right back to a time when this happened to me.
One of the characters said something like “No, no….you’re lying .
It’s not possible their dead, stop lying to me.” I said the same thing to the coroner.
Shit like that will change a person.
I am not the same person I was before that moment, that girl is dead and gone.
