https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3275756-the-journal-of-a-disappointed-man
(I have a very low resistance to rows of old Penguin paperbacks.) It is an extraordinary book, unlike any non-fiction I’ve read before.
Realising that he is dying, he chronicles his thoughts and feelings about it, with a moving vividness that never descends into glum morbidity.Barbellion (a rather splendid pseudonym) writes alternately of his internal life and external events, although I found the former more striking.
I wanted to reassure Barbellion that, although I can’t imagine how terrible his suffering was, I certainly relate to his thoughts about life, death, and ambition.
Not even Death can rob me of that honour.
And when I am dead, the matter which composes my body is indestructible—and eternal, so that come what may to my 'Soul,' my dust will always be going on, each separate atom of me playing its separate part — I shall still have some sort of a finger in the pie.
When I am dead, you can boil me, burn me, drown me, scatter me — but you cannot destroy me: my little atoms would merely deride such heavy vengeance.
Death can do no more than kill you."
What a beautiful book, a beautiful book. It's so honest and deep. Sad and tragic yet touching and life changing. I felt like a different person once I put it down. As I closed the book, I thought I lost a friend, a very very close-friend. Barbellion is my new hero.PS:You can read it for free here or here
'If I go to a sculpture gallery, .
I will be a sculptor.
If I go to the opera, then I am going to take up music seriously.
Or if I get a new beast .
But something does, and with a wrench I turn away presently to fresh pastures.
Life is a series of wrenches, I tremble for the fixity of my purposes; and as you know so well, I am an ambitious man, and my purposes are very dear to me.
You see what a trembling, colour-changing, invertebrate, jelly-fish of a brother you have .
Hey, if H.G. Wells liked it enough to write a preface, it's got to be up my alley. So far, it's adorable... but I'm just in the teen years. I feel one of those moments coming on, where I feel total communion with an author. I greatly anticipate this.
Esta mierda cambió básicamente mi vida para siempre.
Es maravilloso de principio a fin.
Lo empecé por casualidad y va a ser de los libros que dejen huella.Barbellion, que padecía esclerosis múltiple aunque lo supo después, ve como sus sueños de convertirse en naturalista se trunca por su falta de formación, y aunque consiguió un puesto en el Museo Británico de Ciencias Naturales en el departamento de Entomología nunca llegó a labrarse un nombre.
Las primeras entradas cuando era sólo un niño aprendiendo a ser naturalista son curiosas, cuando ya los últimos años la enfermedad ocupa casi todo el tiempo la lectura se vuelve más profunda, donde la muerte inminente,el amor a su esposa y las ambiciones rotas ocupan casi todo el contenido.
He also reveals his deep emotional fears and shares his existential dilemmas and, as a naturalist by passion, ponders upon many Scientific observations and studies..Barbellion's prose is poetic..
The human being by nature and necessity is neither egoist nor altruist; he trims a difficult course between the two; for the most part we are, within the limits of our powers of expression, egotists, and our desire is to think and if possible talk and write about this marvellous experiment of ourselves, with all the world—or as much as we can conveniently assemble—for audience.
I, I your humble servant, am a scientific man, devoted to the clear statement of truth," and ends with so passionate a statement of truth that self is forgotten altogether..
And it is totally relevant to everything that the philosophically-minded reader has probably been turning over in their own minds for years and years, our cosmic insignificance, the fact that life is terrible but worth living anyway, the nature of truth and falsity, etc, and because Barbellion goes through almost the whole range of possible feelings and views on every subject he raises, it feels like he has uploaded his soul onto the page and then we find that our own souls overlap with his at many points.
"Sînt atît de adîncit în mine – în dispozitiile mele, în idei, în ticuri - , atît de absorbit de mine, încît nu pot să mă detaşez de date, să pun în ordine şi să clasific multitudinea de fapte şi astfel să conchid ce fel de om sînt. Mi-ar plăcea să ştiu – fie şi din pură curiozitate. Deci ce Dumnezeu sînt? Fireşte, în primul rînd un neghiob – dar restul diagnosticului?"
Indrukwekkend
a haunting journal tracing the diarist's transformation from an aspiring zoologist to a patient dealing with the gradual effects of multiple sclerosis.
He is full of youthful energy and grandiloquent pronunciations about love, death, and the meaning of life, but flits from one thoughtless romantic entanglement to another, and radiates with contemptuous conceit towards the 'ordinary' working-men that form the background of his impoverished surroundings, when he spares them a thought at all.
It is a wonderful book to read from an eloquent young diarist from the Victorian era, in whose dreams, energies, loves, and ultimate defeat from an inevitable death we may recognize ourselves..
Profoundly moving diary of a self-trained zoologist who died at age 30 in 1919 (the year this was published). The early sections contain observations and commentary on flora and fauna, the middle sections become more personal and literary as they chronicle his failing health, courtship and marriage, and the final section develops into a philosophical view of life and death. Frank and beautiful.
„N-am decât douăzeci și opt de ani, dar în anii aceștia puțini am comprimat o viață destul de lungă: am iubit și m-am căsătorit și am o familie; am plâns și m-am bucurat, am luptat și am învins, iar când va veni ceasul voi fi mulțumit să mor.”
Such a despondent read... like the worst dream of a creative tormentor.
Apalagi banyak ilmu pengetahuan yang dijabarkan menjadikan jurnal ini mirip buku pelajaran, kosakata yang kurang, dan ditambah lagi konsentrasi yang buruk dan kemampuan mata yang sering menurun membuat saya semakin susah mengerti :DPemikiran seperti "ah saya juga berpendapat seperti itu" atau "ah saya juga mungkin akan melakukan itu" kadang terlintas di pikiran saya saat membacanya.
Karena memiliki lebih banyak perbedaan daripada persamaan, saya akan merasa senang apabila bisa berteman dengan Mr. Barbellion.Di balik pemahaman yang minim jurnal ini memang bagus dan wajib dibaca karena itulah maka jadinya bintang 4.
Semoga suatu saat akan ada kesempatan lagi untuk membaca ulang.Membaca jurnal ini mengajarkan bahwa manusia boleh saja merencanakan sesuatu tetapi tetap Tuhanlah yang menentukan segalanya.
I will say of this journal what the author wrote of another:“how we should have hated one another!
She feels as I feel.
We have the same self-absorption, the same vanity and corroding ambition.
She is impressionable, volatile, passionate – ill!
Her journal is my journal.
All mine is stale reading now.
She has written down all my thoughts and forestalled me!
Already I have found some heartrending parallels.
To think I am only a replica: how humiliating for a human being to find himself merely a duplicate of another.
Is there anything in the transmigration of souls?”
This is the journal of a man with a passion for nature. I wasn't too thrilled about knowing the details of how he catched and killed insects and birds. I understand he was doing so to learn about their anatomy. But... I'm still not a fan. Anyway, so this man had a disease, multiple sclerosis, which complicated the pursue of his passion. His health deteriorated while World War I was happening. It was an interesting read.
Wow. The man was a humorist if nothing else. While this journal did chronicle his battle with MS, it was a ultimately a love story.I was especially interested in the inadequacy of his treatment - arson and strychnine? It makes we wonder about MS treatment today, and if it is not as misguided and barbaric as poison. Ah, but we are doomed or blessed to live in the present. Come what may.
Un libro duro. Primero viene el desencanto por una carrera que no responde a las ambiciones del autor, desencanto con las mujeres, desencanto con la enfermedad, con la guerra y finalemente con la muerte.Algunas entradas del diario son muy conmovedoras.
o recitesc cu mare placere de fiecare data,
Ambition curbed by ill health (MS)
recensie volgt
El día que me lo compré el señor de la librería me dijo que era el mejor libro que había vendido en todo el día. Por lo que a mí respecta, el tema me toca muy de cerca y me es imposible hablar mucho de él sin emocionarme. Solo puedo decir que entiendo el comentario que me soltó el hombre. Y añadiría una nota más a pie de página que diría algo así como: puta esclerosis.
Nici nu-i de mirare că Cioran a fost fascinat de jurnalul ăsta, ținând cont că ,oartea și reacția omului în fața unei morți iminente sunt temele principale.Trecând peste momentele în care Barbellion chiar pare a se lamenta patetic, în stilul dulceag, pentru a atrage atenție, este o carte care trebuie citită în mod obligatoriu.
Rereading it now that I am older and recently faced to possibility of my own death, I found that I was absorbing this book as well as reading it.A quick summary.
As he ages and becomes more sick, the diary takes on more of his musings about life and death and dissections of his personality.The challenge to any reviewer of this work is which of the moving and brilliant quotes to include.
I had never heard of this book when I picked it up in my favourite bookshop (though generally I want to read everything there, preferably in its charming cafe).
The title is a bold one, but it didn't prepare me for an angry, self-centred, brutally honest diary of a clever, arrogant young man who feels he is disadvantaged by his class and his lack of formal higher education, though one can't help feeling that his very disagreeableness must at times have counted against him.
Hay páginas que duelen y en términos generales uno se va embargado por la tristeza.
Es mucho más que eso.
Y eso es lo admirable del autor.
Es ahí en donde las palabras destacan por encima de las penurias (su venganza contra ellas) y se elevan hasta lugares donde nadie en bonanza y comodidad podría llegar.Quisiera abrazar a Barbellion.
Ojalá hubiera forma de hacerle saber que su trabajo es admirado y respetado en la anomalía del siglo XXI.
Ojalá uno pudiera darle ese consuelo.No podría relacionarme con nadie que le diera menos de cinco estrellas a estos diarios.
Off and on for the last month, I have lived inside the mind of an ambitious young entomologist at the British Museum as his body succumbed to multiple sclerosis against the backdrop of World War I.
Barbellion died on December 31."(As I now know, the writer, whose real name was Bruce Frederick Cummings, lived a little longer and was able to write more essays.
I like the insolence of it.""It is so ignoble to be tinkering about in a Museum among Scarabees and insects when I ought to be reflecting on life and death."
Barbellion is at times incredibly honest, and you certainly get to see him 'warts and all', which I liked.
If we are brutally honest, I believe that we all, like Barbellion, are a real mix of 'good and bad' when it comes to our thoughts, attitudes, desires etc.
As I read the journal I felt like I was meeting the real man, not just the public persona.As someone who suffers from multiple sclerosis I found this book very poignant and rather sobering, but at the same time it was also very encouraging and uplifting.
