https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2916277-the-garden-of-survival
We are informed of his having been married for a very short time --his wife, a vision of beauty and possessing a special talent to bewitch admirers by playing her alluring harp for them is Je ne se quoi personified, it seems.
In fact, even long after her death, Blackwood spends a good third of the book recounting for us the extent to which Richard truly believes his soul has been positively vanquished and seduced by his wife.
It’s a beautiful story, but not the ending I had envisaged.
An idea rather than a story.
This novella is terrible.
There's nothing I could say here that I haven't already said in my reviews of his other novels, because this has the exact same pitfalls as every other Blackwood novel (and many of his short stories): no plot or discernible story, neither action nor buildup, no tension, no purpose, and an overwhelming blanketing of Blackwood's spiteful disdain for reason, evidence, and rationality thrown in anywhere he could put it, regardless of how unnecessary it was for the story.So happy is the main character (who, as it turns out, has very little "character" to him of any kind) to wallow in his own ignorance that he at one point says he doesn't need any "so-called evidence" to believe he's right.
A narrative told in the first person in the way of a letter from Richard to his twin brother.
This book is not only about the wondrous tales of his life, career and travels, but moreover of the finding in a personal and conscience way the true meaning of beauty and of love.
“The solution of this problem of unrequited loved lay at last within her grasp; of a love that only asked to give of its unquenched and unquenchable store, undismayed by the total absence of response.” As Blackwood writes this story with his well-known articulation for all things beautiful and even grotesque, he adds a plot twist that is gut wrenching; which afterward you cannot stop reading until the end——if only to be certain.

This is a story of a military man's man who was inspired by a presence outside of himself that slowly led him to a great epiphany in his life regarding love, beauty, truth, death and eternity.
The story takes the form of a letter from one twin brother to the other.
I found it very moving, and Blackwood gets extra points in many of his stories for understanding those secret pangs of the human heart.
With this story, it may not be everyone's cup of tea, but those out searching will find something to think about here.
Ever since I finished the book I have been trying to collect my thoughts on it and have had the damnedest time doing so. At first I was bored with it, then intensely drawn and it ended almost treading water. It seems like he is actually touching on several things in this novel, almost to many things, reincarnation, fall of man from the garden of Eden, and knowing God, just to name a few. Probably worth a rereading in a few years.
Blackwood is one of those authors that is either hit or miss. This story was a total miss. He rambled on and on in overly romantic fashion without ever delivering a real story.
