https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/24192.The_Runaway_Jury
The Runaway Jury, John GrishamThe Runaway Jury is a legal thriller novel written by American author John Grisham. تاریخ نخستین خوانش: روز دوم ماه اکتبر سال 1998 میلادیعنوان: هیئت منصفه فراری؛ نویسنده: جان گریشام؛ مترجم: محمد قصاع؛ تهران، پیکان 1375؛ در 547 ص؛ چاپ دیگر: نشر آسیم، 1385؛ شابک: 9644182839؛این کتاب انگار با سه عنوان منتشر شده است: «هیئت منصفه فراری، مترجم: محمد قصاع»، «دختر انتقامجو، مترجم: مهدی علوی، در 624 ص» و «سوگند خورده فراری، مترجم: فریده مهدوی دامغانی» ا. شربیانی
This is the worst of the Grishams that I've read.What annoyed me the most was the sheer implausibility of the whole story.
I would prefer to have someone to root for in a book, and when you are not privy to the motivations or goals of the main character (when, in essence, you have no idea whether he's a decent guy or a selfish jerk) you can't feel invested in that character or the story.
Nicholas Easter, juror number 2 and a mysterious woman known as Marlee conspire to manipulate the jury to secure a verdict in a landmark trial involving a widow plaintiff (whose husband died of lung cancer because of cigarette addiction) and a big tobacco company.
They have to play with both sides (the plaintiff and the defense) and go up against a cunning jury consultant Rankin Fitch who is an expert in jury manipulations.
Fitch works for the defense.The Runaway Jury is an intensely suspenseful legal thriller.
Perhaps Grisham's novels are like cigarettes with nicotine substances which make them so addictive.
3.75 stars. Not my favourite John Grisham novel, but it was face paced and a overall good time!
Thank God this is a work of fiction.If the book had even the tiniest modicum of truth it would render trials by jury obsolete.As a work of fiction, it is a very enjoyable read.
The lengths that the tobacco magnates are prepared to go to in an effort to corrupt the jury would make the CIA look like a bunch of amateurs.
But not to be outdone, the two wunderkinds, one in the jury and the other one on the outside, are just as good at the art of skulduggery.
The Good: The beginning and very end of this book were very fast-paced and enticing.
The plot-line of this book was very original.The Bad: I felt like I was reading the Bible at times: So many characters were introduced throughout the entirety of the book, and it was difficult to keep up with them and their various personalities.
It was also difficult to keep up with the varying attempts to sabotage a fair trial.
The Ugly:I got bored towards the middle of the book and had to force myself to continue reading.
However, they don't need to worry as seasoned expert Fitch comes to the rescue with his pool of money and ability to operate outside the law.The jury is selected in a rush of activity as the experts scramble to analyse every detail of their lives.
Grisham often includes themes of absolute power corrupting absolutely and the ability to buy oneself out of any and every situation.
There is no violence and there are just a few references to sexual activity that aren't graphic.For those who aren't sure whether they will enjoy John Grisham, this is a good place to start.
The readers of The Runaway Jury will continue to follow the twist and turns in the tobacco trial and observe the goings on in the jury room to see what happens to Nicholas Easter and the other jurors.
I do not always enjoy John Grisham books, but I did enjoy reading The Runaway Jury.
The Runaway Jury is a fantastic legal drama and was well written and researched by John Grisham.
Also, The Runaway Jury highlights the legal system in The United States of America for the readers.
কযারেকটারে কারেকটারে ভরপুর কযারেকটারবান থরিলার। -_- এতই কযারেকটারবান যে কিছু দূর গেলেই ভুলে যেতে হয় আগে কে, কি কারনে ছিল।আবার কিছু জায়গায় দৌড়াইছে তো কিছু জায়গায় ঘুমা পাড়ায় দিছে। -_-৪০০পেজের বইয়ের কাহিনীটারে ৩লাইনে বলে ফেলা যায়। এত গুলান পেজ না বাড়াইলেও পারত। কষতি কিছু হইত না উলটা কাহিনী টানটান হয়ে যেত।পলট নিয়ে কিছু বলার নাই যথেষটই ইনটারেসটিং। সিগারেট খাইতে খাইতে ফুসফুসের কযানসারে মারা যাওয়া বযকতি সতরী সিগারেট কোমপানীর বিরুদধে মামলা ঠুকে দিয়েছে বিধবা করার দায়ে!! বাকি গুতাগুতি টুকু এই মামলাটা নিয়ে
ক্যারেক্টারে কারেক্টারে ভরপুর ক্যারেক্টারবান থ্রিলার। -_- এতই ক্যারেক্টারবান যে কিছু দূর গেলেই ভুলে যেতে হয় আগে কে, কি কারনে ছিল।আবার কিছু জায়গায় দৌড়াইছে তো কিছু জায়গায় ঘুমা পাড়ায় দিছে। -_-৪০০পেজের বইয়ের কাহিনীটারে ৩লাইনে বলে ফেলা যায়। এত গুলান পেজ না বাড়াইলেও পারত। ক্ষতি কিছু হইত না উল্টা কাহিনী টানটান হয়ে যেত।প্লট নিয়ে কিছু বলার নাই যথেষ্টই ইন্টারেস্টিং। সিগারেট খাইতে খাইতে ফুসফুসের ক্যান্সারে মারা যাওয়া ব্যক্তি স্ত্রী সিগারেট কোম্পানীর বিরুদ্ধে মামলা ঠুকে দিয়েছে বিধবা করার দায়ে!! বাকি গুতাগুতি টুকু এই মামলাটা নিয়ে।
He could grill her for hours, maybe days about the specifics but he knew there would be no answers...."But of course the plot cannot be that simple; and we have to wade through this tantalizing work to know the unadorned truth in the end.
Typical of his works, the author reveals the sleazy nature of the law and legal practitioners.
Yet the author clearly pitches his tent with the victims of smoking, as the story peters to an end.
Those against smoking carry the day, and it becomes illuminating as we read: "(My parents) were wonderful people...they got hooked on cigarettes when they were in college...
It was okay... It definitely felt like more of a shot fired at the tobacco companies. It should have focused more on the story instead. As such, there isn't a huge amount of drama. There are tons of Grisham books so I'd advise you start elsewhere, like A Time to Kill. All in all, this was just a bit drab for my liking.
Saw the movie before reading the book and glad it closely followed the story written by Grisham.
With the help of a young, strange woman on his team, this juror begins a twisted battle with those favoring the tobacco's case, and soon Fitch realizes he no longer has the jury following his lead.
Thus, Fitch employs a more dangerous plan which will begin costing people's lives if he proves successful.I read this book sometime after I saw the movie in 2004 because I enjoyed it so much.
I wish more romance authors would write like him, but add romance.REVIEWER’S OPINION:For another book someone wrote “literary slugger John Grisham returns with a story about...” I thought how true.
During the story I enjoyed the way bad guy Fitch was frequently surprised and shocked at what Marlee and Nicholas did with the jury.
I was always eager to get back to it.One of the things Grisham does in this story that too many other mystery and suspense authors don’t do is watching Fitch and his people do smart things to solve the mystery.
4.5*I loved this book.I thought it was a little long, and at times I got bored, which I justified by putting myself is in the shoes of those poor jurors who spent all that time in court.
We also don't really know why Nicholas/Jeff goes along with this, the whole living in secrecy and moving around every few years, following every single tobacco trial.
Well, other than the fact that he loves her, and, predictably, doesn't like tobacco companies either ever since he worked at a law firm.
Also, we only know about Marlee and Nicholas what they want us to know about them.
The tobacco companies hire the villain of the novel, Rankin Fitch, to make sure they don’t lose the case.
What Fitch hadn’t anticipated was Nicholas Easter, jury member #2, who intentionally worked his way onto the jury for the sole purpose of getting access to some of that tobacco money.
Marlee had personal motivation for getting even with the tobacco companies, and she’d prepared for years for this opportunity.
I’m not sure everything that Easter, Marlee, and Fitch pulled off in the novel couldn't easily be done, if at all.
3.5 starsAn engaging legal drama - I liked it but didn't love it.It dragged a bit in places and lost believability in others.Overall it's an entertaining tale with lots of twists, turns and sub-plots but I cared little for any of the characters.This one is all about the story.
Per non parlare della storia in sé, che si sapeva già come sarebbe andata a finire: c'è una vedova di un fumatore incallito, morto di cancro ai polmoni, che intenta una causa contro le multinazionali del tabacco.
A queste domande sarà chiamato a rispondere Rankin Fitch prima che la giuria emetta il suo verdetto...Come detto prima, un commento alla storia descritta nel libro è davvero superfluo visto che già in partenza si capisce chi sono i buoni, i cattivi e come lo stesso romanzo si concluderà.
Again, Grisham shines in this legal thriller, that I want to immediately pick up his next book on my list...But I resist the temptation, as I know I will be sick of legal sta\uff halfway through it.
It is a major orchestration of a con that is not completely a con, for the reason that the money was returned; but of course after it was used to capitalize on "inside" trading of stocks.For whatever it's worth, I enjoyed this book immensely, and in the end, that counts a lot.
I actually, started this book long back but due to some unknown reasons I left it in the middle, but once I resumed I found it very much interesting!!
It is indeed a powerful legal story, which introduces the legal system of America to foreigners!!The Runaway Jury is an intensely suspensefullegal thriller.
I could feel my heart pounding asI read the last pages of the book.
The booktackles a lot of important points aboutcigarette smoking which make the story moreinteresting.
All Grisham's novels are more or less of the same interesting plot with some legal additives and thrilling points.
My 5th Grisham book! The plot held my interest from beginning to end, and was very fast paced. I had seen the movie a while back starring John Cusack, Dustin Hoffman, Gene Hackman, and Rachel Weisz, and the book had kind of the same premise but only the book is about a lawsuit of a Tobacco company, and in the movie it's a gun manufacturer.Some parts of the book were complicated and hard to follow but it still held my interest wondering what would happen next. Highly recommended to anybody who likes a good legal thriller.
This early courtroom thriller from John Grisham mainly moves at a sedate pace, but is still an engrossing read. The plot centres round a civil suit brought against a large tobacco company in Biloxi, Mississippi. Those charged with defending the tobacco company baulk at nothing to secure the verdict they want. Bribery and intimidation appear to be the order of the day for some unfortunate jurors. However, mysterious couple Nicholas and Marlee are also pulling strings to achieve the verdict they are after. It isn't until the final faster chapters that we get to see who wins.
He is trying to make it big because he knows if he wins this trial there are many more smokers with lung cancer out there for him to have his own choice of trials.The tobacco company’s lawyer is Durwood Cable, but he isn’t really talked about too much.
The main person who fights for the tobacco company the most is Rankin Fitch.
Eventually Fitch catches on to what Nicholas and the mysterious woman are doing and tries to get them to sway to the tobacco company’s side.
Esto que voy a decir es muy extraño para mí, pero es que no puedo decir absolutamente NADA malo de este libro.Me ha encantado en todos los sentidos, y debo decir que cuando lo empecé no me lo esperaba en absoluto, puesto que las primeras páginas están cargadas de vocabulario jurídico y pueden resultar algo desconcertantes.
No obstante, este lapso de incertidumbre por el que todos pasamos al empezar un libro desconocido dura bastante poco, lo que agradecí enormemente.
2.5 stars this wasn't grisham's best work, in my opinion. there were a million characters that were introduced and i started to lose track of who was who in the middle of the book. a lot of the sentences were also short and choppy. however, i did love to see all the manipulation that occurred- it was so outlandish, but also believable. i'll watch the movie later today to compare the 2! also, happy new year, everyone!
Lawyers on both teams seem to be willing to do just about anything to win the case -- especially since the stakes aren't just the potential high award of this case, but a whole slew of similar cases that would likely be filed if the plaintiff wins.Some minor plot points are a little bit unrealistic -- but they're close enough: there's usually enough of a justification that you can just continue on with the story if you don't think about it in too much detail.
No problem.If you're looking to read a Grisham book, I suggest this one.
There are people hired to help in the jury picking process, and they study every aspect of a potential juror's life.
The process by which a team manages to maneuver a jury in a series of clever and sneaky moves is really interesting.
In the film version, it was made when school shootings were more of an emotional threat to the country than the sale of cigarettes, and it changed the guilty topic of the trial from smoking to gun control.
Whether it's cigarettes or guns, there is going to be a lot of emotion among jurors, and these 12 people hold virtually all the power for the outcome.
Nicholas Easter is on the jury and he informs the tobacco group that he could send a verdict their way for a price.
Working through his girlfriend, he shows signs that he could hand them a verdict, and manipulates much of the trial.The concept was good, but this novel more than stretches the realm of believability in many ways.
I have never been a big fan of John Grisham as a writer, and his prose in this novel does nothing to change my mind about it.
Given the absolutely stunning amount of money involved in the recent class action suits against the tobacco companies, Grisham starts with the assumption, a quite reasonable one, that the industry lawyers will stop at nothing to prevent a decision going against them and they set aside a huge slush fund to pay for all sorts of dirty tricks.
Someone else decides to manipulate the jury results to their own profit (there’s a not unpredictable link to the anit-smokers involved, but what they do with the money is really nifty even if I didn’t quite understand how they did it).
Soon the corporate lawyers are being sucked into a scheme they can’t control but think they might be able to manipulate.
The process by which a certain man-woman team manages to gerrymander a jury in a series of clever and sneaky moves is really interesting.
The film version, made around the turn of the century when school shootings were more of an emotional threat to the country than the sale of cigarettes, changed the guilty topic of the trial from smoking to gun control.
Whether it's cigarettes or guns, there is going to be a lot of emotion among jurors, and these 12 people hold virtually all the power for the outcome.
As a writer I greatly admire Grisham's use of climax.
As a writer of a story of suspense or a thriller you must have that major climax that is going to make you reader want to read the ending to the story.
Myself as a writer have really loved to use this use of climax in my stories.
Having the reader continue on with me through out the story to see what is going to happen and then to hit them with the climax that just brings everything together is something that I have really enjoyed writing.
