https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/152052.They_Shoot_Horses_Don_t_They_
Can there ever be a staler, more pathetic aspiration, to see the pretend, artificial world of Hollywood as your salvation?To be abused and debased as a child growing up and then, as a young adult, to be pushed into marathon dancing – the true bloodsport of the Great Depression.
And then, after receiving your fifty dollars for a month and a week of marathon dancing, handing your partner a pistol and asking him to blow your brains out.
HOURS ELAPSED 879COUPLES REMAINING 20Short and very brutal, this is a matter-of-fact account of the bleakest despair.
The marathon dance contests of the 20s and 30s were like something dreamed up by Caligula but they really happened and the powers that be never saw fit to close them down, even as the young couples sagged to the floor from physical and mental exhaustion after only being allowed 10 minutes rest every two hours for three solid weeks.
The very memorable movie from 1969 made me think I didn’t need to read this but I’m very glad I did.
“Okay,” he said, “you learned how to make cat food.
Robert and Gloria enter a marathon dance contest with $1000 as the top prize.
Too bad Gloria thinks about death more than winning...Horace McCoy is bleak enough to be one of Jim Thompson's drinking buddies.
See what I did there?It's a pretty powerful story.
She wasn't a likeable character but I did feel sorry for her when she wasn't being a bitch.That's pretty much all I have to say.
If Jim Thompson wrote a book about a marathon dance contest with a suicidal contestant, it would look a lot like this.
Oh, the humanity.McCoy uses this minor-but-dark chapter from the '30s as his vehicle for telling the even more depressing story of Gloria, a lady sick of the world and wanting to die.
But at 115 or so pages, and for a light read, you can do much worse.GR friend Anthony Vacca recommended this book to me before he quit this site forever.
That bastard.UPDATE 1/6/14: Anthony is back!
When he gets around to it, I want to hear from him on this book.
بدأت الرواية بأظرف دعوة لموعدٍ غرامي:"تعال نجلس في الحديقة لنمارس الكراهية تجاه بعض الناس"وانتهت بأقسى تبرير لإنهاء هذا الموعد:"إنهم يقتلون الجياد [المريضة]، أليس كذلك؟"وبين البداية والنهاية، يتسلل الكاتب الأمريكي "هوراس ماكوي" إلى واحدة من أكثر حقبات التاريخ مأساوية ..
التي لم تكن سوى وجهًا آخر للموت.قام "هوراس ماكوي" بتصوير الحياة الأمريكية في تلك الحقبة بشكل رمزي شديد القسوة، فبعد أن يعجز بطلا الرواية عن العثور على عمل في "هوليوود" يقرران المشاركة في "ماراثون رقص" استمر ل٨٧٩ ساعة في حانة ليلية على أمل أن يكتشف مواهبهم أحد المنتجين في "هوليوود".
They Shoot Horses, Don’t They is a novel that speaks to our times: we are inundated with reality shows, where fame and fortune, tragedy and despair are brought to us on a whim and often in the public eye.
The basis for this story is concerning the promotion of a dance marathon during the Great Depression.
There’s a seemingly trivial moment in this book when the narrator catches a glimpse of the sun outside and becomes enamored with the idea of being able to see it during the contest.
Yet, it sells: the promoters see at it as a cash grab, something to create public interest and sensationalism.
This classic noir story is one that a lot of people have vaguely heard of because of the film, but I found the book is much better. It captures the era and the thoughts and emotions of the characters more than the film does, although the film is still really great, too. Both are very sad true classics and the story shouts out the dark question, "why does misery love company?"
This book is essentially about existentialism and nihilism. However, the plot of this small novel features little more than a dance marathon competition and the petty arguments that happen behind the scenes. I suppose this is meant to form a platform on which Gloria can whine about life but it's just insanely boring. I obviously made a mistake choosing to get some of the shorter novels on the 1001 list out of the way, so far they've all been really disappointing.
لم أقصد أن أضجرك، لكن من النادر أن أعثر على شخص يحتمل أن يستمع إلي وأنا أحكي عن حلميستكون أكثر سعادة وهي ميتةلماذا قتلتها؟أنهم يقتلون الجياد، أليس كذلك؟
Χρησιμοποιώντας ως κεντρικό θέμα μια κανιβαλιστική πρακτική της σκοτεινότερης για τους Αμερικανούς εποχής του Great Depression, ο Horace McCoy χτίζει μια εξαιρετική αλληγορία πάνω στην ανθρώπινη κατάσταση.
Δεν είναι τυχαίο που οι Γάλλοι (όπως σοφά ειπώθηκε, λαός με εξαιρετικό γούστο για τη λογοτεχνία των… άλλων!) ανακάλυψαν αίφνης υπερβάλλον πλεόνασμα … Υπαρξισμού στους δύστηνους ήρωες του έργου.
Έτεροι, μπορούν να αναγνωρίσουν μια ζείδωρη κριτική του κρατούντος και αδηφάγου οικονομικού συστήματος.
Και αυτή είναι η γοητεία του "Σκοτώνουν τα άλογα…" και εν γένει της αμερικανικής λογοτεχνίας (σινεμά / θεάτρου).
Η όποια αλληγορία, το όποιο σημαινόμενο (η ενυπάρχουσα έννοια) δεν επικαλύπτει τη λογοτεχνική φόρμα, παρά αποτελεί συμπλήρωμα του Ύφους.
In the 1930's Hollywood wannabees were humiliated by making them dance for endless hours in public, reminding me of American Idol's more sadistic moments.Still fresh today as the day it was written, "They Shoot Horses" is a bizarre existential horror story about people who have shit canned their pride thinking there's a pot of gold at the end of their self-inflicted degradation.(The only person to attain stardom from the marathons was June Havoc, who was Gypsy Rose Lee's sister, so she would have made it, anyway.)
First dismissed by American critics as grim dime-novel trash, then adopted by the French as a founding example of their cross-eyed tedious existentialism, this novel begs to be read -- especially in 2012 -- for what it is: a story about the exploitation by racketeers of a collapsing, desperate society, and how nihilism is the only logical response to it.
I know that his staging of the dance contest over the Pacific, on a pier -- complete with our narrator digging the waves under his aching feet and constantly reaching for sunbeams in the dark space -- represents the literal limit of America, just over land's end.
Finding out the meaning of the title broke my heart!
This is definitely a dark little gem, but I really don’t see it as belonging to the Noir literary genre.
To me, its violence and darkness seemed very peripheral to its more meditative existential content and I believe it shares more of an affinity with The Catcher in the Rye than The Big Sleep or Double Indemnity.
What really matters is that I thoroughly enjoyed it.
And, in the process of enjoying it, I learned more than a few new things about the good bad old days.
For a better review, check out Franky’s dead-on and much more thoroughly thoughtful analysis here: https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...
Gloria is bitter and unhappy and wishes she had the courage to end it all.After they meet on the street in Hollywood, they join what was popular at the time: a dance marathon on the Santa Monica pier.
The story foreshadows the disaffection and alienation of later generations, but maybe it gives an honest portrayal of what it felt like in the depression with no money, no family, no future.Interspersed with the dance contest narrative are scenes from Robert's trial and, since its revealed at the beginning, its no secret, he eventually gave in and helped Gloria end it all just as she always said she wanted.
It is a powerful work of literature that captures quite extraordinarily Gloria's descent into depression and hopelessness and Robert's annoyance and later grudging understanding of her pain.
* Read from LOA's exquisite Crime Novels: American Noir of the 1930s & 40s edition*Horace McCoy's "They Shoot Horses, Don't They?" is a bleak, tautly written existential noir text which wouldn't look out of place in Arthur Schopenhauer's personal library.
The novel takes place during the dance marathon craze of the 1930's.
Gloria is an unabashed, rather coarse pessimist that toys with the idea of suicide on a near permanent basis, while occasionaly making the case for antinatalism (one scene involves her trying to persuade a fellow contestant to abort her baby).
Two Hollywood hopefuls, Gloria and Robert, happen upon one another and decide to team up, after all there’s a $1,000 prize to the last couple standing.
Though there is much license taken with the book, the movie is more overt in the theme of struggle and the dichotomy between the rich vs.
It has sub themes such as who is a criminal, is it ever moral to kill and if so in what situation(s)?
As I’m sure you gathered both from McCoy’s title and my reactions to his book this isn’t a feel good experience but it’s well worth taking the time to read this vintage story.
(view spoiler)[Bettie's Books (hide spoiler)]
So if you are a literary theorist, and get off on those labels and how they come to mean something to a certain group of people during a certain period of time, then you probably want to read this book and are going to think it's pretty important.
So the themes are “big” in this book, I get it, and I get why certain people would be attracted to it and want to talk about these big themes (I went to grad school with some of you), but not I sir for this very simple reason; I hate “big” ideas (insert jazz hands here) that don’t come wrapped in a gripping story that’s going to smack me in the face and wake me up.
Great shot of pulp fiction. Short, sharp, and memorable.
A one-day bleak read. Relentless and great.Noir's relationship with muckraking/social justice journalism is very much evident in this novel. The story's grim linear martch is fueled by the desperation of poverty.Not as brilliant, as noir goes, as The Postman Always Rings Twice...but it's so confidently written that its flaws become moving. It captures a moment and an age.
Novella length, but it packs an emotional wallop. Bleak, grim, seedy, gritty, the story of a dance marathon in the 1930's and how far people will go to survive, how much a soul can take.Another of those novels where I couldn't see how the title could fit in with the synopsis on offer but "They Shoot Horses, Don't They?" fit perfectly. Well worth a look at.
الهرب من الموت إلى موت ألعن.رغم رمزيتها، استطاعت هذه الرواية بلغتها البسيطة وفكرتها المباشرة أن ترسم
تقرأ الرواية في أول صفحتين، صفحتان من أعظم ما قرأت من استهلال للروايات، ثم تنهيها بصفحتين، وفيما بينها.. تفاصيل.
This is the second novella that appears in a Library of America collection called  Crime Novels: American Noir of the 1930s & 40s . Similar to the first novella in the anthology titled  The Postman Always Rings Twice , They Shoot Horses, Don't They? also struck me as odd and unexpected(perhaps because of my unfamiliarity with Noir fiction). Still, like the first, I enjoyed it.For those of you who are also unfamiliar with Noir fiction, a little blurb from Wikipedia can be found in the spoiler
Still, like the first, I enjoyed it.For those of you who are also unfamiliar with Noir fiction, a little blurb from Wikipedia can be found in the spoiler.
Other common characteristics include the self-destructive qualities of the protagonist.[2] A typical protagonist of the Noir fiction is dealing with the legal, political or other system that is no less corrupt than the perpetrator by whom the protagonist is either victimized and/or has to victimize others on a daily basis, leading to [sic] Lose-lose situation.
(hide spoiler)]Would recommend this book to those who enjoy crime novels, but particularly Noir crime fiction.
They Shoot Horses, Don't They is short (only 127 pages) but incredibly powerful, examining not only how much pain or humiliation a person can withstand in his or her own fight for survival or that of others, but it also looks at the utter hopelessness for some in life's unending dance toward the American dream.
Dancing or staying on one's feet for 1 hour and 50 minutes, with 10-minute breaks before the next round begins is tough enough, but McCoy reminds us that what is a life-and-death struggle for some is merely entertainment or business for others.
روبرت وغلوريا شخصين التقيا بالصدفة أثناء بحثهما عن عمل في هوليوود، وذهبا إلى المشاركة في أحد سباقات الرقص التي تمتد لأسابيع يرقص فيها المشارك دون رحمة.
تروى الرواية بالكامل تقريبا أثناء الرقص، نعرف كيف تبدو الحلبة وظروفها و ونشاهد السباق العبثي المجنون، والجماهير المتعطشة للإثارة، نراقب انحدار النفس حتى وصلت إلى حد عدم الاكتراث بمن يسقط/ينهار في الخلف، التخلي عن الكرامة، المهم أن تمضي بإتجاه خط النهاية وضمان البقاء في السباق.
إنها أيضا تقول شيئا عن قدرة الإنسان وإرادته من ناحية، فهؤلاء الأشخاص في الرواية استطاعوا الرقص أكثر من 700 ساعة متواصلة، وتجاوزوا اللحظات التي فشلت فيها أجسادهم، لقد كانوا مصرين أشد الإصرار على ”البقاء في السباق“ وليس بالضرورة الفوز.
مدهشة مدهشة بكل ما تقتضيه الكلمة، ليست الدهشة في البلاغة الأدبية أو القصة ككل، لكن في العدمية التي وصلا إليها بطلا الرواية.
تقول البطلة:"لماذا يحاول هؤلاء العلماء الفطاحل إطالة الحياة طوال الوقت بدل السعي إلى اكتشاف طرق لإنهائها بشكل سهل ومستحب؟ لا بد أن هناك الكثير من الأشخاص مثلي في هذا العالم يريدون أن يموتوا لكنهم لا يجرؤون على الموت."أفهمك.
أفهمك تمامًا.
يلتقي بطلا الرواية صدفة، لتقول البطلة أجمل سطر لدعوة لموعد غرامي: "تعال نجلس في الحديقة ونمارس الكراهية تجاه بعض الناس."من هذا الاقتباس تتضح شخصية البطلة بشكل جلي.يتفقان على المشاركة في ماراثون راقص لكي يحقق كلاهما أحلامهما المختلفة.
لقد كان قتل الجواد الذي كسرت ساقه هو الشيء الرحيم الوحيد الذي يمكن أن تقدمه له .. هذا ما أخبره به جده فما كان منه الا ان قتلها وبناء على رغبتها لأنها كانت الطريقة الوحيدة لإنقاذها من بؤسها !!!
Debe de haber multitud de personas en el mundo como yo que desean morir pero carecen del valor necesario para matarse."Gloria Beatty a Robert SyvertenUna novela corta y cruda.El argumento es sencillo.
Durante la Gran Depresión, Robert Syverten y Gloria Beatty entran a un concurso de resistencia de baile.
Estos concursos de baile solían durar desde días a semanas, en sí, la regla no eran que bailarán sino que se mantuvieran en movimiento, las rondas eran de una hora y cincuenta minutos con un descanso de diez minutos.
