https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/101249.I_m_Just_Here_for_the_Food
We'll focus on one cooking method a week, and come September, I'll have another hand in the house that has no excuse for not coming up with dinner once in a while.
Here we go...Week 1 Completed!We have mastered the method of Searing--Meal 1: Beef stew, delicious the first night, even better the next day.Meal 2: Jerk tuna steak, the boys found the spices too...spicy, but I thought it was great.
They scraped the spices off and enjoyed the tuna, and Eb added a coleslaw vinaigrette, which was the perfect side to mellow the spices.Meal 3: hashbrowns.
I think mostly because I’m a little impatient and the results are spectacular enough normally for me to get a charge of out taking the time to cook.That may all be changing because of a book I got this weekend.
Because, like building a deck or replacing a sink, when you do it is harder and never works out the way it does for them.I was at the book store and I saw Alton Brown’s book I’m Just Here For the Food.I sat down in comfy chair at B&N and decided to thumb through it.
I’m Just Here for the Food (JHFF) is a cooking book.
I came late to the Alton Brown party, so my man-crush on him seems ill-timed now that he's widened out in his celebrity role on the Food Network. But Brown is a man after my own heart - understand the science of something so you can play with it. I make something by the recipe the first time so I get the mechanics, then I start to tweak it. Brown's book is a great guide to your kitchen and it will make you throw away about half the crap you got for your wedding because they're unitaskers.
The drawings were also too stylized, not as basic and clear as the drawings in Brown's other books.
The fact that his other books are sketches "by Alton Brown" and this book are illustrations by (6) other people "based on sketches by Alton Brown" is probably why it ended up looking like they were trying too hard to be pretty and slightly retro and eye-catching.
Sorry, I don't need eye-catching, I need basic and clear, with no off-set colour.
It's like the modern American inability to concentrate (short attention span) in book form.
I think I'm a pretty decent cook, but that doesn't mean I know what I'm doing. This books attempts to bridge the gap between relying on recipes vs allowing you to decide how you want to cook a food given a broad array of techniques. (searing, braising, sauteing, ect) The book is set up like some cooking school textbooks that I have seen, but keeps things as simple as possible. This book definitely helped me, and best of all, I now know what areas I need to focus on order to continue to get better.
I 100% loved this book. I need to buy a copy for reference purposes. I would highly recommend this for anyone who wants to be able to cook without recipes and understand the science behind cooking.
Alton Brown explains the chemistry, physics and processes of the foundational methods of cooking food, breaking them down with hilarious commentary and consistent precision.
But no, I won't be melting ice cubes on my grill any time ...
And as I said above, it is not a cookbook: while there are recipes, explained with the same clarity and precision as the text, they tend to be fairly standard and iconic - blueprints rather than the specialty products of Brown's kitchen and cookery.This is definitely a sit-down-and-read book rather than a flip-through book, and it holds up very well to this kind of intensive review.
Simply put, this is the science behind cooking laid out in a practical approach.
It also contains a lot of 'kitchen hacks' that allow you to get things done on the cheap or in a pinch.
This is a great cookbook and really the only one (except Brown's other books) worth listing as a book I've read here.
Like any other cooking or brewing book, there's not a lot of reason to read the parts that don't apply to what you're cooking.
If you enjoy the shows and find them helpful and entertaining, you'll find the books the same way.
If you have I'm Just Here for the Food and I'm Just Here for More Food, and an internet connection for the good cooking websites for more recipes, there's no reason to own another cooking book (except maybe the kitchen gear book of Brown's).
Searing: 6/6 Recipes (2.67/5)Skirt Steak (3/5)Cast-Iron Duck (3/5)Red Flannel Hash (2/5)Bar-B-Fu (1/5)Blackened Steak Tuna (4/5)Pan-Seared Portobello Mushrooms (3/5)Roasting: 4/6 Recipes (3.5/5)Roast Turkey (4/5)A Perfect Baked Potato (4/5)Meatload (1/5)Slow-Roast Tomatoes (5/5)Frying: 5/14 RecipesBatter Up (2/5)Chip Chop (1/5)Calamari Crunch (4/5)Chicken in Garlic and Shallots (3/5)Miller Thyme Trout
I'm biased to Alton Brown, his approach to cooking using science is really what inspires me. Although I cannot recall off the top of my head to have made any of the recipes in this book, the knowledge passed can be used in a professional kitchen. I happened to buy the version that has magnets of chicken, lamb, pig & cow showing the different cuts for each. If you're really wanting to "up your game" at home, I recommend anything Alton Brown.
Alton Brown is just fun to read. He is witty and humorous but he is also very Good at explaining how cooking happens. My boys love to watch his television shows when they can. They consider it funny and educational and worth their time to watch by their own choice! This book is not quite as funny as the tv series but it is very educational and the recipes aren't bad, either. I learned the best way to make hard cooked eggs is in the oven and haven't gone back to boiling since!
I know there is something wrong with me because I am recovering from a hard core crush on Alton Brown that lasted several years. Well, they say the first step is admitting you have a problem, but geeky glasses, food, AND science? I have no will power against his panoply of charms. And he even wrote a decent book. Food science at its most fun.
Alton Brown illustrates the science behind cooking so its easy to see why a recipe works. His recipes are always reliable, many of them are staples in my house.Heather-Staff
Interesting and entertaining. The quality of the paper is not the best, but the information contained in the book is valuable, especially the chapters about eggs and microwaving.
Brown gives advice on what to do when and how to cook meals to get the flavor and texture that you're looking for.
By using the science behind what fat gives you the best crispy outside on a steak or how to bring out the flavors in fish you learn how to cook things to your preference and substitute things in recipes as needed.
It's really a great beginners approach that gives you a great idea of how to approach things in the kitchen.
For those just getting started in cooking, or want to start cooking the right way, this is a great place. He explains the science behind cooking and breaks down the basics for you. There are some good simple recipes in there, and Alton Brown is informative, succinct, and very funny. Highly recommended!
When I discovered that Alton Brown's cookbooks were actually fun and engaging just like his show, it made cooking more fun. Many of the recipes in this book while difficult for a beginner, taste incredibly good. There are also fantastic food facts and cooking hints. It is like reading a massive episode of Good Eats!
I love Alton Brown and this book was great. I expected the recipes to be harder to follow but most was quiet simple. A few of the recipes we did not like at all and I followed the directions to a t. I really wish he would write a kid friendly cookbook.
I have been a fan of Alton Brown's scientific approach to cooking for many years. This book was a great resource to read through different applications of heat to food. I learned more about cooking and have made the Scampi 2.0 a new staple in our home.
I enjoy Alton Brown. This cookbook didn't disappoint me. Good explanations to go along with good recipes.
Learned so much. I love steaming eggs based on this book. But I'm an AB fangirl.
I love his simple scientific approach to cooking and baking.
Nothing like AB's unique mix of science, food anthropology and humor.
This book gives good recipes and apart is a book that gives you that interest in cooking.
Billed as a guide to help organise you and your kitchen, I'm Just here For the Food by U.S. celebrity chef and TV star Alton Brown has set this ring-bound guide to be a key kitchen companion and store for your recipes, notes and other cooking essentials.The eight sections feature a full-page plastic pocket to hold clippings, equipment manuals and warranties and the like and many blank pages for storing notes.
But don't assume it is a recipe book by itself for it isn't, but the author has separately produced a range of well-regarded cookbooks that should be considered in their own right.I'm Just Here for the Food: Kitchen User's Manual, written by Alton Brown and published by Stewart, Tabori & Chang Inc. ISBN 1-58479-298-1, 160 pages.
For many years I've been addicted to the off-beat cooking show filled with unabashed geekery known far and wide as Good Eats on food network.
I scored the second edition of I'm Just Here for the Food and was really impressed that A.B. took the same inventive approach to a book on cooking as he does on his show.
It takes what could be a boring trip down culinary lane and makes it as fun and interesting as cooking is for those of us who have the "like to cook" gene.A.B. is all about making things make sense, understanding "why" certain things are standards in the kitchen world.
Get in the kitchen and have some fun.
My meat wouldn't always brown, I constantly overcooked my eggs, I had a hard time getting sauces and soups to the right consistency, etc.This book cured me of a lot of those inconsistency problems by teaching me the basic idea of how cooking works and boiling it down to essentially controlling two variables: heat and moisture.
After learning about the Maillard reaction and how it works, I realized that the problem is that most of these grass-fed organic steaks in the grocery store are vacuum-packed in blood in plastic, so they're sopping wet and need to be left to dry out before cooking.
There are fun little sidenotes, and interesting tips, but the recipes are constructed in a rather strange way.Then again, Brown has so many little quirks and extreme preferences that I don't intend to follow.
OK, maybe that's not really the worst, but I love dessert!Still, I did find a few recipes and note a few tips I plan to try.
I keep reading about how great a brine makes your meat taste, so I plan to try that one.
Cook for about 1 hour.I haven't tried it yet, but since I love baked potatoes, I will try it soon!
He's kindof the Bill Nye of the cooking world :) This is not an allergy-focused book (i.e. not gluten free, vegan, raw, etc) but I checked it out because let's face it, I don't have a clue what I'm doing in the kitchen.
Sure, I can follow a recipe, but I don't know why some things "work" and some do not.
I don't expect to be able to use any recipes, but that's ok, that's not why I got the book.
