https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/32102.Venetia
Heyer never gives you anything more than a kiss--no tangled tongues or groping or anything like that--but you can almost feel the heat rising off the pages when these two are together.I loved both the humor and the literary allusions and references in this book.
This was invaluable in keeping my brain cells from exploding from trying to expand too fast.And I've changed my mind on this second read: Venetia gets all 5 stars.P.S. re "orgies": at the end of the book(view spoiler)[ Damarel jokes that they're going to have a lovely orgy, or something to that effect.
Damerel takes to calling Venetia his “dear delight”, his “fair fatality”, “Admir'd Venetia” and other similar heart-melting nicknames, he keeps telling her she is a beautiful, desirable creature, and that he wouldn’t at all mind kissing her again, and well everything is just so sigh-worthy that you never want it to end.”’[…]he should have taken you in his arms, like this, and not as though he were a bear, bent on hugging you to death.
He doesn't hide who he is or his past from Venetia, even using his reputation to his advantage at times.
"...my case is clearly past remedy, and I've nothing to do but decide whether to be an aunt to Conway's children, or a mother to Edward's - and I have a lowering presentiment that Edward's children will be dreadfully dull, poor little things!"There are no cardboard cutout characters, they are multi-layered, full of life whether you hate them, love them, laugh at them or barely tolerate them.
There is no surprise about how things will end, the fun is how they get to happily ever after, including an expected twist I didn't see coming.
All is set in the country, save for a brief time in London (which didn't include the "ton," gods be praised!), but not quiet-paced as I'd believed it would as soon as I discovered its setting, it's rather eventful for the narrow scope, thanks to the neighbouring families and Damerel himself, plus Venetia's brother is a strong secondary character.
It was simply unconvincing that they'd react with so much equanimity given what the lady did and how it affected their lives, and more of that cool anger shown by Venetia should've been in.I definitely am going to approach the rest of her novels with more hopes about Heyer's writing after this enjoyable read that is going straight to my favourites and after such delightful characters, both male and female (Did I thank the gods already?).
I absolutely loved Venetia, and I will be endlessly grateful to Richard Armitage for being my unwitting introduction to Georgette Heyer's beautiful world.Being set in the Yorkshire countryside, the story doesn’t have quite so many upsets and excitements and scrapes of those Heyer stories which take place in the cities.
I think what I love about these two characters is that Venetia and Damarel are on very even terms with each other, more so than in any other Heyer novel I’ve ever read.
However, even after a year of reading some of her other novels, I truly believe this particular scene in Venetia is one of the best she has written.
He comes such a long way in this book, and not because someone forces him to change, but because meeting an innocent little whirlwind who turns his life of debauchery upside down actually makes him re-evaluate his life-choices and accept that he has screwed up and he is not good enough for her as he is.
At this point I have actually listened to this book more often than I have read it, and trust me, if you hear the man's voice, you'll understand why...
I love the characters, their determination, the heart and humor, and all of it together makes for one perfect reading experience.
3.5While reading Venetia I spent half of my time being thrilled (Lord Damerel and Venetia are both wonderful characters) and the other half being frustrated, annoyed and plain angry.
Lord Damerel is said to be every horrible and ugly thing under the sun, but to me he was perfect.
The one time I needed her to speak up and put the horrible people where they belong, she did just that.On the other hand, Venetia's meddling family and friends were a bit too much.
Speaking of all those annoying meddling people, I must say I loved every Aubrey moment.
Venetia is, without question, my favourite of all Georgette Heyer’s Regency Romances, and I’ve been looking forward to this new, unabridged audio version for some time.
Fortunately for both of them, Venetia is not going to let love slip away so easily.Damerel often refers to Venetia as his “dear delight”, and that’s often how I think of this book – a dear delight.
The romance is simply beautiful and although the book is squeaky clean, it possesses a sensuality not often found in the author’s work.This new audio version of Venetia is also a complete delight.
One of my favorite Heyer romances, I enjoyed listening to this with my youngest as we commuted to and from her school (which is on the way to my work). I'm so glad we've started listening to these outstanding novels (we started with The Grand Sophy). Not only are the stories great, but discussing them with her is an added delight.
Let's start with the heroine:"I wish you will tell me some of the things you have done!" "I think not," he said dryly.
This is their relationship in a nutshell: "As soon as one promises not to do something it becomes the one thing above all others that one most wishes to do!" She turned her head towards her uncle again.
The thing is, uncle, that I don't think I ever should know." "You'd know about my orgies!" objected Damerel.
"Yes, love, if you wish me to," she replied, smiling at him.
Just recently I have started listening to audiobook versions of Heyer novels.
(There is an abridged version available and as much as I appreciate the narrator, Richard Armitage, I am sure I would get annoyed listening to an abridged version of such a well-loved book.) I realized this afternoon, as I listened, that I always feel tears come to my eyes at exactly the same place in the narrative.
I am sure that I will read it (or listen to it) many more times in years to come.
Oh. My.After years of ignoring this book on my shelf (I think it's the cheesy '80's cover), I have now found my new favorite Georgette Heyer. Oh. My.This book has everything! A saucy young lady with an oddball family. A leading man who is just as witty as she is. Meddling neighbors. Meddling family. And scandal after scandal after SCANDAL. Divorce! Secret marriage! Overbearing in-laws! Rakes! Elopements! Squandered fortunes! Venetia's delightfully witty responses to everyone from her bookish brother to her dull-as-a-brick suitor to her surprise stepfather are priceless. So much fun! I couldn't put it down!
And it is one of the rare books in the middle of which I felt like crying!
I loved his character and the way he recognizes himself and how he is willing to let Venetia go just so that she doesn't suffer because of his reputation.
I couldn't stop reading the book once I started!The growth of the story is fascinating and the surprise of Venetia's mother being alive is too good!
She should have been shown to be getting a good set down by Conway who may have returned or at least something like this!Other than this I find the book amazing!
Its said that Georgette Heyer created the Regency romance genre, and future authors used her books as their model.
It is my opinion that they used this specific book as a model.
Its two people, Venetia and her rakish neighbor Lord Demerel, who really enjoy each other's company and are very convincing as friends who eventually realize that they're in love with each other.
Also, I love the supporting characters of Venetia's scholarly brother and her crotchety old Nurse.
One of Heyer's best, and highly recommended to newcomers to her books (though I still think starting with The Grand Sophy or Cotillion is best).
While out berry picking one afternoon, Venetia runs into the "Wicked Baron", Lord Damerel, her nearest neighbor and the object of village gossip.
When Aubrey meets with an accident that forces him to recover at Damerel's home, Venetia and Lord Damarel discover an easy friendship that comes from a shared love of literature and the same sense of humor.
She shares her sense of the absurd with Lord Damerel, which is why I think they make the perfect couple.
If you read the novel closely, you will know that Damerel is not an unrepentant rake or libertine.
Georgette Heyer is the first author I've read who makes Jane Austen seem emo.
Don't get me wrong, I adore Austen and consider WWJD to stand for "What Would Jane Do?", but I really enjoyed this charming and angst-free Regency tale of Venetia and her Wicked Baron, the rake Damerel.
The same could also be said of Venetia, who is nearing spinsterhood at, gasp!, five-and-twenty.Heyer touches on social issues, whereas Austen really delves into them, but don't confuse lightness of touch for lack of deftness.
Spare yourself the ignominy and read a book that doesn't have Austen rolling over in her grave.
The entire book made me laugh, from descriptions of Oswald Denny attempting to become the Corsair to the many delightful exchanges between Damerel and Venetia, who are a couple that are truly fun to read about.
This world feels real, and firmly grounded in the right era.Heyer is the gold standard of regency romance because she doesn't take modern characters and put them onto a flimsy background: she actually writes characters and plots that take place in 1816 England.
Heyer's ability to write characters who are slightly outside of the norm, but who aren't marching around demanding the vote, makes her books fun to read.
My favorite Heyer and probably the sexiest hero she ever created. It reads great, but the best way to discover Venetia is by listening to the Richard Armitage audiobook on NAXOS. Yes, it's an abridged version, but hearing RA as Damerel is not to be missed. Truly swoonworthy.
I loved how tangled this story was and how well Richard Armitage performs the role of reformed rogue. But I'm sad that there's only one more of these novels with this fabulous narrator available from my library, and it's currently checked out so I have to wait to enjoy it. :(
I've finally read (or in this case listened) to a Georgette Heyer book and I was definitely not disappointed! This was a wondeful book made even more better since it was a buddy read with my two favorite reading buddies, Andrea and Becca :) (Thanks for making try this book, Andrea!)Anyway, I loved every bit of this book. Venetia is an amazing heroine and she's well suited with Damarel. Their banter was a delight to listen to.
I know...it's a bit disgraceful that I've waited this long to read a book from the woman whom many consider to be the creator of the Regency romance, but while I love Jane Austen and other not-modern authors, I also sometimes find their work a bit tougher to get through when my eyes or brain are tired.Solution: Richard Armitage reading Heyer to me!Oh man, I have tried several audiobooks but have never gotten into them.
While Armitage's voice definitely added to the experience, I will say, it helped that he had a lot of material to work with.
The Green Girl and The Notorious RakeIn one of her most popular and beloved novels, Georgette Heyer introduces readers to Miss Venetia Lanyon, a twenty-five year old beauty tucked away in her family estate in Yorkshire.
Damerel, who is true Byronic hero of the tale – with his sneers, black and sinful past – plans a seduction for Venetia at their first encounter.
(Especially at the end!)Venetia is a romantic adventure full of Georgette Heyer staples – engaging characters, sparkling wit, and riveting dialogue – all of which I love and admire so much.
If you only read one book by Georgette Heyer, this one should probably be it. Venetia is a heroine of almost Lizzie-Bennet-level awesomeness who takes charge of her life and gets what she wants regardless of what everyone around her tells her she should do.
Just like with reading her excellent Frederica.Not even close.Of course, it wasn't fair since I love Frederica but oh well.Venetia, the novel, suffered because there were not enough interesting characters, not nearly enough.
And she shouldn't have been 'just fine' when her character was clearly supposed to carry this whole thing.But since I didn't really take to these characters, I found the story to be kind of boring and repetitive.Fortunately, there are still lots more books from Heyer I haven't read, here's hoping I'll like her next ones more!
READ: September 5, 2018I needed a tried-and-true book to read. This fit the bill!READ: October 21-22, 2016READ: June 14-15, 2015I LOVE THIS BOOK!What a joy it is to spend several hours with this delightful novel. I can always count on Georgette Heyer to pull me right out of a reading slump.
So when Damarel, rake extraordinaire, finds her picking blackberries on his lands and kisses her, of course she falls in love with him - not because he kisses her mind you, but because he makes her laugh, and because he totally 'gets' her in a way no-one, not even her beloved younger brother does.
'I don't know,' Venetia replies, 'but I know he will always love me because we are such good friends'.
And of course, the stoic Edward (chicken pox, such genius) was so good he made you want to slap him every time he appeared on stage - yet he was not universally boorish, he was at heart a good man.
3.5 starsReview to comehistorical romancezero smutnice readnothing particularly negative to say, just nothing particularly spectacular either. Good solid enjoyable love story.
3.5 stars.
A couple of my colleagues are OBSESSED with Georgette Heyer, and were horrified to learn that I'd never read anything by her.
So one of them was all "RIGHT.
I'M GOING TO BRING YOU SOMETHING TO READ".
So I liked the dynamic between Venetia and the guy she ends up with.
And I liked the relationship between Venetia and her younger brother, Aubrey.
And I really enjoyed the last...third??...of the book where Venetia ends up discovering something scandalous.
And if one more character called someone "stoopid", I was going to reach into the book and strangle them.
This is the most enormously fun book.A young woman sheltered all her life in the country meets a rak
I no longer read romances and haven't for some years. With the notable exception of Georgette Heyer. Her books are beautifully written, her characters are well developed, charming and witty, and her dialogue is simply perfect.One of my favourites!
