https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/102311.Postern_of_Fate
'Frankfurt' was much more condemnatory of the 'children these days with their murder and long hair' than this one, but the slight touches upon that theme are the book's low point to my taste.If you can possibly imagine these books as being part of a continuum of a writing career that spanned fifty years instead of just as something that 'ought to be as good as her best stuff,' this book will hold interest - it is a fascinating glimpse into the way the human mind eventually weakens with age, for one.
It is a historical crime story, taking us to the mysteries of a particular series of murders in world war 2.
The book started with Tom and Tuppence moving to a new place.
When they were organizing their books, and started talking about it.
I've always been a fan of historical fiction and Agatha Christie is a big YES.This book wasn't as superb as other works of her.
Who cares, we love Agatha and that's what matters.
The investigators or say the protagonist couple, were madly into each other and books.
If that's not nice then I don't know what is!
Mary Jordan did not die naturally Book #12 in my Agatha Christie Challenge saw me explore the author's 74th detective novel and my first full length Tommy and Tuppence(Prudence) Beresford story.
The older couple have moved to a new lodging "The Laurels" and stumble upon a mysterious cipher that indicates a murder mystery from the early 1900's.
As the couple investigate, a series of mishaps descends on their home and T&T soon begin to wonder if someone wants to keep the past in the past.
I hate to be harsh on A.C. especially as I am having such a great time exploring her books.
A very tedious, dull and disappointing finale for the Tommy and Tuppence series. Not even sure why she wrote it--and I rather wish I had not wasted my time reading it...
2.5/5. Probably my least favourite Christie I've read yet (and I've read/listened to almost all of them). Christie's old age (she was over 80 when she wrote this) really shows in this book as some things don't really add up in the end. Tommy and Tuppence were great as always though.
Forewarned is forearmed: POSTERN OF FATE was the last book Christie wrote, and is and generally conceded to be her worst (actually, she was dictating into a tape recorder at this time, and had been doing so since the late 1960s, which accounts for the rather conversational tone of the later novels).
But skip POSTERN OF FATE unless you're absolutely committed to reading all of Christie's books.
It's an affectionate look back at her childhood home, Ashfield, but as a novel it's not only poorly-written but poorly edited, with inconsistencies, meandering conversations, and endless repetitions.
As they start to get settled in their new house, Tuppence finds a book that contains a coded message to indicate that Mary Jordan did not die of natural causes.But who was Mary Jordan?The unravelling of the mystery ensues.While the first half of the book was not horrible and seemed to merely meander through the nostalgia of the earlier adventures of T&T, the rest of the book seemed to pursue a similar line of conspiracy theory as the abominable Passenger to Frankfurt (yes, some of the characters in Passenger also appear in Postern of Fate) and the slightly less annoying Destination Unknown.
The last of the Tommy and Tuppence books from Ms. Christie and I have to say the worst. It's all a bit wishy washy and there's no clear resolution, which is odd for Christie. Until the end I had been expecting a lot more, but it was a bit of a damp squib, sad though I am to say that about one of the Queen of Crime's works.
هناك قاتل أو قاتلة يختبئ في منزل المسنين بعد زيارة للعمة أده في منزل المسنين تلتقي زوجته بعجوز اسمها 'السيدة لانكتسر' يبدو أنها مريضة نفسيًا تتكلم عن طفل مقتول وبعد وفاة العمة وذهابهم للحصول على أغراض العمة، يكشف خبر آخر وهو مغادرة 'لانكستر' لكن بسبب حوارهم القديم وهدية غامضة يتم افتراض أنها اختفت بشكل قسري.
أعتبر ذلك خطأهناك مئات الأخطاء اللغوية ولا يوجد احترام لعلامات الترقيم ولا لطريقة كتابة الأسماء الأجنبية لا توجد حوارات عميقة أو مرحلة ولا تحليل للشخصيات ولا تشويق ولكن ذلك الغموض المزعج الذي لا يشجعك على إنهاء الكتاب ولكني أجبرت نفسي على إنهائه لأني مصاب بمتلازمة إنهاء الكتب التي لا تعجبني ععععععع----لقد كانت رواية مهداة إلى معجبي الشخصيتين (توبي وتوبنس) وبالتالي كتبتها بهذه النية كما أن الرواية كانت من بين آخر ما كتبته وهذا ما يبرر ضعفها ربما
The "young adventurers" were introduced in Christie's second novel, The Secret Adversary (1922) so it is fitting that she wrote one last novel about them at the end of her career, having already penned a last one for Poirot (Curtain) and Miss Marple (Sleeping Murder).
The Beresfords are *exactly* as I would have hoped--unlike Curtain, which broke my heart by having Poirot so elderly and ill, Postern of Fate ends cheerfully, with T&T in their lovely country home with their children and grandchildren (and dog!) around them, and a new mystery successfully solved.
The last novel Agatha Christie wrote (published 1973), and it can best be described as out-of-focus.
However, Agatha was preoccupied with navel-gazing and recollections of childhood, and the central mystery only occasionally interrupts these endless remembrances.
In short, the book is at least 100 pages too long by far.
Still, the book was less painful than just meandering and kept my eyes rolling.
It's sad that this was her last novel, but even Meryl Streep has flops.
The personal memories are interesting in a way as a personal insight into AC, but a judicious amount would have enhanced the novel rather than detracted.
An odd, confused book. A large chunk of information from her autobiography is repeated here, applying it to the world of Tommy and Tuppence. No trace of any logical reasoning. Totally unlike the Dame Agatha I know and love!I understand that this is the last book written by her, just before her death. In Malayalam we have a saying: "One should stop singing when one's voice is still good." Applies perfectly here.Enough said.
Είχε μεγάλες προοπτικές σαν υποθεση,αλλά δυστυχώς δεν εξελίχθηκε ωραία. Μου άφησε μια αισθηση ανολοκλήρωτου. Ελπίζω τα άλλα να είναι καλύτερα.
I love Agatha Christie.
Which is why I hated this book so much.
It was dreadful for anyone to have written, but especially Christie.
Perhaps it would've been a good epilogue, but you just don't stick random scenes about your detectives' grandkids in the middle of the mystery's unraveling.
The last chapter was supposed to be the "big reveal" but it was so boring that I checked Facebook three times in as many pages.
Sadly, this was her last book.
(Probably because they didn't even share scenes most of the time...Tuppence was always in the garden, Tommy was always in London.
I've read all of the Tommy and Tuppence books now *cries* . They'll always be my favourite married sleuths. I just adore Tommy's tender and caring nature to Tuppence (and how he worries) and Tuppence is just so sassy. This is an amazing, fabulous read that had me engrossed at every page :)
Tommy and Tuppence may be doddering old people, but they are still as cute as ever, and they still have "it"- they can still solve a mystery with the weirdest clues you ever saw.I love how Tuppence wants to re-read all the books of her childhood, and this leads her to a mystery.
I also appreciate that despite their flaws and their age, Tommy and Tuppence continue to be great together and to possess marvelous skills.What confuses me terribly though, is the timeline.
What really confuses me is that the age of this mystery is continually stressed, and our detectives are even led to visit an old people's home for clues.
اين داستان دو شخصيت محبوب رمان هاي اگاتا كريستي تامي و تاپنس بود كه به حل يك معماي مربوط به چند نسل قبل مي پردازند، همين فاصله ي زماني زياد باعث شده است كه داستان از جذابيت هاي معمول برخوردار نباشد.
ديالوگ ها طولاني و گنگ هستند و در پايان هم خود تامي و تاپنس نيستند كه ماجرا را گره گشايي مي كنند بلكه دو نفر ديگر سرنخ هاي انها را برايشان معنا مي كند.يكي از دلايلي كه من داستان هاي كريستي را بيش از هر نويسنده جنايي معمايي ديگري دوست دارم اين است كه فضايي فراهم مي كند كه در كنار شخصيت هاي داستان حدس بزنم و من هم در جستجوي حل مساله باشم.
I had good memories of this book when I read it years ago.
At any rate, this is not a good book.
After this, the book simply degenerates into mindless, incoherent rambling so much so as you have absolutely no clue what people are even talking about.
In the end, there is a murderer but I have no clue what the murder was about.
It's just frustrating.I did enjoy the Tuppence scenes a bit because she is fun, but it led nowhere in the end.
Unless you are a T&T fan and enjoy the more personal aspects of their relationship, give this book a miss.
This book starts off very strongly. The premise is exciting, eerie and provocative. However, I must say it's the worst Christie novel I've ever read. I finished it yesterday and am still so utterly confused by the ending. There's a whole list Tuppence makes full of "clues" and many of them are never answered or even touched upon. There are no real suspects or even solidified characters. The ending is lackluster with no twist or even resolution and a great deal of the novel is long dialogues that bored me to death. Please do yourself a favor and skip it.
This book was okay... the mystery was a little confusing and though T&T were still cute they didn't interact much (if I'm recalling correctly) which is the best part about the books. While I'd *highly* recommened the first three T&T books, I'd not really recommened the last two...
Een verhaal van Tommy en Tuppence.
Het paar is nu op gevorderde leeftijd en heeft een huis gekocht waar ze rustig hun oude dag willen doorbrengen.
Het duurt niet lang of Tommy is ook in de ban van de geheimzinnige gebeurtenissen van 60 jaar geleden.
Maar hoewel het lang geleden is, zijn er blijkbaar toch nog personen die niet willen dat de waarheid aan het licht komt.Ik vond dat er nogal erg veel herhalingen in het boek voorkwamen, alsof de schrijfster voor zichzelf nog eens op een rijtje wilde zetten wat ze nu al allemaal verteld heeft.
I went into this book with rock-bottom expectations, since I had read people's Goodreads reviews and previously decided to skip this, the last book Agatha Christie ever wrote.
I changed my mind when I realized how close I was to reading all of her works, and I'm glad I gave this book a chance, because it was not as bad as I expected: when you read this understanding that an elderly lady struggling with dementia wrote this near the end of her life, an otherwise dull book becomes impressive.
I can't give it two stars because it's Tommy and Tuppence, and I am very fond of them.
However, this is another embarrassing example of old Aggie attempting to combine her classic detective style with her later-in-life obsession with New World Order and conspiracy theories, and it's awful.
would be interesting if they were at all coherent, but they aren't, so they just sound like rambling.
Frankly I'm surprised more crazy British Nationalists don't hold her up as some kind of heroine of the Empire--it seems like the views she expressed would easily fit into their platform of awfulness.
It wasn't even a mystery, just a couple of old farts saying the same things over and over again, "So something happened here, you know, you here some things, something happened then, a long time ago, and people say things, and some things some people don't want other people learning, or else things will change." Contradictions, pointless passages and characters, completely wretched dialogue, I really can't see how this got published.
I understand it was the writer's last book, and she was super old and probably senile.
Her publisher's should have just pretended to lose it, just to save her some face.
Poslednji napisani - ne i poslednji objavljen - roman Agate Kristi prati poznati detektivski par, Tjupens i Tomija u resavanju zastarelog slucaja.Nazalost zaista slaba knjiga.Cold cases su mi inace jedna od omiljenih vrsta slucajeva ali knjiga je ispod proseka.3 zvezdice posto su Tomi i Tjupens simpaticni kao i uvek a i zato sto sam bolesna pa dajem sansu da sam mozda dzangrizavija nego inace
This was horribly written, much to my dismay. Most of the dialogue was rambling and irrelevant, so I skimmed. I do not skim! The resolution was out-of-the-blue and practically meaningless. Little plot, few characters...shocking from Agatha Christie! Our main duo was boring, and I'd adored them in all the earlier books.
And therein lies the problem: the rest of the book doesn't build to a solution, but simply, slowly, winds down.
Christie is my most-read author (40+ books) and I taught myself to read, very early, utilizing her books.
And by the time this was published, Christie had been writing for over 50 years and had produced almost 80 novels.
Christie may have been questioning her choices all along, as do Tommy and Tuppence.
Was Christie writing about one of her own marriages, or perhaps about a lifelong couple in her circle of friends?
I simply have great admiration for this author.
This review can also be found here!2.5/5This was just okay.
I read a Tommy & Tuppence mystery a while back (along with a short story that was in a collection) and thought that they were fun.
But this was just okay.
I loved the banter to it and how conversational it was, but it felt like the conversation got in the way of the mystery.
For a woman who wrote so prolifically, there’s bound to be some duds, but I was disappointed in this since I thought it would be good.
Aslında Eski Mısır'da geçen bir romanı daha var da onu zor günlerimde belki okurum, çünkü konusu beni bir türlü çekemedi.
O yüzden hayli yaşlanmış Tommy ve Tuppence'ı yazarken kendinden de bahsettiği belli.
Polisiyesi biraz yavan bir kitap, ondan okuduğum en kötü kitap Frankfurt Yolcusu'na da bir gönderme var hatta.
Biraz ajanlık anlatan bir öykü, aslında ne oldu ne olmadı tam anlaşılmıyor.
Yine de sürekli okutan bir yapısı var.
Zaten Tommy ve Tuppence'ın işleri ajanlıkla başlıyor ve onunla da bitiyor, yine de yarattığı en yavan dedektif ikilisi olarak görüyorum bu arkadaşları.
Kader Kapısı da fena olmayan bir veda hissi veriyor.
I know that Christie was fond of recycling plot elements.
I know many prolific authors forget what they said about a character (age etc) from one volume of a series to the next.
Ugh. At first it was nice to see Tommy and Tuppence as characters that age and evolve like real people.
After all, Christie wrote Poirot as a man nearing retirement age in the 1920s, and he continued to detect for about 50 years.
In this book, published in 1973, they are "over seventy" but the war happened "before their time." Along with everyone else's!
