https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/519312.The_Ship_of_Adventure
This book would have been a good, fitting ending to the series (as everyone knows, it was originally written as the final book) as the treasure hunting adventure and the Mediterranean locations manage to live up to the high standards of the premises and settings of the previous two books, if not to the exceptionally high standards of the first three.The only problems I have with this book are that the extremely convenient departure of Mrs Mannering and the breakdown of the ship's engines are far too contrived and convenient even to seem right in an Enid Blyton story, and that Mrs Mannering is cast in the unenviable role of stick-in-the-mud, ball-and-chain mother far more than in any other book in this series.
Only settings are more exciting with the search happening on a Greek island.
I was fascinated by the idea of visiting Greek islands.
I was so excited to visit an island Thassos many years later.
Phillip's pet plays a key role throughout in development of the story.
In the end, we have movement in the overall story with an important event happening in the life of the children - something for which grounds were being laid over the earlier 5 books.
From an overall series perspective, this book is a kind of relief after all the action and danger.
Gostei imenso. Adoro esta série da Enid Blyton. Este livro, se bem que não foi o meu favorito, foi uma ótima leitura, mesmo o que me apetecia ler neste momento.
This book is another re-read from my childhood.
Parts of it seem strange for modern day - would a parrot or monkey be allowed to travel on a cruise ship these days?
I highly doubt it.
The four children could have been nicer to Lucien, a boy they met on the ship who was a victim of bullying and child abuse.
They don't suffer fools gladly and in a modern world where bullying is endemic and life can be hard I would have liked to see them making an effort to look beyond the obvious.
Overall though, I still enjoyed the story.
Alkisah di sebuah pulau bernama Oupos, terdapat beberapa lubang yang merupakan penjara bawah tanah bagi para tawanan. Mereka dijebloskan ke dalam penjara melalui lubang-lubang yang terhampar di beberapa bagian pulau tersebut. Tanpa cahaya dan sedikit oksigen. Para penjaga memberi makan tawanan hanya dengan melemparkan makanan dari atas lubang.Kisah lainnya yang tak kalah seru juga berkaitan dengan petualangan mereka.
These books keep getting better and better! This is exactly the sort of thing I want to read more of, and has given me major wander/adventure-lust. I can't wait to pick up the next one!
Enid Blyton is an amazing childrens author, bestselling in the world. Although almost undiscovered by Americans.This series (The Adventure Series is 8 books long) Features 4 friends who fall into adventures with counterfeiters, gunrunners, treasure hunters and the like. Jack, Philip, Diana, and Lucy-Anne and their crazy talking parrot, KIKI, are a lot of fun to follow through their adventures... This series is top notch reading... introduce your children to Enid Blyton today!
A very good book, I recommend to Adventure lovers.
an excellent novel. enid blyton is one of my favorite authors, and this book is one of my favorites. ships in bottles, islands in the aegean sea, what more can you ask for, really?
Their antics while trying to get the map translated were enjoyable, although the children were not at their best, letting the awful Mr. Eppy (great villain, by the way) get his hands on two of the four pieces of the map.Then, for the second part of the book, Mrs. Mannering has to go back to England to look after one of those relatives who are always getting sick when Blyton needs to get rid of an adult.
Apparently Enid Blyton intended this to be the last book in the series, and it ends with Mrs. Mannering and Bill getting engaged.
Of course events conspire to create one after the 'fortunate' coincidences of meeting a child on board who knew about an ancient story of missing treasure, Mrs Mannering being called away and the cruise ship having engine trouble.
A Ship in a Bottle leads to a treasure map, danger and adventure.
I still have plenty of old EB books on my shelf and will gradually read through them.Having read other reviews it appears this was meant to be the sixth and last installment of this series, which was surely one of the best series by Enid Blyton.
For a long time whilst reading this book, I disliked everything about it.
It did pick up in places when the adventure finally got started properly, despite several elements of re-hashing; I am now thoroughly bored of Kiki scaring off baddies by hiding in dark caves and saying 'Pop goes the weasel' and such.
The plot contrivances really are too much this time, especially as I wasn't enjoying the book anyway when they came along.
Still, I decided to be generous when they got to the island and - apart from Kiki's part in it - I didn't mind the climax and resolution.
I don't think I read the Ship of Adventure as a child, certainly nothing came back to me about the story.
Even though it is pretty far fetched it was nice to see the children out witted for once, in previous adventures they have got away with some rubbish.
The children come across in quite a bad light at times too which wasn't present in the other adventures, they are not very nice to Lucien when he doesn't really do anything wrong except have big teeth.Of course Bill and Mrs Mannering decide to get married at the end.
This is probably my favorite in the Adventure series - but I'm a sucker for anything involving travel! Loved this story set partly on a cruise ship, partly in Mediterranean islands - a great vacation read for any age.
Such a fun read! It took an adult like me on a daring adventure much like Treasure Island. Made me feel like a kid again. It was truly a joy to read! I especially loved all the twists and turns Enid Blyton put in to this wonderful story.
Re-read on of my favorite Enid Blytons series. It took me back to the time I used to spend hours and hours reading and discussing these books!:)
One of the bestThe gang are taken on à cruise in the hope that it would keep them out of trouble. A treasure map they find changes all that.
Petualangannya berliku, tapi endingnya paling bikin bahagia. Bill dan Allie bakalan ngawasin anak anak bersama ❤
Incredibly predictable, the weakest of the series so far.
I think that this book is just a huge mess in the beginning but it started getting better in the middle.
My 6 yr old daughter has loved the entire Adventure series.
Best book forever amazing
I loved this book very much and will read it again.
"The Ship of Adventure" has been the first one of Enid Blyton's books I read and has easily kept me interested in the other ones as well when I've still been a little child reading about adventures and great mysteries leading to happy-ends.
The book is still written for children, which is why the language is kept comparatively simple.
The characters of the four children are only allowed to.have some major attributes rather than being more full-layered, but they are still very likeable, and the book absolutely succeeds in its attempt to create an intriguing story.
Mrs Mannering is determined that this time there will be no adventures on this holiday so in order to keep a close eye on Philip, Dinah, Jack, Lucy-Ann and Kiki she takes them on a cruise.
Cure time for an adventure!Really enjoyed this entry in Enid Blyton's adventure series great fun an opportunity to really expand the opportunities for adventure.
As always, when I re read any book in The Adventure Series I am transported back to the late 60's, early 70's, when I was a child.So along with nostalgia and still an enjoyable read after all this time I give 5 stars to The Ship of Adventure!Having never travelled the first half of my life, the faraway places in this book were intriguing to read about when I was young and having since been to these places I felt more entangled in this adventure!
Found this book on my book shelf - it was presented to me at Christmas 1957 as a prize for good attendance at Sunday School. Thought I would read it for old times sake. The amazing thing was that as I read through it I could remember parts of it. It certainly brought back the freedom innocence of being a child in the 50's. I wonder what the children of today make of reading these books today.
Entretenido libro en la línea de la escritora en donde un grupo de niños, junto con su inseparable mascota Kiki viven una aventura a bordo de un barco.De lectura fácil y divertida, da gusto ver como niños se divertían de una manera sana. Hoy totalmente impensable. Pero es bonito echar la vista atrás,...
Despite not being an avid Enid Blyton fan my Auntie gave me this series of books and I loved them and re-read them often. Less annoying than the 5 and 7 and just as predictable but strangely comforting :)
Having read the rest of the series in quick succession, I find these books are becoming formulaic. The 1950s gender stereotypes are being to grate. Both problems I think, were rather less of an issue when I was eight.
