https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/779509.Precious_Bane
This book was an absolute pleasure to read, from start to finish.
The depth and character development were stunning and you get such a glimpse at human nature - at it's best and worst.
It's almost a spiritual journey - after reading you find yourself savoring different passages to find all the truth you know is within them.
Precious Bane is AMAZING.
I don't know what exactly it was about it struck me as exquisitely beautiful, but it touched me and I finished it feeling like a better person.
Prue Sarn is such a relatable and sympathetic heroine, without ever becoming soppy or whiny.
A FANTASTIC book.
This is my number one favorite novel of all time. I can't really define the reason I love it so much. Sure, there's the lyrical writing, the sweet-yet-spunky protagonist, the gorgeous setting, and the best love story of all time. But there's something beyond all that which touches my soul. I always know I'll be life-long friends with anyone else who has ever read and loved this book.
It could have been set in medieval times, for the superstition, religious brutality and the treatment of women, children, and animals are awful.
Gideon changes, and remembering the opening scene of his fathers awful treatment of his children, it's not suprising.
This book also has hope as well as hardship, and kindness as well as brutality.
Prue is a wonderful character, you feel for her immensely throughout the book.
If only there were a sequel, I should love to have read about Prue's much hoped for basket of rushes.
Maybe this was what was being faintly echoed in what these old English folks came up with, as narrated by the principal protagonist here with her grieving mother, her brother Gideon and her dead father about to be buried:"At the coffin foot was our little pewter measure full of wine, and a crust of bread with it, but nobody touched them."The Sexton stepped forrard and said--"'Be there a Sin Eater?'"And Mother cried out--"'Alas, no!
This is a harsh tale, in the style of Thomas Hardy or even George Eliot, you'll see the characters you so much come to care for struggle in an unfair and prejudiced world, and you'll suffer along with them.Prudence Sarn is a country girl who lives with her simple mother and her older brother, Gideon, "Maister of the place".
In spite of her bleak future, she makes light of her woes and from very early on, she develops a special relationship with everything alive, her senses being aligned in harmony with the wild natural world; animals, trees and even the wind are her most beloved companions.Gideon, in contrast with good natured Prue, is as ambitious and severe as he is handsome.
I would never have heard of this book were it not for Goodreads.
Here is an excerpt from the introduction--"..what Mary Webb (author) gives us is more than the archetypal happy ending of the fairy tale, where transformations come to princesses and princes trapped in bear and frog skins, where the kiss from one who sees the trapped creature as beautiful sets the real beauty free.
Thus what is finally evoked in us is more than the fairy tale longing that our inner beauty will be seen so clearly it will make us beautiful before the world, it is the longing to be known and loved for all our blemishes, our warts and wens and contradictions, to be "let in" whole."Thirdly, the sense of place.
This novel is unlike any I've ever read, but its beauty and strength drew me in.
You can read summaries in myriad other places, so I will just say that the story, told in first-person, is sweet, wise, tragic, and real.
I give five stars only to books I would 1.
buy, and 2.
re-read.
I cannot recommend this to everyone, because it is definitely unusual; however, I think it is a worthwhile, thought-provoking read with truly beautiful language.
(Be forewarned of heavy dialect and atypical vocabulary that will slow down your normal reading pace.)
A book unlike any I've read before, but it was one of the most pure and beautiful stories I've ever read.
Precious Bane is not a quick read, the language in particular made the reading a bit slower (it is written in Old English and dripping with 19th century superstitions), but it could not have been told any other way.
The sentiment of a 'precious bane' carries through both Prue's character and her brother.
I found their banes to be what proved them, and Ms. Webb crafts a beautiful ending for the strong & beautiful characters of Prue & Kester.
This is a book that is so amazing that if you don't like it, I really don't want to hear about it. I only give it those of the race who know Joseph. Written in an old English venacular it tells a beautiful story of redemption and love. If you love literature this is a gem. My ultimate favorite for the last few years.
He'll say, 'There's a lot of butter-flies-as-is-to-be on our cabbages, Prue.' He won't say 'It's winter.' He'll say, 'Summer's sleeping.' And there's no bud little enough nor sad-colored enough for Kester not to callen it the beginnings of the blow.""I'm afraid Gideon had a very having spirit.""I thought maybe love was like that - a lot of coloured threads, and one master-thread of pure gold.""There came to me, I cannot tell whence, a most powerful sweetness that had never come to me afore.
This was a somewhat enjoyable story with good character development.
The love story in it was real with a dash of fairytale...I really enjoyed that part of the book.
I had such high hopes for this book after reading so many fantastic recommendations, and it did not measure up.
It did take a lot of work getting through the Old English language, but I was willing to sift through it for a fantastic story and characters.
Maybe my expectations were too high, or maybe it's because I read it after a book that had a great story, great characters, and was a much easier read.
My favourite book. I've only read it once and won't return to it because I don't want to ruin the magical memory I have of it. I only picked it up because I'd moved to Shropshire, the home of the late author who was much celebrated locally. It's written in a pretend dialect of nineteenth century country people which takes a bit of getting used to but ultimately works well. I loved the romance between Prue and Kester, two intelligent, compassionate people in a community which doesn't value either of these qualities.
One of my very favorite works. Mary Webb creates a fascinating, jealously enclosed environment whose landscape, characters and situations are almost otherworldly in their strangeness and intensity. Told through the eyes of Prue Sarn, a young woman born with the "curse" of a hare lip, emotions range from deification to humiliation, complete submission to complete selfish possession, passion to apathy, lust to absolutely pure love. I only recommend this book to people I "trust" to appreciate it.
While the dialect can be a challenge and the plot a bit slow, I was very impressed. It sounds like Thomas Hardy but is written by a woman, which makes me frustrated that it isn't as renowned as Hardy's work. There are passages that are so beautiful I had to read them out loud. Read Webb's biography on marywebb.org, too; her own life is fascinating. I also love that Stella Gibbons was parodying Webb (among others) in Cold Comfort. I understand why, but that doesn't diminish my feelings for Webb's work at all.
I know I mocked "Gone to Earth", and with good reason, but there was something about it nonetheless that made me think I'd like to check PB out.
Made me feel as if I'd been dropped directly into another time (dialect is iffy business to write in, but I think she did okay) - I like old words.2.
Webb is a wonderful nature writer.
Nature is another character for her.
Lovely, lovely - and every description of the Mere with its outer ring of bulrushes and inner ring of waterlilies - wonderful.
Instead, every member of the group loved it, and it is the only book ever to get a 5 star rating from everyone.I have read all Mary Webb's novels, and this is by far her best work, and sadly the only one I can recommend whole-heartedly, though "Gone to Earth" is also well worth reading - especially for anyone interested in feminism or the history of attitudes towards sexuality.
But all these other books are marred to some extent by third person narrative, which unfortunately allows Mary Webb herself to become an at times intrusive and preachy presence.
One of my new favorites among classics. I hadn't heard of this book until my mother read it and recommended it to me. At first I had difficulty with the old language but after awhile it got easier. An inspiring love story, with lush, vivid descriptions of nature, remarkable spiritual insights and compelling characterizations. Highly recommend this one.
Honest emotion beautifully expressed. It took a while getting into the book because of the dialect, but after I did I loved it. One of the best books I've read.
Also, although I didn’t think Kester was much to look at, I adored him anyway, as he deserved, and while the Prue and Gideon from the book look nothing like their BBC counterparts in my mind’s eye (both are more like the moody and evocative charcoal illustrations by Rowland Hilder – in Hilder’s work, Prue’s face is always in shadow or turned away, her body rawboned and rangy, that of a woman who spends her days plowing fields) Kester was very much informed by my impression of him from the film.What impressed me first about the book was Prue herself.
Understanding Napoleon is important, but I think it is just as important to know how people made their lives in times and places that are so different than ours."Precious Bane" takes place in a galaxy far far away.
The heroine, Prudence (Prue) Sarn, is the Jane Eyre of the book, even though she still has her family.
His downfall (not much of a spoiler after the first few chapters) is a mixture of Macbeth and "The Treasure of the Sierra Madre".The real star of "Precious Bane" is the language of an insular people.
I feel that they make her settings and scenes incredibly vivid.– I liked the fact that it was written in an odd dialect, and I found it quite easy to get into after a while.
In that sense, it doesn’t feel as though much has changed in our world.– The emotions are captured well.– I found Prue’s childish musings utterly adorable, and felt that they contrasted quite well with her care of and love for her mother.
For want of a better word, she was a very motherly figure, despite her young age.– An odd, sad book, interspersed with human cruelties of every kind.– It does not feel that well balanced on the whole.
On the one hand I wonder why this book isn't on my sons high school AP English book list, and on the other hand I wouldn't want to be the teacher who would have to put up with the groans and complaints about village dialect.The Bane represents the thing in a persons life that is toxic to their happiness.
Her brother, Gideon, had a bane too.
Other characters in the story also had banes, I think.
Tivvy, Beguildy, Felena - I think almost all of the characters had a bane.
This read is about the beauty of Mary Webb's writing.
We had a great discussion and once again, I am just thankful for those ladies who brighten up my every third Wednesday by sharing our joy of reading and bringing into my life books that I would never have known.
I read some of the Goodreads reviews, and it turns out that everyone of the disposition to read a book like this - exploring human nature, bringing the reader into the story's local dialect, customs and superstitions, and demonstrating an overwhelming love of place - ends up loving it.
This book takes its place among the great classics for me.
This is one of my favorite types of fiction: the kind that you can fall into, like stepping into a manhole.
One step and you are in a totally different world.
The insular life of rural Britain comes to vivid life in this highly romantic old novel, which brought posthumous fame and fortune to its unlucky author (http://marywebb.org/synopses/precious...).
I particularly admire the use of reading and the spiritual life as an escape for the heroine, Prue, from a really harsh and unpleasant existence.
So this book feels more authentically 'old' and historical than many a historical novel or historical romance.
Annoyingly, GoodReads makes it hard to zero in on just the edition I actually read. (OK, so it's the TEXT that we're interested in ... go to LibraryThing if you want to focus on specific editions!)Anyway, this is a marvelous, marvelous novel. Set in Britain of the early 1800s (I think), it has wonderful characters, stunning descriptive passages, strong conflict, struggle, triumph, surprises, and dialect to knock your socks off. And it's the ONLY book I've ever read that refers to a veterinarian as a "beast leech"!
This is my favorite book of all time. It gives me hope and inspiration. I appreciate the emphasis on inner beauty and how the heroine is ultimately rewarded for her humble, behind-the-scenes acts of kindness and selflessness. I have read it multiple times and highly recommend it. I first heard about it because of the "Masterpiece Theatre" program, which is also good.
I have come to realize that I am drawn to English literature. I loved this book! The English prose was beautifully descriptive as it wove a tale of human nature and love. The story took a different turn than I had expected, yet ended with the happily-ever-after I had hoped for.
This is the story of Prue Sarn, an intelligent and good-hearted young woman, born with a facial disfiguration (cleft lip); because of her condition she is both pitied and feared by her village neighbors (who suspect her of being a witch).
He is betrothed to a beautiful young girl, who he intend to marry despite his father-in-law-to-be objections.This is a story where ambition results in tragedy; romance is mixed with grief, superstition and ghosts.
The story started strong, waned by the middle but the ending was more exciting (view spoiler)[ although it leaned towards the melodramatic culminating in a too predictable fairy tale finale (hide spoiler)].
And, the mention that C.S. Lewis appreciated it gave me mixed feelings (he was so very much so much above me in most of his literary tastes and some of the books he loved have been incomprehensible to me, but then again, some others are my favorites now too.
And then, for the next day & a half, all I wanted to do was read/finish this book...hard when you're on a lovely beach that's also calling you to BE there not just feel the breeze/hear the waves (not to mention enjoy the family) whilst eyes are stuck on a page.
In direct contrast to Prue's goodness is her brother Gideon, who loves only money, and will sacrifice his own mother and wife to build his fortune.
Prue is the narrator of the book, and Mary Webb effortlessly allows her readers to emphasise with this young girl who can only watch as her brother sets about destroying all that she loves.
Living here in London in the 21st century, I'm willing to believe that people living in the early 18th Century in rural Shropshire really did act and speak as Mary Webb's characters do, and several of them will remain with you long after you have finished this book.
