https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/37095.The_Shell_Seekers
There's something about this book that always makes me resolve to move to Cornwall, bake lots of bread and have an enormous flower garden, and spend the rest of my days painting huge swathes of light on the beaches. That aside, this is one book that I regularly read every six months and love each time. I don't know how to describe it. Just go read it.
She grasps those things that matter most in life – the comfort of a home, the security of a loving mother, the laughter of friends and family, the feel of soil and the beauty of the outdoors, the enticing smells of home-cooked meals, and the allure of a splendid painting.
We are introduced to her three adult children – Nancy, Olivia and Noel - as well as others that have touched her life at some point or another – her treasured mother and father, an ill-suited husband, a loyal friend, a devoted lover, a grieving young woman and a secretive yet trustworthy gardener.
The title of this novel, The Shell Seekers, derives from a painting given to Penelope by her father, the prominent artist Lawrence Stern.

Rosamund Pilcher is consistently marketed via book jackets covered with flowers.
I'm not sure why.
On the surface, Pilcher's stories are nostalgic and evocative of magical other places where good things always happen to good people; but her novels and characters are consistently rich, complicated, and subtle.
At first, one is content to get to know the cast as their various stories unfold, but little by little the pieces - and the people - come together, and by the end one realizes how incredibly tight this novel is.It's the sort of novel that restores faith in life, and in fiction.
From the blurb: "Set in London and Cornwall from World War II to present(1983), The Shell Seekers tells the story of the Keeling family, and of the passions and heartbreak that have held them together for three generations.
The unifying thread is an oil painting entitled "The Shell Seekers," done by Penelope's father.
MY THOUGHTSI don't really want to write a review for this book, since it touched me so deeply, and I found such a connection with Penelope, that I would rather have talked about the bond of friendship we have formed!
It was a re-read, but goodness knows almost thirty years between reads made it brand new in many ways.
And other times, I can't believe that she isn't somewhere in the house and that a door won't open and she'll be there."For me, she nailed what it is to lose someone you truly love.And this passage that might be best understood by someone my own age, and yet I know I must have understood it even when I was so young, reading this for the first time:"A ring was the accepted sign of infinity, eternity.
The criticisms of this book are true enough--semi-cliched characters and all--but I just love them.
I love Penelope and this book makes me want to garden and cook soup and let everyone be themselves even if they're stuffy and stodgy or not at all in fashion.
I love that Antonia happens into Penelope's life and becomes inextricably linked and a better 'granddaughter' than her biological grandkids.
You really can't judge a book by its cover.People have recommended Rosamunde Pilcher's books to me for years, and I refused to read them because all the covers looked like they had been marinated in mothballs.
I literally had to fight the urge to hide the book under my jacket, lest one of my hipster friends caught sight of me leaving the building with it.But then I opened the front cover and started to read.
If you're smart enough to overlook a stupid looking cover for the sake of a great read, pick up this book.
Why in the world would Penelope stay in her never-should-have-happened-marriage when the author has done her best to describe her as a free-spirit, raised by an athiest father and French mother who both could have cared less if she married the father of her baby or took a lover while her husband (who she hoped would either die or leave her for someone else) was at war, who placed a nontraditional value to things (wasn't that the point of the the symbolic painting?
I wasn't hugely captivated by the plot, in fact, I thought it was rather weak and there were about 200 superfluous pages, with some extremely tedious moments during the mid-way section that meant I had to put it down for a few days and return to after a short break; having said that, it was a lovely journey to go on and I found myself transported to the wonderful places that the characters inhabited.Speaking of which, I though Penelope was such a wonderful, breath-of-fresh-air character.
It's a rare thing in books these days to have a wonderful, strong, independent older woman as a main character in any kind of medium (be it books, film or TV) and I enjoyed her immensely.
If you're a "good" character, then you're independent, stubborn, glossy haired, tall, beautiful.
You love France, holiday in Spain, dream of Cornwall, and believe in children out of wedlock and monied bohemian lifestyles (but not too monied, nor do you care too much about cashola, but it doesn't matter because it will come pouring down in the hundreds of thousands anyway).
You are or love gardeners or artists or offspring of artists.
Certainly it wasn't hard to blow through, and it was sort of fun watching all the foils of the story unfold in mediocrity.
Τρυφερό, πολυπρόσωπο, ενδιαφέρον βιβλίο και όμως τόσο δυνατό, η Πίλτσερ παρασύρει τον αναγνώστη σε μια υπέροχη ιστορία. Απο τις πιο χαρισματικές συγγραφείς με ιδιαίτερη ευαισθησία!Συναρπαστικό με εξαιρετικό αφηγηματικό λόγο ταξιδεύει τον αναγνωστή σε πανέμορφα αγγλικά τοπία και κυρίως στην Κορνουάλη, με μοναδικό αφηγηματικό λόγο.Μοναδικό αρνητικο σημείο του οι μακροσκελείς περιγραφές.
Yes, I have to add agreement. She wrote with such compassion without a hint of the maudlin. Her books were like rich soothing chocolate - perfect for blooming a centered core of caring/ peaceful contemplation. And they never enabled trouble or dysfunction, but seemed to disarm it at the source.The flowers on the bookcovers I understand. Graphics of her gardens. Her characters often centered themselves in gardening and her plant depth (knowledge of form and placements) was phenomenal.
I read this years ago when I lived in Seattle. I still remember it. A plot that one remembers for 20 years speaks a lot for a novel.
“She had loved them all, her children.
Loved each one the best, but for different reasons.
Love, she had found, had a strange way of multiplying.”Rosamunde Pilcher creates a full and mostly satisfying world here—a family saga heaped with descriptions of lovely gardens, splendid meals, the exotic beauty of Ibiza, and the tranquil coast of Cornwall.
I agree with Melody that there were some editing hiccups—and with other reviewers who found certain characters one-dimensional.
(The vicar’s theology was also troubling.)That said, there’s so much bathing in this novel—lots of “enormously hot and very deep” baths—that I found myself thinking these must be the cleanest characters in all of English literature.
I was at loose ends, not knowing what I felt like reading.
My eye fell upon ‘The Shell Seekers’ and I remembered that our mutual friend Claude also had given it 5 stars.
They, along with another mutual friend Gita, had all recommended this book to me a while ago, and I had forgotten all about it.)That was good enough for me!
I stayed up reading late each night, until my head started bobbing and I reluctantly had to close the book .
I couldn’t wait to read it all, yet I couldn’t bear for it to end.
My heart is full.----This is one of those few times when I feel like Goodreads should have a regular star rating, and then a separate award for those Special Books.
Rosamunde Pilcher is an author I've always meant to read, she's often mentioned in the same breath as comforting authors I love - Miss Read, Lucy Maud Montgomery, Georgette Heyer, but it took me this long to pick up one of her novels.
I chose The Shell Seekers based solely on the title - it's a beautiful evocation of summer, and what better time than the middle of a scorching July to think about seashells?
4.5 - 4.7/5 Εχω λιγη ωρα που το τελειωσα κ νιωθω ενα καψιμο, ενα γαργαλητο στο στομαχι.
Ειναι η γνωστη αντιδραση του οργανισμου μου οταν ενα βιβλιο μου αρεσει πολυ.
Μου αρεσει πολυ η γραφη της Πιλτσερ.
Ολη η ιστορια περιστρεφεται γυρω απο την Πενελοπε.
Αχ, αγαπημενη μου Πενελοπε, τι ζωη εζησες!
Μια ζωη γεματη αποκαλυψεις, παθος, ερωτα, μυστικα, απογοητευση, εκμεταλλευση, χαρα, λυτρωση κ απωλεια...Απωλεια...μια λεξη που ολους μας τρομαζει.
Ανθρωπους που αν τους χασουμε, χανουμε τον κοσμο κατω απο τα ποδια μας.
Ομως ποια απωλεια ποναει περισσοτερο; Αντικειμενων ή ανθρωπων; Η λεξη "απωλεια" ΠΟΝΑΕΙ ΠΑΝΤΑ!
Μια ιστορια που δε θα αφησει κανεναν ασυγκινητο!
I read this because it is one of my moms favorite authors/books and I wanted to be able to discuss it with her while she is still around.
It was very enjoyable and amusing book about a family and the issues one has to deal with as a parent ages.
Penelope (the matriarch of the family) is in the later years of her life.
I became so entranced by this book that it was all I wanted to read.
I will definitely put this book on my "to re-read" list.
If you enjoy evocative dreamy novels and atmospheric writing about mundane beautiful things, then this is the perfect choice.
The Shell Seekers is exactly what the blurb tells you it is: a novel of connection: of one family, and of the passions and heartbreak that have held them together for three generations.
It is about realistic characters who enjoy fine things and the simple beauty of life.
There wasn’t one likeable character throughout the entire book, still, I felt their humanity, they were all flawed, but genuine.
There wasn’t a single thing that I wasn’t able to foresee long before it happened, but it felt like real life.
I read this a million years ago. I still remember it being so good.
Penelope is a widow and has three children: the tiresome Nancy, the cool-headed Olivia, the materialistic Noel.
The paintings of Lawrence Stern have everybody's attention.The plot not only highlights the life of Penelope but also fleshes out Olivia beautifully.
Yes, I had to put up with the immaturity of Nancy and Noel, but the contrast allowed Penelope and Olivia to look all that much better.The book held my rapt attention throughout its 500+ pages.
This is one of my favourite books. It really is a magical story and Penelope is a character that stays with you long after you’ve finished the last page. Rosamunde Pilcher is a fantastic storyteller.
I had finished reading all the books I had taken, and in the hotel there was a BIG book by here called Winter Solstice.
Because I had nothing else to do I started to read it.
the story is about a woman of 60, ex actress who is involved with a man, of a certain age, who has just lost his wealthy wife and only daughter.
the plot involves a house in Scotland where they go, different people in her family, an English man coming back from America.
It is another book I can read over again and the characters have become like friends to me.
Ultrapassou as minhas expectativas. O melhor: Penelope é das melhores personagens que já li. O pior: a ediçao ser antiga com uma traduçao muito antiquada.
A partir daqui é o regresso ao passado e às suas origens, feito num relato emocionante que a autora tornou magnifico.Penélope teve uma infância feliz em Inglaterra, na companhia dos pais - mãe francesa e pai inglês; pintor - e poderia ter tido uma vida comum como qualquer outra mulher, não tivesse a vida reservado para ela algumas surpresas.
Uma grande história, que é também uma lição de vida.
Sim, porque a vida raramente é perfeita, e cabe a cada um de nós encontrar e desfrutar dos seus pequenos momentos.Os Apanhadores de Conchas é, na realidade, o nome de um quadro pintado pelo pai, que vai criar algum suspense ao longo da história, mas reserva uma agradável surpresa para o final.
This lovely novel is so atmospheric you feel you're there; you can almost smell the flowers, feel the tang of the sea and see light glint off the water.
My first reading of this book, so many years ago, instilled in me such an interest and a love for Cornwall that it remains today, while the well-written characters seem more to be real people than characters from a book.
An old favorite that is still a wonderful pleasure to revisit.4.5 stars instead of 5 simply because there are a few points in the story that I always think should have gone differently―but then real people seldom do everything you might hope.
This novel was positively wonderful. I enjoyed every single page of it.
(view spoiler)[Bettie's Books (hide spoiler)]
Another book that I really enjoyed because of the characters - the main character, Penelope, in particular. The story is another of those sprawling family stories (in both time and space and characters), which in general, I enjoy very much, as long as they are skillfully told and executed. Note: The rest of this review has been withdrawn due to the changes in Goodreads policy and enforcement. You can read why I came to this decision here.In the meantime, you can read the entire review at Smorgasbook
