https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/241061.The_Paranoid_Style_in_American_Politics_and_Other_Essays
And you guys can find a conspiracy, even here?Then my next thought: I’ve been promising myself I was going to read “The Paranoid Style in American Politics.” No time like the present, no time better than today.I’m glad, after all these years, that I read it.
This essay, first widely available in Harper’s November 1964 issue (I read the unabridged Oxford Lecture version, delivered a year before), may have been occasioned by the rise of Barry Goldwater, but it detects the “paranoid strain” as something that was present from the early days of the republic: from Federalist fear of the Illuminati (1796-1798) through the related Anti-Masonic Movement (1820s and ‘30s) and the anti-Catholic “Jesuit Threat” (1840s and 50s).
Granted, there is discontent with Obama because of the economy, and Eisenhower on foreign policy, but why this new criticism clouding debate?Hofstadter classifies this as the 'paranoid style' - not necessarily limited to conservatism, but broadly associated with it.
It includes a fear of compromise (seen in both Eisenhower and Obama), and redefining the opponent into a broadly conspiratorial role, which must be defeated utterly.
Another question is the personification of the extreme Fringe in conservatism - some 50 years ago it was Barry Goldwater, whose brinksmanship was very tempting in an era of national crisis - and yet so terrifying to a sufficient majority that LBJ trounced him.
(I think in my earlier days Hofstadter was tarred with the "liberal consensus" brush of ideas like Daniel Bell's "End of Ideology." To an aging liberal, however, Hofstadter holds up remarkably well.) Hofstadter takes a step back from the growing "pseudo-conservative" movement of the 1950s and 1960s and shows it in a broader historic context.
Whereas contemporary commentators and bloggers tend to get bogged down rebutting specific right-wing positions, which change from week to week and often contradict the previous position taken, Hofstadter sifts through the dishonest noise to extract the fundamental characteristics of pseudo-conservatism and hold them up to examination.
Starting right with the title, Hofstadter zeroes in on the contradictions and pathologies of the pseudo-conservative revolt and its adherents.
His sense that his political passions are unselfish and patriotic, in fact goes far to intensify his feeling of righteousness and his moral indignation.Who does that remind you of!The first half of the book contains three essays--the aforementioned Paranoid Style, and two other essays that deal with the Pseudo-Conservative Revolt; one in 1954, and one in 1965.
A hundred years later, it's difficult to understand the passion engendered by the idea of 'free silver', but I wonder if, a hundred years from now, people will even be capable of understanding the incredible amount of argument over the Affordable Care Act. So; highly recommended to political junkies and history buffs.
I re-read it last year. It could have been written today.
The parallels between what Hofstadter called "pseudo-conservatism" in 1954 and today are amply discerned when he claims, "It is at least conceivable that a highly organized and effective minority [has developed:] whose main threat is its power to create a political climate in which the rational pursuit of our well being and safety would become impossible." Glenn Beck anyone?Hofstadtler uses the term "paranoid style" in referring to the "heated exaggeration, suspiciousness, and conspiratorial fantasy" characteristic of certain minority political movements since the 18th century.
Since Americans have an anomic rootlessness in terms of status they are more prone to the paranoid style in politics.
First, Hofstadter is unfair to some of the historical movements he cites as presaging the "Paranoid Style".
The preachers who fanned the Illuminati scare in 1790s New England were wrong, it's true, but they were responding to a very real revolution in public mores and religious views.
The anti-Masonic party may have overestimated Masons' evil influence, but they were responding to a system of governance that served the elite, at a time when democratic institutions and the need of working people to be represented were coming into conflict with this system.
Because he has to harmonize his analysis of the Paranoid Style with his Consensus View of American history.
Eric kindly sent me a copy of the title essay, but I must certainly have a look at the entire book.The phrase “paranoid style” has been bandied about in discussions of American politics ever since Hofstadter wrote his article, back in the 1960s.
It points to an irrational fearfulness directed by the American right towards such people as communists, socialists, liberals and ethnic minorities.
The fact is we are all sensibly scared of criminals, terrorists, aggressive nations, and those people generally who would do us harm.
The paranoia comes in when we have elaborate and loopy fantasies about people and when our fears are disproportionate and extreme.

Its a pretty honest attempt to rake through McCarthyism and Goldwater's rise to discern the common themes, the rhetoric and perhaps the underlying emotional, psychological and social phenomena that keep this unique American brand of anti-intellectual aggression disguised as the defense of liberty a vital force, a bad dream we can't wake up from.
He connects it but contrasts it with earlier versions of conspiracy mongering and nativism which have periodically swept through the country - populism, antiCatholicism, anti-Masonic, KuKluxKlan.
pretty slick, even 50 years down the road. various essays on various topics, all insightful. eponymous essay is a true classic, detailing the variants of political paranoia, with attention to historical detail and to subgenres, such as the apocalyptic, the conspiratorial, and so on. best bit is that author smuggles in Frankfurt Marxism in the footnotes, which makes it fairly amazing that it was published during the Cold War in the US. E.g., great little essay on 'pseudo-conservativism' adopts adorno's work in the authoritarian personality, and we see franz Neumann and others showing up also.
But the commenter mentioned that the book of essays completely explained the Tea Party movement.
Author Richard Hofstadter, in addition to explaining the psychological causes of these movements, reveals that the same ideas and attitudes emerge in the anti-Illuminati, anti-Freemason, anti-Catholic, and anti-communist movements.
“Their true victory lay not in winning the election but in capturing the party -- in itself no mean achievement -- which gave them an unprecedented platform from which to propagandize for a sound view of the world.”Lastly, I have to note a fabulous quote from Hofstadter, who credited Robert Welch, founder of the John Birch Society, with the successes of the Right in the 1950s and early 1960s rather than Senator Joseph McCarthy since “McCarthy could barely organize his own files, much less a national movement.” Priceless!
This book is a collection of essays examining radical political groups that influence American politics.
The essays were well written and comprehensible, particularly in the first half of the book; the second half still is too, but they do get more scholarly and are meant for a more specific audience.
Although these essays explore multiple different aspects of fringe politics, it has a specific focus on the politics of the extreme right- a group that claims to be conservative, but is more willing to destroy political and social institutions rather than protect them like traditional conservatives do.
Part 1: 4 stars, incisive and thought-provoking.
Related to the title of the book.
Part 2: 2 stars.
The essays of part 2 might be good (so I'm not marking a 1), but they're unrelated to the description or purpose of the book, including such things as a biographical sketch of 'Coin' Harvey and the free silver movement, a strictly historical precis of the political environment leading to the American occupation of the Philippines, and an article on the Sherman Act. With zero connection to the first part or the title and description of the book, these 150pp of unrelated essays were added just because they were written by Hofstadter and because the publisher didn't want to send a 144pp volume to press.
I haven't finished this yet but I can already say I'll read it for a lifetime. I'm quoting it and recommending it to my friends and I'm going to go over it and some of its themes and issues again and again. As far as I can tell, it more or less prophesied the entire political situation of today....read it and shiver....
Although written in 1964, this short book covers the copious history of paranoia and conspiracy theories that has formed the nexus of American politics since before the Revolution. In a way, it's comforting to know that the lunacy spewing from our politicians is not new, and we have survived it before and will probably overcome it again.
I expected Hofstadter to be anachronistic, but reading Paranoid Style felt eerily contemporary in the current election cycle. While I found the tone incredibly snide, almost a caricature of liberal politics, the collection of essays was generally well written and interesting.
The introductory essay for a series of studies of anti establishment political movements that are more or less irrational or conspiratorial. Sets up the idea of a manichean interpretation of the world that is apocalyptic and hysterical. Interesting is hofstadter's faith in practical reason, that working politicians of all stripes share a common interest in getting things done and a general sense of how the world works. Not sure that is the case today. Moreover Trump goes beyond the idea that paranoia is a style to actually seem clinically paranoid.
The title essay in Hofstadter's collection rides point for a good reason: His novel insights into the paranoid vein running through American politics and culture, running for generations, gets clarified in his laser-precise prose.
He defines paranoia as follows: one who is "overheated, oversuspicious, overaggressive, grandiose, and apocalyptic in expression...[all directed] *against him*." In politics and in culture, it gets magnified in number.
To continue, Hofstadter uses his skill as a historian to locate quotes of how this strain appears reaching back 50, 100, 15o even to the American Revolution.
It is not cyclical because it does not re-appear; it is continuous and runs through the generations.
A disjointed set of essays - so only the first half of the book has anything to do with the title. The first half to had some interesting history on politics and fear. But, overall, I had trouble sticking with his writing style in these essays - especially the last one. His writings ramble and are overly wordy.
"One of the unspoken assumptions of presidential campaigns is that the leaders of both parties are patriots who, however serious their mistakes, must be accorded the right to govern. But an essential point in the pseudo-conservative world view is that our recent Presidents, being men of wholly evil intent, have conspired against the public good. This does more than discredit them: it calls into question the validity of the political system that keeps putting such men into office."
Richard Hofstadter's book and 1964 Harper’s article, The Paranoid Style in American Politics, dazzles with relevance for our contemporary situation.
In recent years we have seen angry minds at work mainly among extreme right-wingers, who have now demonstrated in the Goldwater movement how much political leverage can be got out of the animosities and passions of a small minority.
But behind this I believe there is a style of mind that is far from new and that is not necessarily right-wing.
I call it the paranoid style simply because no other word adequately evokes the sense of heated exaggeration, suspiciousness, and conspiratorial fantasy that I have in mind....
The writer explained about the mechanics and the mentality behind the lure of the paranoid style, and why this paranoia recurred over a long span of time and in different places.
Where in the past, the paranoid's influence was limited by word-of-mouth contacts and newsprint circulations, today, the paranoid militant can easily move the world by a stroke of keys, working out from a secluded corner somewhere in the world, and we are all his comrades when we share and spread that piece of news which may arouse fear and hatred.
'The Paranoid Style in American Politics: An Essay: from the Paranoid Style in American Politics' by Richard Hofstadter is a Vintage Books reprint.
The book talks about fringe groups and goes back quite a ways in history to show that they have been with us for a long time.
It was enlightening to read as I viewed what I considered to be fringe groups on both sides.
We have endured in spite of these groups, so I suppose there is comfort to be taken here.I received a review copy of this ebook from Knopf Doubleday Publishing Group, Vintage, and NetGalley in exchange for an honest review.
My only frustration is that Hofstadter thinks almost exclusively in the right-left paradigm and fails to acknowledge the role of paranoia in the American left and elsewhere.The essays in this book are not entirely focused on the topic of the paranoid style.
I am really not sure what a history of the Spanish-American War and failed occupation of the Philippines is doing in this book.
The first half of this book is essential reading for anyone interested in American politics.
The rest is okay if you want to brush up on your 19th century American history.
This is an important book from the 1960's that records for us that many of the problems we face today in our national politics have been here before. It is a collection of essays by a lucid political science professor from Columbia University who tells us about Goldwater, the Spanish American War, McCarthy, and the decision to go off of a bimetallic standard in the 1870s. Throughout, Hofstadter shows us how paranoia and caricatures undermine facts when people are obsessed with winning at all costs.
Should be required reading in every freshman Poli-Sci class. Still sadly relevant to the current moment.
For if it prosper, none dare call it treason,The difficulty many Americans have in understanding that their power in the world is not unlimited—a difficulty shared by no other people—Brogan explained by observing that in one very real sense the Americans had only recently been confronted by a situation long since familiar to the rest of the human race.
In fact, if you're short on time, just read the first essay, "The Paranoid Style in American Politics." If you have trouble locating the book, a slightly different version exists here: https://harpers.org/archive/1964/11/t...The essay is amazing.
Hofstadter discusses far-right movements including anti-Masonry, anti-Catholicism, and McCarthyism, illustrating the "paranoid style" of politics as described by historian Norman Cohen: “the megalomaniac view of oneself as the Elect, wholly good, abominably persecuted yet assured of ultimate triumph; the attribution of gigantic and demonic powers to the adversary; the refusal to accept the ineluctable limitations and imperfections of human existence.
Not an original observation, I know, but that Hoftstadter wrote this 50 years ago is pretty amazing:"The typical procedure of the higher paranoid scholarship is to start with such defensible assumptions and with a careful accumulation of facts, or at least of what appear to be facts, and to marshal these facts toward an overwhelming “proof” of the particular conspiracy that is to be established.
I swear he's described Sean Hannity and New Gingrich efore they were even born.Hofstadter expressly starts by saying that he's not making a general commentary on politics outside the USA; it's an observational essay of one country, and should be read in that vein with de Tocqueville.
