https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7073.A_Son_of_the_Circus
The actual timeline of the events cover less than two weeks of the doctor's visit to Bombay, helping to give the story a sense of unity and simmetry, but the pacing is leisurely with lengthy flashbacks within flashbacks going back decades to Farokh's early childhood fascination with the circus, his studies and courtship in Austria, a first contact with an American film crew in Bombay, his medical career in Toronto, his periodical returns to India, his success as a scriptwriter.
For Farrokh Daruwalla though, the circus comes to represent the whole meaning of life, from the childhood exuberance of miracles possible, to the ever present danger ("falling into the net") and constant struggle for survival, and ultimately to the revelation of the whole grotesque absurdity of reality.
As I said in my review of the previous book, A Prayer for Owen Meany, John Irving was not the best choice for a year-long chronological study of an author's growth and decline.
I didn't hate the book, but it's also far from okay.
Simply put, this didn't feel like a John Irving novel, aside from Martin Mills being the reincarnation of Owen Meany.
You can hate entire chapters, even hundreds of pages at a time, but then you get to the end and he sticks the landing.
Sure as shit doesn't feel like it."So, if I'm pressed, I give the majority of the book one star.
My favorite Irving book.
I have a love/hate relationship with Irving's work.
"Son" is a madhouse of a novel, even for Irving.
The plot(s) are dizzyingly complicated; the characters as bizarre as always, but somehow believable.
I loved the feeling for India in the book; and the humor--oh my!
The scene in the cab made me laugh until I cried, thus waking up my husband, as I was reading in bed.
If you can tolerate really, really weird situations, don't mind some mild but off-the-wall sexual references, and just want to read something completely different, this is a book for you.
I read this book by accident and discovered how rich a a story can be.
On page 635 of my copy (published by Corgi in 1995), I read: “‘I’m going to tell you a little story about my mother,’ said Martin Mills.
In fact, Martin left out no detail…” This brief extract summarises Irving’s writing perfectly, and accounts for the great length of this novel.Page after page, the author keeps on introducing new characters bits of information and frequently goes off at a tangent with seemingly irrelevant sidetracking.
So, if you feel that you are not sure where the book is heading when you have read about 300 pages, don’t despair!I will not attempt to summarise the complicated plot, which is at least as complex as, and often even more enjoyable, than that of a long Bollywood film.
I wanted to like it, really.
Irving is one of my favorite authors and reading his stuff is always an unique experience.
But this thing is ALL over the place: it doesn't know what it wants to be, or why.
I can't keep up with the ever-expanding cast of characters nor can I find a reason to care about them.
I don't know where the hell this thing is going, and I'm only halfway done.
I just cannot keep going.Still, Irving's prose is impeccable in places and I did like a couple of the characters — hence my 2 stars.
I buddy read this with my friend Edward.
I've always been a John Irving fan, but this one took me by surprise. It has a very slow start - I found myself struggling to get into it, thinking, "Why on earth would I care about an Indian circus and an Orthopedist's quest for dwarf blood?" (And yeah - it's exactly as weird as it sounds, at least at first.) I almost gave it up. Suddenly, though, after I pushed through the first two chapters, the dozens of characters started to gain their own identities, and all of a sudden,  bang! , I was in
Which is weird, since, as the book makes clear time and time again, it's not really about India.
It's part detective mystery, part rumination on global racial relations, part unapologetic schmaltz, funny as hell and surprisingly heartbreaking (it has a sneaky habit, like more than one of Irving's books, of catching you off guard.
This novel is a lot like A Prayer for Owen Meany in that its last chapters, wherein everything starts getting wrapped up, have a sense of mourning about them, at least in a general "time marches on" kind of sense that's sort of hard to pin down.
You have been reading John Irving’s ?Joey: ( hiding the book behind his back ) Ah,huh…er… I have.
GR: So , Is John Irving’s interesting?Joey: Er..I think I have heard a lot of good things about Rowell.
I’ve checked that you haven’t read A Son of the Circus by John Irving’s yet.Well, I don’’t wanna be a spoiler.
On the other hand, since it is now my third novel, I am now getting more familiar with his writing style than that I found out why I gave both A WIDOW FOR ONE YEAR and this one 1 star.
My favorite John Irving - I'm having a bit of hard time to single out what makes this one a notch above the rest (and above a huge number of others), but I'm certain that the intriguing setting of India and (this time) perfect blend of joy of telling a story and strange but likeable characters are keys to the whole.
2.5 stars.
My least favorite John Irving book and the only one I can say that I did not especially like, not that it isn't written with his usual level of skill and attention to detail.
But I found the plot and the characters far less addictive than that of the typical John Irving book.
I probably would have rated this a little higher if it was written by someone else but I have the highest of expectations for Irving novels.
He set a standard for himself with masterpieces such as The World According to Garp (to name just one) that I suppose is impossible to write up to every time out.
I am a big fan of Irving, but I found this one disappointing.
At long last I got around to reading Irving's long, LONG, LOOONG "A Son of the Circus", and despite its faults (and there are many, given its bloated 600+ page length), it's one of his best efforts, right up there with "A Prayer for Owen Meany", "...Garp", and "A Widow for One Year".
Irving lets the reader know in advance, however, that (although it's set there) the novel is not ABOUT India; rather, it's about feeling like a foreigner in your own country.
It's a tough feat for a New Englander to write an entire novel set in India, narrated by an ex-patriate Indian-cum-Canadian, and still make it a credible, interesting read.
The story is wacky, the main character Dr. Farrokh Daruwalla lives part-time in Canada and part-time in Bombay.
Dr. Daruwalla is an orthopedic surgeon and has three daughters (orthopedics feature predominantly in this book, oddly his own children play next to zero role at all) and a pseudo-son named John D.
At times I wondered why the doctor's daughters weren't featured in the story, but maybe that was to highlight how tight the bond is between him and John D, who isn't real kin but is loved just as much.
Easily worth five stars, but I probably read it wrong.
Here, though, I had to work at it: I thought I could read a chapter or two during my lunch break at work (very short chapters) but I kept getting confused, as Irving spent much of the first act jumping back and forth between the present (a single afternoon and evening) and various important events in the past--all flashbacks important to the rest of the story, of course, but not quite right for casual, light reading.
(after “Life After Garp”) Wonderful story, worth five stars (and will certainly earn 'em, next time), but make sure to devote your time to this one.
http://lolantaczyta.wordpress.com/201...
Tässä oli liikaa henkilöitä, mikä sai aikaan sekavuuden tunteen eikä tarina kiinnostanut tarpeeksi. Toivottavasti oman hyllyn lukemattomat Irvingin kirjat ovat parempia kuin tämä.
Sirkuksen poika oli Vesimiehen jälkeen pitkästyttävin John Irvingin kirja ikinä.Kaoottinen kuin Intia, jossa melkein kaikki tapahtuu. Ei hurmaavalla tavalla vaan sekopäisesti.On taas värikästä sakkia. Ikääntyvä tohtori ja parikymmentä muuta hahmoa, monikulttuurista ja -arvoista, sukupuoli-identiteettejä ja -tauteja, sirkusta, vammaisuutta, rikoksia, kääpiötä. Irvingille vähemmän ei todellakaan ole enemmän.Tähdistä toisen annan Irvingin humanismille. En kirjalle.
I love John Irving with an unbridled and, to be fair, probably pretty biased passion.
This novel was spastic and all over the place and I loved every second of it.
I have no idea how Irving manages to juggle so many plot lines and characters and voices and points of view, but he does it.
He does it with style and voice and with flair and I loved every second of it.
Sometimes I need a little crazy in my literary life and A Son of the Circus did not disappoint.
And I loved every second of it.
There is a great story in this book but halfway through Irving abandons it for personal politics and exploring issues such as homosexuality and aids.
These issues had nothing to do with the story and so felt forced.2 chapters before the end the main problem of the novel resolves itself leaving Irving two final chapters for wrapping up loose ends and believe it of not character development.
An internal problem was given to the main character in the first chapter and then abandoned.
At the end, Irving seems to have realized this and then tried to cram a novel's worth of struggles into about 20 pages.I have lowered my rating from 5 to 3 stars.
I'm a John Irving fan and this book did not disappoint. He weaves together characters from different decades and different countries, complex and rich in detail. The book is both disturbing in its subject matter as most of his books are but compelling in a way that I could hardly put it down. A great summer or vacation read as it is close to 700 pages long.
It's a couple of years i read my first irving ever, and it's one of the few books which made me laugh out loud...hilarious situations, incredible characters, highly recommended....
Fem stjerner bare for å illustrere at dette er min all-time Irving-favoritt.
Dr. Farrokh Daruwalla is a self-proclaimed man without a country; he's an immigrant who doesn't quite feel at home no matter where he is - his birthplace Bombay or his current home Toronto.
Because the feeling of not fitting in permeates Daruwalla's life, the reader can view this novel as a "fish out of water" story even though the fish was born in this particular pond.
Throw in a host of characters that include a former circus drawf, a Bollywood heartthrob, country club hoity toities (mostly in the form of a head steward), and a clueless American missionary for good measure, and you have classic Irving.
633 pages, and I never grew tired of it.
Irving was quite thorough about it, and actually I appreciate that.
Irving's theme is that of a man who never quite feels at home.
Dr. Daruwalla was born to a privileged family in India; he maintains a medical practice there for several months of the year, but his residence is now Toronto, and he doesn't fully identify with either culture.
The story takes place almost completely in India, and is a complex one, involving circus dwarves, a Bombay cinema star, an American missionary, prostitutes, transvestites of various kinds, hippies, social club members, and of course, because of a disturbing series of murders, a police detective and his unlikely wife.
I love John Irving but this one is reminding me too much of Until I Find You, a long drawn out affair that proved to be an exercise in tedium. Moving on to something else.
What I noticed about Irving’s characters was that they are always creative, different, no two alike, and the strange flaws he gives each character is what enhances the story.The story begins with Dr. Farrokh Daruwalla, a fifty-nine year orthopedic surgeon who lives in Toronto, Canada.
He deals with many other orthodox issues and people throughout the book and near the end Dr. Daruwalla is able to introduce the murderer.
I’m rating it for John Irving’s writing style, his creative characters, many unusual issue and events and for his clever ending.
The main story is basically a murder series.
His “adoptive” son, who has got a very unusual family story himself, lives in between Zürich and Bombay and pursues a career as a theatre actor in one city and as a more hated than loved movie star in the other.
Though John Irving would have had more than one occasion to put my favorite of his often repeated main themes into this book, we do not find a bear in the entire story.
There was even a significant part of the plot that revolved around a giant dildo (which, during my reading consideration phase, I must admit was probably the one part of the summary that almost had me writing the book off as too bizarre for me).
There were parts that had me literally laughing out loud, parts that had me completely surprised, and parts that had me intrigued enough to start googling different subjects of Indian culture (hijras, for example).In short: it was entertaining in many ways, on many levels.
But, stifle that feeling, and start reading, because there’s something for everyone in this novel, and you’ll be pleasantly surprised.
I didn't have any familiarity with Irving, only a vague, mild, positive feeling based on the fact that I read The World According to Garp ages ago and someone I respect once told me that A Prayer for Owen Meany was one of her favorite books.In the preface, Irving explains that the Indian setting is a work of research--he's only spent a few weeks in the country.
Oddly, that seemed only to enhance my connection with the work, because I've only spent a few weeks there myself.
Instead, it's about all of them as the 59-year-old Dr. Daruwalla has come to know them through his expatriate eyes, as a visitor, as one who will always be on the outside looking in.
Irving spends the first quarter of the book laying out the characters and connecting them to each other over time.
Because, from the outside looking in, these are our people.
