https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/23492671-the-rosie-effect
There is never a single problem in the “story” that Don doesn’t deal with easily, or Simsion magically solves for Don. Don and Rosie need a place to stay?
That is, when she’s not behaving like a total bitch in total contrast to her character in the first book but maybe that’s the hormones or something?Those are the main problems with The Rosie Effect though really there are too many faults all the way through this to list.
In the end, it’s very clear that The Rosie Effect was rushed out because everyone involved wanted to capitalise on the financial success of The Rosie Project.
Honest, hilarious, and easy to love (for the reader, not necessarily for the characters in the book).
I was also a little apprehensive, which happens when I finish a book that I thought would be a stand-alone and that was amazing as a stand-alone.After reading reviews that gave only a couple stars or only one star, I was downright SCARED and took my time getting around to reading it.
I will be honest and say that because I had read  The Rosie Project so long ago and because my memory gets worse and worse for every year that I age, the details of the first book were a bit fuzzy.
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/ Well, rats. Maybe my expectations were just too high after falling head over heels in love with The Rosie Project last year. Maybe there wasn’t enough magic left to make a worthy sequel. Whatever the case, I’m bummed I didn’t enjoy this as much as I thought I would.WARNING: IF YOU HAVE NOT YET READ THE ROSIE PROJECT AND INTEND TO DO SO, BACK AWAY FROM THIS REVIEW IMMEDIATELY. THERE IS ZERO WAY TO AVOID SPOILING THE FIRST BOOK AND STIL
Maybe my expectations were just too high after falling head over heels in love with The Rosie Project last year.
Whatever the case, I’m bummed I didn’t enjoy this as much as I thought I would.WARNING: IF YOU HAVE NOT YET READ THE ROSIE PROJECT AND INTEND TO DO SO, BACK AWAY FROM THIS REVIEW IMMEDIATELY.
(hide spoiler)]I’ve sat on this review for a few days now because my head told me to give it a low rating, but my love for Don told me to keep it high.
Is the magic gone?It feels like it is.Last year, I remember thinking that “The Rosie Project” was my favorite chick lit book ever, which was ironic because it had been written by a man.
I thought it was hilarious and original.This year, after reading “The Rosie Effect,” I am asking myself – was the first book much better or I just read it at the time when I had a better mood for it?I don’t know.
But reading “The Rosie Effect” just wasn’t the same.
In 'The Rosie Effect' we learn that Don has taken his resemblance and amplified it by repeating famous lines from Gregory Peck films ('Roman Holiday' in particular) which often results in Rosie feeling amorous towards Don. This is nice, and when Don first mentions his subtle ‘strategy’ it’s funny, and I cracked a smile … but Simsion repeats a variation of this joke about 20 times throughout the book.It is a sad day when mention of Gregory Peck in a novel becomes frustrating.
What a misnomer. There was hardly any "Rosie" in this book only, Don Tillman, and the rest of the guys. Also troubling, the women were portrayed as incubators, SJWs, inconsiderate, and unreasonable. How did we go from adorable Don to Narcissistic Don in less than a year? *facepalm*
There were many laugh aloud moments and lots of those delightful sequences where Don manages to land on his feet despite everything.
This book becomes much more serious than The Rosie Project though and there are some sad and some stressful moments too.
I was not happy with the character of Rosie for much of the book.
She seemed to have lost her high spirits and her understanding of Don somewhere along the way and at times I wanted to give her a good shake.
Don on the other hand was always just himself and Gene almost redeemed his character along the way.
In a new NYC setting, Rosie’s unplanned pregnancy has Don Tillman – and everyone else around him – assessing his suitability for fatherhood.
Expect much madcap hilarity.“My innate logical skills were significantly greater than my interpersonal skills,” Don notes in typical deadpan style, but by helping friends old and new he has some success in developing empathy.
A society of Don Tillmans would be efficient, safe, and pleasant for all of us.” As a big fan of appropriate fetus names, I also appreciated Don and Rosie’s choice of “Bud” (= Baby Under Development, but also fits cleverly with ‘Rosie’ and indicates friendly informality).Where could the series go next?
Unfortunately, The Rosie Effect is not like Curb in that it’s just not funny or entertaining.
I should have listened to Kelly before I read this.Anyway, what I choose to write my review on is the conflict in this story that falls on the feet of a despicable character named Lydia.
She’s one of the worst kinds of people imaginable; She condescends to others and uses guilt tactics without being completely informed (but of course she thinks she knows it all and will not listen to logic…), is pretentious, and she abuses her power.
I attended the Sydney launch of this book, so was really happy and interested to hear the background story of the author, and how The Rosie Project was bought to life, as well as this lovely second half.
I recommend re reading The Rosie Project, as the book is full of fun characters that to re visit them will really do its sequel justice.
All Aussie's will love this, as I'm sure people all around the world will, so if you haven't had the pleasure of meeting this series yet, I would highly recommend it to everyone.
I think I was among the minority of readers who wasn’t blown away by The Rosie Project.
I thought that it was rather sweet at times, but the character development didn't always feel natural.
So if The Rosie Project was seen as essentially Sheldon Cooper Falls in Love, then this is essentially Sheldon Cooper Has A Baby.
Here, Rosie announces she's pregnant ten months into their marriage.
I have no doubt that readers who enjoyed the first book more than I did will also enjoy the second book more than I did.
In turn that made me think perhaps this sequel was less enjoyable than the original, but the more I think about it, the more convinced I am that this book is just as good if not better than The Rosie Project.
I was just taken for a loop because this book seemed so much more “real” than the first, and real life is hard and awkward and rage inducing.Its possible that I was being too hard on Rosie, I think it is just so much easier to relate to Don, or at least to like Don because he is so transparent.
What it sorta felt like to me was that "The Rosie Project" was a novel; something an author put heart and soul into, bringing characters to life and falling in love with them and being invested in their lives and outcomes.
One the other hand, "The Rose Effect" felt like it was the quickly jotted down, unedited, unloved and uncared for brother of "The Rosie Project."I would 100% recommend just skipping this one, especially if you loved "The Rosie Project." Just leave The Project fresh in your mind and don't ruin a good thing by warping your perception of Graeme Simsion and his abilities by reading "The Rosie Effect," because thats exactly what it did for me!

Humoristisch, hilarisch...ik heb regelmatig hardop gelachen...!!Ik ben groot fan van Sheldon Cooper - The Big Bang Theory - en heb weer genoten van Don en Rosie, twee hartverwarmende personages. Het verhaal leest als een trein, vlot en goed geschreven. Ik kan niet wachten tot het volgende deel verschijnt!
A fun follow-up to the Rosie Project. Not as hilarious as the first book, but I did get to laugh out loud a couple of times. I do enjoy the antics of Don Tillman and will look forward to listening to the narrator's voice when the next book in the series comes out.3 out of 5 stars.
I smiled, laughed and got teary eyed in this book just as I did in The Rosie Project because it's fun, funny, sad and just an all-around feel good story .
However, this is more than just a feel good story.He and Rosie seem to be having some communication issues but they are not alone .
I read this sequel in a little different light than The Rosie Project because I remembered how my GR friend Margi's review touched me where she tells of her personal perspective on the story.
The second book in this series picks up shortly after the first book. I enjoyed the same parts of this book as I did the first one. The characters, the mis-interpretations from Don, the banter, and the situations. I enjoyed imagining living in a gorgeous apartment with a beer cellar (is this the dream?!). I just love Don's character- his antics and lists make me smile and appreciate the book. In my personal opinion, I don't think this series was warranted, I think the first book would've been enough. I enjoyed re-visiting, however I would've been fine without it.
I just felt sad for most of the characters much of the time, even when the crises Don got himself into were likely intended to add humor.
However, the ending had the same urgency and fast pace as the first book did, with our hero Don finally concluding the perfect way to connect with his love Rosie, which I appreciated.
If you're a fan of The Rosie Project and have been looking forward to this one, please don't let this review stop you!
You’ll see they’re just little adults, only they don’t know all the rules and tricks yet.”The Don Tillman series includes the following installments as of January 2015:#1-The Rosie Project#2-The Rosie Effect
I'm not saying that was the author's intent, but that's what it feels like.Both Rosie and Don clearly have some issues, but it's the way they work together that made the first book work so well.
Obviously she's a character with issues, but she was also sweet and fun and accepting.
There are the social faux pas that I would expect from his character, and then there were things that went WAY over the top.
هشدار: اسپویلر!هشدار بیشتر: اگه جلد اول رو دوست داشتین، نخوندین هم نخوندین. ولی اگه جلد اول رو دوست نداشتین، دیگه بههیچوجه نخونین!نمرۀ واقعی: دو و نیم.خدایا خدایا. کاش نویسنده این جلد رو نمینوشت. توی جلد قبل رزی میگفت دن واقعاً دوستش نداره، صرفاً از نظر تئوری دوستش داره و احساسات مردونه بهش نداره. بعد حالا اینجا میگه من ایمان دارم تو منو دوست داری ولی نسبت به بچهم هیچ حس پدرانهای نداری و فقط از نظر ذهنی سعی میکنی پدر باشی. سؤال من اینه: مگه مردای دیگه چطوریان؟! بچه توی شکم مادره. هورمونها توی بد
ولی اگه جلد اول رو دوست نداشتین، دیگه به‌هیچ‌وجه نخونین!نمرۀ واقعی: دو و نیم.خدایا خدایا.
توی جلد قبل رزی می‌گفت دن واقعاً دوستش نداره، صرفاً از نظر تئوری دوستش داره و احساسات مردونه بهش نداره.
نویسنده توی این جلد داستان رو واقعاً به‌حد کتاب‌های عامه‌پسند و زرد پایین آورده.
یه سری چیزاش خیلی خوب بودن؛ مثلاً جریان اون پارک بچه‌ها و دستگیر شدنِ دن و برای اینکه به رزی استرس نده، سونیا رو به‌جاش می‌آره و دربارۀ افسردگی بعد از زایمان تحقیق می‌کنه و اینا.
توی این جلد نویسنده خیلی سطحی نوشته و ایده‌هاش دم‌دستی‌ان.
صد صفحۀ آخر اینقد همه‌چی درهم برهم شده بود و شخصیت‌های زیادی توی این رابطه نقش داشتن که واقعاً می‌خواستم ولش کنم.
Razão e SentimentosLer é aprender, viajar, rir, chorar, amar, odiar... e é também fazer amigos!Conheci o Don quando Rosie era ainda um projeto, e devo confessar que se gostei de Rosie, simplesmente adorei o Don.Esse ingénuo, amoroso, introvertido e 300 por cento racional Don, arrebatou o meu coração :)Amigo fiel dos seus parcos amigos e super apaixonado pela sua bela Rosie, Don irá ser alvo de alguns contratempos!Conciliar amor e razão, não é tarefa fácil, não... ;)
Although they are now living in New York, Don’s good friend from Melbourne, Gene, comes to stay for a period.
He is NOT the same Gene we knew previously - he is full of (mostly) sound advice for Don. How Don interprets this advice is where some of his problems arise.I didn’t enjoy this as much as The Rosie Project and am not sure whether this is due to the sequel often not being as good as the first - I guess if the first of something is new and exciting, the second is never going to be new or as exciting.I also felt that the whole thing degenerated into some kind of farce about 4/5 of the way through.
I must admit I was a bit disappointed in this book which is - in my opinion - nothing like The Rosie Project.
I didn't feel a connection to the story nor Don or Rosie throughout most of the book, mostly because I didn't agree with their decisions which I considered silly and inconsiderate.
I am a bit flabbergasted at how much this book actually disappointed me.
There were several chapters where my mind started to drift because I didn't really care for the story, which is completely opposite to my reaction to The Rosie Project (which I adored!).
In the Rosie Project, I fell in love with Don and Rosie, this author, and the narrator of the audiobook.
Rosie is still going to school and as a result is not present in the story enough for one to know what's going on in her head.I think I laughed out loud more here than with the first book, but I also told Don to "just shut up" a few times when he went on and on a bit too much.
Still loved the characters, and have to give it 4 stars despite the story becoming somewhat discombobulated in parts.
I loved the second installment of this series!
Okay, it wasn't as fabulous as the first one, but I think that was because I'd already 'met' the main character Don Tillman so knew all his quirks and traits.
The first book 'The Rosie Project' was super brilliant because Don's personality was so interesting and new.
In the second installment, his personality is still interesting and I think he is really quite a beautiful character, but I guess the premise was already set in the first novel, so no real surprises there.
Still a really enjoyable read and I would recommend it to anyone who fell in love with Don in the first book :)
Trying to prepare for the baby and to avoid causing Rosie any stress result in some very funny moments where Don's lack of sensitivity to social cues and his logical approach gets him into some messy situations.
To some extent Rosie seems to have lost that understanding and empathy with Don that she had in the previous book and Don is left floundering around trying to work it all out on his own.
And before he gets a chance to do so, Rosie announces that they are having a baby.Don’s solution to multiple problems (accommodation deficit with respect to the imminent arrival of an overseas guest and an eventual addition to the family; a laundry confrontation with a neighbour; a twice-daily beer-related commitment; financial stress due to the (Don-induced) loss of employment at a cocktail bar; the need to keep Rosie’s stress levels at a minimum) is a wonderfully elegant example of lateral thinking that only someone of his extraordinary talents could manage.Gene’s advice on fatherhood is mostly sound, but unfortunately rather too vague for Don, who manages to get himself into trouble involving police, counsellors and support groups.
I spent the last third of the book in a state of great anxiety, worrying that things would not turn out all right, and then felt that the ending was over far too quick.
I will say that I wasn't disappointed in the ending, and there were a couple of nice twists that I was not expecting.
For a while I worried that Simsion was trying to make the point that, Sure we all loved Don in THE ROSIE PROJECT, but actually being married to him would be a nightmare and would never work out, which would be a pretty shitty thing to do.
1.5 stars - I didn't like it.This seriously disappointing sequel to The Rosie Project, should have actually been titled The Baby Project. This more appropriate suggestion is not a spoiler, as we find out about the baby 7 minutes into the book, and that is all we hear about for the next 100 pages. Baby this, baby that, baby baby baby. What is beyond the first 110ish pages, I cannot say, because that is where I DNF'd this baby.-------------------------------------------Favorite Quote: N/A.First Sentence: Orange juice was not scheduled for Fridays.
