https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/56776.The_Betsy
Going through some Harold Robbins books I got from a library sale.
This one was written when Robbins still seemed to give a damn about writing novels, but you can tell he got tired of it before finishing it.
It's not going to tax the brain and it's got about as much weight as a show like Revenge.
I've got two more Robbins novels in the stack to go.
if you have any interest at all in the world of bestselling writers, publishing in the 60s and 70s, and the perils of celebrity.
have i actually read this since i hit 17 (adult cutoff date)? who knows. does it have like an actual plot? who knows. do i remember it (first read ppbk very young)? only sex parts. misinformation at its best. but then, i was usually not thinking at those scenes...
The mighty American car companies are dying at the hands of small Japanese imports, the VW bug, and etc.
Hardeman howled as he stood from his desk, growing red with anger, "We can't touch the Gremlin at $1000 dollars.
They're beating us before we move an inch on price."Duncan, the chief engineer paled and said, "We tried sir, and we just can't do it and keep the air-conditioner in the Betsy."Hardeman seemed to swell, and Angeline, forgotten in the corner for now quietly lit a cigarette.
She lifted her drink to hide her expression.
"I won't build a car without air-conditioning god-dammit!!
If you want to display your sick headed fantasies go and make a porno or write a blog where shit like these gets publicised...Had I lived in your times, I swear on myself that I would have come all the way where you were and castrated you myself..
There was not even a single female character in the book who hasn't opened her mouth or legs to take what's in between the guy's legs..
I started reading this book because I took it for a mystery thriller..
Never going to read this sicko's book again..
Told by a tarnished angel corporate alpha guy, who gave up a career racing (and also lost his face, as we read in the opening scene in a Swiss hospital!) to sublimate his love of cars into a fictional corporation's R&D department.
In this one, the race is on to produce a new sporty car of some kind (there were some good driving scenes, but I lost the specificity of the car itself...) But also an ugly "tracing closet case" story, in which one of the corporate warriors is secretly betraying his wife with the most trollish and unpleasant of the executive cadre, and ultimately commits suicide, in shame.
It gave an interesting insight into the complexity of the car manufacturing world which is something I knew nothing about.
The brutal business dealings and plots were sort of fun.
This was another book where the author felt the need to have their male lead sleep with everything that moves.
Which wasn't really related to the plot too much.
If you don't like cars, this will bore you to sleep.
Not a brilliant piece of literary artwork by any means, but an interesting weekend read.
Imagine a world where women say only what men want to hear, where they work to fulfill a man’s every whim, and where they reach their, um…sexual satisfaction with the ease of turning on a light switch–this is the world Harold Robbins created in The Betsy.
Let me make it clear from the start: This is not a good novel; in fact, it is one of the worst novels I’ve ever read.
It took me forever to read it, because I could stand to read it for only fifteen or twenty minutes a day.Read full review at: http://keithallenbroyles.com/?p=274
Apparently this is the day I trawl Goodreads for all the books I illicitly read when I was way too young for them! This is not a book I should have read at the age of 12, but it definitely happened.
One of my all time favorite novel. Read it for 3 times.
Sexy adventurous and way ahead of its time.
Orbene, una volta ci spedì Betsy (lo aveva letto mia zia, non lui), salvo poi parlarne con la zia alla quale venne un accidente pensando che avevo solo 13 anni!
Ci sarebbe materiale per una soap di almeno 400 puntate e invece lui liquida figli che sono anche zii dei propri fratelli, relazioni extraconiugali con la nuora, suicidi, mafia, contrabbando, etc.
Mi ha incuriosito la descrizione del mondo delle automobili all'inizio degli anni '70 e scoprire che già allora negli Usa erano state introdotte restrizioni ecologiche alla potenza dei motori.

If you'd like a look inside the auto industry as it was at the time Harold Robbins wrote The Betsy, this is the book for you. Corporate politics, sex, violence, and intrigue surround the creation of a new car, the main character, Angelo Perino, calls The Betsy. Several twists in plot, seemingly out of the blue, catch you at the end of this entertaining story. All the loose ends are neatly wrapped up. All-in-all, for dedicated Harold Robbins' fans, this is a must-read.
Mr. Robbins novels are not for the faint of heart...they always contain frank discussions of sex and drugs, and often cross over into descriptions of same. Frequently--as in this novel--the sex is fetishistic in nature (one of the first scenes of this book involves a woman who drinks her lovers' urine, while he voids his bladder). Still, it was entertaining, and the storytelling is very compelling. Read it...if you dare.
Gründe für das Buch: - spannende Familiengeschichte mit Autoentwicklung- unterschiedliche Perspektiven aus unterschiedlichen Jahrzehnten- sehr flüssig zu lesenGründe gegen das Buch: - Manchmal durch die gleichen Namen Verwechselung- letzter Teil nur in der Ich-Sicht- Was ist nun mit dem Auto?
I love the boldness in Harold Robbins novels. Though the leads have grey shades but we still fall in love with them. THis one is about a complicated rich family who manufacture cars..the family is seriously complicated
My grandmother that passed earlier this year used to read a lot. Harold Robbins was one of the authors she used to read I actually read this book and many others of his when I was a teenager can you actual believe it.
I remember family members reading this when I was a child. Great insight into the auto industry. Character development was also great. A good insight into the thinking of the wealthy toward the working poor. Detailed sex wasn't need. Overall a good read.
One of Robbins' best, in my opinion.
isbn,original
I rather like it as a graphic description of how a man cuckolded his own son and impregnated his daughter-in-law.Trashy but very gripping.
liked the movie better, or maybe it was Kathleen Beller...
Re-read. I originally read this years ago and found the look at the auto industry fascinating. Now, reading it after all the bail outs it's not so interesting.
I haven't read Harold Robbins in years. I enjoyed his first books but as time went on, he got a little raunchy....to much sex and drugs but the plots were always good.
The original bonk-buster, OTT and ridiculous, but awesome nonetheless
The worstt of Harrold Robbins
Harold Robbins had by this time become one of my favorite fiction authors.
Too old to read now, read as a teenager.
hm
A book about ambition, power, passion & destruction..
