https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/166990.The_Solace_of_Open_Spaces
So she was on my vague periphery, but I was very happy to have had a chance to read this book, even if it isn't new.In the late 1970s, Ehrlich travels to Wyoming on a documentary assignment.
This book collects her writings about the wide-open, the west, the prairie, and the people who live there.
I loved her insight into the sometimes elusive ranchers, sheepherders, farmhands, and cowboys.
I loved her insight into herself.
Thanks to NetGalley and Open Road Media for the chance to read this forgotten gem.
A beautiful book with a great deal of thought put into words.
The book was written in 1985 and still feels current.
There are four chapters in this book that I fell in love with: The Solace of Open Spaces, The Smooth Skull of Winter, On Water, and the last chapter entitled A Storm, The Cornfield and Elk. One of my favorite paragraphs from that last chapter:“The French call the autumn leaf feuille morte.
We feel what the Japanese call “aware” - an almost untranslatable word meaning something like beauty tinged with sadness” A solid 4.5.
It had occurred to me that comfort was only a disguise for discomfort, reference points, a disguise for what will always change...For the first time I was able to take up residence on earth with no alibis, no self-promoting schemes.In her first essay, she writes of John, a sheep man who put her to work—extended hours of it, which she says woke her up:The arid country was a clean slate.
Traditionally, at least, ranch life has gone against materialism and has stood for the small achievements of the human conjoined with the animal, and the simpler pleasures...The toughness I was learning was not a martyred doggedness, a dumb heroism, but the art of accommodation.
“In the Great Plains, the vistas look like music, like Kyries of grass, but Wyoming seems to be the doingof a mad architect- tumbled and twisted, ribboned with faded, deathbed colors, thrust up and pulled down as if the place had been startled out of a deep sleep and thrown into pure light.”“Everything in nature invites us constantly to be what we are.
What we’ve interpreted as toughness—weathered skin, calloused hands, a squint in the eye and a growl in the voice—only masks the tenderness inside.”  In the late 1970s, Gretel Ehrlich traveled to Wyoming on a work assignment.
But, give me a book full of stories about real people in the real American West and I'm hooked.
Whether it be stories by Bess Streeter Aldrich or Willa Cather about prairie life, or Ralph Moody's memoirs, I'm riveted.
I've never understood it, myself, especially when it comes to Ralph Moody's books...
but there is something about those stories that fascinate me like nothing else.While The Solace of Open Spaces is about self, emotions, transiency, beauty, the nature and setting of the west &c., it also captures the indomitable spirit of the people who live simple but inspiring lives there.
Well written story of personal discovery. Portrayal of Wyoming is very crisp. It is a place of grand horizons, in which one's own place is clear. The American West is a great place for inspiration. A place where physical and spiritual survival are essential.
If you want me to read a book, naming it The Solace of Open Spaces is about as good a guarantee as The Sky, The Stars, The Wilderness.
In the late 1970s, Ehrlich traveled to Wyoming on assignment for her work, and stayed because it draw her in in her grief upon losing her loved one to cancer.
She lived there for many years, living and working on ranches, and this book is a collection of essays describing her time there and the feeling of living there.
Here is a quote, selected randomly:In Wyoming we are supplicants, waiting all spring for the water to come down, for the snow pack to melt and fill the creeks from which we irrigate.
What an extraordinary woman, on top of being a great writer! Rancher, explorer, journalist, nature writer... a "culture straddler "
When Gretel Ehrlich's partner died, she left her furiously paced New York life and moved to Wyoming to become a sheepherder. Even if you're not ready to drop everything and tend to animals, this book is powerful—I felt the solace that Ehrlich describes, and the city around me dropped away to reveal the clear, open, endless skies of the midwest and the relief of honest, back-breaking labor.
I couldn't put it down, but finally did after 3 hours of straight reading. My antihistamine was kicking in and I didn't want to miss anything. I wasn't making much progress because I kept re-reading - because of the beautiful writing not the antihistamines.To be able to recount your experiences, relationships, and adventures and, to top it off, write them down like that? Perfectly amazing. Thank you
'The Solace of Open Spaces' by Greta Ehrlich4 stars/ 8 out of 10In this book, Greta Ehrlich chronicles her first years, starting in the late 1970s, in Wyoming, the least populous of all US states.
This book is a collection of 12 essays, and covers many aspects of her time in Wyoming.
She writes about the people she meets and works with, the animals, the countryside, and general musings about life and isolation/solitude.
I will certainly look for more books by Greta Ehrlich.Thank you to Open Road Integrated Media, and to NetGalley for an ARC.
Elegiacal essays about hard scrabble Wyoming, sheep herding and living in isolation.
Short, evocative and poignant.
“‘I don’t know what in the hell makes those guys [townspeople and city-slickers] think they’re smarter than my horse.
63“Because they (herd animals) have the ability to read our involuntary tics and scents, we’re transparent to them and thus exposed -- we’re finally ourselves.” p.
64Stylistically muscular, evocative and precise often equating the nature of the land to its human inhabitants.
As they pick on road-killed deer we humans are apt to practice the small cruelties on each other.” p.
Wonderful essays on sheep and cattle herding in Wyoming. Beautiful environmental descriptions and philosophical musings. Makes me want to go out to the plains. Highly recommended.
Ehrlich writes poetically and conjures up a marvelous sense of place, but I never warmed up to this collection of essays about her time spent on a ranch in Wyoming. I think there was just a bit too much disconnect between the lyrical (and occasionally pretentious) writing and the harsh landscape and hardscrabble lives that she described. Worth a read but definitely not my favorite in the genre.
Beautiful, sparse, poetic. Every page moved me; every word brought me into the gritty, bitter, romantic landscape of Wyoming, which I found was exactly where I wanted to be.
This book is the result of what happened to her there.Written in fits and starts as she puts it, the book started out as a series of journal entries and letters, and eventually ended up as a collection of 12 essays about her impressions and experiences living in the West, the people she met and worked with along the way including Native American Sun Dancers, ranchers, sheepherders, cowboys, hermits, drunkards and madmen, as well as the animals she helped herd and care for, the brutal storms she barely survived, and the breathtaking beauty of the open range.
Her essays are a thoughtful, deep, well-observed look at the life, places, and people of the American West.First things first - you should know that despite being raised in the country I'm a city girl, happier in canyons of concrete than wide open spaces.My mother is the exact opposite and would be most at home at a ranch like the one Ehrlich worked on, and Solace has helped me see why.Everything in nature invites us constantly to be what we are.She takes the myth of the cowboy straight on and describes how life on a ranch, mostly alone if not for the animals, molds them.To be "tough" on a ranch has nothing to do with conquests and displays of power.
I really wanted to like this book.
But no matter how hard I tried to get through the whole thing it was torturous.
And I love wide open spaces and solitude and nature.
This book was so incredibly depressing.
The historic and continuing brutality of the ranchers towards anyone who gets in their way, their lack of respect for public lands, their overgrazing to fit as much cattle as possible on the land regardless of what it will do to man, beast or the land itself, made it hard to want to read more.
I find the high rating of this book a mystery.
A longer review to follow. But if I had read this book back in the early 80's when it was published, it would have been amazing because I was born in the early 80's. But if I had been old enough to read AND read this book back in the early 80's, I would have said: 'tone it down a bit, lady. You live in Wyoming now--leave the fancy words back in Hollywood.'
This is a beautifully crafted collection of essays about Wyoming and the people who live there. Ehrlich came from the city but made her life in the harsh vastness of this western state until it seemingly took root in her bones. It seems almost like a lost way of life—and maybe it is by now, over thirty years after the book was published. But I hope not.
Shocked that it took me to the age of 40 to "discover" this book. Up there with Dillard, Abbey, Leopold. Classic. Nice to find that the world can still surprise.
A series of essays about author Gretel Ehrlich's life of cowboying and sheepherding in the wide open expanses of northern Wyoming near the Bighorn Mountains. Because I have spent several short stays working on a cattle ranch in Idaho myself, I could very well relate to many of Ms. Ehrlich's experiences. The writing was smooth and soothing -- perfect for bedtime reading during my just-completed backpacking trip into the Sawtooth Mountains in Idaho. I especially enjoyed the chapters that dealt with rodeo events and the sacred Sun Dance ceremony of the Crow Indians.
Because it is insider her, because she is one with it, her writing illuminates the landscape she loves, the way I imagine it illuminated her in her time of need (and ever since).
It's a book foremost about place, that it shapes us and makes us who we are, from open spaces, to mountains, to tree roots that rise to the surface in search of water while the earth waits for rain.
It renders Wyoming's landscape in a way that had me longing for it, instilling in me a need for what had not registered before.
Considering the overall good rating of this book, I feel partially bad about disliking this set of essays, partially like I might have missed something and have to read it again (but God, no), and partially like maybe my differing opinion is necessary.
I tried to hum the Brokeback Mountain theme to myself while I read to make this book more interesting.
If you read a whole book of essays by a person, I feel like you should know at least a little bit about them.
Heck, that bit doesn't even have to be true, it just has to be felt because that means the book did it's job.
The worst writing in the book occurred in the "Rules of the Game" essay when she likened the women who do barrel racing to Wayne Gretzky (misspelling Gretzky's name to boot).
But the "bully" adjective shows how little she knows of Wayne Gretzky.
(To put that number in perspective, the true bullies of the sport typically average about 230 penalty minutes in one season alone.) More importantly, the guy won the Lady Bing award five times and would have won it more had he not already dominated the other awards.
Ehrlich falls in love with Wyoming when she comes there as a filmmaker, and decides to stay.
I've been wanting to read this book for years, ever since I bought a used copy after seeing Annie Dillard's endorsement: "Wyoming has found its Whitman." In some ways it reminded me of Ivan Doig's This House of Sky, which I also read recently.
Ehrlich writes about northern Wyoming, Doig about Montana.
Differences are their gender, of course, which fosters different viewpoints, and the fact that Doig was born and grew up in the land he writes about, whereas Ehrlich was an outsider who moved there as an adult.
Or maybe it was that the title led me to believe that the book would be filled with observations about healing and comfort found in open spaces of the American west, but aside from the fact that the author chose to live in the west after a personal tragedy, there is little in these essays that suggest that the open spaces provided the solace.
“Living well here has always been the art of making do in emotional as well as material ways.
The toughness I was learning was not a martyred doggedness, a dumb heroism, but the art of accommodation.
I thought: to be tough is to be fragile; to be tender is to be truly fierce.”A lovely, reflective little book about Wyoming life.
Ehrlich succumbs to some unnecessary lyricism (something that I have to say Annie Dillard seems to always expertly, deftly avoid when writing the same topics) from time to time, which is the only thing that dampened my enthusiasm for this slim little book.
I loved this collection of essays.It is as if you took the lyrical and sparse shorts Denis Johnson writes in Jesus' Son and cross them with the personal western narratives in Mark Spragg's Where Rivers Change Directions.
Very different experiences of Americana, equally brilliant.Those are two of my favorite books, so, needless to say, I give this a high recomendation.This excerpt is a good example of what you get throughout:"Animals hold us to what is present: to who we are at the time, not who we've been or how our bank accounts describe us.
