https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/5179.Mother_of_Pearl
Set in Petal, Mississippi during the 1950's, Mother of Pearl is a story about finding love and the connections between individuals regardless of our differences.
Despite these criticisms, there were some things I liked about this book - vivid imagery, a touch of humor resulting from the bantering between Even and his neighbor Canaan, the bond eventually created between Even and Valuable, the connections made between several of these characters which defied the overlying prejudices and segregation in the small town, and an important decision which was made at the end of this novel.
For some reason you want to keep reading it. Not because you're hoping for an explanation or a story or a plot. But because you want to know what in the world possessed the author to write a book that makes no sense.
I’m feeling guilty, first, because I didn’t read the whole book, finishing only about the first third.
I rarely don’t finish books, driven not only by an inner compulsion to complete what I’ve begun but also by the conviction that the author deserves his or her work to be read in its entirety before judgment is passed, and in this case I have failed Haynes.
I feel guilty, second, for having the temerity to evaluate a work I didn’t finish, knowing that I didn’t experience her vision or argument in its fullness, thereby opening myself to the accusation of unfairness.
Melinda Haynes has taken on a Herculean task, crafting a multicharacter story that reaches across racial barriers to encompass an entire community.
She doesn't shy away from the ugliness in life--bigotry of every stripe, mean-spiritedness, betrayal, thoughtless cruelty, and death--but what interests her is the potential of the human heart to find space within itself for the most unexpected people.
With its strong, lyrical language and fully realized characters, Mother of Pearl is a fine novel and a terrific introduction to a new literary voice.
--Alix Wilber --Frankly I couldn't say it any better than Alix so just read what he wrote.
It makes me sad that this is the only book in probably the last 20+ years that I just put down and never finished. I just absolutely could not get into it. Boring!
Time does not diminish the impact of a great story.I happened on Mother of Pearl at a used book sale.
Yet at the same time the conflicts and themes Ms. Haynes explores are universal.It’s a bit difficult to summarize the plot of Mother of Pearl.
In this case, the book pulled me into their desperate confusion, making me feel the breathless, scary exhilaration of first love.Mother of Pearl is not an easy book to read, categorize or review.
Perhaps this is the overarching theme—that the world is simultaneously painful and full of wonder.Really, I’m having a hard time conveying how much I loved this book, or why.
I just can't read this book, I probably shouldn't even write a view because I am only 25 pages in.
I am only able to read about 2 pages at a time and then I am done.
I have to re-read almost every page trying to make sense of why one line is about certain characters, and the next line about different characters.
I see that there are many mixed reviews on this book, maybe you need to like a specific genre to be intrigued by Mother of Pearl.
I'm going to begin my review by quoting from some of the jacket blurbs, to give you a sense of how well received this first time novelist was with her beautiful piece of work.From the Chicago Tribune: "Remarkable." From The Plain Dealer in Cleveland: "Haynes is the real thing, a true artist, a genuine writer, and in this book, at least, a genius....MOTHER OF PEARL transports us to the wilds of a different world." From Publishers Weekly: "In prose both rugged and beautiful, Haynes plumbs the secrets of the South in her stunning debut novel...She is fearless in portraying her characters flaws, their pettiness and racism, their erring thoughts, but she's also merciful, letting them grow and change during the course of the narrative,,,This wise, luminous novel demonstrates her great gifts-for language, courageous storytelling, and compassion." And from Booklist (starred review): Both richly humorous and deeply tragic, this story leaves one wiser, and makes one understand something meaningful and important about life and human nature.
I bought this book used so I didn't know it was an Oprah selection until I read some of the reviews on Amazon.
I was a little confused by some of the bad reviews here until I read a few of them.
Give this one a good try if you have trouble with it because it WILL come together.I've lived in the South all of my life and I thought many of the characters reminded me of people I've know over the years.
Racism was not (and will not) be gone overnight, but people like the characters in this book make that happen.
I read this book years ago when it first hit the market.
I fell in love with the characters, their dialogue, and the easy-going narration.
Melinda Haynes tells a sad tale of racial ambivalence, class order (or disorder), and the mistakes and sins common to mankind--regardless of the era.
The story charts the lives of Even Grade, a black man, and Valuable Korner, a fifteen-year-old white girl, the daughter of the town whore.
Their lives intersect at points neither could have imagined.
Yearnings for human connection, commitment, and love without strings brings this story to it's heart-felt ending.
I'd be reading about an event going to take place, a conversation between two people or maybe just a thought someone was having and then two pages later I'd be reading about the aftermath of said conversation or event that was to take place with no idea of when it happened...it felt like I was missing a piece of the puzzle only to find it already in place.
I can't think of another story I've read in which a random character is added in the last 50 pages of the book.
I really wanted to give it 3 just because I was annoyed about being confused so many times and having to go back and reread, which i really don't like doing.
I read this book for a project in Ms. Shakir's class.
This book was a little bit difficult to follow at some points ,but ultimately it all came together very nicely.
I admit, that yes, I indeed cried at the end, twice.
Once because it was sad, and once because it was happy.
This story is about a white girl named Valuble Korner, a black man named Even Grade.
This is a story about Love, morals, and tough choices.
I highly recommend this book.
A word of advice, this book tends to get very graphic so if you can't handle it, don't read it.
The plot is woven around the two main characters (Even Grade and Valuable Korner) and a witch, a goat, and some wise old people who live in a quirky little southern town in the 1950's.
The plot is full of twists that are shocking, humorous, and heart breaking.I read this book with a friend and had a blast.
I loved this book because it was very literary...
full of symbols, motifs, allusions, and figurative language that allows the reader to explore many levels of interpretation.
Definitely a book that needs to be read more than once to fully appreciate and understand its different levels.
Not an easy read, but completely worthwhile.
This was another in a long list of books that I was compelled to add to my “Want To Read” list a couple of years ago which I can’t for the life of me figure out/understand.
Typically, these are three words that would send me in the other direction if only because I often find the books she likes to be overtly preachy, or fanatical, or over-the-top emotional and I just can’t get behind that type of book right naw, you know?
But it was one of the first books I added, I didn’t want to be a quitter, and I had a long weekend, so I figured I might as well plow through it.
It has everything that I am looking for in a novel: a plot that doesn't go the way I would expect; interesting characters who are fully formed and really differentiated from each other; a rich sense of the time and place that the story is set in and interesting insights about social issues that makes me think about issues in a way I might not have previously.
It doesn't sound like much when the plot is broken down to a simple sentence but the detail that Haynes gives to her characters and their interior lives really separates it from other attempts at depicting this time and place.
This book served me a whole lot of southern vibes!Set in Mississippi in the 1950s, it tells the story of a small town where the color of your skin dictated the treatment you got.
When, Valuable, a sixteen year old girl, gets pregnant and everyone in town knows that she's no stranger to her boyfriend Jackson, because 'em gray eyes speak of the same father.
An unlikely friendship forms between Valuable; Joody Two Sun (who seems to know everything including the future), Even Grade, Canaan, Grace and Joleb.
Once the Green family were introduced to the mix I was hooked and read the last 300 pages in one sitting!The thing that struck me most was the contrast between the black and the white adults.
The teenage characters (white) suffer from the most awful parenting skills and a complete inability of their parents to guide, love and support.
The blacks are feared and hated, and the victims of cruel discrimination and social exclusion by the so-called "superior" white-folk, yet have the most to teach us about relationships, compassion and family.Definitely worth persevering with!
So here's the honest truth: when I first began Mother of Pearl, I was cringing.
was this going to be worth the time and effort?
I grew to love each and every character - even the ones with the weird names (like Valuable and Even), and with every chapter I wondered how the story was going to twist and turn.
The story of multiple characters in a small town one year seems like a simple story - but the depth of each of them was incredible.
I turned each page feeling like I was in that hot, humid town right there with them.
Set in Alabama and Mississippi in 1956.
This is the story of community where lives are interwoven and solid.
It shows that even when you have nothing concrete, you can fill your days with ritual and ceremony and tasks that validate being.
I put off reading this for almost a year after getting it.
I must have needed just the right time to have it told.
There was heartache and lust and loneliness and satire and mischief.
It did take almost 100 pages for me to get into the rhythm of the language, but the result was worth holding out for it.
I wanted to like this book because I heard good things, but I couldn't. The first chapters grated on me with the racist, sexist, and homophobic language that is heavily threaded through the narrative. But I kept going. I thought the story would get better, and it did! I started enjoying it about a third of the way in. But by the last 100 pages, I was sick of it again. It turned into a lot of purple prose and words for the sake of words. A better editor would have helped this book.
I have never been disappointed by books from Oprah's Book Club books.
Just finished reading MOTHER OF PEARL and I just can't get over the beauty of Melinda Haynes' writing, the complex characters and the lives of these people.
I cried, laughed out loud, giggled, and sobbed and sometimes all this in one chapter.
I felt love, sadness, hope, and anger, equally toward all of the characters and I want to know them all.
This book makes me want to go and find these people, because I know they exist.
Fantastic book all around!
I will read more of Melinda's books for sure!
Way too slow moving. The plot didn't make a lot of sense
Haynes tells the stories of Valuable Korner, a fatherless girl named after a real estate sign; Even Grade, an orphan, now grown, who was named for a road; and Joleb Green, whose name comes from a father he does not yet know.
At one point, I could not keep track at the number of characters that Haynes introduced within the story.
Bluish-brown pieces of silver shining like sunken music.'' In the end, although I enjoyed a lot of Haynes' depiction of Petal, Miss., I did not love this book by any means.
In Absolom, Absolom William Faulkner effectively combined Greek Tragedy, regional vernacular and Southern Gothic to create the story of a man desperate to hide behind Southern gentility and respectability and whose Machiavellian tactics are recounted through the subjectivity of others' interpretation.
Melinda Haynes in her debut novel, Mother of Pearl, is obviously indebted to the modernist prose and Southern heritage of William Faulkner, Flannery O' Connor, Fannie Flagg and Eudora Welty.
At times Mother of Pearl vividly recalls Toni Morrison's Song of Solomon with an ensemble cast of memorable characters who populate the small town of Petal Mississippi during the summer of 1956.
This book I came upon in advisory, randomly. I picked it up, saw it was in the Oprah Book Club and also saw that it took place in the South while segregation was still occurring, which interested me. After reading this book, I do not regret picking it up because it has such an interesting story of these people who are basically trying to find themselves. Haynes uses a lot of Character Nyms, imagery, and characterizations to develop the novel in a way that is classic. The story is mainly about a
After reading this book, I do not regret picking it up because it has such an interesting story of these people who are basically trying to find themselves.
There were also a lot of relationships which were explained in the book which helped develop the characters fulfill the worlds they wanted to a slight extent.
Even though this book was very long and seemed boring at some times, the overall story was very interesting to read about.
To see how people had to go against society in order to simply fulfill normal lives, which mean obtaining a family and anything else which becomes a necessity to you, it remarkable.
I chose it based solely on the Oprah seal of approval on the cover.What Melinda Haynes accomplished with her debut novel is nothing short of brilliance.
Valuable Korner, a white girl and 15-year-old daughter of the town whore, finds her life intersecting with that of Even Grade, a black man just trying to live the life handed to him.
Family secrets are unearthed, leaving young Valuable struggling against awful truths from the generations that came before.This is a story of redemption.
This is one of those books I have kept on my shelf long after reading.
I generally do not like to read "Oprah" books but I really found this book full of great characters that you wanted to know more about.
I felt so awful for the majority of the characters and the issues they were dealing with (don't want to give anything away till Katie reads it!) I loved Valuable and her sadness towards her family.
I think it was very good at describing what was happening in the book, how people were feeling etc...
I didn't think it was fair to some of the characters.........

Love Melinda's use of archaic language from a time long ago.I must agree with many of the previous reviews. Haynes pulls no punches and launches her first book with a broad menagerie of characters from all walks of life during the 1950s. Unique characters with an "Oh Brother, Where Art Thou" feel to it.The tragedy and triumph of the novel's characters may be too expected, but the effort and excellence of Haynes' skills as an author are obvious.
