https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/817501.On_Having_No_Head
Made me high reading it.
This is the key to the wisdom we all once possessed, as children, and this is the wisdom we lose when we "grow up", become "mature" and join the "real" world of jobs and money and the pursuit of "things" out there.
I read this book at about age 40, and it was as if I had discovered a long lost friend.
So, read this book and you too just might discover something that you once knew, something you have forgotten to remember - that you, like me, like every single one of us, simply...have no head.
Douglas Harding states in a couple places in the book, that sometimes things come into your life, just when you need them to.
This book is no exception.
An amazing read.
The first half of the book drew me in with it's playfulness.
Its nearly Seuss-ian banter on the idea, the amazing thought, that this man has no head.
It's beautiful, thoughtful and written with such a love for the material that it's simple to understand, to feel what the author is trying to convey.
In an area that can get very dense with it's verbiage and bogged down in terminology, it's a refreshing look at what it is "to have no head".
The premise of this little book is set of simple techniques that anyone can use to achieve instant enlightenment about who you really are. I got more results in 10 minutes from using Harding's methods that I have from countless hours of meditation. Some of the book is repetitious, because once you try the technique and "get it", that is really all you need to know.
This book will blow your head. A succinct and obvious perception of self. Enlightening, terrifying and unavoidable.I have just finished re-reading this, and it strikes me as even more profound than before. If you have a desire to know what all of "this" is, and you are only going to read one more book in your lifetime, this should be the one.
Despite Harding's protestations, I think his first satori experience had something to do with being on holiday in the Himalayas rather than, say, being in the conditions in which I read about it i.e. in a train underground between Tooting Bec and Balham.
A great book recommended by Sam Harris in his L.A lecture on Waking Up.
This book interests me because of a song written by Mike Heron Douglas Traherne Hardingby Mike Heron
ON HAVING NO HEAD is a short, funny, and down to earth book—literally pointing at who we really are.It is simple without being at all simplistic.
From this perspective, no one has direct experience of actually having a head.
In non-dual circles, this is not a new concept, though the approach (pointing at your head) most certainly is.I love his sense of humor—it is so very English.If you are open to different perspectives and approaches to the question “Who am I?” ON HAVING NO HEAD offers more than mere philosophy, it offers a refreshing view and a direct technique to apply this view.
the very suggestion of headlessness is for many people profoundly offensive, and there's no end to the objections they will raise.
Never mind: headlessness is for living always, for sharing occasionally, for arguing about never."What wise words!
(In a last-ditch effort to convince people that I had not lost my mind, I attempted to get my point across with the following picture):For anyone who has ever thought it odd that you never see your own face, questioned whether your dreams and memories are in the first or third person, or wondered why a first person movie is so jarring, this is the book for you.
Douglas Harding created a simple way of "seeing".
His mission was to help people experience what is really "here", right where they thought their head was!On the face of it this is a strange concept, but in fact it is incredibly simple!Most people think that they have a head sitting on their shoulders, just like all the other people that they see, have one on their shoulders.What Harding does is suggest a series of personal experiments that anyone can do, to help them realise that what they experience and see from atop their own shoulders is fundamentally different from what they see on top of other people's shoulders.These experiements lead to a personal "First Person" reality of what is really here.
It's actually a bit of zen genius and, as a result, I've been walking around headless all day.You will, undoubtedly, begin to understand the void and empty yet expansive space that spiritual leaders have long talked about.
A bit "out there" for me. I get the concept but I'm too much of a scientist and rational thinker to buy into this, or any religious thought for that matter. Interesting read, however.
A very poetic read (which is not my style)
One of the best books on Zen you can find. Short, succinct, spot-on.
"[This unknowing] is ceasing to take everything and anything for granted.
It is actually looking at the “meanest” stone and fallen leaf, at the “nastiest”piece of garbage, at “irrelevant”things like the shape and colour of shadows and the reflection of coloured city lights in wet roads at night (which we’ve ceased to see because we don’t drive round them).
It is consciously being what we really are - capacity for things - the space in which each of them is allowed to arrive at its peculiar kind of perfection.
It is consciously viewing everything from its source, reuniting it with the infinity that lies this side of it.
This excellent shot book provides a unique and create look at the concept of no-self. There’s a simplicity in the way Harding explains profound ideas that is very refreshing.
Of his own book Harding says it best on page (59) in stating: "...this really is too complicated and wordy." In short, this is a book of what Emptiness is Not (which is to say we don't Not exist but actually we don't exist as single entities independent of all other things) which I have said before, but in the theme of Harding I shall expand upon again just for the sake of writing more.
A very interesting approach to the idea of the absence of ego: the author is trying to share his own mystical experience he had as a young man in Himalayas when he realized that, unlike he had always thought, he (his ego) was exactly what he perceived with his senses - no more and no less.
And this feeling manifested itself through a phenomenon of "headlessness".
Though definitely interesting reading, I would not call it the most successful attempt to share personal religious experience.
The language is dense and somewhat elevated, which makes the narrative quite emotional, and its rational element becomes less visible on the background of endless superlatives.
A strange little book. Starts with a simple idea – you can’t directly see your own head, progresses to a still pretty simple idea, that you have a unique first-person view of your world, and then leaps to some sort of strange zen you-are-one-with-the-universe sort of thing. If you follow that leap then I guess this book may be pretty amazing (at least some people have told me it was), but for me it did nothing.
A classic on the subject of the human experience. If you have any interest in the subject matter, you have to read this book. It will turn your thinking upside down by forcing you to look at life and living from a completely different perspective. It takes the things that "go without saying" and points out what is false about them.
I enjoyed this enormously, I'm not going to pretend that I got it, not even after two readings. However, I did enjoy a refreshing approach attempting to explain the unexplainable.DH has given me something think about, for that a very big thank you. Maybe that is the essence of this book, it encourages you to Look Out and work it out yourself.
The first chapter is the best, where he describes the evidence for having a head (slim) and the subsequent experience of the world as a no-headed person. The place that used to be "your head" becomes the entire world around you. Try walking around with this perspective on the world.
The author's spiritual insight is that one cannot see one's head while looking out into the world.
Instead, one perceives the world itself where one would expect one's head to be.
This insight shifts perspective into a oneness with experience instead of a perspective as a being distinct from the world.
The book would be more eye-opening if it weren't for the fact that heads do actually exist.
The seeing of oneness and no-self is perfectly compatible with heads existing on bodies that perceive the world--including whatever bodies experience this insight.
However, the author's idea is a good illustration of how limited one's direct experience of reality actually is.
The first 30 or so pages of this "spiritual" book were quite eye opening.
I wish it (or I) stopped there.
The last fifty pages or so were largely incomprehensible to me for two reasons.
First was the author's voice so to say, his British phrasing.
I knew I was reading words but what they had to say escaped me.
This tiny classic of spiritual searching is not for the faint of heart or thick of head.
I have read countless books on this type of theme over the past 20 years, this one was by far the most difficult.
It's not easy to judge a book with this kind of purpose, a book which has the ultimate goal of making you realize that you don't have a head. Although the book within its pages advertises the simplicity of its own arguments, I found it just as difficult as other books of koans to really suss out what's really trying to be said.That said, there's just enough good stuff and advice in here to get you thinking about what it all means. The pointing at your "head" strategy is a pretty cute intro to some of Zen's harder topics.
Ever wonder what it would be like to transcend the ego? To achieve what Buddha speaks about when "nirvana" is mentioned? This book does as good a job as any I've read at describing what this is like. The title says it all...it's like "having no head."At times the book is long-winded...but I highly recommend it if you are keen to probe the depths of who you really are. A great compliment to those who enjoy Sam Harris, Alan Watts or other eastern spirituality and consciousness oriented philosophers / writers.
I just didn't get this. The author encourages you to look out from your eyes with such a level of naivety that you notice that you never see your own head. But that's not it, you should reject even the most basic inferences about yourself (such as, for instance, that a mirror shows you your head). I do recognise that this is supposed to be tonge in cheek, to some extent, but it didn't resonate with me.
Sam Harris always recommends this which is why I slogged through it. The flowery language that often didn't really communicate much to the analytic mind made me drift of often.Perhaps the topic at hand doesn't really lend itself to articulation? Or is it really just meaningless drivel with no relation to reality? I actually think it's more likely to be the former than the latter which is why I don't regret reading this.
Richard Feynman ended some advice by saying "it's a nice way to live, if you can do it". Douglas Harding's way is even nicer, but somewhat harder to take. A straightforward alternative to Becker's immortality project, this book is strange, genuine and truly valuable.
