https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/72253.Outsider_Plague_Fall_Exile_the_Kingdom
Străinul - 4,5*Ciuma - 5*Căderea - 5*Exilul şi împărăția - 3,5*
The style of Camus's writing is unbelievably approachable, with no futile metaphors or pointless descriptions.
Leaving the sterile theoretics of the philosophers aside, Albert Camus succeeds in highlighting the most important issues (at least in my point of view) of the common man.
What if one day, walking across a bridge you would hear a laughter behind you, but no one would be there ?
What if this laughter marks off a sudden awakening, the realization of your own hollowness.
He eats before the funeral, he has sex before taking any commitment, he searches for confort and risks the arabian's attack.
Eating,loving,confort=existence but being indifferent, absurd and atheist=lack of essenseHe does not have expectations and he expects nothing from nobody.
agree with Meursault, nor like him but i appreciate his truth, his responsabilty, and his freedom's spirit.I think sometimes is healthy to throw away the image that we think the society wants us to promote and maybe sometimes be a little bit more indifferent, by taking the responsable choice of simply not caring that much
He refuses to lie.Lying is not only saying whats isn't true .it is also in fact especially, saying more then one feels.we all do it ever day, to make life simpler
de ce #doamnesfinte am recitit astea în română?!
Două pentru picaturile cu care m-am împins să termin acest volum deloc neglijabil cantitativ.Calitativ însă, și, din păcate pentru rangul numelui autorului, a fost pură dezamăgire. Părând concentrat mai mult pe structură și stil, se ignoră sau, cel mult, se subțiază atenția acordată închegării personajelor din care curge o poveste la fel de neînchegată; vezi "Ciuma". Totul pare schițat, dezlânat, iar una dintre nuvele, și anume "Căderea" e umplută cu divagații și gânduri dezordonate de tip jurnal. Exceptând "Străinul", cu care se deschide volumul și care m-a captat într-o oarecare măsură, restul cărții a fost târâtă până la ultima pagină.
Certainly, Camus simplistic way of writing holds your attention but yet makes you uncomfortable as you ponder your own morality and that of the society around you.Meursault, the main character of this novel is an unusual character that comes from a widely different way of thinking.
His outlook on life is obtuse and widely different from your average person.Meursault makes me smile in certain parts of the book as his lack of hang ups and living in the moment ideology really raises eyebrows but he can be annoying with his laid back, almost unfeeling way of being.
I did feel like the book could have or maybe should have been longer as to establish the story better as i felt it was very abrupt and confusing as nothing ever got expanded on.
I did like the narrator and the point the book was making - that we have a preconceived expectation of 'normal' behaviour in society and cannot deal with someone who does not fit the criteria, thus labeling them 'Outsider'.
There were a lot of truths spoken by the narrator and i could identify with him a lot, which probably doesn't speak in my favour, but oh well...In conclusion - I liked the moral of the story, but I wish it would've been longer.
The Outsider: I enjoyed this, but I hated the main character. He turned out to be a despicable person and quite possibly one of the biggest idiots in fiction. I think he deserved to be an outsider, as anyone who shoots a person to death because he was hot that day, is a difficult person to understand. I tried to see his point of view, but I could not. Still, an interesting book and worth reading.
One things for sure - it is a strange book. It's certainly not comfortable easy reading that will put you in a better mood. Of course he is an exceptionally gifted writer and in French, I am sure it is even more powerful in French. Definitely worth a read- maybe more than one.
I read only outsider. A perfect classic from camus. The book is presented so lavishly, free flow and at times looks very slow. But the content and the understanding you get at the end is good. This makes us think what actually this society looks at an true outsider.
Only 'The Outsider'. Excellent read. Slow to start off but once you reach the end the whole thing hits you full force. Great ideas on morality and religion/atheism
The plague by Albert Camus (1960)
Read "The Outsider" only
I've only read The Outsider and it was quite intense for a such a small book. It leaves you marked in some way you can't decipher.
