https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/21927525-enter-the-saint
I read some  Saint books back YEARS ago (we're talking the 1960s here). I thought I'd try another just to how it held my interest.I think you'l find the writing a bit dated and thus the characters. This will come off now as period piece even though at the time it was written that wasn't so.I'd say (as in other cases) try some of these yourself. Templer is sort of a very urbane vigilante who does what's right...even if that is somewhat against the law.
There used to be this time when romantic ideals ruled the roost in terms of fantastic fiction.I mean characters like Robin Hood, Arsene Lupin, The Phantom and the person in question : Simon Templar.
The authors daughter writes in the foreword that she could hear her father chuckling to himself as he tapped away these stories at his typewriter.
It is not hard to imagine him doing so for he would have had oodles of fun writing these : car chases, damsels in distress, ugly villains and an ultra cool hero with nerves of steel.
But put a fencing foil in Simon Templar’s hand; throw him into dangerous swimming water; invite him to slither up a tree or the side of a house; set him on the wildest horse that ever bucked; ask him to throw a knife into a visiting card or shoot the three leaves out of an ace of clubs at twenty paces; suggest that he couldn’t put an arrow through a greengage held between your finger and thumb at the same range – and then you’d see something to tell your grandchildren." So writes Leslie Charteris in this book - the best description of what these books are.
No doubt it’s just a matter of when the stories were written versus whatever order the publisher decided to put them out in, although alternatively it might be a ruse by Templar himself to confuse and befuddle us before he makes his big move.That confusion though might help to explain e how it is that even though this is clearly set up as being The Saint’s first tale, it feels so fully formed.
After this, Leslie Charteris never felt the need to create another hero.Like so many volumes in the Saint saga (as Charteris called it) Enter the Saint consists of three loosely linked stories about Simon Templar.
Leslie Charteris happened to like writing the novelette length, stories containing about a dozen short chapters.
To the readers of thirties England, he must have seemed immensely different to the established heroes of other writers - to us, he probably recalls the bantering James Bond of the films (rather than the grimmer figure created by Ian Fleming).
Leslie Charteris is famous for inventing and writing full-length novels, novellas, and short stories on the character of the Saint between 1928 and 1963, including 20 just in the 1930s. Further, according to the preface to the edition used in the audiobook, written by Patricia Charteris Higgins, the author’s daughter, whom he named after the Saint’s true love, the Saint has sold over 40 million copies in multiple languages, three television series,15 films, 10 radio series, and a comic strip that ran for over a decade.Read the rest of this review and other fun, geeky articles at Fangirl Nation
Marginally better than the second installment of the Saint series, here we have Simon Templar and his merry men getting down to the serious business of cleaning up crime while cleaning out the crooks' pockets in favour of charity.
The Saint and his little angels will of course take their cut (well did you ever see a registered British charity that didn't?) but some of it really will get to hospitals and orphanages one way or another.The first story I found most forgettable, the second moreso, the third at least gives us more background on Simon's second in command, Dicky Tremayne.
The Saint books, featuring Simon Templar as the leader of a small group of idealistic young people out to see justice done, are classic.
Charteris published the first in 1930 and continued for decades; the Saint never lost his popularity.
Enter the Saint is one of the first, and shows its age.
The language is simply too dated, the style equally so.
Unfortunately.
Because I remember the Saint from the TV series and loved it.
But that, too, was a long time ago.Read it for historical interest but unfortunately the Saint has aged too much for my current tastes, I'm truly sort to say.
As good as I remember it.I started reading the Saint during one of its many reprints and read most of the stories I was reluctant to reread them because so many early favorites haven't held up well on reread. This one does, as long as you understand that inflation has added up over the past 85 odd years and gay had a very different meaning when these stories were written
The success of the Saint books for seventy years must mean that strict moralists are perhaps not as common as one ought to hope.There are three longish stories; a reference that may be presumed to be to Sir John Bittle (from Meet the Tiger) dates the first at nine months after the end of that opus.To enumerate plot details would probably be superfluous.
Patricia Holm now lives with the Saint although (daringly for 1930) they aren’t married, and Orace is still the stalwart retainer.A fine warm up to its sequel, what is possibly the best of all the Saint stories: The Last Hero (aka The Saint Closes the Case).
That there will always be a public for the old-style hero, who had a clear idea of justice, and a more than technical approach to love, and the ability to have some fun with his crusades.” Leslie Charteris is a one-man franchise to rival Disney and Marvel in his scope.
I always loved The Saint (Roger More) series in reruns, but never knew there was an exhaustive book series well worth reading.The style and language is decidedly dated, to the point of offending current sensibilities.
In Charteris' case, a resounding yes!
I’m a bit frustrated.
I love the Saint.
Husband recc’d the book..
didn’t know it was short stories.
I was beautifully involved with story #1 , when it ended.
Would love 1 single, wonderful (romantic) full-length escapade.
The result with the short stories is they all feel very similar, melding together a little after the fact..
Problem is they all felt like they ended suddenly & too soon.
In the 3rd story, I did enjoy Roger being prominent, but wished the saint had a bit more to do.
Again, conundrum of a short story.
Or these short stories anyway.
Oh. Loved it!)
I used to watch "The Saint" on TV when they re-ran it a few years ago.
Roger Moore was wonderful in the part.
"Enter the Saint" solved several questions I always had about the Saint and what his actual job was.
He solved crimes on his own--with a few associates--and kept a percentage of the take or reward for himself, giving the rest to charity.
As is mentioned on the book jacket--he was a kind of "Robin Hood".
This book contains 3 novellas.
In my mind I could picture Roger Moore on TV in these same stories.Very enjoyable and a fast read.
I found this novel, the basis for the 1960's television series, The Saint, to be an enjoyable read.
The protagonist Simon Templar is an anti-hero, a modern day Robin Hood figure, despised by Scotland Yard.
Enter the Saint is three novellas set in post World War I Britain.
The novellas are interesting, the best concerns the taking on drug smugglers.
Templar is debonair and a risk taker in shell shocked post-war Britain where institutions seem on the brink of collapse.
Enter the Saint to this void.
I'm told subsequent books were better.
I may have to revisit this author to see what I think.
I liked the book a lot. The stories were fun and there were some great lines.The one "complaint" I have is that the Saint is already well established and feared by the criminal community.....but not so much with the police (it is said that Inspector Teal has taken an interest in discovering who the Saint is). I thought that since this was the first "official" book in the series that he Saint's place wouldn't yet be so well established. I'm eager to read more of the books and the novel length exploits of the character.
I enjoyed reading this first Saint book. Three novellas in one book, so it provides short entertaining stories. The older english and use of some 'written as spoken' doesn't always make it easy to read.It took some time to get into the first story, but once it got going was very good. The second story was a lot simpler and it suffered as a result. The third story was more well balanced, though more a Dicky Tremayne story than a Saint story.
The book is a compilation of three short novels: "The Man Who was Clever", "The Policeman with Wings" and "The Lawless Lady". The idea of a band of heroes who rob the crooks and donate most of the spoils to charity is a good one. and the plots are not bad. However, I find the stories to be too drawn out. I suspect that is because they were originally written for magazine publication in the 1930s.
Recently my companion, who was surprised by "The Saint" film showing on AMC, thinking the TV series with Roger Moore was wholly original."Before the TV show," I said, "they were movies, before the movies they were books. I read one of them, a long time ago."Inspired by this moment I checked Amazon and found there are quite a few of Chateris's series available in Kindle format, for $4 or less. Classic stories. Hoping they will get me through the next few months.
I enjoyed the books that I have read very much and I also enjoyed the out of the biography that was written after the books thank you very much. I don't have 20 more words to put into this because I'm not that much of a talkerI enjoyed this book very much and I hope you can read more of these books and find them goodbye
Enter the Saint by Charteris is from 1930. The writing style, especially the dialogue is very dated. The book is made up of three long short stories. Not exactly mysteries, more like tales of how Simon Templer(the Saint)tripped up criminals. The 1962 TV series The Saint with Roger Moore was loosely based on Charteris’s books. Enter the Saint has not passed the test of time.
The Saint series is a guilty pleasure of mine. Leslie Charteris refused to update his books as the times changed. He kept his older stories set in their times with the technology and ideas/prejudices of the times. It makes these books not only fun adventure reads, but a window into the social beliefs of the age.
This collection of early Saint novellas is a pretty good primer for the character especially the one on the small screen played by Roger Moore. The prose and the characters have a youthful exuberance as they cross a few different kinds of criminals.
Entertaining hokumThe Saint is very similar to Bulldog Drummond. Simple, entertaining tales of derring do. Boys own adventures of danger and excitement by a crime fighter outside the law, but honourable.
An uneven collection of three stories. The first two are a fair amount of fun, three stars. The last is something of a bore, two stars. An average of 2.666 rounds up to a score of three stars.
Will probably read more of the series. He's a fun character and Charteris has a unique writing style that I found engaging.
I listened to this book and really enjoyed it. It was full of action which is one of the reasons I like these books. They are easy to listen too and the goody always wins.
quite goodThis review is from: Enter the Saint (The Saint Series) (Kindle Edition)Charteris himself acknowledged that the Saint is escapist literature. If you are seeking one of the "great books" you will not find it here. It is however, great escapist fun.The forward by Charteris' daughter, the preface and introduction by the author all aid in understanding the Saint phenomena. The information about Charteris at the end of the book is very interesting.
This remains a classic of its time, introducing one of the great characters of 20th century detective fiction.
Poor. This is both the first and last Charteris book I read.
Enter the Saint is a good detective novel, it was enjoyable enough. If you are inclined towards light mysteries then I think you'll really enjoy this novel. Nothing too heavy. Personally I'm more inclined to the more gritty, realistic stories so I could never really get into the novel. I enjoyed it enough, but not a favorite. Enter the Saint is well worth the time to see if this is for you.
