https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7137307-analytical-psychology
Man & His Symbols, a coffee table book, is intended as an introduction, but Analytical Psychology: Its Theory & Practice is far more satisfying for someone approaching Jung seriously, which is to say critically.Analytical Psychology was the name Jung wanted to give his school of thought.
But while Freud was successful in establishing psychoanalysis as something bigger than Freudianism, Jung had no such luck.
Here his audience consisted of psychiatrists and medical doctors schooled in the sciences--a serious, critical audience.
Those early works were, of course, those he wrote as a doctoral candidate and as a young psychiatrist in residency, works intended for vetted publication and critical review.
Väga lihtne lugeda, huvitav ning veenev.
ერთ რეკომენდაციას დავწერ: იუნგის ნაშრომების კითხვას თუ იწყებთ (ქართულად), ამ წიგნით დაიწყეთ.
بازخوانی سخنرانی چهارم تصویر کهن الگویی و جهانشمول اهمیت درمانی زیادی دارد. تعمیم یک بیماری شخصیبه لایه های غیر شخصی باعث می شود بیمار خود را منزوی و تک افتاده نداند. و اینمسئله قابل توجه است زیرا فرد رواننژند احساس انزوای وحشتناکی میکند و از رواننژندیخود شرمسار است.وظیفهی رویارویا کارکرد جبرانی دارد. رویاها واکنشی به نگرش خودآگاه ما هستند. درست مثل واکنشی که بدن ما به موارد تهدید کنندهی سلامتی نشان میدهد.رویا ها واکنش طبیعی خود تنظیمی سیستم روانی هستند
بازخوانی سخنرانی چهارم تصویر کهن الگویی و جهانشمول اهمیت درمانی زیادی دارد. تعمیم یک بیماری شخصیبه لایه های غیر شخصی باعث می شود بیمار خود را منزوی و تک افتاده نداند. و اینمسئله قابل توجه است زیرا فرد روان‌نژند احساس انزوای وحشتناکی می‌کند و از روان‌نژندیخود شرمسار است.وظیفه‌ی رویارویا کارکرد جبرانی دارد. رویاها واکنشی به نگرش خودآگاه ما هستند. درست مثل واکنشی که بدن ما به موارد تهدید کننده‌ی سلامتی نشان می‌دهد.رویا ها واکنش طبیعی خود تنظیمی سیستم روانی هستند
In these lectures, he presented summaries of his basic discoveries, and then responded to questions from his colleagues about how he used terminology (important in scientific inquiry), how he discovered certain phenomena, and how he applied his discoveries in working with patients--and further, how he spent his life exploring esoteric information from the past to piece together how the ancients, and those from different cultures, perceived, organized, and acted out the characteristics that make us human.
Mr. Jung's colleagues at the conference he presented these lectures at were very respectful of the fact that his knowledge bordered on mystery and changed our paradigm about how the psyche works.
He ends this series of lectures by stating, "Each patient is a new problem for the doctor, and he will only be cured of his neurosis if you help him to find his individual way to the solution of his conflicts." If you read any of his work, you will come to understand his open-mindedness and unwillingness to adhere to any fixed psychological terms or theories.
In this series of lectures he touches on everything from consciousness to unconsciousness, from dream symbolism to active imagination, personality types, projections, transference, and so much more in a way that can make anyone think a bit differently about the way we perceive both our own selves, other people around us, and the world in general.
Payel Yayınevi bir derleme yapmış, yapmış yapmasına da bilgi eksikliği var, pek de özenli bir yayıncılık örneği sayılmaz,ancak dilimize yeterince çevrilmemiş Jung söz konusu olduğu için bir nimet bu kitap. İçerisinde analitik psikoloji, psikoloji ve din adlı kitapların yanı sıra önemli bazı makaleler ve çevirmen Ender Gürol'un yaklaşık doksan sayfalık ön sözü, aforizmalar ve mektuplar var. Çeviri gayet başarılı. Sanırım şu an üçüncü baskısı yapılıyor. İlk baskı 1997 de yapılmış. güler misiniz ağlar mısınız...
List of IllustrationsEditorial NotePrefatory Note to the Original EditionForeword to the Routledge Classics Edition--Lecture One--DiscussionNotes--Lecture Two--DiscussionNotes--Lecture Three--DiscussionNotes--Lecture Four--DiscussionNotes--Lecture Five--DiscussionNotesAppendix: Participants in the DiscussionsList of Works CitedIndex
One of the best introductions to Jung, and at the same time, provides depth to those with more familiarity with Jung. Cannot recommend this book highly enough.
Jungian psychology and practice in a nutshell!
Late in his life, Carl Jung resisted calls to write a summary or introduction to his corpus for the layperson. "He said it in the nicest possible way, but with great firmness; he had never in the past tried to popularize his work, and he wasn't sure that he could successfully do so now; anyway, he was old and rather tired and not keen to take on such a long commitment about which he had so many doubts," John Freeman writes in his introduction to  Man and his Symbols . Shortly thereafter, Jung ha
He also expects to be loved for it."Speaking a few years after Hitler rose to power, but before the outbreak of World War 2, Jung also describes the appeal of Naziism in terms of archetypal imagery and the collective unconscious: in Germany, "you have the saviour complex as mass psychology.
Some [Freudians] seek gratification of desire and some others [Adlerians] fulfilment of power and yet others [Jungians] want to see the world as it is and leave things in peace.These lectures—along with Man and his Symbols—provide an accessible starting point to Jung's groundbreaking psychology.
A very accessible introduction into the ideas of Jung, interweaved with some remarkable eye openers and original thoughts.First Jung explains his ideas about the structure of the mind, in this transcription of a series of lectures given in 1935.
The strong characteristics of a person have weak counterparts, the inferior functions.
An intellectual likes complex rational thoughts, but his feelings are very undifferentiated.
'Fascism is the Latin form of religion.' The second part of the book is about explaining dreams.
Religions are a good way to structure this process, according to Jung, as they are 'therapeutic systems'.
In the first 1-2 lectures, Jung describes his theoretical structure of the conscious (the four controllable psychological functions), sub-conscious (four less controllable/uncontrollable psychic functions), and unconscious (including the personal and collective unconscious).
He then goes on to talk about word association tests, which was sort of interesting.
In the end he talks about projection, which is a sort of obvious psychological phenomenon we all engage in, and transference, another highly abstracted theory that wasn't of much interest to me.
If you're really interested in Jungian psychology, then this book is for you.
After reading others in the Bolinger series I kept grasping for "what is Analytic Psycholgy". I felt I had the background to tackle this book after digging deeply into Aion, Alchemical Studies to name a couple. After 50 pages here it became clear what I had been reading WAS AP just scattered and evolving over Jungs life timeRead this book if you want to know about AP and have a basic knowledge of Jungs concepts. Archetypes, Self, individuation etc
ბევრი რამ გაუგებარი იყო ჩემთვის, როგორც ფსიქოლოგიის არამცოდნესთვის, მაგრამ მაინც ჩამითრია. ვკითხულობდი და ნახევარს, ან ნახევარზე მეტს ვიგებდი, თუმცა არ იყო იმდენად მარტოვო, რომ დამმახსოვრებოდა. ბევრი რამ არ მახსოვს, მხოლოდ ალაგ-ალაგ. საინტერესოა, ძალიან.
Wonderful book that covers alot of Jungian Psychology in clear language from the man himself. I especially love that it is from a series of lectures and there are wonderfule question and anwer sessions after each one
really enjoyed th book and come back to it from time to time.
Analyse you psyche - nothing else is required...
