https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/77837.A_Good_Man_in_Africa
I loved this book and was quite surprised to see so many one star reviews. I think fans of Evelyn Waugh and of Kingsley Amis's Lucky Jim will like it. It helps if you don't mind the protagonist being a reprehensible character.
Morgan Leafy is a great tragi-comic character. This is a good story with a lot of humour.
This was William Boyd's award winning first novel so I thought I would give it a try after having LOVED Restless. This is dated and terrible, not at all funny. Don't waste your time. I kept hoping it would get better and it didn't. If I had known I wouldn't have wasted my time.
Every building was roofed with corrugated iron in various advanced stages of rusty erosion, and from the window of the Commission -- established nobly on a hill above town -- Morgan could see the roofs stretch before him, an ochrous tin checker-board, a bilious metallic sea, the paranoiac vision of a mad town planner."Morgan Leafy is the protagonist of this comedy set in the fictitious town of Nkongsamba, state capital of the Mid-West region of Kinjanja, West Africa.
Overweight, beleaguered Morgan Leafy, a minor official in the fictional African country of Kinjaja, muddles his way through a series of misadventures.
He faces scandal, blackmail, and venereal disease, as well as a righteous Scottish doctor, whom he must attempt to bribe.
A very funny novel, with solid, human characters and wonderfully bizarre situations that are nevertheless more believable than, say, Tom Sharpe’s.
This is more than just a comic novel, it’s an almost poignant commentary on what it means to be human.
Leafy is an ass, and he brings most (but not all) of his troubles on himself, yet he has the reader’s sympathy throughout.
I was literally in hysterics for an entire 20 page chapter - my husband was looking at me in awe as I have not laughed that long or hard in ages, and as he says, "I am a hard audience." That being said, it's not a riot throughout, but Boyd develops the characters so well that he can pull this off artfully.
Having lived in Africa and England, I really appreciated Boyd's characters in all their Africanness and their Britishness.
Morgan Leafy is an aspiring diplomat in a small West African nation, and despite the best of intentions, he makes a complete ass of himself.
In this case, as is often true with first novels, the early Boyd gets the worm.
This book is an over the top, scathing indictment of the English colonial presence in Africa.
The protagonist, Morgan Leafy, is a minor colonial official in a fictional west African country.
Attack fiction is fine, but the Leafy of the early pages is such a total waste (moral, human, intellectual, sexual, you name it) that I almost quit reading.
Not enough to warrant reading the book, however, unless you happen to like the type (Graham Greene does it much better, so stop there if your time is limited).
3.5★Morgan Leafy is a civil servant in the early 1970s Foreign Service posted to the small (mythical) country of Kinjanja in Africa.
He simultaneously has inferiority and superiority issues -- he walks around with a huge chip on his shoulder but feels innately more important than any of the Africans.
While this dicotomy is exaggerated in this satire, I suspect that it is not uncommon in people with Foreign Service postings in out-of-the-way places in Africa, Asia and elsewhere.
However, Boyd's satire didn't entertain me the way Evelyn Waugh did in his African satires -- the humor is more caustic and felt more mean-spirited.
The blurb on the back cover made this sound like a fun book to read.
After reading the first 7 pages I was bored with the writing style - the author keeps mentioning things that have happened to the protagonist, but then doesn't fully expand on them.
Unfortunately, we already know these titbits of information as they are on the back cover - they need to be expanded!!
Flicking through the rest of the book I realised I hadn't seemed to miss much by heading to the end - all in all, a dissappointment as the cover blurb promised much more than was delivered.
This colonial thinking is wonderfully illustrated by Morgan’s superior who in seeking to curry favour with a village strongman offers him a first class flight to London and a weekend at a swanky hotel.
When told of the offer the strongman responds in a vein that neatly expresses the post colonial order:‘Thank you,’ Adekunle said finally.
The British think they can still offer trinkets to greedy warlords and they will come running.
Rather than the simple duality of a colonial/colonised world, the new reality is simply amoral.
If she isn't exactly a beauty and her head is as empty as they come, Priscilla may be the answer to Leafy's problems: she's got the connections and the social graces he so clearly lacks.
If Morgan isn't the nicest bloke on the block, he's also no worse than many, but he's in that position between having responsibility he cannot shirk and not having any power to direct what he does (or for that matter, what anyone else does).
Whatever problem he solves turns out to need a different solution from the one he's come up with.
This is my third William Boyd.
Maybe some of the scandal of taking a black lover (and vice versa) or contracting a STD or being considered “uptight” sexually may have still titillated in some conservative circles in 1981 but I didn’t find it that funny or even interesting.
The book is structured into three parts which are the present, past and back to present.
Alas, he didn’t and the end left me flat.
I will try a couple more William Boyd’s but suggest this one is past it’s “best before” date.

The humor in the book is a side-splitting at some of his action novels are nail-biting.
Poor Morgan Leafy, he has a lot on his plate as we are introduced to him, and the novel does a great job of ratcheting up that tension in the first section and then retracing the steps--almost entirely missteps--that led him to all his predicaments.
It is that subtle British humor, though, that provides the glue to stick all these scenes together and keeps us turning one page after another asking, "How on earth will he get out of any of this?" A most enjoyable read!
Boy this has been a struggle. It's dated, not particularly funny, too much gratuitous sex, there are very few characters I actually liked - especially the main character, who I ended up rooting for something bad to happen to - and the one decent person in the whole thing gets gratuitously killed. It doesn't even have a satisfying ending. I probably wouldn't have bothered finishing it if it hadn't been for a Book Club.

But I’m not sure of what it is supposed to be a satire – or rather, what the object of Boyd’s undoubted wit is meant to be.I think it’s important to bear in mind how young Boyd was when he wrote it: in his twenties.
I think we can safely call this part of the plot " the death of Innocence" and can read a degree of allegory into it in terms of the whole book.
Very unlikely.I was interested to read an early Boyd, because I think he is a very gifted and thoughtful writer, and I wanted to see how he started out.
Wonderful..
Not as polished as Restless, cruder and lacking the ambition and emotional range of Any Human Heart, but more engaging than The Blue Afternoon: Will that do?It's the story of put-upon diplomat Morgan Leafy struggling to make any headway against the problems lobbed at him, often of his own making, in a forgotten Embassy in an African backwater.
Actually, A Good Man in Africa is a pretty entertaining romp in the Tom Sharpe mould.
Not that I can write of course, but you can easily spot these influences, like Sharpe, in this debut novel.What's more interesting is can also sense him breaking their shackles on his creativity.
Well, I think you can possibly tell that this is William Boyd's first book - it is very well written, but just too long and a touch boring in places alas.
Obviously Boyd knows his Africa and some of the insights were interesting and you could certainly imagine the heat, dust, insects, etc through his description.
I found it slightly amusing in places but not laugh out loud funny, although maybe that's just me.
Will certainly read all the other books he has written that I haven't read yet and I am sure with each one he gets better and better.
It is the nineteen seventies.
Morgan Leafy is secretary to the Commission in an old colonial backwater in West Africa.
The unlikely hero of the story, Morgan is unattractive, overweight, socially inept and morally lax.
His dissolute lifestyle lands him into all kinds of trouble-from the squirmingly embarrassing to the downright gross.
His colleagues treat him with contempt and his superior uses and abuses him for his own political and personal ends.
Morgan becomes embroiled in acts of bribery and corruption, not least body-snatching and despite his unwitting bravery, all ends badly!This is a well-written, well-constructed and very entertaining novel.

One of the key objectives when I write a review is to help others decide if a book is right good them to read, and I think it is particularly relevant in this case.
One of the key things with Boyd though is don't go into his books with preconceptions of an expectation that this will be like 'Restless' or 'Any human heart ' as it's nothing like those, as some other reviewers have pointed out it's more akin too 'Lucky Jim' by Kingsley Amis.
If you want a good straightforward romp similar to some of boyds other works, maybe give it a miss
Upon the recommendation of a Scottish book seller, I read William Boyd’s Any Human Heart, which I thoroughly enjoyed.
The experience suggested I read more of Boyd’s work, and I decided to start at the beginning with a Good Man in Africa.
It was a disappointment.This book rambles along telling the story of a hapless junior British diplomat in a small African country who complicates his life through a series of bad judgments.
Some reviewers suggest it’s a comedy.
I will give Boyd another try, hoping that his later work will match the captivating experience I had with Any Human Heart.
I've read a number of William Boyd's novels with varying enjoyment. Restless was very good indeed. This one was ok - in that I actually completed it, but really seems so dated now especially the humour which derives from the 'Carry On' film era. It was only occasionally funny. The characters were near- stereotypes, including a jocular Welshman and a dour Scotsman, and the representation of both women and black Africans was pretty poor. I couldn't give this book any recommendation.
I don't think this is a novel that transcends time. Reviewed to be hilariously funny I didn't find where those laughs would come from. Essentially a bumbling foreign diplomat to Africa Morgan Leafy stumbles from one catastrophe to the next via a string of sexual liaisons. I had no real feeling for any of the characters, all having their own flaws and all only concerned about themselves. It wasn't a difficult read
Read this one after Waiting for Sunrise, as I wasn't sure how to feel about that one. This debut is much funnier, less subtle and mysterious and thus easier to appreciate immediately. Now I am happy I've read both an am considering Brazzaville Beach for a next read. The author is very clever in his flashbacks and suspense, also a great storyteller and has a talent for portraying somewhat obnoxious and selfish outsiders forced to take action in awkward situations.
The first William Boyd's I read was Solo and loved his writing style, so I then read Brazzaville Beach which I loved. He is best known for A Good Man in Africa and I wish I had started here, in the vein of Orwell's Burmese Days, an ex-pat in Africa stumbles along in West Africa, with humour and tribulations aplenty. The novel is well written and carries you along a splendid adventure that I couldn't put down.
William Boyd's first novel is quite old fashioned really. A tragi-comic main character gets into scrapes in a forgotten outpost in West Africa.It is very funny in parts and an enjoyable romp. It reminded me strongly of Kingsley Amis, especially Lucky Jim, with which there are several parallels. As a fan of Amis, this is clearly no bad thing!
Superb. For anyone who has lived and worked in Anglophile, sub-Saharan Africa, this is a must read. Morgan Leafy is so hopeless and lost that you can't help cheering him on as he lurches between failures and dilemnas which had many horns. Hilarious and poignant. One of my favourites.
