https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/9579634-prince-of-thorns
Hurry before they go.https://grimoakpress.com/products/lim...It has 10 pieces of internal art by trilogy cover artist Jason Chan.
Here's one from very near the end.Join my 3-emails-a-year newsletter #prizesRoad Brothers : tales from the Broken Empire is now out!https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2...an anthology of 14 short stories about Jorg &/or his companions!Prince of Thorns is 24th on Goodreads' voteable Best Epic Fantasy list!
Robin Hobb (newly welcomed to Goodreads) reviewed my book on Goodreads!
LOOK That's officially ten types of awesome right there!Yay!
Terry Brooks reviewed my book on Goodreads!LOOK Unreal!
Rick Riordan reviewed Prince of Thorns on Goodreads!
LOOK Yay!
Peter V Brett reviewed Prince of Thorns on Goodreads!
I had to grit my teeth several times to get through this, and more than once I wondered, "Why was this recommended to me?" Then the pieces began to fall into place. Not a tale for the faint of heart, but well worth it to prevail. Trust me.
I've heard of dark fantasy and anti-heroes, but this is the darkest fantasy with the anti-est anti-hero I've ever encountered.
Our protagonist Jorg is only thirteen, but do not mistake this for a kids' book!
Despite all this, I found myself rooting for Jorg, especially as more of his past is revealed, and we learn why he has become such a hardened, unrepentant killer.
Jorg intends to find out.
If you've ever wanted to read a first-person book about a hero who is also the darkest of villains, try this out.
It's not like anything I've ever read before.
I can’t think of another author that has had their main character act in the way Jorg has.This leads into my second reason for disliking the course of actions of this book.
I like a good anti-hero, I enjoy the show Dexter, and Richard Kadrey writes a mean one with his Sandman Slim series.I like books where the author takes time to build the story so the reader and the character get to know each other and settle their differences.
EDIT: Here is the rape scene that people are saying never happened.(view spoiler)[”Brother Rike does enjoy his simple pleasures,” Makin said.He did.
That shit will just eat you up.And then who's gonna want to adopt you from the shelter?So, Jorg started out an angry 10 year old, and when he finds out the King (who just happens to be his father) won't attack the man responsible for his mother & brother's death, he loses it.
Jorg (naturally) wants to kill him but decides to use him to herald his return back to his kingdom.But not before he stares down an army of the undead, and sends them running for the hills.Yeah, I know!
Here's Cliff Notes to my review: The Blade Itself Lite, with significantly less character development, a typical revenge plot and little redemption.Feels suspiciously like watching a dog-fight video from ASPCA.
I feel like I'm seeing a trend in modern fantasy towards books inspired by that kind of video-game based storyline that focuses on the imagery of violence and quest-driven action with minimal characterization.
Personally, I like my people and worlds more fully developed, but I can see where this book might appeal to that population.
Jorg is seen giving several less-than-stable orders to his men about what exactly they can do about the absence of material wealth, and points them in the way of several farm girls.Cue rape scene.
Which is total bullshit, of course...I just want to ask, why is it whenever producers/directors/writers want to demonstrate “gritty historic realism” it’s ALWAYS RAPE?
Here we have that recurring motif of violence against women, where every girl is either raped or beaten and don't exist in this insipid, too-edgy plot in their own right.
This month I am recommending both PRINCE OF THORNS and KING OF THORNS by Mark Lawrence.
They are two of three, with the third not yet published.
I have read the first and am halfway through the second.
As a fantasy tale, Prince Jorg Ancraft's story is quite extraordinary.
This is a dangerous and risky protagonist for any author to put forth, but Lawrence does it with verve and confidence.
This is a story that you cannot put down.
A hard-edge tale of survival and conquest in a brutal medieval world well told and very compelling, it is different than anything I have ever read.
If I’m reading 50+ pages a day, that is a damn good book.I was immediately pulled into Prince Jorg’s sociopathic little world, fascinated by the flashbacks of his past that hinted at how he became the amoral monster he was.
I think my own books are fairly tame compared to what goes on in the really real world, and yet there are plenty of reviewers who would have you think they are one long rape scene.
Lawrence’s Prince Jorg is one delightfully twisted little bastard.
This doesn’t mean I support his actions at ALL, it’s just that we see tons of people’s head bashed like potato in tons of other books we read and no one bats an eye towards those scenes, apparently one short vague paragraph about rape is worse than people’s head exploding or bodies part being cut off.I must also state that the book really lacking in actions department, there’s tiny bits of action here and there but most of them are forgettable except for maybe one courtly duel scene.In my opinion, Jorg as a character is really unique to read, there’s probably less than 10 POV I know which role-played a sociopath or villain as the main POV and although he started out as a complete villain, by the end of this book he transformed himself to be an anti-hero and I can’t wait to read more about his development.
Pretty much everyone in this book is a damn bastard!
And a big thank you to Mark Lawrence, a cool as hell author who steered me away from things I wouldn't be able to handle.
I mean seeing all of that can scar a mind in ways we don't know for a young kid but damn people.
Anyway, I snuck and read this from the library because it was one I didn't think I would be able to handle for a couple of years now.
Yeah, being excited for a book of bastards is funny as hell 😂🤣.
There is violence and a 14 years old prince with a total lack of conscience.Now, did you ever have a really bad day?
Did you ever want to punch something/someone just to vent your anger?
Good things there's GR, so I posted that I need a book about a broken, angry hero/heroine who sets upon getting their revenge.
Just an angry person who gets their way.
I loved it!Prince Jorg Ancrath was only 10 years old when his uncle had his mother and brother killed.
Because all you want is for Jorg to go berserk.
I had heard so many good things about this book and although I'm not a fan of the gritty dark fantasy I think this was done exceeding well.
Also I don't think a band of surly men would really follow someone of Jorg's age.As the book progressed and it was determined to be a post-apocalyptic earth I found that a bit hard to wrap my head around.
I think this is an exceptional book which I highly recommend to anyone who enjoys dark and gritty fantasy.
✔ Jorg is still my favorite anti-hero of all times : I could say so many things about him without never shedding light on his personality.
I'm going to tell it right away : I loved the guy.
But you know what?♠ If I take an unflinching look at what I feel about him and if I compare with what made me loathe characters that a lot of people loved, I know how I could manage to accept him : That's because he's plain evil and AT NO POINT during the book, someone is telling us that he is good.
I fucking loved this book.
And, considering the realism (and humanism) that characterizes Mark's world (as seen with the moral and theological issues raised, as well as the inner struggles of the characters), that's a story one doesn't usually find in fantasy (or in fiction in general), and surely doesn't simply dismiss.
All in all, i find The Broken Empire to be the greatest fantasy fiction story of the decade, belonging to the top of your TBR list, unless you are one of those little sisses who can't stand the realism on Mark's books.
It's about 14yo Jorg who is (A) a bookworm, (B) a psychopath, and (C) a terrifyingly stabby kid with the emotional empathy of a plastic plate and who genuinely likes to kill things and is on a mission of revenge.
And I've heard people say that Jorg makes Joffery (from GoT) look like a bad tempered kitten.
I DON'T EVEN KNOW WHAT I'M SAYING ANYMORE EITHER.I LIKE A BOOK ABOUT A VILLAIN AND I SHOULD PROBABLY FEEL BAD.Also the writing was freakishly fantastic.
And by "enjoy" I mean it was a good book, not that I am also a psychopathic dark hearted monster who wants to see everyone stabbed.
At points it was like it had been written by a violent child, though as the nature of the protagonist was revealed, I began to see the desired effect behind the prose.
(I, again, almost did) There’s no point trying to read this; he won’t change; he won’t develop: he will simply remain the same psychopath all the way through.
The problem this book has is with Jorg himself.
I don’t hate him, though I simply have no sympathy for him, which, for me, is a major part of reading; thus, this book was missing a vital ingredient.
3.5 STARS ★★★ "Tell me, tutor,' I said. 'Is revenge a science, or an art?”  *I'm going to use Joffrey gifs for this review.* warning this review contains un marked spoilersFirstly I feel I need to clarify my rating because it honestly nearly got 4 stars. But I just couldn't get past the start, I absolutely hated it, I, nearly DNF at 10%. I was really excited to read prince of thorns it had been on my the list for ages, I can remember staring at it and thinking can't wait to read it i do not read
I hope to see more things in the plot next book.[insert smug clapping gif]I'm very impressed that this is a debut novel, the writing is fantastic and the story itself is amazing, it draws the reader in, I think this is a hate it or love it kind of book due to the main character being an anti hero (actually a psychopath teenager with so much anger) It is hard to pull off a character as complex as Jorge but this author on his first attempt got it.
I'd read lots of discussion before actually jumping in and I have a couple things to say about it.1.
The rape at the beginning, while I in no way support this type of behavior, isn't graphic and does a good job showing how depraved these guys actually are.
An intelligent teenager could easily act this way, especially given how Jorg was raised and how he spent all his time during the last 4 years.3.
Prince Jorg watched his mother and brother murdered and will do whatever it takes, and I mean WHATEVER it takes, to make things right.
Jorg makes things happen.
Unlike American Psycho's Patrick Bateman and other fictional psychopaths - we are presented reasons to sympathise with our pal Jorg as an event when he was 10 shocked his very soul and led to his stupidly cool nickname (see the book title) :) This book is shown (like many good debut books I have noticed) in two parts.
A current day presentation of events - Jorg coming back after 4 years on the road of murdering, pillaging, raping and all manner of naughty things but also what happened four years ago following on from the tragic event up to meeting his gang of your road raggamuffins before his 4 years debauchery/discovery started.
Not any that I recall.In Jorg’s defense, his is an esoteric view of reality, which justifies all his moral faults, because his cruelty and heartlessness are merely the true state of man’s nature, not the lies people tells themselves about honor or love or being a “good man.” (Survival of the fittest on steroids, if you will.) No, those antiquated notions of “civilized” people are the lies .
I think it's time to finish this bad boy.    “'Water! Water!' It’s always water with the dying. Strange, it’s killing that gives me a thirst."  Confession time! I am a sucker for anti-heroes, and villains. Good people, most of the time, just annoy me. I've been craving a story with a not-so-good hero, and this seems to be chillin on top of every list i hit. I had to check it out! Downloaded a sample on my Kindle, guess what the first word/line of the book is?!   "Raven! Always the ravens".Any of
I think it's time to finish this bad boy.
“'Water!
Water!' It’s always water with the dying.
Strange, it’s killing that gives me a thirst." 
Confession time!
I am a sucker for anti-heroes, and villains.
Good people, most of the time, just annoy me.
I've been craving a story with a not-so-good hero, and this seems to be chillin on top of every list i hit.
I had to check it out!
Downloaded a sample on my Kindle, guess what the first word/line of the book is?!
But i want a physical copy, for some reason i have hard time concentrating when i read ebooks .
Can I call him “Little Satan”?Before I read this book, I know that I will be led through the journey by very dark character ( that many readers might hate ).
Throw anything at me whatever he wants to do, because I’m ready and curious to know..“From the Royal Child, to the Ruthless Prince of Thorns”I was taken through this vengeful journey by a boy, he is 
That bastard Count Renar he swears to revenge for what that man done!Man, not many books will be led by freakin’ bad character like this!
It’s really interesting to read the character that can sacrifice anything or anyone only for success.
This merry company kills, rapes, burns, and does all kinds of related activities with full Jorg's participation.
Did I mention sometimes the merry band is afraid of Jorg?
Did I mention Jorg is only fourteen?
The shocking part of the book - atrocities committed by 14-year-old - did not work for me.
I suspect I became immune to endless violence in all kinds of media.
There was time when one rape scene was enough for me to throw the book against the wall (Thomas Covenant, always a true gentleman).
Jorg does not feel like 14-year-old.
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/4.5 Stars “War, my friends, is a thing of beauty. Those as says otherwise are losing.”  If George R.R. Martin wrote young adult stories, they’d probably end up a little something like Prince of Thorns. In the first four pages the reader is exposed to raping and pillaging and beheadings . . .  The Prince of Thorns is Prince Jorg – a boy who watched his mother and younger brother get murdered and who was pretty much left for dead by his
If George R.R. Martin wrote young adult stories, they’d probably end up a little something like Prince of Thorns.
Not only was Prince of Thorns filled with characters I should have hated (but of course ended up loving), it was action-packed from the first page to the last and even included a twist that made me all .
(Of course, that’s most likely because I personally think the wonky timeline thing is too overused.)Alright, so there’s my big swoony review.
If you are a freak like Mitchell and myself jump right in.
Nope.I hated the main character from the start.
He is a 14 year old boy leading a gang of ex-convicts.
He is the anti-hero, with the book opening detailing his rape of farmer's daughters, and frequent visualizations of just about every person he meets dying to his blade in their chest or cutting off their head.
Yeah we get it.
You have to be cruel and disgusting to be the leader and you are the young boy that is so "bad" he frightens ghosts....
Riiight.At some point I just stopped caring.
That would have made a much better book.
“You got responsibilities when you’re a leader.
But there are also times that you can’t wait to see Jorg’s foes get theirs and even though it is far more brutal that you thought it would be you smirk that he has found a way to beat his enemies one way or another.This was my first Mark Lawrence book but the writing is really fantastic.
Do you enjoy Grimdark because people die…a lot of people?Can you accept a hero who is clearly not a hero…..ever?Will you accept some crazy magics?Will you let the writing overshadow some of the harshness of the characters?Have you ever loved an antihero enough to be okay with him in the lead role?If you answered yes to as least three of these then you can probably handle Jorg.
DNF at page 200.Is not the violence and the age of the Prince Jorg, but apart from that the book is not tell me anything.....I will give it another try at the insistence of a friend
Like most of the reviewers I'm baffled as to who I could possibly recommend this book to or if I should recommend it.
On the other hand I couldn't put it down.
The writing whispers evil thoughts into your mind.
Your hand itches for steel.
This book will shake a rattle and it is up to you whether you go into the weeds to investigate or if you take the safer path and move away as quickly as possible.
I chose to go into the weeds or should I say the thorns and will again for book two.
"War, my friends, is a thing of beauty."Prince Honorous Jorg Ancrath, heir to the throne of his father's kingdom, was nine years old when the Count of Renar's men ambushed the royal carriage, smashed his little brother's skull against a rock, and proceeded to rape and kill his mother.
This episode is what turned him into the Prince of Thorns, and filled his existence with an insatiable lust for vengeance and violence.Upon his safe return to his father's castle, Jorg discovers that the king of Ancrath intends to take no action against the Count of Renar beyond accepting his ridiculously low indemnity payments for the murder.
