https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/78129.Killing_Floor
This reads like an '80s action movie starring Arnold Schwarzenegger.A big tough ex-military guy drifts into a small town and is sucked into uncovering a vast criminal conspiracy through completely unbelievable coincidences.
- Check.I know this is a really popular series these days, but unless it gets a lot better in later books, I just don't get it.
This might have been a better book if Reacher was just a revenge driven killing machine mowing through the bad guys without the pretense of playing detective.This would have been 1 star, but I gave it an extra star because the main piece of the criminal plot is actually kind of clever and not something I'd read before.
This is not the first Jack Reacher book I have read so I did already knew who Jack Reacher is.
The slight twist on the Jack Reacher character is that he has a Sherlock Holmes type of deductive skills.Despite that fact that Jack does not use any flashy moves, his fighting style is to survive and take out the opponent as efficiently/ruthlessly as possible.
I really do enjoy the way Lee Child (through Jack Reacher's voice) explains the mechanics of the fight, from the best way to strangle someone to the counter.On a whim Jack Reacher visits a sleepy small town, to look into a 63 year old murder.
I could not read this. The prose is terrible. Commas are rare. Periods are abundant. It's hard to read. I got through one chapter. I checked later books. They are the same. I had heard good things. I cannot get past this. I am not exaggerating. It's actually worse than this. These are all sentences. Full sentences. Not fragments. There we go. It's like this. Reading a Reacher novel. I considered powering through. But I don't want to waste my time. I bought the whole series for $1 a piece. I regret it. They're not even worth that much.
At this point, the story takes a dramatic “you must suspend your disbelief” turn when the recent murder ends up having a very personal connection to Reacher.
Game over.THOUGHTS: As you can probably glean from the above, I think Jack Reacher is pretty much THE MAN.
When you add to that my increasingly bromantic bonding to Reacher and his “Billy Jack against the evil townies one man army” show, I was in hardboiled action Gagaville lovin me some story.
And thus….Overall, a great main character and an interesting central story made up for some less than stellar prose and I ended up firmly liking this tale.
Watching the show as a kid, it was almost more than my sugar-fueled addled brain could handle.Reading this book was the same type of existentially empty experience.
The introduction was the highlight of this reading experience.
Sure, but Dickens was his own man, who didn't pander to his audience's fleeting whims.I don’t want to totally dismiss the Reacher series out of hand.
The Almighty Stephen King pimps it on the cover of this edition and I’ve read one other Reacher book and it was fairly entertaining.
Even though I’ve (over)invested 50 cents in two other volumes, it’ll be awhile before I give my time to another book in this series.
While I don't consider myself a violent person, there is something deeply satisfying about reading a book with a kickbutt hero who deals with corrupt persons with no morals and no respect for human life, and deals with them hard like they deserve, but they certainly don't expect.
No, it's just very good wish fulfillment to read books with tough guys like Jack who can and will take care of the bad guys and have you going, "Dang!" What can I say?
A good action / mystery.To be clear, the real success here is that writer Lee Child introduced us to his ultra-cool, badass drifter hero Jack Reacher.
He also has to stay alive and Childs does a damn good job of describing scenes that keep the octane burning and the action coming.
Like Bruce Lee in Enter the Dragon, no one from the academy was paying attention to the wit of the dialogue or the intelligence of the cinematography – you want to see the hero kick ass and that’s what you get.
In fact, as some reviewers have already mentioned, there is a bit of the 80s Action Hero about Jack Reacher.
If he didn’t like it, he shouldn’t have pushed open the damn door.So, Reacher.
Both these schools of thought have merit, so it’s really the plotting that makes or breaks a book like this.I calculated angles and estimated distances.
It was a hell of a problem.I read this on my wife’s recommendation, and I enjoyed it.
Thing is: I enjoy a Cinnamon Bun every once in a while.
He also likes to travel…I wanted the open road and a new place every day.
He has recently been mustered out of the only life he ever knew, the military life He grew up and lived all over the world and when he grew up, he joined up.
Now Jack has been mustered out and is on a mission to see the United States he defended and protected but never knew.
One of the victims turns out to be his brother, Joe. When they were growing up on military bases all over the world, Joe and Jack always had each other's backs.
Virtually non stop action and Jack's the good guy.
4  stars. Rambo, Dirty Harry, with a hint of Sherlock Holmes – fun, exciting, suspense, escape.STORY BRIEF:This is the first book in the Jack Reacher series, sixteen books so far. It’s told in first person by Jack. He was a homicide investigator in the military police for thirteen years, hunting trained killers gone bad. He had to be able to outthink them and fight them. He retired as a major six months ago at age 36. Now Jack just wants to wander, living off his severance pay, buying cheap clot
Rambo, Dirty Harry, with a hint of Sherlock Holmes – fun, exciting, suspense, escape.STORY BRIEF:This is the first book in the Jack Reacher series, sixteen books so far.
He travels by bus and train.Jack gets off the bus and walks into the small town of Margrave, Georgia, out of curiosity about a singer who lived there sixty years ago.
Someone was killed around the time Jack arrived.
But the rest was such a good ride I didn’t mind.Jack did not have a Driver’s License, but he spent a lot of time driving someone else’s car.
Child supposedly has a British background, so maybe superimposing Oxford in his mind unto Harvard explains that piece of bizarreness.) It was also entertaining how even when he had been arrested for murder and was being questioned, Reacher was treating Finley more like a colleague investigating the murder with him than his interrogator.
Some very minor spoilers in this...Okay, I don't get it.There is mass appeal for the Jack Reacher series, there's been a movie made, Lee Child is making a gazillian dollars off it.I also heard a pretty reputable BBC book review panel podcast where they were going absolutely bonkers over the series.Well, I'm at 320 pages and the thought of plowing through 204 more has about as much appeal as chewing toenails.First off, I'm sick of reading about this guy who, as a vagrant, wanders into town, gets arrested on suspicion of murder, is released, and promptly starts banging the hottest chick in town who is also a cop.Then, they discover a very convenient photograph that the dead guy's ex-wife has that shows the guy grinning at the camera, standing next to his delivery truck, with another key element guy conveniently visible in the background (Oh!
A friend had “very highly” recommended Jack Reacher novels to me a long time back.
Like James Bond he can easily attract women.Anyways, something dangerous is afoot in the little town and as the blurbs of thrillers love to say –“the bodies keep piling.” Reacher makes allies in the police force ( he also manages to hit it off with the only female in the force) and is involved in solving the mystery.The novel is pretty fast paced and full of action, suspense and excitement.
But, in the book the police detective trusted Reacher so easily.
How can you possibly put a book down when the main character is arrested for murder in the first chapter?
LOL, I don't know anyone who could.
I liked this!
Written in the first person, I felt like I was seeing everything through Jack's eyes.
That's what I liked about this book.
There was a feel to it.
It may have kept you guessing, but the feel was there just the same.
The characters seemed real, the events outstanding and believable, and even though he doesn't stay in Margrave, I doubt he'll ever forget it.
I have this terrible feeling I'm grabbing the rest of another series, LOL!
I kept hearing about this series, but never started it because I had the impression it was men's fiction, like Rambo or something.
But, I noticed a lot of women were reading it, so I decided to try it.
It was a book everyone would enjoy, not just men.
There's many twist, a lot of action, a little romance.
Reacher was invincible.
Reacher is really "hardboiled ".
I do think I will need to read a couple more of these to really form an opinion about Reacher.
It started to become noticeable, even to me.
I will read the next one though.
After spending much of his life abroad, he's wandering about the country, getting to know the U.S. up close and personal.
He walks fourteen miles into town, orders a cup of coffee in a diner, and is promptly arrested for murder.Reacher knows that he hasn't killed anyone, at least not in Margrave and not for some time, so he's obviously mystified.
Jack Reacher is the mysterious stranger with something approaching mystical powers, who rides into a troubled town, albeit on a Greyhound rather than a horse.
The formula has worked very well through sixteen books now, and Jack Reacher has become an international favorite.
As a fan of the Jack Reacher films starring Tom Cruise, I’ve had my eager eye on this book series for years.
Thankfully, my library app recently went all out and made available all the ebooks and audiobooks in this long-running series.
Never predictable, I enjoyed the plot with all its twists and turns, as well as the full cast of complex characters who were a mix of good and bad and everything in-between.
This initial story did a damn good job of introducing Reacher as a formidable hero.
Beyond all the badassery, Reacher was also a good man, proving honest, intelligent, and amusingly witty at every turn.
Now he says to me, "you'll enjoy these as we both did" meaning him and his wife, which did surprise me as she usually likes less, action-y type books.
The 3 carrier bags full did not help he he.Ok i shall have to read this soon--------------------------------------------------------------So I have now finished the book, and it was quite good, I enjoyed it .
Yes it was action-y and quite macho but it was well written and better than most books of this type.
Given that I have a huge pile of Jack Reacher novels I shall certainly be reading more, just need to fit them in around other books.
Third time is not the charm.
I tried reading the ebook twice and put it down both times because I didn't like the writing.
Figured I'd try the audiobook, because some styles work better in audio.
That was not the case here.Jack Reacher, starring Our Lord and Savior Tom Cruise, is the only Cruise movie in which I can stomach Cruise.
In summation: Child might be a fellow pantser, but it doesn't show in his writing.
This thing reads like the worst kind of formulaic thriller.
DNF.Final Judgment: Suffers from a rare case of The Movie Was Better.
Killing Floor is a good mystery-suspense book with lots of action and many twists and turns.
The thing I liked most about this book was that there were plenty of fight scenes, which made my heart jump and my adrenaline pump.
But there were some unrealistic things in the story that made me feel like I was having a very big question mark on my forehead all the time while reading this.
“We could have gotten a few answers.”She looked at me like I was crazy.
Hmm…By the way, if you’re looking for a good and action-packed mystery-suspense story with great characters, try this one.
The same shows in which police torture and trick suspects with no regard for the evidentiary value of the information obtained, and car chases and explosions are the order of the day.
Reacher is a Military Police Major who retires to a life of vagrancy after 13 years on the job.
If Reacher had been a drummed-out Sergeant, he would have been more believable.Child basically asks the reader to suspend all common sense and accept on faith that modern police officers would share information with a vagrant recently arrested on suspicion of murder.
The opening chapter is a master class in building tension using detail and perspective--when the police storm into a small-town diner, our main character, Jack Reacher, deduces that they must be coming for him, but he's cool and collected as he catalogs their mistakes and all the moments he might have taken advantage of them.
In less graceful hands this might have devolved into pointless violence, but Lee Child is as controlled as Reacher, letting the tension slowly build at the same time as our mysterious main character comes into focus.
For me, this is the best of the Reacher series.
Meet Jack Reacher, a loner with no ties. He drifts from place to place whilst inevitably finding trouble.He arrives in a small town in Georgia and within the hour he’s arrested for murder.Reacher is a fascinating character. Having recently been released from the military, he’s roaming without a purpose.It’s a great action packed mystery that instantly hooked me straight away.If people are interested in this series, it’s the best place to start. The first book perfectly encapsulates what the whole series is about!
Working with the local authorities, Reacher discovers the corruption holds a personal connection that only fuels his desire to find out those involved.
A stellar opening to the Reacher series that paves the way for what should be a great series.With little background knowledge of the famed Reacher, I was curious to see how this man would present himself in full-length novels.
Also, with Dick Hill at the narration helm, I was left to wonder if I was reading a Stephen White novel at times, with wonderfully detailed reflective narration.Kudos, Mr. Child for such a great opening book.
Jack Reacher, the ultimate man’s man, leads the charge.
He carries nothing but the clothes on his back, a wad of cash, and a toothbrush jammed in his pocket.
After use, he tosses his clothes in the trash, and visits the local thrift store.
Revenge is a dish best served cold, and Jack Reacher is one stone cold piece of mastery.
It’s MANfiction at its finest, and it reaches the ultimate crescendo with more brilliance than a five figure Fourth of July fireworks display.
Το ευχαριστήθηκα, όπως και κάθε άλλο που έχω διαβάσει με πρωταγωνιστή τον Τζακ Ρίτσερ.Είναι ό,τι πρέπει για να το διαβάσει κανείς μετά από ένα ''βαρύ'' βιβλίο. Συχνή δράση, βγαλμένη από ταινίες, (ξύλο, πιστολίδι κ.λπ.), αλλά δίχως να υποτιμάται η λογική του αναγνώστη. Ο συγγραφέας γράφει εξαιρετικά και έτσι το διασφαλίζει εύκολα αυτό. Εξάλλου, πέρα της δράσης, υπάρχει και μια πληρέστατη και πολύ ωραία ιστορία εδώ πέρα.Μικρή παραφωνία, μικροσκοπική θα έλεγα, είναι ένας-δύο παραγωγικοί συλλογισμοί που κάνει ο Τζακ για να διαπιστώσει κάποια (δευτερεύοντα ευτυχώς) πράγματα. Νομίζω ότι είναι πολύ τραβηγμένοι.
Maybe I'd like it better as an audio book or now.I didn't.
He writes like his readers are idiots & can't keep a point in mind for a few paragraphs.
To save time & effort, I would have ordered boxes just a hair bigger & not bothered unboxing the money at all since it was just being transferred.What was the sudden rush to transport the money & why was the Coast Guard thing such a big shock?
They couldn't figure out any other way to transport it after the Coast Guard clamped down?
I expected Child to & believe the story would have been much better served by killing Roscoe off at the end.
(hide spoiler)]There were some good points in the book.
The main character, Jack Reacher, clearly has a fan base and enough popular support to spawn a couple of movies with A list actor Tom Cruise so I thought what the heck.Overall, it felt like a 80s action movie.
This definitely had a plot that felt like I had seen it before and stock stereotype characters that have been done and redone.
That being said, it was interesting reading that did not make me think too hard or keep track of intricate plotlines that vanish before my eyes if I skim a paragraph.
It serves as a nice foil for some of the heavier and deep thinking reading I am prone to get myself into.
The story reminds me a little bit of the macho deeds of Mitch Rapp, Jason Bourne, but with a vigilante slant like Death Threat where the bad guys are so bad, we give our hero the license to kill.
He doesn't just kill, either.
I think I may enjoy these stories in the movie with Tom Cruise (not a good choice to play Jack Reacher) more than reading the book.
I love the satisfaction of revenge in these stories, but honestly, it was so much so, that it was over the top for me.....still somewhat satisfying, though.
It has an interesting plot (a real page-turner), I read it in a single sitting.
it is poorly written with short, choppy, repetitive sentences that go nowhere.
Characters are not consistent, nor realistic.
Jack Reacher ( "a man who always wins") is represented as a weird person that can barely string enough words together in his head to form a sentence, let alone hold a conversation with another characters.The story was extremely drawn out, probably about 200 pages longer than needed and the twists are really predictable.All in all, it's a great idea, but very poorly executed.I hope the next books will be better.
