https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/785371.Lady_into_Fox
It was written by David Garnett, part of the Bloomsbury scene as a result of his affair with Duncan Grant.
One day whilst walking in the woods Mrs Tebricks turns into a fox.
Initially little changes, his wife eats the same things, plays cards; he dresses her in altered clothes and it’s all very odd.
He finds a new lease of life playing with the cubs for some months; despite inevitable jealousy about his wife having found a dog fox.
It may, of course, also be reflection on Garnett’s relationship with Duncan Grant.
I felt as though he knew women.
Not only was he describing every relationship I have ever had with men but he knew what it felt like to be me in those relationships.
That damn damn ending that turned it all around and made me realize that not only did he NOT understand women but his view of gender roles was so opposite of my own and societies that it left me feeling like I wanted to bring Mr. Garnett back from the dead and teach him a thing or two about gender roles and social mores.
His vixen had at once sprung into Mr Tebrick’s arms, and before he could turn back the hounds were upon them, and had pulled them down. Then at that moment there was a scream of despair heard by all the field that had come up, which they declared afterwards was more like a woman’s voice than a man’s. But there was no clear proof whether it was Mr Tebrick or his wife who had suddenly regained her voice. When the huntsman who had leapt the wall got to them and had whipped off the hounds, Mr Tebri
It is dedicated to David Garnett’s former lover Duncan Grant who had shared a house with Vanessa Bell for many years, in fact until her death.
The fact that Bunny married Angelia when he prophesized many years before that he would marry her at twenty rather unnerved me, I must confess.As for the book I believe it is a tribute not only to Duncan but also to Bunny’s life with Vanessa, and latterly Angelica.The plot - Richard Tebrick had married Silvia (née Fox – bizarre) in 1879.
Put bluntly, it’s about an English gentleman whose wife one day turns into a fox, and the difficulties that are posed by this unexpected turn of events.That’s a potentially rich – incredibly rich – scenario for a story, and there were many ways the story could have gone.
His style is casual, in the formal manner in which an English gentleman of the era might be casual, and despite the strikingly modern moment of surrealism at the story’s core (Lady into Fox was published only a few years after Kafka’s “The Metamorphosis” was published, and long before it became famous), his approach is largely conservative.
Garnett's book conjures old-style fairy tales or bedtime stories, where simple elements resonate, and even the inevitable outcome is also a little confounding, a little mysterious.Short version, 1922, English dude's wife turns into a fox one day, flips him right out.
But as with everything else in life as we know it, little things accompany big things, night follows day, and no crying over spilled milk.
One night long into the predicament of his wife having changed, the narrator dreams that she is a human woman once again.
His wife was with him in her own proper shape, walking as they had been on that fatal day before her transformation.
Magical and sad. Great wood-cuts illustrate the story throughout. Yay foxes!!
(3.5) I accidentally did things the wrong way round: a few months back I read Sarah Hall’s Madame Zero, which includes the BBC National Short Story Prize 2013 winner “Mrs Fox,” clearly modeled on Garnett’s half-charming, half-horrible fable.
In both, an upper-middle-class marriage is derailed when the wife turns into a fox.
Before long she’s effectively a wild creature, though she still shows affection to Tebrick when he comes to visit her den.Anyone in a partnership will experience a bittersweet sense of recognition at how Tebrick and Silvia try to accommodate each other’s differences and make compromises to maintain a relationship in defiance of the world’s disapproval and danger.
David Garnett: Picture this, a lady... turns into a fox! Isn't that the wildest thing you've ever read?!Me: *having read his bio and knowing he was sleeping with a married man, decided to be present at the birth of that man's daughter, jokingly wrote to a friend, "I think of marrying it. When she is 20, I shall be 46 – will it be scandalous?", and later on actually married her*: Not really...
מקסים, עצוב, מעורר מחשבה.
Een sprookje, een liefdesgeschiedenis, een psychologisch verhaal? Misschien wel alledrie. Het is in ieder geval een boek van bijna 100 jaar oud dat mij weet te boeien en aanzet tot nadenken.
הבעל,ריצרד, שאוהב את אישתו עד אין קץ, מקבל את הטרנספורמציה ולא משחרר את אישתו, מחזיק בה ומאבד את שפיותו עד הסוף הטראגי של הסיפור.באחרית הדבר לספר מאת פליסיה שרון, כותבת האחרונה כי הספר הוא משל למערכת היחסים של הזוג בהם האישה בוגדת בבעלה ונוטשת אותו למען גבר אחר עימו היא מביאה ילדים.
אישית אני פירשתי את הספר כסיפור אובדן שפיותו של מר טבריק עקב עזיבתה של אישתו.
הוא ממציא לו אישה בדיונית שהפכה לאישה ומשקיע בה את חייו ומאוויוו עד שהוא מתרחק מבני אדם ומאבד את שפיותו.בהזיותיו הוא מהלך על הגבול שבין בדיה למציאות ומנסה להשלים עם המציאות שנכפתה עליו.
Het is de verdienste van dit boekje om de lezer geen pasklaar antwoord te geven op de vraag waarom Sylvia in een vos verandert. Je kan hierover blijven nadenken en blijven analyseren. Toch ook mooi hoe Garnett op een originele manier verhaalt hoe volhardend de liefde kan zijn. 'Vrouw of vos' is niet echt mijn genre maar wel vlot geschreven en leuk om te lezen.
A lovely set of symbols that is perhaps best enjoyed at face-value.There's a certain elusive quality here which manages to pull the reader in many directions in turn: wonder, tragedy, farce, tedium, contentment. Also a testament that great books, having been unjustly buried, are still able to enthrall new generations of readers. I read the McSweeney's edition edited by Paul Collins and was pleased to find that another publisher has more recently chosen to reprint this one. (The more recent cover art is viewable at Vulpes Libris).
"Here we have something very different. A grown lady is changed straightway into a fox. There is no explaining that away by natural philosophy. The materialism of our age will not help us here."
Er worden tegenwoordig meer vergeten boeken (her)ontdekt dan er schatten op oude zolders worden aangetroffen, maar ook bij het in 1922 geschreven Lady into fox is de vondst goud waard. Tijdens een wandeling met haar echtgenoot verandert een vrouw abrupt in een vos. Wat volgt is een betoverende parabel waarin een harmonisch natuurbeeld, de hardnekkigheid van ware liefde en het overlappende grensgebied tussen gedeelde innigheid en individuele vrijheid op tedere, nooit melige wijze wordt verbeeld. Reinaert krijgt concurrentie.
David Garnett's debut novel about a woman who turns into a fox and her husband's troubles in dealing with her transformation. The dialogue that the husband has about how to deal with this is meant to mirror that of the people dealing with loved ones who were traumatized and changed by WWII.
short novella about a woman who turns into a fox, and her husband's attempts to keep her safe (he shoots dogs and buries them, chases after foxhunts etc.) and treat her like his wife as far as he can (dresses her at first for example, buys her grapes), but nature takes over. Well written, to the point, very nice woodcut illustrations. Odd, memorable.
2.5 stars.
Así pues, cuanta más angustia padecía el zorro, más esperanzas albergaba él, hasta que, debatiéndose entre el amor y la compasión, casi llegó a desear que siguiera siendo sólo un zorro para que no tuviera que sufrir tanto por ser medio humana“.“La Dama Que Se Transformó En Zorro” puede que no sea más que un pequeño gran cuento, puede que no tenga vocación de novela para pasar a la historia, aunque en su interior alberga una parábola que deja al descubierto uno de los momentos más dolorosos por los que puede pasar una historia de amor… Pero esta maestría de la forma justa y comprimida que encapsule un fondo palpitante, vibrante, subyugante, es algo que cuesta encontrar en la literatura actual.
She can't speak, but she is still sentient, still modest (she insists on wearing clothes), still pious (she makes the sign of the cross with her paws to remind her husband it's time for prayers, but she's not *Catholic* because she disapproves of playing cards on the Sabbath), and still refined and cultured (her husband plays classical music on the piano and reads books to her).The next couple of chapters go into great detail about Sylvia's husband taking care of his fox wife.
I've seen it in books from the early 1800s, none of which actually have anything to do with Asia or the Middle East.)But eventually, dear Sylvia the fox-wife starts going feral.
As she changes her husband remains devoted to her, but he is always trying to get her to behave, act more like a lady, and remain within his safely set boundaries.
That even though the woman's husband loved her, in trying to protect and shelter her he quickened her demise?
Or is it simply an end to a story, with no inherent meaning other than to move the plot along...
Take the book, my friend, and read your eyes out, you will never find there what I find."
There are very few true "classics!" of the genre that I haven't read, actually, so opening up one is always a bit of a treat, even if it doesn't really work out for me, as in this case.
Usually this sort of wry fable is one of my favorites and, as much of my reading is usually from this period (1920s) the style of writing (slow, meandering) usually doesn't bother me - I often enjoy that sort of thing.
It is, perhaps, easy to see  Lady into Fox  simply as a modern day fairytale. A whimsical fantasy from the early twentieth century. To do so though, would be to ignore the praise and attention that the tale won on its publication and since. A simple fairytale, surely, would not win the James Tait Black Memorial Prize. In fact, David Garnett uses humour, fantasy, allegory and realism to explore pain, passion, conjugal fidelity, love, death and, as Douglas Adams once famously wrote, 'everything'.
A whimsical fantasy from the early twentieth century.
A simple fairytale, surely, would not win the James Tait Black Memorial Prize.
In fact, David Garnett uses humour, fantasy, allegory and realism to explore pain, passion, conjugal fidelity, love, death and, as Douglas Adams once famously wrote, 'everything'.
No small achievement in a novella of fewer than one hundred pages.Beautifully illustrated with woodcuts, Virginia Woolf's nephew charts the experiences and emotions of a man whose wife is not lost but changed, both suddenly and gradually.
Those experiences are harrowing and the story is by no means a cheery one.
Deceptively simple, beautiful. I didn't realize how much it affected me until I told my spouse the plot and started crying. Found this in one of the many wonderful bookshops in St. Andrews. I'm trying to think of a way to put this on a syllabus soon. It could pair well Ovid's _Metamorphosis_ or Swift's _Gulliver's Travels_ with Coetzee's _Lives of Animals_. NB: I read the Hesperus edition with John Burnside's forward, which has a much prettier cover than what I'm seeing now on Goodreads.
David Garnett’s 1922 novella is modern folktale, rich in sentiment and in prose style, and always highly readable. This is a strange but simple-told story about a newly married man whose wife suddenly and inexplicable transforms into a fox, and about the long period of heartbreak he experiences in accepting this change and giving her up to the wild. It is a surprisingly touching story and a fine book for reading aloud.
Published in 1922, Lady into Fox feels like a parable or fairy tale, and not a Disney-fied fairy tale but a traditional fairy tale, where gruesome things happen and peril is real.
But the more of a fox she becomes internally, the more oppressive this protection is for Silvia Tebrick, finally culminating in her escape from her former home and into the countryside, where Mr. Tebrick must reinvent (or choose not to reinvent) his relationship with her as a wild creature.We follow Mr. Tebrick’s grief and soul-searching as he struggles to accept (or to not accept) each new change affecting his wife.
In Vrouw of vos van David Garnett verandert mevrouw Tebrick plotseling in een vos.
Wat kan meneer Tebrick anders doen dan er bij staan, kijken en haar blijven liefhebben - tot gekmakends toe.Een volwassen vrouw is een vos geworden.
Zijn liefde lijkt alles overstijgend, de roddels, het verdriet.
Even oprecht is echtgenote Silvia of de vos in haar gedaante: onbekommerd maar ook onbetrouwbaar.Deze subtiele novelle verscheen bijna een eeuw geleden voor het eerst.
Wat een ontdekking!Iwan Droog vertaalde Garnetts debuut uit 1922 en hij voorzag het sieraad van een verhelderend nawoord.
Staat Garnetts vos symbool voor ‘de sluwheid van de vrouw’?
Verder staat het vol met zinnen als 'er rolden brandende tranen over zijn wangen', 'zijn hart was vol berouw' en 'hij werd verscheurd door twee gedachten'.
En zo voelde het hele boek wel een beetje: het maakt me allemaal niet uit, het doet niet zoveel met me.Wat ik wel mooi vond (ondanks de zoveelste huilbui): 'Hij stond op het punt zijn geweer te halen om zichzelf en zijn vos dood te schieten, maar zijn verdriet was zo extreem dat het in deze situatie zijn redding betekende: hij kon niets dan huilen, zo volslagen moedeloos was hij, en hij liet zich in een stoel vallen, zijn hoofd in zijn handen, en bleef zo zitten, huilend en kermend.'Maar ja, daar red je een boek niet mee.
Het voelde als een geforceerde parabel, zonder een sterke stijl en zonder sprekende personages.
Dit boek heeft me van begin tot eind ontroerd. Vrouw of vos is een tragisch en magisch liefdesverhaal, dat direct start met een metamorfose waarbij Silvia Fox, de vrouw van meneer Tebrick, verandert in een vos. Deze metamorfose laat zich op meerdere manieren interpreteren, waardoor je lang over dit boek na kan blijven denken. De beschrijvingen van de relatie tussen mens en dier, mens en vos in dit geval, zijn werkelijk prachtig en ontroerend. De vertaling verdient ook zeker een groot compliment en het nawoord van vertaler Irwan Droog is van grote toegevoegde waarde; ontdek het zelf!
This is an extraordinary book written in 1922. It is a very short novel but unlike anything else I've ever read. It's about a happily married young couple who only disagree about one thing, fox hunting. One day the wife refuses to get involved any further, she sits down - and turns into a fox. What happens next is heart-warming, ridiculous, sad, crazy, improbable and - eventually - startling. It won't take you long to read.
