https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1394199.Growing_Up_in_New_Guinea
Published in 1930, this is an ethnography of the Manus people of Papua New Guinea from one of Margaret Mead's first research trips in the 1920s, after writing Coming of Age in Samoa: A Psychological Study of Primitive Youth for Western Civilisation.
After studying the adolescents of one culture, she wanted to focus more narrowly on children in a society - how they are educated, how they develop personality, how the beliefs and customs of the society effect them before puberty.The Manus people live on one of the Admiralty Islands, north of the larger island of New Guinea.
I am probably not the person to review this- I thought it was really dry and repetitive
I read this at University many years ago.
At this point in time, New Guinea was a society of trade.
Even first marriages were trades between tribes.
Their society stressed truth, and nothing but the truth -- no embellishments, no metaphors, no similes.
Because of this, the children were not imaginative.
Mead saw that nurture was much more important than nature within this culture.
Adoptive children would take on the traits of their adoptive parents rather than their biological parents, even if they were adolescents when adopted.As an aside, Mead said something that my mother used to tell us: "Time turns most of us into caricatures of our early selves."
I first read Margaret Mead in high school and it opened up me eyes to the world of anthropology. She is a great role model for women and her books are a must read for anyone interested in the topic.
This book, and "Coming of Age in Samoa", were startling finds on my parents' bookshelves during my pre-teen years, and started me on my journey towards a degree in anthropology.
This book was interesting as both an ethnography about Manus as well as being a kind of historical record as an "old school" kind of ethnography.
1975 paperback edition with a new introduction by Margaret Mead. This was her second book.
