https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/354666.The_Mystery_of_Angelina_Frood
Serves me right to be patronizing about an author I've never read before. I was somewhat exasperated by the slow pace and Victorianisms of the story. And I figured the solution out very early on. But I hadn't! I actually yelped in surprise when...but you'll see.It is slow paced and outdated (need we review the basics of fingerprinting?), but sharper than I gave it credit for. What kind of a name is "Frood"? And Sgt. Cobbledick? Really?
This is an interesting one, and I recommend it if you like this sort of thing. Thorndyke is involved in the solution, in a kind of phoning it in way, but the other characters are strong enough to be interesting [all by their own selves!] and the ending is a bit of a surprise. You know where it's going pretty early on but where it gets to is a surprise.
Angelina Frood has gone missing and her new friend Dr. Strangeways, the narrator of the story, is determined to find out what has happened and along the way enlists the assistance of Dr. Thorndyke.
The local police Sergeant is hot on the trail, as items of clothing and jewellery belonging to Angelina are discovered.
Not everything is as it seems as Thorndyke sifts through the evidence to arrive at the conclusion.The writing style is that of the 1920's when this novel was first published and is tight and over elaborate by today's style but I enjoy this but others may not.
Hmmmm , not up to standard.I'm a big fan of the Dr. Thorndyke series and wondered why this particular book wasn't included in the many Freeman anthologies. It's because this book is undoubtedly the weakest of them all. The story dragged on so slowly that I skipped to the end, only to find a perfectly idiotic resolution to the mystery. I won't include a spoiler here but the solution had the characters acting like morons
A nice period mystery with a surprise ending. Did NOT see it coming.
A little different than the standard Dr Thorndyke mystery, as the narrator here sends dispatches to Thorndyke and we don't get any of his hints until close to the end.
Every novel has a twist, and each novel deploys said twist at different times, though all within sight of the end of the book.
This novel deployed it very near to the end, almost like in "Helen Vardon's Confession." However, where the Helen Vardon novel failed beyond atrocity, this novel put the twist in with time to spare and was not nearly as irritating for doing so.
It simply made things more amusing and provided the happily-ever-after that looked impossible.
(But of course you should expect as much when the detective is Thorndyke; his whole purpose is solving and explaining the impossible.)
A superb mystery nicely told. The reader is treated fairly, all the characters are intelligent and the narrative takes the reader purposely by the nose up Black Boy-lane. And justice there is in the last sentence of the book.
Not enough Thorndyke, nowhere near enough Polton, and enough loose ends (Japp, mainly....) to hang someone, but any book whose denouement makes me go back and skim-read the whole thing must be top-rate.
read some time in 1996
This is very hard to review without giving everything away, so I will say it is very surprising, and I'm not quite sure it's actually believable.
Now this is what I call a classic mystery! Recommended!
Although I am normally a big fan of Thorndyke, I found this one improbable and unsatisfactory. I can't say why without divulging the entire plot. It was also far too long.
