https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/298567.Revenge_of_the_Witch
It seems to me the US writers and publishers are busy writing and publishing angst romance novel calling them young adult (YA) literature to the point where it is impossible to find any non-romance centered YA book.
For the good example of YA without too much romance look no further than Harry Potter.
Why oh why do US publishers consider changing the titles of the books published in GB to be their first and foremost duty?
We were lucky with Harry Potter as only the first book suffered this fate, but in case of this series I think all the titles were butchered.
The fact that I did not convulse while reading the book doesn't mean I loved it.
Okay, to be honestly honest, I didn't, you know, NOT love the book and stuff.
Which means, you know, that I'm still me and stuff.
'Warning: Not to be Read after Dark' This is written on the back of the book.
Cause for a children's/ya book, this one is freaking scary.From the beginning this book grabbed my attention, and it held it all the way to the end.
I liked the characters, especially Tom and Alice.
I loved how Tom grew throughout this book, and I enjoyed reading about his journey.
I also really liked where the story went, and there were even some plot twists that I didn't see coming.Amazing start of the series, and hopefully I'll get my hands on the second one, cause I'm dying to know what'll happen next.
Excellent!I have a very, very good feeling about the rest of the books in the Wardstone Chronicles after completing this book (it's called Revenge of the Witch in the US)...
Ward, the seventh son of a seventh son (hey Angie Sage--that's like your story!) who becomes the apprentice of the County's Spook (hold your horses - fellow Americans!
- With that in mind, I do want to make a declaration: I READ THIS BOOK AFTER DARK!
There are parts that read like a good'ol fashion ghost story.
It all seems reasonable within the story, and if it didnt bother an ultra-sensitive person like me, it probably won't bother you, either.
Even still, you won't hear someone yelling 'boo.' Instead the moment of dread will come and you will think, whoa, "I'm glad I'm not in Tom's shoes right now." I do love stories where a character comes into their destiny, and this is one of them.
He risked his life to do the right thing, and that was very admirable to me.There are questions that I would still like answers to, but reading the next books in the series, will definitely give insight into the enigmatic Spook, and Tom's mother, who has gifts that are still somewhat mysterious at this point.If you want to read a young adult book that has the appeal of giving a good, sustained scare instead of a series of shock value, short-lived scares, I think you would enjoy this one.
Intensely scary. There was a time or two I raced up the stairs to jump into the safety of my bed after listening to this book. Thank goodness I'm left-handed which, according to the book, gives me a slight advantage over anything creepy that goes bump in the night. One star had to go for things like coffin maggots and carnivorous hogs--gross!Of the books I have recently listened to on CD this one has the best narration by far. It is excellent.
Pomalo mi je krivo zbog toga jer je ovo jedna od boljih knjiga za mlade koju sam pročitala u poslednjih nekoliko godina.Pre svega, otvara nam se novi svet u kojem postoje raznolika bića za koje smo delimično čuli: veštice, bukavci, duhovi, a tu su i različite biljke koje je potrebno izučavati u okviru botanike i mnogo toga drugog.
Kao važna lekcija izdvaja se poverenje, pre svega u sebe, a potom i u druge.
Zbog toga su mi najdragoceniji bili razgovori koje je Tomi vodio sa svojom majkom, uz njenu konstataciju da niko ne može biti usamljen jer uvek imamo sami sebe.
Bah!, nada nuevo ni especialmente bien contado. Brujas secuestraniños y un aprendiz de brujo ( en terminología Sapkovskiana) que aquí llaman Espectro. Lo dicho, prescindible. Tres estrellas porque al menos me lo he acabado. ¡Anda, si hay peli del libro! Pues para la famosa madre del topo.
But all that said, there is a film adaptation on the way, along with the final book and the series constantly has heroes which are good despite certain compromises.In fact, it is the battle between what is 'good' and 'evil' (characterised by Light and Dark) which drives the entire series.
At times compromises are made for the good of the world in which the series is set and at times evil seems to win out with good finally triumphing at a cost.
In short it is a wonderfully written series of stories.Fully recommended for those looking for the next Young Adult series that they haven't read yet.
This was pretty good! I enjoyed it. It wasn't much and it wasn't complicated but I liked this as a simple middle grade fantasy series. I don't have a lot to say about it, but I will likely continue with the series!
چه کتاب بدی؛ چه ترجمهی بدی. چقدر خوشحالم جلدهای بعدی را نخریدم.
چه کتاب بدی؛ چه ترجمه‌ی بدی. چقدر خوشحالم جلدهای بعدی را نخریدم.
I liked this book overall, certainly far better than the movie based on it!A little slow-paced initally, but very moody and evocative, and certainly seems to set the stage for some plot threads to be followed up in further books.3.5 stars(Rounded up to 4.)
Ο μαθητευόμενος του Σπουκ είναι ένα καλό παραδοσιακό βιβλίο φαντασίας, σε μερικές στιγμές του λίγο πιο σκοτεινό και για αυτό το λόγο παρότι ακολουθεί τη πεπατημένη, είναι ακατάλληλο για τις πιο μικρές ηλικίες αναγνωστών. Όμως στάθηκε αδύνατον να μην το αγαπήσω ιδιαίτερα, διότι ναι αγαπώ τις πολυτελείς βιβλιοδεσίες. Το παραδέχομαι. Το διάβασα πολύ πιο ευχάριστα μόνο και μόνο γιατί άγγιζα τη σκληρόδετη έκδοση και ξεφύλλιζα τα σκιτσάκια στην αρχή κάθε κεφαλαίου. Τι να πω; Είμαι κακομαθημένη αναγνώστρια…μακάρι όλα τα βιβλία να είχαν τόσο πολυτελείς βιβλιοδεσίες. Εννοείται θα διαβάσω και τα επόμενα.
Simpatična priča predominantno YA žanra, no lako je mentalno se vratiti u te godine obzirom na izuzetno lagan, pitak stil pisanja. Kome treba psihičko opuštanje - topla preporuka!
It does a good job of watering these parts down, but they are still there, I would not recommend it for it's target audience, and it definitely would not be night time reading for that age unless you wanted to encourage nightmares.
I think it would be fine for teenagers, though they would NOT find the writing style challenging enough.
I think it is definitely darker than the early Harry Potter books, and I am also not a particular fan of those for the target audience.
Vraiment très sympa ! C'est jeunesse, mais certains moments font frissonner, et l'univers en général est très intéressant, avec diverses créatures maléfiques, et une ambiance qui s'assombrit... Je lirai avec plaisir la suite à l'occasion !Mention spéciale pour les petits bonus de mon édition: une carte, une présentation des personnages, des pages du carnet de Tom...
I wanted to say all that as some might wonder why I'd rate a book 4 stars and then spend a lot of time on it's failings.
Well, it's because a lot of what "I" found wanting here "may" be because I am an adult and have read literally thousands of books.
I'd say these and any other "drawbacks" could be handled by a parent/guardian/responsible adult who loves the young person in question reading the book either with or before the youth and being ready to explain, discuss and otherwise guide the said youth.
It's well written and well told just be aware and tailor the reading to the young person.
2.5 starsI read this in the hopes it would be something my son might want to read.
I'm thinking this wouldn't really be his thing, though.
Yeah...I'm probably not going to be passing this one on to him.Anyhoo, this would probably work for a kid who is looking for a spooky series, and doesn't mind the above mentioned things.
Depending on your kid, this could either be too scary or not scary enough.
For my son it wouldn't be a problem, but I think it's probably wise for parents to preview it first...'cause nobody likes those midnight 'Can I sleep with you?' moments.
ספר פנטזיה משובח, ממתק לחובבי הארי פוטר ודומיו. קראתי הכי לאט שיכולתי כדי שלא יגמר ונהניתי מכל רגע.ישנה טענה בגנות השוביניזם הבוטה של "הצל", אחת משתי הדמויות הראשיות בספר, אך עד כמה שהעניין צורם, מדובר בשיקוף של הדמות הספציפית, ולא כתפיסת עולם המאפיינת את הספר.מצער מאד שיתר ספרי הסדרה לא תורגמו לעברית.שוליית הצל/ג'וזף דילייני
Bring on The Dark is Rising!) and I loved the whole idea of a Spook!
I wanted to know more about the Spook though.
He seemed like a really flat character since he barely spent any time training Tom. He just kind of left Tom here to face this, or "go take this there, Tom, try not to die" or "I'm leaving for a week"...
I loved the mesh of "what is really evil" and "you can choose to be good or bad".
I want to know more and hopefully I won't be doused with too much more dry writing and flat characters.
Spook’s is such a quaint English tale that it almost disarms you when the real horror begins. Spook’s Apprentice is was a YA debut novel by Joseph Delaney, so I’ll be find *crosses heart*. Spook’s is one of those a-typical British fantasy novels, where it takes a lot of influences through the English countryside and English mannerisms (J R R Tolken, C S Lewis etc). It reminded me of sitting in front of the TV when I was 10, watching The Lion, The Witch and The Wardrobe being scared half to deat
Spook’s Apprentice is was a YA debut novel by Joseph Delaney, so I’ll be find *crosses heart*.
Like a natural remedy your mum or nan might have given you when you were a kid (for example – thyme has natural antibiotic/septic in it, Lemon for stings and some burns etc).Before we begin properly, there are some things you need to know.
The tale really begins to take a darker turn once Alice, Bony Lizzie and Old Mother Malkin, all witches of varied sorts – it’s like a pick-a-mix of witches here.
It was all Tom’s fault, see he did something behind the Spook’s back, he made a promise to a witch and was bound to follow through with it.
Thomas Ward comes from a long line of apprentices that eventually become Spooks who are known to be protectors of all things evil.
He is the seventh son of a seventh son and when a Spook comes to his village seeking him out, he ends up going on a long and adventurous journey into the wilds to learn the tricks of the trade.
Ghost, witches, boggarts abound in this book and Thomas slowly learns how to deal with them.
All the characters in the book became vivid to me as it just grabbed me and pulled me into this fantasy, supernatural world.
Σε αυτό το βιβλίο πίστευα πως θα διάβαζα άλλη μια ιστορία για μάγους και μαθητευόμενους. Κι όμως ξεχωρίζει αρκετά απο τα υπόλοιπα τέτοιου είδους που κυκλοφορούν. Οι σκοτεινές εικόνες που σου μεταφέρει ανά σελίδα του σε εξιτάρουν και προσωπικά το ευχαριστήθηκα αρκετά.
This “young adult” book actually offers more chills and thrills than adult horror books I have read.
There were moments that actually made me have that feeling we all know of when we are watching a horror movie and we want to cover our eyes.
And many times it is what we hear but don't see that makes us want to hide under the covers.Something this book did very well.Recommended to children who are not easily frightened.
(hide spoiler)]I also recommend it to those parents and older siblings themselves.
So the other day I was bored (common occurrence with me) and plucked the movie "Seventh Son" off the library shelf even though most of the reviews said it was rubbish, and two hours later I thought, "Eh, that wasn't too bad, bet the book is better."Imagine my surprise when the movie is almost nothing like the book...
Only I don't leave a silver slimy trail in my wake.Excuse me, I need to go pout because Hollywood gypped me out of seeing a courageous twelve year old in super creepy circumstances deal with a witch of unknown age and the ginger cat whose yowl stopped evil forces dead at the gate because YOU WILL DIE.
Plot: A young boy apprentices to the Spook and learns to defend the County and combat the growing threat from the witches.Good: interesting plot, good illustrationsBad: no character depthI have decided to give this book a shot because it is being adapted into a major film.
It had an interesting plot, but the characters were under-developed.
The book felt more like a summary than a heartfelt story.
I think you would like the book for the adventure alone.
The plot was interesting enough that I will be reading the next book in the series.

Neat world building.
I like how Delaney draws from Medieval ideas about witches, while still having a lot of elements that strike me as being rather original.
The witches are really quite dangerous, and the options for dealing with them are very limited.
Adds a nice bit of tension.
For somebody training to be what is essentially an exorcist, he's horribly lacking in genre savvy.
I mean, if somebody asks you to give a imprisoned witch something at midnight every night for three nights running, but you aren't allowed to see what you're giving the witch, would you do it?

