https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/67657.The_Lady_Sons_Savannah_Country_Cookbook
I loved Paula on t.v. for a long time...then I realized that most of her cooking is, unfortunately, based on mayo and cream of mushroom soup. Erg. Her desserts are okay, though. I found the recipes disappointing...why? I should have known what I was going to get. My fault, not hers. Since I've switched to more, um, natural ingredients, this kind of cooking, while nostalgic, just doesn't do it for me any more. Sad but true.
Dave's mom gave this to me, and I have to admit, the recipes are pretty good, even if some of them are exceedingly unhealthy, hahaha. Paula Deen's sentimentality really comes through, making her dishes seem special.
The guilty-pleasure, home-cooking recipes of my Texas childhood are all here--cream of soup casseroles, totally decadent desserts, pecan pie and banana pudding. If you have a hankerin' for some down home, no-frills Southern cookin, Paula Deen's got it.
One of my favorites!
I like the 1st cookbooks of chefs the best. They always put in their best recipes that they have used forever. This book is just that. Have autographed cookbook and autographed picture.
Good down-home Southern cooking!
I love to cook!!! Great recipes.
:)
Great recipes before and after her witch hunt.
All my secrets are in these cookbooks. Long live butter!
I won't cook anything from this, but I still love Ms. Deen.
I use this all the time. Great recipes for entertaining... when you have to take something to a social/event... when you need a good appetizer or dessert to take to a friend...
I live and die by the recipes in this book, yes you will gain 20lbs just looking at it but it's sooo simple and so delicious. I reccomend to all beginning cooks.
Greatest cookbook ever written. Paula is my hero!
While many recipes are anything but heart healthy, there are ways to adapt or substitute some ingredients. I have made several as directed from Ms. Deen for special occasions to rave reviews.
The quick rolls and cheesy biscuits were also great.
This is a great cookbook for someone who is looking for easy, quick to make meals.
For instance, in the paprika chicken recipe, at one point it indicates to remove the chicken from the pan but it never gives instructions for at what stage it should be added back in or at all.
Some of the cake recipes indicate pouring the batter into a "prepared pan." A novice might not know that means to grease and flour a pan or even how to do it before use.
My mom and I used to cook out of this cookbook all the time and it brings back memories when I read this.
Since I am from Georgia like Paula Deen I’ve grown up with a lot of food in this book.
Even though I didn’t get to grow up in Georgia because I had to move around so much my mom has made southern food even when we were in Japan.
And most of those foods came from this cookbook.
But overall this book was really good and I suggest if you like southern food than you should definitely read this.
Buying this book introduced me to the blessing of country cooking and taught me how simple recipes can produce tremendous flavor.
Paula's recipe for macaroni and cheese with her fried chicken and collard greens is always a hit with guests!
The majority of the recipes call for everyday ingredients and they are perfect for anyone interested in dabbling with Southern cooking.
The only thing that may turn people off is the fat content of some of the recipes.
However, I do not feel it is problematic enough to deduct a star, since Paula's original recipes are renowned for their heartiness.
Paula Deen says it right up front: if you're dieting, this is not the food for you.
No, but it sure is tasty!
Classic recipes from Paula Deen's Savannah restaurant, The Lady and Sons, are all here along with full color photographs of several of the dishes.
I did wish that it was in more of a cookbook format, it's hard to keep the book open while you're cooking, and I would have also liked a few more pictures of the food.
Otherwise, these are delicious and surprisingly simple recipes.
There were many yummy recipes in this gem of a cookbook. My favorites were the Farmer's Pork Chops, and the Chicken Georgia. The ingredients called for were readily available at any supermarket, and the directions were clear and concise. Many of the recipes are not calorie-conscious, so if you're on a special diet, you will have to adapt some of the recipes. Paula Deen loves butter, and is not afraid to use it!Would recommend to anyone who likes comfort food. Beginner cooking friendly; no special equipment or skills needed to prepare most of these delicious meals.
Southern Heritage Food at its Best!I was missing my family Southern cooking after years of turning my nose up at it.
I finally found a cookbook with recipes that I can trust.
Have the opinion that you will about Mrs. Deen, but her cookbooks will not waste your time or money.Everyone of the heritage recipes have been great!
I never have to worry if it will turn out OK.
I highly recommend if you grew up with Southern food.Many items will be an "acquired taste", and yes, many of the recipes can be unhealthy- just like any other regional food.
Even though I love Paula (and her food!) I wasn't diggin' this one. I ordered it without realizing it was comb bound. It contains no pictures, which makes a cookbook more interesting to me. There are some good recipes in here without doubt, but I had the sense that I didn't know what I was getting into when trying them. I probably would have liked it MUCH more if the format had been different.
I picked up this cookbook at a thrift store. It is definitely a "Who's Who" of Southern recipes. I found it kind of funny that many of the recipes are exactly the same as ones that of been passed down in my family for years and years. If you have ever been interested in "typical" Southern cooking, this cookbook is a good example.
The recipes are simple and family pleasing. It's my go to cookbook. If I had to pick a family favorite, it would be the Basic meatloaf (don't let the name fool you, it's basically delicious) and The Lady's Cheesy Mac. What delights my heart and cooking. My book is autographed. "Happy Cookin!" - Paula Deen :-)
Classic southern "comfort food" cuisine. Not for the faint of heart...or anyone suffering from weight issues, diabetes or cardiovascular disease. Fantastic party recipes, sweets, & holiday fare also including some of Paula's best dishes from her restaurant. Reminds me of the childhood tastes from my Nana's kitchen!
Recipes full of butter and a gazillion calories, these offerings from Paula Deen are tasty, but diet-busting. My favorites are the Gooey Bars and Old-Time Beef Stew. My copy opens automatically to those two pages.
you have to get this book and you should eat at the restaurant in savannah. was blown away by the food and great service, got to shake paulas hand when she made her rounds through the dinning area, got a signed copy of this cookbook
This cookbook is a staple in my kitchen. The Sweet Potato Bake is to die for! I bake the sweet potatoes first, replace the walnuts with pecans...and usually only add a fraction of the sugar that is called for the recipe.
The items I made were great but the reason I gave it 3 stars is because it's meant for long preparations and time to create and I am not home that long to create. So be wise, you have to have time to use this cookbook.
This little book stays on my kitchen counter most of the time! The recipes are wonderful and mostly use simple ingredients. I love Paula Deen's cooking style and when I want to wow a crowd I know I can count on her recipes.
