https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/268559.Winter_Moon
Eduardo is still grieving the death of his wife three years before and the most recent death of his son who was an LAPD police officer.
These characters in different places both going through such terrible things pretty much showcased how the grass is not always greener.One thing that did blow me away while reading this is how crazy that this book was written in 1993 and right now the same discussion regarding police officers and guns is going on in this country.
The whole thing left me a little bit sour mouthed because I don't believe people are against police officers doing their job.
The first time I read a Dean Koontz novel was under his pseudonym, Leigh Nichols, it was many years ago but I remember that it was an excellent spine-tingling, suspenseful book and Winter Moon was no different.
Dean Koontz knows how to instil fear in the reader, from the first page of Winter Moon the terror escalates little by little until the last few pages and then BOOM the tension builds faster and faster.
Loved this book.
I finished it a few hours ago and I'm still shaking in my boots.
One of Dean Koontz's most overlooked books. If you like Strangers, Cold Fire and the Taking, you will most likely enjoy Winter Moon - set mainly in Big Sky Country Montana :-)
I wouldn't say that this is one of Dean Koontz' best works, but it was certainly gripping and entertaining, and really an unforgettable novel.
I enjoyed this book,review to come.
**CAUTION - CONTAINS SPOILERS!***(as written on date read)Brief Summary: A cop finds himself the heir to a ranch in the middle of Montana of where the previous owner had seen and heard weird occurances in the woods behind shortly before his untimely death.The book started out good.
First, the odd things happening in the middle of the woods.
Then the fear of the unknown and evil.Described excellently, you felt how isolated the intro character was, how scared and "real" he was even when inside his own home...
Or Koontz simply lost interest in the story itself and finished it just to fulfill a contract.
I love Dean Koontz's books because you just never know what his rich imagination is going to come up with...but whatever it is it's always a huge surprise.
Usually there is a suspenseful story with some horror moments thrown in....this one has a dark undertone with both gory and psychological horror from the start to finish.
The book is actually two stories in parallel...
Sometimes these two part stories clash and go off in different directions but Dean Koontz has managed to bring them together clean and neatly into an explosive ending.
The dialogue is just as cardboard as the characters, and is pretty much Koontz's standard witty banter - because according to Dean all couples do nothing but share crappy witticism 24/7.Part two is more interesting, but is still loaded with much unnecessary exposition, meaning the page long descriptions of guns.
But don't you worry; after learning all about weapons our heroes posess the adversary of course will be defeated (it's a Dean Koontz book, seriously, what did you expect?) with a help from totally random character who rushes to help our heroes without any sort of doubt or hesitation whatsoever.
Not that the adversary is particularly interesting in any way.Overall, I wouldn't really recommend Winter Moon to anyone.
With no other surviving family he leaves the ranch to, you guessed it Jack, his wife and their lovable son.The family inherits the house at a crucial part in their lives and decide to drop everything and move to Montana.
The wife,Heather notices that something is amiss right off the bat, but doesn't say anything to Jack, not wanting to ruin their fresh new life in Montana she doesn't say anything to Jack until it is too late and their son may be in trouble.Don't worry the dog shows up right around page 180 or so, and what a good little furface he is.
This is an early work from Dean Koontz.
He sees a strange light in the forest and realizes something alien is lurking out there.This book was a little slow in the beginning as the author took some time to set up the story.
I liked this book when it concentrated on the actual story.
This book isn't the author's best work but it is worth a read and one gets his usual trademarks like good versus evil.
Also, what would a Dean Koontz book be without a dog as a character.
This is a pretty good book (despite what some others think :) Hi Maciek...we can't agree on everything LOl).
I don't know if I'd call it one of the author's best he has a pretty wide swing in that area.
This would maybe be a 3.5, if we had half stars.The story is fair and not badly written, the story telling is again "pretty good" and I liked it.
The two stories seemingly running side by side till they meet is something he's done before.Compared to some of Koontz "worst" this is fantastic but compared to his best it's only okay.
Usually, Koontz writes a mostly suspensful story with some horror moments here and there.
This book is the prime example of writing with a dark undertone throughout the story, giving you the feeling that something bad is going to happen.My real rating for this book is four and a half stars, only because the first half of the book, the first story line is okay at best.However, the storyline which involves "Eduardo" is fantastic, creepy, and Koontz's best work in the horror genre in my opinion.
I always enjoy Dean Koontz's stories.
I love the writing, the style, the characters, the dialogue and of course the plot.
This was no exception with both gory and psychological horror, but not for the sake of it.
I don't like gore but this author's stories demand it in places and it's done extremely well.Not as many typos/spelling mistakes/grammatical errors as the recently read Whispers, but I was still amazed at the amount considering those expensive and smug eyes that continually put down independent authors - errors being one of the reasons.However, a fab read, leaving Dean Koontz my all time favourite storyteller.
Bought from WPL for $0.25
Ok, that had to be one of the more creepier books by Dean Koontz. i still loved it! I finished it appropriately in 2 days, i just couldn't stop. I loved the grater driver at the end, his excitement, so perfect for a Dean Koontz book!
Okuduğum en sıkıcı Dean Koontz kitabı olabilir!
Con muchas referencia al muy nombrado Lovecraft. Un policía traumado por la muerte de compañeros y herido d gravedad, se pira con su familia y problemas al campo. Visiones y mal rollo encontrara. Gran sinopsis, historia normal sin aprovechar las situaciones y zonas en que sucede. Lástima.
Soon, in his story, he begins to notice strange things--a deeper darkness to an area behind his house from which strong vibrations and noises come from.
He is a strong, brave man and explores it, finding that it has no end when he places his hand and them arm inside.
Eduardo goes home and continues with his solitary life.
This was my favorite part of the book as Koontz builds the character and I come to respect and like Eduardo.The third part of this book has the policeman and his family coming to live on the ranch.
Its not really bad, but it doesn't have that gripping quality of Koontz' later works, of which I'm a big fan.
The book initially follows two stories in parallel - Jack McGarvey, a cop, and his family in Los Angeles, and Eduardo Fernandez, Jack's deceased partner's father, who lives in a ranch in Montana.
Jack is recuperating from an incident involving a drug-crazed Hollywood director, who opens fire on innocent people, in a service station.
Meanwhile, at the ranch, Eduardo notices bizarre phenomena among the animals around, and realises that there is a mysterious alien force involved.
But, I got a little tired of the alien-themed Koontz novels.
I mean, you've got the freaky, scary, "What the hell was that?" feel going on in the beginning, which totally had me jumping at every noise the house made, but the end was a letdown!
It didn't really make a whole lot of sense, and the "thing" that had been tormenting the entire story fell very flat.I gave it the three stars because the beginning was pure Koontz, the author that I fell in love with in the 8th grade.
It could have been more had the ending matched the feel of the beginning.
Well, I think it's safe to say that I give up on Dean Koontz. I've read so many of his books, and too many of them are "meh" for me. I do enjoy the Odd Thomas series, so I'll continue with that one, but I won't be wasting any more time trying to give him 'just one more chance.'Stephen King, FTW.
I'm a Koontz fan but this one just didn't do much for me. It had a great beginning and I like how he brought the two stories together but the ending was out there. Black holes in the woods, alien like creatures using the dead as their host bodies in order to walk the earth. It was a bit out there for me. I will continue to read his books, but this one I probably would not recommend.
This was my introduction to Dean Koontz. An amazingly good read. Koontz's best writing attribute is his character development, and this great book is no exception. I've found very few Koontz titles I haven't liked.
Don't remember it in enough detail to review fairly. Just wanted to note so I don't pick it up again by accident :)
Enjoyed this one.. creepy and quite slow paced until the last third of the book when the tension really builds quickly a must read for the creepy raccoons
One word:O_OOkay, I know that's not a word.But, still:O_O
-Entretenido, que ya es bastante, pero nada más.-Género. Narrativa Fantástica.Lo que nos cuenta. Jack es un policía de Los Ángeles que ha estado a punto de morir en un tiroteo imprevisto y que ha quedado muy mal herido. Eduardo es el padre de un compañero de Jack que murió en otro tiroteo casi un año antes y que vive solo en una granja aislada donde, poco a poco y mediante pequeños detalles extraños, descubre que están pasando cosas muy raras. ¿Quiere saber más de este libro, sin spoilers? Visite:http://librosdeolethros.blogspot.com/...
This book was "meh". The beginning was pretty good but the ending just dragged on. The climax seemed to last forever. Good plot though. Characters ok. More cops from Mr. Koontz as usual. Good for a casual read.
It was ok. It lacks originality. Suspense is eh. No interesting plot or twists and nothing we haven’t seen before in sci-fi.
https://chitanka.info/book/1897-zimna...„Зимна Луна“ (1994) има две главни сюжетни линии.Първата се върти около полицая Джак и неговото семейство (съпругата Хедър и хлапака Тоби), неговото раняване при изпълнение на своя дълг, и начина по който семейството му се справя с това.
На обложките на някои ретро издания на ранни книги които той сега държи извън печат, човек ще намери снимки на Кунц от края на 60-те и началото на 70-те, където е ясно кой ще пафне козче преди да пусне плоча да послуша музика.Творчеството му тогава—най-вече фантастика и фентъзи—е подобаващо, от школата на Дик и Силвърбърг, като персонажите нерядко са примерно трево-пушещи паранормални детективи с партньори адски изчадия, и измежду приключенията си яко се отдават на свободна любов.(Апропо макар на повечето езици да се ненамирваеми тези ранни негови произведения, на руски като минимум си ги печатат стой та гледай)Но, към средата на 1970-те, минавайки трийсетака, Кунц вече пише само дарк трилъри, а около 1980г, т.е.
