https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2037376.A_Day_Off
A day in the miserable life of a single woman in her 40s, plain, getting stout, works in a glove shop, this is her day off.
It’s the 1930s and she’s a working class Northern woman living in London.
A Day OffNOVELS BY OVERLOOKED WOMEN WRITERS OF THE 20TH CENTURY1.
A Day OffNOVELS OF PSYCHOLOGICAL DISTRESS1.
One Day in the Life of Ivan Denisovich2.
A Day OffNOVELS OF THE ENGLISH WORKING CLASS1.
A Day OffAnd there are no doubt other categories too.
Oh yes, here’s one –FOUR AND FIVE STAR NOVELS I WOULD HESITATE TO RECOMMEND TO YOU BECAUSE FRANKLY THEY’RE PRETTY DEPRESSING1.
A Day Off

This is the story of a lonely aging woman who has not made very good choices in her life. She is not a very likeable character and shook me to the core with some of her behavior. However, I found it to be a realistic portrayal of how many lives are led when looking at them in hind sight. The writing was great and I enjoyed the book.
A Day Off is the story of one day in the life of a lonely, middle-aged woman who realizes she is past her prime and is about to be dumped by her current lover.
She is starting to feel a little desperate and decides to give herself a day in the park, using up the last of her money on train fare, tea and maids of honor cakes.
During her day, she relives her life story--and a pretty sad thing it is too, having bounced from one lover to the next, being 'kept' by them till they tire of her.
A Day Off: One of the least likeable main characters I have seen for a while.
It was written in 1932, and I imagine that it takes place in the beginning of the depression where being an unmarried woman must have been quite a challenge.
I liked the middle part best where she decides what to do around the start of the first world war.
It is obvious what would have been the best and right thing to do, but it is also not surprising why she does, what she did.
I think that was rather well written.
Not a main character I could like, but the way the story is written gives you an insight into her character, and why she does and thinks the way she does. We're given glimpses of her past, her teenage years, her first love, the man she was with before the war and the man she's currently with.All this takes place in one day, a day where she takes herself to the park, visits old haunts and meets up with the people who are part of her neighbourhood.
This book contains three short stories and two longer ones, set in the first half of the 20th century, in England, Czechoslovakia and Italy. My favourite was The Mask, a simple love story.
