https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/54825.Horseman_Pass_By
McMurtry has to be my favorite author because he wrote my favorite book "Lonesome Dove "and so many more classics. This is a fantastic story and McMurtry shows off his uncanny ability to create lovable characters and lives so real you want to try and find them.
Maybe the reason I love McMurtry is the powerful way he evokes the emotional truth of a place through its disparate physical details: the way a man slaps his gloves against his leg or “two young dog coyotes trotting along the edge of a ridge” or “a big freezerful of peach ice cream, rich as Jersey milk.” In the foreground of this story is the narrator, Lonnie, whose heart is an adolescent reservoir of sexual and spiritual longing.
This was the start of a 40+ book career, a book he wrote while attending North Texas State. Imperfect, but astounding first work. "All of them wanted more and seemed to end up with less; they wanted excited and ended up stomped up by a bull or smashed up against a highway; or they wanted a girl to court; and anyway, whatever it was they wanted, that was what they ended up doing without."
McMurtry offers an authentic case of spare prose, no adornments or sentimentality, of this lad as he watches a generation (his grand dad) pass and the takeover of a rapacious new order (Hud, the son of his grand dad's second wife).
This book offered the everyday sights, smells, angst and beauty of north Texas in the 50's.
This book had parallels to The Last Picture Show, the slow paralytic nature of life in small town Midwestern America, and the yearning that is always present.
The animals will call and the cool springs will flow, and you may get lost in this paced out summer of longing and physical deprivation.
McMurtry's a terrific writer and his concise yet often aridly poetic prose captures the feel of coming of age in a small western town in the mid-20th century perfectly.Those who come to the book after having seen the movie will probably be shocked by the book's portrayal of the Hud character.
In the movie, the titular character of Hud is a charming, raffishly likable (no doubt the benefit of being portrayed by the charismatic Paul Newman), yet entirely self-interested scoundrel.
In Horseman, Hud is something closer to a sociopath--a charming cad, still, but colder, more vicious, and even more indifferent to the feelings of other human beings.
The story was quickly transformed into a Paul Newman film "Hud" in 1963, which is the version of the story most people know.
In spirit, the two stories are similar - they are both anti-westerns, in which code of the West is subverted and corrupted by failure of moral character.But McMurtry's novel tells a story with a darker vision.
I heartily recommend this novel for anyone interested in the rural West and ranching, along with McMurtry's more melancholy but less bleak "Leaving Cheyenne."
There was something so bittersweet about this book and I still haven't really decided what I think of it. I agree that the characters seemed so real, the setting just as I imagined. However, the story left me a bit unsatisified - but then again, so was Lonnie at the end and it was his story. The fate of the cows really did touch a nerve - still have too fresh memories of a few years ago and the way it hit our way of life round here. I suppose that's why I wanted something good to happen.
Larry McMurtry's Horseman, Pass By is his first novel and contains the story upon which the movie Hud (1963) with Paul Newman was based.
The story is told from the point of view of Lonnie, the younger grandson of rancher Homer Bannon.
The character of Scott (Hud), the other grandson, is important only in the latter part of the novel, when he tries to take over from Homer.It's hard to conceive of a novel about ranching as being anything other than a bore, but McMurtry manages to bring it off.
In the end, Horseman, Pass By ends up as a paean to a dying way of life.
This was good but it also made me sick to my stomach.
If the next twenty-some novels are anything like 'Horseman, Pass By' I know who's books I'll be reading for the next few years!
His descriptions were spellbinding enough but then he adds unforgettable characters like Granddad - the old rancher who's way of life is crumbling away, Hud - asshole stepson full of spite and bitterness, Jessie - lonesome, down-trodden cowboy, Halmea - source of maternal love and teenage lust, and Lonnie - bundle of wonder, emotion, confusion, teen-age boy longing for excitement.Next on my reading list is 'Lonesome Dove' and I simply can't wait to get started.

A brilliant short contemporary Western--written in 1961--the story of a "not-quite-stranger comes to town"--the devil himself, only he's not quite a stranger, he's the stepson of the upright old rancher, and the perverse role model of the vulnerable grandson. The movie Hud was based on this scorcher of a book. The idealism, stoicism and valor of the Old West held up in contrast to the amoralism, cynicism and viciousness of the Post-War west. A real heartbreaker.
Enjoyed it. The differences between it and Hud, the movie based on this book, make for an interesting contrast. Must read the book and see the movie. Both are worth the time.
Amazingly great modern western -- feels like an epic but it's so short you can read it in a single night!
As it turns out, I never ended up getting a bingo, because I didn't read this book in time, and now I'm abandoning the book altogether.
I don't know how much to fault Larry McMurtry for the race issues in this book -- there's always the argument that these sentiments are true to the time and genre.
But it doesn't mean I have to want to read about racists.Considering how I struggled, not only with this book, but also Howard's End and King Sugarman, I've resolved to put down books much sooner.
I think I will hold on to it and maybe revisit in the future when time has passed and I'm in a better shape rather than reading while suffering of Western-fatigue.
The story follows Lonnie, he is the grandchild of Homer Bannon and he lives in a ranch in Texas with his grandfather, grandmother, her son Hud and the help who includes Halmea - a black house maid whom Lonnie crushes on.
Overall, this is a solid story, we have the cattle of Homer getting sick and the unraveling of Lonnie's young life as the tension over their loss of fortune crumbles around them.
Feels like coming home, to read this. The language is like my dad’s farming language. There are some lovely, poetic turns of phrase, too. But such a sad, sad story. In McMurtry you get characters who are really bad, like Hud, and others who are really good and innocent, like Lonnie Bannon and Halmea, and you get cowboying that rings tragic and true. This one’s not as masterful as Lonesome Dove, obviously, and not as developed (it was published when he was only 26 years old, for pete’s sake), but I could read anything Larry McMurtry writes.
The first western I've ever read and I don't think I'm accustomed to the structure of the genre, because it felt like a slow start. Nevertheless, a beautiful story.
I was immediately swept away by McMurtry's eloquent writing.
The reader is drawn into this story from the onset, devouring every page with a thirst for more.
Hud's contrast character is Lonnie, all around great kid craving excitement.
McMurtry's characterization couldn't be improved upon, he gives us his characters naked, raw, exposed completely to the reader.
is more than a intricate coming of age story, it also tells of no challenge is too great, you just keep going.
McMurtry wrote this novella over 50 years ago, a prelude to his incredible writing talent and illustrious career.
I remember that movie but it changed the book in a couple radical ways.Horseman, Pass By, at 179 pages, is just barely a novel.
Lonnie Bannon, raised by his grandfather on a West Texas cattle ranch, is coming of age.
In the novel Hud is a somewhat background character, someone whom Lonnie watches, just as he watches everyone else-his grandfather, the ranch hands, his buddies in town and Halmea, the black housekeeper/cook.
(In the movie, this character is white and has a different name.) It's a great little book with a stoic old rancher, a disastrous cattle disease, and Hud's attempts to inherit the ranch.
Having read the ‘Lonesome Dove’ cycle and loved the McMurtry style I decided to go back to the beginning of his career and tackled this, his first published novel.
The novel is gritty and hard edged pulling no punches about the narrow minded attitudes to be found, lack of sentimentality ( again in contrast to the ‘Lonesome Dove’ cycle ) , and back breaking rural working and living conditions.
In spite of the differences I found between this and the ‘Lonesome Dove’ books McMurtry’s empathy and even fondness and warmth for his characters comes through in this spare and hard edged novel as much as it did in those books.
Larry McMurtry is really good at making me fall in love with Texas over and over again.
The opening exposition is unspeakably beautiful in it's description of what it feels and looks like as dusk is falling in rural Texas.
Of course, I prefer the book.
Texas has such a vast and varied history and the tales of ranchers is fascinating if not sad and tragic at times.
I cried a few times while reading this book and it's one of those that makes you bawl when it's over.
I highly recommend all three as well as anything else by McMurtry.
I keep buying used books originating from the shelves of someone, someone who writes grammatical corrections in BLUE INK, even when it is OBVIOUS the novel is written in a certain idiom, in this case that of a SIXTEEN YEAR OLD IN WEST TEXAS. And even moral indictments written beside circled portions of text? What compels people to do such things? Do they achieve some satisfaction from pointing to the words of a widely published book, and saying "WRONG" "SINFUL" "EVIL"? What a miserable, contrary person, I'd like to meet them, we'd make an interesting pair.
Pretty impressive for a first novel, and you can see glimpses of what will be coming. Not the most thrilling plot, but good description of life on a 1950s Texas cattle ranch: the isolation, hard work, relations with employees and family, especially through the eyes of a young man yearning for a little more in the world, but also coming more aware of life's injustices, even when it is his own family involved.
A real good read. I liked the conciseness and clarity of theroles; the father, son and grandson, all battling for theiremotional and evolving patriarchal place in the hierarchy ofthe family ranch in small town Texas.If you've seen the movie Hud you'll never get those actorsportrayals of these characters out of your head.
This is an interesting read, although I have found other books by this author I like better, I think the story line is good and the character of Hud, love him or hate him, will find readers eagerly turning the pages.
I need to remember how depressed I get reading stories that are set in small towns, not so that I won't read them, but so I more reasonably choose when I read them.
A beautiful story, as much about growing old as it is about growing up.
Stark. Desolate. Unpleasant. Genius.
The use of words in this novel is perfection. The story is filled with so much humanity and honor. This novel is a masterpiece.
