https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/323172.Mockingbird
I know some birds can be taught to whistle and I'm sure someone has spent numerous hours of their life teaching their dog to whistle, but generally I think humans are the only entity on the planet bad ass enough to actually whistle as we walk through the woods or across the plains announcing our presence to everything "here I am".
In the movie Surrogates starring no other than, Bruce Willis, (the salvation of the human race time and time again), we have an avatar idealized version of ourselves that we move about the world to go to work, to have sex, basically a realized version of a video game that allows the human race to not only stay home, but stay in one room wired into their surrogate all day.
Through his life in prison and subsequent his escape, he learns much about the world he lives in and about himself.Suicidal SpofforthDon’t worry I have not spoiled the book, Mockingbird is not about a prison break, it is a journey of self-discovery.
He learns the value of human interactions (normally taboo) and the meaning of friendship in prison, after escaping he begin his journey towards New York in search of Mary Lou. On the way he falls in with a Christian community for a while, in an exalted position of The Reader, to read Bible passages to the illiterate members.
Finalmente un vero distopico coi controtutti!C'è tutto: l'analisi sociologica del distopico, il dettaglio tecnico e psicologico, c'è puzza di 1984, di Dick, di Asimov e di tantissimi riferimenti della fantascienza classica, c'è pure la love story per chi ne sente la mancanza (e non è una love story buttata li perchè fa share ma perchè DEVE esserci e io sono un ferreo sostenitore dell'odio per le storie d'amore all'interno di un libro che non è un romance xD ).
I chose not to read this based on an allegorical bent, and instead chose to enjoy the oh so clear voice of the Robot Who Would End Humanity.
Of course, he'd do so only because it seems to be the only way to circumvent his programming to live to serve humanity, but them's the breaks, right, humans?Lol, no, this isn't a biting satire of us like the inestimable Roderick, but it does have some wonderful punches built right in to the text.
Humanity has lost the knack and is pushed along the pasture by the robots that tend them.It first looks like a utopia, but of course it isn't, despite all the sex and drugs you might want, all your wants, satisfied.
My favorite speculative fiction of all time is Michael Cunningham's  Specimen Days  which I read back in 2012, while the very first science fiction I read was Aldous Huxley's  Brave New World . I read these books only a few months apart and I was forever changed because of them and this change has definitely got me interested to venture on acquiring and experiencing more of what the science fiction genre has to offer as much as I could. Eleven more sci-fi books later, I remained insatiable, more
Until learning how to read I had lived in a whole underpopulated world of self-centered, drug-addicted fools, all of us living by our Rules of Privacy in some crazy dream of Self-Fulfillment." ~ Paul BentleyThe summary found at the back of the book was slightly misleading.
I originally thought that the android character Spofforth would be the main focus of the entire novel but it turns out that this responsibility belongs to two other characters; a man and a woman named Paul Bentley and Mary Lou respectively who are instantly recognizable as the representational equivalent of their world's very own Adam and Eve, as both stumble their way into consciousness and awareness together.

If I were not a reader of books I could not feel this way.
Whatever may happen to me, thank God that I can read, that I have truly touched the minds of other men.'Don't ask.
This is the message the population are programmed to think in this futuristic USA.The technological themes of this book seem particularly prevalent to me in our current age.
What does it mean to be an individual?Tevis explores these philosophical themes and also takes a look at religion while doing so..ambitious for a relatively short book!
And he pulls it off..a very thought provoking read.
If the message of the book is that reading and knowledge and intellectual curiosity is a good thing, this definitely wasn't the case for Spofforth, who is more knowledgeable then anybody left on the planet, seems to appreciate beauty, but whose mind is always tired and who wants to die.
I think this book possibly could have been much better if the relationship between Mary Lou and Paul was developed more strongly, rather than just having Mary Lou become nonchalant about their relationship and Paul ending up being just a sad, whining character in love with a woman who doesn't care much about him.
Una lettura davvero splendida, una storia che mi ha dato e fatto vivere emozioni e sensazioni che raramente ho provato con altri libri.Ovviamente un paragone con i mostri sacri, con i capisaldi del genere distopico è d'obbligo.Partendo da "Noi" di Zamjatìn, ho trovato affine la poetica in alcuni passaggi.
Con "Il mondo nuovo" di Huxley invece ho trovato la stessa oppressiva e catastrofica ossessione per la tecnologia.
18\01\2018: Sono ancora sopraffatta dalle mille emozioni che questa lettura mi ha suscitato, al momento ho un unico aggettivo per descriverlo: straordinario.20\01\2018:Ecco la recensione ^_^ http://piumaecalamaio.blogspot.it/201...Ci troviamo catapultati nell'anno 2467, all'interno di una società futuristica fortemente predominata dai robot - oramai hanno preso il sopravvento - in cui il genere umano si sta drammaticamente estinguendo.Sotto l'egida della "legge della Privacy" è tassativamente vietata ogni forma di sentimento e contatto tranne una tipologia, insegnata loro fin dalla tenera età: «Il sesso in fretta è meglio».

La meccanica dell'Io interiore L'uomo si è sempre contraddistinto nel cercare di trasmettere qualcos
Scott and Julie argue about the meaning of "Only the mockingbird sings at the edge of the woods."Neighbors tell them to take it to the edge of the woods because it's 2:00 a.m. and "some of us have work in the morning!" They quiet down long enough to discuss Mockingbird.Reading this the second time was just as good as the first time, if not better.My original review is below.================Only the mockingbird sings at the edge of the woods.Why have I never heard of this magnificent book before?Thank goodness my mother, 80 years old and never afraid of a Kindle Daily Deal, read it and commanded me to do likewise.In the 25th century all the work is done by robots, the ones that haven't broken down.
We cannot expect to find any simple answer to such a momentous question—but…learning to read may have a highly significant contribution to make.' The dystopian premise of Walter Tevis's 'Mockingbird' is that a world without reading is a world without thought and feeling.
Robots do the thinking (and produce the goods), and the human population avoids feeling (and work) by smoking lots of dope and taking 'sopors.' Forget 'IGNORANCE IS STRENGTH;' the maxims here are 'Don't ask; relax' and 'When in doubt, forget it.' Intimacy is frowned upon: "Quick sex is best.' But no one's happy (or sad) and as nearly everyone turns inward, there are no more children.
Brave, brainy robot, Spofforth is tired of taking care of humans; he had done so for centuries. Bentley and Mary are just the humans to help, Bentley by teaching himself to read and then teaching Mary, start a journey of connection to each other and then to the rest of humanity. Marvelous look at why reading is so important and why we should never lose this great gift.
La claustrofobia orwelliana tipica di 1984 frammista ad un totale ed artificiale inebetimento dell'umanità che ricorda molto Il mondo nuovo di Huxley, così come il tema ricorrente delle droghe presente in molti dei romanzi di P.K. Dick sono sicuramente i principali sapori letterari che condiscono questo romanzo che non ha nulla da invidiare ai suoi precursori.Il libro è ambientato nel 2467, negli Stati Uniti d'America.
Il racconto è l'intreccio delle storie di tre personaggi, che rispettivamente rappresentano la riscoperta di un senso d'umanità ormai perduto (Bentley), la progressiva ribellione che matura ed esplode (Mary Lou), l'agognata morte di chi è condannato all'immortalità (Spofforth).Non ho voglia di rivelare ulteriori dettagli di una storia che va assaporata (divorata) pagina dopo pagina.
In this bleak world, we meet three people - Spofforth, a handsome black robot whose programming prevents him from carrying out his suicidal urges; and two humans whose relationship is complicated by Spofforth: Mary Lou, a rebel who's ceased taking the soma-like drugs provided to all people, and Bentley, a teacher - such as a teacher can be in a society which has largely forgotten what reading is.
Bentley's discovery of reading, coinciding with his meeting Mary Lou, leads him to start questioning what's going on around him, and what's happening to humanity.Overall, I liked the book - some nice commentary on the nature of humanity, and, of course, anything pro-reading is something I can get behind!
Popping happy-pills and letting robots do the dishes for you doesn't sound terribly upsetting to me, but no books?
Tevis had me hooked from the start thanks to the importance he attaches to the written word.
The people of the future have put their lives in the hands of robots in order to pursue worldly pleasures, to the point where nobody remembers how to perform the simplest tasks.
Two humans, Paul and Mary Lou, become the Adam and Eve of this declining civilization when they learn to read and form new, revolutionary ideas.
The book was written in the 80's but might as well have been from the fifties.
Our relentless drive towards automating everything, our pursuit of pleasure and rugged individualism has led to a society in which we are run by robots and humans have become hopelessly uneducated, permanently drugged out of their minds and are losing the will to live.Now things are falling apart.
No one knows how to read anymore or how anything works, most of the robots created to look after us killed themselves because they couldn't bare living, the population is dwindling rapidly and everyone is too stoned to know or care anyway.
The future looks bleak and humanity doesn't look worth saving anyway.This story centers around three characters.
Uma das melhores fábulas de ficção-científica que já li. Quando deixamos de ler, o que acontece ao mundo que nos rodeia? Quando deixamos de escrever, o que nos acontece enquanto pessoas? Uma distopia que coloca em cena respostas a estas perguntas, a partir de uma sociedade tecnologicamente evoluída na qual os humanos deixaram as responsabilidades às costas dos robôs. Uma fábula que tem tanto de instigante como de pungente. Quando se questiona o valor da escrita e da leitura, acaba-se por questionar o valor de se estar vivo.
Reading the gushing reviews all over the internet makes me feel almost as isolated from society as the inhabitants of Tevis's moribund 25th century USA.[return][return]The big idea is that after the standard technological misadventures - WWIII, fallout, mass-death, global government - humankind has come to eschew all interaction and individual expression, with people retreating into their inner worlds while being fed, clothed and stupefied with fertility-inhibiting drugs by a decrepit robotocracy prone to malfunction and scarcely able to perpetuate itself.
Nonetheless, I made it through ‘Mockingbird’, an interesting science fiction curiosity from 1980.
The main narrator, Bentley, teaches himself to read and finds that this wholly transforms his life.
He encounters Mary Lou (somewhat of a Manic Pixie Dream Girl) and Spofforth (the most advanced robot to exist and thus essentially in charge of the world).
Perhaps the whole thing would have seemed more cohesive if I’ve read it in a fewer sittings?
On balance, though, it struck me as an intriguing dystopia that spent too much time with its least interesting character and strung together some thought-provoking ideas in a rather loose fashion.
Questions for book club discussion (mostly unasked):- Was Walter Tevis a giant Republican?- Quick sex, is it really best?- Your choice: monkey bacon, pork bacon, or something from the sandwich machine at the zoo?- Is "Biff" an appropriate name for a female cat, even in a terrifying dystopia where nobody can read?
Accessible and interesting, this book imagines a world where humans had lost all purpose and culture and the only intelligence remaining is a suicidal robot. The journey of the humans back to humanity is difficult, but touching. I enjoyed this book.
But he really wants to die so he finds a pretty creative way (view spoiler)[He tricks a census machine into thinking that mankind is overpopulating the earth.
Once everyone has dies, the robot can die too (hide spoiler)].Kind of a cliched story with an interesting twist.
Also, and I acknowledge that these nitpicks are more of a sign of the times when the novel was written and not intended to offend, the novel's treatment of women was dated (view spoiler)[One character kills herself rather than to engage in any kind of intimacy with a man who is not her husband.
Many of the most seminal dystopian novels are chilling for the extent to which they depict a “new normal” of human existence. By this I mean that these novels don’t just portray people oppressed or living under the thumb of a ruling class or technologically-imposed social structure—no, the best dystopian novels create a world in which people are happy, or at least satisfied, with the new status quo. Nineteen Eighty-Four,  Brave New World , and  Fahrenheit 451  all do this to some extent.Fahrenhe
By this I mean that these novels don’t just portray people oppressed or living under the thumb of a ruling class or technologically-imposed social structure—no, the best dystopian novels create a world in which people are happy, or at least satisfied, with the new status quo.
Now, in the former book, literacy was allowed—it was reading books that was banned; in Mockingbird, Walter Tevis takes things one step further and has humanity forget how to read or write at all.
The idea that our civilization could be reduced to drug addicts managed by ill-maintained robots is troubling, but not all that far-fetched.I'm a little confused about where all the people from the developing world are in this book.
The tendency to privacy, lack of relationship development, and shirking responsibility is taken to an extreme here but it addresses trends that have still been happening for the last 35 years since Mockingbird was published.The setting is America a few hundred years into the future where people built robots to do all their work and then retreated into a life of selfish and purely personal amusement, and over time lost the ability to do what the robots do for them, repair the robots, or even read.
I was torn between three and four stars but I think I would have liked this more if it didn’t remind me of so many other books I’ve already read but this was written almost 40 years ago so I can’t fault Mockingbird for me not reading it before the others.Mockingbird is a dystopian future where we have created robots to do most of our tasks so that we could relax and be more introspective.
This means there are anti-fertility drugs in the Sopors that everyone is popping like candy.
(Tady bude už nutno použít roboty vyšších generací.) Není tohle přesně ten směr, který uvedl společnost do situace, o které vypráví Tevisova kniha?
Uklidňující tablety, prášky na spaní a drogy už bychom také měli, velkoplošné televizory, které nám už teď cpou do hlav to, co je zrovna potřeba, jsou tu také, takže myslím, že máme našlápnuto.
A když se pokusím představit si, zda za 500 let budou lidé ještě umět číst, nebo spolu mluvit, obávám se, že ne.
Takže bych chtěla věřit, že po nás nezůstanou jen ty „motivační knihy“ a že se lidé dál budou umět radovat ze všedních věcí, zpěvu ptáků, lesa, květin, písniček, básniček, dobrých filmů a knih.
Published in 1980 I wonder what Tevis would say about the state of things today, where most people carry phones called Androids, and so much communication is done via technology.
I don't know the actual figures of where things stand when it comes to literacy today, though as far as I'm concerned people don't read nearly enough.
Most interaction is through our phones and our computers; maybe it's just me but it seems when people actually get together there's this level of weirdness, like they don't know how to talk to each other anymore.
