https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/389808.Essential_Amazing_Spider_Man_Vol_1
What’s amazing about this story is how after 50 years the elements introduced in these first issues are still the ones that are being carried on today. That shows you how powerful and perfect the ideas were. Right from the beginning we have the main cast, from Aunt May to Jolly Jonah himself. Even the villains are classic. There isn’t one villain in here that isn’t still being used today. (A possible exception being the Big Man, but really isn’t Kingpin just the new Big man? Okay, okay, the liv
What’s amazing about this story is how after 50 years the elements introduced in these first issues are still the ones that are being carried on today.
Okay, okay, the living brain as well, but I’ll just cheat and say the webhead still fights robots.) 	You can sum up every issue of Spider-Man as follows: with power comes great responsibility!
If you live in the Marvel universe Spider-Man is about the last hero you want showing up to save you.
Even Peter himself is always wondering why he bothers to dress up like Spider-man.
Spider-man is hands down my favorite superhero and the Lee/Ditko stuff is hands down my favorite stories.
I’ll probably be rereading and reviewing more Spider-Man comics leading up to the film.
And third, he can't have personal problems if he's supposed to be a superhero—don't you know who a superhero is?'" Thankfully, Lee managed to get Spider-Man into Amazing Fantasy  with the help of artist Steve Ditko, and the rest is history.
Peter Parker is your average, genius (lol) teenager struggling with money problems, girl trouble, and low popularity.
Saving the day often finds Peter with another bad situation in his personal and heroic lives (coined Parker Luck).
Also, Spider-Man refers to Vulture as birdman.
For Spider-Man and comic books.
Den Großteil der Stories dieses und auch des zweiten Bandes kann man heute noch genauso lesen wie damals, zu Beginn der 60er, das ist Comicunterhaltung vom allerfeinsten, und immer noch besser, als 90% dessen, was heutzutage produziert wird.
Dazu trägt sowohl der einfühlsame und kreative Stil Lees bei, als auch die brillianten Zeichnungen Ditkos, an denen ich mich nicht sattsehen kann.
Ich finde den auch toll, aber meiner Meinung nach ist der Lee/Ditko-Run von Amazing Spider-Man noch besser.Uneingeschränkte Kaufempfehlung.
4.5 amazing how many mainstream spidey villains were invented in the first 20 issues.
The very beginning of Spider-Man!
Essential Amazing Spider-Man volume 1 collects the very first issue of Spider-Man from Amazing Fantasy #57, Issue 1-20 of The Amazing Spider-Man and the Amazing Spider-Man Annual #1.
We were introduced to some of his most memorable nemesis such as Sand Man, Chameleon, Vulture, The Green Goblin, etc.
The storylines were actually connected rather than as monster of the week, but some of the events seemed trivial thanks to the worst character ever conceived: May Parker.
Otherwise it is a really fun volume even if the characters were becoming stereotypes.
It's Ditko's artwork that really shines in these early stories with nearly every panel offering something fresh and new.There's also a lot of groundwork set down here by Lee and it's impossible to understate the importance of the introduction of a teenage superhero with day to day problems.
Having read a lot of early Batman stories recently, this really does feel like refreshing stuff.
I love them, but they really aren't perfct.And oh, how can you read these in black and white, really?
Honestly, like most of its era, the original Spidey comics really don't hold up at all, visually or story-wise. What is here has its moments however, introducing some of one of the best rogues galleries in comics, some solid character moments for Peter, the obvious historical significance. It's worth a read, or at least a skim, if you really want the knowledge, and it's better than most of its time, but it's still not that great anymore.
A true classic of the genre, it is easy to see why this was so popular. Lee and Ditko play with audience expectations all the time, subvert the comic book genre as it was in the 60s to make one of the great runs. Of course this has dated, too much text clutters the pages, too much exposition and thinking out loud... But all this is forgivable taking into account the historical context of the comics.
Wanna know how Spidey got his start?
Wanna know about his high school life?
His lousy luck with girls?
This tome has all the stories of The Amazing Spiderman.
None of the stories are reprinted in color, and that stinks, but it's still very cool watching how Stan Lee and the Marvel-ous artists who worked on these first issues.
I really enjoyed seeing the early rather tame villains, but you meet some of serial super-villains that Your Friendly Neighborhood Spiderman deals with in recurring fashion; Doctor Octopus, and the Green Goblin to name a few.
It was fun to see how it all started. Yes, the old comics from 1963 seem a bit dated now. Some parts are almost silly. But Spider-man was supposed to be a different, fun, relatable character. And I really think that the team had a lot of fun making it. So many things remained the same since then, so many villains are still the most well-known villains ever, though they have more developed stories now. Does this deserve 4 stars? I don't know. But I cannot give less than that, because from these comics my favourite superhero was born.
It's interesting to see the very first Spider-man comics, and the story ideas were interesting, but Stan Lee's writing is just sub par. He ends every sentence with one of four options: ..., !, !!, or !? in an attempt to make everything "exciting and action packed" rather than letting the story develop naturally and culminate in something exciting at the end, and that stops me from being able to enjoy most of his comics.
What an awesome introduction to the world of Peter Parker/Spider-Man. Even though it was published in the 1960s, it is thoroughly entertaining, engaging and well paced. The pictures are really captivating, and grabbed my attention instantly. Really awesome stuff! Can't wait to read more Spidey stuff.
Great for anyone who wants to start at the beginning of the running. Only downside don't come in color:(
Great fun. It's interesting to see Lee and Ditko evolve their approach, slowly getting more sophisticated.
The one and only comic for a boy. Inimitable
The Marvel style of telling these stories are more apparent in Spider-Man and age considerably well (they age much better than the early Fantastic Four comics, for sure).
The artwork by Steve Ditko (one of the best artists ever to be employed at Marvel)is as responsible for making these early Spider-Man stories as Stan Lee's dialogue and plotting.
The artwork makes Spider-Man believable and Ditko had a way of making the images and facial expressions of the characters bring something special to the finished product that elevates it from being more than simply a comic book.
As a Spider-Man fan, I’m ashamed to admit it took me this long to read these comics.
In this book, Spider-Man and the Human Torch cross paths several times, and it’s clear that the popular and socially adept Torch is a very different type of hero than Spider-Man.The book features many villians, and tells the stories of many of their origins.
In a rare moment of weakness, he admits that he tears Spider-Man down because he’s jealous of his bravery, power, and selflessness.These comics cover Spider-Man’s early career, so Mary Jane is absent, Instead, Peter pines for Betty Brant, Jameson’s secretary.
At one point towards the end of this volume, the Parker family doctor refers to Aunt May as a hardy woman -- that's an understatement, given than in the course of 21 issues and an annual she manages to have at least three heart attacks, two major operations, sundry lesser attacks and ailments, is apparently at least eighty and extremely slight...but she strives to take care of Peter and spends a lot of convalescence time trying to be up and around to feed him pancakes and set him up on blind dates with Mary Jane Watson (who doesn't actually make an appearance for another two years!)I suspect Aunt May is actually a Skrull.
OS HOMENS-ARANHA DE STEVE DITKO: ESSENTIAL SPIDER-MAN VOL.
1 E 2Existe um antes e depois de Steve Ditko na história do Homem-Aranha.
O paradoxo só é aparente: ainda que Ditko seja o primeiro desenhista regular do personagem, ele o encontrou assim para devolvê-lo assim.As diferenças entre as duas imagens superam a PISTOLA DE TEIAS: ao contrário da primeira versão, de Jack Kirby [pelo que se diz, uma versão genérica de The Fly, personagem que o rei co-criou com Joe Simon], o Homem-Aranha de Ditko parece um adolescente escorregadio e ameaçador, não um ícone sólido e inspirador.Mas isso é o nível PLAYMOBIL de CRITICISMO SUPER-HERÓICO.
Sure we all know the origin but I wanted to kind of go back in time and see how Spidey/Peter was characterized back then.
So much so that you kind of get tired of reading Spidey's thoughts on why he is shooting webs at a villains arms.
Overall though this book is a lot of fun and a neat little time capsule into the character, the world he inhabits, and even the world of the readers of the 1960's.
Definitely worth a read if you're interested in the character or pop culture of the time.
I was never the biggest fan of Lee's writing or of Ditko's art.
By the time I started reading comics in the late 1970s, better artists and writers had made the character who he was to me, so I never really cared about the idea that he was a vulnerable teen so much as he was a young adult living on his own and holding his own with the likes of the Avengers as he does today.
However, I have to acknowledge that if these stories hadn't come along then the character could not have been expanded and fully fleshed out to the one I appreciate today.
Still reading this one, but Spidey is a favorite of mine. He's pretty down to earth and has his weaknesses, he's friendly and conflicted and believes that 'with great power comes great responsibility.' I'm not huge on spiders, but they're a pretty cool creature nonetheless and they take care of lots of bugs for us. The thing I've noticed about comic books is that they provide a snapshot of the history of their time-frame. It shows what our cultured valued at those times, which is fun to try to figure out from each comic.
Never a huge Spider-man fan myself, but it's hard to deny his place in comic book history or the imagination, humor and energy that Stan Lee and Steve Ditko bring to these stories and the amazing amount of characters that are still in use in comics to this day and have become part of the foundation of the marvel comics universe.Fun stuff, as Lee is able to write soap hero as well as super heroics in a way that make them over the top and part of the fun, rather than dragging the story down.
This is the first book any respectable Spider-fan should get (the second is, of course, Ultimate Spider-Man Vol. 1). This collects and reprints some of the most classic Spidey tales ever, including the majority of his rogue gallery intro stories and the oh-so-motivational issue #19, in which Spidey, after nearly giving up the mantle, bears the world's punishments like a man and kicks butt in a series of well-done fight sequences. Congrats, Stan and Steve, congrats.
Some of this is great, some of it annoying, some of it boring, some of it still ahead of its time. The second volume so far seems much better because there are parts of this that are dated. That said, the merging of romance, horror, superhero and comedy are almost seamless here. The newspaper print made my eyes hurt and gloss over sometimes BUT this is definitely worth reading. The best issues are the ones where Peter Parker is fighting Flash, girl troubles and his aunt. Interested in more!
This is a classic regardless what you think of comic books. I mean it's Spider-Man! Yeah there is some cheesy writing here and there but what wonderful cheesy writing it is. Truly Spider-Man began a new era,and has stood the test of time. These Essential Marvel books I also think are great. They are black and white, but thay are also reasonably priced. Highly recomended for people who just want to know the whole story.
This was definitely one of the easiest of the Marvel essential Vol. 1's that dates back from the beginning of marvel. But I think the thing that stood out the most is how pretty much every issue in here introduced a villain that was memorable and is still a big part of the Marvel lore. Especially when compared to the villains in say the first volumes of X-Men or Fantastic Four or Thor, whats in here as antagonists was great.
Incredibly formulaic, but an interesting background on Peter Parker and some iconic Spider-Man villains. While Spider-Man is definitely not my favorite Marvel hero, it was fun to read an earlier comic. The Vulture and of course The Green Goblin stood out to me. And damn, does Peter lead a depressing life. Hopefully, in the next volume he will have some better luck.
First twenty issues that Spider-Man appears in, introducing such villains as Kraven the Hunter, the Green Goblin, Mysterio, the Chameleon, the Scorpion, Sandman, the Enforcers, Electro, and others. Shows the initial development of Spider-Man while he is still just a high school kid. Great read for comic fans.
Classic, concentrated creativity. Lots of essential Marvel villains get born in this collection, Peter Parker as a late teen superhero protagonist with the inner conflicts of this duality; all this forms the great basics for this series, yet the overall quality of the stories vary, and some seem more quickly written than others, which is why I can't give it top grades.
