https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2090349.Letters_of_Wolfgang_Amadeus_Mozart
Five stars, because anything less would be unfair. This is a collection of letters to and from Mozart. For me to read a dead mans personal letters to friends and family and to then say, "well, I guess I was entertained, maybe I'll read another dead mans personal letters to compare and get a fuller perspective" would sort of feel wrong. It's a very cool way to get a personal look into who Mozart was. Also, his letters to his wife usually begin with "Dearest, best little wife," which is just great.
Mozart is so engaging and so funny in his letters! What a brilliant mind he had.
And he is so gleeful and joyous, signing letters with one thousand kisses and often more.This book consisted of letters written between Mozart and his father.
Also, he was less than forthcoming with his father, who had such high expectations for Mozart's career.
That being said, Mozart goes on my list of people I wish I could have met.
To play music with him, to watch him compose, to attend a debut of The Magic Flute, even to lend him money, just to be a part of his happy little world being greeted with a thousand kisses, that would be magical.
Such a funny and great guy, you must read it if you want to understand Mozart
An absolute must read for classical lovers; this one has dated and non-dated letters written from this prodigy back in the Classical period days. It was unfortunate he had to pass so young at the age of 36....10 more years of his life, I wonder what types of music he could have produced!!!
Mozart - you're so funny!
unbeliveable
A true must read!
551 Pages - Tome 2 - 1777/1778La correspondance de Mozart est sans conteste la plus célèbre des correspondances de musiciens.Couvrant toute sa vie, depuis la missive de son père annonçant sa naissance à l'ultime lettre de Mozart à sa femme, elle servit d'assise aux premières biographies du compositeur. On y découvre la figure imposante du père, Leopold, très tôt conscient du remarquable talent de son fils et instigateur du grand voyage des enfants prodiges, Wolfgang et Nannerl, à travers l'Euro
On y voit s'émanciper l'adolescent génial puis l'adulte extravagant: Mozart prend d'abord la plume en de petits post-scriptum pleins d'esprit, puis conte, au fil des lettres, le quotidien et l'exceptionnel, son amour vain pour la chanteuse Aloisia Weber, la rupture avec son protecteur le prince Colloredo, son mariage avec Constanze, ses ennuis de santé ou d'argent, ses joies et ses deuils...Commentateur critique de la musique de son temps et de ses contemporains, il se plaît à donner des descriptions truculentes de son entourage.
Le style vif, pétillant, le ton parfois trivial de Mozart épistolier font la saveur de cette correspondance, dont les premières éditions censurèrent nombre de passages
I liked that this was purely correspondence, not colored by anyone's opinions of what was meant by this, that and the other. More interesting as it goes along, Mozart grows older, tries to please his father while simultaneously trying to break free. Near the end you get a real sense of his desperation, and a feeling of almost, almost, almost...
I don't think the translation of these letters does Mozart's known pixilated personality any justice.
