https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/48137.A_Zoo_in_My_Luggage
A Zoo in my Luggage is Gerald Durrell's account of a six-month trip he and his wife made in 1957, collecting animals in Bafut, a mountain grassland region in Cameroon, West Africa.
they flew so fast and their bodies were so slender, that all you could see was this shimmer of frosty wings ..."With such an eye for detail, and understanding of animal behaviour, how much more preferable in a book about animals, is a balance between anecdotes of "animal antics" and such informative and nuanced description.Arriving in Bafut, Gerald Durrell was very relieved to find the Fon as delighted to see him as he had dared to anticipate.
A whole glorious panoply of exotic pets for my own private Zoo - all HAND-PICKED through my own considerable (and uproariously funny) Herculean efforts!"So seems to say Gerald Durrell at the outset of this outrageous romp.
And I think you could write the history of our Ontario childhood from the standpoint of our endless succession of family pets!So he LOVED this book.And Durrell, the famous brother of Lawrence, the equally renowned author of The Alexandria Quartet, never disappoints...And he's sure to lift our own spirits, in a never-say-die toast to the Spirit if Adventure.
I'm sure I must have read this years ago along with the rest of his books, but I was quite happy to read it gain. Durrell's books are a bit dated now but they are still warm and funny and full of beautiful descriptions of the countryside and of facts about the many animals he meets along the way. This was a fairly light hearted and entertaining book which could have been designed for reading in a waiting room. This was where I read most of it and it served the purpose perfectly!
Death and sickness are described as an inevitable annoyance, which happen at the more inconvenient times and ruin his plans.Given the title, the period in which it occurred, and basic topic of the story (Durrell set out to collect enough animals for his own zoo), I shouldn't be surprised, but I expected so much more from someone who also wrote "through the naturalist's eyes a sparrow can be as interesting as a bird of Paradise, the behavior of a mouse as intriguing as that of a tiger..." and who claimed that his desire for his own zoo came from the "heartbreaking" process of passing animals on to other zoos, where he could not look out for them.
I like to read about animals and had seen the tv series "The Durrells of Cofu on PBS.
I wanted to read one of Gerald Durrell's memoirs.
He writes about traveling to Africa to collect animals of all kinds to start up a zoo.
he uses a sense of humor to write about what he went through with his team to catch these animals of all kinds to start up his zoo.
kind of drags in parts but still fun to read of this man's love of all animals and getting them in the Zoo of his dreams.

I was excited to begin this read of Gerald Durrell, founder of the Durrell Wildlife Conservation Trust, an incredible Non-Profit Organization.
However, I was pretty shocked at how Durrell's writing, in this particular book, stereotyped the Africans that he encountered (to put it mildly!) Today, conservationists typically don't think it's a great idea to roam the countryside, stealing rare baby animals from their mothers, to put into cages and bring back to the collector's homeland with little idea of what the animal ate, it's roll in the environment, it's needs....etc.
It is shocking to read of how Durrell began collecting in this exact manner.
Enough good things can't be said about Gerald Durrell and his amazing (true) animal stories. Touching, clever, interesting, very witty and thoroughly compelling. I have seven of his books already, and my collection is steadily growing.Highly recommended.
I've always loved Gerald Durrell's writing, even more than his brother Lawrence's. This is a superb account of Gerald's African quest for critter to populate his own zoo. The African characters are delightful and tales of the animals are so funny as well as educational.
Immediately what got me was the antiquated tone towards the Cameroonian people.
I am sure he respected them to some degree, but without explicitly saying it, it shows the opinion of what white British people thought of Africans at the time.
Reminding myself that it was a different time, I accepted the tone and attitude and carried on.
An interesting insight into attitudes of the time and into the process it took to capture animals, but I give it 2 stars for everything else.

Ojalá hubiera hecho caso a mis padres antes y me hubiera animado hace años con Gerald Durrell.
Aún así lo he disfrutado muchísimo, me ha despertado inquietudes y me ha hecho entender muchas cosas.
Me da la sensación de que describe las cosas con exactamente las palabras adecuadas y las metáforas perfectas en cada caso.
Leerlo ha sido un auténtico placer y a la vez me ha hecho replantearme muchas cosas.
Creo que todo el mundo debería leer a Durrell, si te gustan los animales y, sobre todo, si no te gustan.
An entertaining little bit of memoir from Durrell about his trip to Cameroon to collect exotic animals for the zoo he planned to establish back in England.
He took the somewhat backwards approach of acquiring the animals first, then looking for a suitable location to exhibit them.It’s an amusing read, just a series of anecdotes about catching (mostly buying from the locals, actually), housing, feeding, nursing and photographing the animals.He also writes a good bit about his host in Cameroon, a potentate with a great many wives and children and a fondness for strong drink (which Durrell seems to have shared).
Love it!
This is another enjoyable and amusing book by Gerald Durrell, an account of one his animal-collecting expeditions to Bafut in the British Cameroons in West Africa. I didnt know where this was and had to look it up in my atlas; the country must now have changed its name.Previously, while collecting animals in that country, Durrell had been permitted to stay in the Palace of the Fon of Bafut. I dont know what a Fon is, neither could I find the word in any dictionary, but Durrell states that he was
On reading Durrell´s books we realize that each individual animal has its own distinct personality, just as we humans do.When talking to the Fon and the other locals, Durrell and the others use a form of pidgin English, only half of which I for one could understand.The Durrells and the Fon enjoy many entertaining get-togethers, with much dancing, singing and drinking, not least the latter.They are presented with many monkeys, and one of their favourites is a half-grown female baboon called Georgina.
This is an autobiographical account of how Gerald Durrell (an already much experienced “animal rustler”) assembled his own private collection of exotic animals which, in due course and against considerable odds, became the backbone of his zoo on the island of Jersey (now the Durrell Wildlife Park).I would not normally want to read about wild animals in a zoo, but this is the story of a passionate animal lover who is committed to doing what it takes to save at least some of the species that mankind's unstoppable spread is driving into extinction.
The stories in this book are funny, and the love he has for animals is apparent on every page.What made this hard to read was not the writing or plot or anything literary.
I know that Durrell was a product of his time, and that many expeditions looked like this: barging into some African "wilderness," taking whatever you wanted, paying over the African market value but still not fair value for what you wanted, and otherwise promoting your white self and customs above the natives'.
I know that Durrell was a product of his time, and did amazing things for the animal conversation movement.
I intend to read all his other books, because I love the way he tells his stories.
The true and amusing tale of how Durrell went to the Cameroons to acquire animals for his own zoo, which was then set up on Jersey in the Channel Islands.
The last part of the book describes Durrell’s escapades with the animals in suburban Bournemouth, which is very funny, and even informative, when he reports some simian behavior.
All in all a cute, lightweight book, with minor flaws rooted in the point of view of Durrell’s generation and class.
In it he tells about a collecting trip he took to Bafut in Africa and his adventures with animals and people during the six months or so he was there.
Eventually he found a zoo on Jersey Island.
I don't think Durrell had the ability to write a poor book, but this is probably one of his best in my opinion.
I still recommend My Family and Other Animals as an introduction to Durrell but this one would work too.
Even better, join the Gerald Durrell Trust in Jersey Island and contribute to the amazing work they have and are doing to save animals from extinction!
Upon returning to England, however, they have nowhere to put the animals - Cholmondeley the chimpanzee, Bug-eye the bush baby, and others - as managing his menagerie proves to be just as adventurous as capturing the creatures.
A Zoo in My Luggage is a true story of the animal-loving boy who grew up to make a Noah's Ark of his own.Mr Durrell's lovingly observant eye is turned not only onto the animals of Cameroon but to the people who aided (and abetted) his efforts.
the story of Small the squirrel, banished to her own cage after trying vigorously to cache a peanut in Mr Durrell's ear had me giggling quietly to myself all day ;)

No matter how 'out of date' his books may be now, Gerald Durrell remains an absolute pleasure to read.
Not only does he have a wealth of fascinating experience from which to draw, he has an excellent eye for detail.
His style is dry, amusing, and full of that oh-so-English litotes which is so rarely seen in newer writing.
However, this was mostly because it sounded like JarJar Binks, and I can hardly blame Gerald Durrell for something that was George Lucas' fault some 40 years after he wrote this book.
I became used to reading it fairly quickly though, and it soon ceased to actively annoy me.
I really wanted to like this book, but I couldn't get past my dislike of the near constant use of pidgin.
The book is certainly dated, as evidenced by the descriptions of the people of West Africa, but I'd have been willing enough to accept that as a sign of the times if I hadn't had to wade through the pidgin.I also question the wisdom of collecting his own menagerie BEFORE he had a zoo to put them in.
That seemed to me extraordinarily irresponsible for someone who claims to be concerned with saving the animals.Some of the stories are amusing.
I liked reading about the animals.
Hilarious! I've read many books by Gerald Durrell, several of which involve his animal-collecting trips all over the world to obtain creatures for his small zoo in the Channel Islands. This book covers a 6-month collecting trip in Cameroon and his tongue-in-cheek descriptions of his adventures and MISadventures with animals is delightful and had me laughing out loud. I had to google several of the animals having never heard of such creatures as water chevrotains and bushbabies.
British naturalist Gerald Durrell and others travel to Africa on an animal collecting trip in this non-fiction book. He tells some great stories about getting animals and visiting (i.e. drinking) with a local headman. Though he had wanted to use the animals in a zoo in Great Britain, he eventually was able to find property in Jersey - http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Durrell_....
It takes a few chapters to warm up, but after that it's gripping. I read it all in one afternoon. It's not for those who are used to fiction or controllable life tales, but for anyone who is remotely interested in wildlife and conservation it's a must read.
Fun to re-read after decades! Not sure what feels more dated - the innocent enjoyment of pidgin English, or the gifts of cigarettes in exchange for favours :-)Borrowed from Colin
Entertaining, but very very light in the depth department. Good for real brain candy when you don't want to think even a little.
read travelling Indonesia in 1990: http://www.5cense.com/15/404.htm
Every time I see this book, and a few others she gave me, I think of her.Durrell has a great gift for description, for both the animals and the people he meets, as well as the landscape.
(I wonder if it’s “beef” because almost any animal could be a food source?) At any rate, this results in countless animals, many of which he doesn’t want, being captured, some being harmed in the process.
Durrell does seem knowledgeable and wants to care for the animals he’s captured.
And to somewhat defend his actions, the locals who catch these animals would likely have otherwise considered them food.
