https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/262228.O_is_for_Outlaw
Book Review  4 out of 5 stars for O is for Outlaw, the 15th book in the "Kinsey Millhone" mystery series, written in 1999 by Sue Grafton. What an amazing treat for longtime fans of this series with the "O" alphabet book. We've known Kinsey for a long time, but very little about her life before the books began. We met the ex-husband(s), heard a snippet here and there, but we never actually got a lot of details about this wonderful heroine. Well now we do... and more than we'd hoped. When she bu
Book Review
4 out of 5 stars for O is for Outlaw, the 15th book in the "Kinsey Millhone" mystery series, written in 1999 by Sue Grafton.
We've known Kinsey for a long time, but very little about her life before the books began.
We met the ex-husband(s), heard a snippet here and there, but we never actually got a lot of details about this wonderful heroine.
First the book review goes on Goodreads, and then I send it on over to my WordPress blog at https://thisismytruthnow.com, where you'll also find TV & Film reviews, the revealing and introspective 365 Daily Challenge and lots of blogging about places I've visited all over the world.
She makes Kinsey sound older.
She sounds like Kinsey's name should be Judy.
Henry sounds like a much older and more frail sounding man.
Not someone that Kinsey found as an much older bur still very attractive man.
It doesn't sound believable when Kinsey talks about her 3 mile run.
The 2 stories I have heard with new reader Kinsey is doing more of holding her chest as she tries to catch her breath (etc) just because she TALKED ON THE PHONE to someone she didn't like???
Not the old Kinsey.
The old Kinsey was a badass.
The new Kinsey is just well old.
I realized as I was reading this book that it was more out of a commitment to finish the alphabet with Sue Grafton than out of a love for the character.
I feel like the series has been up and down in terms of my interest.
If you are going to start the series - do not read O,P or Q first.
Normally that has me chomping at the bit - but in this series it just felt like too little too late.
We are supposed to believe that this stuff is really meaningful to Kinsey when it hasn't been mentioned for 15 books?!?!
O Is for Outlaw is book fifteen of the Kinsey Millhone series by Sue Grafton.
The readers of O Is for Outlaw would follow Kinsey Millhome investigation to see what happens.
O Is for Outlaw is the first book I have read of Sue Grafton, and I was disappointed with this book.
I did not enjoy the characters of O Is For Outlaw which did not help me to get engaged with this book.
Also, the readers of O Is for Outlaw will learn about being a Private Investigator.
Just because I did not enjoy reading O Is for Outlaw I will still recommend this book.
Kinsey gets a call from a guy who came across some memorabilia from her youth after he purchased the contents of a storage unit at auction.
She finds a old letter that she had never read.
The 15th book in the Kinsey Millhone series.
Kinsey is looking into an old murder, and looking for who shot her ex.A quick read, with a different angle than the other books in this series.
We don't always get much about Kinsey's past, so this one was interesting for that aspect.I listened to an audio version of this book.
It was nice getting back to Kinsey! I really need to get this series completed this year!
I hate it, however, when Sue Grafton has the police involved in a story only to have them bungle everything ridiculously.
It's one thing to have them unable to solve a crime, but to have them behave like keystone cops is just trying my patience.Also - I was saddened when I learned that Mary Peiffer doesn't narrate the rest of the books in the series, but the new narrator, Judy Kaye, did an ok job.
A "storage space scavenger" calls Kinsey Millhone saying that he has items that once belonged to her.
The storage space had been rented by Mickey Magruder, Kinsey's first ex-husband.Kinsey buys a box of items that were originally hers.
From it, Kinsey learns that Mickey had had an affair with Dixie, but that Mickey could not have caused the beating death of a man named Benny Quintero.
Kinsey had left Mickey because she believed that he was guilty.Mickey had resigned from the Santa Teresa Police Department under the cloud of the Quintero scandal.
The novel's three central crimes are neither very interesting nor very believable.
Did I have to know that when the protagonist backed from a parking space, she first turned the key then put the car in reverse?
How 'bout just once she forgets to start the car, puts it in reverse, feels like an idiot, then silently berates herself?
This book could be solely responsible for many housewives' delusions of writing potential.
Upon paying my bill I found I had been eligible for a free loaner car.
Still, most of my rage remains directed at the writer, editor, and publisher responsible for this "book"PS: I love Agatha Christie.
Awesome read! Through 14 books in the series, we never found out anything about Kinsey's first husband, Mickey Magruder. In this 15th book in the series, Kinsey has heard nothing from Mickey and hasn't even thought about him in years. Suddenly her past comes to haunt her when she receives a visit from police informing her that Mickey has been shot and is fighting for his life and she may be a suspect! We go on a suspense-filled journey with Kinsey to find out who shot Mickey.
Grafton always delivers when I need an easy escape read.
Author Sue Grafton knows this, and she seems to be pacing herself through the remainder of the alphabet with developments in Kinsey's love life, revelations about her past, and coming to terms with abandonment issues in the face of new relationships with family members she's only known about for a short time.In N is for Noose, Grafton sweeps Kinsey away from her familiar stomping grounds and the focus is on story and perhaps a bit of personal growth; there's not much for those of us eager to learn more about Kinsey's past.
The novel digs up Kinsey's past, more precisely, an unsolved murder which her ex-husband, Mickey was accused of and which made him resign from the police force and break up with her.
It stared when Kinsey finds an old letter which was meant to be delivered to her, but fate didn't allow it until now.
The letter gives Mickey a perfect alibi.
So when she searches for Mickey to make term with him, she finds that he's been shot and in a coma.
So she conducts her own investigation to find the culprit, who turns up to be the perpetrator of the unsolved murder.
This is my favourite so far of the Alphabet series.
I have read about twenty so far but not in order.
It kept me turning pages wondering where things would and up, unlike some of the other stories that (to me) got bogged down in parts with too lengthy involvements with Henry or Rosie subplots.This story plus the outcome of a couple of her books in the series gave me an idea how she was going to end with Kinsey retiring in "Z"
4 Stars (updated after much thought - 5/1/16)This was a good story, with a lot of missing pieces to the puzzle. Why was her ex-husband shot?? AND...what in the heck does that have to do with Kinsey, 15 years after they were divorced?? She hasn't even seen him in that time. There are many clues as to what is going on, but for the life of me; I could not figure it out until the very end. Sometimes, people are just crazy. It was the least likely place for me to turn. Oh well, good story nonetheless.
While Kinsey is clever, this book is depressing. The central figure, Mickey, has no role other than to lie in bed like a soap opera victim while their contract is renegotiated.
I absolutely love Sue Grafton's character Kinsey Millhone.
Kinsey is a wise-cracking character you love, no matter the dilemma.
We get to learn more about her past.
We learn more about her first husband, which in most of her previous novels is a quick sentence or two.
But now Kinsey gets a phone call that will force her to reexamine her beliefs about their breakup and if he really wasn't a bad cop who killed a man.
I loved the plot and the characters were very engaging.
The box introduces us to a past we know nothing about, her first ex-husband,Mickey and the cause of their failed marriage.
Determined to find the culprit Kingsey finds herself following Mickey's investigative steps, learning more about the fateful event which caused their divorce and just how wrong she had been in refusing to help as she had.
It's painful to read and the ending had my heart aching but I am so happy that this has finally happened.
3. HumourI don't know if this is just me but I've found M is for Malice and this book to be showing a slightly more sarcastic Kinsey, her sense of humour had me chuckling a few times.What I disliked1.
I love Sue Grafton’s book as she follows private eye Kinsey Millhone through the alphabet.
Her books reflect the dying art of private eye mystery books.
Sue Grafton is genius at playing homage to this classic genre while updating it with her heroine Kinsey.
This one is more sentimental than her other books and it suffers because of it.
While I was glad to learn more about Kinsey, it is certainly not Grafton’s strong writing skills.
If you like this series it is probably worth reading but if you want to get into Sue Grafton its best to skip this book.
At least we had a “live” character in this book worth rooting for and so glad Duffy came through for Kinsey in the end.
The last two books before this one didn’t really give me someone besides Kinsey to root for and I found those stories to drag me down.
This book also gave us a side case that was linked but not really part of the overarching plot but Sue Grafton never let it take away from the main story or let Kinsey stray down that path for too long in the book.
It's been years (gulp, decades) since I read Sue Grafton, and in that time I'd forgotten how much I liked Kinsey Millhone. In many ways she's the most realistic of the PIs found in this genre, and she seems especially human now, following the box which inexplicably leads her back into her past from an angle she did not suspect.
Although the plot changes in each book it seems to me to be the same thing over and over. Kinsey Millhone P.I. sticks her nose in places she doesn't belong and thinks the law doesn't apply to her. I am finding that it is harder and harder to continue with each book.
My fave of the Millhone books because she visits my hometown Louisville KY. Grafton is actually from here and for her to have Louisville Male High School in 1985 as a part of the book was so cool. I graduated in 81
I've always enjoyed this series, but it's been a few years since I've read one. I really enjoyed this one; it felt like visiting an old friend I haven't seen in a long time. It's a good read.
A new narrator, but I love her snarky voice. This book takes Kinsey back to her young adulthood...and her first marriage and the Viet Nam war...Kinsey is more reflective and sadder and wiser. Every book is original and compelling.
On the reminder/clarification note though I have been thinking...In 4 years Kinsey has been in mortal danger at least 14 times, shot multiple times, been beat up and assaulted every few months,had her home blown up, been in a few car crashes and totaled her car, been to jail, been under cover, been involved or the cause of multiple people's deaths, killed a few people with nary a peep about it from the cops or the dead person's family, had an affair with a married man, been involved with an on again off again (she said she loved him) PI/bodyguard, reunited with an ex husband briefly, grown jaded, spiteful and judgmental, found a long lost family she wants nothing to do with, lost her favorite job and gained another and has become more like a criminal than the right side of the law person she is supposed to be without going to jail for real for all her law breaking or getting her PI licence taken away.
Grafton says that A is for Alibi began in May 1982, B is for Burglar takes place in June 1982, and C is for Corpse is in August 1982 and so on bringing us to May 1986.In this novel, Kinsey Millhone receives a phone call from a stranger, claiming he has a box salvaged from storage with her mementos in it.
It turns out that the box was put away by her first ex-husband, Mickey Magruder, whom she suddenly walked out on after a very brief marriage and has not spoken to in fourteen years.
RATING: 3.75One of the craftiest things that Sue Grafton has done in the writing of the Kinsey Millhone series is to be miserly about revealing information about Kinsey's past throughout the books.
In O is for Outlaw, Grafton focuses on a part of Kinsey's past that many are very curious about, her first marriage to a cop named Mickey Magruder.Kinsey is approached by a man who buys old auction items or abandoned storage bins and then tries to profit by reselling them.
Parts of the book really dragged and suffered from being overly repetitious.I found it interesting to learn more about Kinsey's past.

There are a lot of characters introduced in this novel as well as the handful of regulars and it is to Ms. Grafton’s credit that I was able to keep track of them as well as I did.One thing I really like about this series is that they continue to take place in the 1980s (this one in 1986) with only a matter of a few months going by between books.
Her first person POV narration is often humorous, sometimes sarcastic, but always insightful, lending her a sort of everyman (everywoman?) approach and helps the reader to be empathetic towards her goals.I continue to read these books at a pace of one per quarter year in order to be at the end of the series at about the time of the expected publication of “Z”.
