https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1914572.Spacehounds_of_IPC
(Some have compared them to Heinlein's omni-competent heroes, and a Wikipedia article mentions a suggestion that it was an influence on Heinlein.)To complicate things, "Spacehounds" may not have been intended as a standalone, and things left inadequately explained or developed may once have had explanations held back for a story yet to be written.The story was serialized in 1931, but with unauthorized changes by the magazine editor, apparently to produce equal-length installments, and, although Smith apparently considered it his best *science* fiction (in accordance with the physics, chemistry, and astronomy of the late 1920s), fans -- urged on by the editor -- wanted more interstellar adventures, like the "Skylark" stories (which reinvented or ignored physics to get interstellar spaceships to their destinations quickly).In response to this editorial treatment, Smith took his next novel, "Triplanetary" (magazine text 1934), with some interstellar elements, to a different market.
Anachronisms aside, this was a pretty engaging listen (I found it as a free podcast from Uvula Audio, who puts out a staggering array of work for both children and adults- check them out at http://www.uvulaaudio.com/).
Then, once they are rescued, the rest focuses on the "war of science" between the various united humanities of the inner planets and the diabolical Hexans, as each attempts to replicate and improve upon the others' weaponry and sensory equipment in a mad race to deal the deathblow to the adversary.The narrator (whose name I can't seem to find) has a truly incredible number of voices with which to portray the multitude of characters.
Aliens, esoteric weapons, physics, romance! A fun, old-fashioned, outer space romp.
Unfortunately this book did not age well.
While the author cannot be blamed for his failure to foresee the internet or the PC or any of the advances that science has since made in understanding the universe, the result is a story that I found very alien in its references to fourth order beams, a habitable Mars and nearly habitable Venus, warrior scientists and humans native to Jupiter's and Saturn's moons.
highly intelligent, physically perfect white male accompanied by a demure, supportive intelligent but submissive white female, is also a little jarring to the modern reader.
I read this after I read the author's 'Lensmen' series, although Spacehounds was written somewhat earlier.
To be honest, I loved all the Lensmen books, and re-read them every so often.
Spacehounds is ...
well, the term 'purple prose' probably fits it best.
However, to be fair, it does reflect the era that it was written in, and SF was very new as a genre.
So, OK, the prose is florid and the writing style is florid and all that, but it does show some writing talent and promise for better things.
The good guys are on a flight to mars when they are attacked and hijacked by some otherwise unknown inhabitants of the solar system.
These newfound baddies are residents of Jupiter, and the scourge of the various races inhabiting the Jovian and Saturn's moons.
Everyone gangs up together and puts the baddies in their place.This story happens earlier in the timeline of Smith's universe.
Later in the Smith timeline, such as the Lensman stories, the residents of Tellus have made contact with races outside of the solar system and across our galaxy.
Spacehounds of IPC was one of the first Doc Smith novels I read as a younger man and it called out to the space opera fan in me. I credit it for starting me down the path of lighthearted space adventure that I still enjoy to this day. As a stand alone novel it does not require the time it takes with the lensmen novels, and is a very enjoyable read.
Read on LibriVox (free audio books in the public domain).
What an imagination Doc Smith must have had add to that an obviously incurable romantic as well as a gifted story teller ; he is fast becoming a contender for my favourite author of the 20th century.
They are separate books, not part of Smith’s two long Skylark and Lensman series, and although not strictly linked, they do share a common vision of Earth’s future.
Idealised heroes and villains utter pithy stereotyped lines in improbable settings – but they do so with great energy and excitement, and it is easy to get caught up in the swing of the tales and emerge at the far end slightly breathless.Well worth reading by those interested in tracing the development of science fiction through the years, or else anyone who wants a space-based yarn without needing believable dialogue, and who is not troubled by recent scientific findings.
This is old school pulp sci-fi in its rawest sense.
The plot is quite fun, totally unrealistic, and really the main reason one reads these old pulp novels anyway.
The rest of the story describes how the brave men of Earth help the helpless men of Titan overcome the enemy that is the monsters of Jupiter, with the help of the men of Venus and the men of Mars.
The story isn't really enough fun to make it worth pushing through the bad writing.
Bombastic does not even begin to describe it.There is hardly one single line of dialogue, especially between the two protagonists, that is not overflowing with cheesy epiteths like "ace of my bosom", "my little dove" and other rather ridiculous exclamations.The story isn't so bad.
There is hardly one single page in which any one character does not say "all x!" and an overabundance of exclamation marks.I've read a lot of authors from the 20's, and none of them were ever this horribly cheesy.
Ususally the Doc Smith books are bad science, good fiction.
And I REALLY wanted to like this book, as I think of myself as a fan of pulp sci-fi...
But this was just SO bad I couldnt find anything redeeming about it.
The science was of course badly dated, and embellished badly, even for the time it was written in.
And I think I got my fill of "All X" (or some minor variant) by page 50, but it didnt keep it from showing up 3 times a page till the end.
I rate this book 1 star, and that's being generous by allowing for the era in which it was written.
It starts with whole pages of dialogue and discourse from the main male protagonist in an attempt to tell the story.
It assumes the reader is stupid so he has to show how smart he is by boasting to the main female protagonist about how much he knows.
Then, as EE 'Doc' Smith progresses into the story it becomes lazy and he resorts to pages of description using similes; but similes of the era!
Ridiculous book.
Observations so far: Contrary to popular belief, Smith is pretty accurate in his portrayal of chicks.
I think some people have some skewed perceptions about girls, especially the silly jades in Smith's books.
The first mistake folks like you usually make is thinking that any of this has anything to do with reality.
Your second mistake may be believing that anyone's impressed by your sensitivity toward fictional characters.
Your third mistake may be thinking that women can't handle this book and need to be warned about it or that men need to be appropriately chastened for enjoying it.
Badly, badly dated.If you enjoy Star Trek you should know that Roddenbery owes a great debt to E.E. Smith, and Star Wars owes more to him than it ever did to Joseph Campbell.Having said that .
Space ships have VERY thick armor to protect themselves from meteors.Yet there are tractor beams, presser beams, force fields, and other inventions that are the stuff of classic space opera.A modern reader would be disappointed in this book, especially the love story.
Someone who believes in abstinence-only sex education might even have second thoughts after reading it.Smith's Lensmen novels hold up better than this.
For me, it's the archetype of the planetary adventure story. It has heroes (and even a heroine, of course properly deferential to her hero, but quite able to kick butt otherwise), technobabble, alien cultures (the running commentary on the boxing match between 10-armed aliens is fantastic) and all kinds of space ships, force planes, and cosmic energy. Not a "good book", but a book that entertainingly manages to represent a whole genre. It's also out of copyright and available for free from Project Gutenberg (http://www.gutenberg.org/ebooks/20857) and even LibriVox (https://librivox.org/spacehounds-of-i...).
This is classic Space Opera from the genre creator, E.E."Doc" Smith). It hooked me right away, when the crew are bitching about management riding their ass to keep interplanetary space trips on schedule +-30 seconds. Fantasizing about how much easier it would be if they could afford a computer on each ship. Travel between planets - no problem. Buying a computer for each ship - whoa let's not get crazy futuristic here :)
If you don't like classic SciFi you won't like this. If you do, it is vintage gold. As usual "Doc" Smith uses the full range of the English language while being dated in some of his slang. His cultural concepts will jar modern sensibilities as well and yet many of his concepts would have jarred his time as well. Read it, enjoy it.
If you want an exciting space adventure this is worth a read. The attitudes are certainly dated and the writing is very flowery which may grate with some readers. The astronomical knowledge is out of date and the science is speculative, based on outdated theories, but it is a fast moving and exciting story and if you can cope with all its faults it is good fun to read.
Well, here's the straight dope. The solar system is way smaller than we once thought... Mars, Venus, the moons of Jupiter and Saturn are inhabited and just being explored. A woman finds that there is nothing more sexy than a burly physicists. Landing one of them is "all X".Spacehounds of IPC is not E.E. doc Smith's best work but it is good pre-Campbell Jr. sf fun.
"Doc" E. E. Smith is, if you enjoy S.F. and its history, required reading. His prose isn't exceptional and his plot-lines are often predictable. However, the reading is good, (squeaky) clean fun and shows the scientific optimism of early S.F. writers well. Pick up a copy next time you have a plane or car trip. It's a great way to leisurely pass the time.
Quaint and very dated, but an enjoyable tale of derring do in space. Interesting to see an analogue view of technology from a digital world perspective. Also thie beginnings of attempts at a more equal relationship between male and female heroes compared with the current takes from stories such as Hunger Games.
Not really the best SF I have read and unfortunately it comes off as being very dated and unrealistic. I seem to recall enjoying his other stories when I was younger but this is the first one I have read in years and doesn't inspire me to re-read any of his other books.
Nostalgia makes this book worth re-reading for me and nostalgia makes it, for me, not entirely un-entertaining. There's not a lot to commend this book to the modern reader who would be approaching it anew with no baggage.
Classis pulp science fiction from the master of old fashioned space opera.
Great sci-fi book. Recommend it to others.
Old school Space Opera series written by the doyen of space opera writes - style and content a bit dated now but still an ok read
not his best book, but I liked it
This light-hearted Space Opera is said to be E. E. Smith's most realistic novel. That isn't saying much, but it's a lot of fun.
