https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6760818-skylark
You know how there are a whole bunch of really ugly truths about life that we generally just brush off or lie to ourselves about?
What propriety and compassion tacitly forbid me to think or to say is that he's ugly or revolting, that he'll probably have a lonely life, that he'll be stared at everywhere he goes, that many of his relationships with other people will be corrupted by pity.
It centers on an aging couple living with their unattractive spinster daughter (nicknamed Skylark) in a provincial city in Hungary in 1899.
But when it is someone's life, someone's very existence that disappoints, then that small thing crushes.The set-up of  Skylark is fairly well smathered in the book description and elsewhere that I won't be plot-spoiling to tell you that the eponymous character is an un-handsome daughter.
Skylark returns, dressed in black oilskin against the rain, carrying a pigeon in a cage.
It made me think of the universality of the story, how parents may want their children to be one thing when they are instead another.
A small thing, a disappointment; unless you are the pigeon in the cage.
I laughed at the drunken “ride” in the chair, at the father’s confrontation with a man he’d hoped would wed his daughter, the funny title headings, and at many exchanges between the couple.
The story is about a couple and their 35-year old unmarried daughter, Skylark, who is their life's focus and its albatross.
Significantly the father’s only pastime is studying genealogy, as his own family tree is about to stop branching.Skylark’s ugliness comes across almost as a disability, as when we first encounter her in the garden in the posture that is “best” for her, or when she walks flanked by her parents.
who had been drinking wine, or champagne, or schnapps, and how much of each had been consumed by whom; and finally who had been sick and how many times.
For in Sarszeg this served as the surest measure of a good time.
Yesterday some had even been sick three times.
These enjoyed an exceptionally good night.So anyway, a short, bleak, bitter novel if that is your poison.
I think we may agree that Samuel Beckett is the gold standard of bleakness, so 7.5 on the Beckett scale.
There should be a bleakness rating on the back of books I think.
The three main characters in this superb novel - a mother, father and daughter - have, somehow, expunged all joy from their lives and I believe that all the three of them are, in different ways, complicit in their mutual suffocation.
It appears to suit Skylark to cling to this way of living because there is no risk and no expectation that anything will change (a comfort given that the change she would most like to come about, is very unlikely to occur).
To have felt like that, only to be returned to the inescapable reality of her life was, it seems, judged by her parents to have been a horrible act of cruelty.
Don’t get me wrong, I am not at all under the impression that I am a very handsome man, but I cannot, nevertheless, relate to those who, like my friend, are so self-conscious about their appearance that they hide themselves away, and run from life until all that is left of it is a small black dot in the distance; and yet I can empathise, of course.How awful to be Tom, to be Skylark.There are a number of novels featuring undervalued ‘plain Jane’ types – Austen’s Persuasion, for example – but Dezső Kosztolányi leaves us in no doubt that his creation is, in fact, a strikingly unattractive woman.
The Vajkays, mother, father and their grown daughter Skylark live in Sarszek, Hungary in the yaw 1899.
The parent are in thrall with their beloved daughter despite the fact that she is homely, on the shelf, and controlling.
At first the parents are lost without the imposed routine set by Skylar but then....Well you will just have to read this short, wonderfully constructed book.
A book that shows how little we actually know of the wants and desires of those who inhabit the some house.
I was very surprised by how much I enjoyed this little book.
Such is the alchemy that author Dezso Kosztolanyi works in "Skylark," and being subject to its effects was a wonderful experience; the climactic scene, in which Akos confronts a deep well of misgivings and guilt, had me riveted.Probably this story can be analyzed in a variety of contexts--the eve of the 20th Century; the changing face of the Hungarian state; the uncertainty prevalent in Europe between the wars, etc--and, probably, I am lazy reader for being (quite) content with a literal perspective.
When this adventurous streak had its moment, "Skylark" sunk in deep and took me along.
Beyond being a lovely mirror of the inhabitants from a particular time and place, this Skylark, cloaked in a provincial Hapsburg Empire town at the turn of the century, is a multi-layered parable on Ugliness.
Yes, don’t get lost, if you ask me this book is first and foremost about being-unto-death.
Yes, I think there is something about all of this in the book, probably something innately Hungarian.
Then a part of the Austro-Hungarian Empire, Subotica is now a part of Serbia.
It is one of my very favorite towns in all of Europe with its delicious Hapsburg architecture eclipsing time and the wonderful parks, cemeteries, and street lanterns that hark back to the 19th century.
Skylark is a woman in her mid-30's, an "old maid", living with her mother and father.
However, her presence is felt in her absence: we see just how this family is tied together, and how easily it falls apart; mother and father seem not to live but to be carried along by their re-enforced beliefs and daily patterns.
For a while, Skylark almost seems like the parent here, and mother and father are like the kids who are cautiously experimenting with 1.
But you really feel for them, they are so pathetic, and so sad, but wanting happiness desperately.The rest of the town is not any better.

This can also be said of Mother and Father, the parents in “Skylark” whose daughter, Skylark (obviously), breaks normality by visiting her uncle for a week in Hungarian master author Deszo Kosztolanyi’s novel.
Basically, some meaning may be lost to those outside of Hungarian knowledge circles but regardless, the book is still powerful.Kosztolanyi’s writing is unique with intelligent prose supplemented with hints of humor which keeps the pace steady and the plot moving.
Mother and Father begin to live and experience life in a way they don’t allow themselves in the presence of their daughter.
Everyday life mundane.
And you know what, everyday life is fun.
Everyday life of other people, of different people, of different times and different cultures.
Because normal people can be interesting.
And a writer as good as Kosztolányi can bring out that interesting part to the fore and make you enjoy living the excitement-free lives of his prosaic characters.
So yeah, while Kosztolányi here is only writing about ordinary life he's writing about it in such a penetrating and humorous way that he turns the ordinary into extraordinary and the dull into entertaining.
I thought this was a beautifully written, delightful story. I'm also assuming that the translation must be excellent. I had already decided to give the book 5 stars before I came to the final part of it. The final part was incredibly moving (and made me sad) and I keep thinking about it. The result is that, if it was possible to give more than five stars, I would do so.
Mostly uneventful, but extra star because it touched me little in the last 50 pages :/
The aging Vajkays have one lone child, a 35-year-old girl whom they call Skylark.
After one of their outings, they run into the local journalist and would-be poet, through whose eyes we see the Vajkays as if in a flash:He could hear rummaging from inside the house, the old couple preparing for rest.
At such times Miklos Ijas [the poet/journalist] was 'working.'He stood for some minutes before the gate with all the patience of a lover waiting for the appearance of his beloved.
It is hard to think of a more imaginative summing up of a life.Eventually, Skylark returns to Sarszeg.
Interesantă. Foarte interesantă. Şi tristă. Şi, pe final, cutremurătoare.Mi-a reamintit ce se întâmplă atunci când iubeşti prea mult, iar obiectul dragostei tale ajunge, treptat-treptat, să îţi controleze viaţa, să o ajusteze conform propriilor dorinţe şi nevoi. Până când n-o mai recunoşti.Dar ce se întâmplă dacă, la un moment dat, scapi de sub influenţa bunului tiran? E suficientă oare o săptămână pentru a te bucura de libertate? Şi, dacă da, cu câte remuşcări?
Sometimes, the truth hurts.
Set in Hungary at the turn of the twentieth century, Skylark is the story of a family: father, mother, and daughter.
They live together in the family home on a ramshackle street in a provincial town.
But soon they experience a giddy sense of freedom from constraint.Kosztolányi gives us the poignant inside story of a family outwardly content.
The deep home-truths revealed in this novel involve all of us, especially those of us who have ever felt a sense of freedom and release simultaneously with fear and distress when a loved one leaves us home alone.
An old couple's spinster daughter goes away for a week for the first time. The couple are devastated at first but gradually discover pockets and then entire landscapes of color and joy in "unnecessary" experiences such as going to the opera and eating at a restaurant - so much so that they dare wonder if they are actually happier without her. This is painful and rings with honesty as it explores the taboo questions, what would your life be without your children? And might it actually be better? And when your child returns, how does/can the old pallid life resume?
Ha a szereplők gondolatait akarta volna bemutatni, vagy azt, ők hogyan élték meg azt, ami történt, jobban tetszett volna, ha ezt az ő szájukba, vagy "fejükbe" adja (gondolatként), nem pedig mint mesélő ír ilyen stílusban.- ez utóbbi már nem a regény hibája, de egyszerűen nem tudom élvezni a kártyajátékokról készült többoldalas leírásokat.
Minden tűpontosan volt ábrázolva - attól kezdve, hogy mindenkit, aki egy kicsit is kedves a lányukhoz, potenciális udvarlónak néznek, és örök életre szóló haragot esküdnek ellenük (ráadásul úgy, hogy nem is beszélik ezt meg az adott emberrel), ha rájönnek, hogy nem akarnak Pacsirtától semmit (pedig azok nem is áltatták, csak udvariasak voltak vele)...
My first ever read from NYRB Classics.SKYLARK is the story of the Vajkays–there’s mother, father, and fat and ugly spinster daughter Skylark.
The elder Vajkays try to cope–Skylark has not been away from home this long before–and it’s all a staggering loss.
And, well, maybe, just maybe, they’re really liking how things are going, sans-Skylark.
Writers I’ll grow to love.And then, what I most love about this book: The story not told, the story that is Skylark’s.
For example, the first shred of emotion we see in Skylark–the first interesting thing Skylark did–it had to do with tears.
This Skylark is in her mid-30s, lives with her parents and spends her time making “lovely tablecloths and doilies”.
The story spans a single week in which Skylark leaves town to visit relatives and her parents experience untold liberties.
Or is it resentment?It’s interesting to note that while the story centers on Skylark she remains effectively off-stage for over 90% of it.
He had never really understood women, but knew only too well that his daughter was ugly.” Or the description of her sole suitor: “He had at one time undoubtedly met with the Vajkays’ highest approval.
They could never have wished their daughter a more appropriate suitor.
After the sad ending, I couldn't help that Skylark and her parents could have reached some sort of reconciliation with the way they unconciously coddle each other-if they just talked it through.
Admitting (as a "grown-up) you still don't know what you're doing (or how to change it if you do know) is probably emotionally tantamount to walking around bare arsed in public on a school day in UK 2012.Every character in this book is older than me by at least a decade, but of them all I felt closest to the repressed, anguished father, who is pushing 60.
There were a couple of things I didn't quite understand about some of the characters.
Nothing much happens - an old couple and their adult daughter live together in some kind of counter-protecting dependency in a small village in Hungary in the year 1899.
Each side is trying to protect the other from realizing that their lives never really started.
The daughter, for the first time ever, visits distant relatives, and in that one week the stalemate evaporates.What happens here in so little story is psychologically so well-drawn, and so finely structured - if you've ever walked past a house with the lights on and voices coming from inside and you've felt nothing but sadness and thought "is this it?", then this book is for you.
صدمة النهاية أفقدتني القدرة على التعبير و أعتقد أن إلتزام الصمت هو الأفضل في هذه الحالة.
I cheered for him when he finally gave in and began ordering new things left and right.One of the main things that came across to me in the book is how much Skylark's parents felt responsible for her and her happiness.
On the other hand, that might have been just what Skylark needed to jump start her life and try to be something other than the epitome of an old maid.My impression of this book seems to change each time I think about it.
I guess I like to think that her week away made her realize what a rut she was in, and how great was the need to change things up.
My favorite moment for this is when "Editor Ijas" is outside the Vajkays' home and reflecting on truly knowing other people, but what happens after Skylark returns home is also incredibly memorable."What stagnant, primal depths of pain could be disturbed by just a couple of words.""He (Miklos Ijas) could see quite clearly before him the wretched rooms, where suffering collected like unswept dust in the corners, the dust of lives in painful heaps, piled up over many long years.""The only love he knew was that of divine understanding, of taking a whole life into his arms, stripping it of flesh and bone, and feeling into its depths as if they were his own.
What sadness.
What melancholy.
What judgement.
What desire to be something other than what one is.
It is, after all, the story of a vacation which is, so often, the story of a family discovering itself as the bonds of the everyday are broken and replaced by new possibilities.
And that is what happens here.
And the deep sadness that glues this family together is revealed in the process (how we wouldn't suspect it when it begins, either!).
I could see this happening in Hungary near the turn of the twentieth century; I could see it clearly.
The couple has always depended on their daughter, Skylark, to be there and run things and take care of them, and they're at a bit of a loss after Skylark goes to visit relatives for a week.
However, once Skylark comes back you get the impression that things are just going to return to the way they were.This wasn't my kind of book, but it wasn't bad.
The father in the story visibly gained weight, then lost it and returned to being gaunt by the end of the book.
