https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/242652.The_Year_of_Decision_1846
This book and its predecessors 'The Course of Empire' and 'Across the Wide Missouri' are must reads for anybody interested in pre-Civil War American History. The author, Bernard DeVoto, presents profound and astute analysis grounded in in-depth research and encyclopedic knowledge of subject, free from political correctness, in a very readable, straight-forward, and no-nonsense manner. You might agree or disagree with his conclusions but you won't question his integrity.
My father knew his great grandmother well - distinct and complex memories; she arrived with Sam Brannan in San Francisco in 1846 on the ship Brooklyn whose contents doubled the Euro population of SF.
He believes that this expansion and enlargement of the free states (as the West had to be) was the final nail in the coffin of the atavistic South.i went with 4 stars (instead of five) because i hate reading the detailed accounts of battles - so it may be an unfair star denial.
Hastings was worse - in fact Hastings was the reason the Donners are a permanent part of the West's history.
****1/2.This study of America’s western history is probably my favorite history book.
DeVoto wrote a trilogy of books exploring this subject, for one of which he won the Pulitzer Prize.
In this volume, he selected the year 1846 as the pivotal year for America’s expansion to the Pacific Ocean.
If you have any interest at all in how America won the west, this is a must-read book.
There’s nothing wrong with that, as long as we have a choice of reading those bits or not.
I’ve always thought that this book would be an excellent basis for a semester’s course on Western History.
James K. Polk may just be my favorite president. And we did NOT steal it. We won it in a fair fight. Get over it, losers!
This guy could write history. You might think it is out dated but put him on you history shelf.
This was a fun book to read, like sitting around the campfire listening to stories of the old West. DeVoto relies on first hand stories and tales to explain that decisions made in 1846 led to the Civil War. Much like Juan dos Passos, he tells of events occurring at the same time on the frontier.
De Voto's project is to examine, explore, and explain what happened to America in A.D. 1846, and he does an excellent job of it, from the politicians in Washington, to the army in Mexico, the Mormons fleeing Missouri, and of course the Donner Party descending to cannibalism on the verge of California.
I object to this, of course, on the grounds that it's racist, but also because, in terms of De Voto's own project, it's a catastrophic failure.
He's so carefully concerned to pay attention to what people's motives were, both the politicians and the pioneers, the Mormons and Zachary Taylor and everyone in between, but with the Indians, he doesn't even try.
Sludgy. Great content, fusty prose that kept mucking it up. Great for its time, no doubt, but now a museum piece...
Authoritative, even magisterial, DeVoto's book is also perhaps the most challenging thing I've read in years. It's dense, convoluted and requires a fairly deep understanding of Western history and literature to make any sense at all. But it's an absorbing, rich snapshot of the most important single year of our history (here in California), an insanely ambitious project that I can compare only to "The Education of Henry Adams" and Morris's "Pax Britannica" trilogy.
The book is thick 500 pg read set up in chapters that cover every major player from J.k. Polk to John C.
The book does a great job in explaining why, for example, General Kearney, who conquered New Mexico, Chihuhua, Arizona and eventually claimed California for the US with a few hundred troops, has been virtually forgotten while a scoundrel like John C Freemont has hero status 150 years later.
The most interesting for me were the chapters covering the Donner-Fraser-Reed party and there disaster.
The Donner party chapters wereinteresting becuase in my case I have always heard the generic stories but never the details of the story and what led up to it was spellbinding.
I found this book in a used book store and it jumped off the shelf at me.
Mine is the original published in 1942, a hardback with the dustcover and I just loved it!
It is a long read at 500+ pages, but it was so much of so many different histories that I have learned put together.
It was the year the War with Mexico was started (during which my great-great grandfather spent a year in the Army), tells of the Donner party (I have read a lot about that and been to the memorial on Donner pass), tells of Fort Sutter (in Sacramento, where I visited when my daughter lived there), and of the first party of Mormon pioneers to get to the Salt Lake Valley (a story I have heard much about, being Mormon and living in Salt Lake).
Useful, but tedious. Read a Polk bio or "Let the Sea Make A Noise", by Walter McDougall.
Solid (and bulky) history of the events affecting the West in the decisive year of 1846. The book reads as if we acquired California and Oregon mostly by luck. The "leaders" come off very badly. Such a partisan approach makes for lively reading, but also makes one question the truth of what is being sold. There is fascinating detail on the Mormon emigration, and the hardships of the emigrants to Oregon and California. The book is at its strongest in capturing the tribulations of those either marching to fight the Mexicans, or traveling the Oregon trail.
First rate historyDeVoto has written an unsurpassed history of 1846 and that year's momentous effects on the making of the USA. He gives the best description of wagon trains I've encountered. The politics and forces of the times are richly described and explained. The Mexican War about which few Americans know much is given its just due. Polk, Taylor, Winfield Scott, and the Donners flesh out this cast of characters it would be hard to make up. Pardon the 'flesh' pun near the Donners.
Brilliant study of the growth of the western United States. The Mexican War, the Mormons leaving Illinois under Joseph Smith. President James Polk. American becoming a country moving toward the Civil War. It is all here. Wonderful read.
Yesterday or todayWhat is similarity the politics of 1846 for the politics now . It's really something to see how the expansion was secret and many of the items in the book were never displayed or talked about in my history classes.
Inspires many conflicting emotions. It's an engrossing history that weaves together the major events of the year to give an impressive picture of the evolving country, but it's marred by DeVoto's deep contempt for Native Americans and his occasionally haughty, run-on prose.
Very lively writing by this celebrated scholar and columnist. As a Canadian I was especially interested in the events surrounding the settlement of the Oregon boundary dispute, recounted in detail.
nor the creation in newsprint of a great public hero, is an invention of our age, which has not seen any betterment of the technique that erected [John C.] Fremont into a martyr ...
You remembered being harsh to him, in the unforgivable stupidity of parenthood.
So in Georgia you watched the upland where he had hunted squirrels turn brown with autumn, or in Ohio you saw the cows come in at milking time in still evening with someone else whistling to his dog.
..."Georgia or Ohio, as day was added to day, you were tugged at by forces subtler, more complex, more powerful, and more lasting than personal grief.
On my shelf for far too long unread, I am so grateful that a good friend finally insisted that I drop whatever else was on the list and that I get to it.
A partial list of key parties and places becomes already overwhelming:- The Donner party and its rescuers, the heroic and the the weak;- President Polk's emergence as the leader towards Manifest Destiny through a contrived war and international land grab;- John C.
In all thoroughness, Mr. DeVoto narrates in harrowing details the 'Ordeal of Hunger' that the Donner party went through; and justly pays homage to the courage of those who volunteered to go rescue them, against all odds.He goes at great length to demonstrate the contribution of the protagonists of 'The Manifest Destiny' to bringing California into an expansive, continental nation, as envisioned by Polk: Leavenworth, Fremont, Clark, Sutter, Buchanan, Vallejo, Fulton, Geary....whose names have been given to some of the main Streets of San Francisco.Mr. DeVoto concludes that the transformation of the nation, spawned by the Manifest Destiny, and set forth in 1846, would inevitably lead to the Civil War.To complement my interest in better understanding the period and the experience in linking the Old West to the Far West , I have read 'Roughing it' by Mark Twain, who recalls his first overland journey by stagecoach, from Independence, MO, to Sacramento, via SLC, UT.
I read this book for book club.
It is a challenging read, being that it was written in the 1940s.
But it is a very fascinating read, about a time in American history that is not very well known.
It was great, for example, to learn about the presidency of Polk.
I now know that he was quite a president, and that he did a great deal to affect the future of the United States.
In particular, he is the one responsible for obtaining Texas, California and Oregon for the United States.
I also learned about the Mormons, and the early migrations of settlers across the United States.
I read this in college.
Borrowed my parents' copy from 1943 or some such year.He was so thorough.
Did anything happen in 1846 that he didn't cover?
Probably not.Possibly a little too thorough when it came to the details of the Donner Party.
That part was just revolting.
To find out real details of what starvation can drive people to.
But when, I think it was John Reade, was walking off, determined to get to civilization or freeze in the process, I just wanted to yell at the rest of the party - "go with him!

It might have been a great book 70 years ago, but now it's not. Too opinionated for a good history. Leaves out an important part of the Mormon March into California and too biased with respect to individuals he likes and doesn't like. Not sorry I read it. I needed a good laugh and an understanding of how history was written 70 years ago.
An older style of writing, to be sure... Written during WWII ... But well worth the effort. Get past the writing style and get to the meat of this ... It is a wealth of information, and a fascinating story that begins to make the reasons for the Civil war comprehensible ...
If you're the type of person who likes short stories about heroes of the Old West, this book is not for you. Very detailed discussions about the Donner Party, the Mexican War, and the acts that led to Sowing The Seeds of The Civil War.
The book that gave me the basis for my thesis. I owe it all to this little blue book.
Read this one a long time ago and just started to read it again. Fascinating stuff.
Very informative and entertaining as well.
