https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/23617943-all-summer-in-a-day
One of Bradbury's best short stories, this one came to be re-printed often as it is imaginative, poignant and still fun to read. Taking the premise that the characters of the story are on a planet where it rains constantly, and the sun shines in only one day, revealing instantly blossoming plants, and equally blooming spirits of the children, the images Bradbury creates become archetypal for his brand of narrative. Short and sweet, just like the flowers on Venus, this is one of Bradbury's best, high praise for the author of so many brilliant short works of fiction.
Such an unusual and beautiful combination of science fiction and fable. Ray Bradbury has such a gift with words, and while I certainly enjoyed and appreciated the message of the text, I still feel as if there was still too much left unsaid.
But then they always awoke to the tatting drum, the endless shaking down of clear bead necklaces upon the roof, the walk, the gardens, the forest, and their dreams were gone.“All Summer in a Day” is a short story that will appeal to many, including children as young as the story’s characters.
My “All Summer in a Day” Haiku:Spend fifteen minutesWith this sci-fi short storyOutside in the sun.Note: Readers looking for this story in print form can find it in this anthology: https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6...
Note 2: A t.v. short based on the story came out in 1982: http://www.imdb.com/title/tt0195517/?...
Yes, we can take supplements with our food to keep our bodies "healthy" but even I who do not like hot summers would get grumpy without the sun.So this is the story of humans living on Venus and a class of schoolchildren who actively experience sun for the first time.
And it's the story of one of those children who is different because she was born and lived on Earth.It's a story about longing, cruelty, depression, sadness and it makes the reader appreciate the perfect conditions we are living in here on our Blue Marble.
همه و همه بینظیر بوددوستانِ گرانقدر، بخشی از این داستانِ کوتاه را برایتان در زیر نوشته امبچه ها همه نه سالشان بود....( بچه هایی که با خانواده از زمین به سیارۀ ناهید نقل مکان کرده اند ) از آخرین باری که «خورشید» یک ساعتی خودش را به دنیایِ حیرت زدۀ آنها نشان داده بود، هفت سال میگذشت و طبعاً هیچ کدام از بچه ها آن روز را به خاطر نمی آورد...
حتی درباره اش داستان، مقاله و شعر نوشته بودندخورشید مثل یک گل است که تنها برای ساعتی میشکفدامیدوارم از خواندنِ این داستانِ کوتاه لذت ببریدپیروز باشید و ایرانی
This short story still moves me unbearably, more than 20 years after I first read it. All the more powerful for things left unsaid.Available to read online here.
I read this back in grade 6 I think, and I remember how sad I felt for Margot.
So I know your thinking Bradbury for a five year old?
But my kid loves space, obsessed with space, but not Star Trek space, for reals space.Ronans birthday cake this year
So we start reading about children who live on Venus and it has been raining for 7 years.
(it does not say masks anywhere)Ronan: is it acid rain?
*Quick note- Ronan has read every Franklin story there is, if a talking turtle who is friends with a bear is not ridiculous then.........
I think the sun is a flower,That blooms for just one hour. Imagine living on a planet where you get to glimpse the sun for only one or two hours every seven years. The rest of the time you only get rain and massive thunderstorms. And now imagine you are a 9 years old child who remembers what it's like living under the clear blue sky.I suppose I can take sad stories as long as they are very short.Available online.*Read this for our May Short Story Month Marathon, a personal challenge during whic
I think the sun is a flower,That blooms for just one hour.
Imagine living on a planet where you get to glimpse the sun for only one or two hours every seven years.
The rest of the time you only get rain and massive thunderstorms.
And now imagine you are a 9 years old child who remembers what it's like living under the clear blue sky.I suppose I can take sad stories as long as they are very short.Available online.*Read this for our May Short Story Month Marathon, a personal challenge during which Sandra and I will be going through our short story collection.
I loved how Ray Bradbury used kids to talk about nuanced emotions, because their impact can only be fully understood when one is older.
This story could be read and enjoyed by kids the age of Margot and older folks equally.
It was sad to see how Margot was treated by bullies in her class, because she was different and knew something the others didn't.
I loved how he meshed sci-fi with fable and the outcome is stunning.
Finally, as the story invokes strong emotions in the reader, the 'unsaid' evokes even stronger feelings - of guilt and remorse leading to introspection.
Awesome little story.
Loved it.
Ray Bradbury passed away Tuesday night, and his grandson had this to say about the author's work: "...his stories lifted people up and saved them from lonely summers. Who among us was never buried deep in a Bradbury story, lost in his meticulously yet effortlessly crafted metaphor?" (i09)In four pages, All Summer In A Day speaks eloquently about hope, power, cruelty and injustice. Or in other words, people can be jerks and life isn't always fair.
I read this story many years ago, when I was still just a child.
My heart screamed with fear and horror when I read this story....
We could talk forever about this very debatable topic, and I'd really rather not begin wars, but discussions.I grew from reading this story, no matter what set of mind it tried to throw me into.
Though it taught me, and taught me with the least pain possible--I am glad to have read such a story.
I think you'll be surprised by how amazing a story a few pages can make.
It has been raining for 7 years and the scientist predicted that the Sun will come up that day for two hours.
They don't remember the Sun so they don't really know what to expect, but one girl, a nine year old Margot, knows and she craves it more than any of the other children.I think the sun is a flower,That blooms for just one hour.Can we even begin to imagine how she feels?
Those children surely can't.Or couldn't....But they do afterwards.So sad.The story is available here.There's also a 30 minute TV adaptation that you can see on Youtube.
აბსოლუტურად ყველა მოთხრობა არის ძალიან კარგი. ვერც კი გამოვყოფ რომელიმეს, ძალიან მაღალი დონისაა ყველა და ძალიან ვისიამოვნე თითოეულით.და კიდევ ერთი:ბრედბერი არ არის მხოლოდ ძალიან მაგარი ფანტასტი, ბრედბერი საოცარი და ძალიან მაღალი დონის ლიტერატორია, რომელსაც რომელ ჟანრშიც არ უნდა ეწერა, მაინც ძალიან მაგარი იქნებოდა და ეს კრებულიც ამას ცხადყოფს.
Ray Bradbury broke my heart in four pages. Poor Margot, kids can be such assholes sometimes.Available online many places; Here's one of them.
Kids can be the most cruel creature sometimes. I don't even bother to write anything else.
One of the children, Margot, moved to Venus from Earth five years earlier, and she is the only one in her class to remember sunshine, since the Sun shone regularly on Earth.
Though abstract, Margot represents one version of an immigrant story.At the conclusion of the story, the children who were once hypercritical of Margot begin to arrive at an understanding of what she has been feeling since arriving in Venus.
It is not until they spend time outside, basking in the sunlight, that they begin to comprehend how much Margot sacrificed when she moved from Ohio to Venus.This development in the story highlights a broader theme of ignorance and its presence and absence throughout the story.
მგონი რეიმ სიცოცხლის 91 წელი სხვა სამყაროში გაატარა და ალბათ ძალიან ბევრი ღამე გაათენა მომავალზე ფიქრში და იმაზე, რომ სხვა პლანეტაზე არსებობენ ადამიანები, ან თუნდაც სხვა სულიერი არსებები, რომლესბსაც ერთ დღეს აუცილებლად დავუკავშირდებით *.*
I think I may have to read everything by Bradbury now.
მოკლედ, ეს დიდი არაფერი პრობლემაა,მაშინ როცა წერის მანერა ზოგან ისეთი უხეში,გაუთლელი და ხელოვნურია,რომ კითხვას აუტანელს ხდის,განსაკუთრებით ეს იმ შემთხვევებში ხდება,თუკი ცდილობს ხუთგვერდიან მოთხრობაში უზღვავი რაოდენობით ინფორმაცია ჩადოს ახალ სამყაროებზე თუ მისტიკაზე,და რა თქმა უნდა თითქმის ყოველთვის ასე იქცევა(ალბათ ამ მხრივ ყველაზე მძიმედ ქარის ამბავი იკითხება).ამავე დროს სხვაგან,როცა აქცენტი ახალ თემაზე გადააქვს,ისეთი ბუნებრივი ხდება რომ შეუძლებელია შემჩნეულმა მეტამორფოზამ არ გაგაკვირვოს.
ბოლო პრობლემა,რომელმაც ყველაზე მეტად გამანაწყენა,ის შემკვრელი,დამამთავრებელი ფრაზა,წინადადება თუ მონაკვეთია, რომელიც ავტორის მთავარ სათქმელს გვამცნობს და შექმნილ ემოციას საბოლოოდ ამძაფრებს,შემთხვევებში ისეთი არაადეკვატურია,რომ აღნიშნული ეფექტის მაგივრად,ლამის მთელი კითხვის სიამოვნება გააქროს(განსაკუთრებით ეს ეხება ყინვის და ცეცხლის მოთხრობას,რომელიც კრებულში ვფიქრობ ისტორიით ყველაზე უნიკალურია.მაგრამ როგორ ვთქვა ბოლომდე არ წაკითხვა,როცა ერთი სული გაქვს პერსონაჟების ბედი გაიგო).განკუთვნილ ემოციურ ეფექტს არაჩვეულებრივად აღწევს 3 გვერდიან მოთხრობაში "აკვედუკი",რომელიც სხვებთან შედარებით მეტად მომცროა,მაგრამ ვფიქრობ ყველაზე სრულყოფილი.
Ray Bradbury, more than his fictions, I am a fan of his short stories and this one is beautiful. Margot, a girl bullied by her classmates, claims she has seen the Sun, no one believes in her. On the day when the Sun comes out, she is forced inside a closet by all the kids. This is a melancholic story and beautifully written.Do read this.Happy Reading!
'I think the sun is a flower,That blooms for just one hour.'Fabulous little short story. There have been numerous comparisons to Ponies which I believe are a fair comparison, although I didn't enjoy Ponies nearly as much as this one. I feel this was due to the only major difference being the lack of remorse for actions made (in Ponies).Thanks for another good one, Wendy. :)
La magia de los (buenos) cuentos cortos, a mi parecer, radica en la serie de sensaciones e ideas que puede transmitir, en un cúmulo de espacio muy pequeño. En este cuento Bradbury, logra golpear (al lector) con sensaciones de una manera magnífica.... Usa de contexto un escenario de ciencia ficción para despertar las sensaciones humanas... Y conmigo lo hizo al punto de casi hacerme llorar al ponerme en el lugar de la pequeña Margot....No le doy 5 estrellas por lo bien que está escrito o su originalidad, sino por la empatía que logró en mi, en solo 4 páginas...
What a brilliant, heartbreaking little story. I heard about this short story on Anne Bogel's podcast "what should I read next" and I immediately went and found it online to read.It was so beautifully written. And so, so sad. But also powerful. Kids can be such bullies to those who are different. We must teach them better. Although not explicit, that's what this story is about.
I just heard a podcast recommending this short story and I just had to read it it's awesome so creepy at the end and heartbreaking this is a perfect short story for kids to read around the topic of bullying man it's so awesome
A beautiful and sad short story.
I would definitely recommend it to others.
This is one of the things I love most about short stories.
They may be short, but they pack a hell of a punch.
The story itself isn't spectacular.
It's simple but it's artfully done.
To be honest, it's something I consider as the future for this planet.
It may not be in our lifetime but definitely in the future.
Read it for free hereP.s - As much as I loved this story, I have to stay it does not compare to The End of the Party.
When I was 9 years old I saw the PBS adaptation of this story and it just killed me.
It hit me then the way that The Lottery and Other Stories would years later.
This story was one of the first times I realized that fiction could contain more truth than non-fiction.
Today I came across it again and learned the title and origin.Ray Bradbury is always the mood setter extraordinaire but for me there is something more to this short than just mood.
For me this story creates that quiet involuntary gazing out the window, that losing track of the outer world that really marks a great read.
"Sometimes, at night, she heard them stir, in remembrance, and she knew they were dreaming and remembering gold or a yellow crayon or a coin large enough to buy the world with.
She knew they thought they remembered a warmness, like a blushing in the face, in the body, in the arms and legsand trembling hands.
But then they always awoke to the tatting drum, the endless shaking down of clear bead necklaces upon the roof, the walk, the gardens, the forests, and their dreams were gone."Again I think that Ray Bradbury is the master of short-storytelling.
A lot of things left unsaid and still this story stir you emotions and touches your soul.
A story felt like a dream.
3.25*The ending was really anticlimactic and the story went nowhere and pretty much had no meaning. The writing style was really awesome though. Also I'm pretty sure I've read this before so nostalgia.
“I think the sun is a flower,That blooms for just one hour.”Beautiful and poignant, with so much emotion conveyed in so few words.This is a great story to open up the issues of bullying and discrimination and I encourage you to read it.
Well, Thats it? - This was my response to this short story.Yet its stuck in my head, the lot left unsaid is the lot that is haunting. Somehow these 4 pages possess more power than many long thick fat books.And reviewing it even for premise would be spoiling the read.
