https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/714902.Noughts_Crosses
And now I'm just gonna wing it.First thing's first - Malorie Blackman's Noughts and Crosses absolutely broke me in all ways a reader can be broken.
But Callum and Sephy are in love and they try to fight against the enduring tide that is race and prejudice.
There are so many things working against their happiness that there is tension even when they try to help each other.What I really appreciated in this book is that while the concept (of black and white reversed) is not new, Blackman spins a unique twist in her presentation.
"Dear God, please let him have heard me. Please.Please.If you're up there.Somewhere." Holy fucking hell! What !?? What was this book? Noughts and Crosses is a hands-down 5+ starer. If I’m allowed I wouldn’t give it a half-a-star less than a 100.Can anyone please answer this question: How do you even go about reviewing this book? How do you even -God, how are you even in a condition to speak after reading this? My bed is a snotty mess right now and I can’t seem to be able to able to stop bawling
My bed is a snotty mess right now and I can’t seem to be able to able to stop bawling my eyes out.This is my condition after having finished reading Noughts and Crosses.
I love you both with my life.The issue which Noughts and Crosses tackles is one that I can most connect to, or lets say I'm most familiar with.
Somewhere.All that I can say to anyone who reads this review is that if you don't read Noughts and Crosses, then you'e committing a sin.
This book is just wow,definitely A+.I was hooked from the start by the gripping story and complex re
I started reading this, and after sitting down twice to try to read it, I had to put it down.I've read up a bit on it, and I can totally understand why people think this book is amazing (some things that happen later on... WOW. emotion-city). However, I couldn't stand the writing style, which was very childish and used way too many exclamation points. I'M SO SORRY, FANS OF THIS BOOK. I just can't push through.
This may have been the first YA "dystopia" I ever read. The genre has gone through many changes since then but this book continues to stick in my mind as one which cemented my love for it. It's an old tale of forbidden romance but avoids being cheesy. It's a tale of heartache and tragedy but steers clear of melodrama. One thing is certain: Sephy and Callum's story will stay with me for a long time.
And the characters and the relationships between them are some of the most brilliantly constructed ones that I have ever read.And the plot twists… I can’t stop thinking about them.
I’m trying to be coherent and make intelligent observations but it’s difficult to make coherent and intelligent observations when all I want to do when I think of this book is sob into a chocolate cake.Yep, that’s right.
Hey, you wouldn’t want it any other way, would you?But, I officially pass on reviewing this book.Why Malorie Blackman isn’t the name on everyone’s lips, I don’t know.
So I've finally made myself finish this book.
I had real high expectations, seeing all the 5 star reviews and 'wow's!'.
I've never been any good at writing book reviews so excuse me if this doesn't come across how I want it too.
One word i would use to describe this book.....
When I read a good book I can envision it in my head, create my own little movie if you like, but this is the only book I've ever read where that didn't happen.
I do like the basis for the plot, it just could have been so much more than it is.
*3-4 stars, what's the difference?? I just started bawling as I added the quotes, so clearly I'm unreliable*  I held out my hands and she put hers in mine, looking at me ruefully. Love was like an avalanche, with Sephy and I hand-in-hand racing like hell to get out of its way-only instead of running away from it, we kept running straight toward it. So...hmmm...yeah. This book is an asshole. Seriously. What the ever loving fuck, I mean, REALLY??? Fucking REALLY?!?!? I wouldn't take much stock in
So, I excused the juvenile writing because every time I would start to get angry with the situations or the characters or the GD writing, something truly gripping would happen that would suck me back in.
They loved each other, but all these horrible situations kept happening where Callum's class would show and he would get this visceral feeling where he resented all the crosses (naturally and understandably), including Sephy.
I love crazy, heart-stopping endings, but this book took it one step too far and I was already a little on the fence with it.
But, don't troll me...The rest of this is about me, you might not want to bother reading it.(view spoiler)[On the island I live on, when I arrived there were about 6,000 people, not poor, nice place to live, very difficult to get to and everyone said 'hello' when you passed them on the street.
So I know where this book is coming from.Do I say that Black racism is here and all the whites are innocent victims?
They have caused me a lot of harm what with no contracts from their schools, social isolation for my kids and talking trash to me (those who don't know me) about blacks in general.
I wish there was a negative star.
There are so many good books about civil rights and race relations, I don't know what the author was doing trying to rip everyone else off for.
I thought the writing and the plots were poorly written and superifical.
I am not sure how I forced my self to keep reading this pathetic book.Read the invisible Man by Ralph EllisonRead a Prayer before Dieing by GainesRead a comic book before you waste you time on this book.The only thing I can say about it being published in the US is maybe it will get the panning it deserves if it does.
But as they grow older and the world encroaches on their friendship, they can deny no longer the big glaring barrier between them: Sephy is a Cross, Callum is a nought.
Noughts & Crosses is written alternately in the voices of Sephy and Callum, in short chapters that grant the two differing perspectives.
It's well written, with both Sephy and Callum growing older, more mature, more disillusioned.

My boyfriend was both concerned and irritated.I tried to explain but he hates reading so I couldn't even begin and he's just sitting there like:This is one of my favorite books of all time.
I even tweeted at the author and tried to tell her that her book was amazing.(She favorited the tweet :D) The love story.The characters.The bluntness of the storytelling.God. Amazing.I read this a while ago but I never see people talking about this book so I thought I would say something about it so PEOPLE WOULD READ IT.PLEASE.Don't leave me with my emotions all by myself.
Yet, I think of the novels I've perused in the reverse discrimination measure, this is the one that was closest to hitting the nail on the head with how to portray it - with sensitivity, with enough wiggle room to get you to think on the subject matter for itself while still exploring progressive attitudes, and even if the characters were naive as anything else (and oh were they in this book!), they had a tough coming of age as the narrative moved forward.I have a few points I want to make starting off this review before delving into the story itself, maybe it might help you to understand how I took this narrative in on a personal level.
Noughts are the white citizens, most of them are laboring class and they are controlled by Crosses, who are the black citizens.
Our main characters, Callum McGregor, a Nought and Persephone "Sephy" Hadley, a Cross were best friends since they were young and later on became lovers.
One rule on their society: Noughts & Crosses cannot mixed together.
I love Callum and Sephy because they have an unconditional love, they don't give a fucking damn about their racial tones even if they're judged by other people.
Remember, we cannot please all people, but they cannot control someone's feelings of who to love.
Given the choice between rereading Naughts and Crosses again and having someone slowly puncture my right eye with a rusty icepick, I would gladly take the rusty icepick.
Some may think I am exaggerating, but that is only because they have not read this tripe.
World-building at its worst, that's Naughts and Crosses.
Character development was limited and amateurish {Of all the book's faults [and there are many(I know I am being a little hypocritical in pointing out faults when I am being overly parenthetical, but...)], this is probably the worst.}.
The figurative language seemed to be composed by a fourth grader.Yuck!
Yuck!
Yuck!
Believe the hype! It is THAT good. And bring a damn Kleenex box when you do decide to read it!
Ich bin sprachlos und das Ende hat mich einfach nur zerstört. Eines der besten Bücher der letzten Jahre !
Warning 2: These are my thoughts based on what I know and who I am, if I am ignorant in any way in this review, please use this as a good time to educate me, not yell at me.Warning 3: I loved this book a little too much to be fully unbiased.
Sometimes, it's really difficult to know what to say because you don't want to upset people, especially when you just don't understand how something feels and have never experienced what others have, and this book had some really good lessons on kind of things to avoid.
Now post emancipation, it is the non-black population who are distinctly disadvantaged and impoverished in this alternative future society which is ruled and controlled by the dominating blacks (Crosses).The ‘Noughts & Crosses’ series provides us with an explicit flip and twist on both the history and current political and cultural demographic of British society – where racial politics is turned on its head and power structures are completely reversed.
The books successfully challenge and encourage particularly the non-black reader to reconsider and think again about being part of and party to, a racially privileged white society – and by extension, to consider the real life alternative in the light of the fictional world that is portrayed here in the ‘Noughts & Crosses’ series.
This is an intelligently and sensitively written story about two friends, Callum, a white-skinned nought and Sephy a dark-skinned Cross and their relationship as they grow up.
The story is narrated by both Sephy and Callum alternating with each chapter and allows us to see their very different worlds through their eyes.
The frustration and anger felt at the injustice of prejudice spawned from just the colour of a persons skin never left me while reading this book.
This is a seriously thought provoking book and sometimes harsh as the two worlds of Sephy and Callum collide.
“Just remember, Callum when you’re floating up and up in your bubble, that bubbles have a habit of bursting. The higher you climb, the further you have to fall..."***2 stars*** This is my fourth time writing this review. Let's hope it gets done this time***It's time for...*drumroll*Jenn's Pro/Con List! Pros:  1. The dual POV. Sometimes when a character makes a stupid decision, you wonder "What the hell was he/she/it thinking?" Well, because this book was told from both Sephy and Callum's first-p
Let's hope it gets done this time***It's time for...*drumroll*Jenn's Pro/Con List!
Sometimes when a character makes a stupid decision, you wonder "What the hell was he/she/it thinking?" Well, because this book was told from both Sephy and Callum's first-person point-of-view, you know exactly what they were thinking.
I especially liked Callum, because he was a realist, and smart, too.
It would be weird if she were like Callum, because their circumstances are so different.
(view spoiler)[ I predicted Lynette's suicide, Gabe joining the Liberation Militia, and Callum's dad's suicide quite easily.
Aren't thrillers supposed to be, you know, thrilling?
Holy crap this was amazing!
I don't know how to categorise this book it's sort of a contemporary set in a world where history is alternate to our world's history but still pretty much the same.
The only alternate aspect is that instead of light-skinned people always being in power and enslaving dark-skinned people, dark-skinned people (crosses) are in power and had in the past enslaved light-skinned people (noughts).
So this book is basically a mix of contemporary and dystopian and those are my two least favourite genres but I loved this book...
I loved this book 5/5 stars.
“You're a Nought and I'm a Cross and there's nowhere for us to be, nowhere for us to go where we'd be left in peace...That's why I started crying. That's why I couldn't stop. For all the things we might've had and all the things we're never going to have.” Mi lista de decepciones va creciendo. Noughts & Crosses es uno de esos libros cuya trama general es buenísima, con gran potencial de terminar en tu lista de favoritos; pero que desgraciadamente no transmite nada. Eso fue lo que me ocurrió
Noughts & Crosses es uno de esos libros cuya trama general es buenísima, con gran potencial de terminar en tu lista de favoritos; pero que desgraciadamente no transmite nada.
Callum y Sephy, los personajes principales, tienen una muy estrecha amistad desde muy pequeños y, a lo largo del libro, vemos cómo ambos se convierten en adolescentes y jóvenes adultos, y la manera en la que su amistad deja de ser una simple relación entre amigos para convertirse en un romance.
2.5 porque si bien el background estuvo interesante, los personajes se quedaron cortos y no lograron hacer que el libro sobresaliera.
Unfortunately, this means that I dislike it because of that, since there is no theme or amount of excellent writing that will make me enjoy a story that is narrated by annoying, self-centred "AH ME" teenagers.The plot itself-the story arc that propels the book along-is pretty much a thin, Things That Happen, standard kind of plot that wasn't hugely appealing but kept the whole thing tied together quite nicely.
I can't say I've read anything like this before but I couldn't help from feeling annoyed that it wasn't written with me in mind.
3.5 stars.So for the first hundred pages or so of this book, I was really frustrated by the lack of world building.
Right up until the point where I was like "Oh shit, every damned book set in a world dominated by white people doesn't need world building to explain why white people are in charge of anything..." Yeah.
There was eventually a small amount of world building, just enough to give a basic history of the planet.
Like, when the book starts, Sephy is about to turn 14 and Callum is nearly 16.
And at the end of the book, Sephy is...18??
This is fiction for teenagers so it lacks real depth and could be at times described as a little contrived, but it's easy to read and provides an interesting insight into a world where race relations are the total reverse of the current reality. That said, I'm not sure what message this book was trying to convey, is the message that predjudice will always prevail, or that we should walk in our neighbours shoes before passing judgement. I hope it's the latter but I was left a little unclear, hopefully the remainder of the trilogy will reveal it for me.
Reviewed by Jocelyn Pearce for TeensReadToo.comIn NAUGHTS & CROSSES, the author creates a very believable alternate world that is almost like our own--but the main difference is a major one.
The ruling class to which Sephy Hadley's family belongs are the black Crosses, named for their supposed closeness to God. The other, the white Naughts, like Callum and his family, are second-class citizens.
In this world, it's unacceptable for a Naught and a Cross to be real friends, and unthinkable for them to fall in love.
Sephy and Callum became friends at a young age and, remarkably, they stayed that way (and became more), despite the prejudices of their society.
I love this book, it's been a while since I re-read it but my God does it pack a punch.Had me crying on the train!Definitely a must-read not just for the romance, action, tension and characters but because it will make you think.I plan to marathon the trilogy now as I have never read the other two books.
Sephy is like a beacon of hope in this book's society - she never understood why she was expected to hate the Noughts, for how could she after growing up with a friend like Callum?
The Message  I don't want to say in one simple statement that the message of this book is "blah, blah, blah." I don't think that Malorie Blackman wrote such a story with the goal of completely eradicating racism from the minds of readers all around the world or preaching a certain lesson to us.
It is a beautifully written love story and a powerful examination of issues of equality and it is a novel that will not disappear from my heart and my mind for a long, long time.
