https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/143225.All_Hallows_Eve
When a random bomb ends the life of one of them, she is given, as an unquiet spectre, the chance to begin anew - in the next, ghostly, invisible, world...But it will make your SKIN CRAWL with its evocation of the Pure Evil that seeks absolute domination over the seen and this other, unseen world.To be quite frank, though, I CAN’T recommend reading it in a dark, empty house, alone in the middle of the night.But if you DO find a copy (or get the Kindle version) I can’t guarantee you won’t listen to me!
I call this "the book that started the avalanche that brought me here." It's not the best book every written from a literary standpoint--indeed, Williams has serious flaws as a writer of fiction.
I'm saying that this book changed my life direction, and more than any other book I have ever read, it made me who I am today.
In Williams' novels, one gains a glimpse of an unseen reality, coinhering with our own, but normally invisible to us, that nevertheless influences us, nourishes us, and imperils us (depending on who you are and the choices you make).
Charles Williams's best novel, and probably the most accessible to the modern reader.
Any book that begins with the death of the heroine and the proceeds on to her further adventures has an interesting plot arc, you will agree.Charles Williams was one of C.S. Lewis's best friends, but he had quite a different writing style.
It's surprisingly hard to write; when I try it the work insists on becoming a straight action adventure with small bobbles of spiritual stuff hanging on the armature.
To get the theological stuff right into the spine of the work, Williams is a master at.
Charles Williams's novels are powerful.
His style is hard to read because many of his sentences are overly complex and his ideas of reality and spirituality are so intricate and unique that readers just don't know what he's talking about.
(The commentary The Novels of Charles Williams is helpful.) But it's all so powerful.
The spiritual realm is incredibly vivid and real and inter-woven with the natural realm.
The smallest sacrifice--even fetching one's wife a glass of water so that she does not have to get out of bed--are images of THE sacrifice and are enough to lead to one's salvation.
review may follow later. It is not an easy book to describe. Very curious and complicated.
The supernatural or divine forces are made known or manifested through exchange of personal relationships--particularly feelings of love and hate.While this often results in some very imaginative and evocative descriptions (or interpretations) of supernatural phenomena, at times even mind-blowingly profound, at other times the narrative gets muddled up in cheesy mysticism and abstract ideas perhaps too obscure for most readers.
I understand that Williams was trying to get at some Platonic ideal beyond mere relationships, like Dante's Beatrice, but the result was an awkward incongruity between ordinary post-war life on the one hand, and pure spiritual joy or hatred with no concrete substance on the other.
This is one of the strangest books ever written. A young woman dies to discover a London that looks right out of Dante. A painter does a portrait of a minister and discovers he has painted beetles, and the minister thanks him for it! A magician sends someone to the future. And somehow, this is all a deeply religious book. Williams, a favored friend of C. S. Lewis wrote this and several other very strange novels. All of them are great reads while being deeply, deeply strange.
Pretty suspenseful for, y'know, an allegory.
Charles Williams' novels are unlike any others.
At the beginning, Lester is waiting on a bridge to meet her newly-married husband, Richard.
She is angry because he has kept her waiting.
Gradually she realizes that she is dead, killed by a falling airplane.
Killed in the same accident is her friend Evelyn.
Their third friend, Betty, is in mortal danger from a mysterious man, Simon Magus, who seeks power over her.
In Williams' world being dead is no excuse for inaction when necessary, and Lester begins to work to save Betty.The story of Betty's peril, and the spiritual growth of Lester make up the center of the novel.
The other woman is drawn by an evil Antichrist and ends up rejecting the Acts of the City (I love Williams' terminology which at face value means nothing to the reader, but once you start understanding his fantastic, spiritual vocabulary, makes every bit of sense).
So, I don't know what this book is.
One caution though: If the reader doesn't have a good understanding of the Bible, I'm pretty sure they will miss out on many/most of the references.
Who knows, this might be a good introduction to Christian theology.
After being thoroughly confusing, it might start to make pretty good sense.
More like a chess game of metaphysics cloaked in poetry than a novel. It's very beautiful, but I must admit more than a little bit was beyond me. Like everything Williams wrote, one must pay close attention, re-read things as many times as necessary, and sincerely be able to allow him to shatter conventional story-telling while still creating a story. Even with all that I can say Williams seems to have understood things I simply cannot. But his goodness radiates off the page, and is worth pursuing.
I read this yesterday, in honor of the occasion. Highly worthwhile, as Williams always is, with several passages leaving you feeling a) vaguely stupid for not quite understanding him and b) inspired to read everything so that next time you read the book you might possibly get it. Because there will be a next time.Also, I found his differentiation between love and compassion/kindness particularly fabulous. Perfect reading for All Hallow's Eve.
She spent most of her time at school trying to escape Evelyn.Lester, while not exactly a sterling character, found Evelyn's small-minded sadism toward Brenda tiresome.
His plan is to get the world to come under his dominion and worship him.His daughter is Brenda and he somehow is able to use her as a portal to communicating with the spirit world.
Brenda, as I have said, is a weak, passive creature, hated even by her mother who only does the Clerk's bidding and hopes to make Brenda as miserable as possible.I do not want to give the story away, but some unexpected turns and developments of character transpires along the way.
But Williams can therefore be even more powerful, because he deals in pure archetypes, and so one can seriously believe in the spiritual battles which he portrays, because they do not involve the proxies of conventional religious language, but are simply, to rephrase Clauswitz, the continuation of physical war by other means.So, this book starts grippingly enough with two women walking in a city.
And the image of the City, vast, empty and terrifying to those who separate themselves from order, a vast living supernatural entity to those who align with order, recurs with increasing force until, at the end of the book, it manifests itself to crush the man who has tried to make himself into the king of the world, Rex Mundi.
The novel makes use of the Great Image of The City—an approach that appears in both Dante and Augustine of Hippo.
Then the City appears in two paintings by Jonathan—one a dark image of the twisted evil world of Simon and the other a strange variation of a luminous and transcendent spiritual vision.
The imbecile master and his companions were being swallowed up in distance, but this was swallowing up distance.”This is one of the most potent spiritual images in the novels.
All the characters in some way relate to the tremendous master image of the City.
This book from the very beginning was like a supernatural journey to places I have never been.
There is this Simon character who is a bit of a magician and represents to me what seemed like evil, and a young woman who seemed to represent good.
Some interesting facts about Williams was that he was one of C.S Lewis's literary friends in the writers' group called "the Inklings." He also belonged to the Church of England and wrote on a wide array of topics, from his supernatural thrillers, to theology.Upon finishing the book I am left with a feeling that my first reading only scratched the surface and that in the future I must return to this one again.
The job allowed much time for study, only four rounds through campus being required.
I spent most of that 'free' time in the Women's Center, a lounge on the ground floor and near the entrance to Knox Hall, a residence for faculty.
During the first two of my four years at UTS I was befriended and often visited at work by Barry Wood, an Episcopal priest who also happened to be the school's physician.
In the course of many such talks he recommended I read the works of Charles Williams.
Someone wrote, "don't read this book!" on the inside back page, unfortunately, I didn't see the warning until it was too late.
A more subtle hint came in that the introduction was by T.S. Eliot, but it wasn't until the 3rd chapter entitled, "Clerk Simon" that I read the hate-filled speech of the anti-Jewish at full throttle.
The magician who means to enslave all mankind, the living and the dead, is Jewish of course.
He even means to kill his own daughter in order to achieve world domination.Mostly, the writing was a curious miasma, things circling about and returning to confuse the reader.I do agree with him on one point, he writes that temptation,".
That's tough sledding.) A novel which begins with the death of the heroine is starting out on the right foot.
From there the hijinks snap right along.
This is a grand book, with both vast spiritual conflicts and tiny battles.
Williams orchestrates everything into a grand climax that is enormously satisfying.
I had to fill out some forms at Book View Cafe recently, in preparation for the e-publication of HOW LIKE A GOD.
One of the questions is, what is the book most like?
Supply ISBNs. None of my books are like anything, I wanted to say.
Charles Williams writes on the margin of the physical and metaphysical and this is the best example of his storytelling. We learn how the characters -- and ourselves as readers -- react when we are touched by the spiritual world. This a wonderful mix of historical fiction, spiritual challenge, and thought-provoking insight into human thinking. His writing draws me in every time and I truly enjoy the art he practiced.
I really wanted to like this a lot more. When there was dialogue and the characters interacted, it moved along well. The Clerk/Father is chilling in his own way, and I like the idea of dead city mirroring a live one. But the metaphysical bits dragged a little too much, and ultimately turned out to be a chore, even for a reader like myself who usually welcomes the challenge.
I think that this is my favorite novel. As in, ever. And I have read a lot of books. ;) "What makes it so amazing?" you might ask. It has some of the strongest and most beautiful women characters of any book I've read. It also has one of the most fantastic premises of any book I've read. But I love how this story highlights the spiritual reality that is a part of our natural world.
A profoundly Christian ghost story. World War II has ended, and Lester and her friend Evelyn have just been killed in a plane crash. But there are dark and sinister forces at work. Lester, her still living husband Richard, his friend Jonathan and his girlfriend Betty all have a part to play, as does Evelyn, though her desires are contrary to those of the others. The book will be a puzzle to those with little interest or knowledge of Christian theology, but for the informed reader, this a profound bit of theology.
"I learned that Charles Williams had died in hospital in Oxford the day before, after an operation which had not been expected to be critical." (p viii) You mean like Andy Warhol & bpNichol?
""They look exactly like beetles," Lady Wallingford said.
"In fact, she talked, as no doubt she told you, about insects and imbeciles." "The Clerk, still looking at him, said, "They aren't insects; they are something less.["]" - p 63 That's right, they're robopaths..
She went on into Lady Wallingford's house." - p 94 Richard, you know, Lester's husband (or ex-husband?), "felt with a shock that Simon was between him and the door.
He can get a bit too abstract at times, forgetting to let the story do the philosophical work for him, but his imagery is so original and arresting that it's worth the effort.All Hallows’ Eve is driven by the relationship between three female friends—it just so happens that two of them are dead when the story begins.
People are not fully separated from their former life in the City; it's a place where the worlds of the living and the dead remain tangled, where those who have recently died are allowed to work out what kind of immortal they will become.
But it takes up almost 300 pages because of Williams's deep engagement with the idea of what happens to souls on the margins of death, of how the world of eternity communicates with this one, of the laws that govern such communication, and of how our smallest acts ring with the largest significances.
I have very little idea how the Christian tradition interacts with the premises involved in a novel in which two of the main characters are already dead...and still have great moral choices to make, on which the weight of their whole identity hinges, and also some things in the world of the living.
It's only about 275 pages, but it took me months to read, mostly because it demanded all my concentration and I often didn't have the energy.The issue isn't the story, it's Charles Williams' questionable writing style.
Descent Into Hell (the first Williams work I read) is similarly written but shorter, and more focused and disciplined, and is the better novel for it.I don't even have that much to say about the plot because I was too distracted by the writing style.
Definitely not a book for the faint of heart.
Meanwhile her widower goes over to a friend's house and sees some paintings he's done, including one of a rising cult leader all the rage in London.
They get sucked into the dark occultic world of the cult leader, who has magical powers by (I guess) capturing souls wandering in the City.
Or something.Anyway, this is a novel, by which I mean it is rich, layered, textured and deep.
You won't read it the first time and "get it" like a Clancy novel.
A good quality in any book.
Charles Williams was one of the Inklings and friend of C.S. Lewis and J.R.R. Tolkien.
You can see Williams' influence on his Oxford friend in Lewis' That Hideous Strength (the last book in Lewis's space trilogy) and in the Great Divorce.
He was also friends with T.S Eliot who wrote the preface to this book.
This has to be one of the best books Williams wrote and the first chapter is one of the creepiest beginnings I've ever read.
But all in all it moves along fairly well and lives up to the genre of spiritual thriller that Williams pioneered.
They're all worth the effort, but this one is probably the closest to a successful novel and it's a page-turner too-- sort of the "evil sorcerer, wandering ghosts and star-crossed lovers" story to end all such stories.
There are some images that make your heart skip a beat, and others that sneak up and haunt you; he does like to wander off into pure lyric symbolism, and you have to accept that he will lose you from time to time.About the theology-- like Lewis, Williams made Christianity central to all his work, but Christian fans of Lewis, be they conservative or liberal, might find Williams a little alarming; his sheer enthusiasm always hints at taking you down some unorthodox roads.
