https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/809849.Dear_Zoo
Original review, August 19, 2015Huh, I somehow missed this excellent very-easy-reader when I was kid and only just encountered it as my baby niece had it.
She handed it to me in exchange for my Michelin Must Sees Milan & Italian Lakes guide, which apparently I am not getting back.
Babies are unfair like that.
Update, February 8, 20165 months later this is still a firm favorite with my niece, who wanted it read three times before bed.
The flaps have held up quite well, and the book about Italian lakes is also undamaged (it's still on the shelf with Sandra Boynton and Mem Fox.
This is just the bestest Lift-a-Flap book evah!This kid writes to the zoo, because they want a pet...Hilarity ensues as the crates start arriving, and the kid ends up having to send the animals back.They get a giraffe.
(view spoiler)[Too tall!
(hide spoiler)]A lion.
(view spoiler)[Too fierce!
(hide spoiler)]A snake.
(view spoiler)[Too scary!
(hide spoiler)]A camel.
(view spoiler)[Too mean!
(hide spoiler)]A frog.
(view spoiler)[Too jumpy!
(hide spoiler)]A puppy.
(view spoiler)[Um, they keep that one.
(hide spoiler)]There are probably a few animals that I've forgotten about, but you get the gist.
Each are in a crate/cage/box/basket, and you get to Lift-the-Flaps.Total fun, and one of my kids' favorite books.
Classic favourite.
I can't believe this was a new book when I first read to my children 25 years ago-they were babies! How fast time goes.I remember this book as being great fun. They both loved it.
My 2-year old niece will probably love this one.
Con gái tớ cũng biết đọc rồi (sơ sơ) nên nàng ta sau một lượt đọc là trốn luôn chỉ lật hình và (đương nhiên) bị phạt phải đọc thêm cả chữ.
Bù vào, nàng ta cho phép mình lật mỗi hình như vậy hai lần, hí hí...Kiểu sách thế này trước đây tớ có gặp qua ở quyển Có vòi không phải con voi trong bộ Câu đố dân gian cho bé của Nhã Nam.
Its much more fun when you're "reading" this with babies and toddlers and using something fun, furry and soft.When I "read" it, I had a box marked "From the Zoo" (as if the kids could read it) and I would just say the same line over and over again:"I wrote to the zoo to send me a pet..." (That's a direct quote from the book) and then I'd pull out a different puppet from the box and bring it to life for a few seconds.
She collected a bunch of small boxes and made them look they came in the mail, then she put animal fingerpuppets inside.
I've got a sticker on the back of my car that says "Dogs are for life, not just for Christmas" (What?!?!
Ok, I'm one of those smug animal lovers who have naff, self righteous car stickers.
And I couldn't say no to the animal charity where I got my dog from, when they asked me to stick it on my rear screen window.).Regardless.
Am I delivering a dark, subconscious message of irresponsibility to my child when I read her this?But my daughter really loves this book.
And how lovely it would be to have a zoo keep sending you animals on demand.
This book is legit and I have been really into it lately—a surprise and a delight on every page.
But I must admit that I’m a little confused by the premise.
A kid writes to the zoo to ask for a pet?
And the lack of specificity in the kid’s request leads to the zoo wasting what I can only imagine is an astronomical amount of money on postage.
(I don’t imagine you can ship elephants and the like for, like, less than twenty bucks.) I’m only sixteen months old and I don’t claim to know how the world works, though.
Probably the toddler's favorite. He likes to make the animal sounds (on a related note - anyone know what sound a giraffe makes?). The 6 year old also enjoys reading it to him, so it might be my favorite book as well.
Very cute lift-the-flap book.
Cute little book and my children love opening the flaps and shouting out the animal names.
There is a reason this book has been in print for some 25 years and counting. It captures perfectly what occurs in any family whenever a kid decides that they want a pet. This kid goes a little over board but hat makes the book even more heartwarming. The flaps are also great for little hands as they discover the surprises beneath.Find Dear Zoo: A Lift-the-Flap Book at the Westminster Public Library!
I can't get enough of this book. The pop-up animals seemed so real, I had to pull the snake's head off to stop it from biting me.
I read this to my toddler at least six times a day, so I think it should count toward my challenge goal.
The story is written as a letter to a zoo asking them to send a pet to the reader.
Each page has a flap which carefully hides the animal sent from the zoo and a written clue for example, ‘heavy’ or ‘danger’ on the animal’s container.
After a variety of animals have been sent and returned to the zoo for being unsuitable, the zoo carefully contemplates what animal would be best and send a dog, which is kept because it is ‘perfect’.The story enables children to identify what animals live in a zoo and raises questions about the characteristics of animals and their suitability as pets.
This teaches children about the difference between wild animals and pets.
Children can guess what animals they think will be behind the flap and explain why, which encourages verbal reasoning.
The book provides ample opportunity for discussion the children can talk about what animal they would like as a pet.
The children will be asked to explain what they think would happen if the kept a wild animal as a pet.
They can also talk about where wild animals are kept.
The children can engage in role play and pretend to be the animals.
The book ‘Dear Zoo’ by Rod Campbell was a favourite amongst the children at my nursery.
It’s a story about a child who writes to the zoo asking for a pet, and receives a number of unsuitable animals from them.
The children at my nursery really loved the interactive ‘lift the flap’ element and would ask for this book to be read to them again and again.
It was also really enjoyed by the EAL children in the nursery, as many of them already knew the animal’s names and joined in with the sounds these animals make.
Also the repetitiveness of the story makes it easier for all children to join in.
A sadistic zookeeper attempts murder by luring a small child into close contact with a lion and a snake.http://dadreads.blogspot.com.au/2016/...
Such a cute  lift - the flap  book with adorable illustrations of the zoo animals ! ^_^
You have got to ask some serious questions about the ethics of a zoo that will send a tiger(!) to you at the merest postal request. That's just cavalier at best.
But as we read on and flipped the flaps he had some questions that kind of took him away from the story, like what are lions and how exactly does being fierce disqualify the lion from being a good pet?
Who's responsible for the return postage?His eyes kind of wandered away from the story which I could take to mean he was ready for his morning nap or that he would have liked another page for each animal showing how they were too fierce or too scary.
We don't want to give anything away, but that's the pet Ben has at home too, so that last flap was really exciting to open.
Here's an example (off the top my head, because I've read this book a lot): "I wrote to zoo to send me a pet.
They sent me a camel but he was too grumpy so I sent him back.""I wrote to the zoo to send me a pet.
I know that kids books are not meant to be taken literally, but the message here kinda sucks and the only thing this book has going for it is the cool cut out, fold up, pop up animals.
We have both a board book and a paperback. Baby loves them, and seems to make no distinction between board book or paperback. She's very good at waiting until just the right moment to lift the flap.I am worried about the moral of this story. I do not wish for my Baby to (a) think she can write to a zoo for a pet, (b) think she can keep wild animals as pets (c) think she can return gifts ad nauseum or (d) want a puppy.
This is a super cute children's book that has flaps to reveal different animals the zoo sent to the writer. It all ends well and it's interactive for the child! I do think that the 'scary' animal was actually pretty cute.
Home run!
This is currently the small human’s favourite book, with compulsory daily reading. I switch up the genders (except the lion’s!) because that’s how I roll 😁
Super cute!
Love the art and flaps. This will be so much fun to read later again.
I read this book a while ago for a storytime, either last year or the year before. I've since done the flannel board version of it, which is great medium to tell this story through. It always gets a good response.
