https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/8002104-beggars-of-life
I am a big fan of the Hobo literature - especially autobiographical works. The publisher is Nabat Books. They specialize in "reprinting forgotten memoirs". I really liked another of their books about riding the rails called You Can't Win by Jack Black.The writing by Jim Tully about his adventures on the rails is great stuff. Combined with hair raising, first person accounts of mishaps, mayhem and murder, it makes the book a first rate read.
I actually have an original 1924 version of this book! (yes, just had to say)This is one of my all time favorite books. I love reading about the old hobo lifestyle and this is one of the best books on the subject. The book can be enjoyed from multiple perspectives. It's just a good adventure yarn, with tight prose and a gritty atmosphere. It's also fascinating as a historical account of America.On both levels and others, I love this book.
Jim Tully's life as a hobo and his adventures as he travels all over the world hopping on trains, hiding from police, and occasionally resorting to violence in order to get away.
Dealing with starvation, begging for money, getting drunk, and meeting other very interesting characters.
People he meets get into street fights, knife fights, and even die brutal death's trying to get on the trains.
"Tramping in the wild and windy places, without money, food, or shelter, was better for me than supinely bowing to any conventional decree of fate. The road gave me one jewel beyond price, the leisure to read and dream. If it made me old and wearily wise at twenty, it gave me for companions the great minds of all the ages, who talked to me with royal words.""A kind heart is a sad heritage of which all the ills of life do not rob a person."
Being on the road with the hoboes and tramps. Living the life jumping on and off passing trains.
I read Beggars of Life to understand what it would be like to go anywhere, anytime, with no thought of money or job or home.
And Jim Tully told me in his strong tale of wanderlust--at one point, Jim has both typhoid and malaria, and when he gets well, he wanders again!
And like Christ, he saved his disfavor for the judgmental, the hypocrite.Jim Tully's book is an example of why I love to read.
If you don't read the book, you should at least google Jim Tully to see what a fantastical life he had.
I don't know what to think about this book. I am satisfied that I read it; however, I do not think it was a great book. I think Tully too influenced by Jack London. It is raw and grittier than London could do, but I have the impression he writing for teenage boys. I guess my best comment is to say that I am not moved to read Emmett Lawyer or Tully's other books.
A nice read, considering it was written in the 1920s!
Better known for his biography of Chaplin (Chaplin sued for 1/2m dollars and lost - this book is dedicated partly to him) and his first novel "Emmett Lawler" (which started as a 100,000 word paragraph, no-one had taught him punctuation), this book was the first of Tully's autobiographical sequence of books, his "Underworld Edition" (with "Shanty Irish", "Circus Parade", "Shadows of Men" and "Blood on the Moon" following) and tells of his early life as a youth deciding to see the world, riding the trainlines, as a migratory worker aka a Hobo.
I still prefer Jack Black's travails in "You can't win" but maybe i'll change my mind if/when I read the other 4 books in the edition.
I've heard about this writer and this particular book for decades.
I truly enjoyed this book and the true life tales of " hoboes" and the just plain transient and desperate struck closer to home these days when jobs are scarce and the right wants to destroy the safety net while the gap between rich and poor becomes a Grand Canyon.
There are shining moments that breath with life for sure, but also many sluggish periods and dated prose.
But Tully was a strong voice for a part of America most folks don't believe exist or want to imprison/enslave.
Yes, but I am continuing the research as I'm converting my thesis into a nonfiction book on The American Road Novel.
Back to the book.
What's most interesting about this book is the fact it's been out of print for decades and this publisher (Nabat) has spent time researching the archives of the Library of Congress to find books of this nature and republish them (i.e. You Can't Win by Jack Black - highly recommended).
A publisher myself, and very interested in American history-culture-society, this strategy appeals to me.
it's a hobo memoir, so it's mostly about hobo stuff (trains, talking to other hobos, stating and re-stating one's defiant commitment to the hobo lifestyle, pursuit of warm nutritious meals).
(side note: hobos might outpace rappers in terms of their solitary focus on articulating the virtues of their chosen lifestyle and their own individual excellence at being about said life).but actually beyond the hobo genrematic conventions, this was a really good and lovely read.
exceedingly beautiful and elevated descriptions of the beauties of life on the road under the blanket of stars.
a little dated and formal, but alive with an authentic human electricity.
Somewhere between a B and C for readability... I found the book really hard to get into, but that is more a simple matter of personality differences, than of bad writing though. Tully as a hobo applies his own lens to the world around him, though I think it was more like a welding lens...
Really anything about crime or hobo lifestyles by AK Press is fascinating. I have never been let down.
Inspirational.
rad classic hobo bio. a little travelin, a little honest work and a little crime thrown in for good measure.
Riding the rails out of desperation but with a poetic eye for scenes and circumstances. Like On The Road? You'll like this beatnic account of being down and out in the early 1920s.
not as good as i hoped it would be, but still quite interesting
415
Funny and fascinating hobo autobiography by occasional writer for Charlie Chaplin.
