https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/73574.Lud_in_the_Mist
30-odd years before Tolkein published “The Lord of the Rings”, a British woman named Hope Mirrlees wrote a fantasy called “Lud-in-the-Mist”.
However, none of the novels I mentioned have quite the impact of “Lud-in-the-Mist”.Written in 1926, “Lud-in-the Mist” is one of the most charming fantasies I have ever read.
It’s masterfully subtle.This novel did make me wonder if England had a temperance movement going on around the same time the US was enacting Prohibition.
I recommend “Lud-in-the-Mist” for every serious fan of fantasy.
Neil Gaiman raved about this book, so I read it. I wish I could have read it without knowing anything about it -- but I still liked it. It was written in the 1920's -- before fantasy tropes were so set in stone -- so it goes in directions you don't expect it to. Also, it's as though the author never heard of the idea that fantasy is a juvenile and disreputable genre, so she takes herself and her book seriously and uses fantasy to explore real and important ideas.
Nada más lejos de la realidad, y remontándonos en el tiempo podemos encontrar maravillas de la talla de La hija del rey del país de los elfos de Dunsany, Fantastes de MacDonald, o este Entrebrumas, entre otras.¿Quién no se ha preguntado en qué bosques misteriosos nuestros antepasados descubrieron los modelos que inspiraron las bestias y los pájaros de sus tapices?Escrito en 1926, es con todo derecho un clásico del género fantástico.
Más modernamente, es imposible no ver las conexiones de Entrebrumas con otras novelas icónicas del género, como Jonathan Strange y el Sr. Norrell de Susanna Clarke, o Stardust de Gaiman, quien la cita a menudo como una de sus obras favoritas.No hay ninguna cosa cotidiana que, contemplada desde cierto ángulo, no se transforme en un hada.
Neil Gaiman calls this "a little golden miracle of a book", and I can see why.The writing is beautiful, the themes thought-provoking, and the book as a whole is just so engrossing and satisfying.
It has that old-fashioned classical quality to it, but never feels stuffy (besides the two chapters of info-dumping in the beginning).
The characters may not have the depth of those in modern fiction, yet there was enough there to tug at the imagination.
It meanders, but never feels like it's drifting off-course.If you're a fan of old fashioned books with a fairytale feel, you owe it to yourself to pick this one up.
Kako da vam kažem, posle ove knjige Zvezdanu prašinu možete da posmatrate jedino kao imitaciju beznadežno udaljenu od originala i od njegovog osećaja za istinsku čaroliju.Roman koristi solidno poznati motiv - "normalno" mesto koje se graniči s Vilinskom zemljom i problemi koji iz toga nastaju za njegove (vrlo uslovno govoreći) "normalne" stanovnike - ali ga varira na dosta neobičan način i unosi sve moguće nijanse značenja i otvara se prema interpretacijama u rasponu od prikaza klasne borbe preko bolesti zavisnosti do odnosa stvarnosti, umetnosti i mita.
pa i kraj, zapravo, ali da sad ne zalazimo u to.
But soon I realized that this was an altogether sprightlier work, for all its early chapter concerns with a politically and socially powerful father who regards his son as a mere adjunct or appendage of his own identity.But then the book comes into its own just as Nathan Chanticleer's young son is suddenly revealed to him as a whole 'nother human being when he stumbles into confessing that he has broken the city of Lud-in-the-Mist's single greatest taboo: he has eaten fairy fruit.
Neil Gaiman made me do it!
Er, for those who don't know, Neil Gaiman touted Lud-in-the-mist as one of the best yet most overlooked Fantasy novels of the twentieth century, and in my humble opinion he slightly, just slightly, oversold it.
I appreciated the beauty of the prose, liked the idea of two civilizations (faerie and human) clashing together (even if more recent novels like Jonathan Strange & Mr. Norrell did it better), and indeed found the overall plot/mystery interesting enough to keep me turning the pages, but all in all I fail to recognize the masterpiece proclaimed by Gaiman in his review.
An exquisite, well-written, fascinating fantasy - unfortunately, a very disappointing ending. Or, should I say, very disappointing AFTER the ending, as the episode of Master Nathaniel meeting Duke Aubrey and finding the truth about Fairyland should have been the excellent ending of the book.However, the author decided to write a few chapters more, and the conclusion was not at all fit for the story.Worth reading, though. Could have been a masterpiece - it is, at the end of the day, just a fine book with a disappointing finale.
Neil Gaiman (Stardust) apparently admits her as a favorite, and while I haven't heard anything Susanna Clarke (Jonathan Strange & Mr. Norrell) may have said on the subject, I strongly suspect she's read this book.For all its both retrospective and forward-looking similarities to other great works of fantasy fiction, it's one of the more unpredictable tales I've ever read that yet managed an emotionally satisfying ending.
But that Note helps him, and it's the first thing that puts tears in my eyes when I think back over the book.For all the story's unpredictability, it's primarily a fairy tale.
If you like Clarke's work or Gaiman's, MacDonald's fairy stories or Tolkien's, it's worth giving Lud-in-the-Mist a try.
It is most certainly about balancing the mundane and the miraculous (paraphrasing Gaiman's introduction), which perhaps explains how it came to be all these things at once.There are quite a few elements that turned people off (judging from the reviews I've seen online) but every single one of them worked for me: yes, the first third or so was highly episodic; yes, Nathaniel Chanticleer seems a bit of a bumbling fool at first, and isn't exactly likable; yes, it is very British, and quite old, so everyone reads white (though the women come off quite a bit better than in most of the fantasy written by men at the time) and as I mentioned above there are plenty of classical references.
And ultimately, the point about letting in a little Fairyland is a good one: it’s basically a metaphor for imagination and fun, and that is something people need.The characters are interesting because they’re not what you would expect from modern fantasy; they’re not great people, they’re not heroes.
He’s just the one who happens to be there, and just happens to do the right things, because of perfectly ordinary emotions.I really enjoyed Lud-in-the-Mist, probably for the same reason I enjoyed Dunsany: it’s a kind of magic that I don’t find in modern fantasy enough, an old enchantment.Originally posted here.
The people of Lud were...well, "Luddites". This book I read long ago and it is by turns very sad, very funny, and always mind tickling. This is one of those..if you can find it, "must reads" of fantasy. Of course some will disagree with me...but I'd say if you get the chance, read it.
Really lovely! Highly recommended to anyone who loves Jonathan Strange and Mr Norrell.
(Why is Neil Gaiman's name on this too? Can that ego maniac go away forever?)Anyway, I'm enjoying it, and it's pretty mysterious and interesting so far.
It had an ancient Guild Hall, built of mellow golden bricks and covered with ivy and, when the sun shone on it, it looked like a rotten apricot; …(*) Spiritually, too, he passed for a typical Dorimarite; though, indeed, it is never safe to classify the souls of one’s neighbors; one is apt, in the long run, to be proved a fool.The men of the revolution, he said, had substituted law for fairy fruit.
I guess I’m a fool too, just like them.] I read and saw myself and eventually closed this book for good in disgust.It’s a wise book and an insightful book.
Both serious and light, this is a story that works on more than one level.
But don't read this if you want more conventional heroes and villains, battles and fast paced action, you'll not get any of that here.I don't have too much to say about this really, it's one of those books that will undoubtedly play on your mind for a long time afterwards, new ideas and interpretations springing to mind.
I certainly don't think that summarising the plot is of any benefit to those considering reading it.
By now they should have a pretty good idea whether this book is for them or not.

The rather suspect doctor Endymion Leer, whom Nathaniel doesn't trust, advises sending Ranulph off to a farm to the west, not far from the Elfin Marches, where he may recuperate; reluctantly Nathaniel agrees.But then an unexpected calamity befalls the students of Miss Primrose Crabapple's academy for young ladies, and Nathaniel finds himself persona non grata for daring to suggest the unthinkable: that Fairyland under its fabled ruler Duke Aubrey is surreptitiously inveigling its way into Dorimare's sensibly ordered life.
The groom who tempts Ranulph with fairy fruit is called Willy Wisp; Nathaniel finds peace in the burial ground known as the Fields of Grammary at the highest point of Lud, and it is this locus -- as the name suggests -- that proves to be an unexpected interface between Dorimare and Fairyland.
It's also an allegory - or probably several - and beautifully written - and I'm in love.Full review:I think the first thing you need to know about Lud-in-the-Mist is that the book’s own back cover description is misleading.* Yes, Lud-in-the-Mist is the story of a small town grappling with its relations to the mythical land of Faerie, and yes, it is also the story of Lud’s mayor Nathaniel Chanticleer coming to grips with his own past and his family life.
Among the things it is ‘more’ are: a murder mystery that feels like it was set in the Shire, an allegory (or perhaps several), a satire, an amalgamation of British folklore, fairy tales, and Child Ballads, and a book full of beautiful language and wordplay.
I'm not a big fan of this sort of fantasy. It's a good read as this thing goes, just not my kind of stuff. Whimsical fairy tale with a bit of a grim side to it that is hard to categorize. Probably a bit of an influence on authors like Neil Gaiman. Nod and a wink kind of stuff that is charming and sly at the same time.
I can't believe it took me so long to read this! It's a classic fantasy novel, totally essential to anyone who loves this type of book. After reading this book, it seems that there's a whole tradition of literature descended directly from this story. Unlike Tolkien ( who I love ) this is a more modern take on folklore and human nature but at the same time it reaches back far into primal things. I can really see where writers like Neil Gaiman and Suzanne Clarke are coming from.
Si os gusta el folclore y los cuentos de hadas tenéis que leer Entrebrumas. es difícil hoy día encontrar historias con hadas así de buenas, de auténticas y enraizadas en el fértil suelo de la tradición feerica occidental. Una delicia de libro, contado al ritmo pausado de quien charla junto al fuego.
Weird and wild, but lacking something.
2.5. That’s only for some very beautiful writing, but as my video review shall extrapolate — Gaiman overhyped this one.
Interesting story, lyrical prose.
Like Strange & Norrell, this is more literary fiction than genre fantasy; there’s a political edge to Lud-in-the-Mist, and many classical references (I’m sure I missed most of them), and that forbidden, life-altering fairy fruit is certainly symbolic of something, though interpretations vary.
Also like Strange & Norrell, the book deals in part with the relationship between the human world and faerie – which is neither good nor evil, but mysterious and sinister in its occupants’ murky motivations.
Hope Mirrlees’ novel, Lud-in-the-Mist, had me waffling on my star rating throughout its entirety, often within the space of just a few paragraphs.
I’ve also become used to a certain quality of action in fantasy novels which was severely lacking in Mirrlees’ book.
Boring and pallid makes me want to slap on a two or one star rating and be done with the whole thing.The book’s saving grace was the fabulous writing.
I will therefore take the easy route out, save myself some vacillation and agony, and haphazardly chuck a three star rating onto this quandary of a novel.
It's both elegant and languorous in showing the everyday ways of the city of Lud-In-the-Mist, but as our characters delve further into the mystery of the contraband fairy fruit, becomes menacing and sharp.
There's a real unexpected edge of danger and I genuinely feared for the lives of our central characters more than once.I wish I could put into words why this book has snagged something so deep in my heart.
I've read three other books since, but it's this one that keeps floating through my minds eye when I'm driving to work, or walking on the beach, or about to go to sleep.
A work of art. Read it. NOW
A gothic romance that simultaneously manages to give birth to the ‘living next to fairyland’ sub-genre, that is to say, John Crowley sure as shit read this before he wrote Little, Big. Absolutely delightful – clever and gorgeously written, with just the right dash of melancholy. How lovely fantasy was, before it became hardened into genre! Thanks to Kurt Busiek for the rec.
