https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/390711.Noble_House
Business is war! This is the fourth novel of the "Asian Saga" by James Clavell. TV MINISERIES V. NOVEL: DAWN OF HONG KONG I loved the TV miniseries adaptation of Noble House, starring Pierce Brosnan, Deborah Raffin, John Rhys-Davies and Ben Masters. In fact, I can say that it's my favorite TV miniseries. I have it on DVD and crossing fingers that they'd release it on bluray anytime soon.So, it was logical that I'd want to read the original novel......boy! I didn't think that it was so thick!And
Ian Dunross Struan, Tai-Pan of Struan's, Noble House of whole Hong Kong.Never gets old, never gets tired of mentioning.
Struan's is a very old company, founded in the 1800s, and it wasn't easy to do, so it was needed to ask for favors to make possible the company which eventually would become the Noble House.Those favors "turned" into four coins, divided in halves, where one half of each of the four coins were kept under the watch of the Tai-Pan in excercise of Struan's, with a unbreakable promise that when any of the other half-coins would be presented, the handler of the half-coin can ask for......anything.Two half-coins were already presented, one is missing, but......one was too near of Struan's, supposedly in safe hands, but......things in Hong Kong tend to change of hands too fast, and now the current owner knows well the power that the half-coin encloses!
In many ways, this is my favorite Clavell novel.
It's a blockbuster of a novel in every sense, bringing equal amounts of entertainment and intellectual provocation.
And Peter Marlowe, who is Clavell's stand in for himself from King Rat, runs throughout the novel as a fairly important subplot, as an author who has recently achieved literary success with a novel about Changi, and is now researching a novel about Hong Kong (a delightful piece of hyper-fiction, which makes the reader all the more aware that this fictionalized world is based on real people -- the Struans of this world being based on the real life Jardines).
Another fantastic part of Clavell's Asian Saga, this continues the story of the Noble House, created by Dirk Struan in Tai-Pan & continued in Gai-Jin. It is set in Hong Kong & takes place over a week or so in 1963.
That's NOT the chronological order, the order I'd highly suggest reading them in.Shōgun - Japan 1600, 1100 pages, published 1975 Tai-Pan - Hong Kong 1841, 725 pages, pub 1966Gai-Jin - Japan 1862-3, 1250 pages, pub 1993King Rat - WWII Japanese prison camp holding Allied POWs, 350 pages, pub 1962Noble House - Hong Kong 1963, 1375 pages, pub 1986Whirlwind - Iran 1979, 1200 pages, pub 1986If you're tight on time, my suggestion would be to read King Rat or Shōgun as stand alones.
If you can find the time, Tai-Pan, Gai-Jin, & Noble House make a great trilogy.
I've been reading a book of Clavell's Asian Saga per year since college, a privileged position on my reading list accorded to him because I so enjoyed Shogun, Tai-pan and King Rat.The plot of this novel moves at a snail's pace for 1100 pages, and only picks up after that, at which point you've been reading for months and still have an equivalent of a reasonably sized novel to go.
The action is also fascinating, since all of it takes place in scenes of tense negotiation in board rooms and pool halls and race tracks, rather than in any kind of violence.And I will say that I enjoyed the last 300 pages or so when the pace picked up and stuff started being tied together.
The summer of 1990, I worked on a project in Phoenix, AZ.
I was the only project team member in Phoenix, and my personality is not the kind to go out exploring on my own.
So a summer of plane flights and evenings alone were the perfect time to read this book.
I had a wonderful hotel room with a balcony facing northwest and almost every evening I would return to the hotel and sit out on the balcony and read this book until the sun went down.I loved the book and the escape it gate me from my loneliness that summer!!
The follow up to Tai-pan.
Clavell famously visited Hong Kong and ingratiated himself with the high society of the island.
He based his story around many real events, which he garnered from those very same socialites.
The building that tumbled down the mountain side during inclement weather was owned by my old landlord, Oscar Wong.
He used to tell me of the day james Clavell came to interview him about that night.
An epic battle between the Jardine's, Swire and the new Chinese Hong's who started to rise in the early seventies.
A great read, especially for those that live or have lived in Hong Kong.
A long book (as are all my favorites) but a very interesting read and one which I highly recommend!Since I am reviewing the audible.com version I must also comment on the talent of one of the most talented readers on audible, John Lee. I have listened to many previous books by John Lee, and I have always enjoyed them.
However, I have never listened to a book that allowed John to display his talent as well as this one.
Lee did an excellent job at all the different accents, the different personalities and the distinct situations.I recommend Clavell's "Noble House" yet in particular I recommend John Lee's rendition of this great asian saga.
I wish it could go on forever. The audiobook is perfection :-)
The Asian Saga: the story of a Hong Kong business dynasty.
This epic saga of a great British mercantile house in Hong Kong in the early 1960s is a 1400 page tome whose plot takes place in the space of one week.
In Noble House, you get the feel of a staunchly capitalistic Hong Kong, a place that makes the setting of "The Jungle" look like a worker's paradise!
Clavell's hero, like most of Clavell's heroes, is an alpha male and the absolute monarch of the family business which controls much of Hong Kong's commerce and power.
That's a pretty heavy week, even for Hong Kong tycoon family.
If you haven't read James Clavell's Asian Saga you are depriving yourself of an amazing journey that begins in the 15th century in Japan's feudal Shogunate period, capturing your attention and your imagination with "Shogun," and refuses to let go as you move through the series with Tai Pan, Gai Jin, King Rat, Noble House and finally Whirlwind.
However, don't let that scare you away as I promise you won't be left wanting.I recognize that this review is supposed to be specific to Nobel House, but every book in the series is a high five-stars, so dive in with Shogun and lose yourself in one of the most amazing stories ever told.
Popular fiction bordering on great.
As with many of James Clavell's works they could easily be viewed as dated rather than a period work or 'historical fiction'.
This view of mine is based on how Clavell relates the contemporaneous social and political views of the time in his works.
Whether he was writing for the ages is doubtful, but the plot and story is timeless.
Greed and intrigue and power are always sound subjects on which to build a tale.Dated or not I've got to read this and several of the authors works again for probably the first time in twenty or more years.
If you read this, you will understand why "May you live in interesting times!" is a curse in the Hong kong Cantonese culture!
But the content documents a time/people I know intimately.
For that reason, it is a good start to understanding how complicated it is and how many world powers and non have their mittens in the continued existence of Hong kong.
congregated on one little island and those 6.5million Hong kongers who "hosted" this little ...hmm..."love in" (sic.
I'm being sarcastic...slightly...there was no "love" involved....)Read it and say hi to some of the people for me!
Не толкова добра, колкото "Шогун" или поне на мен така ми се стори. Хубавото е, че освен като продължение на "Тай-пан", в "Търговска къща" Клавел продължава историите на някои от героите си от предишните си книги, дори и на тези от "Шогун". Действието се развива бързо и няма как да ти доскучее, докато я четеш. Героите са многопластови, изградени с много мисъл и план.
Not quite as good as Tai-pan, but a continuation of it & anyone who liked the first will like this. Is almost as well done. Set in the 1960's, it's similar in a lot of ways to Tai-Pan. One of the cool things is Clavell writes himself into this book as a reporter, Peter Marlow. It's not a huge part, but fun.
Последните няколко месеца прекарах в един непознат за мен край на света Китай или по точни Хонгконг. Благодарение на Клавел успях да се запозная с тяхната култура и обичай. Страхотен , динамичен и завладяващ роман. Нямах търпение да чета напред за да разбра какво ли се случва , но сега ми е някак тъжно че стигнах финала. Толкова много ме заинтригува че си слагам Хонгконг в списъка с местата на които бих искала да отида.
Noble House merupakan salah satu karya yang ditulis oleh James Clavell.
Novel ini merupakan salah satu novel daripada siri The Asian Saga yang meliputi:a) Shogunb) Tai-Panc) Gai-Jind) King Rate) Noble Housef) WhirlwindSetakat ini,saya hanya membaca Shogun dan Noble House.
Tetapi,seperti Shogun,membaca Noble House merupakan suatu pengalaman pembacaan yang sangat mengasyikkan dan mengagumkan!
Mungkin boleh saya simpulkan bahawa terdapat pelbagai elemen seperti cinta,pengkhianatan,thriller,korporat,espionage, dan lain-lain elemen yang berkaitan.
Tambahan pula,Clavell merupakan seorang story-teller yang sangat bagus.
Walaupun Noble House boleh dibaca secara berasingan,namun,untuk pemahaman yang lebih baik,adalah lebih bagus berbuat demikian.
Hal ini kerana terdapat perkaitan yang sering kali dibangkitkan di dalam novel ini.
Actual rating is 3.5 stars, but Clavell you know...This book had some great moments (like connection
4.5 Clavell est fidèle à lui-même! Les intrigues s'enchaînent à un rythme effréné. On y découvre le Hong Kong des années 60; rencontre de l'Orient et de l'Occident dans le contexte économique et politique précaire de la Guerre Froide. À lire... captivant du début à la fin, à l'instar de 2 autres de ses chefs d'œuvre : Taï-pan et Shogun!
Wow... this was a good book... no, scratch that... this was a GREAT book. It built upon all of his previous novels, including Shogun. It has to be one of my favorites of his.
This book re-created that effect...I don't know how the author classified the novel, but for me this is an interesting mix of business and thriller.
The reader is one of the few to know what is going on some of the time with most of the other people grasping at straws they only think may exist.
This adds incredible levels of complexity, with the reader trying to figure out at every point how the next piece of information their favourite character--whoever that is, and there are plenty of options--is affected by whatever new fact surfaced most recently.
Epic novel!
1400+ pages but I made it.
Very readable novel with lots of subplots going on which I really enjoyed.
There were a couple of things that bothered me though.
One was a scene between Casey and Quillan on his yacht in which, to my mind at least, her reaction was fantastical and extremely unrealistic (or likely!).
I also wonder if that scene would be written like that today (this book is 38 years old!).
If this book is to believed their conversations mostly consist of insulting each other!
But overall a great read with lots of action.
Big let down in the annual tradition of reading a James Clavell book. Hong Kong of the 1960s is hardly as interesting as the one in Tai Pan or Japan in Shogun. Rather than being a great story layered with rich historical undercurrents, this book is a weird mix of glorified post-colonial gentry, pseudo feminism and cringe-worthy romance writing. The fact that this book is a 1400 page monster with several unfulfilled arcs and at least 20 pointless characters with elaborate backstories makes me angrier.
The incredible saga of the development and exploitation of modern Hong Kong. Best novel ever written, maybe.
A very large book with an incredible amount of engaging sub-plots that you completely forget what the point of the book is (if there is one), and just get lost in the myriad of well-written characters and an accurate portrayal of being a businessman in a 1960s Hong Kong.
There is a lot going on in this book, which actually keeps the length of the book interesting and exciting.
This book has a lot of intrigue and drama, but at the end it seems to be pieced all together nicely.
I very much enjoyed the book and looking forward to see what other Asian Saga adventures entail.
What a monster of a book/story, even by Clavell standards.
I enjoyed NH - 3.5stars - but the story and subplots were convoluted.
I loved Shogun and really liked Tai-Pan. Gai-Jin, not quite as much.
If you enjoyed the earlier books in his Asian Saga then I'd recommend NH.
Go read Shogun and Tai-Pan first.
Had mentioned to him how much I had enjoyed Shogun and at the time I was reading Tai Pan (I think?) Bob began talking about NH.
I couldn't remember ever ordering it and had since forgot about my conversation with Bob earlier that summer.
There were parts of this book that were really good and exciting, but other parts were very podding and I found myself frustrated with them.Shogun was so interesting because Blackthorne/Anjin was immersed in Japanese culture and had to learn how to survive and fit within it, but the rest of the books did not follow this formula.
It would have been nice if Clavell had written another book about a European stuck/stranded in another culture - it would be fun to see him try to deal with Chinese life and etc.Noble House is not without its good parts, but again, some parts were really boring, and this book could have done with a good trimming-down and paring away of some of the subplots that bogged this story down.
A great business novel with a large cast of larger than life characters from governors to coolies in the cauldron that is Hong Kong.
The characters themselves are far removed from anyone I have ever met and operate in a moral framework that is utterly alien.
Yet one can't help but sympathize with them as every one of them goes about achieving their own aims with ruthless rationality.At a deeper level this book also represents Clavell's political philosophy.
Hong Kong is depicted as a Capitalist experiment in the backyard of the expanding Communism of the 1960s.
The Chinese are shown to be utterly enigmatic yet totally rational.
Almost four years after devouring Tai-pan I finally came back to visit Struan's and Hong Kong.
I'd been looking forward to it for a while, and overall I wasn't disappointed - the same elements that made Tai-pan such an entertaining read for me were present here in spades.
Interesting characters, scheming and intrigue that combine business, politics, and contemporary world events, and rich descriptions of life in Hong Kong.
Overall it was a compelling read - I think the best indicator of whether you'll enjoy it or not is what you thought of Tai-pan.
VAST AND VASTLY ENTERTAINING."...the poor fool still doesn't understand that we Chinese are not stupid foreign devils - or devils from the Eastern Sea - who'll line up patiently for hours.
With the extra added attraction of some very colorful, Runyonesque, character names and a smattering of Runyonesque dialog.Recommendation: The highest, for entertaining, page-turning reading.
Gods are the same as people: good and bad, lazy and strong, sweet and sour, stupid and wise!" - page 1022Adobe Digital Edit (ePub), 1,288 pages.
