https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/41055.Street_of_the_Five_Moons
Continuing from the first in the series.
Heroine trades up for a better, or at least much less dull, grade of boyfriend, rendering the series interestingly non-monogamous.
Again more suspense than romance, and more history and art than either; the onstage parts of the romance are mainly banter, although pretty good banter.
He does send her a ring at the end, but whether it is an art forgery (appalling) or a major museum theft (considerably more appalling) is left neatly up in the air, much like Vicky's judgment of John.
Made me laugh either way.
I treat myself to Vicky Bliss sparsely.
Something fantastic about the realm of Vicky Bliss is that they are gothic mysteries; more mysterious, with an enchanting flavour of the past....
Each novel, exploring a different European country, was current: starting in 1973.
Forty years ago aren't so different and are infinitely more relatable.
Alas, my 4½-year wait for the next Vicky novel, landed on a weak one.
A love interest whom I've read continues in other novels, is a boor.
However this novel deflated into banal repartee.
A weak Vicky novel is, nonetheless, superior to most of Amelia's.
A fun read, a relatively fast read. Vicky Bliss is quite delightful being resouceful, blonde, curvaceous and brainy. (appearances can be deceptive)Loved the setting of the novel, the references to art and culture. The highlight of the novel was the repartee between the ambiguous John and Vicky. Some of their dialogue and snarky asides were priceless. Written in a light hearted vein which I enjoyed. A refreshing departure from my usual reading fare. You often forget just how engaging some of these "older" novels are.
A fun read and, quite frankly, a better starting place to the series than the first. It's a touch dated (written in the 70s), but Vicky's snark is delightful. I do wish she wasn't quite so prone to relatively serious errors in judgment—it undermines her supposed intelligence, even if she does cope well in extricating herself from the consequences. Oh, and I really hope Sir John shows up in later books. Which means I'm actually looking forward to later books. Huh...
Ah yeah, now we're talkin'.
John is dashing, incorrigible, absolutely infuriating, and he charms my socks right off while he's busily charming Vicky against her better judgment.There may be places more classically romantic than Rome in which this novel could have been set, but I'm hard pressed to think of any of them.
It's a wonderful backdrop against which to stage breakings and enterings, priceless (and stolen) art objects, nighttime chases, kidnappings, crisscrossed communications, and the obligatory wounding of the aforementioned handsome, dashing, and infuriating hero.
This is classic Elizabeth Peters, and fun from the first word to the last.
Will little to no evidence or even a case for that matter, Vicky yets off to Rome in search of an explanation for a dead body in Munich with a mysterious note in his pocket along with an excellent forged piece of jewelry.Vicky in spite of her intelligence, hasn't an ounce of common sense and blatantly leaves clues to her shenanigans and they is surprised when she is kidnapped.
Sure he's charming but he's also an asshat at times using more force than necessary and with a lady (relatively speaking) at that.At the end of the first book I thought I liked Vicky and was looking forward to reading further in the series since I hear it gets better.
A comfort read for me - just plain fun.
But instead of being your omnicompetent nosy/adventurying protagonist, that is able to do a triple backflip out of any awkward situation and somehow land on her feet, Vicky Bliss is impetuatous and impulsive and often runs into a situation like a bull in a china shop, not considering all of the ramifications until two minutes too late!
It really *is* fun.It's just that, well, even if Vicky doesn't always think things through first, I do find that she shows a ridiculous lack of concern for her own well-being, particularly given that the events of Book #1 in the series happened not that long ago, and the sort of behaviour she displayed in it almost got her killed.
I love the banter between him and Vicky a lot.
I have a very good friend who is also a reader and I think she will enjoy this one much more than I did. I would almost classify this as "chick lit," a term I rarely use and basically dislike. Goodreads does classify it as "mystery," "fiction," and "romance." This was an okay read for me, but very shallow characterization. Lots of action. It doesn't leave me with a desire to read more in this series. Unless I hit a reading slump and just want something rather "mindless" to help jump-start the brain a bit.
I decided to give this series another shot after not really liking  Borrower of the Night all that much.
Although several people commented that the introduction of John Smythe (or "Smythe," really) improved things vastly, I didn't really find that to be the case.
John is actually described on the basis that he looks like Peter Wimsey, but *cough* — Sir, you are no Peter Wimsey!
Sayers', well, I'd have even more things I'd want to read than I already do.
But Peters evokes the comparison herself, and then does not look favorable in light of it.
After reading all the Amelia Peabody books, I wanted to continue with the Vicky Bliss series, but honestly, even after the second book, it doesn't work for me in the way the A.P. books did - not very original (once I read the first series), not very convincing nor likeable characters, and to be honest, I miss my old friends Sethos and Ramses - John Smythe just doesn't make the cut.
In this book, Vicky meets John Smythe (pronounced Smith), a jewel thief, who becomes a running character throughout the series.
I read one of this series years and years ago (I have no idea which one it was) but I remember the book having an element of mystery and romance to it (but way more focused on mystery).
When I read the first book, it did not even remotely feel like what I remembered because John was not a character in that book at all.
Come to find out, he wasn't in the book at all.However, John Smythe is introduced in this book and he provides romance and comedy to the mystery.
A perennial favorite—never disappoints.Beautiful, bonde Vicky Bliss holds a doctorate in art history, but too few people—men especially—can see beyond her centerfold proportions to the brain beneath. When an almost undetectable forgery of a famous piece of Dark Ages jewelry shows up on a corpse in the back alleys of Munich, the local police send Vicky to Rome to investigate. The search takes her to the Via delle Cinque Luna and an equally blond, handsome Englishman. Too bad he turns out to be a thief, an art forger, and part of the very criminal gang that Vicky is hunting....
I really like Vicky Bliss. She's intelligent, sexy, adventurous, impulsive, and funny.I highly recommend Elizabeth Peters already because of my love for her other character, Amelia Peabody, and now I have another reason to love this author.
Exploring a new character from this favorite author. I was not disappointed!
The librarian at the school where I work was a huge Vicky Bliss fan.
I am a huge fan of Amelia Peabody so I decided to give this new heroine a try.
First, I read Borrower of the Night and found it to be just okay.
Then I read Night Train to Memphis, which was bloody brilliant.
But it's the pairing of Vicky and John that really makes the series click.
It's the perfect pairing that harkens back to the witty repartee of the screwball comedies and Hitchcockian couples of yesteryear.
I wonder what new swindle will need to be thwarted?
I found out a little about Elizabeth Peters.
She has written two books on ancient Egypt (both of which have been continuously in print since first publication), but has primarily written mystery and suspense novels.
Elizabeth Peters is a nom de plume, as is Barbara Michaels.
(Real name is Barbara Mertz.) Mertz has written approximately a gajillion novels.I thought that Peters/Mertz's personal life admirable enough to go search out this sequal, which I have to say I liked better than the first.
I liked this one enough that I think I'll go search out #3.
I read Elizabeth peters back when I was a teenager...I read the Amelia Peabody adventures.
I hadn't really read any others til a quick trip to the library had me pulling her books off the shelves just so I had something to take home (i had a few minutes to spare and choose to spend them at the library but I had to make my book selections FAST!)I ended up hooked on these Vicki Bliss mysteries.
I caught some kind of flu bug, had to rest in bed, and these fun loving adventures were the only thing keeping me sane!
I just love him and all their witty repartee.A real joy.
A great fun read that still stands the test of time (though written over 20 years ago).
As much as I adore Peters's Amelia Peabody series, I can't work up much enthusiasm for these Vicky Bliss books.
I thought the 1st one was terrible, and though this one was better, I almost put it down several times in the first half.
It did get better after that, with some interesting characters and a cliched but still fun premise and action.
I waited a few years between books 1 and 2.
I might get to number 3 next year.
I recommend Amelia Peabody series wholeheartedly though.
SIR JOHN SMYTH! I want more!This was slow in places (view spoiler)[it felt like it took forever for them to escape (hide spoiler)], but, overall, I was really into it. More so than the first one. I like the (presumably) permanent cast of characters a lot.Though I do wish that Vicky wasn't the only "good" female character.
Elizabeth Peters is my favorite brain candy author - she is smart to satirize even the genre she occupies. I always laugh and usually finish the books in a day.
#2 in the Vicky Bliss series. Enter John Smythe, one of my favorite fictional male characters. He and Vicky's verbal spars are just one of the reasons I love this series so much.
Fun, but definitely sillier than the previous installment.

I am in love with Elizabeth Peters' Amelia Peabody series, reading and re-reading them often, so I thought that I'd give her Vicky Bliss series a try. The first one was pretty terrible, more of a prequel than an introduction to the series. This one is supposed to kick things off and it was...fine, I guess. A bit dated, perhaps. Terribly stereotypical with the Playboy bunny intellectual who still suffers from serious and dangerous lapses in judgement. But more engaging than the first and you only dislike most of the characters, not all of them.
anyone who knows me knows that i’m an elizabeth peters fangirl first and foremost, so it may come as a surprise that i’ve never read this one before. but i have just finished it and guys. i loved it. this book introduced one of my favorite characters and was brimming with vicky’s sass and smarts. i’m not particularly interested in jewel heists, so it’s safe to say i didn’t read it for the plot, but every other aspect was, if i may, blissful.
This was one of my favourite books as a teenager, and influenced my current writing. I reread it recently, and while it was 5 stars back then, it's probably only 4 stars now (maybe one more for nostalgia). I love Vicky Bliss - a funny, intelligent art historian/detective, and of course, the mysterious John Smythe who makes his first appearance in this book. Good, clean, fun.
An amusing, tongue-in-cheek mystery with a larger than life heroine. She is an art historian working at a British museum. Some of the best and most intricate pieces of jewellery are possibly fakes. She goes to Rome to investigate, becoming involved with a wealthy family and an intriguing thief. Lots of fun.
These are so much fun; light, quick and funny, but packing a surprising emotional punch, I find myself re-reading when I am at a loose end. In this one the series really gets going; John is the quintessential suave English ne'er do well, a type I find utterly irresistible.
This is an Excellent Peters mystery. I enjoyed this much more than the previous Bliss book or the Jacqueline books. It is still rather dated and fat phobic, but the mystery, adventure and art history are excellent. I loved Vicky’s voice and her vanity and impulsiveness.
