https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1966969.Fire_Study
For me, the Study series has been on a descending scale of awesomeness. A jaunty, double-spaced, fried zombie? Where?! The first book, Poison Study, was awesome and gave you that happy-go-lucky feeling at the end and you want to yell "weeeeeee". The second book, Magic Study, was "eh". It felt somewhat disconnected from the original but still good. This third one, Fire Study, was just plain worn-out and over done, too much going on without much really happening. It had it's moments but mostly it
To sum up, the Study series in descending order: weeeeeee, eh, blah, zombies!!In Fire Study, epic fantasy combines with action in the tale of Yelena, a young woman who has recently discovered her magical abilities and (shocker!) needs to use them to help save the world!When you find a book with an insightful horse that communicates telepathically with it's rider and gives advice while still managing to avoid preaching and be nothing like Ishmael, then normally you would think that you had hit the jackpot!Things I enjoyed about the book:1) Kiki - Insightful and hilarious telepathic talking horse.B) A very batty spirit guide for your journey.3) Making nice with giant snakes![image error]Things I didn't like:A) The endless disguising and playing dress-up.351) All the rehashing and recycling of events.I found myself bothered by one of the character's story lines and much to my surprise, I was annoyed by his absence.
Do you know how long it took me to finish this?
Too long.
After finishing Magic Study, I knew that it would be a mistake to pick up the third book.
(Even though one of all the horrible books I force myself to finish no matter what will kill me one day or the other.
They seem to not add anything to the story even though a lot of (random/predictable, repetitive) things happen and a lor of (banal, flat, sterotypical) characters are introduced.
And to think the first book was so delicious.
What happened?
Though she is currently working on a new series following a side character from the Study books, this is the last one to center on the adventures of Yelena, the convicted murderer, turned poison taster, turned diplomatic liaison.
I felt blue because I'd been expecting more and I ended up finishing it more out of a feeling of obligation than because I was truly engrossed.The story picks up shortly after the events of  Magic Study leave off.
Or rather, very little new stuff happens.What there is is page after page of no one believing Yelena that Roze really is That Evil.
*4.25 SOULFINDING STARS* “There's always another storm. It's the way the world works. Snowstorms, rainstorms, windstorms, sandstorms, and firestorms. Some are fierce and others are small. You have to deal with each one separately, but you need to keep an eye on whats brewing for tomorrow.”  Ahh, be still my beating heart! So sad to see this series end... but thank god for the sequel trilogy that I'm definitely going to read asap! I need more Yelena (and Valek, duh) in my life!This book didn't qu
I need more Yelena (and Valek, duh) in my life!This book didn't quite reach the high standards I'd set because of the previous two books though.
The first 200 pages (which is pretty much half of this book) dragged on and were a bit repetitive even.
Always the same curare shit, Yelena trying to save the day but kind of failing to do so...
At some point I was so annoyed with it all that I wanted to quit!The last 200 pages made up for A LOT though!
The second part definitely had me on the edge of my seat pretty much the entire time.
Ugh. Well, I was obsessed with Poison Study, and Magic Study was pretty good, but this book really didn't satisfy.
For some reason the whole reason I liked the series in the first place dwindled throughout this concluding novel to where I forgot what charmed me in the first place.
I guess an author has to do what he/she thinks the series should do, but it went so far astray from what worked so well initially, I can't help but feel frustrated as a reader.
I will read this authors future work, definitely, but will not be putting this book in the "keeper" pile with Poison Study.
In fact, it got 2 stars from me instead of one just because Snyder eventually delivered what is so painfully expected throughout the whole - excessively long - book.
I caught myself skipping parts, wandering with my mind elsewhere - the Beauty and the Beast cartoon that my kids were watching was more interesting at times - and just being outright irritated with the dragging on and on and on.
Valek appears yet again really late in the book - yes, after that tiresome neverending rescue mission - and again is so secondary to the character of Yelena he seems there just to be her supporting actor.
Life is to short to force yourself to finish a book.Liked the beginning, that was about it. Finally giving up after a week or two!
“There's always another storm. It's the way the world works. Snowstorms, rainstorms, windstorms, sandstorms, and firestorms. Some are fierce and others are small. You have to deal with each one separately, but you need to keep an eye on what’s brewing for tomorrow.”This is actually more of a 4.5 star rating. Yelena is so determined, clever, strong, and stubborn, which makes for a very enjoyable protagonist, but for some reason, it took me about 100 pages before I actually got into the storyline.
Until that 100-page mark, this book didn’t even feel like a finale, just simply another instalment in the series, which is rather disappointing.
At least her brother, Leif, called her out on it: “Truthfully, I didn’t like the distrustful and mean person you became in Ixia.
I absolutely adored how loyal she was to Yelena and how she worried over the safety of her “Lavender Lady.” While a number of aspects of this novel admittedly disappointed me, I did love this book as I was reading it because of how attached I am to this world and its characters.
3 stars for a book in which, once again, Snyder butchers her great characters to keep the story running. Wow, I can hardly believe the series ends like this. Poison Study was amazing, Magic Study was awful, and although Fire Study is slightly better than the second book, it's still not as good as the first one.   “It's the problem with mistakes, they tend to linger.”  (Yelena should tell this to Snyder, not to Cahill) First important thing to know: the plot is almost similar to that of Magic Stu
3 stars for a book in which, once again, Snyder butchers her great characters to keep the story running.
(Yelena should tell this to Snyder, not to Cahill) First important thing to know: the plot is almost similar to that of Magic Study.
Add some new characters and Valek appearing halfway through the story…and that’s basically the plot.But although Fire Study won’t win the originality-price, the book actually started off great.
Which is pretty awful considering Yelena Vs. The One True Villain is the main- and final battle of this book.
“Nothing like having a warrant for your execution to get a girl motivated.” I admired Yelena for her strength, clever mind (Which is, of course, a strength on its own) and her Soulfinder abilities. I loved Valek, his loyalty and respect for her. And I loved their independent relationship so freaking much! Valek and Yelena love each other, but they don't spend every minute of every day together. Or constantly whining and thinking about each other and nothing else. They do other important things
Valek and Yelena love each other, but they don't spend every minute of every day together.
They do other important things - like their job - first.
I loved this aspect of their relationship so so much!They are not only loyal to one another, but also to their work - Valek to the Commander - and their countries.
Valek knows that Yelena can protect and take care of herself very well.
They're one of my biggest otp.And you know what, I even started to like Leif, Yelena's brother, which I didn't think was possible when reading Magic Study.
I ended up finishing this because my curiosity has been restored. Seriously, I couldn't even with this anymore. I lost faith in it BUT I'm just happy I don't have this book chilling on my "Currently-Reading" shelf. It was lowkey bothering me >.<Oh, how I wished this book lived up to my expectations. It was blehYup, it was bleh. This is my review. Good day folks *salutes*
Fire Study was nowhere near as good as Poison Study, unfortunately. I hope the Soulfinder series picks up again.
After all, I had to endure all things Yelena in addition to: Leif copping a tude at the drop of a hatValek getting his hair burnt offYelena getting her hair burnt off People getting accosted and nearly raped by necklace snakes (yes, I’m serious)Cliché stereotypes (Moon Man and all the other Sand Seeds)Clichéd evil masterminds intent on mayhem for no apparent reason5 pages devoted to blowing glass (I’ve been to Gatlinburg thank you, why was the glassblowing tutorial necessary?)But after reading all the above mentioned drivel all I got was an ending that was so grating that I felt as though I had been slapped.
This entire story could have been chucked and should have been as apparently Moon Man holds all the answers to the universe and the only thing needed to defeat the bad guy/gals was for Yelena to ask, which she did not do until page 440.

Unfortunately, this series has gone the way of many "chicks-who-kick-butt" stories go, where apparently no one is capable of doing anything (or thinking, or even desiring to think, for that matter) except for the unflappable, clever, sarcastic heroine. The voice has become modern/mainstream enough that it kills the other-world feel (this Pegasus is lacking true wings). There's some creativity to the world and magic system, so I still enjoyed the book, even if the characters have become flat as the paper they're printed on.
Yes Yes Yes this was a wonderful conculsion...Oh wait...shoot just checked and it's seems to be a series. Yeah!!!!! So much suspense, revelations and plot twist that my head still hurts. I have no regrets from the time invested into this. Love all the characters ( especially Valek and Yelena ). Me after a three day marathon this series: But I'm totally cool with it. I'm in no way panicking or feeling any withdrawal symptoms. You don't believe me?...Whew... well here's a picture of me looking to
Yes Yes Yes this was a wonderful conculsion...Oh wait...shoot just checked and it's seems to be a series. Yeah!!!!! So much suspense, revelations and plot twist that my head still hurts. I have no regrets from the time invested into this. Love all the characters ( especially Valek and Yelena ). Me after a three day marathon this series:
  But I'm totally cool with it. I'm in no way panicking or feeling any withdrawal symptoms. You don't believe me?...Whew... well here's a picture of me looking totally fine and dealing with finishing this awesome three day marathon:
LOVED the first one, thought the second one was good but not as good as the previous, and forced my way through the third one while skipping massive pages and not caring what I missed.Comparing POISON STUDY to MAGIC STUDY and FIRE STUDY, I think what I didn't like the most was the 1st book was so different from the last 2.
I felt like so much of the story (at least in POISON STUDY) was about BOTH Yelena and Valek.
You've been in the midst of trouble ever since you became the Commander's food taster, love. I honestly have 0 idea about what to say in this review. I finished this book 3 hours ago and I'm still like ???? what just happened. This was definitely the hardest of the trilogy to get into. The first 100 pages I wasn't loving but damn the last 300 pages were full of twists and turns and crazy events. I'm still trying to process all that happened in this book. This book seemed to take place over the
I was a little confused as to some of the dynamics of this book and I did forget who half of our problems were but either way I really enjoyed this book.I'm ridiculously happy that this book will not be the end of Yelena and Valek's story because I NEED SO MUCH MORE.
When the book ended I was 200% not prepared to leave these characters but thank god there's more to this story (and luckily it's all published and I own them all so I won't have to wait years for publication).My biggest complaint about this entire series is why is Valek always missing?
3.5/5 stars.I loved this first trilogy of this world!
I haven't read something I loved this much in so long.
I was really hooked on the first book, and although the second book was vastly different that the first, I still enjoyed it enough to give it five stars.Having said that, I didn't like this conclusion as much.
I still love Maria V.
It's just this last book felt a little all over the place.
It was a little bit of a let down.
I still love the world, and I will continue on with the Glass trilogy after a small break.
Fire Study took a different direction than what I thought it would take, it's not bad, I was actually interested in knowing what the outcome would be like, but after finishing the second book my expectations were high and you can feel like the real war is coming.
That made me feel frustrated as a reader, find a sudden change of attitude in the main character was a surprise but maybe the author was looking for something with this, I don't know.Despite this weird beginning, where I felt a little bored and disappointed, I enjoyed the second part of the book, I think the plot really starts there.
Lots of adventure and almost nonstop action, which I like, but Yelena's character development is something I'll have to think on some more. And also, the ending is sort of rushed. Otherwise, another good book in a thoroughly good series.Full review of the Study Trilogy at Wordpress
Wow what a lovely ending!
Rtc.
So I'm kind of embarrassed that it took me so long to read this book.Want my advice?
When you're writing YA (or upper, upper YA as this probably was), it's generally a good thing to have your character deal with rape instead of pretending it didn't happen.
Unless you're writing one of those books where the entire point is that every character sucks and so does life, but I don't think you meant the Study series to be those kind of books.Also, and this is a much smaller issue, everyone's love for the Commander is irritating to me.
The concept has been set so nice and complex; I didn't want to wait a single bit.
In first book of the series (Poison Study), the story setting and Valek saved it.
In 2nd more unique characters and Valek (again) saved it.
But as for 3rd, multiple plots (or pot holes), too many lose ends so even Valek failed to save it.
It felt so rushed, at one point I though I’m reading this - I was not impressed.So overall, great beginning of series, OK mid-series and mediocre ending.
Would I read more of Study or other series?
Sorry, old friend. But i am on-hold zoning you.
And there's a lot more of that in this one, to the point where I pretty much wanted to reach through the book and smack everyone upside their collective and individual heads.There were also parts, especially closer to the beginning, where the set-up of the story seemed like it was taking forever, and I kept thinking "this is the last book in the trilogy - something big better happen soon." Also, there was a lot of repetition of plot points.
People stopped being quite so insufferable, Yelena got a grip (though, in fairness, there are still those unrealistic demands on the poor girl), and things moved along.The ending was not perfect.
The council must debate what to do with Yelena.Meanwhile Yelena has heard that Ferde the Soulstealer is back, and sets out to hunt him down, only to learn that there are more enemies now than those she's fought before.This book was a little disappointing after the decent start of the first in the trilogy.
So the entire book is spent hunting down people who steal people's souls to increse their magical power.
At the end Yelena finds out that the entire magic plane where all people normally take their magic from is composed of...
I really loved this.
It was a beautiful conclusion to the ending and the character development over the series, but in this book alone, was beautiful.
I cannot overlook the beginning though.
I dropped a star because I dnf’d this twice before getting through the beginning.
It was too busy, too confusing, and felt lost compared to the rest of the series.
The author wanted to set up too much information at once and the book felt heavy.
So overall I loved this first trilogy and I’m eager to start the glass series and see how I feel about it.
Fire Study is the 3rd book in the Poison Study series.Yelena's magic has not been seen for centuries, and the last person with her abilities was burned alive at the stake because the magic corrupted him into an evil, power-hunger monster.
Yelena's afraid the same thing will happen to her -- both being consumed by her magic and being burned alive at the stake.
I think the characters introduced in Poison Study were the best developed of all three books, and I enjoyed reading the parts with them the most.
