https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/259920.Marvin_K_Mooney_Will_You_Please_Go_Now_
I probably had it read to me but beyond the funny dog eared Marvin and the pointing fingers on the cover, that's all I remember from those early years.
I'm now reading it to my children.Like Cat in the Hat, Marvin K.
The book is full of intense emotion and lots of shouting which lends itself to overly theatrical performances when read out loud.
was written in the same year that the Watergate scandal broke.
Although the book wasn't written about Nixon, it did lend itself perfectly to the situation.
The time has come and Marvin K.
Soon Marvin K.
Mooney got the message and went.Written in the classic Dr.Suess style, ‘Marvin K.
Mooney will you please go now!’ is fun, quirky and creative.
This book would be a great source for teaching reading skills to KS1 and EAL pupils as its poetic style provides a strong utensil for teaching rhyming and phonetic sounds.
Lastly, it is not known why Marvin K.
Mooney is asked to go, however as a guided reading book this book, it could provide some fun and interesting work for a pupil to delve into the possibility as to why Marvin K.
من راستش از پایانش سر درنیاوردم.. اما اولهاش برام بامزه بود.
They're filled with weird things not normally found in the real world, forcing me to either feed my son's tender, melonlike head with nonsense and hope that what I put in there will never, ever backfire ("Yes, son, that there is a Crunk-Car. Looks like fun, doesn't it?
No, you may not go down there and play with it."), or try to brush it off and focus on the lion or skis or whatever relatively boring thing is on the next page.Oddly, I seem to recall having the same weird discussion with my father when I was somewhat older, pestering him with A) What is a Crunk-Car really?, B) Why don't we see them around?, and C) Who should I talk to in order to rectify that situation?
However, I have to admit that there are a few kids in my neighborhood who have that Marvin K.
Mooney feel to them.There is this one kid that I literally have to force out of my house!
Is it so wrong of me to expect other parents to eventually come get their kid?!
How would you like it if I let my kids stay at your house all day long?
And perhaps letting your little angel know that raiding someone's refrigerator without asking, and then complaining about the contents could possibly be construed as a teensy bit annoying.
One of the reasons I so love Dr. Seuss is because his books are funny, silly, zany - and they sometimes make a really good point in such a sneaky way that kids don't even really realize they are learning to be better by being like Yertle the Turtle or Horton.
No real point to it, which is fine, but the yelling at the character Marvin to GET OUT, well, it seemed a little rude, lol.
I still love all the crazy inventions and of course the creative word use, but not his best by far.
A great book. Raises just as many questions as it answers. Just who is this Marvin K. Mooney? Why does he defiantly refuse to go? Is he making a stand against injustice? Why is a giant hand so obsessed with his expulsion? Unfortunately there may never be answers to these questions leaving readers to forever guess at the truth behind the mystery of Mavin K. Mooney. Toddlers seem to like the book too.
People are always shocked when I say I haven't read Green Eggs and Ham. Instead, I read this one. It is the same kind of set up where Marvin is asked to go away all different ways that rhyme. I used to read this at my doctor's office. I was just reading a review of Yertle the Turtle (which is one I"m not sure I read), and it said that this is about Nixon! Wow, I need to read this as an adult!
One of my husband's favorites to read to our kids. They knew all the lines by heart and could fill in the verse. Alwyas wondered what Marvin did that warranted the wish for him to leave.
SO STINKING CUTE!!!
Mooney Will You Please Go Now" and "Go Dog Dog" were the first two books that I learned to read, perhaps that is why this has always been my favorite Dr. Seuss book.
As easy as this book is to read, the pictures and creativity still have all the Dr. Seuss flare you would expect them to.
The only thing that always confused me about this book was why Marvin was being asked to leave in the first place and why was he being so stubborn about it.
It is about the need for Marvin K.
Moreover the book describes all of the different ways Marvin could do just that.
This book uses a very bright color scheme; it is very reflective of the silly nature of the book.
It is short but can help challenge and expand vocabulary as well as a child’s ability to read out loud.
It also teaches the basics of rhyming.
It is for all these reasons that I would use this book in my classroom.
Challenging vocabulary, expanding the ability to read out loud, and establishing the ability to understand and use rhyme in storytelling.
Another great Dr. Seuss. My 5 yr old reads this level 1 reading book to his younger brothers and loves the rhyming. While my 3 yr old twins love repeating the strict admonishment for Marvin to leave! The pictures are always fun and spark innovation for new creations such as Ga-Zoom made out of Legos. A big favorite in our house.
Marvin K Mooney will probably be the last name I remember when I'm old! LOL
This book was ok.
Summary: This book is about a character named Marvin who does not want to go where he has to go!
Very cute book!
Evaluation: I would recommend this book to early readers in kindergarten and first grade as it is an easy, fun read that students enjoy!Teaching: I could use this book in an english class when discussing repetition as it repeats the same words very often.
As we are reading, I could have students take notes when they hear repetition and then share as a class what the students heard.
This isn't one of my children's books that I always think "Oh, I love that book", but despite that, every time I read it I enjoy it thoroughly.
It also has one of those story endings that catch you unprepared - there's poor Marvin being told in no uncertain terms that he has to go (NOW), throughout which he looks completely unfazed, and then off he goes without a murmur.
Mooney fly, will you please go now!"I love children's books.
So the narrator goes to great lengths to tell Marvin all the ways he could leave, and he doesn't even care which one he chooses, just as long as he GOES!I read this to PreK when they're learning about transportation.
They just like the parts where the narrator yells, "GO!" :)My favorite bit of trivia about this book: Dr. Seuss himself, Ted Geisel, once marked out the name "Marvin K.
Mooney" throughout a copy of the book and replaced it with "Richard M.
Nixon" in order to appease a friend--Art Buchwald--who claimed Seuss had never written anything political.
Nixon resigned 10 days later.
The narrator continuously tells Marvin to go.
He does not care what mode of transportation that Marvin uses to leave.
Finally, Marvin leaves.
This book would be ideal for kindergarteners or first graders because of it repetitive nature.
Students who are rambunctious would love this book.
It would be a great way to help kids learn different modes of transportations.
Small groups could invent a new form of transportation.
In a larger setting, it would be useful for the kids to name different transportation like planes, boats, bicycles, etc.
Sadly, there is not any media related to this book.
There is a long list of ways for Marvin to go: on skates, on skis, in a hat, by bike, on a Zike-Bike, in an old blue shoe, on stilts, by fish, in a crunk-car, by lion's tail, by mail (after stamping self), in a Zumble-Zay, by balloon, by broomstick, by camel in a bureau drawer, by Bumble-Boat, by jet, by Ga-Zoom.
Without the author telling the reader what precipitates the departure, or how the departure occurs, the author gives the final words: "Marvin WENT." This is typical Dr. Seuss -- ending with words that can be a springboard for discussion.
This beginner book is a fun and easy read for kids!
In the book we want Marvin K Mooney to go, by foot or by cow, we don't really care how, just go now!This book screams typical Dr. Seuss just from the cover; many colors, typical font and the same style characters.
With only a couple of words per page, and all of the words being the early childhood words, this is the perfect beginner book.
I would gladly recommend this book to any parent or child that just wants to have a little fun while reading.
* Book Summary Short, easy to read poem book about Marvin K Mooney who refuses to leave. *awards None * Grade Level/ Interest level prek- 3rd Grade* Appropriate Classroom Use Poetry unit/ Phonetics familiarization *Student Who Might Benefit From Reading All students * Small Group Use I would ask students to write their own version or Marvin K mooney * Whole Class Use I would have the class read books like this one to lower grade levels*Related Book In Genre Green Eggs and Ham *Multimedia Connections N/A
This early reader by Dr. Seuss is what I believe he is all about--teaching kids to read in a fun and nonsensical way.
There is really no story line here.
It is time for Marvin K.
Mooney to go so we are asking him to go by any transportation he wishes as long as he goes now.
The interesting repetitiveness is what makes these books so fun.
And while most of the text is quite simple, he throws some new words in like stilts and camels, but the illustrations make it obvious what the words are.Dr. Seuss is a master at early readers.
Had the lovely opportunity to listen to my husband read this to a three-year-old while we were babysitting. Man, the guy who really wants Marvin to go is so mad. And with no explanation. But Seuss was fun like that. Didn't give you all the info. I suppose it would be fun to come up with ideas as to why Marvin needs to leave ...
Wonderful beginning reader with repetition, large print, varying text size to keep a reader's interest and bright, bold illustrations. This was one of my older sister's favorite books, perhaps because she could read this to me and loudly tell me how the "time has come to go, go, GO, I don't care how" without getting in trouble from our mom. Highly recommended.
This is another one of the Dr. Seuss classics that introduces children to basic forms of poetry. In the story, an individual tells Marvin K. Mooney to go away in a variety of different ways. I would like to use this book in my future classroom as a tool to introduce poetry that is both clever and engaging enough for young students.
This a silly book for any child who loves to smile and laugh. The book shows children how to have an open mind and teaches them that anything is possible through imagination. They will enjoy listening to all the different ways the character, Mooney, is asked to leave a place. The book is also filled with colorful illustrations and rhyming words.
It entertained a group of 3 yr olds, but I think it would appeal even more to slightly older kids. I can imagine someone just getting into phonics and becoming interested in words really enjoying the repetition of short words like "go" and "now".
Great Dr. Seuss classic. It has all the usual quirky Dr Seuss things - strange vehicles, odd animals, super-short phrases, and easy rhymes. A fun, quick read for little ones and beginning readers. I just can't help to wonder WHY... Marvin K. Mooney had to leave.
Poor Marvin!!! His parentals are trying sooo hard to rid him from their lives any way they possibly can!!! Boat, train, car train, even, oddly enough, camels with books on their humps!!! He'll leave of course.... eventually. Classic Seuss...but then, what else did you expect? KING LEAR????
