https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/198332.Inca_Gold
The positives:The long opening scene (about 100+ pages) was a great introduction to the characters and was laid out really well and was an easy read with action coming thick and fast.
Constantly reminded Dirk Pitt & Al Giordino were long-time friends - When Pitt said something crazy and people were shocked at his crazy plans and statements everyone looks at him like a mad man.
Anything Clive Cussler is always entertaining but Inca Gold is my favorite. DO NOT read any Clive Cussler books that he co-wrote with his son Dirk Cussler because they are pretty boring. The books he has co-written with Paul Kemporas are pretty good.
This was my first Clive Cussler book and I was hooked from the very first 10 pages. High adventure and constant action.
3.5Intrattenimento puro, personaggi belli anche se forse un po’ stereotipati, interessanti nozioni sull’arte e la cultura dei popoli andini precolombiani, un protagonista che si fa adorare, situazioni spassose o intrippanti, appassionanti e coinvolgenti. Libro letto per la All-Around-The-World Book Challenge ✈, paese: Perù 🇵🇪
3.5Intrattenimento puro, personaggi belli anche se forse un po’ stereotipati, interessanti nozioni sull’arte e la cultura dei popoli andini precolombiani, un protagonista che si fa adorare, situazioni spassose o intrippanti, appassionanti e coinvolgenti. Libro letto per la All-Around-The-World Book Challenge ✈️, paese: Perù 🇵🇪
The prickly phallic looking one I named Dirk Pitt.
Since this Pitt adventure takes place in Mexico and Pitt survives all odds (like surely my cactus will) I felt it an honor justly deserved.
This is the adventure, like Orpheus, where they drift though an underground chasm in an updated version of the river Stix.
The plot of this novel is, once again, superfluous, and to be read for the authors inventive ‘adventure writing 101.’ If I am critical of his books, why do I keep reading them?
The same way carnival rides are great.
The author extends this sequence longer than any other I can recall.
This man seriously needs an editor. The bane of a published author is laziness in writing. Purple language, passive language and female characters that react in ways men would like but from a woman's perspective feel fake. On the other hand, he sure knows how to pack action into a scene and this Dirk Pitt character is a cross between James Bond and Indiana Jones. Not much emotion, but one dangerous episode to the next in exotic locations.
Clive Cussler - the greatest adventure novelist and underwater explorer. This book is an excellent escape to the world of action and suspense, so much action and adventure packed in one little book. I liked the characters (especially the hero Dirk Pit and his humor), the mysteries and intrigues, the historical plot... Won't be the last read book written by Clive Cussler.
Total brain candy. I was addicted to Clive Cussler books for about a year, trying to de-stress myself from the honors classes I was taking in high school. And I imaged Dirk Pitt to be such a hottie, too!
In 1578, Sir Francis Drake captures a Spanish galleon filled with Inca gold and silver and a key to a lost treasure.
As the galleon is sailed back to England, an underwater earthquake causes a massive tidal wave sweeping it into the jungle, where it vanishes into history.In 1998, a group of archaeologists diving in the depth of sacrificial pool high in the Andes of Peru are rescued from drowning in the nick of time by Dirk Pitt a NUMA agent who happens to be on a marine expedition near by.
Their lives are once again in jeopardy when smugglers with the intent of uncovering lost ancient Inca treasures discover them.
This novel is an interesting story about Dirk Pitt, a NUMA agent who saves two archeologists from drowning.
They are searching for an ancient Inca treasure containing a ton of silver and gold.
However, the situation turns ugly when a family syndicate who deals with stealing ancient works of art, gets their hand on the ancient treasure.
Pitt and his group of archeologists are forced to go into action and do whatever is neccessary to get the treasure back.
This book is full of suspense and action, and it keeps you on the edge of your seat all the way throughout, and I would definetely reccomend it to anyone looking for a good read.
I am a big fan of Clive Cussler's Dirk Pitt adventures.
This book follows Cussler's later style with an historic story followed by the present day narrative.
However, in this book, the present day feels a little split in two, which isn't a bad thing, but sometimes you feel that there was an attempt to just drag the story out a little bit.Two love interests for Pitt, Congresswoman Loren Smith and Dr Shannon Kelsey.
The author himself makes an appearance part way through the story, following on the traditions of the previous books.
Ja een Dirk Pitt. Pitt , die toevallig in de buurt is als er twee archeologen in Peru niet meer uit een oude diepe bron komen waar zij duiken voor een archeologische opgraving. Deze actie rijdt een niets ontziende tegenstander in de wielen. Er ontspint zich weer een echte Dirk Pitt. Hij raakt namelijk verstikt in de netten van een bende gewelddadige kunstsmokkelaars die de legendarische schatten van de Inka's op het spoor zijn.
This is the 1st Clive Cussler novel that I've read and to date, its the best one that I've read! (I've read 5 or 6 so far) Dirk Pitt is a true hero! I love this book and I could read it again .. This book has it all!
fun adventure book - kind of like a cross between indiana jones and james bond.
should be another great Dirk Pitt adventure
October 24, 2014Just a brief thought while reading - in the earlier books, it was said that Dirk was well into his mid-40s; in this book he is described as being in his 'lower forties' yet the main story takes place nearly ten years after the events described in 'Raise the Titanic', 'Vixen 3', and 'Night Probe.' I did not see any references to having been a pilot in Vietnam, so perhaps the author is hoping audiences overlook this changing of Dirk's autobiography.I did find it funny that when Dirk and Shannon are talking on the NUMA vessel after escaping the grave robbers, they are described as 'not having any real attraction for each other.' I think that is the first time where Dirk no longer finds the woman he rescued attractive and worth continuing the pursuit.
It's not good writing but it clearly provides something its audience wants or it wouldn't be a bestseller.The writing was surprising bad.
Author cameos are odd.The good people are for the most part handsome or beautiful.
The bad guys are also looking for the same lost treasure.
Dirk is handsome, smart, courageous, daring, stoic, loyal, skilled, strong, pretty much unkillable, and takes decisive actions to achieve his goals.
The writing was so bad that I assumed this must have been Cussler's first novel.
They must enjoy this kind of "boys own adventure" the way some women enjoy romance novels.
There is a lot of action and adventure going on and it's obvious that the author did his fair share of research and documentation but I don't think that it's meant for people like me who like to overthink, I think it's rather intended for people that just want to kill some time having nothing else better to do.
I kept finding holes in the plot and this book is quite obviously made with the intention to become the screenplay for a movie someday (there is already the movie Sahara made after the book with the same name by the same author), the heroes go through all kinds of adversities, evade and kill the bad guys, all ends well and the main hero gets the girl at the end (he gets two girls actually)...classic Hollywood movie.
One of my most inspiring English teachers in high school had recommended Clive Cussler as one of the many authors that I should check out at some point. It took me about 8 years, but I finally got around to that part of my bookshelf, and what a treat it was.I didn't learn that  Inca Gold  was the 12th installment in the ongoing adventure series helmed by larger-than-life hero Dirk Pitt until after I polished this beauty off, but that alone speaks to how well written this novel is. There are plen
was the 12th installment in the ongoing adventure series helmed by larger-than-life hero Dirk Pitt until after I polished this beauty off, but that alone speaks to how well written this novel is.
fearless exploration, historical fiction that you'd swear has to be authentic, and stunts that'll knock your teeth out, you get Dirk Pitt.It's a shame Hollywood has botched up turning this franchise into movies so far, according to accounts that I've read about film adaptations 
Clive Cussler’s Inca Gold brings the reader on a thrilling adventure with the main character, Dirk Pitt, as he searches for one of the greatest treasures ever lost. With a new obstacle or danger around every corner, readers can’t help but keep the pages turning. Also, with surprising plot twists, the reader learns that the first solution presented is not always the best one. While this book was exciting and entertaining, there were some aspects where the predictability exhausted some of the ene
Clive Cussler’s Inca Gold brings the reader on a thrilling adventure with the main character, Dirk Pitt, as he searches for one of the greatest treasures ever lost.
First, the main character’s invincible-like qualities made it seem as though there was never any true danger.
like a phantom...” (251), the author made it seem as though no harm would ever really come to the main character.
So, the main character’s qualities failed to create any sense of danger or anxiety.
This style of writing paired with an exciting plot line and surprising twists make up an excellent book.
Also, this book contains figurative language that complements the action-packed plot line.
He is a character that unlike MacGyver has no qualms about using a gun but he also relies on his wit to solve problems.Inca Gold is the 12th novel in a series created by Clive Cussler.
The self-proclaimed Maoist revolutionary Tupac Amaru leaves Pitt for dead in the well and takes the group of archeologists, students and Al Giordino hostage.
The biggest challenge is finding out who was really the head of the tomb robbers.The beauty of Clive Cussler's novels is his ability to bring history to life by prefacing his Dirk Pitt and other novels with historical events.
After this which isn't very far into the book, things really pick up when they are captured by treasure hunters, all except Dirk who was left to die.That is only the tip of the iceberg for this action packed and suspenseful ride that Clive Cussler has created for us!
This has to be a favorite my favorite from the Dirk Pitt Series so far.
Not that I diss the world saving because Dirk makes one hell of a super hero.Again we have another appearance from Cussler in the book, which as also I think is ironic and slightly funny.I definitely recommend this book to anyone and everyone, especially for fans of the Dirk Pitt series!
Cussler even acknowledges the fact by stating that Pitt is “on the lower end of forty.” But just because the bruises may last a little longer doesn’t mean he and Al Giordino aren’t up for whatever adventure comes their way.
I liked the fact that Pitt wasn’t the only one setting traps and bringing justice at the end; he had help from several other parties, which makes sense considering how large and widespread the Solpemachaco was.
Because we have to look back into history to see ourselves.” – Dirk Pitt“Ironclads in a desert, Noah’s Ark on a mountain, Spanish galleons in a jungle.
The book I chose for my May book review was Inca Gold by Clive Cussler. The main character, Dirk Pitt, and his best friend Al Giordino are called on a mission to recue two American archaeologists from a sacrificial pool. This is only the beginning. Behind the plot to kill the archaeologists is a crime family of illegal art and ancient artifact stealers. This family, the Zolars, also want the ancient Chachapoyan treasure. Pitt and Giordino not only have to stop the Zolars, who will kill to get w
The book I chose for my May book review was Inca Gold by Clive Cussler.
The main character, Dirk Pitt, and his best friend Al Giordino are called on a mission to recue two American archaeologists from a sacrificial pool.
This family, the Zolars, also want the ancient Chachapoyan treasure.
Pitt and Giordino not only have to stop the Zolars, who will kill to get what they want, but also rescue the archaeologists and many others who are captured by the evil syndicates.
As with the other Clive Cussler books I’ve read starring Dirk Pitt, it was an adventure all the way through.
The book Inca Gold is no different; as usual Clive gives the readers a firsthand view of the events of the history of the mystery.
Eventually after many great endangering scenarios Dirk finds himself in a race to find the lost treasure of the Spanish galleon before an international artifact smuggling business.
This book is great because it is not only full of great action scenes, funny commentary, and great mystery; but because it is written in a easy to read and understand way that allows any reader to pick up this adventure book and read it.
I understand why it captured my interest in the 7th grade (I wanted to be Indiana Jones AND a Marine Biologist) and I understand why a decade and a half has made it less enjoyable for me.It's one of those books though, if you like Clive's novels, and if you've read any of his others, this one does exactly what you'd expect.:: Previous Review - 5 stars (2003)::This was the first Clive Cussler novel I read.
I was in the 7th grade and for once found a book that didn't bore me to tears.
I really enjoyed this book and as usual, it sent me to the internet to read more about chachapoyan culture and the incas.
My only beef is the continued use of both metric and non metric measurements.
It's mostly done with parentheses, but at one point dirk says something like, "he was tall...close to seven feet, or 190cm." Like many Americans, I learned the metric system and can do the conversions, but don't have an intuitive sense of how much the measurements are.
Other than that, this may be my favorite dirk pitt book yet.
Weer een aardig boek, volgens het bekende Cussler stramien. Stukje uit de oudheid, daarna sprong naar het heden. Dirk red een vrouw uit handen van boeven, en uiteindelijk ook nog eens een grote goudschat. Ondertussen helpt hij ook nog eens mee om een smokkelbende op te rollen.Wat een beetje irritant begint te worden is dat Clive Cussler zich zelf steeds in een verhaal schrijft. De ene keer als eigenaar van een bijzonder jacht, dan weer als een bar-eigenaar.O, en Pitt krijgt een (ondergrondse) rivier naar zich genoemd. Er zijn betere maar ook slechtere boeken van Cussler dan deze.
Companionship, mystery, death defying survival against the odds and cunning wit make Inca Gold thourghly enjoyable from start to finish.
Our story takes is to the Illegal artifacts theft and smuggling trade.
The story is one which would capture the devil may care feeling of any adventurous soul.
Dirk Pitt always seems to find a way to lead his NUMA team through the most difficult of odds.
Following Dirk and his team to first find the map and then after the treasure itself, whilst in competition from the most renowned art theives in history, produces a high octane story in the most exotic of places.
For the obvious reason of having a story circling around multiple fields I adore reading, I immensely enjoyed Inca Gold; my first Clive Cussler book.
I have even read almost all those names of Inca kings before this!Clive Cussler appearing as himself, as I see, is very cheesy.
I believe that the story is way better off with the author being the narrator.
The worst thing about this book is the Unit conversion.
But later on, they started to appear even in the dialogues!
Anyway, this was a fascinating book.
'My kind of a book', I would say!
