https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/52635.The_Hellbound_Heart
You see, Frank thought he was signing up for a time of his life when he summoned the gruesome Cenobites, but he made a mistake of not reading the terms and conditions when he summoned them.
Now he is stuck in eternal torment in Cenobite world and it's not the figurative eternal torment that poets and lovers feel, but quite literal eternal torment where his flesh is ripped from his body until he is nothing but chunks of meat.
Read terms and conditions.Clive Braker's novella, Hellbound heart is a gory masterpiece because it is original, bloody and well crafted.
Rare RARE instance in which the movie actually surpasses the novel.
Then again, Barker directed his own creation on celluloid, so there's that.
"Hellraiser" is not even included in the sacred list of horror films I adore (the genre which may be the hardest to love, easiest to make fun of, and which for that reason is my favorite), but no one can't say that it isn't mega creepy & creative.
The merger of pleasure and pain-- Ahhh!This novella (which can be digested in one sitting) packs quite a punch.
This is an important book for the genre, one that showcases Clive Barker's poetics in a compact way.
Please allow me to introduce myself. Actually, let's save the introductions for when I meet up with you later this evening, in the wee hours of the night.First things first, as an inhabitant of the Dimension of Everlasting Pain I am not exactly a disinterested party when it comes to reviewing this novella. But I do feel I am able to provide a relatively unbiased review of this famous work, despite my intimate knowledge of all of the delightful and inspiring torture tableaux on display.The Hellbo
Actually, let's save the introductions for when I meet up with you later this evening, in the wee hours of the night.First things first, as an inhabitant of the Dimension of Everlasting Pain I am not exactly a disinterested party when it comes to reviewing this novella.
But I do feel I am able to provide a relatively unbiased review of this famous work, despite my intimate knowledge of all of the delightful and inspiring torture tableaux on display.The Hellbound Heart is well-written, yes.
My Lord and Master Pinhead is also better portrayed in the movie version; on the page he comes across as a quaint deus ex machina.
Julia and Frank had something going on way back when, if you know what I mean, and Rory ignores her misgivings about the house and remains blissfully ignorant while reveling in Julia’s beauty.
Though I don’t remember Kirsty being a love interest, I thought she was the husband’s kid?Julia starts to settle in but there’s one room with sealed blinds that unnerves but attracts her.
Kirsty, who is a home-wrecker sort in this book, stumbles upon Julia and Frank doing bad things (that’s what you get Miss Nosey-pants) and takes off running with The Box in her hands.
I don't even like to go inside a haunted house attraction at the carnival.But I do love reading horror and maybe that's where I get to be adventurous and risky.I've read a few Barkers before this one.I didn't finish Mister B Gone.
He enjoys gore and blood...lots and lots of that and blurring the line between what is torture and what is sex.And none of it really is my thing.I don't really want a story like this with no character investment.
I'm laughing even as I type this because I'm sure diehard Barker fans are like STFU, Sadie!
Barker fans, have it *your* way but I want my horror reads *my* way.This was a no for me.
Completely unlocking the device will notify the Cenobites that someone has solved the puzzle, which is their cue to make an appearance.
The problem is: Franks interpretation of pleasure is very different to that of the Cenobites - which he will soon find out.It's been a long time since I've seen the movie, Hellraiser - but there were some scenes I remember from the original film.
Personally, I preferred the movie, as the book didn't have much Cenobite time; just a brief appearance - I would have liked to have learned more about them - and more about The Gash.I just hope the other book I bought (Imajica) is easier to read than this one - as that novel is the same length as Stephen King's 'It.'
Having seen Hellraiser before having read this book, I would not have predicted that Clive Barker was a beautiful writer.
These sadomasochistic beings don't differentiate between pleasure and pain - something that Frank learns pretty quickly.
The way Barker depicts the cenobites is terrifying and my only real complaint with regards to this story is that I'm left wanting more.
It's a great introduction to Barker's work as I'm already getting extremely excited for my next venture, which will be the first Books of Blood - highly recommended by every Barker fan on instagram.
Frank's looking to return to the fields we know and the price is blood...As part of my continuing horror education, I had to give Clive Barker a shot, thus The Hellbound Heart.This novella is pretty memorable but I wouldn't say I was scared by it.
Clive Barker has a pretty twisted imagination.
The Cenobites and their idea of pleasure was pretty horrible.
I really liked the idea of a wooden puzzle box that opens a gateway to another dimension.Julie gradually falling under the spell of what was left of Frank was pretty cool.
This being a Clive Barker book:The mind-bendingly horrific looking Cenobites show hapless Frank their idea of “pleasure”, which is definitely not in accordance with what it says in his dictionary, and leave him as a stain on the floor.
The Hellbound Heart is a terrific and horrific read if you like your horror bloody.
Although I enjoyed the book, The Hellbound Heart, the movie version, Hellraiser - with the awesomely cheesy blue and yellow 80's FX - is a bit better and mainly because it was more fully realized.And, as a fun note, John Kozak, the singer of my band, Of The Arcane, had his head sculpted by our friend, Mitch Gonzales, into the likeness of Pinhead, and was presented to Clive at the very first signing we attended of his at The Dark Carnival bookstore, in Berkeley, CA.
John Kozak Pinhead
So I know Clive Barker wrote this novella decades before HP7p1 would come out but nevertheless, the movie impacted my reading enjoyment.
As he becomes more substantial there is a period of time where all I could picture was some weird-looking seahorse thing flapping around in a corner.
I feel a bit foolish that I didn’t know the movie Hellraiser was based on this novella until my book club buddy told me at our meeting.
That picture looks like that guy Pinhead from that horror movie!” Cue the cricket noises.
Yes, for the weirdness.Do I want to watch the movie now?
One of the better (possibly the best) books of Clive Barker's that I've read. I like the sparse structure with a clean straight through narrative.Extraordinary idea and well executed. Will suit horror fans. While there is some gore, it's never gratuitous or over done.The imagery in this book is remarkable for me in that it stays with me. It's moved into 'iconic,' status.
This is only the second book of his I have ever read but I already know he and I are going to be best friends for life.
She’s not all that happy with her life but goes along through the motions because it’s the right thing to do.
Frank is Rory’s brother and he lives his life freely, constantly searching for the next big thing.
Frank likes pleasure.
Kristy, naturally, starts snooping around and gets tangled into a very tricky web.This book reminds me of why I love horror.
Clive Barker spins a great story- especially considering how much is packd into this short little book!
Some of Barker's books are very entertaining reads and The Hellbound Heart is one such - an engrossing horror love story of the more twisted variety.The story centers around Frank Cotton, his brother Rory and Rory's wife Julia.Frank is a jaded hedonist, a man who has traveled the world to experience every drug, every pleasure, sexual or otherwise.
Tony figures out the puzzle box and after summoning the Cenobites, is dragged off to the fun and frivolity of eternity in the pleasure/pain universe and exquisitely tortured until he doesn't really know the difference between the two anymore.My main takeaway from The Hellbound Heart is that if you are going to open a door to a dimension of infinite pain be sure and spray a few bodily fluids around first.
But, besides all that, it is in a way a demented, twisted, dark, fairy-tale like love story.
It focuses on a woman who believes she is in love with her husband’s brother, and would do anything to reclaim that passionate night she once held with him.The story is as much fantasy as it is horror, with a bit of realism intertwined.
Barker goes for the jugular from the first page with summaries of pain, ending with a hopeless sort of ending that doesn’t make one want to sleep well at night.I always thought that Barker’s style seemed to a change a bit depending on what he was writing.
I've now officially read three Clive Barker books to completion.
At times I wish that this book had been written entirely from Frank's point of view.
Adverbs are used to death, and it seems as if Clive made a pact with devil wherein he must use the word "din" as many times as possible in 164 pages.
Splatter-fiends will find their fix in this fearsome freakshow, trust the fuck outta me!In summation: The best Clive Barker I've managed to finish because it's just like the movie.
The book and the movie can both be completed in the same amount of time, so take your pick.
The Hellbound Heart starts with Lemarchand’s box and Frank's desire to solve the intricate puzzle and in turn find the promised new world, a province infinitely far from the room in which he sat, toying as the music rings.
One of the bedrooms in the house just doesn't feel right to Julia, Rory and a cut hand bring blood into the room.
Julia sees something and the blood vanishes as if consumed, is Frank still here.
That was it.' Rory and Kirsty are caught up in the insanity and ferocity, unwitting ingredients in a mixture of blood and violence, and it all comes back to Lemarchand’s box.
One wonders whether Clive is secretly enjoying the further irony that his baby spawned, just the thing he was commenting on, or just taking it to the bank.The Cenobites and the Lamarchand's Configuration are two of the great creations in horror and certainly one of the reasons the novella resonates so well with horror fans (ignore the fact that one of the films ruins the creation, makes the Cenobites "good" and mindful of their former lives).In any case, the novella is as perfect a modern horror story as there ever was written and Barker, and few others, have ever equaled it though he/they have tried.
So this is the novella that spawned Hellraiser, and perhaps the thing responsible for patent leather fashion...Everything about this novella is grotesque and gory, but not that scary. Unless one finds bloody red meat and facial piercings scary.
He sentido como en 150 páginas la configuración de Lemarchand rasgaba mis piel y pervertía mi alma. Un lujazo de novela para los amantes del terror más sangriento, vivo y crudo.
Well, that was... short? But appropriately terrifying.The Hellbound Heart is listed at 176 pages, but it benefits from a very generous formatting and might be closer to 100 if it didn't. I mean, what else is there to say about the novella that spawned the Hellraiser movies that hasn't been said already? It's an Hitcockian thriller with pounds of flesh flying at you faster than in any David Cronenberg movie. But it's also an exploration of the boundaries between cosmic, body and psychological horror. It's an important work and I had a blast reading it. It's just... very... succinct.
La primavera, se si protrae per più di una settimana oltre il suo tempo naturale, comincia a patire l'assenza dell'estate che ponga fine ai giorni della promessa perpetua.
L'estate dal suo canto comincia ben presto a invocare qualcosa che plachi la sua calura e il più ubere degli autunni alla lunga si stanca della sua generosità e reclama una rapida, aspra gelata che lo sterilizzi.
Persino l'inverno, la più dura delle stagioni, la più implacabile, sogna all'apparire di febbraio la fiamma che presto lo scioglierà.
Ogni cosa si stanca con il tempo e comincia a cercare un suo contrario che la salvi da se stessa.https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1M4FG...
Una scatola la cui apertura promette l’accesso a un mondo di piaceri inenarrabili, governato dai Cenobiti; un uomo, Frank, alla continua ricerca di sensazioni nuove; una coppia male assortita -Julia e Rory, fratello di Frank; una casa da tempo disabitata, che nasconde un mistero.
Questi gli ingredienti del romanzo di Clive Barker, una storia cupa, claustrofobica e adrenalinica, che si svolge per lo più in una stanza inquietante al confine tra realtà e Male.
I finally got to read the masterpiece that started it all and well… I was horrified all right to actually admit that I liked the Hellraiser movies better than this book.
Luckily his brother’s wife Julia is a total psycho who has been entranced by Frank and who discovers that he still exists in a creepy old house except that he’s part of it in a way, so she finds him victims in her love sick way and bleeds them into the floors for him to absorb.
Take two people, Frank and Julia:Now imagine a box that you think if opened you'll find a sexual experience that will blow your mind, kindof like a Genie's lamp and your wishing for pure pleasure.
Instead you open the box and get an eternity of torture.
That's what Frank did...Now imagine being so in love it become obsessive.
Well that's what Julia did for Frank....Personally, I'm going to stay away from any kind of puzzle boxes.
A legend when it comes to horror.
Making horror feel more Intellectual and eloquent, than spooky and terrifying.
So, my experience/relationship with The HellBound Heart/Hellraiser Universe is a little different than everyone else's.Since I was like -2 years old when the original book was published I never read it then.
The antagonist Julia's internal conflicts and emotions are also developed in a fuller detail in between the pages rather than the film reel.Instead of a preference for either, I wouldn't consider a HellRaiser/Hellbound Heart experience complete without an experience of both.As for the book itself, its a good, if short read.
I was excited to read this novella when I found out the movie Hellraiser was based on it!
I love horror and to be honest when it comes to books I hardly pick up that genre.
I definitely would want to try out more of his horror books!
I liked his imagination!
This novella was entertaining and a fast read, worked its nostalgic magic :) It wasnt amazing but still very good and inviting to read more from this author.
The masters of pain :) and when it comes to the gore it was raw and oldschool!I did not like the 'come to Daddy' phrase, gag!
Never watched Hellraiser...(Don't judge)Never read a Clive Barker book...(Ok, fucking judge me already)Barker lays down some flowery lexicon wrapped in a tortilla of blood and gore.
Words are repeated bukkake style.
And these aren't cool words like foreskin and lollipop.
I wish I had read this book as a teen but even now as a jaded 'adult' it still packs a punch.I'm probably the only horror fan who hadn't read this classic but if you're still one of those lost souls - go read it, now.Guess it's time to go watch Hellraiser.
And suddenly it becomes totally logical that Barker was considered (not least by S King himself) "the future of horror" in the mid to late 80's and that the movie based on this was a success.
In other words, I simply loved this story, the characters are brilliant (hardly any of them likeable though).
The prose - passive, matter-of-fact and a bit dreamlike - which I was not 100 % comfortable with starting out - I got to think fit the storyline perfectly.
And the ending, of course, is to die for - and some wish for just that.
This I definitely dug, because felt less like an Everyman's horror experience in Everytown, USA and more of some alien, parallel-reality English soap opera with fucked up interdimensional horror--complete with a big, cold house with very own Room, as in That Room or The Room.I read (listened) to this in conjunction with making my way through Barker's first three volumes of Books of Blood, and am consistently surprised at how imaginative, well-formed and gelled these early works of his are.
