https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/88579.The_Siamese_Twin_Mystery
In the reviewer’s opinion there is little reason to read this book unless one is a particular fan of Queen, or feels a pressing need to read every book in this series, or is interesting in development of American detective stories or wishes to peer into one aspect of popular culture at the time the book was written.
And while Stout’s sparse style reveals an amazing amount of about characters Queen’s more convoluted writing results in two-dimensional characters that are often little more than stereotypes.Both authors center most of their books around a detective who, the reader is told, is brilliant.
This reviewer noticed it immediately for the simple reason that the knowledge necessary to “catch” the clue was central to discovering the murder in an earlier Queen novel.
Not the best in terms of the detection--in fact, Ellery makes a lot of mistakes, and his ingenuity causes more problems than it solves. But the setting--a mountaintop house in the middle of an ever-encroaching forest fire--might be the best setting of any Ellery Queen, and the tension is very well-maintained (sometimes in spite of the mystery).
Great setting! But the detectives (Ellery and his dad) have it wrong three times, and one of the suspects dies by the hand of one of them just to keep the plot going. It may be a classic Ellery Queen but is is a bit of a mess.
This was the first I had heard of the Ellery Queen series of mysteries written in the 1930s and later, and I was glued to the mystery through to the end.The characters were well developed and seemed real to me.
The story is a new slant to what I'm familiar with, in that the main detective Ellery and his father initially make the incorrect conclusions about the murder victim.
The book seemed like a cross between a game of Clue, a Stephen King novel, and a cozy mystery.I will definitely seek out other Ellery Queen books.
I've got two ratings here: 4 stars for the book, 2 stars for the audio version.The story is one of Queen's better ones - Ellery and Dad flee a forest fire and have to take refuge in the strange mansion of an even stranger doctor, Dr John Xavier.
What is she doing here?It doesn't take long for the first murder - Dr Xavier is found dead with a torn six of spades card in his hand.
The book is excellent - if you can get over Ellery's swelled head and juvenile antics - but the audiobook is extremely annoying.
I'm going to hide the next bit, as it could well be considered a spoiler.(view spoiler)[Ellery and his dad get the answers wrong several times before finally coming to the impressive conclusion at the end.
When your detective actively provides red herrings, it's a bit unfair to the reader, I would think.
(hide spoiler)]Without spoilers, let me just say that our detectives aren't terribly bright, despite their reputations.
Άλλο ένα ωραίο whodunit, πιο κλειστοφοβικό αυτήν τη φορά. Πατέρας και γιος, εξαιτίας πυρκαγιάς, απομονώνονται σε μια έπαυλη γεμάτη μυστικά. Δύο θύματα, ένας δολοφόνος. Είναι η σύζυγος, είναι ο αδερφός, είναι η πελάτισσα; Ανατριαχιαστική η περίπτωση των σιαμίων αδελφών και των περιαμάτων που έκανε ο νεκρός πια γιατρός για να πετύχει τη χειρουργική αφαίρεση. Αλλά ποιο το κίνητρο; Και όλα αυτά ενώ η φωτιά πλησιάζει το σπίτι!!! Στα ελληνικά από τον Πάπυρο το 1973 και την εφημερίδα Το Βήμα το 2009.
Too many characters, too poorly developed, confusing. Not worth reading.
So-so mystery, but excellent prose!
The early Ellery Queen novels helped define the genre of mysteries, including the false solution before the true solution and gather all the suspects in one place for the big reveal.
There was a TV show with Jim Hutton as Ellery Queen, and just before the last commercial break, he would break the fourth wall and tell the TV viewers they now had all the clues to solve the crime.
Commercial break followed by all the suspects in one place for the big reveal.
This was my first experience reading a full-length Ellery Queen mystery- and I found it thoroughly entertaining. The story abounds in humor, atmosphere, suspense and well-drawn characters. The fact that it takes place almost entirely inside a hilltop mansion- with occasional forays outside- and with a forest fire about to trap everyone inside the building, only makes the tale more intriguing. And to finally become acquainted with the famous Ellery and his father, both smart alecks in their own right, made me an instant fan. I'll be reading more of these two sleuths in the future.
Cada vez que me creo segura de saber quien es el asesino en un libro de Ellery, este particular joven me sorprende al final con quien es el que uno menos se imagina, bueno aquí fue lo mismo y eso que el asesino hasta confeso empezando prácticamente el libro jajajajaja...pero estuvo muy bueno, sobretodo debido a la difícil y peligrosa situación en la que se encontraban Ellery y su padre.
Really disappointed in this re-release of one of the early Ellery whodunits. Not P.C., filled with false accusations, and simply not worth one's time. I'll have to try some of the later mysteries to see if the cousins became better, more involving writers.
This was interesting and one of the easier to read. I totally miss guessed the killer.
Kept me guessingThis was an interesting story. It started out well and kept my interest until I finished the book. I will read more Ellery Queen books.
Classic Ellery Queen with obscure clues, a life-threatening situation, a couple of murders, the unflappable Inspector and the abstracted Ellery all making for a delicious read.
Molto gustoso,intelligente,ambientazione unica.Ti prende come “Il Paese del Maleficio” ma l’indagine ha qualcosa in più.
The authors behind Queen were two cousins named Frederick Dannay and Manfred Bennington Lee, but the stories, books, and magazines are written as if he's a real person who writes mysteries and works with his father, a police detective, to solve mysteries.
The Siamese Twin Mystery opens with Queen and the Inspector (the affectionate title used for Queen's father) driving hopelessly along some godforsaken mountain road when they discover their paths blocked in every direction by a raging forest fire.
Boteler and Quillan in The Mandarin Mystery This novel reminded me quite a bit of The Mandarin Mystery, an Ellery Queen movie I've used a number of times in my Literary Genres: Detective Fiction course.
Though the Ellery Queen novels usually appeal most to the puzzle solver in me, the mystery solution for this title is a stretch in credibility even for the typically incredible standards of this series. However the setting and atmosphere for this story were memorable and enjoyable enough that I cheerfully reread this one some 25 years later.
Fortunately, there is a mansion at the top of the mountain, inhabited by a famous Doctor and his many guests.
Unfortunately, by the next morning, the doctor is found shot dead in his study.
Trapped in a mansion with a killer, the Queens have to discover who did it while at the same time trying to find a way to get everyone off the mountain before then fire engulfs them.Overall, this was an excellent mystery with a beautifully growing tension as the fire gets closer and closer to the house.
The killer's identity is brilliantly handled.
I really liked this book.
Old-fashion written, mystery, love...
This is my first novel by Ellery queen but hopefully not last one.
It was easy, logical, clever...
you can't really imagine how the end will be like because it has several turns that make you feel literally like one of the detectives, there is point where you lose the connection and you don't know what to think.
I liked the outcome, it covers all my expectations.
Plus I made my research about Ellery queen, those 2 cool an creative writers that made such a good job for a long time an they had the chance to show it to the world while living...

I thought I had solved the murder here. I thought this would be the easiest - read worst - mystery ever. The fact that it's not the cleverest either doesn't deter from the fact that the actual worth of the story is readable. The writers tried to add some filler to stretch this book to acceptable proportions. Nonetheless (SPOILERS) the old french adage "cherchez la femme" is well meant. I leave you with a recommendation and my taciturnity; I'll say no more.
Not my favourite Queen mystery. OK there's a locked room of sorts and some clues, but the presence of other suspenseful elements draws attention away from the crime. The whole medical/experimental sub-plot was icky and UN-PC. Three stars is generous; 2.5 is closer. By the end I didn't care who dun it.
The entire story felt weak to me. The possibilities of the New York setting accentuate queen's investigations. This remote location and crime highlights what doesn't work so well with his writing. Besides, Without Velie there's no humor.
Uno dei migliori Queen. L'enigma formale non è fra i migliori, ma il romanzo è ricchissimo di atmosfera, e le prime pagine sono indimenticabili. Adirittura oserei dire che le prime 20 pagine son le migliori di tutta la produzione queeniana.
This was an interesting premise but it didn't really come together for me. There were too many gaping holes and I was disappointed in Ellery and his father. They definitely weren't on their game. It was a long and convoluted tale of murder on a burning mountain. Good but not great.
I liked the mysterious atmosphere, and the mystery wasn't bad. Ellery explains some things a little too thoroughly, I thought. And, they could have cut down on the four letter words. Overall, I enjoyed it aside from these faults.
. A classic country house mystery, all the cliches intact.Not much by way of character and the writing is functional rather than anything else.Very much a period piece now, but well done, and the mystery is genuinely mysterious.
Loved it.....kept me guessing until the end....not a long book which is my pet peeve for most modern novels, it seems.
