https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6677.The_Gremlins
On the plus side, once I finish everything he's ever written, I can always go back through again!The Gremlins was Roald Dahl's first published children's book and functioned as a piece of war propaganda for Disney.Roald Dahl joined the RAF (Royal Air Force) almost as soon as the WWII started.
If they can train the Gremlins to help, rather than destroy, then the RAF could stand a great chance at surviving.
Disney bought the rights to this one and planned on making an animated film, only by the time the project got off of the ground...folks weren't interested and the war-film market was flooded.
A fascinating book by Roald Dahl...sure to please Disney fans.
Oh, it was a happy and peaceful life that these little men led – until the humans came.” And so begins the story of the Gremlins who were torn from their homes when the humans decided to build a factory for airplane production.
We will make mischief for them, and we will harry and tease the men who fly them, until we obtain some satisfaction for all the harm that has been done to us.’The pilots finally figured out a way to appease these pesky Gremlins: feeding them Transatlantic-special-deliver-airmail stamps.
This story was originally meant to be a film by Walt Disney but was dropped and never completed but the book was still published.
The little gremlins are sketchy and not as attractive as most Disney characters, but they never got the chance to be developed.
The style is definately WW2 which is not a drawback, but it will never get a chance to be restored at any point in the future.
It is definately worth a look, to see the developement of the Disney style at this povital point in history, to read a story by Dahl, and how the Disney artists have progressed from the original Mikey Mouse, to what is being created now.
A collaboration between classic Disney and Roald Dahl? Definitely a missed opportunity!! :(
We have a copy of this book that was given to Dad when it was published.
It's now 70ish years old, has been dropped in at least one bath we know of, made it's way from England to Australia, and is simply a little worse for wear.But I am so glad it made this journey as it allowed me to read a book that no one else my family that I know of has read.
As a kid, that was so incredibly cool!!And it was a book my Dad loved so much that when I was little, I was showered in Roald Dahl's other books.
A cute little story set in WWII.
Pretty cute, but not at all standard for Roald Dahl.
The introductory essay establishes the material nicely, and the bones of what would have been an interesting story are visible. Perhaps soon someone not afeared of the Disney legal machine will make it a reality and not just mock-up art and outlines.
The next time he went up in his plane, with a 102° fever, Gus didn’t count on a large group of Gremlins working against him as well as a German Heinkel, whose pilot proceeded to shoot his plane up.
The school flourished and grew as more and more Gremlins discovered they liked being good.When Gus finally left the hospital, he was no longer fit for flying.
And so they did and Gus was able to return to doing what he loved - flying.Gremlins were well known among RAF pilots, who talked about them all the time.
"The Gremlins" is the first book written by Roald Dahl and illustrated by Leonard Martin, in about 1943.
Interestingly, Roald Dahl collaborated with Walt Disney to create this story in the context of World War II and the fact that Disney was run by Armed Forces, when a lot of war propaganda for all ages was being made.
Although this book is written by one of my favorite children's authors, Roald Dahl, I do not recommend this book.
Further, it is difficult to understand, and only someone who has a lot of knowledge about World War II will be able to understand this story in my opinion.
Probably the best way to enjoy an animated feature that never saw the light of day. Leonard Maltin gives us an introduction explaining the history and development of this film. It is not exactly known why the film was never completed, but it might be because it would not have had stood the test of time. So what we get is a storybook form of the film containing what the story might have been. Production artwork from the film is used for illustrations.
I love the concept of this book, and generally Dahl's books are amazing. This is the first published story that he wrote, so it's a little weaker than his later work for children: the story arc falls a little flat. However, the illustrations are pretty amazing, and I love the idea of mischievous gremlins wreaking havoc during World War II. I so wish this movie had made it to production!
The Gremlins was the first publication of Dahl who went on to write many excellent children's books including Charlie and the Chocolate Factory. This story could use some polish but is an entertaining tale developed from perhaps more general stories or ideas in the RAF. The illustrations are very nice. The book includes the character Fifinella from which the mascot for the WASPS was taken.
Imaginative debut children's story from the great Roald Dahl, a story that was featured quite prominently in other films and cartoons. No, it's not Charlie and the Chocolate Factory, Matilda, or any of the other greats, but it's still good and deserves a wider distribution than its seen thus far.
what a ridiculously long title
"The Gremlins" is the author's first book and it gives a humorous, creative look at the horrors of the time.Often planes were shot down by the enemy.But sometimes they came down for no good reason.Perhaps because of Gremlins in the works?It isn't what we (today) could call a "children's book" - there are no children in it - but it does take an approach to the subject that would appeal to a child.
Even the illustrations are of a time.There are teases of future-Dahl in the whimsy, wonderful creatures with fully developed histories, and the tragicomedy.But it isn't a great book.
The most interesting aspect of this book was the four page introduction by Leonard Maltin, which unfolds the story of how Dahl had paired up with the brothers Disney (Walt and Roy) in the days of the Second World War to bring this tale of mythical creatures to life in a full-length animated cartoon.
This intro really seems to paint Walt Disney as a bit of a power-hungry control freak (trying to suppress others from using the Gremlin idea, though this was already a very popular folk tale and had been used in Bugs Bunny shorts).
The GremlinsBy Flight Lieutenant Roald Dahl3 Stars * * *This book fills out the 'Book Blog Bingo Board' category of 'A 'classic' book written before 1950'.This book is about a pilot in World War 2 who finds some 'Gremlins' on his plane one day.
They also help a pilot pass a medical exam which he had to pass to be able to fly again.I quite liked this book because it is a good story that relates to the time that it was written in.
Overall it is a good book with an easy to follow story line.
I really wanted to give it 4 stars... But I have to be honest the story is not that good. The illustrations are very nice but this first story of Dahl is not that good. Is his first one, so we have to take that into consideration, but to be honest for this collaboration between Dahl and Disney brothers I was expecting a little bit more.... or way more. Nevertheless the forward is interesting and the story is funny. Is a nice book for little children, but even for little children it can be way more.
I've never read this. Good book. I absolutely loved the illustrations.I think I might rate it 3.5 stars.
Read for the 2015 Reading Challenge: A popular author's first bookI love Roald Dahl's books! I thought this book was cute and it brought back memories of reading his books when i was younger.
I'm reading all of Roald Dahl's books this summer (or at least trying to!) from their original publishing dates.
This was Dahl's first book and was all ready to be a Disney film.
Due to a multitude of bumps in the road, it never came to be the feature film it was designed to be.
Before the story even begins, a lot of backstory is given which I really appreciated.
You can tell that this story is just the tip of the Roald Dahl iceberg.
He is the ultimate story teller, and reading this gets me excited to re-read his creative classics like the BFG, Matilda, and of course, Charlie and the Chocolate Factory.
Esta es la primera historia publicada de Roal Dahl y la que le abrió muchas puertas pues fue publicada por Walt Disney. Realmente me costo bastante encontrarla y tenía muchas expectativas y al leer esta historia quedaron más que satisfechas. Esta historia no solo es súper tierna y llena de imaginación, además tiene un mensaje súper importante (según mi opinión) sobre la forma de ver y afrontar los problemas y además sobre el respeto hacia otras personas o seres vivos.
This was a cute little story set in a very not-cute time period.The illustrations were wonderful; I loved those little stamp-eating creatures with their tiny horns and very Disney-like noses.Plus, it has a nice little introduction discussing the story itself and the Gremlins animated motion picture that never was.
I have read better books from Dahl than this.
Weird. I can see why they decided not to make this into a movie.
Unfortunately, when you decide to read everything someone has written you come up against a few unfortunate reads.
During the World Wars a great number of books were written for children about aspects of military life.
Gremlins are tiny creatures that go through planes (and most mechanical objects) and totally mess them up.
In this story Roald Dahl decides to create a little school for them so they can repair planes rather than destroy them.
Didn't think that one through, did you?This book just...
I don't understand why they decided to work with creatures that nearly murdered them for fun.
Whatever the reasons, the film was never made but the story made it out there for the world to see.Essentially, gremlins are little people who once lived in trees until their forest was destroyed to make way for a plane factory for the war.
In this story, their antics eventually get turned toward good deeds and they make friends with the pilots.I can't help but see a link here between the gremlins and The Minpins from the Dahl book of the same name.
Minpins also were little people that lived in trees, used suction boots to not fall, and had their forest threatened.
However, this is one of Dahl's first stories; perhaps it's due to youth--or to the mutual lovefest described in the book's forward--but the dumbed-down taint of Disney's hackneyed approach to stories is spread thickly and liberally throughout this picture book.
The story of the Gremlins is disjointed by poor writing that flows like a backed-up toilet, and the entire book reads more like a rough summary sketch of the movie that was never made vs.
a fully developed story.
Fans of Disney's work will be delighted to discover this book as it's in print for the first time, thanks to the efforts of Dark Horse publishing house.
Dahl fans, on the other hand, will cry.
