https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/96999.Courage
Ive read this book twice, and each time afterward felt the need to purchase 20 copies and give them to total strangers. Osho's approach to religion/spirituality is simple, he uses common sense and fearless boldness to knock down our preconcieved notions of our approach to life. This is an amazing, easy read, and should be required reading for all.
اشو یك متفكر، یك روشنگر است با افكار منحصر به فرد خود كه به نظر .من تعدادیشون بسیار جالب و تامل برانگیزه"عشق مسموم شده، اما هنوز تخریب نشده است. میشود سم را از درونتاندور كرد. شست و شو داد. تو میتوانی همه ی انچه جامعه به زور به خوردت داده بالا بیاوری. میتوانی تمام عقاید، تمام مسائل شرطی شده را دور بریزی و آزاد شوی"
There are always obstacles and fears at every point, and the danger is always to give up and lose sight of one's dream.
The dream is what gives life it's freshness.
As Goethe said, 'Whosoever continually strives upward - him can we save'.
I have always continually strived towards the object of my desire, though the road has often been perilous and obstructions have often been placed in my path.
There are always bright new horizons of hope if the fear is pushed through.
The fear itself is a positive thing, inviting one to unknown lands and wonderful new experiences.
Yes, sometimes there have been great enlightened people in the world, too- a Buddha, a Jesus, a Krishna, A Mohammed.
You can think about a horse who flies in the sky, who is made of gold, but nothing is new.
So thinking goes in a circle, goes on knowing the known again and again.
With so many religious people, the world is so irreligious- how is this miracle happening?
People have "cultivated" trust.
Trust has become a belief, not an experience.
Pg 25 So remember, there is a great difference between trust and belief.
The fear will be there- because if you drop belief, doubt arises.
Cultivated trust becomes belief.
اولین کتابی بود که از 'اشو' خواندم...مملو از ایدههای عجیب و غریب و بعضا دلچسب در مورد مسائل مختلف نظیر اعتقاد ب خدا، اعتماد، عشق، مراقبه و و و.
شاید اندکی ترغیب شدم بیشتر از او بخوانم : )از پایان کتاب: "اکنون ما در این سمت هستیم و از طرف دیگر خبری نداریم.
در مورد آن سمت تنها میشود تخیل کرد.
به همین خاطر است که بهشت و جهنم و هر نوع تجسمی بکر و بدوی است.
ما در این سمت هستیم و مردی در حال مرگ است.
از نظر ما او در حال مرگ است ولی شاید در حال تولد باشد."
اولین کتابی بود که از 'اشو' خواندم...مملو از ایده‌های عجیب و غریب و بعضا دلچسب در مورد مسائل مختلف نظیر اعتقاد ب خدا، اعتماد، عشق، مراقبه و و و.
شاید اندکی ترغیب شدم بیشتر از او بخوانم : )از پایان کتاب: "اکنون ما در این سمت هستیم و از طرف دیگر خبری نداریم.
در مورد آن سمت تنها می‌شود تخیل کرد.
به همین خاطر است که بهشت و جهنم و هر نوع تجسمی بکر و بدوی است.
ما در این سمت هستیم و مردی در حال مرگ است.
از نظر ما او در حال مرگ است ولی شاید در حال تولد باشد."
These comments present information and links that some Osho fans may find disturbing, but that presumably any past, current or future reader of Courage: The Joy of Living Dangerously and his other books would want to know about.Rajneesh/Osho was at the center of many controversies for his entire adult life -- for good reason, it seems.
He believed that "it was going to be necessary to kill people to stay in Oregon" and that "Hitler had great vision".In 1981 Rajneesh/Osho and his staff fled India, where authorities had begun questioning his practices.
The results of even brief research will call into question Osho's status as a legitimate guru.
i'm on a whole OSHO trip as of late. I am totally digging on this guy.tim robbins says of him-"were enough americans to heed the brilliantly provocative words in this book, we might actually become "the land of the free and the home of the brave. 'imagine that!"if i was taught this stuff instead of that other mumbo jumbo in catechism, i might have enjoyed my mistakes more. but i'm glad it came along when it did. (thanks AGAIN trevor, my literary guide!)
Osho says that we carry that thinking onto our adulthood and are very comfortable in our mental / physical illnesses because we know that society and our loved ones around us are programmed to respond with smiles and assurances, but most important of all with attention, when we are ill.
When we are better this attention may dissipate so why not carry on playing this hypochondriac role if it anchors us to the sympathy of our friends and loved ones?
If you have not read or listen Osho, one of the Great Spiritual Masters of our time...he was the great motivator of mankind...you must read his works.This work is one his great works. In this book Osho says: whenever we are faced with uncertainty and change in our lives, it is actually a cause for celebration. Instead of trying to hang on to the familiar and the known, we can learn to enjoy these situations as opportunities for adventure and for deepening our understanding of ourselves and the world around us.
Even if you're not a follower of eastern philosophy, this book is an inspiration. It encourages the reader to live outside of the confines of their own ideals, to take chances in all areas of life, and to be comfortable with those choices.
I was indecisive whether to give four of five stars but who cares, it was a great book anyway.
I like him.
There are some wonderful sentences in the book which really can make a man start to think more thoroughly about himself and his actions in life.
And maybe the most important thing is that Osho, like many Eastern philosophers provide us with some lessons which we should not take for granted but try to test.
When you try to do some of that in the book you will know it for sure.
Great read!
Although this book gave insight into the condition of fear I felt the author's own bias and agenda affected the book in a negative way. Osho seemed less like a sage and more like a bitter, self-righteous person through the examples he gave and the way he presented the information. Still, there were some moments of unbiased clarity and I did gain insight from those sections of the book.
Osho repeats himself quite a bit, but all the better to get a point across. If you are afraid of anything, Osho will make all your fears and anxiety melt away.This is my second time reading this.
الكتاب جميل ومفيد رغم أنف الترجمة السيئة، والعبارات المكررة والأفكار. ربما هناك رسالة ما من تكرارها، لم التفت إليها بعد. بشكل عام جيّد.
There is some good stuff here - for example, he encourages readers to get to know themselves, to do their own thing rather than what everyone else wants you to do, to meditate and be still on a daily basis (which science is now showing to be of both physical and psychological benefit) and to put aside fear, which unfortunately dominates much of our human behaviour.
You will find identical thoughts in the writing of many of the New Age gurus.
Many people will remember Osho from the 1980s as the guru Shree Rajneesh, the leader of a famous cult, the owner of 93 Rolls Royces, and a criminal convicted of several crimes in the United States, all of which make his supposed spirituality a bit difficult to take seriously.
Fear as Osho describes, is simply a landscape within which we move, within which we live...
We can't avoid it, we can only either reject it, or accept it...Fear is everywhere - it can only be created by doubt...
Osho explains that 'awareness' and 'doubt' are like two parallel lines that never cross...
For when we are aware of something, there is no room for doubt to exist, or fear for that matter...
Doubt is created by unawareness...Courage is a means of accepting life, by enduring with life in all its totality...
Acceptance of this totality, gives room for courage as also a means of accepting fear...
I got it from the airport when i was leaving from Lebanon on a short trip to Istanbul.
I got it without giving much thought, it kind of felt like i picked it randomly.
But as soon as I started reading on the plane i realized it was the right book for this exact phase of my life.As usual with Osho's books, you don't have to agree with all what he is saying but his writing make you ask yourself questions that wouldn't have occurred to you if not triggered by his ideas.
You start to re-assess your whole life and belief system.
I feel like this is the kind of book that would be maligned as a hippie Bible, because it totally is, but it's also a lovely, sincerely meditative book if you allow it to be. Produced a lot of thoughts that came to me at the right time. Only criticism is that the cadence of the writing is difficult to get past. Every sentence sounds exactly the same, which made reading it a little harder than it should have been. Not sure if this was translated and that's the problem, but it required a mental slog at times.
Before reading this book I was very sceptic about Osho and his books, therefore it serves as a proof that it is not wise to judge about something before you haven't tried it out. And I did, I read it and now I know for sure that this will be the book I will look up on a bad mood day or at times when I need some supportative word at hand. Simple language, easy to understand, lots of food for thought as well as encouragement.
What a book! I'm so glad i discovered Osho and his amazing books. He is really an inspiration to me, i like so much his simple style. This book is about how to conquer your fear and accept it how it is, accept yourself exactly how you are, love yourself no matter what! Its such a must read for everyone!
Never has a book effected my life so profoundly. It saved me at a time when I was hanging by a string and consumed by blackness. Its wisdom on love and forgiveness are the best advice I have ever read. His ideas on religion helped me realize my own beliefs.
So perfect. I don't know if I could ever move this over onto the "read" shelf, cause it just sits on my table and I pick it up and reread pages at a time. It's like wholesome snackfood for your heart.
الكتاب و على الغم من التكرارات فيه الا أنه رائع لفت انتباهي الى اشياء كثيرة لم تخطر على بالي
A very aggressive perspective with ruthless practicality questioning all the clichés and conditionings we have known since birth. Only heightened beings can communicate these kind of opinions. For some reason I could not agree to certain philosophies of Osho but overall this book was a very energetic read.
Fading into a haze of unified consciousness, my perceptions melt, my feelings melt, my thoughts melt, and only the "I" remained—reading this book felt like taking a perpetual plunge into a vastness, an openness, a oneness that literally took my ego away—a head trip with no head—a fall that never ends.
يحكى أن رجلا كان يمشي في الليل فسقط عن صخرة ، وخوفا من أن يسقط آلاف الأقدام لأنه يعلم بأن التلة عميقة جدا ، التقط غصنا كان متدليا فوق الصخرة ، ورأى هوة عميقة في عتمة الليل فصرخ حتى سمع صراخه مع الصدى ، إلا أن أحدا ، لم يسمعه .أخي هل تستطيع تخيل خوف الرجل وعذابه طوال الليل ، لقد شعر بالموت في كل دقيقة وأحس بالبرد حتى أطراف يديه ، وأخذت قبضته تهن .
ولكنه قضى الليل وكأنه كابوس .إن الخوف هو 6 بوصات من العمق فقط ..
ولكن الخيار في أن تقضو حياتكم في كابوس متعلقين بغضن شجرة أو أن تتركوا الشجرة وتقفوا على رجليكم .
Lot of interesting and inspiring points which can be followed in our daily lives, I could say those were not much philosopical rather it can taken into practical day to day life. In terms of editing, I dont like that couple of points repeated thro' out the book - anyway, we could look at in a way that those were insisted across pages. Anyway, its nice book.
كان الكتاب جيدًا جدًا في البدء ، لكنَّ جودته تقلّ مع كل صفحة جديدة تمر بها .أسوأ ما فيه (التكرار) ، الكلام عينه يُعاد ألف مرة حتى تحفظه و تسأمه - مهما كان رائعًا و صائبًا - ، بوسعي إيجازه في 40 صفحة فقط ، ما يعني أنَّ المائة الأخرى لم تكن لازمة.
" لا يوجد شيء مخيف " - ببساطة شديدة يقولها أوشو :" لا يوجد شيء مخيف".
زندگی یک مشکل نیست. اگر به آن بعنوان مشکل نگاه کنی، قدم اشتباه برداشته ای.زندگی رازیست که باید با آن زیست، عاشقش شد و تجربه اش کرد...!
