https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1786581.The_New_House
This novel was written in 1936 and reflects the changes in the English middle classes after the First World War. The family involved is the Powell family; Mr Powell has recently died and Mrs Powell can no longer manage the house; although she does not really accept this.
Rhoda ponders her feelings on moving:“Today, she thought is like a crack in my life.
Cooper draws clear parallels between the oppression of the working classes in housing estates and slums and the situation of women like Rhoda.
The New House takes place over one very long day that sees the “removal” of Natalie Powell and her adult daughter Rhoda from their large family home to a much smaller house on the other side of the town.
Ordinary life in the new house will begin tomorrow and grow over the crack and seal it up.”Maurice the son of the family, is also now living away from home, he is married to the fairly dreadful Evelyn, a young women not dissimilar to her mother-in-law.
Its' 319 pages cleverly consists of three parts: Morning, Noon and Night.What might be utterly boring becomes insightful gleanings from each family member as their thoughts and conversations meander between the present day and past ones.
I found myself agreeing with various thoughts and cheering on one of the characters to buck up and become more of her own person.
I also saw myself in a more negative tone with some of their thoughts.Although the times and customs are quite different now, I would call this book ageless, as it deals at heart with the constant human condition of relationships in families.
Stop everything you are doing and go read this book.
I mean it.
I really, really, mean it.This is the kind of novel that you don't want to end.
She is kind to her characters, warts and all and nobody is painted as 100% virtuous or a villain, they are all nuanced.
You see yourself in them; you see the good, the bad and the sheer humanity of it all.A quiet, beautiful read in the best tradition of domestic fiction.
If you read Barbara Pym or Dorothy Whipple, do yourself a favor and read this book.
All the action of this book takes place in one day in their northern English town in the 1930s, as they move, helped by Natalie's son Maurice and his wife, a second daughter Delia and her fiancé, and Natalie's sister, Aunt Ellen.
The big question of the book is whether Rhoda will have the desire and courage to leave her domineering mother and go for the job in London which Delia is leaving to get married - as women had to do in those days!
very nice. i really enjoyed it. reminded me of Dorothy Whipple.
A little slow, but a insightful glimpse at early 20th century life in England. Recommended to me by the folks at Persephone based on my love of Revolutionary Road by Richard Yates.
The last sentence marks the end of the day, certainly, but that one day has made a difference in the lives of most of the characters, more difference than just moving from the old house to the new.
While the main focalizer is 33-year-old Rhoda, many other perspectives are represented: her mother, her sister and brother, her brother’s wife, her aunt, the maid and the cook, and family friends all observe the events of the day.
The settings are not all domestic, so that we follow the brother to his office and his club, and the focus is on the thoughts of the characters: as Rhoda muses, “What you see is so seldom the other person.

One of those Single Day books, divided into Morning, Afternoon, and Night. Cooper shows the inner lives of an extended family as two of its members (plus maid) move to a new house. Although some of the socialist thoughts seem sadly quaint now, I marked many other passages for their universal truths. It's impossible not to root for Rhoda.
Published in the early 40s - I can't believe how it's held up and how relevant it still is.
Loved every character in this book - wish I could know much more about them. There were so many quotable lines that would be perfectly applicable to today. I love how even the "selfish" mother had a soft spot occasionally and some remorse looking back and that the unmarried daughter was able to be strong and look forward to moving on with her life. A book to reread for sure.
I loved this. Published in 1936 but so clever. the story of a family leaving a house told over one day. But it is so much more than that - each character is drawn out so well, I loved the writing and the honesty of the characters. thanks Persephone for publishing these books.
It's also inescapably middle class, ensconced so heavily inside the trials and troubles of home ownership and business-running that even though there are privately positive feelings towards socialism and the betterment of the lot of the working class, there is really no question that this is purely about the well-off.
It just falls a little heavily when compared with something published ten years later like One Fine Day by Mollie Panter-Downes, which deals with a lot of the same issues but in a post-war context, and in my opinion comes out vibrantly on top.
A lot of interesting, experimental fiction came out of the period between the wars, but this, despite its interesting single-day setting, is solidly of its time.
After I read this book, I contacted Persephone Books directly (something I’ve not done before) to ask if they are publishing anything more of Lettice Cooper whose nearly every page here strikes some chord of understanding for me (I actually caught myself nodding yes ridiculously to myself a number of times). Happily, in October, they will publish National Provincial. Can I just take a moment to thank Persephone books for finding mostly lesser known women writers and giving them an audience who frankly needs them, or I’ll say for myself: I need them!!! Thank you!
I enjoyed 'The New House' though it was not the novel I had in mind before reading.
This may be my own muddle and misinterpretation, based on looking at Persephone book descriptions and dithering over choices.
As my teenager daughter would say: my bad.Despite my misunderstanding, I kept with reading this book (it's a Persephone, it has to be good) and did enjoy the writing.
There are no real surprises in this short trip from one house to another, but not all books are about twists and turns, and some of the best books I have enjoyed contain stories where nothing much but a lot happens.
Really liked this actually. I knew I would enjoy it because Persephone Books are surefire trashy comfort reads for me, as romance novels are for other people. But it makes better literature than I expected. I liked the observation about people and human nature, and the close attention given to each change of mood in a person, leading them to snap or be kind, almost unconsciously. Also interested in how little your average privileged upper middle-class mindset varies across time and space.Terrible uninteresting preface by Jilly Cooper, consisting mostly of name-dropping, bleh.
OK I am biased when it comes to Persphone Books. I did enjoy this. I thought it was going to be a tad out dated but it was not, it was still very modern, surprisingly so actually. I kept thinking I wish I'd had this book when I was in my 20 - 30s. It is still very insightful, still has a social conscious and is a pleasure to read.Toast
I checked this book out of the library, and when I finished it, I ordered a copy of my own. Several times while reading it I thought "how many ideas and personalities and quotable lines can be packed into one small stack of pages?" And yet I know that a book about a household moving from one place to another would leave many people cold. But - I loved this book.
I think I shall have to re-read this book. I feel as though I had been eating a humdrum meal and was then denied dessert. I was unable to feel empathy for any of the characters. I shall try it again in a month or two.
If I ever compile one of those fantasy dinner party guest lists (i.e., include anyone you like, living or dead), Lettice Cooper will be on it.
After Jane Austen's works this is my favourite work one of only half a dozen I reread regularly.
Lovely book. I kept "seeing" my aunts (who were they still alive, would be over 100 years old ) and about their relationship with my grand mother. It was like a trip in the past...
