https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/951817.The_Rising_of_the_Moon
I did not dream of crossing the lock-gates and the footbridge on my return, but hurried up the slope of the road bridge and came out where the old chapel used to be, and so to the bustle of the high street, glad (for the first time, I think) to see street lamps as well as the moon, and to hear the noisy buses and grating trams instead of the little sounds of the flowing water...”For some reason, and without aid of a map, the reader is guided, maneuvered, reversed and re-routed throughout the entire length of the book.
Any dedicated mystery reader, myself included, would probably have been game to give this a chance with a map on the flyleaf, but as it is ...Mitchell is good at the scene change, hastening the next act and deftly placing the hinges where the reader doesn't notice.

Simon Innes and his 11-year-old brother Keith spend their days wandering and playing in their idyllic town of Brentford some time prior to World War II.
The boys live with their older, irresponsible brother Jack and his beleaguered and irascible wife June, but, for all that, they lead a more or less carefree existence until a madman begins murdering young women at night during the full moons.
But The Rising of the Moon is one of the best novels I've read in any genre.
Not only an awesome mystery but an even better than excellent period piece.
It holds dialect, colloquial language/reference and also oodles of locational detail for its short page length.
I am having a hard time locating a copy of another Gladys Mitchell work- but I'll not give up.
Just excellent human nature and psychology of different ages (kids and elderly to a T)on top of it.This kept me guessing into the last 40 pages and illuminated beyond the horrid and savage crimes of the mystery element within the story.
The family and social circle story was just as pure and solid a tale.
EXCELLENT.
This was the second Gladys Mitchell I read (I'm now ploughing through my third) and it won me over completely.
Mrs Bradley, the series detective, haunts the edges of the story but the narrator and protagonist is really a young teenager, Simon Innes.
(The first among many bits of cleverness: Mitchell somehow has Simon convey that she deserves our sympathy even though he himself dislikes her and, indeed, wishes her dead.) The setting is pre-war Brentford, a small town rather than a suburb of London, populated by characters out of Dickens, Wodehouse and early social realism.
Al principio no pasa de ser un pasatiempo y una forma de escapar de la vigilancia de los adultos, pero pronto se convierte en algo mucho más serio cuando su hermano mayor es sospechoso de ser el asesino.
Lo mejor, las descripciones, que generalmente son tediosas y con Mitchell resultan cautivadoras, y el personaje del narrador: es muy deifícil hacer que el protagonista sea un niño y resulte creíble, sin ñoñerías o pedanterías; generalmente suelen resultar niños repelentes o completamente irreales.
Set in small town in pre-WWI England, the narrator is 13-year old Simon Innes.
Simon describes himself a the Watson to his younger brother Keith.
A "Ripper" is going through the town killing young ladies and Mitchell's detective, Mrs. Bradley of the 'claw like hands' and beautiful voice, has teamed up with the kids to find the killer.
She is literate in a way that seems common to British writers of that age, and evokes mood and the minds of two precocious kids fairly believably.
If I can, I will update the review when I finish.
To see my Amazon.com reviews, try this
This started out a bit of a slog, but had me on the edge of my seat by the end. The intrepid brothers Simon and Keith are quite the young detectives, and later accompanied by Mrs. Bradley who is Miss Marple-ish in her crime solving abilities. The area it takes place in was confusing to me-I think the language used compounded that. The relationship with the young lady boarding with the boys, their older brother/guardian and his wife was a strange one. Overall a great mystery plot and cast of characters.
Mrs Bradley doesn't put in an appearance until nearly half way through this mystery novel.
The story is told, it would appear in retrospect, by a 13 year old boy who, with his 11 year old brother become interested in a series of murders of young women in their rural London suburb.
They are from a family it would seem one step up from working class.
Their older brother, with whom they live, is more interested in their young female border than his wife and young son.
Actually, whenever he appeared the very small boy was one of my favorite characters.
Beautifully written with well-drawn characters, especially the children. But the mystery itself is not so great and there are issues with pacing (the book loosens its grip when it shouldn't) and narrative voice (is Simon Innes writing many years later, or soon after?--I wonder if Mitchell knew). Reminded me of the film The Night of the Hunter.
Gruesome murder story narrated by 13 year old boyThe Rising of the Moon didn't reveal Mrs. Bradley until well into the story. The main characters were two brothers, ages 13 and 11. Simon, the older brother, narrates the adventure and we follow the gruesome murders through his eyes. Interesting and exciting read with well developed characters.
Didn't realize this was part of a series.Two boys in a small town in England help solve a rash of murders that plague their town. I think this was one my mother picked up at a library book sale. Found it when we were clearing out our mountain cabin.
Really enjoyed this tale!
This Golden Age mystery is told from the perspective of orphaned young brothers Simon [age 13] and Keith [age 11] who live with their older brother's family in south suburban London area during the late 1930s.
The brothers make a late night scouting trip to locate the best points to sneak into a traveling circus' opening day when they witness a dark figure with what appears to be a knife on a bridge.
When a female circus performer winds up murdered in Ripper-style fashion, the Innes family is drawn into the investigation.
Though this is a part of the author's Mrs. Bradley series, the eponymous series character's appearance is late and infrequent in this story.
I first read this as a teenager, though I didn't remember that until most ways through -- which might even be a reason to cut it half a star.***SPOILER***Simon and Keith Innes, 13 and 11 respectively, live with their brother, his wife and child, and their lodger, Christina.
They of course have the time of their lives -- until the trails begin to lead too close to home.Mitchell's famous Mrs. Bradley (not the same as in the PBS mysteries starring Diana Rigg) appears halfway into the book, but frankly seems no more intuitive than the adolescent boys, and the tale weaves its way through some grisly scenes to an uneventful end and a too quick wrap-up of loose ends.The setting, the terrain, is never precise.
This isn't just an English murder mystery.
It's a coming-of-age tale, a portrait of mid-century village life from a child's perspective on adult relationships and class divides.
Mitchell's leads are a precocious prepubertal pair, very convincingly drawn.
Keith wore his bathing costume, a pair of linen shorts and his Wellington boots.
"Why don't you say murder?" asked Keith.
"I don't say murder because it isn't a nice word," he replied.
Mr Seabrook studied him carefully.By the end our thirteen year old narrator, who has been observing the adult world and skirting along its edge, crosses the divide.Something in me suddenly came to life.
It's been years since I first read this book and I was surprised to see it listed by Amazon as a "Mrs. Bradley" mystery.
Most critics consider this one of her best and Mitchell once told an interviewer that it was her personal favorite of all her books.Set in pre-WWII England, in a sleepy small town within driving distance of London, it's narrated by a 13-year-old boy.
Clearly, the author wanted her readers to thoroughly get to know the young narrator and his brother before the charismatic "Mrs. Croc" came on the scene.Mitchell was a long-time teacher and understood children and their secret lives and the unwritten codes that govern their actions.
Mrs Bradley does not enter the story until part way through, which means that a lot of the detective work is carried out by Simon and Keith Innes (13 and 11 years old respectively), brothers who find themselves involved in a mysterious case of serial murders in their small village.
She has an excellent ability to understand and explain children's logic.
When the story ended I still felt that there were things that had happened that I didn't understand.
As Simon was narrating the story you only get his impressions of what has happened and therefore the things he doesn't experience or get told about must be missed out.
Brothers Simon and Keith Innes are initially intrigued by the excitement in their normally quiet little village, but when their brother Jack seems to be a suspect, they get serious about investigating.
The story centers on the two boys, Simon and Keith, who are nearly inseparable and depend entirely on each other, having been orphaned at an early age and sent to live with their older brother and his wife, who resents having to care for them.
So even though this one is a bit different from the normal Mrs. Bradley title, I highly recommend it.
I've always enjoyed British mysrery writer, Gladys Mitchell's Mrs Bradley books.
As Mitchell died in the 1980s her books can be regarded as historical murder mysteries.
In this novel two youngsters, 2 boys, start sleuthing after a series of murders in their town.
We readers are hooked from the first page and enjoy the antics of the boys trying to build up a case.For readers who like well written murder mysteries Gladys Mitchell's novels are well worth reading.
For readers who enjoy British mysteries without too much gore and horror this is a novel to enjoy.
Big disappointment!!!!It took every thing I had in me to finish this book. It was so boring from the start and eventually became so confusing trying to figure out the lingo being used. The characters were uninteresting; I could barely figure out who was saying what; it was too descriptive and very little about the investigation of the murders. I guessed who the murderer was very early on and only hung in there to see if I was right (and that wasn't easy) believe me. I would not recommend this book.
This series continues to improve, but it started at such an abysmally low point that I was quite surprised to find myself actually enjoying this book.The book is told from the point of view of a 13 year old boy, and Mrs. Bradley, the detective, does not appear until halfway through. She immediately wins the confidence of the boy.The ending of the book was extremely muddled and unsatisfying, however.
Wy isn't this book better known? Classic golden age mystery but with fascinating, clever takes. A little Hardy Boys meets Agatha Christie but in a much darker world. I couldn't get my bearings initially and put it down bur when I picked it up, the story took off and I resented anything that kept me from reading. Mitchell is a risk taker but has the thought and style to pull off her bets. Highly enjoyable.
First time I've read this author. This title was written in the '40s, so the style is a little dated and not quite what I expected from reading others from that period. Interesting that her detective is actually a fairly minor character here - not sure if that's the case with her other books or not. A decent read, although not quite as good as I was hoping.
Absolutely intriguingAs a rule, I generally don't like mysteries that are told by children, but this one is just too fantastic not to recommend!The Mrs. Bradley Mysteries are so wonderfully written and each one is so different that you really must read them all.
This is one of my favorite books. I love the perspective from the boys, and there is a sense of freedom that comes across in their adventure. And you always have to love a good mystery.
It may be age related, but I like this style of book, and this was not a disappointment.
My favorite so far of the Mrs. Bradley Books.
Charmingly narrated by a young boy; a Mrs. Bradley mystery but she does not make much of an appearance and she is nothing like Diana Riggs portrayal on the PBS Mystery! series.
