https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/633093.Dark_Canyon
Gem-like things: - The opening line.
Pretty ominous.
Pretty grand.
- The Swedish/French/Irish/Dutch sheriff who pronounces his "b" like a "p," thereby royally confusing me with what I THOUGHT were typos - Gaylord's friends calling him "Lord" forever after because he tried on a top hat that one time- The fact that the romance was so lame and yet somehow oddly satisfying???
like don't even try to lie to me, son, I see youIf you're a L'Amour fan, give this a try!
Gaylord Riley, a young man of sterling character, falls in with a group of outlaws--but they keep him on the periphery, believing him to be too good for that life.
Lots of action, betrayals, revenge; black and white characters with the band of outlaws turning out particularly well; plot-centered with an epilogue that explains everyone's fate; rather stilted old-fashioned language that sounds remarkably fine when read aloud, and passionate landscape descriptions; a romantic tone (both a love story and a surely romanticized view of the West), upbeat, earnest, and nostalgic.
A good story with some interesting characters...but not destined to win any prizes in literature.
After all, we need good stories to fill lazy afternoons while swinging in a hammock or while cozying up to the fire when trying to stay warm in the thick of winter.This story is a bit different from many western stories you might come across, simply because the main character, Gaylord Riley, is an ex-outlaw, having rode with the Colburn gang.
Of course along the way there are plenty of obstacles and getting around them is what makes this a story.
I also enjoyed the cameo appearance of one of my all-time favorite L'Amour characters, Tell Sackett (portrayed by Sam Elliot in film adaptations).
This is a story about a young man growing up and finding his own life in a rather hostile small town in an area that sounds like it is north and west of the Gunnison River, since the Dark Canyon's depth makes it most likely to be the Black Canyon of the Gunnison.
So, perhaps much of this story takes place in Colorado, certainly along the western and northern border of Colorado.
The romantic thread is very weak, but the book is short, so maybe there just wasn't space to make that part better developed.
Maybe the fastest time on a L'Amour book for me.
The author made our protagonist and four other characters come alive in just five pages.
Simply amazing!Riley and his partners start off as outlaws and finish up as what are arguably the most honest and honorable men in the book.
Redemption is a part of many of L'Amour's novels, but I think it is showcased the best here in Dark Canyon.
No one, not even a character with just a few lines is given short shrift.
I cannot recommend this book enough.Find it!
Books like this are why I keep reading Louis L’Amour.
A small cast of characters, a tight story, and some amazing writing.Here a hoof touched stone, a saddle’s leather creaked, or a spur jingled.
They were small sounds, but different sounds, and every animal ear was alert, for none knew which was the quarry, none could be sure where the pursuit would end.The story is a basic one: an outlaw tries to turn his life around while good men mistrust him and bad men use him.
It’s what L’Amour does with it that makes it worth reading.
This was a standard western. I felt like the story was not very complex. It was a standard cowboy and gunslinger type story. It was fun and did what it did well, but there was nothing to set this story apart from the many others in the genre.
I think the author does a really good job of detail, and it is easy to picture what is going on in the book.
Plot SummaryThe book starts off with Riley quitting the Colborn gang because the members of it give him a bunch of money to leave so he does not end up dead.
He gets help from the Colborn gang, and then he realizes that someone is trying to start a cattle war.
I recommend reading this book if you like westerns.CharacterizationThe character Riley changed because he started out as an outlaw.
I think that this was because he quit the gang.
2014: This might be the first book I've re-read without realizing that it's a re-read.
Upon perusing my 2011 review, I can see that this book made very little impression on me in the first place, and the situation was not improved by a second reading.
Knocking this back to two stars for being a sheer disappointment not once, but twice.2011: Interestingly enough, this is the first L'Amour I've read in which I've was less than pleased with the writing.
Perfect comfort escapist weekend reading, and short enough to be read in one or two sittings.
(Three-star review)
This good western was a quick read. Young outlaw decides to go straight and start a cattle ranch. Naturally his past catches up with him. Recommended to L'Amour fans.
I don't want to say it was formulamatic but it is just a simple story, a quick read to be enjoyed on a lazy day on the patio or the beach.Gaylord Riley saw his father murdered and their cattle driven off when he was a boy.
Riley walks into a mess in the town he wants to settle down in and has to find a way to solve the problems and not get killed.There is a brief appearance of Tell Sackett in this story.While this isn't the best story Louis L'Amour ever wrote it is a good story and well worth the time it takes to read.
I am not Louis L'Amour ever wrote a terrible story.
Years ago when I was a college student in NYC I first heard of Louis L'Amour when, I think, I learned that his books were on President Reagan's favorite lists.
I was always a Western movie buff and later became a classic western novel reader, but it was not until years later that I read my first Louis L'Amour book and found it to be a fun read.
Later I learned that one of my favorite John Wayne movies, Hondo, was based on a L'Amour novel.
Since then I have read many books of his, some I have enjoyed more than others, and this one was one of the ones I enjoyed more.
Solid western by Louis L'Amour.
More nuanced than many of his novels, which typically feature powerful villains and an unstoppable hero who steps in to set things right, often getting the girl in the process.
This book has its villain, and there is a very satisfying hero.
But the lines of good/bad are more blurred than in his other stories, making it oddly more believable.
I've yet to encounter a Louis L'Amour western that I just didn't like.
Some are better than others, but I'd put this one up among some of the more enjoyable books of his that I've read.
Intense charactersI have constantly been reading since I learned I could.
In my adult life as an educator, I have been an avid reader of history and eventually, historical novels.
One of my sons was a prolific L'Amour reader, and himself a real cowboy.
I never began reading any L'Amour works until 2017 and now I have become a true follower of L'Amour & his unequalled skill.
In "Dark Canyon", I was completely caught up in every aspect of the time and characters.One of my favorites thus is far in my L'Amour reading.He is an amazing story teller, author and novelist.
This is in short pocket book form. Can be read in an evening. Very entertaining. The main character is a good guy and has the great fortune to be able to start his own ranch with the help of his friends. Tell Sackett makes a cameo appearance later in the story. A good ending. Perfect movie fodder.
3.5* Picked up the paperback from a second hand bookshop. It was a short read, but packed enough to enjoy. L'Amour was one of the best loved Western authors for a reason. He had an obvious love for the country, and the vivid descriptions brought it to life. One of his earlier works, but still good.
A 91 year old reader with hundreds of his books on my shelf and another hundred on my epad.I liked it because I can always depend on the quality of each story with alot action and a most happy ending
Another good story in the Sackett series. Tell Sackett shows up as a cowhand in the midst of the adventure. Although the entire story does not focus on a member of the Sackett clan, it does feature the world they live in and Tell Sackett is an excellent character to run into now and again.
I read this as part of Book Riot’s “Read Harder” challenge for 2018. One of the challenges was read a western. I was dreading this, but it wasn’t that bad. Just a simple story. This book was well written and had some pretty prose. Not my cup of tea, but not awful.
Simple, yet compelling story not about black and white, or good guys vs. bad guys, but the fine line in between where some men settle. The old west described such that you may taste a little dust in your teeth.
This is one of those books like 50 Shades that makes me question every think I think I know about writing; as in, "If someone who writes this badly can be this successful, then maybe what readers really want is bad writing with strong plot and strong characters."
Another Utah area story. Trivia: One of the characters repeats Doc Holiday's reported final phrase as he lay dying.
Good book, easy read and believable plot line. In fact, this is one of the stories Louis L'Amour tells that seems to be based on an actual family history found in some one's genealogy.
The best L'Amour novel I've read.
Good story and a great piece as always.
I like that a boy starts his own farm has very close friends and has hard working. I would recommend this book for people that are into the old west.
Yes, another excellent story by super western writer Louis L'Amour. It even had an epilogue, which as other people who have critiqued his books have noted that sometimes L'Amour's books end abruptly, this one did not. There was a period of time that I wondered what happened to one of the main fringe characters...but he showed up before the story ended. Hands down...L'Amour's Westerns are so much better then the spin most current writers in this category.
“Now, what about this world eating monster?” I didn’t seriously believe some insatiable creature threatened to destroy their whole planet or that we were being hunted by anything other than the Rebel Army.
Just a myth, of course, but I like stories and someday I hope to create my own—why I keep this journal, of course: for practice.
Pa nodded even though he didn’t know what I just said.
Like I said, a joke.” “Get to the part about the monster,” I put an edge to the command, as I’d learned to hone it by Mother’s example.
Dark Canyon by Louis L'Amour is an western fictional novel.
Gaylord Riley is the main character within the book.
Although Gaylord was an outlaw he decided to leave the lawless life behind and seek work in the cattle business.
He settled in rough terrain in the Dark Canyon.
The book was very interesting and I was instantly hooked from the first chapter after I understood what the author was trying to say within his story.
Dark Canyon is a western fictional book with many interesting parts.
The theme of the book is ride for the brand which means the cowboy is riding for the name of the brand on the cattle.
This was one of the first Louis L'Amour books I read, back in 1980. It ensured I bought all his other books. Even after so many years, I like this one. It's exciting and atmospheric, and will keep you interested right to the end. Louis L'Amour at the top of his game.
