https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/178530.Nigger_Heaven
Civil rights leader James Weldon Johnson saidit was "the most powerful novel of Negro life yet written."CVV, perhaps the first to open his salon to blacks, wasclose friends with Ethel Waters, Langston Hughes.
He wrote that black American folksongs were "the most important America has made to music." We know today that CVV had intermezzos w bubbling brown sugar, as others seek oatmeal or peppermint.The novel brought some hysterical condemnation (as it does today.) James Weldon Johnson wrote CVV, "Has anyone ever written it down that you have been one of the most vital factors in bringing about the artistic emergence of the Negro in America?
Read this for my Harlem Renaissance class. Would only recommend it to someone interested in the history of the time period, because it was an important text - credited with exposing the Renaissance to a broader audience. As a literary work, it's strange, clunky in parts, and somewhat boring.
His 1926 pro-racial-tolerance novel, Nigger Heaven abounds in such provocative observations, and despite concerns and confusions about appropriation, exploitation or authenticity that confront a reader in thinking about a novel that purports to be about black Harlem culture despite its being written by a white author the book itself seems well researched and authentic.
Foolishly he becomes enamored of the charms of Lasca in spite of Mary's dogged faithfulness to him.Within the framework of that typical story is woven a very vivid and historically valuable look at the lifestyles and issues of black New York during the Harlem Renaissance.I liked the book and only in a couple of instances did I find anything in it of questionable taste.
One of the characters in this book says, "It isn't the story that counts; it's the treatment." She is telling her boyfriend, a writer, that the story he intends to write is going to be hard to write as real, instead of as propaganda - this book's term for sensational stereotypical tales of the New Negro.
Ultimately, I don't think that Van Vechten pulls off the treatment here, and the story he tells reads a bit too much like propanda.
Still, I think that what Van Vechten set out to do here is interesting, even if ultimately he failed.
Its value lies in the conversations between characters, meant to reflect to the audience contemporary black opinions, regarding politics, the "race problem," arts, and entertainment.
Carl van Vechten based these insights on a summer he spent in the company of Langston Hughes, who contributed to Nigger Heaven in the form of musical asides, and while one questions the extent they reflect what affluent Northern blacks thought of themselves, they certainly help to indicate what affluent Northern whites thought that affluent Northern blacks thought of themselves.
Written from the perspective of two lovers, Mary and Byron, the novel introduces a host of characters who represent the full social, economic, and cultural sweep of Harlem in the 1920s.
(Much like the title itself, come to think of it, despite Van Vechten's ironic intentions.) I do give Van Vechten credit for attempting to write a novel that relates the black experience in America, but I often found myself comparing it to better works written by black writers during the '20's and earlier.
Van Vechten even acknowledges this difficulty, with two characters discussing the possibility of a black writer ever writing a novel from a white perspective.
A review by a white guy of a book about Black culture in Harlem during the early 20th century that was written by a gay white man.
The book is written in two parts, the first focusing on the librarian, the second on the writer.
I feel awkward about that, and about this book being written by a white man, so while I really liked it, I am a bit uncomfortable with reading it without comparing it to anything else from that period.
The book is told through two characters: Book one is Mary, the sensitive librarian, setting the stage of Harlem high life superficially viewed through her friends and acquaintances.
Many characters were thinly disguised acquaintances of VV and some were stereotypes (dialect and all).
Some of VV’s best passages are where he is describing Byron as a proud black man struggling to make it on his own, on his terms - without having to resort to passing, in a white man’s world.
This 1926 novel of the Harlem Renaissance, written by a white, gay man, drew fire from the black community for its scandalous title.
His point is that there are rich blacks, intellectual blacks, jazz-players, poor blacks and gigolos all living side by side in Harlem.
The bitter young college-educated Byron Kasson, who can't get a job any better than elevator operator, seems somewhat stilted and one dimensional.
His priggish, long-suffering, librarian girlfriend is not much better.
What I loved were the descriptions of Harlem life, the cabarets in all their tawdriness and the lavish parlours of the wealthy.
A novel about Harlem with Black characters written by a White patron of the arts/critic/socialite, Carl Van Vechten.
The title was deliberately incendiary, but no one could talk him out of it.
Its publication divided the Harlem literati--Du Bois, among others, hated it.
Langston Hughes quickly wrote blues lyrics for it when Van Vechten couldn't get permission to use existing lyrics.
(Hughes and Van Vechten were lifelong friends.) As to the novel, it mixes tragedy, melodrama, and slice-of-Harlem-night-life.
Worth reading as a cultural artifact of the Harlem Renaissance and as an example of White Liberal allyship gone haywire.
I have had an odd reaction to the book: not great, but very interesting. Writing by a gay white man, it may suffer from not being an insider, but apparently, the author was part of the community in Harlem. And the picture of that community is fascinating. The characters, the debauchery, the high life, the despair are interesting and well demonstrated. Many of the colloquialisms are great to read and know.The characterizations are weak and little developed.Fun read, but didactic.
Its fascinating and sad simultaneously that the issues discussed in the novel,; racism, color-ism, violence ares till rampant in American especially African American society. If one is able to get pass the title it reads as great historical fiction.
A fast story about intraracial prejudice, pride, and artistry; especially fascinating is the integration of lyrical excerpts (typical of New Negro writing, but very emphasized here). Also there are a few David Lynchian scenes in the cabarets that leave you wondering...
A page turner for me. Wish I had read it in my youth. I reccommend if you are interested in this period and the social customs of Harlem. Great description of the difficulties surviving as a black and how very many were able to avoid it by "passing over".
