https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/40651883-snow-crash
Disliking this book seemed quite impossible. After all, it had all the necessary ingredients: the pervasive air of nerdy geekiness (or, perhaps, geeky nerdiness), an unexpected take on linguistics, a kick-ass female character, a parallel (virtual) reality, a hefty helping of (admittedly, overexaggerated) satire, and just enough wacky improbable worldbuilding to satisfy my book loving soul. Or so it seemed.But awesome ingredients do not always add up to a satisfying dish (as my horrible cook self
Alas, after the first few pages my good-natured amusement gave way to irritated frustration, then to impatience, and eventually, as the book was nearing its final pages, my feelings changed to dreaded passionless indifference - akin to the emotions stirred by a disclaimer on the back of a pill packet.It is very disappointing when a book leaves you indifferent after hundreds of pages spent with the characters and the plotlines - especially when it is a book with such immense potential as 'Snow Crash' had based on all the reviews and snippets I have seen, with all the ingredients for an amazing sci-fi adventure I listed above.
To me, the concept of Snow Crash initially evoked the memories of Delany's Babel-17, a book that I loved for all it's strangeness and far-fetchedness and irresistible pull into the blend of linguistics and sci-fi.
And, if Stephenson had not boiled it all together enough into a steaming cup of Have At You!, then he also has the best name for a lead character of all time: Hiro Protagonist.
A very, very Goodread, five stars, two snaps and a bag of chips.** 2018 addendum - it is a testament to great literature that a reader recalls the work years later and this is a book about which I frequently think.
As great a hero as Hiro is, the scenes between Raven and YT are those that I recall the most and Raven is a character about whom more could be written.
Written by someone who -unlike William Gibson- actually knows computers, this anime in novel form is one of those rare SF books that is read by many non-SF readers.
Plus I hated that job.Admittedly, there are certain aspects of this book that are a tad dated now (it was written in 1991), and he can’t quite get past certain stereotypes of Japanese people that many Westerners harbor.
I know that a lot of people find this part of the book to be boring, but I was fully engrossed.
me lu lu mu al nu um me en ki me en me lu lu mu me al nu um me al nu um me me mu lu e al nu um me dug ga mu me mu lu e al nu um me...
In the beginning of the book he almost failed at pizza delivery - this is a very serious business in the future handled entirely by the Mafia.
I need to mention her skateboard makes famous hoverboard from Back to the Future look like a children bike with training wheels.
Finally in the second half of the book I got a clue when things went WAY over the top.
The biggest one: the book is written in present tense.
The final rating for the book is 3.5 stars.
Finally I realized I really need to update the rating; so here it is: 3 stars.
It had great world building, great concepts, and great satire, but story wise the last 20% completely falls apart. I was a little disappointed by the ending. Also, I had a hard time with the active voice used throughout this book. Reading it felt like a friend pitching a movie to me.The language-as-programming concept was terrific though, even though I think that Max Barry (obviously influenced by this book) wrote a much more compelling story using the same high concepts when he wrote Lexicon.
SWEET, as J.T. would say.My favorite parts: Stephenson's out-of-this-world unique writing style, the analogy of hacking into a persons brain using language in the same way people hack into computers using code, the amazing action sequences, use of the second person (you/we) to directly connect to the reader, the sections written from the robot dog's perspective, the use of binary code-type language in terms like "hacker" and "harpooning" (for example, the hero can both "hack" into a computer AND "hack" your body to pieces with a katana).
So, four stars for the fact that the novel passes the Bechdel test, and for having created the eminently likeable character Y.T. But minus a star for the jarring racism and lack of cultural and ethnic sensitivity, and minus another star for setting my teeth on edge with his loopy ideas and his lopsided, cartoony projections into a future consisting of what feels like a world constructed of cardboard cutouts.(And minus a virtual star for positing that patriarchal religions are more rational than matriarchal ones.
Juvenile nerd power fantasy in a nutshellI'm a big fanboy of the cyberpunk genre.
Instead, I can honestly say that hate this book-- and I also feel bad saying that about someone's work, because it's almost like saying you hate someone's baby.
Apparently some people's funny bones get tickled by similes comparing military bases to boils on someone's ass, metaphors about valleys and geological cunnilingus, and clever wordplay like calling refugees "Refus" (Refuse, har har har, get it?).
I read people talking about how this book made them howl with laughter, but almost everything fell pretty flat for me.

For once, the inside voice was right–this was a book I didn’t want to miss.The opening scene of a mad-cap pizza delivery quickly draws the reader in.
He’s racing against the clock, trying to get the pizza delivered so Uncle Enzo, spokesman and Don, doesn’t have to apologize and give up a whole wad of cash.
Her actions bring her to the attention of Uncle Enzo.
Hiro’s actions, unfortunately cost him his job, but it isn’t long before his genius ex-girlfriend recruits him to find a virus that’s wiping computers clean–and hackers’ minds.That’s just the first few pages.

On one level, this is a story about a hacker and a 15-year-old futuristic-skateboard-riding courier girl who team up to save the world from a religious cult on one hand, and a mutant motorcyclist Aleutian who has a nuclear bomb and a grudge on the other.
But on another level, this is a book about language, and brain structure, and viruses, and religion.
And what if the development of all the myriad of languages humans now speak happened because of a virus?
And what if there were religious cults, worshippers of an ancient Sumerian deity, whose purpose was to spread those viruses?
Like any Stephenson novel, it’s a trainwreck.But Stephenson can create such beautiful trainwrecks.
If you look away from the unfortunate fact nobody has apparently told him how a story works, or how to create a somewhat multi-dimensional character, you can appreciate the marvel that is a Stephenson setting and the love of knowledge that shines from the pages.This particular novel is a chaotic blend of good and bad, beautiful and ugly, clean and messy.
Take your pick.I did not find this very enjoyable, mostly because I simply didn't enjoy the setting as much, and ran across some pretty annoying flaws.

“If you know how to catch a ride, you can go places.” Super entertaining ride through dystopia and pizza delivery (as if there was any real difference in the two), ancient Sumerian mythology, computer and religious viruses, hacker groups and some very strange and creepily familiar communities in Neal Stephenson’s Snow Crash!
Even though it has an edgier, science fiction feel to it, Snow Crash reminds me of one of my favorite novels, Thomas Pynchon’s V (as well as a Pynchon novella, The Crying of Lot 49).
There were other likeable characters like the young skate punk, Y.T. Despite some issues down the stretch with the plot, I really enjoyed Snow Crash!
The first one I read was Cryptonomicon, then the Baroque Cycle and then Anathem.
So going back to one of his earlier and 'simpler' novels seemed like it'd be a breeze after having to practically learn a fictional language to finish Anathem.While Snow Crash may have some more familiar sci-fi tropes (hackers, skateboarders and virtual reality are now almost stereotypes although I'm sure it seemed fresh in '92 when this was written), it still has the brain-bustin' Stephenson style theories in it.
Reading this book is like watching the Matrix for the first time.
Though it may lack pretense of more complex literature, it asks vague and interesting enough questions to match The Bard's sophistry.
Beyond that it is just a great read.
It shows a vision of the future that seems eminently likely, but unlike 1984 or Brave New World, has not started to feel stilted.
It also lack the long-winded philosophical diatribes and allegories that stagnate that breed of classics.
Perhaps this is why his other works never match Snowcrash's frenetic teenage energy and sensuality.
I wish there were more books this interesting and enjoyable.
And something happens and it's really pretty unspectacular, like in the painting analogy there is all this great layering going on and what is produced is some big yellow smiley face, but this book is better than that but it was still something of a let down when you realize that all the build up, all the different organizations and people and neat ideas were all just so that what happened could happen in the book.
DNF @ 15%Alright, so this is doing absolutely nothing for me. It's dense with tech lingo & not incredibly compelling & so maybe I'll come back to it later.
The book is let down by its poor plot - on a par with a bad James Bond movie - two questionable scenes (in my mind), and a particularly unbelievable resolution of the 'snow crash' mystery.
The first one centers on the scene where our 15 year old heroine, Y.T. is seduced by arch - villain Raven.
I 'll let you make your own mind up on this one.The other scene touches upon the name of one of the refugee that helps Hiro to get onto the villain's boat lair - that poor block's name is Transubstanciacion and we are told that everyone's calling him 'Tranny'.
Neal Stephenson's  characters and I seem share quite a few interests (some of which are, admittedly, not for everybody). Though   Snow Crash   seems to be Stephenson's most popular book, I wouldn't give it the kind of universal recommendation status merited by the likes of   Zodiac  . However, I think it would appeal to a broader audience than say,   Cryptonomicon  , or   Reamde   (only in part due to the fact that those two each clock in at over 1,000 pages).So, let's get that snow crashing! O
(only in part due to the fact that those two each clock in at over 1,000 pages).So, let's get that snow crashing!
Hiro Protagonist
Hiro's imaginary report card would read: 
Hiro's cooperation skills are put to the test when our other lead character, 15-year-old courier 
situation (a certain world's greatest secret agent would be decidedly uncomfortable in this Stephenson verse).
Science or Fiction?As in the other Stephenson books I've read, the sheer power of his intellect is on display in this one.
There's a reason “that many readers seem to have [difficulty] in identifying the boundary between fact and fiction” in your books.
The keepers of these important documents were priests referred to as en; some of them, like the god/semi-historical-figure Enki, could write new me, making them the equivalent of programmers or hackers.As Stephenson describes it, one goddess/semi-historical figure, Asherah, took it upon herself to create a dangerous biolinguistic virus and infect all peoples with it; this virus was stopped by Enki, who used his skills as a "neurolinguistic hacker" to create an inoculating "nam-shub" that would protect humanity by destroying its ability to use and respond to the Sumerian tongue.
When I first read Snow Crash, I thought to myself: "This thing is paced like a comic." Funny then to later discover that the novel was written after a comic book attempt at the same story fell apart.Snow Crash is the paradigmatic Stephenson novel.
This is probably Stephenson's best, most memorable work.
(Which is probably why I've read it ten times.)UPDATE: Yep. Still one of my all-time-favorites.UPDATE: See also: Filet of Meta-Conflict.------SEE ALSO• "10 Science Fiction Books That I Love (and you will at least like a lot)" at litreactor• OMNI Reboot: Reviewing Neil Stephenson's Snow Crash (sic)
The same root gave us 'scythe' and 'scissors' and 'schism,' which have obvious connections to the concept of separation."?- Can you identify when MSG when "Chinese food without MSG" is mentioned?No, that was not for you Heisenberg!- Do you think of petting a radio-isotopic dog, ever?- Do you love (or don't mind) the bustling overflow of technologically-whacky metaphors: "logos with a lot of bright, hideous yellow in them, and so Alameda Street is clearly marked out before him, a gout of radioactive urine ejected south from the dead center of L.A."or"track him down through the moiling chaos of the microwaved franchise and confront him in a climactic thick-crust apocalypse."or"when the temperature has greenhoused up to a hundred and ten degrees".(I would like to cite some more of them whacky ones, but why don't you check them out yourself?)- Do you like reading about awesomely described (Oh and one of my most favourite) bad-ass bad guys?
Snow Crash just has so much going on—and all with the breathless pace and visual flair of the video games the author must surely have had in mind during composition—that even the harshest critic should find something to like inside.
Which phrase can actually be liberally applied to the entirety of Stephenson's genre (b)ending book, beginning with what everybody first notices: that Hiro Protagonist works when, by any measure, it should have tripped the author up flat right there on the first page.
Sometimes I find it impossible to choose the next book I want to read.
So whenever I have a case of analysis paralysis while staring at my bookshelf, I ask my husband Kacy to pick me a book.
Sadly reading Snow Crash was a case of the latter, just like with Americanah.This was really disappointing for me!
It felt really choppy and unfocused to me, and all of the history stuff could have been condensed into a single chapter-- just completely tedious infodumping.
It felt very "I am Very Smart" and just ugh.
The novel is fast paced with moments of dialogue and original writing that made me laugh out loud (okay, perhaps just chuckle quietly in appreciation).
I appreciate the book's originality and can only imagine how surreal it must have been to read when it was originally published in 1992 (by today's standards, the technology that plays an integral part throughout the book is eerily familiar, especially given the book's context).
While I enjoyed the novel, parts of it felt disjointed and it suffered a bit from the hype that surrounds it as this resulted in my having certain set expectations before I began reading the book.
Thankfully, I can report that I quite enjoyed this one, and had none of the bumpy ride that Cryptonomicon gave me.
The casual misogyny was nowhere in sight, thank goodness.
Also, at only 400 pages, this was a much tighter story, and better because of that.
Stephenson's still packing in a million ideas a minute, but that's okay, I can deal with that.
In fact, I quite enjoy that.
Note: The rest of this review has been withdrawn due to the changes in Goodreads policy and enforcement.
You can read why I came to this decision here.In the meantime, you can read the entire review at Smorgasbook
This book is awful. Never ever read it. It's mastubatory shit written by a self-absorbed pseudo academic with a lolita syndrome or ephebophilia. I can't really decide which. Read Neuromancer instead.
