https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/172366.The_Library_of_Babel
I am often appalled at the amount of time I waste on this site, but comfort myself with the thought that it has helped me find some amazing books I normally wouldn't even have considered.
I calculate that, since I started hanging out here in late 2008, I have read 42 books just because someone here has recommended them.
(I didn't count books recommended by people on Goodreads whom I also know in real life, otherwise the figure would be considerably higher).
I challenge you to read it without giggling helplessly at least a couple of times.
Each book contains 410 pages, with 40 lines of 80 letters each.
Most of the books are complete gibberish, of course, but like the Infinite Monkey Theorem says, if you have enough monkeys banging away on typewriters for long enough (i.e., infinite time and infinite monkeys), eventually they’ll write Hamlet.But life for the people dwelling in this library is profoundly frustrating, even depressing, since only a vanishingly small percentage of the books make any sense at all.
There's not any real plot to this story; it feels more like an essay or an intellectual exercise ("How would people react if...").
Hey, you. Yea, I am talking to you! Do you want to get freaked out by the sheer magnitude of an idea that's right in front of you? Step right in!In this short story, Author Jorge Luis Borges envisions a universe in the form of a vast library, a library of meticulous pattern and structure. In this library, you can find an incomprehensible number of hexagonal rooms with a specific number of books: Books that contain all knowledge of the universe. But here is the catch:  All this knowledge is mixed
Step right in!In this short story, Author Jorge Luis Borges envisions a universe in the form of a vast library, a library of meticulous pattern and structure.
Any English sentence/paragraph of length 3200 characters can be found this library mixed with Babel.
the library contains every sentence you have ever said or will say in future, It contains every book ever written or will be written, It contains the first words you ever said and last words you will say, it contains secrets to the universe and unfortunately or fortunately, it contains a lot of gibberish.
So, this is a short story, but there is so much in it that I reread it a half dozen times, found a few audio readings and looked up summaries trying to grasp the whole story.
There are only four shelves of books in each room and most are in languages hard to decipher.
There are some wanderers who travel from hexagon to hexagon looking for the perfect book.
(Which they never find) and there are others on a pilgrimage looking for a magical book that was read by a messiah.
But the author says that doesn't matter because there are hundreds of copies of each book spread throughout.
This is one of the the longer stories in The Garden of Forking Paths, published in 1941.The universe is an infinite Library.
Each vestibule has “a mirror which faithfully duplicates appearances”, leading men to infer that the Library is not infinite, otherwise “what need would there be for that illusory replication?”But it is infinite: the books contain “all that is able to be expressed, in every language”, composed of the same alphabetic elements, and each is unique.
More specifically, the story of The Book of Sand is like the Library of Babel in miniature: a single, infinite book.
Found this to be a great analogy to the world we live in.
That's pretty much how I read this short story, in life it is feasible to live the 'perfect' life, since the variables are there, however since there is no distinctive guide to do so, we are forced to do our best to sort through the gibberish (in the story, being the books which made sense no matter how you looked at them) to opportunities that may have a glimpse of hope for positive results.So yeah, we live in a world like The Library of Babel, where potentially the answer to all of life's issues are out there somewhere, but since we have no means of locating it, we're stuck in the chaos that is existence as we know it.The build-up of imagery at the beginning was also spectacular.
Cheers Borges!
In the brief prose piece The Four Cycles Jorge Luis Borges wrote that there are only four stories in the world: the story of war, the story of return, the story of search and the story of sacrifice (Troy, Ulysses, Jason, Christ).
“Four are the stories.
During the time left to us we will continue telling them, transformed.”And there is no other writer who can retell these four stories the way Jorge Luis Borges does transforming them into intellectual labyrinths and scholarly conundrums.
He turns the world into The Library of Babel, the probability theory into The Garden of Forking Paths and the first letter of the Hebrew alphabet into a locus of magic – Aleph.
Borges's philosophical short-story describes the universe in terms of an infinite library constructed in a series of hexagon galleries in which the books contain every possible combination of letters, spaces and punctuation marks providing a metaphor for thinking about knowledge and truth.
As a paradox of infinite possibilities, some of the volumes within turn out to be what appears to be complete gibberish, Some go nuts from the despair of trying to logically understand and catalogue every book in the library, whilst some take a leap of faith.
He evokes a sense of wonder and the infinite possibilities that go with it like nobody else.
Možda Borhes i nije sa ove planete.
بورخس رو خيليا دوست ندارن، و خيلي بيشتر از اون خيليا، بار اول دوستش ندارن. دو بار خوندمش پشت هم تا فهميدم چي شد، شايدم هنوز كامل نفهميدما! از شدت پست مدرني گاهي شبيه به مقاله ميشه، از اون مقاله ها كه خط بعدو ميخوني خط قبلو يادت ميره، بي نظير بود. Borges! Welcome to favorite zone!
You who read me - are you certain you understand my language?Understanding?
Certain?
Wouldn't even pretend.
A Kaleidoscope of earlier ideas like Borel's dactylographic monkey theorem, Pascal's metaphor and Robert Burton's variations, a mathematical thought experiment with infinities and labyrinths that employs cabalistic reasoning which blurs the infinite and the finite with philosophical implications that puts the Gita in mind, a melting pot of motifs that would influence Eco's influential masterpiece - the name of the rose, and a strange allegory that had me reading all over the internet and pondering for hours I know not how many.
استعاره ای قشنگ تر از این تا حالا نخوندم!
Easily one of the strangest books I've ever read. I actually ordered it by accident, thinking it was an anthology. But actually this entire slender volume is devoted to one Borges short story, complete with beautiful etchings showing that his impossible library is actually possible. While it's not worth the cover price for everyone, anyone who dismissed his fictional library should flip through these pages and see that he wasn't writing flippantly. As "Library of Babel" was possibly Borges' most imaginative piece of fiction, it's wonderful to see it given shape - as wonderful as it is unexpected.
To read Borges is to immerse myself in a magical world where the concept of infinity manifests in space and time, where the boundary between dream and reality fades, where the past and the future converge into an instant, where levels of texts superimpose on one another, where fiction imitates nonfiction and life is a drama on stage.
Interestingly, in Eco’s The Name of the Rose, the blind monk who oversees the library is named Jorge of Burges.I recommend Borges to anyone who wants to dream of magical worlds, who wants to reflect on reality and fiction, who wants to analyze the boundary between text and the interpreter, and who wants to contemplate on the nature of infinity.
" I am perhaps misled by old age and fear, but I suspect that the human species - the only species - teeters at the verge of extinction, yet that the Library enlightened, solitary, infinite, perfectly unmoving, armed with precious volumes, pointless, incorruptible, and secret-will endure."
Tarsi klaidžiotum po žmogaus genomą ar visatos kodą.
You can type in any paragraph, from the opening of your own novel to the end of your favorite thriller, and find that it already exists in a specific page of a specific book on a specific shelf in the library.Navigating the site is an eerie experience.
A precise description of the manner and date of your death exists in the library.
A precise description of what your friends really think about you exists in the library.They already exist, waiting to be uncovered, amongst unimaginable piles of gibberish and fragments.I only wonder what Borges would've thought of it.
برخی دیگر عقلشان را از دست دادند...نمیتوان انکار کرد که توجیه ها وجود دارد اما جویندگان متوجه نمیشدند که برای یک انسان احتمال یافتن کتاب حقانیت خویشتن، یا حتی یک نسخه خائنانه از توجیه خود، نزدیک صفر است."نویسنده هستی رو به شکل یک کتابخونه ی بزرگ به تصویر میکشه که تمام کتاب هایی که نوشته شده یا میشه نوشته بشه توی اون وجود داره.
کتابهایی که شاید انقدر قدیمی یا عجیب و رمزآلود باشن که بی معنی به نظر برسن؛ شاید انسانها نتونن اونهارو درک کنن و به دنبال پیدا کردن حقانیت وجودشون نابود یا دیوانه بشن.
Before you read this book, drink a cup of coffee and solve a math problem or two (preferably a geometrical problem, and it would be great if it involved hexagons). This is definitely not an easy book. At least not for me. But it is amazing, full of imagination and wonder! :)
All books that will ever be written exist, we have just not created them yet. This is what Borges postulates with this short story. My initial reaction to reading this is that it is a mildly arrogant viewpoint. But then again, is it really less arrogant than us saying that we were the ones that wrote the book, that it was generated by the human mind? I don’t think we can answer for certain either of these things. What I do know is that this is a damn good short story.
Un libro increíble. Una imaginación alucinante. La matemática en muchas direcciones. No me cansaré de leer a Borges. Cómo quisiera regalarle una biblioteca de babel a cada uno de mis estudiantes.
4.5
I first heard of it while reading this essay by Christopher Rowe.I know that Borges is really discussing the history, and completeness, of human knowledge but his essay, as Rowe suggests, has marked implications for those trying to create a universal library today.
The sheer futility of gathering every last letter of every last book that has ever existed, or that could possibly have existed, is put across quite clearly by Borges.The resulting chaos of having to wade through mountains of garbage to find the occasional book that is readable, or desirable, seems to point directly to our modern experience with the internet.
Imagine that the Universe could be a library....and the worlds its books. It's important that we all read this story because it's the story of our shared experiences... of our shared humanity. It's a short story yet an epic. And speaking anymore of it would disturb its outrageously imaginative story line. Read it. You will be glad you did! 4.5 stars.
As a fan of Umberto Eco and The Name of the Rose I knew that Borges and Joyce were required reading. This short story by Borges is brilliant and demands many more readings. His influence on Eco is clearly seen. Looking forward to reading more of his work, and then on to Joyce!
"When I am dead, compassionate hands will throw me over the railing; my tomb will be the unfathomable air, my body will sink for ages, and will decay and dissolve in the wind engendered by my fall, which shall be infinite."
You who read me, are you sure you’re understanding my language?Nope, not this time Borges. I still like you!!!
3.5 stars
An extended metaphor for infinite knowledge and the inconceivable scope of the universe.
There’s no story; it’s just a very long piece of fictional discourse that begs one to consider the phenomenon that if all knowledge was within human reach, it would be impossible to either consume it in it’s entirety, or uncover the prime source that reveals all meaning.Alas, Google has kind of made the entire concept out-dated.
A simple search engine—yes, even Bing would suffice—completely nullifies the scope of infinity.
Information may indeed be vast, but a few decades of technological advancements have left Borges’ poignant considerations light years behind.
«Si el honor y la sabiduría y la felicidad no son para mí, que sean para otros. Que el cielo exista, aunque mi lugar sea el infierno. Que yo sea ultrajado y aniquilado, pero que en un instante, en un ser, tu enorme Biblioteca se justifique.»Una sola página que justifique el universo, que justifique nuestra existencia, la probabilidad no obstante es computable en cero, y aún con todo en contra Borges está ahí disponible para todos los que quieran cuestionar los influjos de la realidad. Nunca me cansaré de releerle, un lujo como siempre.
