https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/17514.The_Mystery_of_the_Disappearing_Cat
Interested in seeing them, the children make friends with the gardener’s boy, fifteen-year-old Luke, who is slow at some things but deft with his hands, tending the garden and carving whistles and model cats for the children, particularly little Bets.
They set out to solve the mystery and along the way, end up playing some tricks on poor Mr Goon whose ankles are once again Buster’s target.This was one of the more creative of the findouters mysteries where the “how” was great fun, much more interesting than book 1 (which wasn’t all that straightforward either).
I did solve this mystery right out - as any kid with a brain that's halfway functioning will. However, the story was enjoyable all the same. I loved the bumbling P. C. Goon - idiot policemen were a staple of Malayalam movies in that era.
I decided to read this book because it recommended by one of my friend.
This book fits in the ' a book with a male main character' no the bingo board.
The most interesting character I found in this book was the cat because even when the book finished you couldn't solve the mystery of it because it kept on appering and disappering .My favorite quote from this book is 'what is wrong with this cat' beacuse that quotes shows the importance of the cat.
Lastly from this book I have learned that there are mysteries in real life because as I read the book it made me believe that.
This was another really adorable story, with a charming cast of secondary characters -- I really liked their new friend Luke, who's kind and helpful even though he's kind of being abused by the adults in his life.
I also liked that there was a different mystery trope explored here (an innocent party looks like the only credible suspect), rather than a rehash of the first book (misdirection!).
You've got to think of all these things."On one hand, I'm glad they're maturing and learning from past experiences; on the other, I'm really sad they're gradually realising how selfish and shit adults can be.
So sweet, I loved it!
I liked it more then the first and I thought Bets seemed a bit more grown up.Also I liked there friend Luke.My favourite find-outers were Fatty and Bets and my favourite grown up or suspect was Miss Harmer.Its soooooo 5/5 stars!Can't wait to read the next one!
A fun, fast journey through the lives of the Five Find-Outers and Buster. This book is one that I remember almost nothing of and it seemed as if I was reading it for the first time. So it seemed more exciting than usual to read about how Fatty was being clever and pompous, how Bets was typically like herself and also had her own share of clever epiphanies, how Buster traipsed about happily and peeved Goon to no end; it is always fun to read Enid Blyton.
This is what got me started reading in English ( I am Maltese, English is my second language) and this book is what I talked about in my English class, It is one of my favorites for sure :)
Salaisuus-kirjat ovat kovin laimeita verrattuna Blytonin Seikkailu-sarjaan ja Viisikkoonkin. Henkilöhahmot ovat kovin hengettömiä: Larry ja Kris ovat lähinnä reippaita ja kunnollisia statisteja ja Riki huolehtivainen mutta kärsimätön isoveli. Besin ainoa luonteenpiirre tuntuu olevan ikä (alle 10 vuotta) ja Pulla on lihavansorttinen, omahyväinen aasi, jolla on jotenkuten toimivat aivot. Sinänsä tämäkin Salaisuus-tarina on ihan hyvä. Ainekset olisi parempaankin: hieman hitaammalla tahdilla Blyton olisi saanut tästä mainion kirjan. Huumoria voisi hakea jostain muualtakin kuin äkäisestä kyläpoliisista ja ärsyttävästä rakista, joka tuntuu rakastavan ainoastaan housunlahkeita ja ruokaa.
It is a good book full of mystery I felt this because this is my first book of mystery. I liked fatty's the best. The end was the best. I am going to read the 5th book " THE MYSTERY OF THE MISSING NECKLACE ", because I didnt like the 3rd "THE MYSTERY OF THE SECRET DOOR ". I didn't have the 4th one and I couldn't buy it too. So, I started the 5th one.  " Thank you for reading "
Overall, the second book of the series was nice. Though I found the story revolving around particular find-outer....more than a team work. But no regrets in the storyline. The Mystery was unpredictable as for kids, and for me as well.
Great read- my faves are still the Famous Five- I think these were for younger children but still highly entertaining
I think this was one of the first, if not the very first, chapter books I ever read. Love the Five Find-Outers and now my children enjoy them too.
Mukava tarina katoilevasta kissasta. Hieman ennalta arvattava.
Sadly a little dated. Nostalgic for me though!
Another childhood favourite now available as a ebook :-)

This was the first proper book that I read all by myself when I was a child.
Though my copy was passed on to younger siblings (not before being re-read several times) and has probably long since disintegrated, I still have a great affection for this story.This is the second of the stories featuring the group of children who call themselves the five find-outers.
On it's own this book is an entertaining little mystery:- it is only when you read other books in the series that you realize that the culprit is almost always the one unpleasant character in the story (apart from the hopeless village policeman, Mr Goon) and can too easily be spotted by the average eight year old.
Kembali saya membaca Pasukan Mau Tahu lagi.. yay! Pada buku kedua ini, seperti yang digambarkan oleh sinopsis diatas, mereka mencoba membantu Lady Chandling tetangga mereka yang kaya. Disini saya semakin menyenangi karakter Fatty, yang meskipun sok tahu, suka pamer, dan senang 'membantah', namun ia sungguh sayang kepada Bets, anggota Pasukan Mau Tahu yang paling muda. Ketika pendapat Bets diremehkan, Fatty selalu ada untuk membela. Hal ini membuat Bets merasa diperhatikan dan tidak minder saat menyampaikan ide-idenya yang cemerlang.MORE REVIEW PLEASE VISIT link: KILAS BUKU
Again, the characterisation is good but the "detective" aspect of the story is rather inadequate and annoying - Bets actually solves the mystery in its entirety when they first examine the cat-house, but no one picks up on the significance of her remarks.Any detective worth his salt would have taken what Bets said and started joining the dots from there, but the Five Find-Outers are quickly becoming exactly like the Secret Seven in their determination to fumble about in the dark for most of the book without doing any real detective work.
The second book in the series sees Fatty not be the overbearing character he turns into in the later books. Later on it seems as if he does all the clever things, but in the beginning it is a little more equal with even Bets being the one to spot the clues. I liked my cover for this book, featuring a wide eyed Siamese face above the running Find Outers below. Another fun book, and read very quickly due to the simple nature (plus I wanted to know if I was right with who had stolen the cat- I was!)
Luin tämän pojalleni, joka piti ensimmäisestä osasta valtavasta. Ja piti tästäkin. Aikuiseen makuun tässä tarinassa ei juuri ole jännitystä tai yllätyksiä eikä edes pääse arvuuttelemaan rotukissan varastajaa, tämä kun on se vaihtoehdoista itsestäänselvin. Tarina lähtee todella hitaasti liikkeelle ja varsinaiset tapahtumat kasaantuvat kirjan loppupuoliskolle. Kokonaisuutena jotenkin lattea kertomus... vähän välityön makuinen. 7 vuotias poikani piti kuitenkin niin paljon, että täytynee vielä ainakin seuraava hänelle lukea.
Saya baca Pasukan Mau Tahu enggak urut. Ini bukan buku Pasukan Mau Tahu kedua yang saya baca. Makanya saya lumayan kaget waktu ternyata Fatty belum seakrab dengan Pip, Bets, Daisy, dan Larry di buku-buku selanjutnya. Menyenangkan sekali membaca kehidupan bocah-bocah Inggris di pertengahan abad ke-20.
STOP, PMT and Lima Sekawan are great friends for every child back then, even an active one like me who like to run and jumped all over the place. These books surely kept me calm until the last page, and it brought smile to my parents too, seeing their little girl left her bicycle that have the possibility adding more scars in her knees :D
Serial pasukan mau tahu ini merupakan salah satu serial karangan Enid Blyton yang sangat saya sukai. Bertema liburan dan petualangan menarik seputar hilangnya seekor kucing siam seorang Lady. Tidak lupa persaingan antara mereka berlima dan Pak Goon, seorang polisi desa yang selalu kalah dalam hal selidik-menyelidik.
I really liked the way they found all the clues, both times the cat disappeared. I also enjoyed the way they found ways to get keys and other things they needed to solve the mystery without being seen by grown-ups.
Have been re-reading these books from my childhood and enjoying the elements I didn't notice 40 years ago. I especially like the bit in this book when Luke introduces a new word to the children. Enid Blyton makes sure the word is repeated again and again for the reader. Good fun.
I enjoyed this more than the first in this series. Again, I was the winner in the "who dunnit" competition!! The kids were amazed that I'd guessed the plot (again)! They also enjoyed this more that "the burnt cottage". We'll have a break before coming back to the next one.
Pengalaman tak terlupakan membaca novel ini... misteri sebuah peristiwa kriminal terbongkar hanya gara-gara sebuah cat pada ekor kucing siam untuk menutupi kejahatannya! Percaya deh, ini bukan karena saya fans (berat) bangsa kucing;)
seingat gw, Misteri Kucing Siam ini termasuk dalam serial pasukan mau tahu yang paling lucu.. dimana Fatty banyak bikin lelucon dengan menggoda Mr. Goon si polisi desa :) cerita keseluruhannya gw agak lupa. :)
