https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/53111.Duino_Elegies
Rainer Maria Rilke (1875-1926) - http://ow.ly/WMMp302k6SE Es penoso estar muerto y, trabajoso,ir recobrando poco a poco un mínimode eternidad.Pero todos los vivos cometen el errorde querer distinguir con excesivarotundidad.
. ¡Y nosotrosmeros espectadoresen todo tiempo, en todos los lugares,vueltos siempre hacia todo y nunca más allá!El mundo nos agobia.Lo organizamos.
Como el que sobre la última colina,desde donde divisa todo el valle,una vez más, se vuelve, se detiene y rezaga,así vivimos-despidiéndonos siempre.
. Y nosotros, que siempre hemos esperado mirarcómo asciendela felicidad, sentiríamos el enternecimientoque casi nos trastornacuando la dicha cae.
I was trying to understand beauty.How silly of me. One elegy after another,I realized you submit to beauty and itsconsequences( which hopefully last in you, or so you wish).And complete surrender is a journey on a bridge of understanding with cables of faith dangling and holding them. Once over, you light up the bridge to see what new travails unfold before you in the newly surrendered land.Praise be to beauty. Praise be to eyes that look for it.Now back to the elegies.
So much like the man on the final hillthat shows him his whole valley for one last time,who turns, and stops there, lingering-,this, then, is how we live, forever taking our leave."In the Ninth Elegy he has advice for us when we address the angels and God:"Praise the world to the Angel, not the unspeakable one, youcan't impress him with grand emotion: in the Universe,where he feels so intensely, you are only a beginner.
These poems blew my mind, kicked my ass and sent chills down my back.
Never have poems so resonated with that dark secret place I keep hidden from view.
But these poems threw back the curtain and shined with angelic vengeance upon my internal cowardice.
And this, really, is what I want poems to do: let me know I am not alone and that others have felt as despondant and helpless (in a very mental and spiritual way) as I have.
I almost didn't finish reading the poems because I felt my heart being stabbed (literally) and I couldn't take, what Henry James calls, the surprise of recognition.
I thought Stephen Mitchell's translation was the best that could ever possibly exist.
I was, happily, totally wrong.
The Chrichtons bring out a sort of conversational quality in the writing which I hadn't been aware even existed.
Rilke's meditations are spectral, evanescent, secular and luminous.
I didn't know there were other ways to appraoch the Elegies and now I see that there's a whole new world inside this text I was never quite aware of before.
If you're already into Rilke, and even if you're not, do yourself a huge favor and dig in to the primal metaphysical mojo going on here.
I find writing about poetry extremely difficult because we enter the realm of pure emotions, of the perfect magic that words can possess, and what each reader thinks, and feels, when reading a poem, is not only very personal but also, quite often, impossible to define and to reduce into a few sentences.
But Rilke could well be my favorite poet, for reasons that I can't explain, except that the scope of his visions, both extraordinarily intimate and magnificently epic, and the power of his writing, touch me deeply.
Rilke's Duino Elegies are a contender for the greatest lyric sequence of the 20th century in a century that featured some really great ones, by Yeats, H.D.
Lots of the translations of Rilke's Elegies in English are really mediocre: turgid Rilke is a complete contradiction in terms.
David Young's is by far the best in print for English-speaking readers.
These versions by poet David P.
Young use Williams' triadic or 3-step line to give Rilke's Germanic syntax in English light and grace and power, balancing rapidity of thought with poise and depth.
Plus there are very useful notes.
Rilke'nin dimağından farklı olacağını düşündüğüm bir kitaptı.-olacağı-nı dememdeki sebep ise şiirler ( ağıtlar ) hissiyatıma çok yakın başlayarak, her ağıtta bir adım daha uzaklaşarak maalesef kayboldu.Özellikle birilerine ithaf edilmiş çok ağıt var. Kişileri de bilmemekten kaynaklı uzaktan bakan kişi oldum.Sorun bende mi acaba diye öğrencilerime de derslerde bir kaç ağıtı okudum, genel yapısından başka çok da fazla his uyandırmadı.Yine de aralardan seçtiğim parça cümleler ve tamlamaları paylaş

Provavelmente merece 5 *, mas de tão metafórico que é, senti-me afundar num abismo de sombras e emergir bêbada de ignorância.
The question is what I have learned from this book, and my response is difficult to give. Rilke offers so much to us; it is kind of him. Everybody should read this, not out of courtesy for the genius but for self-benefit. The poems here are often overwhelming and will touch your mind in places you have never before been touched in. It is beautiful, intrusive, and works better than a mirror.
Extract from the The Third Elegy -One thing to sing the beloved, another, alas!that hidden guilty river-god of the blood.He whom she knows from afar, her lover, what does he knowof that Lord of Pleasure, who often, out of his lonely heart,before she had soothed him, often as though she did not exist,streaming from, oh, what unknowable depths, would uplifthis god-head, uprousing the night to infinite uproar?Oh, the Neptune within our blood, oh, his terrible trident!Oh, the gloomy blast of his breast from the twisted shell!Hark, how the night grows fluted and hollowed.
i read the most of this on my weekly commute from manhattan to brooklyn and i would read it aloud softly to myself and everything would become so real, so meaningful, so much more. there is an astute clarity to his writing, a truth in his poetry that is so stoic and so human. his words vibrate. read him. it's worth it.
And so we press on and try to achieve it,try to contain it in our simple hands,in our brimming eyes, our voiceless heart.Rilke is both the reason I mistrust translations and the exception to my rule.
Incredibly beautiful and illuminating. I already have some passages memorized and hope to learn more.
"Jeder Engel ist Schrecklich" If you're somewhat acquainted with the German language (Like yours truly) I strongly suggest reading the bilingual edition. Reading the German parallel to the English is a great way to get under Rilke's skin and absorb his incredible poetry.
Absolutely soul-searching fantastic. I loved the translation, and furthermore the poems themselves reflect this search for God that is all at once suprising and familiar. I have a new crush and his name is Rilke.
This is a lyrical and beautiful set of 10 elegies...it is bittersweet, brings forth feelings of longing, of desire, nostalgia--but the longing is at once for the past, for the future, for what is inevitable: death, and the nostalgia for the same, with the knowledge that death must come and a feeling of longing to know the god/spirit/creature that is all-knowing.
It collapses.We arrange it again, and collapse ourselves.Who has turned us round like this, so that,whatever we do, we always have the aspectof one who leaves?
Beautifully written on the topics most subtle and high of life, the myths all humans live, all the unsaid is revealed in these poems. The Duino Elegies changed my life, shattered the illusion of the material plane and reminded me that poetry is a conduit of truth and elation. These poems are melancholic and take many readings to truly experience the unfolding of its emotion and relevance. I cried in ecstasy the first time I read them, and they changed my life.
Ποιος, αν κραύγαζα, θα μ’ άκουγε τάχα απ’ των Αγγέλων τα Τάγματα;κι αν ένας μ’ έσφιγγεν ακόμα, ξαφνικά πάνω στην καρδιά του, θα διαλυόμουν κάτω από την δυνατότερη ύπαρξη του.Γιατί, η Ομορφιά, δεν είναι παρά η αρχή του Τρομερού, που μόλις μπορούμε να υποφέρουμε και τη θαυμάζουμε μόνο γιατί δεν στέργει να μας καταστρέψει. (η αρχή της 1ης ελεγείας)
There's a beauty to this book beyond the words and the pacing and the images and the ecstatic frenzy. Rilke's angels seem all around after re-reading it (for the first time in years). What a joy. What delight.
Beautiful, beautiful poetry. Hard to read when disagreeing with the topics. But his words are unbelievable. I haven't stopped thinking of them, and haven't wanted to memorize poetry as much as this one in years.
Rilke is the poet's poet's poet.Keeping in mind that "a translation is a subtraction" (James Karl Lyon)Rilke in better translations is mystifying.In the German original, Rilke is mind blowing.His visions are simply transcendent.
Probably one of the best books ever written, however I like the Snow and Poulin translations a bit more!
My favorite book of poems. Dark, but beautiful.
Rilke is all of this rolled into one:
I started this back in the summer and read the first elegy, under depressing circumstances.
I ended up setting it aside until this week, when I decided to finish it.
Rilke is something you really have to be in the mood for, but when you are, his verses are absolutely lovely and utterly haunting.
I read two translations (Snow and Young), and referenced a third (Leishman).
I found that seemed to help me recapture more of the original ideas than just reading one alone, as I unfortunately do not read any German.
Looking forward to see how the same translators have dealt with the Sonnets to Orpheus.
There's nobody like Rilke. He's a gentler T.S. Eliot, just as beautiful if less intelligent, more heartfelt, more genuine.His poetry embraces the world. Nobody is larger than Rilke. The burning hot fervent prayer that is his mind is one we all need to hear, and help transmit. Get the Stephen Mitchell translation, and get goin'
It was time for a re-read of this AMAZING author and his Elegies. There is hardly a word that he has scribbled that didn't take the breath straight from my lungs. ex: "the beauty is nothing but the beginning of terror, which we still are just able to endure, and we are so awed because it serenely disdains to annihilate us."*sigh*
I had a copy of this in German with English translations that was a very beautiful gift that I lent to someone and never got back. Was it you? Rilke makes heaven feasable to a heathen and was the first non-American poet I truly loved.
Haunting, brilliant and apocalyptic they look to the future Quartets of TS Eliot, the angelic voice screaming in the wind, Rilke is masterful in the emotion & vision presented in these. Worth reading & re-reading. Wish I could read them in German!
Reading beauty.To read this on a day or a weekend all by yourself is truly inspiring.This edition has the original German and is also very beautiful to read alongside the English translation.
Reading Rilke is like listening to Jussi Bjorling sing: graceful, ethereal, the embodiment of beauty.
El eternotorrente arrastra las edades todaspor ambos reinos y, en medio de los dos,logra hacer oír sus voces.”Esta dicotomía divino-terrenal solamente puede tener cabida en nuestro corazón, ya que nuestro entendimiento no podría entenderla:“Porque nuestro corazón nos sobrepasa –como a ellos.Y ya no podemos seguirlo con la mirada hastalas aquietadoras imágenes que lo sosiegan,ni en esos cuerpos, semejantes a lo divino,donde aún más enormemente se demora y contiene.”Las bellas imágenes metafóricas de la muerte solo pueden ser así por la presencia de un mundo divino, un mundo al que podemos aspirar desde las letras de Rilke:“¿Quién mostrará a un niño tal como él es?¿Quién lo ubicará en las estrellas ypondrá en su mano la medida de la distancia?¿Y quién, en fin, podría representarsu muerte como ese oscuro pan quese endurece –o la dejará en la redondaboca, como el corazón de una bella manzana?Es fácil presentir al asesino.
“Weren’t you alwaysdistracted by expectation, as if every eventannounced a beloved? (Where can you find a placeto keep her, with all the huge strange thoughts inside yougoing and coming and often staying all night.)”Beautiful.
two thoughts, related- 1. why do people quote the bible so much? 2. why isn't this the bible??????
Sometimes things can scare the life out of us. And that life rises out of us, sees beyond and into us.Beauty is frightening, and fear is beautiful.
This book is one of the reasons I write poetry. I have part of the first elegy stenciled on my living room wall.
What is there to say? Among the very greatest poems of the 20th century and in Snow's superb translation.
Μπορεί ποτέ κανείς πραγματικά να βαθμολογήσει την ποίηση;
Şiir ve ağıt acının somut bir kavram olup kalbimizi sıkıştıran hali... Ey taşkın suların kaynağı,yiğit anaları, siz! Dar boğazlar, içinizeyürek yamaçlarından kızlar kendini atmış hepkurban diye, gelecek oğul için, yakınarak.""Çünkü bizler duydukça azalıyoruz; bizlergeçiyoruz verdiğimiz solukla; közden közehafifliyor kokumuz""Bizlerse: Seyirci, her zaman, her yerde,bizler herşeye dönük, hiç dışına çıkmadan!Ağzımıza dek doluyuz. Düzenliyoruz. Parçalanıyor.Düzenliyoruz yine, biz parçalanıyoruz."Muhteşemdi!
Good!Having read two translations of Duino Elegies by Stephen Mitchell and Edward Snow, I definitely think that Snow has the first half right while Mitchell the second half.
I still have a hard time understanding some of the elegies (3, 5, 6, 10), but the ones I think I understand really ring true and strike the right chord, so to speak, in delineating the transience of human desire.
My absolute favorites are the First, Second, and Ninth Elegy.
It's amazing poetry, and as such, it takes time to really understand it (in your own way, at least), absorb it, and make it your own.Will be reading again.
"Μακάρι κι εμείς ένα κομμάτι γης να βρίσκαμε ανθρώπινο,ένα μικρό,καθαρό,διατηρημένο,μια δική μας σπιθαμήχώμα καρποφόρο ανάμεσα στον ποταμό και στον βράχο.Γιατί η καρδιά μας η ίδια,όπως κι εκείνους,μας ξεπερνά.Και πια δε μπορούμε να τη ζητούμε σε απεικονίσεις πουτην απαλύνουν,ούτε σε σώματα θεϊκά,όπου το μέγεθοςτη μετριάζει.""Δε θα υπάρξει αγάπη μου κόσμος,μόνο εντός μας.Φεύγει η ζωή μας με μεταμορφώσεις.Κι όλο μικραίνει το έξω και χάνεται..."
Meu bom Rilke. Um tesouro que se leva pela vida fora.
I haven't read this translation and the translation that introduced me to Rilke is not available in print. If you have a chance to find a used copy translated by Gary Miranda, it is excellent and worth the effort to find.
Rilke himself claims this work is what his life was for. I will not disagree. One of the finest poetic works I have read.
