https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/97484.The_Strange_Career_of_Jim_Crow
Excellent!Did you know there was a period after the Civil War ended where blacks and whites lived together peacefully in the South?
Martin Luther spoke to a crowd in Montgomery on the 25th of March, 1965, and said the following:"Racial segregation as a way of life did not come about as a natural result of the hatred between the races immediately after the Civil War ....
Vann Woodward, in his book The Strange Career of Jim Crow, clearly points out, the segregation of the races was really a political stratagem employed by the emerging Bourbon interests in the South to keep the Southern masses divided and Southern labor the cheapest in the land."
I imagine some readers will be surprised to learn the Jim Crow was born in the North and only moved to the South years later Woodward begins his study with pre-war race relations then moves to Reconstruction, Redemption, and the repudiation of racial accommodation in the late 1800s which allowed Jim Crow and racial disenfranchisement to flourish.
Woodward explores the nuances of race relations before and after the war and into the Civil Rights era and the tension between integration and black separatism/nationalism.The first half of the book is much more informative than the second part which at points seems more of a recitation of facts than analysis.

C Vann Woodward’s The Strange Career of Jim Crow was first published in 1955.
Each new edition added a new concluding chapter in which Woodward struggled to make sense of contemporary events.
The commemorative edition I read, published in 2002, concludes with an afterword by historian and Pulitzer Prize winner William S.
The concluding chapters of the second and third editions clearly show that Woodward simply did not comprehend contemporary events well enough to present cogent analysis.Woodward’s book is best read as historiography of reconstruction.
Had to read this for a class, so didn't have as much time to invest into it as I would have liked to. Nonetheless, learned a lot I wouldn't have otherwise! Will possibly revisit this one in the future when I have more time.
I enjoyed this book because it gave a perspective of segregation you don't normally read about. I only gave the book 3 stars, and I would've given it more, but a lot of it I didn't understand. The language is advanced and at this age it's hard to understand. I think if I read it later in life I would like it and understand it more
And all along the line signals were going up to indicate that the Negro was an approved object of aggression." (64)"A search of the statute books fails to disclose any state law or city ordinance specifying separate Bibles and separate elevators.
Right here it is well to admit, and even to emphasize, that laws are not an adequate index of the extent and prevalence of segregation and discriminatory practices in the South.
It may be confidently assumed -- and it could be verified by present observation -- that there is more Jim Crowism practiced in the South than there are Jim Crow laws on the books." (87)
I don't know why I'd never heard of this book until now. A fascinating and beautifully-written history of Jim Crow segregation in the South from the end of the Civil War to the early 1970s.The most interesting part was what happened during the fifty years after the Civil War, when segregation as we know it did not yet exist and did not have to be invented. And yet it was. Why? Woodward offers an answer.
***100% my opinion on MLK***the soft tone of this book speaks of one aspect of the approach MLK took to the Civil Rights Movement, that being non-violent resistance...
the institution of the Black Codes, the South's resistance to following the rule of law by claiming "states' rights" over federal jurisdiction (when it suited their racist programs/pogroms), the formation and savagery of the KKK are all spoken of as if they are mere incidents of annoyance, not legalized examples of racism and disregard for the government...
the book speaks of too many awful things in such a diluted manner it ceases to lend strength to any aspect of civil rights besides the Southern/racist approach to denying blacks anything but death...
This book opened my eyes to the real truth about the efforts, successes, failures and back slides of the civil rights effort across the history of our Unites States.
Its tragic that the history in this volume (which was first published in 1954 and last revised in 1974) is essentially (for the most part) still ignored by those teaching civil rights history today.
The Strange Career of Jim Crow is a must read for anyone interested in social justice and civil rights.
We can use the lessons it teaches to push back against the populist rise brought on by the presidential ambitions of the current administration.
The Strange Career of Jim Crow is an absolutely classic history book that deserves to be read now, more than 60 years after its first publication. First published in 1955, the short book is a collection of lectures by Woodward which he then updated twice in the 1960sw and 1970s. But don't let the word "lecture" scare you off. This is an eye-opening history of black and white relations immediately after the civil war to the late twentieth century. It reads easily and will probably take you by surprise.
This is a seminal book that's useful for anyone to get an accurate picture of the scope of Jim crow from it's origins to how it played out until the early 70's. Of particular interest is the last few sub-chapters wherein Woodward juxtaposes the more radical voices of Rap Brown and Stokely Carmichael VS Martin Luther King Jr. I see a similar split in the political left between so-called neo-liberals like Clinton and the seemingly more progressive voices like Bernie Sanders.
This is a fascinating book. Woodward presents a clear, thoughtful argument about the emergence of Jim Crow laws. I learned a lot about the Reconstruction, then emerging Progressive period when these laws surfaced. Woodrow Wilson's position on race makes much more sense. A standard work.
Martin Luther King considered this classic book as a Bible of Civil Rights.
For a nonfiction book, that's remarkable.
The book is based on a series of lectures, given by C.
Vann Woodward, at the University of Virginia, around the time of the landmark Brown V.
At the time he lectured, I daresay he was likely threatened for airing such stark truths.
I could not read it quickly--warning, you will not be able to read parts of it without seeing the parallels to today's struggles with race in America.Civil War historians I know kept recommending this book in their talks.
Now I know why.
A short, but powerful book chronicling the rise and fall of Jim Crow society in America. Martin Luther King Jr. called it, "the historical Bible of the Civil Rights Movement." Is any other review or recommendation even necessary? Five stars.
They came from the federal courts in numerous opinions, from Northern liberals eager to conciliate the South, from Southern conservatives who had abandoned their race policy of moderation in their struggle against the Populists,from the Populists in their mood of disillusionment with their former allies, and from a national temper suddenly expressed by imperialistic adventures and aggressions against colored peoples in distant lands" and then rightly proceeds to discuss the role Booker T.
Was a great book regarding the historical context of race relations post civil war to mid to late 1960s, but I was extremely disappointed in the lack of depth, or the cursory slighted approach to the late 1960s, in particular the Black Panthers.
The Author, while extremely adept in his writing on Reconstruction and Post-Reconstruction, was apparently not as well informed, or decided not to relate in this book all that he could on the late 60s.This is of course my humble opinion, and maybe I should have read the first and/or second editions as that was clearly the author's bailiwick.
If you read one book about race and america, this should probably be it. It is short and so well done. I was asked by my law school to pick one of the most influential books I've ever read about the law to share with some law students and I picked this one. It was written long ago and it's a classic. It's an easier read than you would expect given the reputation of the writer and the name.
Another one of those mind-bending history books that makes you re-think American history.
Vann Woodward, the Strange Career of Jim Crow-------------------------------------------------------"It is perfectly true that Negroes were often coerce, defrauded, or intimidated, but they continued to vote in large numbers in most parts of the South for more than two decades after Reconstruction .
Vann Woodward, the Strange Career of Jim Crow--------------------------------------------------"The omission of the South from the annals of the progressive movement has been one of the glaring oversights of American historians.
Vann Woodward, the Strange Career of Jim Crow----------------------------------"In the decade of the Forties alone the number of Negroes living outside the South jumped from 2,360,000 to 4,600,000, an increase of nearly 100 per cent.
Martin Luther King called this book the historical Bible for the Civil Rights movement.
This book helped to shape the Civil Rights movement and the dialogues that occurred in the 1950s-1970s.That makes this book worthy of reading in and of itself.3.
The book was initially written back in 1955, at the time the subject was clearly novel.
It's been updated twice since then---largely to cover the Civil Rights movement after the initial version was published.
If Woodward's portrayal were accurate, then I'd think that other scholars (including black historians) would be championing that view louder.None of that, however, undermines the importance of this book from a historical perspective.
Hardest to deal with or explain away is Woodward's dismissive reading of the Black Power movement, and the seeming failure of Civil Rights after 1965.So why five stars.
Reading this for Dr. Ron Wood's American Culture History seminar inspired me to go to graduate school and study the early 20th century and the Populist party, and achieved the first part, but ended up studying the Civil Rights Movement.
The second half of the book is taken up with Woodward's summary of the Civil Rights Movement up til 1955, 1965, and 1973.
This is a small book and a fast and easy read; however, don't let that fool you!
Although this book may be slightly out of date because of it's age, it is still a must-read for anyone studying Jim Crow.
Jim Crow laws started in the North and was adopted in the South in the decades following Reconstruction.
Woodward even accounts for the evolving role the three main Southern political parties played in the rise of Jim Crow.
Here Woodward writes that, “racism was conceived of by some as the very foundation of Southern progressivism” (91) essentially stating that progress created the racial issues that came to a head in the 1960’s.Chapter Four, “The Man on the Cliff,” explains the growth of racism, segregation and violence after World War I, between the wars, and in World War II when the hopes of blacks for achieving first-class citizenship were pushed down violently and race riots became common.
Added chapters that attempt to deal with the aftermath of the Civil Rights Act and the unrest and nationalism that followed end up striking a paternalistic tone without adding much understanding.
That is not a reason to never write histories, because we need them, but to remember that you can't have the final word, which perhaps is for the best.What was already demonstrated before revisions - and this is an important thing, and a part of why history is important - is that there are always people working against racial harmony and economic equality and anything good.
And while they may be a minority, a complacent majority with good intentions will not be enough.That continues to be true.
The Strange Career of Jump Crow, by Comer Vann Woodward, was published in 1955 to tell the story of the Jim Crow law made during the reconstruction of 1877.
Following through his lifetime from 1908-1999, he tells the history of the racial segregation present in the South after the Civil War. Although slavery was abolished, this didn't stop the South from keeping a black man from having as much rights as a white man.
Using this as part of my project to get more of an insight to the 1900s, this book is spectacular nonfiction book to read for history keeping or learning the first hand view of arguably the most important time of the US and for black people.
Used by MLK, Jr. as a source for his work in pushing forward Civil Rights, Mr. Woodward’s work is eye-opening and helps to clarify the history of segregation in the South.
He recognizes that relations between blacks and whites were relatively harmonious for about a generation after the Civil War before the region-wise spread of Jim Crow in the last decade of the 19th century.
He also shows that the Civil Rights Movement did not begin from nothing with Brown v Board of Ed but had groundwork laid in response to the Great Depression and WWII, and ironically, globalization.A foundational read for those interested in the history of the United States.
The book starts by describing events during Reconstruction and pre Jim Crow laws of segregation.
I thought at first the author was trying to "white wash" race relations and say that things really weren't so bad after all, but as I continued reading, I saw that he was making a case for segregation starting after Reconstruction ended when many rights, particularly voting rights, were taken away from African Americans.
The book ends in the 1970s.
There are no more Jim Crow laws, but I would love to read Woodward's take on present current events if he were alive to write about them.
A thorough history of race relations in modern America. It busts many of the myths concerning the South during Reconstruction, "Redemption", and the Civil Rights era. The author, a Southerner, is well-placed to debunk the trope of the South as a racist backwater. One can't help but think that things in America might have turned out differently. History turns in many cases on a single reactionary newspaper editor, or an opportunistic demagogue.
Glad to have finished this masterpiece before the end of the year, the first year I read any James Baldwin. (And I ended up reading most of his non-fiction). A deserving classic as it confronts, challenges and obliterates many of the beliefs about reconstruction era. The 2nd edition, which I read, includes about 10 pages getting the book to 1965, which makes it an invaluable piece of history, as well as the first draft of civil rights history. Every person should read this book.
