https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/23961.Marabou_Stork_Nightmares
Irvine Welsh was the literary hero among my generation of working-class Central Belt Scots for his graphic novels set in Edinburgh sink estates, riddled with sex, drugs, violence, and written in dextrously rendered phonetic dialect.
This, Welsh’s overlooked second novel, is an interesting experiment in the old coma-patient narrative, weaving a surreal/metaphorical tale of African Marabou stork-hunting around the protagonist Roy Strang’s upbringing in Edinburgh and South Africa, and his adult life as a football thug.
A devastating gang rape forms the moral kernel of the novel and Welsh excels in particular in the scenes of tense horror and violence, and is less successful with the surreal humour.
I realize I haven't read Trainspotting, or even a great deal of Irvine Welsh's work, but let me go out on a limb here and say that this is my favorite.The characters, especially the main character, are all deliciously real.
Characteristic of Welsh, in my experience, is the atmosphere of darkness and desperation interjected with some even blacker humor.
His ability to get me to sympathize with the main character, even after I'd read the end, was pretty remarkable.
And not in the way you like Alex from A Clockwork Orange BECAUSE he's evil.And the nightmares, well...I won't say the nightmares are the best part because that would be misleading and also advocates a simplistic relationship with this book.
Stylistically this is Welsh's best work. Along with Glue it's the books of his that show him to be a really great writer who has much more up his sleeve than just drugs and violence (although he writes about these things so well, that it's not a bad thing when I say that). Why this book isn't one of those books people come in to the store looking for all the time is beyond me.
He wowed us all with his filthy funny tales of Scottish smackheads in Trainspotting, one of the ALL time black comedies, they don't come any blacker or funnier, and then it was kind of - follow that.
So this one does involve similar young Scottish druggies, but it has a plot, which emerges in a similar manner to the spring in Monty Python's Spring Surprise from the Crunchy Frog sketch :Health inspector: What's this one, 'spring surprise'?
When you pop it in your mouth steel bolts spring out and plunge straight through-both cheeks.
Health inspector: Well where's the pleasure in that?
So Marabou Stork Nightmares is recommended for those who like their fiction to pierce both cheeks.
It’s about a coma patient who calls everyone a cunt as he’s chasing a big stork through South Africa.
In many ways, this book was brilliant: the structure of flitting between his coma state, memories of his childhood, and an African hunting fantasy.
Also, the way he physically structures words on the page really conveys the polyphonic stream of consciousness of a person in a coma.
I mean, sometimes you can't even come up for air, and women are never referred to in anything approaching a humanizing way, always instead as crass sexual objects.
Rape, torture, incest, animal torture, sexual abuse, physical abuse, meaningless sex--it's all in here.
Need to read again soon
I think my own books are probably mostly influenced by King and Koontz (in a non-horror way), but if ever I need to justify the dialect (in Boys of Summer) or the graphic nature (in Girl Afraid), I turn to Irvine or to Chuck.
Equally though, there is a skill in being able to show it all, and not come off reading like a hack.Some of the worst self-published books out there are a product of No Editor, No Regulation, and, as well as the awful prose, their biggest flaws often involve an inability to tone down the unpalatable.
It's a skill Welsh has, and I envy it.Will you like this book?
Essa si estrinseca qui in comportamenti di crescente brutalità, verbale e materiale, verso i deboli (donne, bambini, animali) fino a ritorcersi contro gli autori stessi della violenza, con l'entrata in gioco di un elemento ancor più crudele e sarcastico di loro: il destino...Ed è nella fantasia che i meno bestiali di questi scoppiati edinburghesi, come il protagonista di Tolleranza Zero, cercano di fuggire dalla realtà immergendosi negli strati più profondi della propria coscienza ma imbattendosi in sogni che presto diventano incubi, concretizzati dalla demoniaca figura del marabù vera rappresentazione dell'ineluttabilità del male.
Blown.The angle of this story is incredible to begin with; a coma patient tell his story.Sometimes, he (Roy) slipps close to the surface and hears conversations or music around him, a level below that he recounts actual memories from his life, and even deeper, he hunts the metaphorical stork with his friend and companion, footballer Sandy Jameison.
A lot of what Roy recounts from his childhood is sad and pathetic, while much of his adulthood memories are disgusting and violent.
It's that sort of book.If you're not afraid of violent cursing as well as the aforementioned themes, then go ahead and read this fantastic book.
Harsh, inventive, horrifying, and desperately sad. Lacks the glorious sprawl of Trainspotting, which directly preceded it, opting instead for what may be Welsh's most tightly-coiled plotting to date. And his greatest sense of conscience, his strongest turn as a social reformer. The ending, through an appropriate scrim of sensationalism, actually manages to be both heart-rending and insightful, in a manner that Welsh rarely manages.
Still think this is his best book.
This book left me freaked out for weeks. It's told from the perspective of someone in a coma, drifting in and out of three levels of awareness: nearly aware of his real surroundings; remembering the events of his life that led him to be in this coma; and in a surreal fantasy African safari. Very well written, easy to follow despite the narrative tricks, and with a narrator that will draw you in somewhat against your will.
I was always drunk on stolen Vodka when I read this, so my appraisal would not necessarily be reliable....Or maybe it would be much more so than normal.
3.5 *Roy Strang narrates this story from the hospital in which he is lying in a coma.
It begins in South Africa, where he and his friend Sandy Jamieson are hunting the environmental havoc-wreaking, scavenger/predator marabou stork.
The account soon shifts to Roy’s working-class upbringing in Scotland and South Africa; an upbringing marred by a dysfunctional family and abuse.
We follow Roy through to early adulthood.
Along the way are escapades, brutality, bullying, girls, drinking, bird watching, ‘fitba’ violence and a horrific crime that will have far-reaching ramifications.This is an inventive book, boasting parallel stories and different levels of awareness.
Marabou Stork Nightmares is far from Irvine Welsh’s best.
The world we live in is not run by cuddly, strong bears, graceful sleek cats or loyal, friendly dogs.
Marabou Storks run this place, and they are known as nasty bastards."Roy Strang, coma patient, casually cashie, and half-hearted psychopath divides his time in-coma between fuddling over his shitty, shitty life and hunting the dreaded title bird in homoerotic Africa.
The structure is fun and playful, as the very-aware Strang battles against what he can hear from the real world outside him by delving deeper into his hunt for the Stork.Probably not for the faint-hearted or easily-offended, but a ballsy harrowing into one radge's hell.
My first time through this book I thought Irvine Welsh had completely reinvented himself.
It doesn't take long for Welsh to slip into his familiar role of Edinburgh scheme documentarian, a role of which he is the master.The reader travels between Roy Strang's African dreamland and his memory of growing up in the toughest part of Edinburgh.
Gradually, you realize that the African element of the novel is the least important to informing the characters in this book.
At times you almost forget that Roy lies comatose in a hospital, but you will remember the images Welsh puts into your mind.
Irvine Welsh is sometimes hard for me to read; his characters are the kind of people you know exist in the world, but you wish they didn't.
There are no heroes (well, sometimes there's an antihero), and the protagonist is usually the character you come to hate the most.
That being said, however, his books are always powerful, always disturbing, and always very well written.
If you can't handle gratuitous violence, these are not the books for you.
If you sometimes like a book that makes you want to scream and laugh at the same time, you might like these.
I still haven't read Trainspotting, although I enjoyed the movie...
Possibly the most disturbing book I have ever read. After I finished the last page I felt like I had been run over by a truck.
the usual stomach-churning stuff, compelling as ever, and love the style it's written in but not one of my favourites.
Recomendación de un amigo como su libro favorito, la verdad es que cuando recién comencé a leerlo, no conectaba con el personaje (fue muy poco lo que duré así)... Lo que más me ha gustado son los recursos que utiliza Welsh, para mostrar los planos de lo que pasa en "la realidad" y lo que está pensando el personaje principal. Además, tomar nota, no todo el libro son párrafos seguidos.
Considering that he’s already ‘alternative‘, and well away from what most people think of as a mainstream writer, you can see why that means this might be difficult to read, although it’s worth soldiering on and it’s not too different from some of the other experimental stuff that I’ve seen, but then I seek it out.This is a pretty good book to start out with if you’re new to Welsh’s work, but I wouldn’t say that it’s exactly representative – it’s just different, and that’s what makes it worth recommending.
There is nothing to like about Roy Strang or his family, or his friends, or his world of mindless and casual violence.But as Roy's story forces its way through the grotesque nightmares - themselves repulsive - based around a hatred of the marabou stork, you realise that the nightmares are a shield against the unpleasantness of his current predicament and his even worse and more frightening memories.
Memories that led to desperation even in someone as callous as Roy.I guess the reputation of Irvine Welsh should have warned me!The book is imaginatively told in its unsettling typesetting and in the erratic way the story unfolds.
A masterpiece of style and characterization, Maribou Stork Nightmares is rife with poignant themes which are extremely relevant today, and perhaps will always be.
Welsh has simultaneously written in a way that is blatant with its symbolism, but layered to make the text enjoyable and accessible to readers of all levels.
The reader is force to empathize with and understand Roy while simultaneously jerked through his split mind and experiences, including his own gut wrenching acts, which challenges concepts of morality and humanity.A nightmare in itself, reflecting the most savage aspects of humanity, Maribou Stork Nightmares is a must read.
The story consists of Roy Strang, an oddball who's obsessed with birds, with the exception of Marabou Storks and invade his dreams.As Roy is growing up he encounters the usual trials, bullying, going out with girls, doing drugs etc.
However his problems start when he devises a brutal form of revenge on the snobbiest girl at school.
Early Welsh could do no wrong and with this book the scene shifts from the present day, Roy's disturbing past (spoiler: a dog dies a brutal death) and a meta-narrative of Roy hunting a stork in South Africa.
Marabou Stork Nightmares display Welsh's themes at their best: Violence, Social commentary and Drugs.
It's incredibly raw, brutal and disturbing, the characters are all horribly real people, all of whom you know in real life, but wish you didn't.It's told from the perspective of Roy Strang - a man in a coma, and flits between his hallucinations of a life in South Africa hunting Marabou Storks, what's happening around him in hospital, and his memories of his life.
It's wonderfully executed using a non-traditional format, such as changes in typeface, to make you feel that you're drifting in and out of awareness of different worlds with Roy. These layers kept me incredibly engaged and continually intrigued throughout the entire novel.It's definitely not a book for the faint of heart.
Its a difficult book to explain without giving the game away too much or making it sound a bit more superficial than I think it actually is.So, we have an instantly dislikeable narrator who is telling his story from a hospital bed whilst in a coma.
Are people who do bad things simply making a choice to be evil or is there more to it than that in which case who's fault is it?I liked it.
I'm not a huge fan of other Irvine Welsh novels so if like me, you'd given up on Porno and Trainspotting, don't give up on Irvine Welsh altogether and give this one a go.
If you're a fan of Welsh's work, you know what you're getting yourself into.
If you like his books I will definitely say this is one of my favorites of his.
This is a dark and pretty disturbing book.
Entertaining plot, but dark nonetheless.
Well written, solid characters (the despair of the main character has you feeling for him despite the heinous things he does throughout the book), very creative and compelling plot, and even has its share of (dark) humour.
I really like Welsh's work, but it's a bit too dark for me.
Foi o único dele que li e não tinha nenhum traço de humor só tragédia atrás de tragédia.Estrutura do texto e diagramação impecáveis que seriam utilizadas novamente no Filth, narrativa não-linear misturando as três tramas (paciente em coma que não quer acordar contando sua história, o pesadelo que dá título ao livro e os acontecimentos às cegas no quarto que está internado); personagens detestáveis em rota de colisão num mundo onde não existe esperança, não existe segundas chances.
Um livro que só te causa dor por 200 páginas e fecha com um dos melhores finais que já li.
More disturbing than "Crime" (never thought I'd be able to say that) and (by the end) more contemptible than "Filth".
Roy Strang's in a coma and he doesn't want to come out of it which begs the question "what's the cunt hiding from?" It's hard getting a straight answer out of the soccer hooligan/system analyst/sociopath but he tells a good story.
I'll be honest, the continuing image of the marabou stork eating the flamingo's head leads to a disgusting last two pages but I don't have any more difficulty empathizing with Roy than I do with DS Bruce Robertson.
Yes, it's ultraviolent, disturbing and more than a tad brilliant...typical Welsh.
