https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/777824.Parade_s_End
The feeling passes, but it is no accident: part of Ford's argument is that the First World War spelled the end not just for a generation of young men but for a whole mindset, a way of behaving and of being English, that is now utterly gone and cannot be recovered.
This comes back (as all things do in Parade's End) to the war, which for Sylvia is – an astonishing word to use – an ‘agapemone’, or zone of free-love.
Another example is how much more sympathetic he is to the character of Sylvia than Ford was.
Had he continued with this irksome puritanical stance he deployed in The Kreutzer Sonata it’s likely Anna Karenina would have been a dud as a novel.
She’s the villain, the harbinger of everything Ford doesn’t like about the new world (dis)order.
Somehow and brilliantly, Stoppard alchemized Sylvia into the most credible and admirable character in the book though I’m not sure Ford would have approved of this outcome.
It’s like Ford had just read Freud and believed obsessively but without much clarity that he was on to something.
I decided to start reading this great First World War novel after seeing the start of the BBC adaptation, but then became caught up by the book and fell behind with watching the TV version.
It's a hard book to describe, the tale of an upper-class English family falling apart in and around the war.
In particular, it is the tale of the 'Last Tory', Christopher Tietjens, the two women in his life, wife Sylvia and true love Valentine, and his struggle to stay true to his stubborn traditions as the world changes around him.The writing is demanding, largely told in stream-of-consciousness style and jumping to and fro.
This is a wonderfully rewarding read, although at times the story seems impenetrable, but stay with it as the book will become a personal favourite, that repays frequent revisits.The beguiling, irresistible and utterly compelling, Sylvia Tietjens is described, ' immensely tall, slight… reddish, very fair hair in great bandeaux right over her ears.
Her very oval, regular face had an expression of virginal lack of interest such as used to be worn by fashionable Paris courtesans a decade before that time.”A beautiful, sensual woman.Sylvia has enjoyed a colourful past and learned the hard way that surrendering to impulse is damaging and disastrous, and knows through bitter experience the yearning of flaming passion and desire, 'that dreadful feeling' that always leads to awkwardness and unexpected repercussions.
Men might stand up on hill, but the mental torture could not be expelled." Reading Parade’s End, I learned two things about WWI that were completely new to me – one was how emotionally disturbing, distracting it was for soldiers to keep contact with their family, lawyers, keep track of their affairs during wartime thanks to improved comunication.It's that they won't let us alone.
It is Christopher's and Valerie's sense of responsibility which makes the main love scene of the novel look like this:We never finished a sentence.
I started to worry that maybe something is now wrong with my brain after reading too much and playing chess too much, so I checked some of the reviews and see several praising the novel without even reading all four books, like they tasted one dish in a food buffet and announced all the rest as outstanding (really?
So if he's alive, in front of me, I may be yelling right now to him, asking him to answer the question if he had actually finished reading all four books and not if the novel is great as I am not asking him that question.
The time shifts are initially confusing, but when one lets yourself go (I think the confusion the reader feels is intended, it mimics the confusion the characters feel), one discovers great comic moments (the breakfast scene at the Duchemins in particular), a beautiful love story and a very sympathetic hero of the stiff upper lip variety, and one of the most despicable yet fascinating characters you're likely to encounter in literature.
But it's in my mind easily the strongest of the four books--most comic and best use of modernist techniques, namely the time shift (which Ford coined).
Not an easy novel to read not by any means.
An interesting character in his own right although quite overshadowed by his manipulative and spoilt wife Sylvia.
Found that the novel did lag in places however the descriptions of life in the trenches and the physical and psychological impact of the Great War to be compulsive reading.
The characters were constrained and at times understated but that did add to their power on the page.
One of those novels that you find yourself thinking about after the last page is turned.
[In those days, before kids and domestic distractions, I created, as I continue to do, my own courses of study, but, of course, had much more time to concentrate and ruminate.:] Finally, one day dark winter day in my little studio on Cathedral Hill in St. Paul I picked up the big book and began to read.Parades End has been called the last Victorian novel.
His wife is unfaithful to him, he is betrayed by friends and colleagues, and the modern, post-war world is changing everything he once thought he knew.Those who have read The Good Soldier will recognize some familiar themes, but in Parade’ End will enjoy Ford at his most expansive.
It had been so difficult for me to read, in fact, that I found myself trying to skim, and resisting, just barely.I suppose part of the problem must have been the unmatched expectations I've had for this humongous doorstopper.
Since I never really encountered an opinion of Tietjens - not to mention a deed - that was immorally appalling, I had a hard time seeing Sylvia do what she was doing for any reason other than the author's strings, pulling at her.The prose is abstruse and difficult to read.
تاريخ القراءة الأصلي : 1999
When it was time to finish the last section of this brilliant book, I bought myself a bottle of sparkling cava to celebrate and cried like a baby.And by 'end', I mean the end of A MAN COULD STAND UP (a phrase which now makes me shout 'ON A BLEEDIN' 'ILL!!!' and then cry)...I took a few more weeks to decide whether or not to read "Last Post".
their narrative could so happily end then as we all cry together as the clouds part (it's kinda like when someone smiles for the first time 2 hours into a Kaurismaki movie).
At first Parade’s End was published as a trilogy, excluding the last novel, but Ford later included all four, some critics having subsequently claimed that the final volume is weak whereas others have seen it as integral to and perfectly capping the whole.The plot covers the period from just before, during, and immediately after WW I.
It’s main protagonist is Christopher Tietjens, a brilliant and wealthy government statistician who views himself as “the last Tory,” living a century or two after his ideal time.
Frequent allusions within and beyond the novel itself are carefully integrated into the narrative.
Instead of the sweeping narrative of the typical war novel, FMF takes his story completely inside the characters' heads, looking at society and war in the microcosm, an approach that must be respected.
At all times, the story is narrated through the inner thoughts, relevant or irrelevant, of the 3 main characters.
At the same time, there were many times in the miniseries when I thought, 'I sure am glad I read the book and know everything that was meant by that 15-second scene'.
And revisiting the scenes & characters from the book was like finding valued old friends.
Having loved the BBC production, with Benedict Cumberbatch as protagonist Christopher Tietjens, I wanted to read the novel in order to fill in the gaps and details that I felt I might not have grasped.
My typical response, after watching a film adapted from a novel, is to want to read the novel.) After spending much of January 2014 slogging through this book -- and SLOG it was, despite many wonderful moments and bits of writing -- I realised two things: Tom Stoppard and Benedict Cumberbatch are both geniuses.
The author evokes the emotions of his characters with unique brilliance, using a stream of conscious style of writing to describe inner dialogue, so that we feel exactly what each character feels, especially at moments of great stress.
The scene where Christopher Tietjens (the hero) and Valentine Wannop fall in love whilst riding a horse and cart all night through thick fog was so real for me I wished I could actually be in it.I wish I could write like Ford Madox Ford.

Quite the most singular book I've ever read. Modern. Post-modern. Pre-modern. So many times I had absolutely no clue as to what was going on and yet I stuck with it for over 800 pages. Now I see where Graham Greene came from. A masterpiece; an infuriating masterpiece.

Well, the end of the show was to be: the adjutant would stand the battalion at ease; the band would play Land of Hope and Glory, and then the adjutant would say: There will be no more parades….
This novel reminds me of other great chronicles of individual lives and war, in this case a chronicle of the life of Christopher Tietjens, "the last Tory," a brilliant government statistician from a wealthy land-owning family who is serving in the British Army during World War I.
In a narrative beginning before the war and ending after the armistice, Ford's project is to situate an unimaginable cataclysm within a social, moral and psychological complexity.
A brilliant, sprawling book, unusually combining inventive modernist prose with a mingled nostalgia and hopefulness. I'm still processing what I think of it, but it's an eloquent and poignant exploration of the anxieties of England's gentry, and the genteel poor, in the years surrounding the First World War.
Ford does a great job of giving these characters a voice - I particularly enjoyed reading the chapters from Sylvia's perspective.
I became VERY emotionally invested in Tietjen's and Valentine's relationship (not something I expected to happen when I picked up this book!) and the ending of the third book was one of the most satisfying endings I've ever had the pleasure of reading.
You spend the majority of the book reading the inner monologues of characters who were never all that important to story originally, and find yourself wondering why the hell Ford is doing this to you when all you want to know is what happens to Groby and Tietjens' little boy and Valentine.
Ultimately, it seems to be all about gossip and a few decent people who allow their lives to be ruined because they are too high-minded to argue against it.As a librarian, I try to follow the Nancy Pearl rule of reading at least fifty pages of any book before giving up.
(Anyone over 50 is permitted to subtract a page for every year) The idea is that life is too short and there are too many books to waste time reading bad ones.
(view spoiler)[Bettie's Books (hide spoiler)]
So I didn't know that I didn't know about his quartet of novels, Parade's End, until I was browsing used books in Flyleaf Books in Chapel Hill and came upon all 900 pages of four novels published separately but ultimately bound together into one huge, wonderful, idiosyncratic novel about Christopher Tietjens, his stiff sibling, Mark, his vicious wife, Sylvia, and his ultimate true love, Valentine...not to mention the multitude of characters that must, perforce, populate a novel that extends through pre-WWI upper-class British life, WWI in the trenches, and post-WWI British decay.This is a cheeky, satirical, witty, comical novel that serves as a kind of hinge between the Victorians and the Modernists.
Or about the backstories of unimportant minor characters, extensively explained on countless pages, yet serving no purpose to the story whatsoever?Due to many time leaps within one chapter (which I thought had a very inconvenient lenght, by the way) it was easy to lose track of which character was narrating the chapter in the first place.
Still there were certain things in the book I enjoyed, most of it being character developement or details I actually did care about because I thought they were interesting and I could relate to them.
Absolutely exhausting.... And in all honesty, I could have done without the 4th and final book. I absolutely loved Ford Madox Ford's "The Good Soldier," & if "Parade's End" were condensed into 500 pages, I may have loved it as well. However, the tetralogy (as it stands) is just WAY TOO LONG. *2/5 stars*
I loved the relationship between Christopher Tietjens and Valentine Wannop; though politically at odds, they are intellectually and emotionally aligned, a team of two surrounded by violence and superficiality.
General Campion has to be THE most irritating person in the novel — Christopher's naive godfather who is obsessed with and deeply emotionally invested in all of the gossip surrounding Christopher, even as bombs explode around them.
Technically I haven't finished it yet since we only had to read three of the four books for my class, but I will complete The Last Post soon.Parade's End follows the singular Christopher Tietjens and his experiences of World War I.
Believe me, I am normally a big fan of the happy ending (Harry Potter Epilogue anyone?), but I found this unnecessary.Quotes: "You seduced a young woman in order to be able to finish your talks with her.
El final del desfile es la historia de un matrimonio que se mantiene solo por las apariencias.
EL marido soporta todos los maltratos e insultos para que su supuesto hijo y futuro heredero de una gran propiedad no tenga que soportar el descrédito de sus semejantes.
A partir de ahí la guerra real que se libra en las trincheras del Continente son casi una broma frente a los agravios, mentiras y perrerías varias que vuelca sobre su marido.En realidad son dos historias relatadas a través de cuatro novelas.
