https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/24835.The_Sot_Weed_Factor
The sheer life force of this novel is amazing, the prose is masterful and wickedly funny, and the journey is like nothing I've ever been on before.
Here's the opening line:"In the last years of the Seventeenth Century there was to be found among the fops and fools of the London coffee-houses one rangy, gangling flitch called Ebenezer Cooke, more ambitious than talented, and yet more talented than prudent, who, like his friends-in-folly, all of whom were supposed to be educating at Oxford or Cambridge, had found the sound of Mother English more fun to game with than her sense to labor over, and so rather than applying himself to the pains of scholarship, had learned the knack of versifying, and ground out quires of couplets after the fashion of the day, afroth with Joves and Jupiters, aclang with jarring rhymes, and string-taut with similes stretched to the snapping-point."
Luego de nueve días y más de 1200 páginas puedo decir con total seguridad que El plantador de tabaco es una obra maestra.
Una historia declamada por decenas de personajes variopintos que entran en escena para luego salir y volver a entrar cientos de páginas después, piratas, esclavos, indios, personajes históricos como Charles Calvert, Francis Nicholson o el mismo Ebenezer Cooke y múltiples relatos dentro de relatos.
Cuando el libro comienza a lentificarse, saca una sorpresa debajo de la manga que propulsa la historia por unos cuantos capítulos que hacen del proceso de lectura un viaje de lo más adictivo.
It was a real treat because I've been fascinated by Escher's work since I first saw his ‘Hand Drawing Itself’ (view spoiler)[ (hide spoiler)] and some of his other drawing puzzles when I was a teenager.
This is easier when we understand the preposterous parallels of his graphic language, the way he suggests the spatial in the flat and the flat in the spatial.(view spoiler)[ (hide spoiler)]The works that most clearly demonstrate his storytelling ability are his series of Metamorphoses.
(view spoiler)[ (hide spoiler)]At this point you are probably thinking that I’ve mistaken the page and instead of this being a review of John Barth's The Sot-Weed Factor, it is instead a review of The Magic of M.C. Escher.
Well-loved books from my pastRating: 5 golden stars of five, with a rapturous yodel cluster The Publisher Says: Considered by critics to be Barth's most distinguished masterpiece, The Sot-Weed Factor has acquired the status of a modern classic.
John Barth, my Real Self murmured, John Barth of The Floating Opera and this book which you adored thirty years ago, he deserves better than this, to which Angry Self replied, “Shut up you!
I read the first six chapters and tossed the book aside!
On one level Barth is a serious storyteller, but he pushes his writing to the outer limits of the sensible - as in this delightful chapter heading, "The Poet Wonders Whether the Course of Human History Is a Progress, a Drama, a Retrogression, a Cycle, an Undulation, a Vortex, a Right- or Left-Handed Spiral, a Mere Continuum, or What Have You. Certain Evidence Is Brought Forward, but of an Ambiguous and Inconclusive Nature." If you read this book with a straight face it's very satisfying - but a silly grin with occasional laughter works too.Ah, except for poor Joan Toast.It's like this song - you can laugh...or just go with it.There are stories within stories, characters within characters, plots within plots.
When we heap obloquy on Satan, is't not ourselves we scold, for that we secretly admire his Heavenly insurrection?I knew naught of John Barth till I read this.
(hide spoiler)]Barth gets that, and he portrays it brilliantly through the language of that time.
I speak generally about the atrocities Barth heaps on every woman character, even as he writes them strong and wise and generous; and I speak specifically about The Rite of Holy Eggplant, which was as juvenile as it was implausible.No man is what or whom I take him for, says our protagonist.
Midway through my life, I briefly doubted the virtue of length and maximalism, arguing that, if a writer had 900 pages in them, then why couldn't they split them into three discrete works?This experience has persuaded me that, at least in Barth's case, I should trust the author's assessment of appropriate length:"The tale is no marvel of brevity...yet it must be told."In this tale, Barth immerses us, sometimes over our heads, in both a world and a worldview, and it's a delightenment.There were times when the pace of the novel seemed to slow, and I wondered why there were still hundreds of pages to go.
His problem is that he finds every path in life equally appealing and cannot decide between them.In the book's opening paragraph, Barth describes Ebenezer thus:"IN THE LAST YEARS OF THE SEVENTEENTH CENTURY THERE WAS TO BE found among the fops and fools of the London coffee-houses one rangy, gangling flitch called Ebenezer Cooke, more ambitious than talented, and yet more talented than prudent, who, like his friends-in-folly, all of whom were supposed to be educating at Oxford or Cambridge, had found the sound of Mother English more fun to game with than her sense to labor over, and so rather than applying himself to the pains of scholarship, had learned the knack of versifying, and ground out quires of couplets after the fashion of the day, afroth with Joves and Jupiters, aclang with jarring rhymes, and string-taut with similes stretched to the snapping-point"Ebenezer gets a surprise visit in his Cambridge rooms from his former tutor, Henry Burlingame.
El veredicto es claro: 3 de cada 4 lectores de Goodreads piensa que la novela es una obra maestra o está muy cerca de serlo.
Es una novela muy cervantina, con su Sancho codicioso de su ínsula Barataria y siempre preocupado por su amo...
Todas esas historias estás llenas de grandes y pequeñas barbaridades, de crueldades, de estupideces, algunas incluso bienintencionadas, de todas esas acciones de las que somos capaces los humanos, de nuestra esencia como especie, de la eterna disputa Rousseau / Hobbes, hombre salvaje / hombre civilizado.
If it were a film I'd expect the sound bites to read something like "The thrill ride of the summer!" and "I laughed until I cried!" Reviews all over the internet suggest it is a book to be loved.
I don't feel like writing reviews of Tristam Shandy or any of the J.P. Donleavy books.
I liked that Joan could live as herself and like sex anyway, even as Ebeneezer hearing the story of the rape by trickery from her uncle (after her first bleeding) tells her that she should feel the horror and shame.
I dislike the particular style the book parodies and resembles, and found the plot and characters to be overtly silly, the adventures unbelievable.
By the end I was cheering for poor Ebenezer, and hoping for neat and satisfying conclusion to his misadventures.
I ended up enjoying The Sot-Weed Factor despite myself, but was left with the feeling that the enjoyment was mostly superficial.
In this regard I think the novel is limited by its adherence to Seventeenth Century literary styles, which though charming in themselves, are perhaps not as nuanced or flexible as modern ones.
For me, The Sot-Weed Factor was wonderfully constructed fun, if somewhat frivolous.
This book is kind of nuts.In a good, hilarious way, I mean."I am Ebenzer Cooke, Poet and Laureate of this province.""Well, I was once called the Traveling Whore o' Dorset, but I don't boast of't." Ebenzer Cooke has been waving his title in everyone's faces.
Maryland is infested with poet laureates called Ebenzer Cooke.
Some even care to drop a nugget of wisdom or two.“Only the wittol can know he is no cuckold and only a dead man is safe from death.”Some of the stories being told are incredible enough to find a place in 'Ripley's Believe it or Not'.
The Sot-Weed Factor works big time because herein Barth's many obsessions find complete synergy—a Marylandiad to his beloved Maryland & Chesapeake Bay/ Choptank River area (Barth's "native turf, or bog"), his love of the sea leading to full-on mad pirate capers, a fondness for Epic tales/Episodic novels leading to story upon story upon story in a glorious, pitch-perfect 17th century prose.
Barth narratively demonstrates the ideas expressed herein: how do you prove your identity when so many versions of your self are parading about!Chapter 6: Burlingame's Tale Carried Yet Farther; the Laureate Reads from The Privie Journall of Sir Henry Burlingame and Discourses on the Nature of Innocence.: a delight from beginning to end, written in Elizabethan English, a fictional account of Captain John Smith's iconic meeting with Powhatan.
Our national currency shall be poetry, and ALL of the elected officials shall be elected through eating contests, (Kobaysahi shall reign forever!) Our day of national celebration will be every May 27, in honor of the terrific, witty writer, John Simmons Barth.This was an amazing read, and told as a bildungsroman story.
It is a funny read, and it is full of love, honor, hate, deception, REBELLION, pirates, kidnapping, opium, Indians, sot-weed(my pipe smoking increased significantly with this read), hell, its full of life.
EVERYONE WILL READ THIS ONCE THE REBELLION IS OVER!
Local man rewrites Maryland history.'Dsheart, b' Truth, but I do believe that the gentleman known as John Barth Esquire was surely bit in the arse by Clio herself, which Fine Lady curst him with such a fever and ague and ashivering that could ne'er be shaken off, but only worked up and out, out into a tale the size of an Ocean and Beyond, encompassing a whole World, nay a Galaxy, nay a Cosmos no less, of the Incautious, the Devious, the Opportune, the Cockamamy, the Resourceful, the Shameless, the Salvage, the Exalted, the Craven, the Duplicitous and e'en, rare though 'tis, the Prudent.
Health Warning!This novel is nothing like Sorrentino’s 1983 novel Blue Pastoral.
The Sot-Weed Factor is a faithful homage to the picaresque novel à la Henry Fielding or Tobias Smollett, it is not like the extended homage to the Oxen of the Sun section of Ulysses that comprises Sorrentino’s patchy 1983 novel Blue Pastoral.
We would like to apologise for this misunderstanding and reassure the reader The Sot-Weed Factor can be read exclusively on its own merits, not merely as a false comparison point with a lesser novel published in 1983 by Sorrentino entitled Blue Pastoral.
This true American masterpiece is written like a 17th century literary novel.
When a novelist can write as well as peers like Saul Bellow or V.S. Naipaul, then a maximalist style like Barth's is to be savoured.
You have to marvel at the construction of such credible characters as Joan Toast, Bertrand, Boabdil, Andrew, Pocahontas and the pirate captain.
Barth's dialogue on various letters of the alphabet, the trading of ancient insults and the scene where Ebenezer fears drowning in Chesapeake Bay were uproariously funny.
For any true lover of great American literary novels, The Sotweed Factor should be on your must-read list.
One of the best books I've ever read. I'll need a while to think about it before trying to articulate my thoughts. I'll just say that it was much better than I could ever have hoped, and I think it's required reading for anyone at all into long, postmodern novels.
A prospective reader asks about the kind of humor it contains and whether it suffers from an ailment of early (1960) postmodern literature from being "bizarre to the point of fantasy." A definite "no" to that.This is the story of a new English immigrant, Ebenezer Cooke, who has become a tobacco merchant (aka sot-weed factor) in colonial Maryland at the beginning of the 19th century.
The man is delusional enough to aspire to writing a heroic poem about the presumed noble virtues of the colony (a real Cook did so, but nothing is know of him).
I don't know why it didn't make the 1001 Books You Should Read list.
Poesy/Prosey perfection. More fun than a barrel-full 'o brandy, and saucier than the Traveling Whore 'O Dorset on a particularly randy morn.
The Sot-Weed Factor - http://ow.ly/y2ByS Era ciertamente un espectáculo de lo más insólito: más flaco aún que de costumbre debido al rigor de los meses que había pasado embarcado, Ebenezer avanzaba por la carretera de troncos dando zancadas como una cigüeña con las plumas erizadas.
Añádase a esto que estaba más quemado por el sol que los plantadores y, por lo menos, igual de sucio, que era la viva estampa del descastado y que su apresuramiento resultaba aún más grotesco debido al modo en que llevaba los brazos cruzados por delante de la pechera de la camisa, donde aún llevaba las arrugadas páginas del diario.… Epopeya monumental, parodia temeraria y procaz de la novela dieciochesca, John Barth afronta un reto de inverosimilitudes y acoplamientos de realidades que se alargan y ramifican hasta la extenuación.
One part revival of the so-called "anatomy novel" (big, rambling books without much by way of plot); part all-important postmodern tome; part study on topics such as identity, loyalty, naivete, colonialism and art; part experiment with seventeenth-century English (which gets a lot easier to read once you've sunk into the book); part metafictional hall-of-mirrors; part rip-roaring adventure story; part bildingsroman and one hundred percent ribald joke to rival Portnoy's Complaint. Gravity's Rainbow is the most intellectually dazzling entry in the postmodern canon and Infinite Jest is the most emotionally affecting, but this is the most fun.
This book is getting away from me, kind of like things in my life at the moment.
At bars I tell other drinkers, the serious and casual alike about books, I met women, go on dates, talk more about books then I do myself.
I got this reading thing pretty bad, but I think it’s good for me.
I’m just rambling, been single longer then I’d like to admit, it could be one reason why I read so much.
What does this have to do with “The Sot-Weed Factor” not much, but just like Ebenezer Cooke, I’m torturing myself over women, escaping in literature, not knowing who the people I come across really are.
Joel bought me something several years ago for xmas. I already owned it. He kept that copy and asked, teeth gritted, what I wanted. I suggested this and read it over the holidays, particularly one hungover party at my parents'. Punning and ribald, it must be situated just below Pynchon, specifically Mason and Dixon. It is disquieting how polarizing otherwise literate people are concerning Mason and Dixon. One should read the Sot-Weed Factor if at all concerned with the undulating comic possibilities of the Pox.
My third or fourth read of this -- I’m not sure, but really, who the hell can keep track of things like that anymore? The important thing is, I still  dearly  love this book, it’s still sheer pleasure, a perfect delight, from page 1 to page 756. (OK,there was a tiny span where Lord Baltimore is talking about Maryland's history that got a bit boring, a handful of pages, but other than that, perfect. Really.)
The characters are many, but primarily Ebenezer Cooke, his twin sister, Anna, and Henry Burlingame, a complex man of many guises.The dialogue alone I would award 5 stars--formal, yet hysterically funny, insightful, and often bawdy--I admit to having dialogue envy.This is a long novel, about 500K words, so it easily suits lots of themes:The existentialist notions of action, choice, and value.The lawlessness of early America with its connection to European political conspiracies complicated by a disregard for morality juxtaposition with desires for upper class wealth and prestige.Coming of age and the development of a coherent sense of self.Sex and society.
Θα μπορούσε να υψώσει ανάστημα απέναντι στον Οδυσσέα του Τζους.
Dos, los personajes, este es el primer párrafo y asistimos a la presentación, cuál Quijote, de este poeta “de pelo y ojos claros, huesudo, los pómulos hundidos” “hombre garza, de patas flacas y pico largo, caminaba y se sentaba con pose descoyuntada; su porte mismo era una sorpresa angulosa, cada uno de sus gestos, una semiagitación.”El triángulo de protagonistas que forma junto con Henry Burlingame (que en algún momento llegué a identificar con Sancho Panza) y la hermana del poeta, Anna, llevan el peso de buena parte de la obra y son parte de su encanto; sin perder de vista al criado traidor, Bertrand, que le pone en más de una situación comprometida y a Joan Toast, una suerte de Dulcinea grotescamente desahuciada, a la que ama sin reparo:“-¡Y vos sabed que os amo por ser mi salvadora y mi inspiración!
This thoroughly enthralling tale set mostly in the British colony of 17th century Maryland - a telling of fledgling willy-nilly poet Laureate of same and his "Marylaniad" one Ebeneezer Cooke who with his vast cast of characters (some who often as not act impersonator to EC) including his twin sister and a blithering plot of vicissitude and philosophical turnabout would mystify a Merlin.
These characters suffered their comedies and joyed in their misery.
The book soared at reading a hundred pages a day 'twas masterful Mesmer for its carpet riding beholder.
Fun forsooth ye swiving would-be rascal rousers read it and be carried away.
