https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/21416690-the-invisible-library
Now, I'm ready for the book 2.******Dear Invisible Library,Are you guys hiring?I saw your book and I was highly interested in the position of a junior librarian.
An immortal librarian whose loyalty to the Library is note worthy?
I should tell you though, I'm not as awesome as Kai, who is a  dragon shifter.
But I'm awesome if we're talking about how fast can I read a book, or how fast can I change from a timid lady to a raging bitch and how fast can I burn your library if you're not going to hire me as a librarian.
Like a Pixar comic, there may be quite a bit that is young/new adult, but it is done well enough to be enjoyed by all ages, even precocious younger ones (unlike my recent read of Wake of Vultures).Irene is a resident of the Library, capital intended, a sort of reverse-Plutonian ideal library in which all books reside.
Only they don't yet, and so junior librarians like Irene are assigned to retrieve unique books from worlds connected to the Library.
There are a few times when Irene seemed almost unacceptably naive, missing at least one very obvious situation, but overall I feel okay with how the characterization works.
9/30/17 - ON SALE for $2.99:  http://amzn.to/2xJDGRKSo I'm only 12% into this thing, but as far as I can tell, it's about librarians. SPY librarians. Spy librarian THIEVES. Spy librarian THIEVES who can travel to PARALLEL DIMENSIONS for the express purpose of stealing books unique to that world.And depending on how much chaos exists in an individual world, DRAGONS might show up to breathe firey order into said chaos. (<------I don't actually know yet how the dragons correct the balance, just
9/30/17 - ON SALE for $2.99: 
http://amzn.to/2xJDGRKSo I'm only 12% into this thing, but as far as I can tell, it's about librarians.
SPY librarians.
Spy librarian THIEVES.
Spy librarian THIEVES who can travel to PARALLEL DIMENSIONS for the express purpose of stealing books unique to that world.And depending on how much chaos exists in an individual world, DRAGONS might show up to breathe firey order into said chaos.
(<------I don't actually know yet how the dragons correct the balance, just that they do, but WHO CARES??
B/c DRAGONS).
Throw in a bit of steampunk & dragons & sprinkle with detective fiction and an alternate-world Sherlock Holmes type of character & you have me floating on air with happiness.It struck the same chords as The Thursday Next series by Jasper Fforde and the magical Library of the Unseen University of the Discworld series by Terry Pratchett in a sense that I love both, but kudos to Genevieve Cogman to have created a library-story with its own right.So there is this secret library, THE LIBRARY -existing between worlds, where space-time-matter rules seem suspended - that harvests books from all possible realities with the help of dedicated librarians(-turned-secret agents).
Irene, the Librarian, with a capital L is tasked to seek out and deliver an important version of Grimm's Fairy Tales to the Library.
The Library is the repository of all the best books in all the worlds, and there are many worlds.The Librarians are a cross between secret agents and holy orders.
They are trained not to ask too many questions and to see their task as divine.
Irene is fairly new, but with a grit and determination unparalleled, she knows how to get the job done.
I wish I could be a Librarian too.
The London that Irene ends up in is very different to our own, and the people she encounters there are a heady mix of hero and villain – even those closest to her are not always what they seem and it is highly engaging throughout, with some laugh out loud moments, some edge of the seat thrills, with some real emotional resonance mixed up right in there.The mythology is intelligently created, it really is beautifully written, a real page turner where anything can happen and often does – right at the heart of it though is Irene and her love of books, which of course for any reader is a magical thing.
Collectively, this network is known as the Invisible Library, and their members are tasked with the utmost important mission: to procure and archive important works of fiction from all of the different realities, for the purposes of preservation and research.Our protagonist is Irene, a junior librarian agent.
When the book opens, Irene is just returning home to the Library, having completed her latest assignment in the field and looking forward to some time off.
It’s also a light read that has the distinct feel of being the first book a series, with room to grow in terms of character development and world-building.
This was fun.
A librarian/secret agent for a library that exists between dimensions (and rather outside of time) is sent in pursuit of a rare edition of the Grimm tales in an alternate steampunk world; hijinks ensue.
An alternate Sherlock-Holmes avatar from the local world and the librarian's apprentice who is more than he seems add a lot of interest.While sequels could obviously go to many alternate worlds if the writer gets bored with this one, I gather the immediate sequel returns to this first one.I have a personal interest in the author; earlier in her career when she was developing her chops doing freelance work, she wrote the excellent text for the GURPS Vorkosigan role-playing book.
https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1...Ta, L.
“I am a librarian. I am a servant of the Library.” With great ideas, comes great responsibility. Said no comic book character ever, but probably should have. Think about it as an avid reader. You see a book cover that looks gorgeous, you turn it around and read the summary and it tells you the story of a young woman, working for a secret library that recovers books from alternate realities. Add a Doctor Who comparison to the mix and you have one of the most interesting sounding books in a sort
I can tell you in advance, you feel disappointed and most likely kind of bumped.The Invisible Library tells the story of Irene, a young woman who works for a mysterious library that collects precious books through many alternate realities and their librarians act like a kind of spy.
I also got the impression that this book is intended for more mature readers (direct references to sex and alcohol, in a very clumsy way) but the writing itself seemed more aimed at young adults.The second problem comes from the world building.
Think Doctor Who meets The Infernal Devices + that tv show "The Librarians." There are faeries, dragons, detectives, wizards, creepy skin wearers, and werewolves all thrown together in a sort of steampunk alternate world with zeppelins.So basically the Library exists outside of time & space to house unique fiction books from alternate dimensions, which in turn reinforce the library's links to those worlds.
I found this passage in response to a character asking if chaos is magic: "There are lawful and chaotic forces active in all worlds.
For example, dragons are lawful forces and the Fae support chaos."So basically there's a bit of Dungeons & Dragons thrown in there too.
Rating: 4* of fiveI want to be a Librarian.The atmosphere of the place soothed her automatically; the rich lantern lights, the sheer scent of paper and leather, and the fact that everywhere she looked, there were books, books, beautiful books.***She was a Librarian, and the deepest, most fundamental part of her life involved a love of books.
The rich, delightful smell of old paper, leather and ink permeated the place, washing away the pettier odours of blood and oil and smog.Need I say more?
I am really impressed by this book. It is a solid 4 stars, impressive in its flow and writing. The book (view spoiler)[ has an impressive ability to mix so many fantasy themes and make it work. It could have gone horribly wrong yet it was the right combination of a lot of different elements, Fae, dragons, magic, Grimm brothers! The book also (hide spoiler)] feels like a tribute to two extremely relevant British authors, Agatha Christie and Sir Arthur Conan Doyle. To some extent is a book about i
The book (view spoiler)[ has an impressive ability to mix so many fantasy themes and make it work.
The simplicity of the underlying concept helps in better understanding how the Library and its magic works.
A place where you can store all the books (view spoiler)[ of all the alternate universes  (hide spoiler)]!Irene is a great character.
Kai was absolutely convincing in this support role (view spoiler)[ and please tell me how exciting was the moment he showed his true nature!
(hide spoiler)] and I am curious to see if his past will be more developed in the following books.
This was such a fun start to a new series that I know I am going to love (four books so far with the promise of a fifth soon!).Irene is an undercover librarian in a secret library that exists between alternate worlds.
The role of the library is to collect important books from the worlds to compare and protect them.
When Irene and a handsome young newly-minted agent are assigned to seek a collection of Grimm’s fairy tales from a steampunk Victorian London replete with vampires, werewolves, and Fae, it seems like a standard run -- until the Library’s arch-enemy appears, seeking the same book, and chaos ensues, literally.
An urban fantasy/steampunk/mystery/magic story, with ninja-wizard bad-ass librarians and plenty of literary winks and nods?
You managed to be both highly creative and comfortably familiar all at the same time.
Was it that perhaps you seemed a little too familiar, some of your plot twists a little too predictable?
THE INVISIBLE LIBRARY is a book that I've been curious to read for a while now and I was quite happy when I got the chance to read it.
A Library that collects fiction from different realities.
The book is intriguing right from the start as we get to know Irene who is on a mission to retrieve or rather steal a book.
Finding rare books is what Irene and others that work for the Library do, they blend in and steal books and especially rare books that only exist in one reality or differ in another reality.READ THE REST OF THE REVIEW OVER AT FRESH FICTION!
When I first picked it up it seemed like a book that would be right up my alley.
For me, the writing was just so-so and I felt that the library served as simply a vehicle where the author could introduce a bunch of cool worlds.
When I got to the end of the book I realized that I read about a lot of different fantastic settings but ultimately I didn't care for any of the characters or the endeavors that they were involved in.
Just too much fluff for my liking and not enough substance.
The existence of a secret library set between alternate worlds is a very pleasing idea and it made for some great fun and games. This story has a bit of everything-magic, dragons, werewolves, vampires, fae and more. I enjoyed the book and read it pretty fast but felt that it trailed off a bit by the end. There were pages of Agatha Christie type denouement and then it just fizzled out. Nevertheless I will be back for more because I have to find out what happens next to our intrepid librarian and her unlikely sidekicks.
I absolutely adored this book. :)One part Doctor Who, one part Steampunk, one part Chronicles of St Mary's... toss in dragons and fae. Stir vigorously. Voila! The Invisible Library!
Starting with, of course, a secret extra-dimensional library with All The Books, connecting parallel universes, and librarians who are secret agents traversing these worlds in search of rare manuscripts.
It soon becomes clear that this mission is a bit out of the ordinary, when people start turning up dead and it seems that the Library's treasonous arch-nemesis is involved - as well as some plain old jealousy and 'office politics.' Why on earth were two such junior Librarians assigned to this hazardous mission?Part detective story, part adventure-fantasy, the hijinks that ensue are good fun.
ღ - Libraries (Duh)ღ - Dragons, seriously hot dragons (Um…Double Duh)ღ - Fae (It is a love/hate thing)ღ - Sherlock Holme’s type character (Elementary, dear Watson)ღ - Steampunk Alligators (So much more scary than regular ones)ღ - A murder mystery (see above like of Sherlock Holmes)So I should have found this book forever ago.
Worlds that haven’t fallen into chaos will have humans and a blend of both magic and technology that follows rules.Most of our story is spent on one world touched by Chaos as Irene and her new apprentice Kia search for a book to take back to the Library.
Interesting world...A bit boring.Complicated and inconsistent setting.Irene, a Librarian...I felt detached while reading this: I didn’t really care about the characters or the events.
It was pretty boring for me.This book just didn’t work for me.I like the detective and investigating parts.
Though alternate world is a pretty common idea, I like the notion that there are many possibilities such as the existence of supernatural ability and creatures.
Regardless of him being a detective, he’s the only one who is obviously smart and thinking and who makes sense.Personally, I don’t think this is a very poor book.
It had many of the things that appeal to my reading sensibilities—libraries, book collecting, an urban fantasy vibe, espionage, detectives, and it was not overloaded with romance.
It was kind of overloaded with concepts, however, which prevents it from reaching the pinnacle of 5 stardom, in my opinion.
The one vampire, for example, just seems to get tossed in—he only makes an appearance as a body, truly dead this time.
And that second book is still “on order” at my public library—this will force me to pace myself while reading this series.Highly recommended to others who toil in libraries and sometimes feel unappreciated!
Check.Spies and thieves and detectives, a heist novel focused on a book.
Check.Dragons and Fae and chaos necromancers and Library Words that function as Words of Power.
I'd like to say it comes pretty close, too, but for all the potential, it really just reads like a simple heist novel with all the ups and downs and mishaps associated with a heist gone wrong.
It reads like a very fine UF that spans all SF and F in potential with a love of literature at its roots.
I may not be squealing about this first novel, but the potential is really there.
Firstly, big thanks go to the wonderful Gordon at Grab This Book and Tor Books for my copy of The Invisible Library.
Gordon kindly suggested I should be introduced to this series, and Tor Books agreed so I was thrilled to be sent a copy.The Invisible Library is brilliant.
The world-building is superb, and it really makes the reader’s imagination go to work as there is so much beautiful detail within its pages.The beauty of reading a book like The Invisible Library is knowing that it’s the first in the series.
Public Service Announcement: This book is not Steampunk. It's Fantasy.Liked it, but am not a fan of the narrator for the audiobook. She did ok, and her voice is pleasant enough, but she reads in a breathy style with inflections that seemed wrong sometimes. I got used to it though. Just an FYI if you're considering the audio version, might check the sample first.
These worlds have monsters, mad scientists, airships, and dangerous Fae. Across these worlds the powers of Chaos (the Fae) and Order (Dragons) vie in a conflict the Library does what it can to stay neutral in.It is in this fascinating universe that we find Irene dispatched on a seemingly run of the mill mission saddled with a trainee, Kai (who naturally some air of mystery about him that is not immediately apparent).
Cogman weaves a cool story about the mission, the happenings of the world Irene and Kai finds herself in, the greater conflict between Order and Chaos, and the secret history of the Library.
Irene works for the library, a mysterious society based between alternate worlds.
As the book begins we are thrown in at the deep end of her world, without knowing anything about the library, librarians, the alternates, or the people and beings that occupy these places.
It was definitely a slow burner for me; although towards the end I had started to warm towards the characters and wanted to learn more about the library and the people who chose to become librarians.
I'll definitely be reading the second book in this series - the masked city.
I think I may have accidentally stumbled upon a real gem of a story.I was first attracted to this book simply because of the title.
I loved the world building that was done in this book and enjoyed the steampunk feel to the story.
The whereabouts of the book that they were after was quite the mystery for me and I never really guessed what was going on until it was revealed in the story.I would highly recommend this book to fans of light fantasy.
A secret library, alternate worlds, all kinds of wonderful paranormal characters, and an exciting story full of action.
Though the writing was clever, and the idea—a Library that reaches across dimensions, promising zeppelins and dragons and vampires and werewolves, among other magical and steampunkly razzle-dazzle—seemed designed to appeal to me, I’d read a scene or two, lay it aside, and pick up something else, then see it, figure my mood had been wrong, and try it again.
Just to put it aside after a scene or two.Part of the problem was Miss Irene Winters, our central protagonist.
Irene is a librarian spy for the Library, an monumental, ancient, and mysterious organization.
If things weren't difficult enough, Irene knows that Kai is hiding something very important about himself.
The world building is topnotch and I loved getting to know both Irene and Kai. My favorite supporting cast member is Vale, a Sherlock Holmes inspired detective from the steampunk alternate world.
If you like Doctor Who, The Librarians, Sherlock Holmes, The Eyre Affair by Jasper Fforde, and Soulless by Gail Carriger, I have a feeling that you'll like Cogman's debut novel.
