https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/4340651-the-disintegration-machine
A short novel from the Challenger series, I read it just after The Land of the mist (which I hated) and it was like finding sunshine after several months in the dark, but it is probably just all right.
There's nothing really profound here for a modern sci-fi reader but it does pack in a lot for such a short story - a machine that can disintegrate anything, the imagined horror of what such a machine could be used for if in the wrong hands, and the death of one man to save millions. All themes and ideas that have been explored in more detail in other works, but for such a quick read, it was worth the time.
The final appearance of Professor Challenger fizzles in an awkward, rushed story written near the end of Doyle's life when he was consumed with the supernatural.
Doyle also claims that such a thing may be possible because what we call solid mass might be like a projection on the screen of the "ether." (I'll be writing a full review of that loony book as soon as I finish it.) Since this story was published the same year as The Edge of the Unknown, it seems that Doyle was just trotting out Challenger one more time to explore this fringe belief.
Another Professor Challenger experience, here he and his reporter friend Malone meet inventor Nemor...
"The first duty of the law-abiding citizen is to prevent murder."ethical debate: kill a man to save the world...
From BBC Radio 4 Extra:Sir Arthur Conan Doyle's indomitable academic must investigate dastardly Latvian scientist Theodore Nemor. Stars Bill Paterson.
Obviously such a machine would have a huge influence on the world, particularly if sold as a weapon but what will Challenger do about it?From a modern perspective the sort of machine in this story is a staple of science-fiction, it's pretty much the same as transportation in Star Trek- but I guess in 1929 it would have been a more fantastical idea.
It's well done here and given an almost magical feel that Doyle was so good at achieving in the Challenger stories.
Doyle is always lauded for the great character of Sherlock Holmes but Professor Challenger is also fantastic.
Humorous short story about a man who created a machine that can disintegrate almost anything. Nice ending. Could only find one quote due to the shortness of the book."You cannot explain one incredible thing by quoting another incredible thing"
This short story is remarkable for two things.
First, a Latvian crazy scientist discovered beaming in the early twentieth century.
Replace the Latvian scientist with any modern day mass murderer / terrorist / villain.
(view spoiler)[Challenger’s reaction is pragmatic: He ruins the scientist’s plan of selling his disintegration machine to the highest bidder by disintegrating him without integrating him again afterwards.
(hide spoiler)]For a short story with less than 10 pages this is a lot of content.
The most entertaining Challenger story albeit nothing redeeming the weak Challenger franchise.
Like all of the Professor Challenger series, The Disintegration Machine and When the World Screamed were serialised in The Strand Magazine. These two titles were combined in book form in 1929. Graham Greene once remarked: "Doyle may not have been a great writer ... but he was certainly a great story-teller."Unfortunately these two novellas are only mediocre stories.
A pretty exciting and quick read, in the style oh, so typical for Sir Arthur Conan Doyle. For once, Challenger turned out to be the charming, kind and thoughtful one without too much fuss. Malone somewhat reminds me of a confused Summerlee in previous stories :D
No hair!!!It's a funny little story.
Again I would never have read this if it wasn't super short. I'm honestly glad that there are no more Professor Challenger stories because they just don't live up to Conan Doyle's greatness.
Short story with great twist ending.
Very short, fun little story, along the lines of the others in the Professor Challenger series.
Amusing.
He is the best I have ever had, who made his students love to read, taught them what the real values are and all this with excellent anecdotes.I remember one where George Calinescu, the greatest Romanian writer had a course in Literature and asked a Question.
He claims that he wants to spare his country the ordeal of having to fight an enemy who might have in his armory a terrible weapon, which could win him the war.If we think of the fact that the bombs of Hiroshima and Nagasaki have pushed Japan out of the war in 1945, that judgment may prove to be accurate.On the other hand, the machine in the tale desintegrates, but can also „bring Back”what has vanished.
A short and sweet story by Conan Doyle. It was so good to see two main characters from The Lost World back in action, and this time they are going to reveal a great mystery.. a revolutionary invention has bee made by a scientist, and it's up to Challenger and Malone to reveal if its genuine or a hoax. There are no T-Rexes or ape men chasing our heroes this time, but this story is as good as The Lost World.
At the request of a newspaper reporter, Professor Challenger investigates a Latvian scientist, Theodore Nemor, who claims to be able to disintegrate and reconstruct matter by dispersing an object's atomic structure into the ether. (Ah Victorian ether... Is there anything you CAN'T do?) The rather abrupt ending left me wondering just who the "good guy" was supposed to be in this story.
this is singularly the most inexplicable mystery that i have read thus far from Sir Arthur Conan Doyle. well, if one cannot figure out the unexplained, might as well just trap one to prevent the potential damaging repercussions! as always, the villain's tendency to gloat has led him to his own downfall.
Not the first of Sci-fi by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle that I read. This is a short story which one can finish reading in no time, and yet have a strong impression of the duty of men of science towards the wellbeing of mankind. Professor Challenger proves himself ... once again.
Challenger outwits greedy little inventor in this short tale about power potentially being in the wrong hands.
This Professor Challenger story was a fun read. Theodore Nemor's invention provided an ethical dilemma, and the ending was a satisfactory (if loosely moralized) solution.
This was the first story other than Sherlock Holmes from Doyle that I've read. I had fun reading this back then. Highly recommended if you want to read a light sci-fi ones =)
This was my first Professor Challenger story, but something tells me it won't be my last!
One of Arthur Conan Doyles's short sci-fi stories. I highly recommend these.
It was an okay, quick read. I've read a ton by Doyle (Mostly Sherlock Holmes, Lost World ect.) this wasn't one of my favorites but like it said if you want a quick read this is a good story.
This story wasn't really necessary, but it was enjoyable. The ending left me cackling like an idiot.
