https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/5306.Travels_with_Charley
“I saw in their eyes something I was to see over and over in every part of the nation- a burning desire to go, to move, to get under way, anyplace, away from any HERE. They spoke quietly of how they wanted to go someday, to move about, free and unanchored, not toward something but away from something. I saw this look and heard this yearning everywhere in every states I visited. Nearly every American hungers to move.” The steed...Rocinante!John Steinbeck was not feeling very well before he decide
He’d become a celebrity and was more interested in talking to Dag Hammarskjold and Adlai Stevenson.”So the thinking is, that instead of this solo trip where he has cut all ties to the comforts of his life and is out among the people pressing the flesh and writing down his observations of real America, that Travels with Charley is actually a tall tale.
He had a hard time leaving her and I’m sure at some point the decision was made that if this trip is going to be any kind of success at all that he needed the care and comfort of his wife along the way.
dude, steinbeck is so much better than kerouac.and i know that is a totally obvious statement, but if i want to read a story about a man traveling across america and describing his findings, it is going to be a man with a varied vocabulary, a keen eye for detail, and some powers of interpreting his experiences.
I usually enjoy fiction, but a mite cheated when I learn that a travelogue isn't. I'm sure some people enjoy the writing regardless of the misleading content. Steinbeck never went to some of the places in the book, he made up the folks that he never met and the hotels and resorts he and his wife stayed in are a bit more luxurious than the camper top on his GMC pick-up. On the plus side, he did purchase a pick-up truck and add a camper top to it. His wife did have a poodle named Charley.
In a book of about two hundred pages, one can hardly expect a detailed look at all of America.
It was, of necessity, merely a sketch of some parts of the country.
Steinbeck and Charley - from the NY TimesThe subtitle of the book is “In Search of America.” What travel books are really about, particularly when undertaken by a literary person, is self-discovery.
The compelling parts made the trip one worth taking.
Looks like he did a fair bit of research and concluded that Steinbeck's journey may have been more of an internal one than we believed.
(This news first broke in 2011, but I didn't learn it until I saw it mentioned in John Waters' book about hitchhiking, "Carsick.")When the 50th anniversary edition of "Travels with Charley" was published in 2012, it came with a disclaimer: "Indeed, it would be a mistake to take this travelogue too literally, as Steinbeck was at heart a novelist, and he added countless touches – changing the sequence of events, elaborating on scenes, inventing dialogue – that one associates more with fiction than nonfiction."So here is my conundrum: Knowing that parts of it have been fictionalized, should I continue to recommend it to others?
While I've read Steigerwald’s conclusions about Steinbeck’s journey with interest, it matters little to me that the work has been edited in such a way as to make it look like Steinbeck and Charley were travelling alone almost all the time, whereas Steinbeck’s original manuscript (held at the Morgan Library & Museum in New York City) shows that Steinbeck’s wife Elaine was with him for much of the time and that he probably spent more than half the nights he was away sleeping in hotels rather than in the truck.
My father bought me this book when I was probably about eight years old, and I read it quickly and fell in love with it. One day (now that I've thought of it, probably sooner than later) I'll reread it, but for now I'm content believing I would still find it a good read.
I've driven coast to coast across the U.S. fives times already and yet, thanks to Travels with Charley I'm ready to go again!During the mid-century period, discovering America and/or oneself through the medium of the road-trip came into vogue.
Steinbeck veers off now and then, but it's always for a good cause and it never lasts too long.
:o I love Steinbeck's super sleuthing in the Chicago hotel room, where he adeptly pieces together a clandestine romance in a way that would impress Sherlock Holmes.
In Travels with Charley: In Search of America, John Steinbeck provides an entertaining and wry account of his observations as he road trips with his poodle in what essentially becomes his house on wheels, Rocinante.
I know that's the nature of travel writing, but I wanted more from Steinbeck.
When he climbs out of Rocinante and explores a new town, does he see characters from his novels?
I wasn't sure how he grew during this trip, just that he (and Charley) seemed to intuitively know when the journey was over.
Although I have only been to California, Philadelphia, Texas and Ohio, visualizing those places he visited and conversations that he had with the people he met was not a problem.
The thought of Steinbeck risking his life to be able to see the country for the last time and talk to the people who patronized his novels was a marked of a good artist or, simply, a good humble man.And oh yes, if you love reading about dogs, read this because Charley could even talk.
Steinbeck imagined words being said by his dog in one of the scenes and their dialogues were so clever and amusing.
Plagued by a chronic disease and probably feeling like it was now or never, Mr. Steinbeck hit the road from his home in Sag Harbor and traveled across the states and back again, making astute observations as he went and sharing a bit of the flavor of America in this moment of great upheaval and change.
As he prepared to leave, he says, ”I printed it once more on my eyes, south, west, and north, and then we hurried away from the permanent and changeless past where my mother is always shooting a wildcat and my father is always burning his name with his love.”I know this feeling all too well.
It was my first travelogue, and I only read it because, a) I was bored and b)I figured I couldn't go wrong with Steinbeck - a writer I already enjoyed reading (still do).But I have a wicked streak of wanderlust in me, too, and Steinbeck really caught me at a good time.
That mood lasted all through the book.I managed to get through the whole trip with the cranky writer, and he was actually quite good company!
At the end of the trip, I found I missed not being able to climb back into his pickup (aptly named Rocinante after Don Quixote's horse)with him and the noble Charley, and head out on adventures new.But the mood passed, and so did the Summer.
Since that time, graduating 20 years ago, I have not read Steinbeck again.
I bought this book to read on a train trip I had planned in California, since I knew that Steinbeck's father was a train man and that he grew up in California.
A few broad comments on travel that I liked:"I felt at last that my journey had started; I think I hadn't really believed in it before.""We know so little of our own geography." (Maine)"It is possible, even probable, to be told a truth about a place, to accept it, to know it, and at the same time, to not know anything about it...
The main one I think of is East of Eden, which I also have bought and left on a shelf.
Steinbeck dubs the truck "Rocinante" after Don Quixote's horse and after weeks of planning, pries himself away from his wife, checks for stowaways and heads northeast for Maine.So as not to distress anyone with the truth behind his rambling, Steinbeck racks a shotgun, two rifles and a couple of fishing rods in Rocinante, " ...
for it is my experience that if a man is going hunting or fishing his purpose is understood and even applauded." He notes a certain look in the eyes of those he talks to about his trip, whether neighbors or strangers, and the longing they express to join him, to break free, go somewhere, anywhere, as long as it's not here.Many have retraced Steinbeck's famous route, which passes through New England, Michigan, Illinois, Montana, the West Coast, the Southwest, Texas and New Orleans.
Then his publisher, The Viking Press, marketed the book as nonfiction, and the gullible reviewers of the day—from The New York Times to The Atlantic—bought every word."Bill Barich, an American writer who also took the Steinbeck trip and published his account as Long Way Home: On the Trail of Steinbeck's America came to a similar conclusion.
I have a feeling that if I had read Travels with Charley back in high school instead of The Grapes of Wrath or even Of Mice and Men, I would have actually liked Steinbeck rather than merely appreciated him.Part of my Steinbeck indifference was obviously influenced by my teenage attitude.
The image of Steinbeck that I took away from that class one of a Very Important American Author, sitting behind a grand oak desk, pondering which Important Theme to tackle next.Reading Travels with Charley showed me that my imagination was grossly mistaken.
Steinbeck ponders road maps instead of Important Themes and I was pleased to note that while he has me licked in literary masterpieces, my directional sense is far superior to his.
I imagine this caused some waves back in the early 1960's when the book was published, before the passage of the Civil Rights Act. But we should expect nothing less from Steinbeck, the champion of the oppressed, and chronicler of the lives of the most marginalized in American society.
I know two people from Montana and they are unique in their ways, and some of my favorite people.
Steinbeck put Montana on my "must visit" list.
I got my copy of the book from the library.
I didn't mind the wait nor the condition of the book because they told me that more than 50 years after publication, this book is still widely read.
When I was very young and the urge to be someplace else was on me, I was assured by mature people that maturity would cure this itch, When years described me as mature, the remedy prescribed was middle age. In middle age I was assured that greater age would calm my fever and now that I am fifty-eight perhaps senility will do the job. I liked the idea that inspired this book: John Steinbeck, great American writer, decides to set off on a cross country exploration of America, a country he became
I liked the idea that inspired this book: John Steinbeck, great American writer, decides to set off on a cross country exploration of America, a country he became acclaimed for writing about after fearing he has lost touch with his roots.
Maybe they call it Americans.").Steinbeck's travels took him all across America:But as a whole this book felt a bit hollow to me.
The meat of this book was Steinbeck's ruminations on such things as memory, the loss of regional dialects ("I can remember a time when I could almost pinpoint a man's place of origin by his speech.
This is Steinbeck the man.Turns out that Steinbeck the man, here recorded for all time, in his late fifties was a bit depressed, recently diagnosed as being on his way toward heart trouble, and a little weary of the world.
And, even though it is sometimes dated in its fifty-year-old observations, most of what he experiences here could stand the test of time.
I had no idea I had so much in common with John Steinbeck.And, after all, who doesn't love a good road trip?
What is there not to love about a travelogue featuring John Steinbeck and his French poodle Charley? Look at them, they're best friends:And check out the awesome Rocinante (named after Don Quixote's horse), a custom-made camper truck that carried them around America:This is the route they took that I'd love to retrace someday:
You know how the heroes of westerns and comic books and adventures are always good men?
My dad likes that kind of story where the moral is, "nothing is better than a good man!" He is the type that thinks a "man" just lives the best way he can!
So how can I not give five stars to the memoir that includes Steinbeck's own words, "There's nothing better than a good man." How, goodreaders?
This book may cause some to get a jolt of wanderlust, but I felt a little of the opposite when he went back to his hometown of Monterey on the trip, and sat in a bar with his aging amigos and tried to convince them that you can't go home.
Man, this book came so exactly at the right time in my life. I think I was about thirteen or fourteen. I went back to the ancestral home in Illinois, and my cousins were getting rid of some books. One of them was Travels With Charley. I read it while we were driving back home. I think I made my family's life a living hell by comparing them constantly to Steinbeck and Charlie's trip across the country. Oh, well. Sometimes the families of readers have to suffer.
How often I have wished to do this: just get on the road and head off for destinations unknown. Searching for America John Steinbeck also finds out more about himself - via the intersection of "Examined Life" avenue and "Socratic" lane.
When I chose this title of Steinbeck to the bookstore, I did not knew exactly what I expect, not knowing the title.
But I imagined a journey across a large part of United States, many meetings and a kind of report on the 1960's America.
Let us recall that he'd voyaged in 1960.To have an image of America is better another guide.
But to better understand Steinbeck this book is perfect.Yes, Steinbeck believes that when traveling on highways the eye riveted on maps, we can see the landscape less and being caught in a tide of cars is more challenging than pleasant.
REALLY enjoyed this eventful journey thru 40 States with Mr. Steinbeck and his dog Charley. The adventure begins in September 1960 with Hurricane Donna before he even leaves home and ends with a historic snowstorm, but everything in the middle is pretty darn good too!The story is written with humor, but with a profound sadness to it (perhaps due to Mr. Steinbeck's declining health) and whether the novel is truly fact or just fiction is unimportant to me as I found it an insightful and entertaining ride during a tumultuous time in America.
In literary criticism the critic has no choice but to make over the victim of his attention into something the size and shape of himself. This little volume must rank as one of the great American travel books—though I am not quite sure what that means. Travel literature, by its nature, finds itself in a paradoxical position: to search for truth by becoming briefly acquainted with a wide and disconnected series of experiences. Steinbeck addresses this in his opening salvo: “So it was I decided t
Steinbeck looks upon the country—one which he once knew so deeply that he created its most representative novels—and finds it unfamiliar.
He was writing in the wake of On the Road, another iconic travel book; and though Steinbeck’s work is far more mature and, I think, much better written, it nevertheless fails to capture the ethos of the time in the way Kerouac or, indeed, the younger Steinbeck was able to do.
But it sounds true enough, and that is all I want from a travel book.

Steinbeck points out that no two people will see the same event with the same eyes.
This is what Steinbeck saw and experienced, and he may even have juggled the facts to fit what he wanted to have said by this book.
Primarily he looks at and tries to talk to the people he meets, although he was lucky if he got even a few "yeps" out of New Englanders in the early hours.
One shouldn't compare writing skills, but in both books a picture is drawn of a man standing there in his Wellingtons, and in both there is that stream cluttered with garbage.
Dopo anni di lotta scopriamo che non siamo noi a fare il viaggio; è il viaggio che "fa" noi.Nel 1961 John Steinbeck decide di compiere un viaggio attraverso gli Stati Uniti perché ritiene di essersi allontanato dalle persone, dagli americani e uno scrittore questo, non se lo può permettere.E' un libro per gli irrequieti, gli amanti di Chatwin e di Kerouac e per tutti gli animi vagabondi:Vedevo nei loro occhi qualche cosa che avrei rivisto tante volte in ogni parte del paese...
I read this as a buddy read with my friend, Mikki, and from the first fffft from Charley to Steinbeck's final wrong turn in his home town, no less, Steinbeck kept me cruising through his memoir of traveling 1960's America.
I'll admit to an hesitancy to pick up Travels With Charley: In Search of America, it being non-fiction and my Steinbeck reading record being at 3 books read, 3 books loved, after all, a disappointment could be over the horizon.
To my joy, Travels With Charley: In Search of America brought the Steinbeck-streak to 4-for-4.
