https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/830791.The_Simple_Truth
The first novel by this author they I've read, really enjoyed it. Felt very connected to Rufus and his plight. I will read more of this author for sure. This is a prolific author I really don't know much about. Maybe my friends will have to help me fill in the blanks!
Rufus Harms has spent 25 years in the US Army's Fort Jackson Military Prison, Virgina.Michael Fiske, is a "unprecedented" 3rd year senior clerk to a United States Supreme Court, most clerks take 1 year before going to private law practice.Rufus sends a "appeal" letter to show he was following instructions & drugged in a Army's Vietnam War experiment 25 years ago when accused of a young dead girl - Ruth Ann Mosley(10).
A black man, Rufus, was attacked while in the Army and given a syringe of PCP.
The attackers, we do not find out actually who they are until the last 20 pages, hope to kill him.
because he spends the Vietnam Era in the Army land side.
He does not die but blacks out.
The book starts at the epoch when he asks for an appeal to the highest court in the land.
One man is in the FBI, another in the police force, another....well the plot gets deeper and most interesting because these men hold high offices and are investigating the murders of the men who are actually trying to help Rufus.
The something happens and the characters start doing things that create plot twists but no sane person able to walk and chew gum at the same time would believe.A Supreme Court Clerk (Michael) proposes to another Supreme Court Clerk (Sara) even though they aren't dating.
This story takes place in and around Washington DC. It centers around an old man who has spent the last 25 years of his life in a military prison for murder. He files an appeal (I won't tell you why), and a star clerk for the Supreme Court gets involved. There are lots of twists and lots of suspense. There's murder, cover-up, romance, and everything else that David Baldacci is great at. If you've read anything else by him and liked it, you'll love this one.
Առաջին գիրքնա Բալդաչիից, բայց մյուս գրածներն էլ կկարդամ էս տարի։ Պուպուշ գալիվուդսկի պաթոսով ֆինալ էր։ Մեջն ինչ ասես կար՝ ծախված դատավորներ, սիրային պուճուրիկ դրամա, ախպերական սեր, էքշըն, մի թեթև պատմություն Ամերիկայի արդարադատության կազմավորումից։ Ընդհանուր հետաքրքիր էր, ուղղակի պետք ա դեմի 150 էջը դիմանալ) P.S. Հազիվ մի անգամ նախորոք կարացա գուշակեմ գլխավոր զլաձեյին))))
I do like a good thriller, especially with twists and turns.
Reading further I was wondering if it was necessary to introduce so many characters in the beginning.
But I liked the twist at the end, when the suspected bad guy turned out to be a good one, and vice versa.While I was curious what happen next, the book was too long and sometimes too slow for my taste.
The characters were OK, even there were an interesting family connection between the Fiske brothers and the parents.If you have some free time to kill, it’s an OK read.
I'll just say that what makes this, to my mind at least, a book far superior to Divine Justice is a combination of well drawn characters and a plot that is at once personal in its effect on the most important characters and also has big-picture range, exploring the aspects of the high court's function as discussed above.
But in this novel, Baldacci goes well beyond that first tier of characters to create a cast of characters that feels like a bunch of people we might actually know.
I usually find mystery/thriller books to be full of flat and unrealistic characters with poorly conceived stories.
The story actually took over a hundred pages for the murder to happen -- this is a murder mystery isn't it?
Baldacci even has sections of the book in the bad guys point of view where the bad guy (and his friends -- the ones we know about) studiously does not think about himself so that we won't know who he is.
If the story (or section of the story) is from a certain point of view then the reader should know everything the character knows.
Loved Baldacci's style of writing; for the simplicity of the language, especially because it revolves around law and justice. It is fast-paced with a little romance, action and suspense. He is, without doubt, one of the best 'political-thriller' authors I have come across! The Simple Truth is a page turner and a must-read.
A well crafted fast moving treat it's my second read for the week. I have been away all this week and read "Last Man Standing" and feel that David Baldacci has raised the Bar a level with this book we had interesting twists and one quite big surprise in the finale I would recommend this Book I f you want a top Mystery thriller after all that i will have to say 5 stars
It took me while to get into this book but I trusted Mr Baldacci and his style to take me to the end of a good ready.Rufus Harms has been in the stockade 25 years for a murder he commited. But that is all about to change with a letter he receives from the military. He attempts to file an appeal directly to the Supreme Court. A string of murders begin to occur once the appeal leaves his hands. Can he possibly get his case heard?
This one is classic Baldacci, reminded me of themes in other books he wrote. I hated what Rufus had to go through, hated how he was wronged, but loved that there were people that stepped up to help him. Sure many of them didn’t expect to at the start, but by the end most everyone was doing the right thing. By the end of the book you have hope that those that are left will live their lives in a way to honor and fix what had been done.
A very good exciting "ride". Told in a very straightforward way and - not sure if this is the right word - stringently, meaning no unnecessary sidelines or flowery sub plots. At times, emotionally hard to listen to / read, all this injustice against innocent people just gets to me and Baldacci manages to hit just this spot again and again. The characters were compelling enough and the plot as such good although the crime committed in some ways I thought did not justify such a big cover up. But then... maybe it did.
You can read my review at http://world-of-sleuths.blogspot.com/....
Another balsamic great. Great characters, moving target on who dun it and great surprise ending.
I have to read more of his books. This one is a real page turner.
Fast paced and intense, this thriller kept me on the edge of my seat with all of its twists and turns.
It's been a while since I've read Baldacci, I had forgotten how he can tell a story that is utterly compelling, yet it's never to graphically violent or sexually explicit. He has done an amazing job in creating both likable as well as unlikable characters. This is a fast paced thriller filled with intrigue, conspiracy and betrayal. Baldacci is one of my favorite authors.
reading this book...was roads i have traveled...and Lived...2nd book i have read of his...AWESOME...i think they should make Movies with his Books... :)
A solid and entertaining mystery. Complex and interesting characters.
Supreme Court law clerk Michael Fiske gets in over his head when he begins to pursue the truth in the prisoner's claims (fearing the celebrities that might get involved) before officially filing the appeal with the Court.
Mike's brother John, an ex-cop and young lawyer himself, together with Mike's ex-girlfriend Sara, another law clerk, who takes an immediate romantic interest in John, pursue the bad guys with a vengeance.
Baldacci reveals that he also knows how to drop just the right number of clues, along with a few red herrings, to keep us beguiled until nearly the final page.
After writing his own appeal to be sent to the Supreme Court, Rufus contacts the lawyer who represented him at his murder trial, telling him he owed Rufus the courtesy of a visit, insisting that he bring a radio with him.
The envelope containing the document is actually the document that the lawyer is sneaking out of the prison.Returning to his office, the lawyer adds one page of explanation with no signature, mailing Rufus’ handwritten appeal to the Supreme Court, starting the ball rolling towards murder and the search for the truth.
The Simple Truth is anything but simple – in the telling anywayThe Simple Truth is the story of Rufus Harms, who recovers his memory 25 years after being convicted of killing a young girl.
Character development is good, as Rufus Harms comes to life.
The characters of John Fiske, a former cop and current lawyer, and Sara Evans, US Supreme Court clerk, however, are a bit murkier, as their love story, in particular, seems strained in the context of the ongoing action.

k, I've read almost all Baldacci books now and I really liked a few of his others such as: First Family, Hour Game (all time favorite), The Winner, Deliver Us From Evil, Total Control, and the Camel club series.
But I'm going to have to add this one!
The Simple Truth!
I REALLY loved this storyline and he'd done it again.
He brings the story alive, and his characters seem real and you get sucked into his books!
I love the way he writes and he's my all time favorite author!
He really didn't dissapoint me on this one.
While I almost always enjoy the occasional David Baldacci book, I've wondered at how many he manages to churn out, and how quickly.
This book provided one explanation - write it, publish it.
Leaves out the step 'edit it'.
There were three glaring errors that jumped out as I read.
For example, a fight that results from a barred road ends with a drive down that same sealed road - no mention of the gate that created the scene in the first place.
The discontinuities do not detract from the story, but it does show how the author has published so many novels so quickly.Still an enjoyable, if somewhat predictable, read.
This is a really good fast paced thriller packed full of conspiracy and intrigue as Rufus Harms tries to clear his name after spending 25 years behind bars, helped by John Fiske, whose brother got caught in the cross fire when he stumbles across Harms' case.
There are lots of twists and turns that keep the story interesting and keep you guessing as to the motives and outcomes and the characters are well written and generally believable, although I still don't get why Harms' waited so long to try and clear his name (don't know whether I missed something here or if it just isn't explained).
Overall this is a good read.
David Baldacci is known for his page turning thrillers and un-putdownable fast reads. True. This is another one of them. But, there's a difference. This one is a Powerhouse Never before since The Day of the Jackal has a thriller so impressed me. Why? Because the character development done is simply superb. The painful past, injuries and feelings portrayed by Baldacci through John Fiske are too spontaneous and human, making his character immediately realizable.  This is one book whose movie adaptation I'd love to watch.
I liked this book because it was a mystery.It is very well written and an easy read. It is about a lawyer who sets out to clear a man who was sent to prison for a crime he did not commit. It certainly shows how the judicial system sometimes fails people. People are getting killed because of the research this lawyer is doing to find out the real truth.
