https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/56634.Through_Gates_of_Splendor
Are we called to any less, in terms of our heart devotion?One of the men, Roger, had already experienced the hardships of a missionary life, yet still went willingly with the others believing it was of God: A missionary plods through the first year or two, thinking that things will be different when he speaks the language.
Some of the thoughts that came to mind when reading this book were, what makes a man so completely devoted to his faith?
Once again it goes back to that desire the 5 men had to bring the Gospel to every man.
I think it stated that just 5 years later, the sister of one of the men who was killed was living with that same group of people.
Even though I thought it was crazy that these 5 men put themselves in harm's way, their death actually converted far more and opened the door wider than if they would have lived.
The powerful and "cut-to-the-heart" challenging account written by the widow of one of the 5 young missionaries who gave up their earthly lives with the death-defying intention of reaching the Auca Indians in Ecuador for the sake of their Sovereign God and His Gospel.
Each of us knew when we married our husbands that there would never be any question about who came first -- God and His work held held first place in each life.
It was amazing to see how God wove each individual’s story together with the others and how, despite their weakness and the hardships they endured, the men remained faithful to their Savior unto death.
They succeeded in opening the door to reaching the Aucas with the gospel, and their deaths resulted in many coming to know Jesus and inspired millions all over the world to reach others with the gospel.
It was sobering and yet awe-inspiring to read what God did through those five men.
Here are some of the words from the hymn the men sung before setting off on the mission that ended in their deaths for the sake of the gospel.
I am left feeling moved and inspired to continue to serve and sacrifice Christ no matter what the cost.
The devotion of these men to their Saviour, reflected so well in their own journal writings, was incredibly touching and inspiring.
What a joy to read it with my children.
My prayer is that they would also be captured by the power and love of our wonderful God and want to give their lives to Jesus no matter the cost!(My daughter Aliyah also wrote a review below which I was so blessed to read.)
This story impacted me as a child, and then Wycliffe did a musical based on the story that made me consider becoming a Bible translator for a while. I've read this at least five times, but not in 12 years.
This is not a tragic story.I mean, it's sad. I felt so many feelings, especially towards the end, and a sense of shock and horror and just plain sadness.But it's also so inspirational. How God used those missionaries to do more good than anyone could have ever dreamed? And I had no clue Elizabeth Elliot knew Corrie Ten Boom! This is a story people should never forget, and it honestly inspires me to trust God no matter what!
I gave this a 4 star rating not because the writing was amazing (it was dry/slow at times) but more because the faith and daily living of these men (and their wives) was truly amazing. They gave all and really lived out what the Bible speaks.
While reading the book I thought it was the worst thing in the world.
But once we actually broke down the situation and story line, the whole scheme of things was tragic but interesting.
I still didn't like the book, but it earned its second star for the over all story, and its third star for a very interesting documentary about it.
Although the documentary doesn't really have anything to do with the actual book, it does tell the initial story in under thirty minutes and has footage as well.Personally, as a youth, I would recommend the documentary.
True story of 5 male missionaries who were murdered by indigenous people in Ecquador in the fifties.
The author is the wife of one of the murdered men.
I have a vague recollection of hearing or reading or seeing a TV special about this incident and these people, so when I found this book in an RV park library, I snagged it.
It's a good story that would have been better told by someone else.
I read this on the heels of reading Annie Dillard's "The Living" and I found myself comparing the pioneers of the Pacific Northwest forests and the Ecquadorian missionaries......both groups were heartbreakingly brave in their zealotry, stupid, and downright quirky.
My first time reading this entirely through.
I think I'd read it all in bits and pieces previously.
It's a classic, must-read for anyone wanting to stoke the flame of gospel missions in their heart.
Five men in 1956 gave their lives willingly for the hope of bringing salvation to the feared (though deeply loved) Auca Indians in Ecuador.
Written Elisabeth Elliot, newly widowed wife of Jim Elliot, the reader comes to know each missionary couple personally through their journals and recollections.
As Elisabeth concludes in her epilogue, "God is God. He does as he pleases.
Wow. I highly recommend making time in your life to read this book.
Elisabeth Eliot’s first memoir of her foray into the mission field recounts her husband’s and 4 fellow missionaries’ death at the hands of the native tribe they were trying to reach with the Gospel of Jesus Christ.
Or the missionary takes his technology and his Bible, things he’s gleaned from his own culture, and goes to learn a new language and live a new way.Part of the story I didn’t know before was the 5 men’s decision to keep secret from their missions supervisors their efforts to contact the Aucas.
Stunning. Full RTC
Though the message is powerful, this book felt almost too cursory. Maybe she goes into more bibliographic detail in another book, but I wanted more to the story! I am amazed by the missionaries resolve, even amidst doubt, depression, and little results. I can't believe the peace the five wives experienced and the joy God gave them after the death of their husbands. Oh to be so grounded in spiritual truths that even the most debilitating tragedies can be met with such faith!
I’ve been re-reading Through Gates of Splendor by Elisabeth Elliot along with my junior high English class, and TGOS is also the May selection for Julia’s Heroes of the Faith Book Club at Dark Glass Ponderings.This book tells the story of five young missionaries who accomplished what every Christian aspires to—they lived and died for Christ.
Today I’d like to focus on one lesson the book brought home to me.The story of these five men reminds me how perfectly God matches a life path to each personality He creates.
Five, who sacrificed everything they had on earth, in hopes of bringing someone new to God. The story is put down on paper by Elisabeth Elliot, the wife of one of those missionaries, who scoured the men's letters and journals after their death, to piece together the journey in its entirety.Jim Elliot felt a stirring in his heart which led him to the natives of Ecuador.
These five worked together for months while they tried to make friends with the Auca people.
I couldn't understand having that kind of faith in any god, especially knowing you were going to minister to a very savage group of people.
I learned a lot about the minds of missionaries and the dedication they have.
I am not well versed in scripture so maybe that made the read more challenging since it contained a lot of it but it also read easy in some parts thanks to many diary entries.
I know how the story ended but it ended to quickly and in too few details but they were fascinating details for sure.
This is the story of 5 missionaries who were martyred in the jungles of Ecuador in 1956 by a group of native Indians called the Aucas.
The story is written by Elisabeth Elliot, wife of one of the missionaries killed, Jim Elliot.
In the Epilogue, Elisabeth notes that a few of the Indians who had killed these men converted to Christianity several years later.
It was then that they discovered the men were killed out of fear that they were cannibals.
Much of the story is taken directly from the diaries kept by the missionaries.
- Jim Elliot
5 men risked, and finally gave, their lives to bring the message of God's salvation to a small group of primitively Ecuadorian Indians.
Each man was gifted in a number of areas, but gave up their worldly talents to spread the Gospel.
Subsequent to their deaths, their wives, and other Christian organizations continued to witness to these people.
In several years, many became "God believers." As a result, hundreds of people over the years have become believers.
The wives, although they made a great sacrifice, are all pleased to see how Christianity has spread in this tribe.
Better than I expected. While I was indeed longing for a good, old-style missionary story, this was more realistic than most, quite matter-of-fact indeed, without showing the missionaries as heroes as some others do. And the 1996 epilogue II is a wonderful summing up and evaluation, echoing Job and glorifying God much more than I expected, transcending the mere results of the witness of the martyrs in the evangelisation work.
A very inspiring story.I was particularly encouraged by Roger who when through 'a dark night of the soul' and thought he was a failure of a missionary. Yet God used him to amazing effect, not just to reach the Auca Indians, but to inspire people across the whole world!
An amazing account of the ministry of the five men that were killed by Auca indians in 1956. Inspiring and hard to put down. Although it is hard to understand why these men died, many people gave their lives to missionary work and were inspired by these men's testimonies.
One powerful book that God used to influence my perspectives on dating and ministry. Read while in college. A true classic!
Incredible story of five men and their wives who were sold out to Christ.
The fire and passion of these five men was evident from their introduction until they breathed their last and continues to blaze bright even today.
These men had the Lord’s heart beating inside them.
I was deeply convicted by the passionate zeal, gentle patience and unconditional love for the lost these men and their families had.
When the call went out for someone to send, each rose up and cried, “Here am I, Lord, send me.” Each man brought something different to their field but each had a servants heart and an unquenchable fire burning inside to be busy about their Father’s business.
They knew men could not live by bread alone, so they lived out God’s Word for them.
Jim Elliot, Ed McCully, Pete Fleming, Roger Youderian, and Nate Saint were working as missionaries in Ecuador in the early 1950's.
Through a series of events, the five came together to make contact with the savage Auca Indians.
They made contact in January 1956 and lost their lives as a result a couple days later.
I often felt that I was right there in Ecuador with the group.
It was Jim Elliot who said, several years before going to Ecuador: He is no fool who gives what he cannot keep to gain what he cannot lose.
Elisabeth Elliot writes the story of how her husband and four other men put bringing the Good News of Jesus to a remote tribe as their top priority. She uses excerpts from the men's journals and includes some of her own experiences. The men are brutally killed by the very people they were trying most to love. It is a true story that reveals the character of people who put serving the Lord even above their own lives.
A fascinating read about the 5 missionaries who in 1956 travelled into the Ecuadorian jungle to reach the Auca tribe. A tribe known for it's willingness to kill. Since the title includes in the description "The five missionary martyrs of Ecuador" the ending shouldn't take you by surprise.I would have liked more of the 'since that time' details added in at the end. But a good read which really challenges our understanding of what it means to really trust God and obey no matter the cost.
This was a very interesting story of five missionaries and their wives who worked with various tribes in Ecuador, until they were all killed. It gave great insights, not only into what kind of people they were to volunteer to do that, but what it was like to meet and learn to get along with various primitive cultures. I never want to go into the jungles to meet primitives, even stone age people, but I quite enjoyed the vicarious experience.
Splashed across the cover the cover of Life magazine in the 1950's was the story of the tragic deaths of 5 young missionaries at the hands of the very people they were trying to reach - the Auca Indians in South America. Years later, the wives of these young missionaries reached the very people who killed their husbands. 17 editions later, this classic work remains a story of love, forgiveness and hope.
