https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/736345.The_Little_Red_Hen_Big_Book
A little hard work goes a long way.
When Neo and I took it upon ourselves to read this story, we learned all about the hard work the little red hen undertook to keep the house running.
While no one wants to help with the chores, when a sweet-smelling cake emerges from the oven, everyone wants their share.
Neo got the moral from the story without my needing to inch him in the right direction.
Interesting that he picked it up, yet cannot think of one instance he might have been guilty of expecting without helping.
Cat, Dog, and Mouse like to spend their days being lazy and sleeping, which causes Hen to do all of the work around the home.
While gardening, Hen asks which of her friends will plant the wheat for her and all three of them respond "Not I", causing Hen to do this task by herself.
This process continues on throughout the story as Hen asks the others to do tasks for her, but ends up doing them on her own.
On top of an enjoyable story, the illustrations of the animals working and sleeping adds to the overall charm of this book.Classroom Use:I would like to use this book as a read aloud in a primary classroom.
The Little Red Hen is about a hardworking hen who receives no help from its other 3 lazy friends.
The four main character are the hen, cat, dog and mouse.
The book also has very colorful illustrations and making it appealing to younger readers.
At the end of the book the cat, dog and mouse are always helping with housework in order to evenly distribute work among the four.
The Little Red Hen is appealing to young readers due to the satisfaction of the story, the many colors in illustrations and the mixture of likeable and relatable characters.
The Little Red Hen will have you wanting to complete your to-do list by the end! The Little Red Hen is the hardest worker in the house. She is always doing chores and always looking for help! Would you volunteer to give up your relaxation time to help the Little Red Hen or would you stay laying on the couch watching the work be done for you? This book will teach one that you always reap what you sow! Enjoy!
"The Little Red Hen" is a cute story about a house of animals that live together.
Without help, the hen took care of the wheat until it grew full enough to be cut and milled into flour for a cake.
This was a hard lesson for the other animals to learn, but from then on out, they helped the hen with her work so they would not miss out on a potential reward again.I really enjoyed reading this story.
The repetition of the phrase "Not I" from the lazy animals reinforced the lesson that they learned: hard work can pay off later.
It is about an ambitious little, red hen who wants to grow wheat and asks her friends to help her.
Her friends give her the same response: “Not I.” Finally, it is time to bake the bread from which she grew the wheat and milled the flour.
Now it is time to eat and enjoy the bread and wouldn’t you know, her friends do wish to help.
The little red hen replies, “no, no I will do that.” And she did.You could spin this book in a couple of directions.
If you are teaching 2nd or 3rd graders, this book would be a great introduction for a food unit.
There is a great moral to this stort and I know your children will love it!Paul Galdone:In his mid-40s that he illustrated his first children's book.From 1951 until his death in 1986 at age 79, he illustrated and/or wrote more than 300 children's books.
Paul Galdone may be best remembered for his versions of traditional folk tales aimed at the picture-book crowd.
He loved to include small details that displayed his impish sense of humor — and assumed that young readers also would want to spend time looking for these special touches.
This book is great for early readers or young listeners because many of the phrases are repeated time after time again, developing phonemic awareness.
The Little Red Hen is a hard-working character who finds seeds, plants them, mends the garden, cuts the wheat, takes the wheat to mill to be turned to flour, and then bakes a cake and enjoys it all to herself.
Throughout the tale, the Hen asks for help but her housemates (Cat, Dog, & Mouse) are too lazy too attend.
The best thing about this book is that it can be interdisciplinary - used in mathematics to create word problems, physical education to evoke movement, and more.
This story is about a little red hen who lives with a dog, cat, and mouse who are extremely lazy and do absolutly nothing to help out hen around the house.
Hen is treated like Cinderella.
Throughout the story hen is preparing to make and bake a cake.
when the cake is finally done suddenly dog, cat, and mouse want to eat it, even though didn't help.
Hen said "since i made it by myself, then I'm gonna eat it all by myself." The others did not get one bite.
In conclusion, Hen always had eager helpers to help her from then on out!
This stay at home mom loves this classic children's story about a mama hen that always does all the work by herself and finally decides to reap all the reward by herself, too. This is a great story for children who naturally take advantage of their parents. Being appreciative and helpful are values that are not always natural and must be taught.
I read this for my little girl. She loves it because I do voices for each animal. I love this little book because it teaches something good about helping and sharing.
I really liked this book. I think it can show young readers how important it is to help out.
The Little Red Hen is badass. I love the message: don't feed slacker friends who don't do their share.I am suprised the Tea Party hasn't adopted this book as a "must read" for children. Hmm...
This is a book we have read over and over. Ellie can now read it by herself!....6/28/15Jacob read for November Pizza Hut Reading Challenge..krb 11/6/16 He rated this 3 stars
She asks the three if they will help sow the wheat, each says, "not I".
Through each stage she asks, if they will help tend the garden, harvest the wheat, send the grain to the miller, or help bake the cake from the flour.
Little Red Hen asks, "who wants to eat the cake"; each says, "I do." Then the Little Red Hen tells them all how she is the one that sowed, tended, harvested, milled, then carried the flour, gathered the wood for the stove, mixed the batter, and "all by myself, I am going to eat it" to the very last crumb.
A dog, a cat, a mouse, and a little red hen all live together.
However, they are all very eager to eat the cake.
The hen eats it (because she earned it), and from then on the other three are great helpers.This is an excellent book that teaches an incredibly valuable lesson about the helping others.
Finally, I respect how much the hen is committed to her love/ need for cake.This story is good for kids of all ages; it teaches them the value in helping others and being a good worker.
Another classic story, The Little Red Hen is one many adults can relate to.
Little Red Hen lives in a house with a dog, a cat, and a mouse who like to sleep all day.
One day, she finds some wheat and wants to plant it, first asking for help.
No one helps her, so she does it herself.
Her housemates WANT to share with her this time, but Little Red Hen says no!
I liked this story because my grandmother would read it to me as a child.
As an adult, I see the meaning much more now than I ever did as a kid.
The Little Red Hen is a classic story about teamwork (or lack thereof).
The little red hen decides to bake some bread from scratch.
She needs to collect the wheat, take it to the mill, grind it, and bake the bread.
she asks for help each step of the way, and nobody steps up to help.
At the end, everyone wants to eat the bread, but little red hen says, no!
Little red hen says since no one helped her make the bread, no one may help her eat it.
This book teaches a valuable lesson about teamwork and doing your share.
Title: The Little Red HenAuthor: Jenny GilesBook level: 2.0Book summary: There was a hen who had 3 little chicks. She need to make food and so she asked her friends to help. No one offered to help. However, when the food was ready, there were plenty of volunteers. Characteristic: traditional literature is the genre because it has been told and re-told for generations.Bookshelf Mentor Writing Traits: Ideas are the biggest trait because it focuses on a lesson to the readers.Classroom Integration: This story can be used to understand characters and their traits as either a mini-lesson or a full lesson.
Awards the book has received (if any): n/aAppropriate grade level(s): k-2ndOriginal summary: This Red Hen seeks help from other animals, but no one seems to want to help. She must do it all by herself, and therefore gets what she deserves! Original review: Great book about the importance of helping others as well as independence.1-2 possible in-class uses:1) To encourage independence in and outside of the classroom.2) To encourage lending a hand when someone needs it.
A cat, a dog, and a mouse lived in the same cozy house. The little red hen had to do all the housework. The little red hen took good care of them, and whenever there was work to be done, there were always three great helpers. This is a good book to show young kids that helping is a good thing, and you might get rewarded by doing so.
Super cute! I loved the chicken's expressions and the illustrations that accompany this classic tale. I have to admit to being a mouse, cat, or dog at times and enjoying the chicken's cake. I read this book because it was on my school's pillars of character reading list under fairness. It teaches an important lesson about helping out with the chores that you benefit from in order to be fair.
The little red hen lived in a little house with her friends - dog, cat, and mouse. She did all the work, so when she found grains of wheat and wanted help to make it into something she had to do it herself.
Classic fable retold time and again. Nice illustrations in this version of the book. if you do the work you can choose how you reap the benefits. Like the little red hen did. If you want the benefits but not the work too bad for you. That is a lesson many kids need to learn.
Chose this for my preschool storytime (for MLK we were using 'helping' as the theme). Had the kids and parents make animal sounds with me as we shook our heads 'no' and later nodded 'yes'. The repetition made it easy for everyone to participate. Classic folk tale!
Some books are timeless. This one is one of those.
Charmingly told.
Very good retelling of the classic passive-aggressive, codependent Hen who gives her lazy housemates their just desserts.
megan spring reading 2017, children's book, picture book, series, a folk tale classic, helping, friendship, bread, prek, kindergarten, first grade, second grade,
You don't work, you won't eat.
