https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/78970.A_Matter_of_Honor
Malo je reči da obožavam ovog autora i da sam pročitala sve njegove knjige... Sada ga u Srbiji objavljuje Laguna... I da po meni, spada u one pisce koji ne umeju da napišu lošu ili neinteresantnu knjigu... A dobar deo njegovih knjiga je i vrhunski ekranizovano...
My friend had never heard of Jeffrey Archer. I told her he lived near Cambridge and wrote bad novels. "But have you ever read one?" she asked. I was forced to admit I hadn't. On Christmas Day, I found this book tucked inconspicuously under the tree. I felt honor-bound to read it. So, now I know what I'm talking about, and I can give you a more nuanced picture. Jeffrey Archer lives near Cambridge. He writes appallingly bad novels.
This is the First Archer book I ever read. I was hooked after this one.
Well maybe it wasn't the title deeds exactly, but it was something along those lines, Herman Goring and a Swiss bank deposit box were involved, what more needs to be said (view spoiler)[ the bank deposit box was the best character, dramatic, sombre, and poignant by turns (view spoiler)[ not really, sigh.
So the one upside to this book was that I realised I lack the flag recognition skills to be able to cut it as an international man of mystery in the 1960s.I don't think that there is a sequel in which the Soviets have to be stopped from laying their hands on the title deeds to the White House.
So in my mind I thought about the time I was a child when I wondered what the adults were doing and what the fuss was all about.I liked the style of how Jeffrey Archer told his story and for the written word, sounded like Ian Hislop on the BBC television comedy panel show, Have I Got News For You. The character development of Adam Scott was spot on and you could imagine his accent to be similar to Ian Hislop.I liked the plot of A Matter of Honour and how you developed suspicions of all the characters.
Finished reading: October 21st 2014  “Adam took one hand off the handlebars and fingered the envelope in his inside pocket like a schoolboy the day before his birthday feeling the shape of a present in the hope of discovering some clue as to its contents.” (view spoiler)[This book was recommended to me by a friend who knows I like historical fiction and the thriller/mystery genre. And he was right: I always enjoy reading books set in the Europe of the last century, especially when they are rel
(view spoiler)[This book was recommended to me by a friend who knows I like historical fiction and the thriller/mystery genre.
An interesting read and recommended to those who enjoy historical fiction and spy thrillers in general.When the Soviets find out the original painting wasn't destroyed in a plane crash, all hell breaks loose.
And they start a frantic search in order to find the painting that has been considered 'lost' since the Revolution.
Will Adam be able to escape death and finally restore his father's honor?Even though it was an interesting read, I felt there was something missing to consider it as a pageturner.

There are two books of Archer that I have read more than ten times - Prisoners of Birth and A Matter of Honour.I think I personally connect to the protagonists of both books.I am a big fan of his work. I love courtroom drama and lawsuit thrillers. Nobody does it better than Archer. No offense to others who write under the same genre.
An excellent novel from one of my favourite writers.He writes such good original stories that have strong characters and believable plots.
(view spoiler)[ He develops from your average ex-military storybook guy into a torture-proof, super IQ, fully espionage trained character in the pass of a few weeks, meaning that all relation to the character is removed by around three quarters of the way through the book.It is not the worst book I have read, and it was an adequate charity-shop-time-killer for part of a long flight, but I would not give it - or recommend it - to a friend, and it will find itself back on a charity shop shelf rather than using up valuable space on my bookshelf in the future.
There is no way that there needed to be anywhere near the number of set backs that this book contained and as the novel went on these set backs were seemingly appearing at the end of every chapter and therefore lost their shock value completely.
I would have preferred the book if the chase throughout europe had been simplified to a more realistic level and some of the locations and people were developed more fully.
Also what was with the ridiculously pompous attitude of everyone British throughout the whole book?
It has been a while since I have read a Cold War mystery / thriller, and I was pleasantly surprised I enjoyed it seeing as how the Cold War is allegedly over and we know how it ended - but then again this is Jeffrey Archer we're talking about so it was worth a try.Needless to say, I was not disappointed.
In true Archer fashion, he quickly gets you into the heads of the characters - both the good and bad guys - and you can really relate to their perspective on life.
A most delightful book by Jeffrey Archer except for the torture of Adam at the Soviet embassy in Paris which is truly revolting.
Even the ordeal of physical torture Adam overcomes with his principle 'fitness is not in how fast you tire out but in how fast you recover'!So much about the Swiss bank security.
The bank in Geneva connives with the Soviet Central Bank's chairman to surreptitiously transfer millions worth of gold and precious stones left behind in its safekeeping by an ancient Russian businessman in 1916.Finally, after much adventure, the armature does beat the professionals of Russia, the US and England and survives inspite of not knowing whether the secret service of his own country is leaking his whereabouts to the Russian Romanov and manages to bring the icon back to England and disposes it off in the best manner possible.Delightful reading!
Just gone back to Jeffrey Archer after many years gap - forgotten how good he really is.
I think people dismiss him for his politics and past - but they really should read his books.
He is a very good story teller and an incredibly detailed writer.I loved this book (although I do all of them so far).
If the story had been true what a twist in history it would have been.
His characters are very believable.Now intend to work my way through all his books that i haven't already read.
This is an earlier novel by Mr. Archer.
It has a slow start about the KGB and bankers and a British Army officer (plenty of background).
The story has to do with an art forgery and a document hidden in the original: about the Russkies getting back Alaska from the Americans in some old deal.
The Americans and Russians really want this art and the British officer is the one who gets his hands on it first by accident.
There's a chase across France and a Russian KGB killer.
If you stick with it, getting past the slow start it's an OK read.
If you like DiVinci Code you will like this one.
A murder didn’t affect one, nor a torture because no character was engaging.
Hitchhiking as a means of hidden travelling for his hero doesn’t come readily to the author’s mind.
The author means the one big work.
It’s the kind of book if you put it down, you didn’t want to pick up again.
It’s a junk book, to be picked up at an airport for the flight and, as the author observed, by the time you realise how bad it is, it’s too late; you’ve paid for it.
It’s been well-researched, the kind of book my publisher might publish.
Good readEnjoyable book. Once again is there any truth in the tale. I couldn't put it down wanting to know what happens next.
A little slow to pick up, but once it got going it was an enjoyable Russian/British spy novel, with a fun plot line.
Thrilling. Captivating. A page-turner. A fantastic story in the typical Jeffrey Archer way. Highly recommended
Original Rating- 2.5/5A Matter of Honor is a hard-paced story of an ex-military personnel who comes across the adventure of his life where the Americans and Russians are continuously chasing him for he holds a very significant piece of art in which is hidden a contract between the two nations...
The suspense factor of the story is not very convincing.
The reader gets the idea about the property involved in the contract even before the author tells about it in the end.
It is a long-stretched book which is at times exhilarating but gets morbid at certain instances as well.
I usually read non-fiction but I enjoy a nice diversion now and then. Jeffrey Archer's storytelling prowess shines through in 'A Matter of Honor.' The plot's twists, complete with hair raising chases, political intrigue, and murder make this a fine novel to escape into -- and one that will keep you up well past your usual bedtime. I gave this book a four-star rating only because Archer leaves a couple of questions unanswered. This is a highly recommended read from one of my favorite novelists.
Nothing deep or thought-provoking here, just good ol' fashioned entertainment! Adam Scott inherits an old letter from his impoverished father. Reading the letter sends him on a "quest" to restore his father's honor and find his inheritance, a missing Russian icon stolen by the Nazis. Unfortunately, it's also being sought desperately by the Russians and the Americans (this takes place in 1966, so it's a different world back then) while the Brits are trying to keep them from killing Adam. Quite an adventure and some really good storytelling! A most enjoyable read!
This book reminded me of the kind of nightmare where one is chased by a monster and no matter what you do you can't shake it off. There are several twists and the "monster" has quite a few victims before the whole matter is resolved. It is clean and without graphic violence or offensive language in spite of the body count. It is set in 1966 England and Europe and involves a scenario that could have drastically changed the outcome of the Cold War.
This book is one of the finest you would find on the shelves. For the first 100 pages of it, it seems like an ordinary novel but after 110-120 pages, the book takes another turn and the chase starts. The next 300 odd pages are so damnn interesting that you would not want to keep the book down. I believe this is one of the best I have ever read !! It's a MUST READ for everyone.. MUST READ !!!
I enjoy Archer's thrillers, in spite of the fact they are illogical and the correct outcome is often a matter of luck. In this one, a unemployed ex British officer inherits an unopened letter from his father, leading him on a wild adventure with British, Russian and American agents chasing him across Europe.
This was a good novel that showcased Archer’s skill as a writer. There were some points in the novel that were not clear and this was the novel’s major fault. This novel may not have the complexity of other Archer novels, but given the high levels of his other novels, this may not be saying much. There are many authors that I may like, but Archer is one of a few that I admire.
It was my first Jeffrey Archer book....I was on holliday and had nothing to read. I was skeptical at first...I had never heard of him. But after I started reading I just couldn't stop....the plot kept me turning page after page,which hadn't happened in a while.
A timeless 1966 classic from Archer.
Absolutely gripping narrative.Highly recommended.
