https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/366427.The_Old_Devils
This novel is a story of old friends, married couples in southwestern Wales, and how their lives change when Alun and Rhiannon Weaver return to the country after Alun's long career in London.
Alun's as pure a "shit," Amis's word, as you're likely to come across in English letters.
Then there's Charlie, the book's purest alcoholic, who's been suffering lately from panic attacks, and his wife Sophie, the first old flame to succumb to slick Alun's inexplicable charms.
Structurally The Old Devils is a traditional novel; there is nothing new or even innovative about it.
I have to admit that I only read this because it is one of my last four Booker winners, not because I have any interest in reading Kingsley Amis.I suspect that both his writing and his sense of humour are acquired tastes that I will never acquire, and I really struggled to maintain any interest in its cast of ageing Welsh drunks or Amis's array of Welsh cliches. I don't think this one has aged well.
Abbandonato a pagina 226 di 344. Non si può dire che non ci abbia provato. Ma alla fine 'gna facevo più di sbronze e dialoghi balordi e chiacchiere insulse. Mi stava venendo la cirrosi epatica, non ho il fisico per questa roba.Via, si volta pagina e si cambia libro.

Does anyone really want to read a book about a lot of boring old farts getting drunk and shagging each others' wives? No wonder people were saying the British novel was dead at the time when this won the Booker prize.
Amis showed in 'Ending Up' how capable he was of writing dark humour into the vagaries of old age, making that alleged time of non-existence interesting and compulsive reading...
perhaps twelve years later, when 'The Old Devils' saw the light of day, he was sufficiently aged himself to be consumed by his lifetime of excesses.
Certainly 'The Old Devils' lacks polish and precision.
Can't old age be more like Betty White?
But where Updike's novel (much the superior of the two) is all about sex and love, Amis's themes are booze and adultery.
His couples, unlike Updike's, are all well on the wrong side of middle age; his setting, unlike Updike's picturesque New England town of Tarbox, is South Wales in the early Thatcher era, all closed-down pitheads and fake Welshness seen through a haze of alcohol and thin, freezing rain.Still, lovers of that grumpy unsentimentality in which the British tend to specialize as they grow older (and none specialized more successfully than Kingsley Amis) will find much to enjoy here, as I did.
It may, in fact, be one of the most boring books I've ever read.
I can't even bother to put it on my list of most hated because at least with, say, Atonement, McEwan had the decency to write a thoroughly despicable, self-absorbed horrorshow of a human being to act as narrator for that otherwise dull book.
Seriously, those were dull when we were IN high school, and everyone I know cringes when thinking back about that grating nonsense when they are a couple of years out.
E andavam à volta de essencialmente o mesmo: as particularidades do País de Gales; as pessoas não crescem ou mudam por aí além; a velhice não traz sabedoria; as pessoas de idade continuam a ter relações sexuais e a cometer adultério; nem todos os casais que se mantêm juntos durante anos incontáveis são felizes ou fiéis; uma vez um traste, para sempre um traste, independentemente da idade, entre outras (pequenas) variações destes temas.
Quatrocentas e tal páginas de nada mais do que isso, com "private jokes" sobre o País de Gales pelo meio cuja graça me iludia por completo e que, segundo li, nem são entendidas pelos habitantes daquela zona.
I tend to be sympathetic to characters who are aging, fat, and unlovely, since I'm sure this is my destiny as well, but this bunch is so tedious that I couldn't muster any interest. I kept waiting for the humor to begin, but it never did. They're all just moldering away in Wales, pickling their livers and feeling sorry for themselves. I feel like David Lodge has written these characters, and written them far better. I'm astounded this won the Booker.

What’s not to enjoy in a book that contains the sentence ‘She was said to have been found once telling the man who was laying the carpets about eohippus’ (referring to an unstoppably talkative character)?
If that doesn’t make you smile, don’t bother with this book.
If it does, find a copy and enjoy.Kingsley Amis’ writing (at this, later, stage) combined humour and an acute sensibility to the joys and disappointments of life.
I met a lady recently who told me her intention to read every Booker Prize winner.
At that point I hadn’t read this book, by a writer I generally like, but if I had then I could have used it as an example.
“So-so” is the description I’d go for.‘The Old Devils’ follows some Welsh couples of a certain age as they drink, copulate and ruminate on the nature of being Welsh.
I grew up in Wales and yet don’t recognise the nature of “being Welsh” as depicted in this book.
It could be that I grew up in a totally different generation and not in the valleys.
By the time I was done this novel, I was pretty sure that I had somehow acquired cirrhosis from it.
It is not a likable book, mainly because there are so few characters to like in it, supposing you can manage to distinguish one from the other by the time you get through it.
I suspect it was intended as a sort of Lifetime Achievement Award to Kingsley Amis, because there's no way this is a better novel than Margaret Atwood's The Handmaid's Tale, nor Robertson Davies' What's Bred in the Bone, nor Kazuo Ishiguro's An Artist of the Floating World, all of which were shortlisted in 1986, when The Old Devils somehow won the prize.
Late last year PB mentioned that she had read a Kingsley, and so when I saw the mint condition hardback of The Old Devils at the Brattle, and noticed it had been a Booker Prize winner in 1986, I did not resist.Kingsley is a fine and fluid writer.
Which of course it does, given that we cannot press pause and do a re-take.A question arises as to how Kingsley treats his female characters.
Definitely worth your time if the themes are of interest, or if one is intrigued by winners of the Booker Prize.
It is written with the same style and excellence which everything that I've read by Amis at this point has been, and the subject matter—which is simply put, the social, romantic, and national friction caused by the return of an aging 2nd rate intellectual to his hometown in rural Wales—is admirable in putting a serious focus on a period of life which receives short shrift in literature.
Digression: why are there so few good novels dealing with aging?
One of the greatest novels I've ever read.
Hilarious, honest, joyous, so truthful about humanity, both the best and the worst of us, and so very sad at times.
I've read pretty much everything by Kingsley Amis before, fiction and non-fiction, but upon reading "The Old Devils" for a second time, I was just astounded at how utterly brilliant it is.
I couldn't sleep all night after reading it, laid awake thinking about the characters, the beautifully written dialogue, everything about it.
It's always feels like a miracle to re-discover that human beings can create art of such astounding and lasting beauty.
Es decir, el premio a una trayectoria y no a la obra en cuestión (y cuando quizá había mejores cosas en la competencia).En este caso Amis escribió con precisión, pero de una manera en la que me fue imposible encontrar una profundidad bien comunicada.
Las vidas en declive de este grupo de matrimonios sesentones en Gales resultan incluso algo anodinas y los supuestos momentos de comedia son dos o tres en el libro (aunque admito que sí me reí en todos).
Al final resulta de esos libros que mientras lees la mente termina divagando y uno deja de poner atención.Pero algún día voy a leer Lucky Jim y espero que la experiencia sea distinta.
After a moment, something like a harsh bark broke from the lower half of his trunk, followed by a fluctuating whinny and a thud that sounded barely organic, let alone human.—p.66That's Alun Weaver, Britain's best, or at least best-known, living Welsh poet, and the central character (primus inter pares) of The Old Devils.
Maybe I was just not in the mood for this book but I certainly wouldn't have called it a comedy and I'm amazed at the quote on the back that calls it a 'bloody funny lovely bloody book'.Admittedly there were a few good bits, so rather than pointing out more faults I've found a little quotation that was amusing; Gwen is explaining to Rhiannon why Charlie drinks so much:'The thing is, Charlie's got nothing else to do and he can afford it.
I often struggle to catch the humor of written satire.
We spend this novel in the company of several Welsh couples who have been socially linked for decades.
Excessive drinking, adolescent posturing, massaging old memories and complaining about the physical indignities of the aging body seem to dominate the lives of these figures.
Much of the old age, the drinking, the snarky observations about others in the social group made me chuckle, but I too often could only catch them in the rearview mirror.
But there were also a great deal of satire around Wales and the celebration of Welsh culture which I did not understand.
This book is about as sour as they come, but likable despite itself. The humor obviously helps; Kingsley Amis's wit is exceedingly sharp and occasionally laugh-out-loud funny. He spares none of his characters, the least of which a cad of a hack writer named Alun Weaver. But there is warmth in this book, it is just subtle and fairly scant. In the end there is enough that there is humanity here, instead of just satire.
Quite funny in a subtle way, this is the story of three old men who meet daily at the Bible - a pub in their small Welsh community - who have their lives rocked when a former student of one of the men returns to the town with her "shit" of a husband, who proceeds to seduce each of the old men's wives, then meet them at the Bible the next day. There's some lovely scenery depicted, and Faulkner-like long sentences, but it's mostly humorous watching three drunk old men discover what's going on.
I enjoyed the book partly because Amis was an acute observer with an unkind eye who wrote with understanding and insight but mainly because it was and is an accurate portrayal of both the Welsh (and English for that matter) middle class. It is funny for those who know the breed and yet he conveys the desperation lying underneath some of his characters with a measure of sympathy.
I really had to struggle to finish this book and resented most of the time spent reading it. The book had some merit but it really wasn't for me at this time. It was a huge disappointment as I so enjoyed Amis' Lucky Jim.
This is one of my first times reading Kingsley Amis. "The Old Devils " is a acute and hilarious romp through the adventure of growing old in a rapidly changing world . I'll place Kingsley Amis on my top shelf of favorite satirists with Jonathan Swift, Rabelais, Evelyn Waugh, and Andy Borowitz.
For a comedic novel, not very funny.
For a Booker Prize winner, lacking in literary quality.
I have read ten or fifteen Booker Prize winners, and though I have enjoyed some more than others, most have felt more worthy of praise than this rather meandering tale of unflinchingly unpleasant dipsomaniacal Welsh folk old enough to know better.
It made me wonder if this was more of a case of ‘Kingsley Amis is an acclaimed author, let’s give him a prize’ as opposed to ‘this book is outstanding enough to be a prize winner’ (like, perhaps, Ian McEwan and the uninteresting ‘Amsterdam’).
Some of the set-pieces in the novel are vivid though; mainly those featuring the poet Alun Weaver (who cannot escape the long shadow of a Dylan Thomas figure; the dead poet Brydan).
And Amis's informal Anti-Welsh League (membership confined to the Welsh) is a marvellous conceit.
But I can see why it won him the Booker Prize in 1986, since the overall impression it leaves, at least with this reader, is of Amis conjuring a series of blundering, drink-sodden, self-pitying male "dinosaurs" faced with extinction.
In that sense, the novel was ahead of our current cultural climate.
This is no Lucky Jim. It is just as excruciatingly vivid, just as memorable, and just as viciously honest in its portrait of far from perfect humanity.
The hilarity I know and love from Lucky Jim is also tempered by the harsh realities of age.
This is widely considered to be Amis's greatest work, and although I personally preferred Lucky Jim because of its transcendent moments comic despair, I understand why people respond reverently to The Old Devils and the simple struggles and small but significant triumphs of its charmingly bumbling characters.
One funny passage addresses changing demographics in a way that is the opposite of what you might expect; one of our protagonists is annoyed when the "Bengali Take-Away" that he was counting on as probably the only decent place for a midday meal proves to be serving the stereotypical British "meat and two veg" because the only actual South Asian cook in their employ works in the evening.Amis relies mostly on thoughts and dialog without a lot of poetic exuberance but the passages where he takes time for descriptions of South Wales landscape and villages are warm and affectionate.
