https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/235753.The_Birds_Fall_Down
Approaches to writing fiction vary as much as tastes in reading it: that's a way of recognizing that The Birds Fall Down disagrees with some readers, in large ways or small.
Spoilers, in other words.A personal note: My recollection is that I discovered this novel during one of many trips with my mother to Half Price Books, a used bookstore, in Dallas, Texas, and that she suggested either this work in particular or at least Dame Rebecca West's writing in general.
*********************************************4 stars out of 5. I may return, sometime and revise this rating.This book has spun me around many times during this reading. And because it has been the first book by Rebecca West that I have read, I’m not certain of my qualifications to judge her as a writer just yet. But she is clearly a master of her craft. As an American from the Deep South, I found her use of the English Language (UK) rhythmically difficult for my reading customs. And that is not
I may return, sometime and revise this rating.This book has spun me around many times during this reading.
And because it has been the first book by Rebecca West that I have read, I’m not certain of my qualifications to judge her as a writer just yet.
As an American from the Deep South, I found her use of the English Language (UK) rhythmically difficult for my reading customs.
That said, by the end of this work I was amazed by her timing and her plot structure.
And it is also difficult to think of any character in this book that is admirable.
We are all bowmen in this placeThe pattern of the birds against the skyOur arrows overprint, and then they die.But it is also common to our raceThat when the birds fall down we weep.Reason's a thing we dimly see in sleep.--Conway Power, Guide to a Disturbed PlanetAt the turn of the 19th/20th Century, Nikolai Nikolaievitch Diakinov has been exiled by the Tsar, and he lives in Paris feeling himself disgraced.
Laura Rowan is his 18-year old granddaughter, half English and half Russian.
That is both its advantage and disadvantage depending on one's likes and expectations.
Several of the women seem not to like men much.
There are intimations of the husband and wife having a strained relationship, as the wife departs for France with her daughter to met her elderly Russian Father.
He was a senior government official and the story slowly opens out in to a wider political story taking in the crisis in the Russian socialist-revolutionary party after the Azef scandal.
Enjoyable as all this is, from the point of view of reading a novel rather than experiencing these kinds of things, the Azef affair - when a Russian revolutionary terrorist group was led by a Tsarist secret agent who in order to maintain his cover organised the assassination of minor members of the Tsar's family and leading figures in government - this all with the connivance of the government, was far odder than a believable novels tend to be.
A wonderful writer West.
This is a lengthy novel about belief, betrayal, deception, ideals, but it's also a coming of age story.
Events take place primarily in France although the novel is about Russia and the political climate at the turn of the century.
Laura Rowan was quite an unusual heroine for the period caught up in events beyond her imagination or control.
Quite a few twists and turns with the plot and enough spies, double spies and subterfuge on offer to keep the most jaded reader engaged.Finished the novel a few days ago but the story and writing continue to linger.
The developments pit a Russian revolutionary against a Russian reactionary with a dialectical discussion thrown in for good measure.
There are passages where the discussion, usually from the grandfather of our heroine, about the differences between the Russian and the English soul become tedious but other sections fascinate like a good whodunnit.
Overall, the fascinating historical background to the story, the sang-froid of the main character and the uncertainty about whether she has reached the right conclusions, kept this reader engaged to the end.
This book won't be for everyone, but I found it amazing. The story is developed primarily in a few long conversations, which were so fascinating that I read the book in a very short time. Intrigue, things that are hinted but not outrightly stated, even conclusions the reader draws that the protagonist remains unaware of. Details, precise crafting....wow, this was a real find. I am eager to read more of Rebecca West based on my experience with this one.
Whenever we are in danger of being carried away by extravagant idealism and lofty speculation, Laura jumps in and effectively pricks the bubble.Laura takes the train to Paris with her mother Tania, to visit her wealthy grandparents, exiled from St. Petersburg two years previously as a result of high political maneuvres.
Kamensky, the count's devoted right-hand man, is at the last moment prevented from joining them by a trivial incident.Soon after the train gets under way the carriage is invaded by an aristocratic but scruffy Russian who subjects the count and Laura to a long and involved narrative.
The book is built around three great monologues: Chubinov's revelations in the train, the count's sublime meditations on his deathbed, and Kamensky's apology.
Rebecca West has several books on the list and I look forward to reading them all.Set in time during the fall of Tsarists Russia and the rise of communism, the novel is about exiled Count Nikolai living in France.
Nikolai and Laura set off on a train ride and meet a man that will forever change the course of their journey.
There are many themes to this novel.
Throughout the novel there is an underlying theme of loyalty and who to trust.
I was engaged throughout, invested in the relationships and curious to see how it would all come together.
Life can be difficult at times.
Moving forward can at times appear to be an uphill task sucking up all the energy in us.
That is how I felt when I started this book.
I had to push myself to read it since I myself bought it and I didn't want to see my money going to waste.
The book is about trust and betrayal.
Vasili elaborates why he believes that Kamensky is Gorin the spy.
He tells us biz past experiences with him which leads us to believe that indeed Kamensky is a spy.
I think it will be amazing ...........this is what my friends told me........
Tania's decision to take Laura to Paris to visit her grandfather, Count Nikilai Diakonov, means that Laura will unwittingly become a witness to the momentous events leading up to the Russian Revolution...Through a vivid canvas layered with intrigue, conspiracy and murder, Rebecca West has created a story that is at once a family saga, a political thriller, a philosophical drama and an historical novel.I think this is a review from 1986.
Laura is a perfect protagonist.
But, I think, to really appreciate its artistry, I'd need to read it again.
I have collected a number of Rebecca West's books since I discovered her two years ago. She is my favourite author of political historical thrillers and commentary. Each time I re-read her works I am appreciate her intelligence of the intricate plots and machinations of our political systems. She speak of these systems in all their aspects including family. She has a playful and deep sense of humour; gently or sharply apparent through the dialogue or narrative. Her works will always keep me coming back for more. If this is one of your interests, I highly recommended her works.
Did like this, but some elements of the whole conspiracy plot were confusing, what exactly was the point? What had set this latest plot in motion? and how did the identity of the state police spy suddenly become evident.
But, despite this, I ended up enjoying the book -- some beautifully detailed descriptions and even some laugh out loud moments (e.g.
I've never read anything quite like it, maybe because I've never read a Rebecca West book before.
When they are hard, they are probably dealing with things they do not understand.
She often did it herself, but had hoped that she would grow out of it.”“Human beings were never so exquisite as the things they made.”
Interesting novel that stays with the reader for a long time afterwards...interesting because it first appeared in 1966 but seems to belong more in the Victorian tradition, defying the contemporary dogma of creative writing classes. It 'tells' and doesn't 'show' for much of the time, and the plot and dramatic action occur in lengthy conversations. Yet it works nonetheless. It's an intriguing thriller, really, and has a very deep and atmospheric sense of Russia on the edge of revolution.
A moving readA story about a girl who happens to leave her childhood behind and becomes embroiled in a political plot most foul. I was not expecting to be taken by this book, until about half way through when the intrigues of the story found me. Russian spies, terrorist plots? Who can say no?? And all from the point of view of a proper young lady.
what a perfectly adequate novel with a perfectly depressing ending hidden as a happy one (think 'beauty and the beast')truth be told, this book was neither bad nor good, just right there on the point when you can't think of anything wrong nor anything exceptional--perhaps a hundred pages shorter and it would not have felt like such a chore at times
Reminded me of Henry James "A Portrait of a Lady" and then I noted that Ms. West's first book was "Henry James, A Critical Biography" - aha! Made me curious about the real conversation the book is based on - the one that resulted in "the cool-headed Lenin found the reins in his hands"
Intricate, with a compelling slow-paced, gathering momentum; a study in paranoia, obsessions, betrayals, God, politics, identities.
Incredible book!!! Long conversations! Great conversations!
She died in 1983.I checked this book out because the one I wanted to read isn't carried at my city library and I was too lazy to go to the county library.
It had a little of everything: a spy story, fact-based fiction, humor, religion, morality, philosophy, history, culture...I think the author really loves England, Russia and France - it comes through in her descriptions.
If someone described it to me, I would probably have said I wouldn't like it, but I gave it a shot and I really enjoyed it.I will definitely stop by the county library and check out the original Rebecca West story I had marked to read.
They were characterized by the confusion of good and evil, of imagination and obtuseness, of delicacy and coarseness.
A race of pre-Greek giants commit huge crimes.
Life is boring, except, of course, when it's not, in times of upheavals, revolutions, intrigues,crimes, and perlustration.
As a conversation, the story is rather long and contrived, as a tale it is a description of uprootedness, exiles who do not know who will be exterminated next.
An exile can get confused even about the seasons.

The writing just flows from beginning to end.
The narrator is the daughter of an English politician and a Russian aristocrat.
I first got to know Rebecca West by reading her book about Yugoslavia, Black Lamb, Grey Falcon.
I read that book shortly after my father died, when I decided that I needed to know more about the country of his birth.
The book, Black Lamb, is high on most lists of best non-fiction of the twentieth century.
It has come to be a Gold Standard for travel writing.
For about thirty years, I've made it my mission to read really good non-fiction.
Rebecca West wrote some marvelously talented works.
But she was not Dostoyevsky.
She attempted to do too much here, and so only 3 characters are truly given life; that's a major problem when a novelist is trying to create an epic.
The story-telling is erratic.
Little rhyme or reason is given for character's actions.
Nonsense side plots, if one can even call them plots, come in and out, as if West was writing stream-of-consciousness, and her own subconscious was distracting and yanking her off-track.
Still, she's Rebecca West, and it's at least mildly interesting to read her thoughts on Russian politics.
Mildly.
So while this is clearly the point in Rebecca West's career when she was too interested in real world events to write actual fiction, thus making this less a story and more a lot of interesting conversations about political theory, I love this book SO much. Laura Rowan is so funny and reacts to everything like a real person would. And underneath all that talking there is a real, compelling, even terrifying story there. I want a miniseries of this. BBC? PBS? Now is your chance. Let's cast Felicity Jones and do this thing.
3.5 stars. I liked it, but sometimes the narrative grew a bit confusing as not all events were happening in real time, which caused confusion when things did begin happening in real time. It felt like I was reading quickly through the book without making much progress towards the end, which was a bit of an odd sensation as I was interested in the plot.Espionage, betrayal, double agents and the Russian revolution lingering in the background. This is an exciting, if lengthy read.
Rebecca West is the most underrated author I've seen on goodreads. Her books have very few ratings, but I just love them. By far the diamond in the rough of the 1001 books to read before you die list.This one did get tedious and convoluted at times, but overall was very detailed, interesting, and extraordinarily well-written.
A suspenseful story set in the period preceding the Russian revolution. Pretty good. There was one section that seemed to drag on for a little too long, but beyond that it's an enjoyable historical thriller. And it's by Rebecca West, so it has that very well written super-verbose style.
