https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/131871.The_Portable_Blake
I will be currently-reading this until the day I die.
This has additions.
the morning peeps Over the eastern steeps, And the rustling beds of dawn The earth do scorn.
to the vault Of pavèd heaven, With sorrow fraught, My notes are driven: They strike the ear of Night, Make weak the eyes of Day; They make mad the roaring winds, And with the tempests play, Like a fiend in a cloud, With howling woe After night I do crowd And with night will go; I turn my back to the east From whence comforts have increased; For light doth seize my brain With frantic pain.
That being, not only was I taken with the famous poems, but ones I'd never heard of before such as "Soft Snow." Blake really does have a unique voice with rich rewards for the reader at times and such a complicated world-view peeking even through such familiar poems as "The Lamb" in Songs of Innocence and "London," "A Poison Tree" and "Tyger!
Yet he was also deeply anti-reason, a man who'd rant against any who'd try to prove the Earth isn't flat, let alone the likes of Newton.
Fantastic. his prophetic books should be animated.
The same dull round, even of a universe, would soon become a mill with complicated wheels...'If any could desire what he is incapable of possessing, despair must be his eternal lot.'The desire of Man being Infinite, the possession is Infinite & himself Infinite.'He who sees the Infinite in all things, sees God. He who sees the Ratio [rationality and naturalism:] only, sees himself only.'Therefore God becomes as we are, that we may be as he is.' (Kindle ebook locations 978-987)From the 1946 Introduction by Alfred Kazin:'...
Seven hundred pages is a whole lot of Blake and more than most people probably need.
the Songs of Innocence and Experience and some other "verses and fragments," also his letters where Blake is maybe trying extra hard to sound like someone from this planet.
I think the excerpts from "The Prophetic Books" would have benefited from some explanatory footnotes.
The only illustrations in here are black and white pages from "The Book of Job" and I think it would have been better to maybe have less text and some more of the illustrations.
I'd like to think that would have made some of the text more understandable.
I'm counting this as completed even though I didn't read it cover to cover. I read all of "Young Blake," "The Prophetic Books," and pieces of "Art, Money, and the Age," and "The Old Blake." It's great to actually read so much of the work that inspired the decadence, passion, and excess of poets like Ginsberg that came later.I'm sure I'll revisit the other pieces later, Blake is fascinating, but nothing but Blake for over 700 pages is a little much for me.
I first read Blake in my early twenties, confused, mesmerized and, finally, in awe of the sheer brilliance of both his writings and his art. His early poems have stayed with me ever since, though I always shied away from his later, complex works as "Milton" and "Jerusalem." It is worth buying this book not only for the selection of Blake's work, but for the magnificent 55 page Introduction by Alfred Kazin that is an essay of respect and deep understanding.
Good stuff. He's a little out there, and reasonably mysterious, but it's good. I like the imagery, that's the best part of Blake's poetry. Also, his ideas on thoughts on humanity. It's not romantic or sublime though, not the best poetry I've read, but solid nonetheless. The best poetry is when someone is able to accurately reflect feelings through words and phrases. Blake is more of a myth maker and religous poet, a lot of metaphor and meaning, not enough feeling for me.
I've only scratched the surface of William Blake's writing, and I visited the William Blake exhibit at the U of U's Museum of Modern Art and was blown away. As soon as I clear up a little reading time... we'll say sometime in the coming century, I'm gonna read the hell out of this book. Because he writes about hell, see... It's a funny joke. It is!
Was Blake a visionary or just a whacko? It really doesn't matter because his impassioned poems underscore his claim that "without contraries there can be no progress." Blake insists that we look at both sides of the story -- even when it's unpleasant. Try to get a look at the beautiful watercolors Blake made to go with virtually all of his poems.
William Blake is one of the poets that has most influenced the Mytho-poetic movement to which I consider myself to be a member. He is very famous for his: Proverbs from Hell. His poetry, his ideas and his vision are driven by what we now know as: "Crazy Wisdom." A must read for anybody who like to think "Outside the Box" and who is willing to go beyond ...!
So this guy wrote maybe three good poems, and they have a 700+ page book of his collected works? What a whiner. Half his poems are just complaining because he can't get laid. Helloooo! Maybe girls like poets whose poetry scans? Even his best (most famous?) poem "The Tiger" can't decide if it's iambic or trochaic tetrameter.
This book is really interesting. Blake must have been quite a character when he was alive. Hmm. Anyway, along with his poetry and selections from his "Prophetic Books," it also contains a short biography and some other interesting tidbits of information.
I don't know if I fully appreciated the depth of Blake's poems when I read them in college. I'd like to reread them sometime and become re-aquainted. Philosophy, religion, allegory....his poems pretty much have it all.
love.
My go-to book whenever I want to look up a Blake quote or just want to read a few stanzas of his poetry. One of my all-time favorites...
Like so many of my books, this one is a "currently-reading" -- I can't claim to understand Blake, but admiration is 9/10s of ownership. Or valor. Or the law.You pick.
Like all loved poetry, one never really finishes reading it.
It fun trying to figure out William Blake.
Some good stuff in here, but mostly the verse. His "Prophetic Books" and essays a bit too dense for my tastes.
I love this book, not only for Blake's poems, but for the strikingly beautiful artwork that accompanies particular poems. He did them himself. Must have.
Like Poe, I cannot imagine my life without William Blake. I love his writings, they speak to your soul. I love them enough to have had "Eternity" tattooed on my back... 'nuff said.
I don't get it but Blake is awesome.
