https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/28308.My_Name_is_Aram
The stories don't have much of a plot or action, even character development, but they are easy to read.
Saroyan tells us about poor Armenian immigrants in California but it's never depressing because of his mix of colorfulness, warm humor and disappointment.Aram is a sweet protagonist, but the best moments in the book are when he's in interaction with other characters.
The supporting characters are more interesting than Aram and they make the book so dynamic and cheerful.
This is a story about his childhood, but not necessarily about him growing up.
The narrator of the tales, a young Armenian-American named Aram, is a boy of nine when we first meet him in The Summer Of The Beautiful White Horse.
Plus, I thought the entire scene with the horned toad, a creature Uncle Melik had never seen before, was priceless.The book is filled with wonderful people, love for family and friends, humor and even some wisdom here and there.
The phrase 'poor and burning' was used by Aram's Uncle Khosrove ("a man of furious energy and uncommon sorrow") to describe any person or situation that he felt was incredibly sad.
Uncle Khosrove had a friend, a sad and very quiet Arab man.
یکی از جذابترین بخشهای سفر، بخصوص اگر شهر مورد نظر نسبتا کوچک باشد، بازدید از کتابفروشی و زیر و رو کردن کتابیهای آنجاست. این کتاب هم ماحصل یکی از همین گشت و گذارهاست. تا پیش از این نام سارویان در یکی دو مقاله و شعری از بوکوفسکی (شعر تباهی) به چشمم خورده بود و شناخت چندانی از آثار این نویسنده آمریکایی ارمنیتبار نداشتم. معذلک کتاب را صرفا بخاطر همین شعر بوکوفسکی خریدم. با خواندن چند سطر از کتاب به وجه طنزآمیز بودنش پی بردم و چون معمولا از داستانهایی با درونمایه طنز لذتی نمی برم، خواندن چند داستان
این کتاب هم ماحصل یکی از همین گشت و گذارهاست.
تا پیش از این نام سارویان در یکی دو مقاله و شعری از بوکوفسکی (شعر تباهی) به چشمم خورده بود و شناخت چندانی از آثار این نویسنده آمریکایی ارمنی‌تبار نداشتم.
مع‌ذلک کتاب را صرفا بخاطر همین شعر بوکوفسکی خریدم.
با خواندن چند سطر از کتاب به وجه طنزآمیز بودنش پی بردم و چون معمولا از داستان‌هایی با درون‌مایه طنز لذتی نمی برم، خواندن چند داستان ابتدایی کتاب با دل‌زدگی و پیش‌داوری همراه بود.
Having heard many negative things about Saroyan and his writing ability, I avoided him for years; but when I began reading the first story in this book I realised that I was destined to become a fan.His work is realistic and tells of poor Armenian immigrants in California but his style is upbeat and colourful, never depressing; and although his treatment of even the most sombre themes is unashamedly sentimental, it isn't maudlin.
Saroyan's language is pared down and simple but his rhythms are delightful and infused with a warm humour.The writer he most closely resembles to my mind is Ray Bradbury, but without the fantastical element.
I definitely intend to seek out more of Saroyan's work.
How often can one say they read a book with their name in the title especially when their name is Aram? I have read this book many times and love it. There is a simple joy and kindness in Saroyan's words and it comes through on each page. I have to admit that, growing up, I was much like the Aram in the book and it is fun to remember those times.
Որ Սարոյանը բարի է ու բարի ու բարի ու բարի ու բարի ու բարի ու էլի բարի, ու իմաստուն, ու շատ իմաստուն, ու բարի իմաստուն, ու բարի իմաստուն՝ տարօրինակ ու սիրուն ու զվարճալի բեղերով, չես զարմացնի։ Բայց որ հոգու խորքում նույնքան չարաճճի է, որքան բարի ու իմաստուն է ու զվարճալի բեղերով, այ սա արդեն ։) «Արամը» այսպիսի Սարոյան է։)
Το μικρό και συμπαθητικό αυτό βιβλίο περιέχει δεκατέσσερις ιστορίες με πρωταγωνιστή και αφηγητή τον Αράμ, ένα παιδί που ζει με την τρελή οικογένειά του στο Φρέσνο της Καλιφόρνιας.
Ουσιαστικά πρόκειται για μερικές από τις παιδικές αναμνήσεις του ίδιου του συγγραφέα, που ξεκινάνε από την ηλικία των εφτά χρόνων το μακρινό 1915 και τελειώνουν στην ηλικία των δεκαεφτά το 1925.
Ο μικρός Αράμ είναι ένα καλό μα και σκανταλιάρικο παιδί και μας περιγράφει τον κόσμο γύρω του.
Στην βιβλιοθήκη μου έχω ένα ακόμα βιβλίο του συγγραφέα, το μυθιστόρημα "Ανθρώπινη κωμωδία", που είναι και το πιο γνωστό του.
لطالما أحببت تلك الموهبة التي تتجلى في قدرة المؤلف الكتابة بنفس طفولي في هذا النص هناك كائنات لذيذة فيها حماس طفولي ونصوص إنسانية ذات اتصال مباشر مع القارىء لا تظنوا أن آرام يختلف عنكم عن أطفالكم فآرام لا يحب الذهاب إلى المدرسة وآرام يحب المقالب المضحكة ، ويتمنى لو يكون أكثر شجاعة مما هو عليه حقا أمام أصدقائه !
يستطيع أن يبقيك أرام على خط متوازي مع الدهشة تلك الدهشة التي تأتي من البراءة البراءة التي تكون قادرة على إحداث مفاجأة المفاجأة التي تجلب الابتسامة الساخرة هناك براءة تنتشر في النص وهناك سحر غير مرئي ..
I enjoyed My Name is Aram almost as much as I enjoyed The Human Comedy.As I said, Saroyan has a very unique way of writing his novels.
This book is structured in a way so that it seems more like a series of short stories.
However, most of the best moments in the book are when Aram is interacting with the supporting characters.
It’s like the book is a photo album, with each chapter being a lovely snapshot of life.
Bookoholics' 2016 Books from around the world Armenia theme.My Name Is Aram is a collection of stories about Aram's childhood as a first generation American boy born to Armenian parents. The setting is the early 20th century. I did not expect this frankly. I read it nonetheless and enjoyed some parts of it. Overall I do not understand why this book is praised so highly. My favorite story was about the poor burning Arab; I felt it had the most depth and substance of all. I would love to read for other Armenian writers.
It can if it is written by William Saroyan.
The offspring of the Old World who has lived, loved and absorbed with all his pores the New World, blends in a beautiful and colorful mosaic all the pieces of his Old and New essences.
If you want the oriental wisdom, read My name is Aram, if you want to remember your foolish and crazy childhood read it equally, if you want to discover a part of the old armenian people, uprooted from their beloved homeland and thrown into an unfriendly country, start knowing the big Garoghlanian family, their past and their present.
Aram Karaoğlanyan (William Saroyan)’dan sıcacık öyküler...Amerika’da doğmuş, büyümüş yazardan bambaşka topraklarda geçse de, Anadolu’da bir yerlerde geçtiğini hissedeceğiniz öyküleri...Yudum yudum, yavaş yavaş okumanız için...
I reached for this book because I was thinking about stories that I had loved in my junior high years, and I remembered some of Saroyan's stories about a boy growing up in a rural area during World War II.
His stories are a little odd, yet deeply American and very human.
He writes a fair bit about what seem like minor, ambiguous incidents in his characters' lives.This book of short stories is based on his memories of growing up near Fresno, Cal. between 1915 and 1925.
The older boy has stolen a white horse which they ride around at night so that no one can see them.
My copy of this book was published in 1940.
A series of numbers into the hundreds, and sometimes lines drawn through words--like wo/man (which almost makes sense,like the reader is breaking the word down syllabically or something), or between two words like "Then" and "he" for no apparent reason.
There's always choreography involved in writing-style--as far as when to drop a line or start a new paragraph, etc.
So was this reader counting paragraphs according to his or her own technique, as distinct from Saroyan's?
Saroyan's writing envelops and tugs you, and the bonus puzzling inscriptions throughout only added to this crazy reader's enjoyment.
I grew up in Fresno in the early 60s, and I recall my Armenian friends, their families by that time well established in the city’s fabric.
These stories have the aspect of folk tales: exaggerated, with tricksters and wisemen, all propelled by simple motivations and simple desires.
These stories’ earnest good heartedness have the ability to make one smile or laugh, and at the same time they inspire a vision of universal good will.Some time soon I will read Saroyan’s longer work The Human Comedy.
If I had to describe this book in three words, I think I'd choose the word  kindness ,  funny  and  truthful :-How can you talk if you you don't day anything?
I said.- You talk without words.
We are always talking without words.
- Well what good are words, then?
- Not very good, most of the time.
Most of the time they're only good to keep back what you really want to say, or something you don't want known.
- Well, do  they  talk?
I said.
- I think they do, my mother said.
مجموعة من القصص القصيرة المرحة والممتعة يكتبها الكاتب الأمريكي من أصل أرمني  وليام سارويان   وفيها يتحدث عن مواقف من طفولته مع عائلته أو مواقفه في المدرسة أو عن حياتهم في المجتمع الأمريكي وأُعجبتُ كثيراً بقصتين قصة الهندي الأمريكي والقصة الأخرى التي يذكر فيها بإنه سمع وهو في التاسعة إحدى المعلمات تقول للمشرف وهي تتحدث عنه : يمكنني القول بأنه أحد شعرائنا في المستقبل .. أرأيت ؟ سيكون كاتبا .ثم أصبح فيما بعد كاتباً وشاعراً بارعا نالت عدداً من أعماله جوائز قيّمة ..وأتسائل هل كان لقول المعلمة هذا الأ
مجموعة من القصص القصيرة المرحة والممتعة يكتبها الكاتب الأمريكي من أصل أرمني 
  وليام سارويان 
 وفيها يتحدث عن مواقف من طفولته مع عائلته أو مواقفه في المدرسة أو عن حياتهم في المجتمع الأمريكي وأُعجبتُ كثيراً بقصتين قصة الهندي الأمريكي والقصة الأخرى التي يذكر فيها بإنه سمع وهو في التاسعة إحدى المعلمات تقول للمشرف وهي تتحدث عنه : يمكنني القول بأنه أحد شعرائنا في المستقبل .. أرأيت ؟ سيكون كاتبا .ثم أصبح فيما بعد كاتباً وشاعراً بارعا نالت عدداً من أعماله جوائز قيّمة ..وأتسائل هل كان لقول المعلمة هذا الأثر الكبير في تحديد مسار حياته أم أن الأمر كان مجرد مصادفة.
My Name is Aram is an account of William Saroyan’s life from 1915 to 1925 in Fresno, California, told in fourteen short chapters, each discussing a different event or experience. Aram Garoghlanian is a curious young boy, and his curiosity often leads him straight to trouble. We are introduced to his Armenian family, his friends and those that live in the same small-town city.http://thenovelworld.com/2009/11/02/m...
Sirk hikayesi güzeldi, son hikaye nedense kanıma girdi."(...) İhtiyarı aldattığımı ve eski halime döneceğimi zannetmiştim ama çok geçmeden hakikaten mağrifete nail olduğumun farkına vardım. Otobüs Salt Lake City^den ayrıldıktan sonra henüz on dakika geçmemişti ki sağa sola ve her şeye inanmağa başlamıştım.  O gün bugündür her şeye ama her şeye inanırım.  "William Saroyan benim için yakın zamanın en güzel keşiflerinden biri...
Perfectly charming stories and wonderfully illustrated by children's book artist Don Freeman. This collection of little vignettes capture an extended family living in simpler times, but not necessarily easier for adults or children. The school stories were particularly engaging and had a timeless quality. Each story had a message and Saroyan's style is unique.
It was fascinating and refreshing to read Saroyan's perspective as an early 20th century Armenian-American and stories about America and Americans that perhaps don't get much representation from that time period (other immigrants, Native Americans). His style is very colloquial and unpretentious--very charming in its old-fashionedness.
This is a little jewel of a book. The stories don't have much in the way of plot or action, and it's as easy to put the book down as it is to pick it up again. But, the story-telling itself is lovely- funny, innocent, sometimes melancholy, often poetic.
I first read this many years ago. Its gentle humor in these short stories about the boy and his immigrant Armenian family makes me smile.
The first story "The Beautiful White Horse" is on my top five story list of all times. "A suspicous man would believe his eyes instead of his heart." Loved it!
One of these takes place when he and his friend leave school after class starts to go "help out" and hang out on the day the circus comes to town.
Aram usually doesn't go to school at all on circus day, but on this particular day he had forgotten, so his friend Joey came to get him out of class: ...One day Joey came tearing into the classroom...ten minutes late, and without so much as removing his cap shouted, Hey Aram, what the hell are you doing here?
But Aram still says he won't do it unless his friend Pandro will sing with him.
Gelelim en güzel Saroyan kitabına...
Özellikle "Usül Gereği" açıklamalarını çok sevdim.
Aras'ın kitap tasarımlarına dair belki tek itirazım, sayfa yapısında margin'in çok fazla tutulmuş olmasıdır.
Neyse bunlar tâli konular, kısaca 2017 benim için Saroyan ve Aras Yay. yılı olarak kapandı.
Bu kitapta Saroyan'ın en sevdiği öyküler* yok!
Ama benim en sevdiklerim var.
:) * Nar Ağaçları: Başka bir coğrafyada yaşamak zorunda bırakılan insanların başına gelen en acıklı hikâyelerden biri.* İçinde Şiir ve Başkaca Her Şey Olan Eski Moda Hoş Bir Aşk Hikâyesi: Adından da anlaşılacağı üzere, herhalde gezendeki en güzel isimli öykü oluyor kendileri.
Ama hepsi hakkındaki görüşlerimi yazmayayım buraya.
Gerisi de okumak isteyen dostlara kalsın...* : Saroyan'ın en sevdiği öyküleri öğrenmek isteyenler için bir dipnot verelim.
'Me llamo Aram' está formado por catorce relatos que son como viñetas de la infancia y primera adolescencia del propio Saroyan, así que el hecho de tener un personaje que unifica todas las historias le dan a este libro la unidad y la regularidad que eché un poco de menos en el anterior libro de Saroyan que leí, 'El joven audaz sobre el trapecio volante'.
Los cuentos de 'Me llamo Aram' son como pequeñas viñetas en forma de comedia que están llenas de vida.
'Me llamo Aram' es un libro tierno y divertido, pero no creáis que es sólo esto.
William Saroyan wrote this book about the enthusiasm of his youth and his time in or around Fresno, California. The book catapulted him to fame with stories that had been published in such places as the Atlantic monthly and were popular probably because they were about the simple life that appealed to people in a simpler age -- the 1920s. He wrote them largely through conversations between Aram and his friends or the adults that surrounded them, usually his relatives. Story by story he mentions
The book catapulted him to fame with stories that had been published in such places as the Atlantic monthly and were popular probably because they were about the simple life that appealed to people in a simpler age -- the 1920s.
There is uncle Jorgi and cousin Vask.
Each character in the stories carries a beautiful sketch in simple words, so that more people read this book to benefit by it in terms of understanding those different from themselves in that they recently came from a far country unlike their own.
An excellent book, an absolute must for kids 8-12 and not only. A candid, sometimes romantic, mostly funny look at America between the two World Wars. I was most impressed by Saroyan's ability to write equally well for adults and kids (I had seen The time of your life, a play he had written in 1939 - and for which he won a Pulitzer the same year he wrote My name is Aram, 1940).
حكايات لطيفة، أشبه بمذكرات ويوميات خاصة عن صبي أرمني اسمه "آرام" كتبها الأمريكي وليام سارويان.. وهي سيرة الكاتب نفسه أثناء طفولته في الولايات المتحدة.. كتبت ببراءة الطفل ونظرته حول الحياة والمجتمع. من القصص المميزة " السيرك" و"لوكوموتيف". قصة لطيفة بكل مافيها من طرافة وحوارات وبراءة
