https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/300932.Lion_of_Ireland
MINI REVIEW This is a tale of history and legends as it focuses upon the origins of Brian Boru, the Charlemagne of Ireland who unified most of the Emerald Isle against the Norsemen and more importantly the bickering of petty Irish lords.
It's on the slow side at first as we focus on Boru's early years but stick with it and it will pick up.
There's a great deal of focus on the political intrigues, the bigger than life presence of Brian Boru and Boru's inner thoughts.
Since our understandings of Boru are quite limited the author gets to take a creative license with some of the legends.
IMHO a book that fails so badly on several accounts-characterisation, historical accuracy, writing style, treatment of female characters, etcetera....Lion of Ireland is the story of the one of Irelands most famous High Kings, Brian Boru of the Dal Ceis.
A pragmatic and resourceful leader ready to form alliances with Viking rulers in order to destroy native Irish opposition to his tenure of High King of Ireland?
The Vikings are evil, depraved, avaricious, cruel and savage raiders who live to pillage, rape and enslave the native Irish and its up to Brain to end their reign of tyranny.
In a time when Vikings were invading Ireland, tribes were warring and life was hard, it was highly improbable that a 12th born son would ever become King of Ireland.
And yet Brian did the impossible - united the whole of Ireland for the only time in history.
His vision, his determination and his passion for his country and his people were incredible.And yet, Brian was alone in his personal life and had no one that he could turn to for the love and devotion he longed to have, except a Wiccan woman who had his heart but was impossible to have because of his Catholic faith.
DNF, circa pg 150. Sorry, but I'm bored with the episodic style & Brian's one-note Gary Stu routine. It's a shame; there are some well-written passages, but there's no depth to most of the characters & the time gaps are really annoying. The first couple chapters were intriguing, but since then it's been an onslaught of Things Are Doing Things. I feel like I've been slogging through a mire of words without making any progress.Bye-bye. I got no interest in forcing myself through another 400 pgs.
Most people don't realize that the legend of King Arthur has a real life counterpart in Brian Boru, "the Emperor of all Ireland" at the beginning of the 11th century. This is a fictional account of his life based on what's known of him. Well researched and a compelling read, full of action and romance.
If you are interested in one of the most fascinating figures in Irish history, or just want another good book about the Viking Age, I highly recommend Lion of Ireland.The novel tells the story of Brian Boru, perhaps the greatest Irish king who ever lived.
Rich with natural resources and monasteries laden with silver, Ireland had lured the Vikings for two centuries, but their reign ended in large part because of Brian Boru.The story begins when an eight-year old Brian, the youngest son of the King of Dal Cais, discovers his homestead burned and his mother and two of his brothers slain by Vikings.
I feel spend and exhausted; my emotions were tossed back and forth, every which way as I followed Brian from early childhood to the end of the book.
I just want to sit and bask in the glory of it all - how it made me feel.
Reading this will only make you want to yell at the same decibel level in support of Ireland, for whatever they do.
(But my goodness, they do seem to fight a lot for no good reason in this book).Brian is as beautiful and flawed a character as ever there was one.
She managed to "hue" slightly closer to the historical bone in this one than in some others and still deliver a good fantasy adventure.Brian Boru is a favorite "character" of mine.
It's much like the line from The Man Who Shot Liberty Valence, "when the myth becomes fact, print the myth".Just enjoy this larger than life story of Brian and Gormlaith (not to mention Deirdre and Fiona.....and Ireland).
Like many I find Celtic and Irish myth and history touches me somewhere in my heart.
This is another tragic Irish tale where love and evil intertwine to strike down a larger than life heroic figure leaving us with a sense of the "might have been".I recommend it.
I’m not at all familiar with Irish history and learned a lot while reading this.
I especially loved the beginning of the book where we saw Brian in his youth and watched him become one heck of a warrior - a force to be reckoned with.
I was head-over-heels in love with the story at this point.
Llywelyn started to move us through the story at a quicker pace, jumping through the years and only just touching on certain events and battles.
All-in-all, though, this was a wonderful read and a fantastic history lesson.
I spent the last several days reading Morgan Llywelyn's 'Lion of Ireland.' I couldn't put it down and so I did little else than read. This is the saga of Brian Boru and his struggle/fight to unite all of Ireland under one king. Would that I could give this book more than 5-Stars. If you love history told by a great storyteller, then this is a must read.
3.0 stars. I liked this book but really thought I was going to love it. While well written and having a great larger-than-life main character, I never really connected with the story like I thought I would. This is one I may try to approach again sometime down the road and see if my opinion changes.
You know you're in for a tiresome piece of biographical fiction when adults are taken aback by the power inherent in a child who defies them.
My actual rating is more like 2 1/2 stars. I enjoyed reading it mostly.The writing was excellent, the author does have a way with words. However, it was a bit long and around page 400 I started to skim. I got tired of reading about battles, strategies, tired of trying to keep track of who was friend or foe to who and why. Recommended to those interested in history and Irish history in particular, battles, strategy.
It was too long, that was my biggest problem, and I like long books if they can hold my interest, but I got tired of it by the time Gormlaith became a major character.
However it was interesting and did a good job of telling a multigenerational story with a lot of viewpoints across a characters' entire life.
I like how it had diversity in religion (Christianity, Irish paganism and Norse paganism) and gave intros to the backgrounds of new characters before the protagonist met them - rather than them just coming out of nowhere.
They are sometimes said to have had the body of a man and the head of a goat, according to an 11th century text in Lebor na hUidre (the Book of the Dun Cow), or to have had one eye, one arm and one leg, but some, for example Elatha, the father of Bres, were very beautiful.
In that book it tells of the crowning stone going up to Ireland and into Scotland where there was a replacement in the form of the Scone stone.
A really beautiful tale about Brian Boru, Emperor of the Irish.
I had never heard of this larger than life King, but Llywelyn shows how a smart leader can become a legend.
There were some elements of the story that got old (some of the relationships)- but I was impressed with how readable the strategic battle plans were.
I don't do well with gratuitous violence, so Llywelyn hit a perfect balance of capturing the bloodthirstiness of Irish vs Norse warfare, without going overboard on bloody details.
Despite never knowing Boru before this book, I feel a tremendous loss after finishing this novel.
I need more Brian Boru!!
Outstanding Historical Fiction!Morgan Llywelyn has done a fantastic job in this novel.
She does outstanding research and builds a framework that will have you walk away from this book having a very good understanding of the history of Ireland in terms of its small kingdoms constantly warring with each other to where outside invaders can waltz in and mop up.
If history had been different then, perhaps today's situation and recent past of continued fighting and occupation would have been different.If that was all there was to offer in this situation, however, then Llywelyn's book would not stand out from much of the common fare in historical fiction.
There is conflict on the battlefield and off it, a powerful momentum that kept me turning the pages breathlessly, all written in Llywelyn's earthy poetic style.Although this is a work of historical fiction, it would probably appeal to fantasy fans as well.
It has many of the ingredients of the best fantasy: a strongly-drawn world, big themes, and larger-than-life characters.Note 1: the blurb on the cover (at least the one I got) made the book sound like a bodice ripper.
There are some sex scenes, but they are not gratuitous.Note 2: Llywelyn has also written Brian Boru: Emperor of the Irish, which is the children's version of the story.
I learned quite a bit about Irish history, which is one of the things I love to find in my literary choices.
I confess to skipping through some of the battle scenes and the formal court hooha, but for the most part, this book held my interest and kept me reading too late at night.I loved the main character, Brian Bóruma mac Cennétig, the Irish king who ended the domination of the so-called High Kingship of Ireland.
Brian first made himself King of Munster, then subjugated Leinster, making himself ruler of the south of Ireland.
I really enjoyed this historical fiction novel that delves into 950-1050 AD Irish history and the uniting of the little fiefdom's into one country by Brian Boru.
The book starts off kind of slow as the author tries to paint a picture of the life of the high nobility of that time period.
When she begins to describe the Viking invasions, the book becomes hard to put down.The historical record is quite sketchy on this time period, but Llywelyn does a great job of bringing this era to life.
Hmmm,a great story which was paced well and covered a lot of ground, which appeared to be well researched. However although Lywelyn's develops a solid structure to tell an epic story, she writes some ferociously clunky dialogue. Clients engage constantly in long winded exposition laced conversation, that are as a subtle as an instruction manual. The characters are broad 2 dimensional cliches acting as lifeless avatars for to move the plot rather than living breathing individuals. The only thing that got me through the book was listening to Clannad for atmosphere and picturing Boru as Roy Keane. Approach with caution.
Brilliant, the characters leap from the pages and instill themselves in your soul with all the passion and power of the Irish people. This is history and myth, truth and fiction, brought together for entertainment and to tell a message. The story of Brian Boru is one of anyone desiring with a fervency of the spirit to build a place of joy and prosperity, knowing at times that to do so begins with pain and battle. This is a story of humanity and in it is found a great deal to love and hold.
My intro to Morgan Llywelyn was with this book, and I've learned a lot about Celtic history as I've continued to read her books. This is a lesser known historical look at Ireland, focused on the one-time unifying king, Brian Boru. Many of her other books also reference him, so it's helpful to have this one as background before moving onto some of her others. Also note she has an interesting series about the N. Ireland/Ireland issues starting in the early 1900's, that are really interesting.
The Lion of Ireland is one of my favorite works for fiction. This is my second time through this book. Morgan Llewelyn is one of Ireland's treasures with regard to Irish historical fiction. She brings to life the history of it's people and the land on which they lived and struggled to make their own.
Fascinating account of Brian Borou, historically speaking the first king of Ireland who united the country, and divided it into North and South.It is quite dull at times because it is textbook historical but for the most part is well paced and well written to keeping your interest. It makes me want to research more on the characters we're introduced to because they're so believable.
Would of been 5 stars if not for the repeated sex scenes.
Lion of Ireland reads like a power fantasy, with a weird mixture of the traditional larger than life and macro view of myths, with the author's style of depicting Brian's life with a sense of homeliness and micro scale.
Whereas I'm not necessarily opposed to authors changing up the narrative per se (especially if it fixes the myth's plot holes), here it felt like the author was trying too hard to create the "zero" of zero to hero, and I think the Vikings could have been introduced as antagonists in a simpler fashion.As for this being a power fantasy, this is first prevalent in the second chapter with the Vikings, where their halls are overfilled with gold and women who were enslaved but now willingly sprawl themselves across their captors, yet both gold and women are nothing compared to the glory of battle.
She fell in love with the legend of Boru, making him the tallest, most cunning, most skilled, most sensitive, most conflicted, most ad nauseum archetype inhabitant the emerald fields.
I found Red Branch better at filling out the supporting cast; Lion of Ireland suffers somewhat by wanting to constantly drown any hint of development of other characters by dragging the story back to Boru.
Perhaps Llewelyn felt more constrained by the historicity—being all legend, Red Branch wouldn’t have that constraint.
I don’t think boredom can ever enter into the review of a Llewelyn Irish tale.
It is not the type of story I would normally seek out.
But once I got past the initial character name confusion, the story became really good.
This book was epic.
All his struggles to unify Ireland, and the battles that came with it.
There were a few loose story lines that almost felt "added" but they didn't detract terribly.
Somehow there is a second book in this "series", not sure how that's going to work out.
But if you are in the mood to read some pretty good historical fiction, with some great battle scenes, then give this a go.
First things first, the writing in this book is impeccable and gorgeous so I am absolutely open to reading more Morgan Llywelyn in the future.
That being said, I found none of the character to be interesting or entertaining and I wasn't ever invested in the plot.
So positives aside this book just wasn't for me.
There were definitely some consent issues which made me hate the main character.
It was a very mediocre read in my mind, but if you prefer "epic" style historical fiction I would recommend this because it is very very well written.
