https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/93797.The_Unlikely_Spy

The Brits were aware that the Germans knew about massive concrete structures being placed in the waters off the French coast, an operation necessary to create a false harbor that would alleviate the planned invasion.
The Germans believed that the concrete structures were going to be used for a large antiaircraft structure and not a false harbor.Given the number of imbedded German spies in Britain and the U.S. and given the massive number of people working on the proposed invasion plans, it is a miracle that information did not manage to leak to the Germans.
them” mentality, to which the James Bond/Jason Bourne camp of spy fiction frequently resorts.
It really is a historical novel, I guess, because the facts about WWII on which the book is based are true.
It certainly is more interesting learning about WWII by reading this novel than a history book!
The other part of the story was based on the Allies plan to give Hitler false information through German spies so that he would think that the invasion of France was going to take place in Calais.
Loved learning about this history through reading this novel.
Good story.
Occasionally a little too much R-rated sex for me (which I didn't think was necessary for the storyline), but otherwise a good book.
I'm gonna keep this short. I despise this long, boring snore of a story. 0 of 10 stars
(a) A van drives through a blacked-out village in a rainstorm at night.
(b) Small spoiler warning: A teenage girl falls in the North Sea in a rainstorm at night.
She pops up once, gasps for air but "swallowed a moutful of seawater instead." She starts sinking.
A nearby boat sees her disappear for the second time and now "there was nothing, no sign of her at all." A man dives into the water, and pops up again to remove his life vest.
MAJOR SPOILER WARNING: In the end, you find out that the thrilling storyline you have been following is nothing but a pawn in a bigger scheme.
Vicary is a spy catcher - he does his job well until realizing that a small group of German sleeper agents trained by Abwehr officer Kurt Vogel are still in Britain.
Catherine is an attractive woman and a top notch spy who has been a sleeper agent in London for six years - now she has been activated by Vogel.
The characters in the book are well drawn, they each are painted in shades of gray -the German spies have some redeeming qualities and the English MI5 agents are not depicted as saints doing G-d's work.
She has been assigned a target whose intelligence she is to obtain.Then there are the men and women of the Allied intelligence forces whose are in the running to stop the Nazi secret agents and they will have to do an Herculean task to find out who they are chasing and how this sleeper agent will be used to obtain the secrets the Allied forces do not want to nazi high-command to know.
And there is of course the intrigue of the Nazi High-command where Himmler and his friends want it all and most certainly distrust anything the head of the Abwehr Secret service Admiral Canaris will have to offer for information.
The Unlikely Spy  involves one of WWII's most guarded secret: the invasion of Normandy and D-Day!
Much like Follett's brilliant 'The Eye of the Needle', Silva uses the central theme of D-Day's invasion as the fabric for his masterful spy story.
Silva uses the construction of 'floatable' harbors, as the pivotal secret the Allies must keep from our maniacal Nazi devils.
The British characters are also fantastic, specially 'Alfred Vicary' a University professor who gets 'suckered' into the war machine, and ends up working for British secret agency MI5.
Even German spies were portrayed as 'humans', trapped in the German-Nazi war machine, and some were even coerced to spy for the villainous regime.
Todos sabemos acerca do Dia D, o ataque dos Aliados na Normandia que contribuiu para acabar com a 2ª Guerra Mundial.
Mas a questão central do livro é: como é que os Aliados enganaram os Nazi?
Como os fizeram convencer que o ataque seria em Calais em vez na Normandia?
Achei prazeroso e inteligente o esquema de espionagem para enganar os Nazi como se fosse um jogo de xadrez, sendo a melhor parte de acompanharmos os passos, a ação e os sentimentos dos espiões (embora estes sejam fictícios), e a escrita do autor é bastante acessível e fluente.
After I read Moscow Rules, I checked Silva out and went back to the beginning of his career to start with this one.
It takes place in World War II and we'd just seen the Tom Cruise movie so this fit right in with what was on my mind.
Since it takes place in England, it took me back to my stay there many years ago, and the references to Suffolk made me homesick for Great Bealings, Woodbridge, Suffolk (back when Evan was 2, 3, and 4, Bobbi).
I'll be reading more Silva novels.
Flat-out THE BEST World War II spy novel that I have ever read. If you only read one WWII spy book in your life, make this one it. I read it in three days and didn't want to put it down. Simply tremendous.
As you're reading, you need to decide who is the most unlikely spy!The game itself is summed up in this exchange ..."It's just credits and debits?
God, but we should have burned people like you at the stake a long time ago." ..."You don't really feel that way, do you ...
I'm not sure what you are, but you're not real.""You can say that now, but I know you miss it all desperately.
You need people like us.
The country needs us."--Dan Silva, "The Unlikely Spy"
When I started this book, I was hoping for a small break from some of the non-fiction I had been reading.
He did a lot of other things right, so it was easy to forgive him for those, especially when you consider this was his debut novel.Every few months, Rick Riordan (author of the Percy Jackson series), recommends some books that he has enjoyed on his website.
So, thank you, Mr. Riordan for steering me towards this book.
If you’re looking for something new to read, find out what authors are reading; they usually have good taste.
This is a standalone spy novel set in WWII.
He does an excellent job of setting the atmosphere, and provides a clear image of what life was like during the end of WWII in both Britain and Germany.
What I never realized prior to reading this, was the importance that England's MI5 (Counterintelligence, as opposed to MI6's intelligence/espionage), and overall the importance of the spy game during WWII.
What Britain lacked in military assets (tanks, planes, etc), they more than made up for in with their intelligence networks.
I've read and enjoyed a few of Silva's books before, but they have all starred his Mossad agent/art restorer, Gabriel Allon.
This book is not part of the Allon series, but nonetheless a well-written historical thriller about all the information and disinformation leading up to the Normandy landings.
We listened to it in the car on 15 disks!The Unlikely Spy is a spy novel written by Daniel Silva, set during World War II, and published in 1996.
Specifically, the book has a backdrop (a subset of Fortitude referred to as Fortitude South).
I was going to give the book 4 stars until things began to unravel for me in the end.
SPOILER ALERTThe whole story line, told in thrilling fashion at times, loses its impact every time Silva has a character say that the whole war can be lost if they don't catch this new ring of spies.
Call me a prude, but it felt quite gratuitous and unseemly.Finally, in the twists and turns revelations at the end, we learn that all the hard work of the one character we really care about was for naught, as he was just a pawn in a much larger espionage game.
This was in contrast to Vicary who didn't allow that to get in his way because of a greater mission.
One: Even though the characters are well developed the author leaves their perspectives for long stretches during the story which gives the book a hodge podge feel.
Therefore, they decided to tell the Germans about them with fraudulent leaks thru Jordan?
But Catherine Blake was stealing actual information from Jordan at the beginning?
When he discovered this he fed the Germans false information thru Catherine Blake and managed to confuse them in the same way.
I last read a Daniel Silva spy-thriller in May, 2012.
Silva has been favorably compared to Ken Follett and Robert Harris as a writer of spy fiction.The Allies are preparing to build the Mulberry Harbors designed by the British to be artificial harbors for unloading men and materials from ships to support the Normandy invasion.
If you ever travel to Normandy you can see remnants of these artificial harbors in Arromanches and its museum.The action goes back and forth from the U.S. to Germany to England where Canaris’ sleeper network of spies awaits, and then carries out, its mission.
There are double agents and double crosses to satisfy the most avid WWII spy-thriller fan.
Some delicious parts of this book involve how it leaves you wondering.
It was unclear what role the "Broom" character played and whether he too was a double agent, or perhaps a triple.
Basil Boothby too made me wonder to whose allegiance he actually played.
There are hints to the future Soviet infiltration of British intelligence, and "Broom" may in fact be a reference to Blunt, Burgess, Philby or a composite of the five.
Was it the American who may have been duped according to Basil Boothby's explanations, or was it the main character, Alfred?
History, psychology, tradecraft, some judgement of character.
It is certainly a book that anyone who is a spy/espionage enthusiast should have read, or at least have on their to-read list.
It is a masterful work of historical fiction.
It shows a great deal of research and actual historical detail.
At times it tends to get bogged down in detail and side-story.
One of its greatest strengths is its detail in creating characters, which ironically is a weakness because it does tend to plod at times in character side-stories.However, all-in-all, this is a really wonderful story, far better than the Ken Follett novel, Eye of the Needle.

Daniel Silva craftily selects a university professor of European history as his protagonist, the Unlikely Spy. He's brilliant and turns out to be up to the task.
Historically based, the story moves between various locations in the UK and Germany during the build up to the Allied Invasion of WW II.
MI5 and 6 stop at nothing to keep the location for D Day secret including the deception of their own teams, and likewise the Abwehr will do anything to learn the secret.
They both realize the winner of this spy vs.
spy battle, will win the war.
I picked this up by chance at my used book store.
I don't like Daniel Silva's Gabriel Allon thrillers so at first didn't even look at this, but when I saw it was a WW II thriller about German spies in England I bought it and was pleasantly surprised.
I could not even find fault with the writing considering the genre.
A good read--and his debut novel too.
A pity he doesn't drop Gabriel Allon and write a few more stand alone novels.
A reread of Silva’s hugely successful 2003 standalone debut thriller which, after all these years, is as good as new and 80% in, still earning five stars. My one quibble is that some of the pages are wasted on long stretches about secondary characters. But the unlikely spy herself is stunningly created and the tradecraft is about the best any espionage author has ever written. A real pleasure to reread.
*forever thanking my crazy book fair shopping for more than 1 of his books* From not knowing his writing, to one of my favourite autorsAt first I wasn't really convinced, but as I kept on going, I couldn't put it down. 200 pages until the end and I was feeling anxious for having so little left to read. 4,5 just for not getting me from the start and for naming a portuguese man Hernandez
I was slightly disappointed with this one. Too long, but then I read this in the hospital - I fractured a hip and just got home, today.
"The Unlikely Spy" is a rapid paced thriller based on the the building of an artificial harbor from concrete before the Normandy invasion in WWII.
The book is about the Allies attempt to cover up the true plans for WWII D-Day's invasion of Normandy in 1944.
The story centers on a history professor, Alfred Vicray who is recruited by none other than Winston Churchill himself to work for the British & give Hitler false information through German spies regarding the invasion of France.
The historically based novel is like a high stake game of chess between British & German intelligence service during the build up to the Allied Invasion.
Silva is one of my favorite writers and doesn't disappoint on this early novel. It's very well researched and written, but I have two minor complaints:1.) The novel was a little too long, with some unnecessary detail and character development;2.) Way too many gratuitous, overly descriptive sex scenes, something Silva has avoided in his later Gabriel Allon novels.Again, the positives far outweigh the negatives and I'd happily recommend this novel to spy-fiction enthusiasts as well as WW II buffs.
This is an AWESOME spy novel! A WWII pre-D-Day thriller, some of it is fact based and most of it entirely plausible. The characters are well developed and largely fascinating and the intrigue and action breathtaking. It can get a touch complex at times but the author does a good job at keeping the reader in the book and engaged. I don’t think I’ve enjoyed a thriller this much since Frederick Forsyth, and that’s the ultimate compliment from me. Strongly recommended!
I want to be a spy...well except for the killing! That’s all I can. Book started off slow, but it built up and kept me interested till the end. I had a little bit of a scare... the book I bought was missing the last 20 pages!!!! Immediately went to the store to replace and finish it! Definitely recommend!
