https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/395220.Zami
aunt Audre intimidated me at first.
she was a stern, moody, melancholy woman who had lived a life of so many ups and downs.
this was a woman with so much empathy and understanding for the people around her.
this was a lady who had felt pain in her life and would be able to understand my pain as well.
she told me stories of that life and those stories were filled with poetry and passion.
she told me about her own weaknesses, her own cruelties, and how she was able to move past them and to forgive them, to forgive herself by understanding herself.
I did not know this was a book about love.More than anything, more than about New York City in the '50s, more than being Black and gay and poor and female in that uneasy time, more than about the sensuality of food and the precise pleasures of style, more than about hustle and poetry and Audre's fraught relationship with her mother and the longing for an unknown home, for Granada and Carriacou, it is about loving women.
My new favorite book. Lorde tells all the secrets I was too afraid to tell in language more eloquent than my dreams.
I went into this book knowing very little about Audre Lorde other than she was a black, lesbian poet.
And yet this book spoke to me in a way that rarely happens - more than other books and authors that probably easily get lumped in with Lorde (Maya Angelou, Toni Morrison, Alice Walker, etc.).Lorde wrote about being an outsider.
But I have always been an outsider in my own way, and I could relate to Lorde's story even though we have very little in common.
It's sort of like how as you get to know people and share stories, sometimes stories repeat themselves because that's just how it happens.
Audre Lorde's beatiful autobiography of her child- and early-adulthood. She's been prized for her "sensuality" in writing but this is no chicklit - her account of the lesbian bar scene in 1950's America will fascinate anyone interested in these forgotten pockets of culture. After reading it, what most amazed me about her was her unpretensiousness and her willingness to expose herself completely. Few writers have been so insightful when talking about themselves.
It is learning how to stand alone, unpopular and sometimes reviled, and how to make common cause with those others identified as outside the structures in order to define and seek a world in which we can all flourish.
And this fact is only threatening to those women who still define the master's house as their only source of support.
Very easy five star rating. This is phenomenal. The language is beautiful and the exploration of her identity as black, female and lesbian is fascinating. Seriously, go and read it. It will make your heart sing.
I really wish I could teach this one day, but because I don't live in some sort of fantasy utopia I have to recognize that no PTA would ever leave me unscathed for choosing a book that talks so candidly and so beautifully about homosexuality, abortions, and loving blackness. It's a shame because I know that as a high schooler I would have enjoyed Zami infinitely more than the musty old fodder by dead white men I was assigned.

If I could wrap myself in a book and hideout forever, I'd do so with this book. Mother Audre has the most gorgeous writing style.
"We're both going to make it because we're both too tough and crazy not to!" And we held each other and laughed and cried about what we had paid for that toughness, and how hard it was to explain to anyone who didn't already know it that soft and tough had to be one and the same for either to work at all, like our joy and the tears mingling on the one pillow beneath our heads.Have you played the privilege game?
But she came through and she's managed to keep that "soft" part of herself intact, that vulnerability that makes it all worth it in the end.
Especially in the latter half of the book, wherein Lorde invents 1000 different ways to say she loves a cavalcade of women who, by the end, I truly couldn't tell apart.
I can appreciate the craft at work here, and that Lorde has a talent for language and is probably a great poet, but I just couldn't find a way to care about her life.
I don't think her perspective is as unique as she thinks it is, and I couldn't see a justification for about 50% of the excessive details of her minutiae.
As the great Joy Behar says, "Who cares?"
This reads like a wonderful novel, engaging, enthralling, and compelling. I loved reading it! Her deft storytelling about what it meant to be Black, female and gay, to be an outsider in every way, was completely enthralling and yet beautiful in its interwoven political consciousness-raising. Her pain, her love, her glory, her otherness all scream from the page. And then her poetry winds its way cat-like in-between our legs as we are captivated by her life.
I need to read more books written by women like Audre Lorde. She is so inspirational, and I can’t wait to read some of her poetry.
Being a feminist bookseller and a huge Audre Lorde fan, I read Zami for the first time as soon as it came out in 1982.
Through their exuberant adventures around the city a silence runs: Gennie knows what Audre and the reader do not, and Audre's efforts to make it better come to nothing.From high school Audre moves on to life on her own, outside her mother's reach but incorporating all her mother's resourcefulness and determination.
Audre Lorde recounts the first half of her life in an amazing blend of her own poetry, popular songs, journal entries, and memories that are startling in their exactness and fairness.
Her ability to recount her extreme loneliness and desire for companionship at being Black in gay scenes, gay in Black crowds and female and working class in the U.S. Her amazing sympathy for the women and men whom she loved and hurt/was hurt by is a testament to her desire to create great networks and bridges between anti-racist groups, queer groups, womens groups, and labor unions.
Sometimes I found the descriptions of everything around her beautiful, sometimes tedious. Sometimes i appreciated her honesty and frank descriptions of her feelings for other women, sometimes I found them voyeuristic and out of the scope of my understanding.But ultimately it made me cry a little and when she talks about how much she's looked down upon for being black even past being lesbian it's heartbreaking, even if sometimes it gets obscured by a litany of names I can't connect and descriptions of scenes I can't imagine. It's still beautiful.
I love this book so much
I’ve never read a memoir where I’ve felt intimidated by and not cool enough to be friends with the writer. Audre Lorde is that cool! Even though it’s an honest and beautiful memoir, it did strike me that she’s a different and more brave kind of person than I could ever be.
So good so good so good!!! It's nice to relate to other gay people of color. I love it. I love this book. I love Audre Lorde. It's about her, and her liferacegenderbodybrain. I'm stunned. I love this book.
this is a passionate fiercely real and intelligent memoire, of yes, a black lesbian coming of age in the 40s and 50s.
in this memoir, or biomythography, as lorde refers to it, you get only the first 21 years of her life, but geez, what a 21 years it is.would be an interesting counterpoint to the beat version of 50s new york bohemia, especially since they so glorify the white male perspective.my only miff with this book is when she describes her girlfriend with schizophrenia as being detached from the black experiences that so clearly informs lordes' life.
mother of all. outstanding writing filled with love, nostalgia, eroticism, sensuality, poetry, beauty and so much more.
whoa!!! this is the first book i read cover to cover in a single day in at least a year, enthralled. makes me wanna scream <3
And if Audre Lorde doesn't fit along those lines, I don't know who else could.
She has an obvious affinity towards details and, even though that can turn slightly tedious at times, it's fascinating nonethelss and unlocks a new horizon of symbols.Outsider, traveller, lover, activist and so much more than can't even be fit into words, Audre Lorde lays out an intimate, lyrical account of the first half of her life, focusing on each theme she explores with the same candor and ardor, and putting out a valuable foundation for generations of women to follow.
I felt like she was talking directly to me; there were so many moments that I wanted to underline (I didn’t have a pen) that just...punched me in the gut.
I loved her exploration of all the ways women can love and support each other, and what gets in the way of that love, be it with friends, lovers, or long-term partners.
I particularly appreciated her discussion of what it was like to be a lesbian in those days, as well as the dynamics of interracial gay relationships.
Love, love, love.
Her thick, rich, textured detail brought time and place alive, and I was there in the room with her, from New York to Mexico, and back again.
Her complicated relationship with her mother was presented with such nuance and heart, and gave me all the feelings.Ahead of her time in so many ways - in her understanding of intersectionality, in her sex positivity and play with non-manogamy, in her ideas of sisterhood and her lesbian identity, in her understanding of the ways that place shapes us (whether her mother's home of Grenada, her time in Mexico City, or her life in New York).
Audre Lorde is the queen of healing and understanding, I feel so cleansed after reading this. I wrote down multiple pages of quotes especially from the last 50 pages. I had the James Baldwin quote: “You think your pain and your heartbreak are unprecedented in the history of the world, but then you read.” in mind throughout. Thank you Audre <3
I think it was Justin who told me that reading this book made him want to scream, and at the time, I was only familiar with two books of Audre Lorde's poetry, so I didn't know that her prose could punch like this.
It's not so much that this "biomythography" punches, but it builds the heat up in your body as you read, which gives you the kind of energy necessary to do something because you could die your death on Calvary, but you ain't gonna die no more!Audre Lorde takes you from her childhood at home up until who knows when, but the years pass by fast, and she seems to keep track of them by the relationships she develops with women.
Audre Lorde has quickly become one of those authors I want to read everything by.
This is a super weird comparison, but it reminds me of first discovering Robertson Davies, and then determinedly working through everything of his I could get my hands on.
Audre Lorde and Robertson Davies are pretty much nothing at all alike, other than something lyrical and mythical and addicting in their voices.
Well, Audre Lorde is officially my current obsession, and I am going to determinedly work through everything of hers I can get my hands on.
I tend to agree with him, though I wouldn't call the second half of the book boring--just less colorful, so to speak, which is funny because it's in the second half that all the love affairs and gay bars and shitty jobs arise.
As I said, the second half didn't engage me quite as swiftly or powerfully, but that isn't to say the second half sucked--it just didn't grab me by the throat in the way the first did.
And I have to say, she at least pulled me a bit closer to her side--because her feminist non-fiction writings, while beautifully written, have tended to turn me off a bit on Lorde.
