https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/10221.Death_in_Berlin
I have a soft spot in my heart for all things Germany-related, and this 1955 murder mystery by M.M. Kaye, set in post-WWII Berlin, has its charms and a nicely authentic feel to the setting.
(hide spoiler)] A guy leaps out of the truck, grabs a random passenger from the train and kisses her passionately.
The End.So, that's the story of my train ride through Germany.I might hypothetically be a little bitter because I didn't guess the murderer right.
M.M. Kaye wrote six "Death in ..." murder mystery novels, each with a side helping of romance.
Miranda is on a train to Berlin, accompanying her cousin Robert, his wife Stella, their daughter Lottie and her governess.
There is a murder on the train and the authorities narrowed it down to 11 possible suspects, Miranda included – and possibly at the top of the list since she discovered the body and managed to be the only one with blood on her hands, clothing, and shoes.In Berlin, they move into their housing.
The ruins – some left behind and some participating in becoming ski hills – living side by side with new housing and commercial buildings.
That being said, I very much liked the change in setting.
Kaye easily conjured up the sights, colors and smells of the allied occupied capital in the years following WWII.
In her hands, the hopeful optimism of the city years before the rising of the Berlin Wall is wonderfully captured forever, and takes the reader on a tour of a place long vanished.The murder mystery is well plotted and features all the hallmarks of a Kaye novel: a fresh young heroine, an older, strong, stoic and silent hero, and the 6-8 typical "stiff-upper-lip" British secondary characters (all with means, motive and opportunity to do the deed).If you enjoy clean, cozy English murder mysteries similar in feel to Agatha Christie or Georgette Heyer, do yourself a favor and try one from M.M. Kaye.
A mystery/suspense set in post war Berlin that involves Miranda Brand, a young English woman.
Miranda has travelled to Berlin with her cousin and his wife and becomes caught up in a series of murders that are seemingly unrelated.Couldn't quite classify this as a "cozy" mystery but to my mind it does come close.
I really enjoyed the atmosphere and the setting, and the hint of romance between Miranda and Simon Lang.
There were enough twists and turns to keep you guessing right up to the end of the novel.
Very similar in style to the novels of Mary Stewart.A relatively quick read with a convoluted mystery element.
Buddy read with Jeannette and HannahAnother really good mystery by MM Kaye.
Kaye did a very good job of describing the bombed out buildings, the piles of rubble that had already been grassed over into ski hills, bullet riddled statues and the different sectors.
War-torn Berlin doesn't exactly sound like a great vacation spot to me but there is a connection to her past so that is probably why she was drawn there.
The book starts with a very good prologue and then we are off on a train ride where things do go "bump in the night." There is also a fortune in diamonds stolen by Nazis that was never recovered.
I vaguely recall reading a few of these "Death in..." books a while ago. Mostly romantic suspense. This one was entertaining enough, but while Miranda is semi-redoubtable, she's one of those people who have a lot of things happen to them, but never jump to any logical conclusions, or do anything particularly proactive.Also very much of-its-era in terms of racial attitudes.
Not as good as Death in Cyprus, but not bad as a quick little whodunnit suspense thing.
This one read like a whodunit, but it was just really a telling. I'm glad to see that other reviewers have said that this is the weakest of the M.M. Kaye novels, because I've already bought the others.
Ok, a 1.5 star rating is probably a little harsh, but I just did not enjoy this M.M. Kaye mystery!
I tend to not be much of a fan of stories set against the backdrop of WW II, so that probably played a role in my distaste for this book.
I was bored most of the time I was reading it!Furthermore, I just didn't connect with any of the characters in this story.
Just as I'd about give the book up, Kaye would make me panic along with Miranda, and she'd hook me just enough to keep me reading.
I really didn't see THAT coming!
How often can you say that about mystery or suspense fiction where the who in whodunit is often crystal clear and glaringly obvious half-way through the book, especially with clues generously lining the path?
It was near the end when I even entertained the notion that the murderer was the one.
She had shown up as a frightened child during WW2 on a boat with other escapees from carrying a huge doll with the key to a priceless fortune inside, all alone.
Can Simon save her?
Read and see what happens.
This was the first M M Kaye murder mystery I ever read, and it remains one of my favourites. Sometimes I get a bit frustrated by the helpless heroine scenario in the six books, but I guess it was a reflection of the times.
(That may be due to something as simple-- yet elusive-- as "the right book at the right time".) Based on what I've read so far (and comments from other readers), Kaye has a formula for her mysteries, and she sticks to it.
Miranda herself, I didn't particularly care for in the beginning-- a bit too young and fresh, perhaps-- but by the end of the book, she was fine.
There's not much of a mystery if characters behave normally or aren't good at hiding their true nature.--I'm seeing another trend in the "Death in..." books I've read so far...
For a holiday trip, Miranda Brand travels by train to Berlin with a group of military families who work for the British or American sectors.
A murder occurs on the train, and Miranda discovers the body.
Rather than spending a carefree holiday in Berlin, Miranda spends her days tracking down clues, learning relationships and past history of the small group of train travelers.
As in an Agatha Christie cozy mystery, all the suspects are in the group who traveled on the train together, and the solution lies in secrets from their past.
A history lesson with a touch of suspense.
Click here to read my full review:https://crossexaminingcrime.wordpress...
Young Miranda Brand accompanies her cousin (who is in the British service) and other British families to their station in Germany.
After a dinnertime story told by a brigadier - one that shockingly ties into Miranda's past - the mood becomes one of tension, suspicion...and ultimately murder.
M.M. Kaye does play fairly with the reader, although she cleverly disguises the truth by tossing in a handful of red herrings (many of which are explained away at the end of the book).
That does make for a fun ride, though, and I look forward to another of her books.
13/11/2017Exactly 11 months later lol. A good reread, forgot a lot and almost thought I hadn't read it before. 13/01/2017Mm a new author to stan <3I like her style. The story simmered slowly, but the author created an effective tension which helped it read easily. Miranda is a bit naive, but a decent protagonist. Didn't really see the twist with the murderer coming. Overall a good "cosy" suspense
My current read-to-sleep mystery.
By far my favorite of the M. M. Kaye 'Death in...' books. It was the perfect book to devour in almost one sitting on a lazy Saturday afternoon.
Suspense novel with a sliver of romance that is elevated by good writing and a classic vintage feel. Strong sense of place - Berlin, post WWII. Fun vacation read.
Someone who has been steeped in military culture, as I have, has a hard time with some of the less than admirable aspects of the worldview expounded upon in the work.
In the book, there are a series of murders surrounding a group of British military families travelling by train from their homes in England to the husbands’ new assignment in the British and American sectors of Berlin post-World War II.
This is the lax view of marriage, and the attendant almost cult-like insistence that spouses accept military cultures and ideas, *or else*.
The idea that she is the murderess, and is indeed evil and vile, is apparent from her refusal to accept military culture.
A good mystery with a large but closed pool of suspects, I struggled a little to keep up with who was who in this one. I did have a stinking cold this week so maybe my brain wasn’t at full capacity, but I’m not sure I could tell you now who did what and why! I enjoyed it though, some great writing making me feel genuinely scared for the character, that’s always fun 🙂 I’ll read more from MM Kaye for sure.
3.75 stars
Very good mystery, set in early 1950’s Berlin. Little bit of language & phrases rather dated, but I really enjoyed it. (Own)
Love Kaye's 6 thrillers -- period pieces, but wonderfully written.
M. M. Kaye is one of my favorite mystery writers. Her crisp writing, well-defined characters, and fully formed settings hold up very well through time. It's always an adventure when starting one of her books.
Great old-fashion mystery!
Although this book was okay-ish, it really didn't manage to catch my attention. Characters were flat and most times quite annoying, and the plot was full of cliches (nevertheless I admit that I didn't expect the outcome of whom the murderer was, but the circumstances that led to it were stereotypical). I liked that it was a light read and somewhat entertaining, especially the last chapters, but given how much time it has taken me to read it, that showcases how much of an opposite to a page-turner it was for me.
Many of my complaints about Death in Kashmir could be applied to Berlin as well...
Something about a helpless heroine, a massive coincidence, and a cast of underdeveloped characters, perhaps.
But even so, I genuinely liked the novel.
Miss Miranda Brand is visiting her cousin and his wife, stationed in Berlin just after WWII.
It all has something to do with the story the murdered man told that evening at dinner just before he died...
a story of mystery, murder, and a fortune in diamonds.
A story that involved a little refugee girl with treasure inside her doll...
M. Kaye, and the dialogs, scenes and even the characters are getting very predictable.
This story took forever to start, the female lead was annoying or saying and doing things that were annoying, and in the end the criminal wasn't even convincing, that is, the reason for the crime was quite uninspiring.
Having said all that, it was a picturesque read into post WWII Germany, the angle of Wally was nice, and even the annoying female lead was not annoying when in company of Wally.
(Or was it just because I read them before and wasn't as yet jaded by the sameness of the characters?)
SUMMARY: British Army officer Robert Melville has been stationed in the post-WWII British zone of Berlin, and has invited his cousin Miranda to join his family there as a kind of holiday for her.
While travelling, they and several other passengers are regailed at dinner one night by the long, drawn-out tale of a retired brigadier, something about missing jewels and the disappearance of a Nazi and his wife.
When the brigadier is found murdered in his train compartment, the entire group falls under suspicion, and Miranda finds herself playing detective and falling in love with the real detective investigating the case.
