https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/13624688-the-time-keeper
This story is part Dor, part Victor, and part Sarah, but does not spend enough time with any one of them to make me, as a reader, feel connected to them.
That lack of connection took this book from something that, I was hoping, I would connect to and feel inspired by, to simply a story that, frankly, wasn't really that good.I think where this went wrong was the way the book was formatted, first of all (bold lettering making a statement before a paragraph about the character).
He wanted to measure things, like the movement of sun the moon and the stars.
One day, the king of the land (a former childhood friend) came to visit Dor to ask him for his help on this tower he was working on.
The king thought all of Dor’s gadgets he use to measure time would help bring power to his tower, since he was building it to reach heaven, but Dor refused.
He stormed off towards the Tower of Babel and climbed the steps, he wanted to have a word with God, he wanted more time with his wife.
I don't think this review does, but you can stop reading now if you wish).
Albom's explanation of Dor's thought processes in figuring out numbers and time is pure gold.
The silver part of the novel is about a high-school girl named Sarah Lemon.
Sarah is eager for time to pass quickly before their first date.
Soon, though, her heart is broken, as happens to unpopular lonely high school girls.
However, he has come up with an alternative use for his money.Three very different, intertwined characters with different perspectives on Time.
I tell you, it is time to read this book!
It reinforces the value of being interdependent with those we love and care about, that we need to be open and honest and fully present for them.
I recommend this to others, but it does feel like you are reading a screenplay initially and it is hard to care about the characters when they are initially presented.
It is in their most desperate of acts to manage time for their own purpose that I can relate to them best and feel how they needed one another to move forward to their true destinies.Quotes I liked:P 79- "It is never too late or too soon.
If I were to rate this book, I'd probably give it 2 stars.
I feel bad doing that, though, so I'm just leaving it blank.
It's not that it's a bad book.
It's a nice little fable and has good intentions.
Many will no doubt find it comforting and life-affirming.
I just found it all a bit too obvious for my taste.
Perhaps I'm just not one who feels I need a fable to remind me how precious our time on earth is, or how important it is to try to live in the moment.
I'm all too aware of it every day.
“Knowing something and understanding it were not the same thing.”   A short story before the review. You know, I have a friend. A very precious one. One, who knows many parts of me better than any other person. She, more than anyone else, knows how obsessed I am with time. Always was. I am always in time, always counting time and paying attention to it. It can be quite annoying. She gave me the book and told me to read it, or better ordered me to read it. This friend knew what this book would d
She, more than anyone else, knows how obsessed I am with time.
A story about a man named Dor who starts measuring time, something he better shouldn't do.
He hears all the voices who speak about time, over 6000 years.
And one who doesn't want time at all.
The write style of this book was very simple, the sentences were kept short and precise, there was nothing complicated about them.
The shortness of the sentences was a strength of this book.
The book showed three different people, with completely different lives.
There was neither thrill, nor excitement in this book, but there was understanding and thinking and strength.
Dor is an interesting character on paper, but so little is put into why he has this desire to measure time.
Unless the novel as a whole is some sort of comment on how our lives move too fast to truly know anyone around us (which seems kind of defeatist and against the point Albom is trying to make in this novel), there simply isn't enough time put in towards developing these characters so that their actions actually have meaning to the reader.
It's an interesting concept, but this novel seems like the kind of thing you might pick up at an airport and read on the ensuing flight for a shallow time-killer, and little more.
Rather quirky and unusual but still a light read, this is a story about Father Time and the man who discovered time in the first place.
I enjoyed the way it was told in short chapters which circled around three different points of view.
I have not read any of this author's other (more famous) books yet but I certainly will now.
This was an ideal book to read on hot Sydney summer Sunday with the air conditioning on full blast!
I love days when you just have to stay inside and read:)
That one word that made me lose it and just cry - page 220, last line, last word - "Grace."Mitch Albom has a way of capturing hearts with every word he writes and how he writes them.
But it was still full of lessons like a typical Mitch Albom book is - lessons that will keep you thinking, lessons that will fill your thoughts as you lay in bed at night, waiting for sleep to come.
After reading an Albom book, I usually feel heavy hearted, sad but inspired.
But The Time Keeper gave a lighter tone to it, which is maybe why I didn't feel heavy hearted when I finished it.
وقتی خدا روزهای انسان رو محدود می کنه ، یه حکمتی پشتش هست ... اینکه ، هر روزمون ارزشمند و گرانبها باشه
But although this one was still fantastic, it didn't hit home in the same way as The Five People You Meet in Heaven or Tuesdays with Morrie It focuses on a man in the stone age - the first person to discover time - as penance he is forced to forever listen to the outcome of his discovery.
That is - the human race constantly asking for more time.
He is sent to save two people on Earth, in order to save himself from his eternal fate.
These two souls are an old, ailing man suffering from a terminal illness and a teenage girl wanting to end her life.
His name was Dor and he was the first human to measure time.
After a tragic illness took his wife, Dor wanted to reach the heavens and demand more time.
She wants time to speed up so that she can be with the boy who is showing interest in her.
Sarah believes that if Ethan spends time with her, he will see how wonderful she is.
Victor wants to freeze his body so that it can be healed of its cancer in the future and be given another lifetime to live.After 6,000 years, Dor is release from his cave and sent to modern times to save these two people.
Some want it to progress faster, and others want time to slow down.
Many take time for granted and don't appreciate the chance that we all have to take a moment and savor these memories.Dor's life is the main story, as his starts in the times of Babel and ends in present day.
He created time and then time stole his life from him.
She wants her time to be over.
Victor Delmonte is suffering from dialysis and cancer racking his body, he wants time to last forever.Solid book by Albom, with good life lessons to take away.
The other two main characters are Victor who has cancer and who is running out of time and Sarah who initially wants time to hurry up.
Though it was entertaining and a quick read, this Mitch Albom story didn’t quite involve me the way a couple of his other books have.
For someone who wants a light read that just really might cause them to think about time and their own lives this could be a worthwhile read.
It did remind me a little of the work of Jostein Gaader and it was a good change of pace from the book I had read before it.
I liked his other fiction stories and was expecting to find the same style amongst the pages.
But I decided to keep going and this story is so worth the effort.The story follows Dor, Victor and Sarah.
Dor lived during the early Bible times during the time of the tower of Babel being built.
Dor has an obsessive desire to figure out how long it takes for things to happen and invents ways to count and determine time.
Sarah is a teenager experiencing love for the first time.
Her love interest doesn't seem to be as interested in her and makes her live so intolerable that she wants to end it.
(review in English below)Uma escrita muito básica, quase parecendo dirigida a um público juvenil, sobre um tema supostamente profundo e filosófico mas tratado, quanto a mim, duma forma bastante superficial e previsível.Uma desilusão, portanto...A very plain writing, almost as if it were meant for young readers, about a supposedly deep and philosophical subject that was addressed, in my opinion, in a very shallow and predictable way.A real disappointment...
I honestly think this is the worst book I've ever read.
Albom fills the book with his nonsensical musings on time, such as, "Can you imagine endless time to learn?" and uses repetition and bold font to indicate all the heightened DRAMA, such as "Sarah was running out of time"..."SARAH WAS RUNNING OUT OF TIME." The worst part is that the caveman enlightens the two main characters by showing them scenes of how their families and friends react after their deaths, an outrageous rip-off of Charles Dickens's A Christmas Carol.
When Alli falls gravely ill, Dor runs frantically to the tower that Nim is building, his stairway to heaven, and he climbs it, seeking to reach the top and force the gods to stop time and help his beloved continue to live.
He creates the legend of Father Time.For me, the ultimate message of this little tale is that although we live by time, and we want to control it, we do not own it, we have no power over it and we are helpless in the face of it.
Dor: There is a reason why God limits our days.Viktor: Why?Dor: To make each one precious.Another wonderful and inspiring story from Mitch Albom :)
Father time starts out as a young curious boy who invents how to read time and marries the love of his life only to have major life changes and ends up in a cave having to listen to people constantly ask for more time in is head.
Then we follow a couple of other character storylines.....a young girl with unrequited love and a rich old man dying of cancer.....
I have to say I was thinking about the book when I wasn't reading it, and feeling sorry for father time stuck in a cave.....Halfway through this I wanted to put it down and give up but I persevered.
Absolutely loved this. A beautifully sensitive tale and constructed in such a way that you just don’t want to put it down.And the moral? Tempus Fugit.… sometimes.
Time is precious, time is gold.
We often saw people wasting their time; claiming it was nothing but just to pass time.
Yes TIME.
How many words can be used to be in a sentence with time?
Many; but truthfully we know nothing bout time.
"Man alone measures time.
And, because of this, man alone suffers from a paralyzing fear that no other creature endures.
A fear of running out of time." Some people wanted the time to go faster.
There's a reason why God limits our days.
It is to make each one of our life's precious.
I liked the idea and the first chapters about Dor ad Alli, then I got somewhat bored afterwards and until the end!  “With endless time, nothing is special. With no loss or sacrifice, we can’t appreciate what we have”
the ending was beautiful, but thats it.
Ironically enough, Albom’s latest novel, “The Time Keeper” would have easily blended into the lesson plans of my other elective, “Myths, Symbols, and Rituals” due to the fact that it is a true example of a ‘creation myth’.
“The Time Keeper” left me noticing my own feelings towards and of my handling of time which was more than likely Albom’s intent.
Plus, on a side note, the novel is a very fast read (one day, at the most) which helps not “waste” time!“The Time Keeper” is suggested for a creative, quick, and inspirational read.
Pročitavši Dorovu priču, zapitat ćete se ne činite li i vi ponekad isto ono što je činio i Dor i drugi likovi u ovoj knjizi: neprestano žrtvujete vrijeme koje imate radi nekog budućeg vremena koje možda zapravo nikada nećete niti imati prilike iskusiti.Albom nam ovom knjigom želi poručiti da je možda vrijeme da prestanemo živjeti u prošlosti, ili za budućnost, već da počnemo živjeti u sadašnjosti, u svakom trenutku u kojem se nalazimo i da svaki taj trenutak počnemo cijeniti.O ovoj priči promišljat ćete dugo nakon čitanja, pitajući se ne bi li nam, zaista, bilo ljepše da nikada nismo shvatili kako vrijeme prolazi i naučili kako tu prolaznost mjeriti; da nismo postali ovisni o vremenu, zarobljeni u njemu, trčeći uvijek sve brže samo da ga prestignemo, svjesni da nam to nikada neće zaista uspjeti.
Picking things from the very grass root level, this book “The Time Keeper” tells you a story about time.
A lesson for the rest of your life.Dor, also called Father Time, tries to find out a way to stop time to prevent his ailing wife from succumbing to death.
How things would’ve been different, had we a little more time.
The man who invented time had his say.
He stopped his ageing, he won over time.
I didn’t like the ending much, appeared too clichéd for my liking.Overall, a nice one-time read.
The premise was intriguing - “Father Time” (the man who first begins tracking time) is trapped in a cave for 6,000 years, has to listen to humanity complain about time, then he’s sent to Earth to help two people - an 80 year old millionaire who is dying and a teenage girl who wants to die.
His mission, that which will finally allow him to die/pass on, is to help these two people.The premise was great - I just wasn’t that into it.
It never takes into account how time has benefitted us and allowed us to do more that can enrich our life experiences.
The story is about a man who was disciplined (I might as well use the word "penalize" lol) for measuring one of God’s greatest gift: TIME.
The first person is a teenage girl who wants to give up on life, and the other is a wealthy businessman who wants to live forever.The story was able to get its message across; that TIME is precious and we should always use and spend it well.These are the quotes worth sharing from the novel:“Yet all around you, timekeeping is ignored.
Yes, mankind was much better off 6,000 years ago before everyone started thinking and inventing and whatnot.Other characters include - Victor, the rich finance type who shouts things like "I paid good money for that!"; Sarah, the chubby 17-year-old with daddy issues who thinks like a 6-year-old and hates herself because the cute boy is mean and doesn't love her; Sarah's mom, who is a single mom and is just doing her best but darn it why won't her teenage daughter confide in her?; etc.The cover of this book is cool, and so is the concept.
