https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/9593911-pandemonium
Pre Review:If Alex doesn't make it...then my heart will implode. I really hope that Pandemonium has the following or I'm not sure I'd make it through this book:-Alex is alive, in prison, and not "cured" (because no one better touch a hair on his head!!!)-Lena WAITS for him, gets stronger, and *drum roll* rescues him-Lena doesn't fall in love with some other dude with pretty eyes and kissable lips or I'd SOS him.(Shoot on Sight)So the book is coming out February 28 and I preordered my copy!!!! P
Pre Review:If Alex doesn't make it...then my heart will implode. I really hope that Pandemonium has the following or I'm not sure I'd make it through this book:-Alex is alive, in prison, and not "cured" (because no one better touch a hair on his head!!!)-Lena WAITS for him, gets stronger, and *drum roll* rescues him-Lena doesn't fall in love with some other dude with pretty eyes and kissable lips or I'd SOS him.(Shoot on Sight)So the book is coming out February 28 and I preordered my copy!!!!
  Post Review:Oh lord...coming soon.
But I really should've known better than to doubt Lauren Oliver.In Pandemonium, Lena is having to survive in the Wilds with her new friends, is having to prove herself worthy to be in the resistance, and is having to forget the boy who made her rebel in the first place, infected her, Alex.
So I definitely think of her as part of the "kick-ass heroine" club now.I also know that a lot of you didn't really like the fact that Lena is "allegedly" going to fall in love with someone other than Alex, and I'm sorry to tell you guys, but that fact is true.
Read a more coherent review of this book over at my blog._________________________OMG. OH MY GOD.OH. MY. FUCKING. CLIFFHANGER.AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAARGH.*several screaming fits later*(view spoiler)[ALEX IS ALIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIVEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEE SDGFJINOFASOISGJFOAISJMGPLDSA,'G;SAD'G[DASP;L'G[AOASGNSJG[PO  (hide spoiler)](For those of you who haven't read this book,  DO NOT  click that. >_> It'll ruin the entire book. I warned you. For those of you who have read it, well, be m
Read a more coherent review of this book over at my blog._________________________OMG.
CLIFFHANGER.AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAARGH.*several screaming fits later*(view spoiler)[ALEX IS ALIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIVEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEE SDGFJINOFASOISGJFOAISJMGPLDSA,'G;SAD'G[DASP;L'G[AOASGNSJG[PO  (hide spoiler)](For those of you who haven't read this book, 
I was literally screaming like a maniac at the book.
What the fucking fuck?Fucking fuckity fuck fuck fuckaroonie.Fuck.Okay well, now that I've calmed down a little I want to say this.(view spoiler)[To be honest, the fact that Alex is still alive kind of makes me happy and horrified at the same time.
Happy because, come on, it's Alex.
In that last scene in the first book, there was no way he could've survived!
Sorry folks, there might be some spoiler-age for the outcome of book 1 (the previous book) in this review because I have a wee bit of an incoming rant ready to go and I don't think I can hold it back. *edit* while this review only has spoilers for book 1, you may want to avoid the comments discussion below the review if you don't want book 2 spoiled.  "I'm scared."He barely whispers it; but I can feel his lips moving against my neck, as though the words are being spelled there."I know," I say. "
Don't get me wrong, I like Julian.
I liked his part of the story with Lena.
With Julian, I was thinking, "That's right, girl.
You school this clueless mofo." Did I say that I liked Julian but that he just isn't Alex?
Before reading Delirium, I wasn't completely sure how I was going to feel about another dystopia revolving around love choices.
The ending actually got me to let out a little scream-yip thing.
Do the right thing, Lena.
Yes, outlawing love in general makes absolutley no sense and because of that, the author needs to sell it to me with everything she has that it does in some way make sense to the leaders of this world.There are small things that I feel were put there to make you think there is some weird sexual obsession by the government, but that goes nowhere.
As I've said, this entire book is nothing more than a set-up for the third book which is going to be all about the triangle.I also didn't care for the way the story is told in this one, with chapters titled Now and Then as the story goes back and forth between Lena's arrival in the Wilds and her life later in Brooklyn.
Oh! Urrrrrrr. *Gurgle* Kapowy! *Splutter* *Cough* *Die*Okay, Pandemonium was a HUGE improvement over Delirium for me. First of all, the world seemed A LOT more consistent. The world building was an improvement as well.Perhaps the biggest improvement was Lena herself. No more whiny, annoying, insecure little girl. This Lena has been through the fire, got burnt and is fighting to survive. What I love is that Lena has grown, become capable, assertive, intelligent and shrewd. There were parts of thi
The world build­ing was an improve­ment as well.Per­haps the biggest improve­ment was Lena her­self.
This Lena has been through the fire, got burnt and is fight­ing to sur­vive.
What I love is that Lena has grown, become capa­ble, assertive, intel­li­gent and shrewd.
Now she’s back behind the fence, but this time as an oper­a­tive of the resis­tance and her mark is Julian Fine­man – son of a rad­i­cal move­ment to fur­ther erad­i­cate the sick­ness known as love.
I wasn’t a huge fan of Delir­ium but Pan­de­mo­nium has me aching for Requiem to see what happens.You know it’s a good novel when the last line has you going:“No!
EDIT: Finally.
(view spoiler)[Love triangles.
(hide spoiler)] Although the full blast will be on the next book :pAnyway Pandemonium is a little bit dragging although it's good that Lena's starting to get strong here.
(view spoiler)[Julian.
(I'm not sure if I'm supposed to give away the name so just to be sure ;)) (hide spoiler)] He didn't grow on me as much as Alex did.
I still prefer Alex, since he's man enough to save Lena (view spoiler)[Unlike Julian who's the one who needs to be saved.
(hide spoiler)] Alex died for Lena!
Heartbrake.For.Alex.Earlier review: PANDEMONIUM?
Can't wait!!
Pleasy??wait!!!
Why aren't books more like this?!The thing that saved this book from being a downer was this: the author didn't just write a straight tale where Lena gets to the wild and then keeps growing, keeps getting strong, blah blah same thing we have read about a hundred times.
It's pretty freaking amazing, and I can't believe I have to wait till 2013 to read the sequel.
I love the orange color, it also goes with the new cover.Updated: July 19, 2011.Okay, I just finished Delirium, and Im sorry but I can't wait till freaking 2012 for this book?!
Original review:HOLY SHIT.Review to come when I can actually see through my frustrated tears.You can find this review and many more at Mermaid Vision Books!Release Date: February 28, 2012Publisher: Harper TeenAge Group: Young AdultPages: 375Format: HardcoverSource: ARC received from publisherTell Me More: Around page 301, I posted this status update on Goodreads: "I think--no, I KNOW--that everyone who I forced to read Delirium is going to hate me forever." While most people who read Delirium loved it even as they cried over its horrific twists of fate, Pandemonium is going to be a polarizing story for many readers.
This is not the hopeful side of amor deliria nervosa we knew in Delirium, but instead readers will be forced to endure its pain, its struggle and eventually, its loss.Lauren Oliver opens Pandemonium likening Lena's difficult journey through the Wilds to rebirth and a new life.
"Then" starts in August and is everything that takes place from the minute Lena left Alex and ran into the wilds.
I think the whole new love interest/love triangle cat is already out of the bag since it is mentioned in the description but all I'm going to say is pull out your Team Alex flags because I'm sorry to say it is definitely going to get ugly in Requiem.
(view spoiler)[Lena asks like ONCE the people she ends up with if they heard what happened to Alex.

Delirium is one of my favourite books ever!!!
I'm positive that Alex is alive.
The only thing I don't want in Pandemonium is a love triangle.
But true love should be something unique, that can't be replaced or duplicated.
I'm not sure if I could continue reading the series if somehow Lena fell in love with someone else in Pandemonium.
I know, hard thing to consider too, but I would know then that romance in Delirium wasn't killed.
So, please, let true love conquer all!
I really hope that Lauren Oliver will surprise us all.
Delirium is an ode to love.
Uh, I'll start this review off with what I wrote on goodreads as soon as I finished.If you thought Delirium was great you will be blown away by Pandemonium.
LOLI had a feeling it was going to end like that but to actually have it happen is going to drive me nuts now since I don't have the next book.WOW WOW WOW WOW WOW WOWSo, that was my initial thoughts when I updated my goodreads status.Do I still feel that way?
Will he feel like a different person?Lena and Julian end up escaping and make their journey to find Raven and Tack.
What fall in love again? But I don't want you to fall in love again dammit. ALEX IS THE ONE! *cries*
Just finished "Delirium"..my eyes are so swollen from crying I can barely see the screen..I was so sad and cursing Lauren Oliver for making such a beautiful story and screwing up the ending but seeing "Pandemonium"..It's hope..i'm sure Alex isn't dead ..she's gonna go back and find him in the Crypts just like her mom and she'll go back and save him...I don't know how I'll be able to wait 9 months but I hope it's worth it !
Δε νομίζω πως θα μπορούσε να υπάρξει πιο ταιριαστός τίτλος γι' αυτό το βιβλίο! ΤΙ ΤΕΛΟΣ ΗΤΑΝ ΑΥΤΟ???Πάω κατευθείαν στο επόμενο!
Read the full review at iLive, iLaugh, iLove Books.Ladies and gentlemen, I would just like you to know that I am screaming.
While I enjoyed reading about the homestead (that's basically a camp for the Invalids), I wanted to skip some of the snail-pace parts.Despite its slow start, this book starts fast forwarding very quickly and the words just hit you like BAM!
You have no idea (until you've read this book) how Lauren Oliver has the ability to hold your very heart in your hand and stretch it to her will.
After I read that last word, I just kinda of stared at the book with my mouth open.
But watch this happen...Lena is living on her own in the Wilds, having a good time and feeling free.
Waiting there...thinking of Lena everyday...praying she's alright...while she's off with someone else.
And somehow Alex breaks free (Maybe -just maybe- Lena's mom comes back to save him.
VERY FAR FETCHED POSSIBILITY HERE!!!) And him (and her mom?) make some huge grand entrance into the Wilds, to find Lena in a very...awkward position with the other guy.
Alex is outraged and he storms off and Lena's shocked that he's alive and she is torn between the two guys and, ta da, the classical love triangle.
"If you take, we will take back. Steal from us, and we will rob you blind. When you squeeze, we will hit.This is the way the world is made now."  A read for The Quarterly Book Club’s 2016 Series Reread Challenge*WARNING: This review may contain spoilers for DeliriumExpect the unexpected.If you thought that Delirium blew you away, Lauren Oliver’s  Pandemonium  will push you down a rocky hill and you won’t be able to stop until you hit the very bottom. In the end, you will learn that the title i
From Raven, Lena learned all she had to know: the way of living and surviving, but most especially forgetting the past.The Now chapters, taking place in New York, told the story of the new Lena.
Enrolled in a new school and living a new life and identity, Lena was given the task to enter the world of the DFA, the Deliria-Free America, an organization promoting the cure with its leaders standing as role models to its people.
In the Then chapters, Lena was like a new-born in the Wilds, learning everything from scratch.
Reto #33 PopSugar 2017: Un libro situado en dos períodos de tiempo diferentes Una novela pausada y muy intimista, que me gustó mucho más que Delirium, la primera entrega de esta trilogía, que leí hace más de un año y… eso fue un error. Si bien me acordaba perfectamente del argumento, los personajes y las situaciones, lo que se pierde en tanto tiempo son las sensaciones que causa la lectura. Recuerdo que me había gustado mucho como se describían los sentimientos entre Lena y Álex pero, en este l
Recuerdo que me había gustado mucho como se describían los sentimientos entre Lena y Álex pero, en este libro, cuando se hacía referencia a ellos, me han dejado más bien fría.Porque, para mí, el fuerte de ambas novelas son las emociones que me han transmitido más que la trama y los acontecimientos.
De hecho, en retrospectiva, en esta entrega la historia no avanza mucho respecto del conflicto de esta sociedad futurista.El libro está narrado en primera persona por Lena en capítulos alternados en dos períodos de tiempo diferentes: uno donde nos dejó el primer libro, cuando logra atravesar las vallas y es rescatada por un grupo de inválidos de la Tierra Salvaje y otro, seis meses después, cuando se une a la Resistencia y participa en su primera misión.
Answer me: are you alive?
Please tell me you're alive.
And then I flipped to the last page; last word: ALEX.I died inside.
Honestly.Lauren Oliver, are you serious?But then when I read the last few paragraphs, I died some more.
My Alex.
My Alex.
My sweet Alex.
(hide spoiler)]I liked the action.
But it was in every other sentence sometimes, and I was like NO YOU'RE SUPPOSED TO SPACE COLONS OUT.
DON'T ABUSE THEM.Anyways, I need to read Requiem.
Now. Hurryhurryhurry Lauren Oliver.I love the titles of these books more than anything.Delirium, Pandemonium, Requiem.How much more perfect can you get?
OMFG.I loved this book SO MUCH.
Why you people don't like Julian?
I liked Alex, I really did, but I LOVED Julian.
I'm totally team Julian, and I'm willing to know what happens in Requiem.
It has the worst cliffhanger EVER.
Well, the worst in a good way.
I started cursing when I finished it, lucky I already have my copy of Requiem with me and I'll start reading it tonight.OH, words can't express how much I loved this book and how much I loved Julian.
I loved the fact that Lena could find love again and ahhh...
What is going to happen now?OMFGGGG.
The book was first published on February 28, 2012 through HarperTeen and follows the series' protagonist as she explores the Wilds outside the walled community she was raised in.[2] The book was preceded by a novella entitled Hana and was succeeded by Requiem, the final book in the series.
تاریخ نخستین خوانش: سی ام ماه دسامبر سال 2017 میلادیعنوان: هیاهو (سرگیجه) - کتاب دوم ؛ نویسنده: لورن اولیور؛ مترجمها: آرش آذرنگ؛ زهرا چوپانکاره؛ تهران؛ شهر قلم، 1396؛ در 360 ص؛ شابک: 9786003203983؛ فروست: شیدایی؛ موضوع: داستانهای نویسندگان امریکایی - سده 21 ما.
شربیانی
I was still hurting for Delirium- hurting because I still couldn't and wouldn't accept that Alex is gone.
I admire her courage and strength for accepting very challenging tasks assigned to her by Raven especially when she saves Julian from his execution.
Despite herself and her love for Alex, I understand why she has to let go and give her heart to Julian.
But what devastated me the most was how when Lena was already ready to give her love to Julian, Alex suddenly reappears warning Julian not to believe Lena.
Normally I might not mind this so much but the entire book is so darn intense.
So the book swings back and forth from her time in the Wilds, introducing you to Raven, the leader of the little group in the Wilds, and to the present time when she and Raven and another member of their group, Tack, are in New York, with fake identities, as members of the resistance.
Lena's grief for Alex was so real to me.
I literally could not rest until I finished the final page.
But now, with the cliff hanger, I have to get right on starting the final book.
Fantastic, Fantastic Book!!!
please don't tell me I'm the only one who wasn't even a little surprised by that ending.
Absolutely amazing!Finished Pandemonium 10 minutes ago!
I was extremely lucky to get an advanced copy of Pandemonium.
And forgive me for a MINOR spoiler but as I was looking at the "reviews" that people have posted about their anticipation for the thrilling sequel and couldn't help but chuckle about your fears of what may happen with Lena, some were dead on!
That being said when you rush to your local Barnes and Noble to pick up your copy(that you should have pre-ordered)please begin with an open mind.
If you picked up the beautiful special edition of Delirium you got the first chapter of Pandemonium.
It is heart-wrenching to watch Lena in this state.
WHAT JUST HAPPENED. UM NO. I NEED THE THIRD BOOK. RIGHT NOW.AND THAT'S ALL I HAVE TO SAY ABOUT THIS ONE.
So when I try to remember it my brain is kind of like:Uhhh, so what happened in this book?Oh yeah.
On top of that, Lena starts to fall in love with someone new ...Over all, I enjoyed this book, although I did have some mixed feelings about certain aspects of it.
I loved the ending of the first book and I thought it could have been very powerful as a standalone.
I mean, just that it was kind of like, "Oh, your old love interest is gone?
And Lena is obviously going to end up with Alex because that's how these love triangle things always play out.
On the cover for Pandemonium- the model is fierce, picking the reader apart with her angry glare.
Lena's personality seems to have made a complete 180 degree turn.
This trilogy seems to be Lena's path to becoming a complete person.
Pandemonium is more about Lena's journey and how far into "wild" she is willing to go.I hope you will all read this book when it comes out- and when you do get a chance to read it, hop back here and let me know if you agree with me.
I, personally, can't wait for the third book.
