https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2447144.Kora_in_Hell
What a strange turn.
It reminded me of Sorrentino, though I fear this lacked cubist construction.
The early part of the book appears concerned with levels and vitality of imagination.
I did reflect on that at length, though without success as to ascertain my own development.
Then perpetually at an oblong angle remain Persephone.
Dissemination!These pieces keep a proximity to the earth, as such.
Excerpts of letters from Pound, Stevens and HD illuminate while acting as scar tissue.Memory remains a biological phenomenon, removed from the brocaded currency of writing-in-itself.
I enjoyed these pieces, much mead for a thirsty soul.
I guess I just didn't "get" the narrative of this in its entirety. However, I'm also not a fan of WCW's poetry...I was just interested in looking at this as a book-length poem...and for all I know it is brilliant...
Even WCW wasn't sure what this book was. Reads mostly like a poet's journal and is full of private language.
There is a narrative aspect, and a place between that and the dada aesthetic that Williams is dabbling in, which can be wonderful, where Williams has a note "explaining" the abstract poem above in such a way that while sometimes it will actually help to contextualize it, it often complicates the poem or is so completely different, not applicable at all, that understanding is actually frustrated.
Sadly, for me, I was not able to really tie it all together in a meaningful way.
This is a collection that many have praised quite effusively, but there is something here I cannot grasp, quite, something leaning towards narrative that is decisively NOT narrative that eludes my understanding.
The only reason this doesn't get five stars is WCW's painful need to put an explication beneath each one of the Improvisations. It seems to dull the edge and immediacy of the writing. Otherwise this is a great capture of Williams at his most experimental, and was a huge influence on my own early 'cubist' or 'modal' poetry, or whatever the hell I called it when I was 15.
my favorite from his catalog. so much so, i named my pup after it. I guess this one falls within what the 'literaries' call a bildungsroman. It's immensely powerful. I especially appreciate Kora when reading his later work; the ideas put down in this early, early work remain the focus of his career.
Am I wrong to like the preface so much more than the rest of the work? The preface alone was worth the read.
One of the strangest books out there. Poetic gibberish, free association, imagism, and stream of consciousness.
Honestly, Kora in Hell is less interesting than the poetics he cobbles together in the introduction. Really brilliant stuff up in the first forty pages-- the ramblings of a pretentious madman.
