https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/383129.The_Night_Life_of_the_Gods
The latest unfortunate incident shattered the peace of the residence, no surprise, and all ( old grandpa stays behind) , go to the basement to see the results...Hoping for the best, which to them means the worst, however the scientist, an amateurish tinker is still kicking, when the smoke vanishes, the disappointed mob were already making new plans for the mansion, when from above in the rafters, the unhurt man's, (just torn clothes) voice sounds the alarm , no joy...The niece is delighted, the rest in despair.
2.5 stars rounded up to 3I must admit, I knew very little about Thorne Smith before I picked this one up as a second hand penguin book.
Smith is a comic novelist, and has been compared to P G Wodehouse.
He died in 1934 and this one was published in 1931 I think.This offering is set in and around New York.
He strikes up a relationship with the daughter (a mere 900 years old).
In a museum Hunter has the bright idea of bringing to life some statues of Greek gods.
I think my 13/14 year old self may have enjoyed this more.
When a scientist pairs up with a witch with the ability to bring statues to life, chaos ensues.
The two decide it would be a good idea to bring the statues of the gods at the Metropolitan Museum to life.
The word "romp" could easily have been invented just to describe this sort of book.
I wonder whether the fairly innocuous Disney comedies of the fifties/sixties such as "The Absent-Minded Professor" were patterned on this sort of comic predecessor.
Probably not, but that same spirit of befuddlement in the face of mounting chaos and delight at everything going topsey-turvey is definitely there in both.
Thorne Smith's The Nightlife of the Gods is the literary equivalence of a Frank Capra's screw-ball comedy film.
Smith loved his drunken debaucheries, his mean-spirited pranksters, his heathenistic mythological creatures and of course all that drinking and sex.
Classy double-entendre styled sex of course.
Thorne Smith certainly knew the territory, having hung around Dorothy Parker and James Thurber, usually with way too many cocktails.
His writings were often in the same territory as his colleagues.
Smith is at his peak in The Nightlife of the Gods as he successfully mixed zany humor with the battle of the classes and sexes.
Thorne satirises nearly everything in this generally enjoyable bit of fluff. Sometimes he is very funny but just as often can become laboured and tiresome. The novel is episodic and I feel that it would have gained by pruning. The book is a pleasant period piece but not a classic.
The word "Madcap" was invented for books like "The Night of the Gods." The title sounds kind of serious - but it's about a doctor who invented a ray that can turn people into statues - which he gladly tested on his family.
Somewhere down the line he meets a super cute nude (if memory serves me correctly) fairy - who then both went to a big museum in NYC to zap the God Statues with his ray - which made them come to life.
Words can't describe how much I love this book.
Was I reading the same book as those who rated it as four stars? Clunky writing and way too much scene setting. It takes half of the book to get to the gods. However there were some slightly amusing happenings once they joined the cast of characters.I think Smith, like Nevil Shute, had better plot ideas than ability as a writer, based on this book. This might make a very funny film with good scriptwriters.
First published in the early 30s, this comic fantasy about a drink-loving American inventor who brings statues of the gods back to life for some louche adventures is pretty creaky. He's no Wodehouse and the plot seems at times like he was making it up as he went along. However there are some nicely witty and/or sarcastic lines scattered throughout and it passed the time well enough - and the Rodin-esque final scene was charming.
I read this because Thorne Smith has been compared to one of my favorite writers, P.G. Wodehouse.
When I began reading The Night Life of the Gods I didn't know anything about the writer, but my dad remembered having read Topper.
At a time I thought those movies were very funny and if I had read The Night Life of the Gods at that time I might have enjoyed it immensely, but that phase had passed when I read this novel so I can't say I liked it.
It has one, or two interesting ideas, the occasional funny line, but Thorne Smith isn't Wodehouse.
Reasons for picking it up: Saw it on a random favorites list on GoodReads, thought it would be fun to read.Where did I get it from: Purchased it on Amazon for the Kindle.(If you choose to read the book you can read it directly from the GoodReads website for free.)What this book is about:What happens when a scientist discovers how to turn living material into stone and back again at will and decides to bring the Greek Gods to life.My opinion:Originally written in the 1930s (published in '31)by Thorne Smith, I was uncertain if it would hold my attention long enough to finish.
(Unless they happen to be related to Mr. Hawke.)There is quite a bit of lead-up (half the book at least) to the arrival of the Greek Gods, but once they are introduced things pick up at an exponential rate.
The humor was 'adult' and it is clever and imaginative and still has much to recommend it.
It plays a bit like a 30s bedroom comedy--which makes alot of sense--but my tastes have changed long ago, and what seemed daring and smart and clever at 12 seems tired and quaint and dated to my adults eyes.Still, a very clever and funny book, and one I am surprised was never adapted for the screen like Topper and Turnabout.
It would have fared very well, and I have imagined which golden age actors might have made a good Poseidon or Bacchus.
What a fun little book.
I think our culture has moved beyond the point where anything can be ribald any more.
And that's a bit of a shame, because there's some fun to be had with subtlety.
At any rate, The Night Life Of The Gods was written in 1931, and it is ribald as all hell.
From this rather ridiculous premise comes a pretty entertaining novel that urges you to have more fun in life.
I can think of quite a few people who would benefit from a bit of ribaldry every once in a while.
This book suffers from a bad case of being nowhere near as funny as it thinks it is.
The story is okay, but most of the characters are not terribly likable (and many can barely can be told apart) and the wit falls flat because it's fairly juvenille and sort of elitist at the same time (you definitely get the impression that no one is cool enough to hang out with these people- cool being defined as heavy drinking and irresponsible, naturally).
Additionally, despite little moments and gems of wisdom, the narrative prose is dense and difficult to read, making what should be light-hearted and quick feel mostly like a chore with very little recompense.
Night Life of the Gods had me rolling. Although Thorn Smith died in 1934, his humor has lost none of its edge. Perhaps that's because he focused on those timeless themes that speak to readers across the generations; sex, drinking, and non-stop partying. Highly recommended, as is his better known book Topper, in which two fun-loving ghosts attempt to pull the conservative and straitlaced banker Cosmo Topper into a life of, well… sex, drinking, and non-stop partying.(First read in July of 2011, re-read for the MobileRead Book Club March 14, 2016.)
This is a great period book, but also one (for my personal taste) that started out highly imaginatively, but ran out of gas somewhere about 2/3 of the way through. I'm betting the author didn't quite know where he was headed with it. But the opening stuff is extremely imaginative and creative and fun. Definitely worth picking up just for the first parts.
One of the few books I can read every few years and it is always makes me laugh. Thorne Smith wrote this book in 1931 and it is a classic. If you are in the mood for light reading that will make you smile this is the book for you.
This book took me forever to get through, but I think that's more my fault that its. It was pretty funny (in the Wodehouse vein, but slightly less wit and quite a bit more...deviancy?) with some LOL moments, which I always appreciate.
Fantastic, it provides chuckles, giggles and out in the open laughter. Well written, witty without being either too dry or too earthy. Intelligent without being snobbish. Smith is the American answer to Oscar Wilde.
Not his best, but certainly still a cut above. I would highly recommend this to anyone who likes the "what if ancient gods were here and now" style.
Various high jinx ensure as Hawk indulges his desire to annoy his family and acquaintances by turning various bits of them into stone.
Meg, although she has been alive for quite some time, has maintained a youthful charm and incurs the wrath of Hawk's family with her scandalous behavior.Meg and Hawk spend some time tormenting their high society acquaintances, but soon turn to a more exciting plan.
Though Smith can be quite funny, the times of feeling excluded from the prose prevents full investment in the events of the story.For readers looking for a light, airy novel, The Night Life of the Gods will fit the bill.
In Night Life of the Gods, by Thorne Smith, we meet Hunter Hawk, wealthy eccentric scientist in 1920s America, who, after numerous explosions, manages to invent an "atomic ray" that turns living beings into statues, and a second ray that restores them to their original state.
He meets Megaera, the 900-year-old descendent of one of the ancient Furies and daughter of one of the last living leprechauns, and she has the magic to turn statues into living beings.
Also in its favour is the fact that the female characters, while generally indolent, are by no means subordinate to the men; in fact, both genders are given non-traditional personality aspects.
And what if those statues were Venus, Diana, Perseus (with Medusa's head), Apollo, Mercury, Hebe and Neptune?You guessed it - a very bizarre story.This is the first book I have read written by Thorne Smith (first published in 1931).
Hawk and this female leprechaun become intimate and she shows him how to turn statues in living people.A hop, skip and a jump later they are bring to life the statues of these Roman Gods - see above - (Smith used the Roman names rather than their Greek names).
Perhaps someone should slip a copy to programming people at HBO, Starz and Showwtime and let them fight over it.I'd certainly watch that series!Anyroad, if you can find a copy, grab it and read it.
It won't take long to get used to Smith's unique style and it's a great, diabolically clever read.
The first 139 pages get 2 stars (it's just a bunch of meanless meandering, saved only by witty dialogue) but the rest of the book gets a solid 4 stars.
I was mind-numbingly bored until the ancient gods & goddesses came to life in early 1930s New York City.
The dialogue is a winner throughout, filled with naughty double entendres & witty puns...it reads like the script of a top-notch 1930s screwball comedy.
As far as plot, there really isn't one; it's just a series of various midadventures the gods & goddesses and their human friends find themselves in (when they're not swilling bathtub gin).
i don't recall, now, how i ever came across his work.
as much as i loved "rain in the doorway" and "topper," "the night life of the gods" is his bawdiest, most inventive, laugh-out-loud funniest, and tenderly, wistfully heartbreaking novel; a comical excoriation of the day's social mores, this book, more than any of his others, is the summation of his genius.
i've yet to read his "the glorious pool" -- or even find it -- though i've read other reviews which proclaim IT to be his best work.
i'd say that if it's better than "night life of the gods," it's damned good.
This glorious comic novel is the first 'adult' book I ever read - it is my family's favourite novel.
Growing up, I was sure that I was Megaera, and was permanently on the lookout for my own Hunter Hawk.
It took a while to separate fiction from so-called-reality, and I'm not sure I have even yet.
Nor am I sure Thorne Smith ever did, or wanted to.
I love love love Thorne Smith.
ps I should say that tight plotting is not one of Thorne's absolute best skills, but who cares when he's that charming.
Criticizing an Explosion, Blotto's Tail Astounds, Reluctant Statues, The Little Man and the Scarecrow, A Furious Reception, The Invasion of Hawk's Bed, Playful Petrification, Meg Removes her Pulloffs, A Nude Descends the Stairs, An Epidemic of Escapes, The Pursuing Beard, Looking the Gods Over, The Gods Step Down, The Gods Get Dressed, The Gods Get Housed, Neptune Gets His Fish, Meg, Mercury, & Betts, Inc., A Demoralizing Tank Party, The Gods Leave Town, Battle and Flight, The Gods on Trial, The Last Sigh
It's possible you just need to be at the right point in your life for this book, and I'm too far past that.It was zany and madcap, but for a book that was intended to be humorous, it got perhaps two chuckles from me, and that's about it. I found the characters largely mean-spirited and not the kind of people I'd want anything to do with, so their frathouse shenanigans really weren't all that entertaining.
Completely charming and refreshingly lacking a starchy "moral" core. Have never read anything like it. Because it doesn't have a particular ax to grind doesn't meet it's without satiric targets or points to be made. Although at times the turns of phrase obscured the action a bit, there's so much action to be had I'm not complaining. Pleasantly surprised at how much sex, nudity and mayhem for mayhem's sake there was. Hooray for Thorne Smith!
Dated (to Prohibition), rather focussed (on drinking, crime, and sex, in about that order). Rather blasphemous, especially to poor Diana (who is not a virgin in this story). Not very explicit, considering that many characters are constantly fornicating. Romantic and quasi-serious and a bit sad, right at the end.
