https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6647312-nothing
this is teen fiction, so the weapons being pelted are plums, and everyone gets to keep their arms (for now), but that doesn't mean this is sweet valley high: there will be blood and sacrifice and deep dark nihilism in these 13-year-olds before we are through.this is my favorite type of story, where kids revert to savagery when they are put into an isolating situation.
they begin to accumulate a "pile of meaning", willingly giving up what matters to them in order to prove him wrong, because he is starting to get into their heads and cause doubt.
"You'll find out you're a clown in a trivial circus where everyone tries to convince each other how vital it is to have a certain look one year and another the next. And then you'll find out that fame and the big wide world are outside of you, and that inside there's nothing, and always will be, no matter what you do." I have been saving this book for years. It's one of those books that had enough glowing reviews and literary accolades to make me almost certain I would like it. Not only that, b
It's one of those books that had enough glowing reviews and literary accolades to make me almost certain I would like it.
I'm rather inclined to believe the world is meaningless; or at the very least has a certain abstract meaning that is defined by individual perspective and experience.
I understand that this novel is primarily intended to provoke philosophical thinking, but I believe it would have been far more effective if we were allowed to warm to someone in the novel and develop an emotional connection with them - something I personally feel was lacking.
Libro aceptable pero que se queda corto; no va más allá de lo mediocre y conocido. Recomendado, pero solo para pasar el rato. No aporta nada.
just this week -- i was riding the bus on my way to school.
and as i was sitting there and pondering about life (aren't i the intellectual?), i noticed this guy who was sitting in the row in front of me, who was doing something with his hands.
he couldn't seem to stop his nervous gestures.
so i looked.
(of course i looked.)dude was scratching on practically every exposed skin surface on his body.
rubbed his eyes till they were red.
a minute ticked away.
ten minutes.
he did not stop.
and i tried desperately not to see anything out of the corner of my eyes.
Buy two copies. Burn one and keep the ashes in a matchbox on your desk. You'll want the second to reread.A fearlessly written novel. Every time I turned the page, I thought--is the author really going to go there? And then she did.I'm adding it to my list of all-time favorite books. Not because I liked it--I'm still not sure whether I did. It's inherently an unlikeable novel, populated by vicious and unsympathetic children. But it made me think.
Anyways, the review:Nothing is about a group of 7th grade kids, trying to prove that there is meaning in life.
As the story goes on, each in turn forces another to give up "something" that means a lot to them.
Not a good creeped out, but the creeped out that while reading, I kept thinking "This is awful.
Like I mentioned before, eerily fascinating.
I WARNED YOU.) The worst for me started when a girls innocence was demanded.
The little girl was demanded to give away her virginity?!
I mean, how could that ever be demanded?!
He stands up, leaves and starts spending his days sitting in a plum tree and jeering at his former classmates about the meaningless of everything.
The jacket copy and some reviews talk about this book as being like Lord of the Flies.
When these kids go all 'savage' their fury isn't because they have stepped (been thrown, to appropriate a Heideggarian term, which is ok since this novel is existential in many ways) to a point past 'civilization'; to a malaise that could be appropriately called post-survival: the idea that life is meaningless and what one does when they are confronted with this proposition.
I could tell you every little ugly-nasty-yucky detail about this book ---in 5 minutes if you are really THAT curious ---(ask me if you need to know) ---but don't waste your time -or money supporting this book.
I have no problem with the 'concept' the philosophical question of whether life has meaning or not ---(by 7th grade kids) --- I think its a little silly for adults to debate this question.
The BEST part of the book is the title: *NOTHING*!!!!REALLY---the author should be ashamed of herself.
---And ---as an adult--I do not need this book either!
I didn’t like this book at all.The story is set in a small town in Denmark and it starts this one day when 13-year-old Pierre Anthon stands up in the middle of the classroom and says: Nothing matters.
I think it is flawed in terms of executing its basic premise, the development of the story is contrived and manipulative and the writing is irritating to say the least.The reader is supposed to accept that a bunch of 7th graders gets around their really small town over a long period of time (months and months) doing these things completely unnoticed and unchecked by their parents, neighbours and teachers because one kid is up in a tree yelling things at them?
Нищо.Май нататък ще има спойлери, но нали и без това всеки знае как ще свършат нещата(генерално), защо точно спойлерите да имат смисъл.И все пак...***(нямам идея до къде се показва първия откъс на стените ви, така че използвам момента да дам още 5 звездички на книгата)**Малка и сладка групичка дечица влиза в час и едно малко по- умничко и сладко детенце изведнъж изнася много ефикасен урок за начало на годината.
Горките.Какво правят: Започват с най- простата борба срещу нищото, но бързо разбират, че няма как да се бориш с нищото.
ей така, за да има с какво да я сравня :)Струва ли си четенето – да.
Estoy segura de que "Nada" es el primer libro que leo y no sé que puntuación darle.No se si me ha gustado o me ha horrorizado.Tiene tanta filosofía en sus páginas como actos bizarros y horribles.Pero a la vez no comprenderíamos ningún significado, si el libro no estuviera plagado de ese lado oscuro.Realmente estoy traumatizada porque no me atrevo a decir si apruebo o no este libro.
One 7th grader decides nothing is worth it and climbs a tree.
Why doesn't one climb the tree and join him?
They all go home every evening to their parents, so the reader is left to believe that all of their parents are deaf to the world of their kids, and no conversations about "meaning in life" or active engagement in meaningful life activities are to be had by any of them.
I have heard people say, in defense of this multiple award-winning story, that it provokes discussion.
Any story that provokes a worthwhile discussion has some nugget for the reader to chew on.
Преди около година разбрах, че начинът, по който мисля, и нещата, в които вярвам, си имат име (нихилизъм) и че има и други хора, които мислят по този начин.
И въпреки че аз гледам на нещата много по-позитивно и не съм толкова убедена, колкото Пиер Антон, книгата ми хареса страшно много.
Ако нещо е наистина важно за теб, няма ли просто да приемеш, че нищо няма смисъл, в името на това да не изгубиш единственото нещо, което има смисъл за теб?
Не знам.
Обърках се."Играта" им (не знам как да я нарека иначе...
Ако книгата ви е харесала, ви го препоръчвам.
Generalmente, cuando alguien decide que ya nada importa, el que los demás lo vean o no carece de importancia, finalmente esas personas son nada igualmente y, por tanto, lo que crean no tiene importancia, si deciden seguir su insignificante vida o dejarse al vacío como el primero en concebir ese pensamiento, le es totalmente ajeno, pero aquí nos muestran a un Pierre que busca, necesita, hacerle notar a sus compañeros la insignificancia de la vida, es como si la única manera de hacer real esa verdad es que otros la adopten, y esta dispuesto a enchincharlos hasta que la vean, desgraciadamente Teller hace un pésimo trabajo describiendo a este chico que es el elemento central de la historia, más allá de que ha notado que todo carece de significado y significancia, vive en una comuna hippie junto con sus padres oficinistas, y que tiene 14 años, no se menciona nada relevante acerca de él y eso terminá siendo más que patético para la historia porque deja una parte importante completamente vacía.
hay relatos morbosos y sadicos que llegan a ser cautivantes, este solo me dio asco, sin gracia y me mato, principalmente porque cuando meten animalitos yo sufro.La historia nunca me toco la fibra ni me trastorno, solo me afecto lo de los animales en mayor nivel y un poquito menos el tema de sofie y del hermano profanado.
tanto drama para que él muchachito terminara como todos esperabamos o por lo menos yo siempre pense que su final seria ese o alguno mucho peor.
«Mucho peor fue, sin embargo, que eso sembrara en mí una sombra de duda acerca de si Pierre Anthon había dado con algo importante: que el significado es relativo y por tanto vacío de significado.Pero no dije nada.»  Le estuve dando vueltas y vueltas, tratando de saber cómo empezar a reseñar esto…pero se que no lo voy a poder reseñar bien. No puedo porque en realidad siento que mis palabras no van a poder describir este libro. El libro no es para todos,simplemente es un libro que puede remover
Por mi parte, es un libro que me dejó pensando y cuando un libro me deja pensando…es porque vale la pena.Nothing comienza cuando Pierre Anthon, un chico de 14 años,descubre que nada importa  y decide retirarse de la clase dejando a sus compañeros totalmente confundidos.Pierre, se sube a un ciruelo y desde ahí empieza a gritarle cosas a sus compañeros cada vez que tiene oportunidad.
El problema comienza cuando esas cosas se vuelven más macabras de lo que se pensaba.La historia está narrada en 1º persona por Agnes, una chica bastante simple, que nos cuenta detalladamente todas las situaciones que realizan estos chicos.
DI-VI-NO. Mi cuento contemporaneo favorito.PER-FEC-TO.
Alla lunga l'accumulo di oggetti - la catasta del significato - non può essere più nascosta e gli adulti reagiscono in modo strano: invece di sanzionare lo strano e violento gioco lo rendo opera d'arte contemporanea.Ma cosa ne pensa Pierre Anthon, il ragazzo per cui il tutto è stato costruito?
I compagni non sono riusciti a convincerlo, per lui nulla ha una ragione, nemmeno le cose a cui essi hanno rinunciato per metterle nella catasta, a sua completa disposizione, in bella vista, ogni cosa un simbolo di ciò che per loro ha un peso.
Para ajudar, a história vai apresentando os elementos em crescendo de horror e espanto, o que nos mantém cada vez mais interessados e expectantes, sobre o que poderá acontecer a seguir.A base do conflito surge pela luta entre o Nada e o significante, ou seja, entre a ausência de propósito para a vida e a definição desse propósito naquilo que em toda a nossa realidade nos é mais caro e imprescindível.
Apesar de se colocar um aluno apenas em defesa do Nada e do outro lado toda uma turma contra, com visões próprias, diversas e distintas, a ideia central de que o significante está dentro de nós acaba por ser de certo modo abafada pela necessidade de exteriorizar materialmente essas visões, ou significantes.
Er. Ow. And possibly "ack!"I kind of got blind-sided by this one, at least at first. The description of the boy in the plum tree yelling philosophy at his classmates has me expecting something a bit more serio-comic. But the situation gets dark very quickly, and even before things get really horrible it's easy to see that's where it's going. Although the characters are early teens, I recommend giving it a read through before handing it over to any sensitive thirteen year olds, or sensitive souls of any age.
Just... WOW. This was... uhm, I don't even know. Somewhat disturbing I guess, but it also made me really THINK about life and its meaning. I really liked the ending, totally unexpected, but WOW.
Ahora que estudié más detalladamente este libro, entendí que de verdad había muchas cosas muy importantes y de igual manera inteligentes. Un libro que sin duda te deja pensando, te mete ideas locas a la cabeza o también esperanza y algo de luz en tu vida. Para ti ¿Qué es el significado?
Es un libro crudo que requiere que el lector haga más que leerlo, tiene que procesarlo para comprenderlo, es muy simbólico, muy metafórico, muy existencialista.No es una lectura agradable, dejando de lado los grandes temas que cuestiona, es un libro perturbador, morboso y macabro.
Pasa de ser una búsqueda cruel pero inocente del "el significado" a una cada vez más oscura y retorcida, hasta lo criminal.Me dio el mismo sentimiento de impotencia, disgusto y desagrado mezclado con interés autentico que historias como La ola.Le pongo cuatro estrellas pero son tres y media...
y la puntuación es simbólica, quiero algo intermedio, porque no sé realmente cómo puntuarlo.
So deeply bothered that they decide to gather things that do mean something, so they can prove he's wrong.
You need to be able to accept all of that to even have a hope of making it through the story.I finished the book, knowing that the plot was absurd and unrealistic in the extreme, mostly out of morbid fascination.
How much of this is the original author, and how much the translator?
It's a small, thin book, with lots of white space, and morbid fascination can really increase my page count.
But in the end, that morbid fascination was all I got out of it.
Perciò non vale la pena di fare niente, lo vedo solo adesso”.
E per protesta, novello barone rampante, sale sopra un susino per non scendere mai più.La coetanea Agnes racconta il piano organizzato dai compagni di classe per convincere Anton che ha torto: vivere ha senso, si tratta solo di trovarlo e dimostrarlo.
“Quel che stava per succedere era un sacrificio necessario nella battaglia per il significato.”Le manovre della banda adolescente per costruire la “catasta del significato” è frenetica, incessante, parossistica.E gli adulti?
Il ‘come” è materia del racconto, breve e agghiacciante.Attenzione, non fatevi ingannare dalla fluida semplicità narrativa (è linguaggio di adolescente, tutto sommato) : questo è un horror.
Este chico Pierre me hizo entrar en una reflexión que si me ponía a pensarla una y otra vez me desalentaba de todo, una historia corta pero con mucho significado, reflexiva y que pone a pensar y a explorar las grandes preguntas que no tienen respuesta.
Há também outra personagem a quem dado algum destaque - a Sophie - e os restantes personagens do grupo também são bastante diversos em etnias e na religião, criando aqui mais controvérsia.Não dá para falar muito sem revelar tudo mas posso dizer que o livro não é nada previsível, nunca sabemos o que vai acontecer, porque parece não haver limites.
Não sei se o 7º ano na Dinamarca é o mesmo que cá, mas para mim, quem está no 7º ano é uma criança, quanto muito um pré-adolescente, como são chamados agora.
Με διαφορά το καλύτερο βιβλίο που διάβασα τουλάχιστον για την φετινή χρονιά.
Μια περίεργη ιστορία, ξεκινά σαν ένα αλληγορικό παραμύθι παρόμοιο με εφηβικές ιστορίες που διαβάζαμε μεγαλώνοντας.
Μόνο που, η ιστορία αυτή είναι αρκετά πιο σκοτεινή και πολύ πιο ζοφερή.
Έφηβοι που ψάχνουν να βρουν το «νόημα» και τελικά αμφιβάλλουν ακόμα και για την ύπαρξή του...
Δε ξέρω γιατί περάσανε 18 χρόνια μέχρι ένας εκδοτικός οίκος να το φέρει στο ελληνικό κοινό αλλά χαίρομαι πολύ που το έκανε το Οξύ.
Και όχι, δε κάνω διαφήμιση ούτε κερδίζω κάτι από αυτό.
ΥΓ: 5 αστέρια γιατί απλά δεν εχει παραπάνω...
Пълно ревю: https://bookishipster.wordpress.com/2...Една книга за смисъла на съществуването, липсата му и значението, което му отдаваме. Брутално красива история за жертвите, които правим в името на идеала си, която провокира читателите, смазва ги със своето съдържание и ги оставя на произвола на съдбата. Невероятна.
Es un libro que sin duda alguna invita a la reflexión pero por su misma temática, puede dar pie a muchos malos entendidos y prejuicios.Veo varios aspectos que son importantes mencionar:1.- Serios problemas de comunicación: Entre los padres y sus adolescentes pues desde el instante en que comienzan a desaparecer ciertos objetos que se convierten en el "significado", ellos debieron ser conscientes de que algo estaba sucediendo.
