https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/311156.Beauvallet
I had a bit of trouble persuading the Georgette Heyer Fans Group to read this title - I must be losing my touch! :DAlthough this book was always a 3.5-4★ read for me, I can understand why that wouldn't be the case for all readers.GH wrote   earlier about one of buccaneer "Mad" Nick Beavallet's ancestors. GH took her world building very seriously - my 1937 copy of Beauvallet even has a family tree at the back. It is too hard to reproduce the whole thing (its very wide) but here is a snippet; Quit
& GH is known to have had a well developed fantasy life as a teen writing & acting in her own dramas with friends.The thing is, the strong minded GH decided Simon the Coldheart wasn't up to her usual standards & had it suppressed (her son thought his mother had been too hard on it & agreed to "Simon" being republished after her death.)This left Beauvallet to be read as a standalone for generations & I don't think that really worked.For Beauvallet is a very short book & quite a bit of it covers family history.
By the time they reach Spain with a promise from Beauvallet that he would come for her soon, leaves Dominica scared for him life, but as she faces her own villains in the form of her cousin and aunt whom want to marry her off for her money, Dominica still keeps her head and wit about her in order to be with Beauvallet again.
My new favorite Heyer (topping Arabella by a slim margin).Really enjoyed the old-fashioned, swashbuckling appeal of this one, which reads differently then her Regency/Georgian offerings.
Brave deeds of derring-do, espionage and love in the Elizabethan Golden age (prior to Elizabeth's war with Spain) set our English pirate Nick Beauvallet and our Spanish heroine Dona Dominica on a wild, romantic ride.
Great major and minor characters, an improbable plot (but entertaining nonetheless) and a good pace set against the backdrop of Spain and the specter of the Inquisition.There was nothing I didn't love about this tale.
Buddy read with Jeannette (who unfortunately found it a "dud")
This is quite different from Heyer's other books that I've read.
It's set in Elizabethan times rather than around the Regency or Georgian eras, and involves England's conflict with Spain.
This was necessary to provide a reason for Beauvallet to travel into Spain, where certain death awaited him if discovered.
The first part of the book could have been used much better for this instead of being boring.
But, once Beauvallet actually headed into Spain, it picked up, and daring escapes ensued.
He should've dropped her in the ocean.I only read on because it was for book group, but I'm glad that I did.By the third part, she's in the clutches of the villain, Nick's hard on her heels to save her, and I suddenly liked her a great deal more.
The scene where she defies the villain at the hunting lodge, she fairly crackles with dignity and courage.In the middle of the book, Dominica is mostly off-screen, and the story is swashbuckling and adventure as Nick gallavants about, merrily murdering people and laughing in the face of danger.
I wish there had been more of her!Altogether the story and characters were a little thin for a book, but it would make a terrific film.
In all honesty, I would rate most of Heyer's other stories above this one. The plot was flat and predictable. Still, there were good characterizations, (I will admit to laughing at the greedy, but totally honest about it, aunt), and the swashbuckling was great. What else do you want from me? I wasn't expecting the Spanish Inquisition—God alone knew what might be done to Beauvallet. She had heard that those who fell into the clutch of the Inquisition were sometimes never heard of again.
I am a fan of Heyer.
I am a little disappointed with Beauvallet.
Yes, there is an action, a romance, sparking characters and some fun.
But, something is lacking for me.
I have even read a few random pages from Devil's Cub (one of my favorite Heyer's books) to check if I am not exaggerating.
Something is lacking in Beauvallet.
Characters are (as I have written) chosen well.
Maybe I will understand more when I read a biography of Heyer.The most I like the part on the ship.
(hide spoiler)]Nevertheless, I can tell that every fan of Heyer should read this book.
This certainly wasn't my favourite Heyer novel so far, given the hero's grabby hands and ego, but at least the heroine was a match for him in many ways, and it is a fun set up.
That plot, I liked: I wonder what Heyer would have done if that was her focus.While this isn't as amusing as most of her work, and the romance wasn't exactly to die for, I did enjoy it well enough.
It's only the fact that I know Heyer also wrote The Talisman Ring and The Grand Sophy, both of which I love, that means this rather pales in comparison.
So then Beauvallet invades Spain with an army of 2 to steal away his love and thumb his nose at some arrogant Spanish papists.
I thought Mad Nick was a suave, piratical hero and Dominica a decently fiesty heroine (i.e., not 21st-century-modern-fiesty but rebellious in ways a woman might be in that era--at least to my romance-educated eyes!).
4. I wish Dominica would have had the chance to go ape-shit on Diego.
:( At one point in the novel, she wishes she were a man so she could revenge Beauvallet properly--but there's no follow through of that thought.
I first read Beauvallet several years ago on a train leaving the capital for home.
Wildly improbable, action-packed and exciting, this book will surprise anybody who has only read Heyer's regency novels.Nicholas Beauvallet is a descendant of Simon the Coldheart, also featured in a novel of the same name by Georgette Heyer, and a definite chip off the same block.
Cue many adventures as Mad Nicholas braves the King of Spain, the Spanish nobility, Dominica's own family and the Inquisition to bring her to England.I was genuinely surprised by how much I liked this book.
This is a distinctive novel from Georgette Heyer, totally swashbuckling!
The heroine started up badly, as I thought she would be another too young, naive and slightly stupid heroine, typical of some Heyer's heroines.
Indeed she was not: she engratiated quickly too me, with her humour, tentative to manipulate people around her with more or less success.Dialogues were funny as usual, secondary characters quirky, the basic plot rather simple but nonetheless effective.
It's shorter, the romance slightly less abstract and disembodied than usual but I really enjoyed it.
The book is full of wonderful characters, wry humor, witty scenes and clever dialog.
While the romance is sweet, and a driving force behind the action, this book is different from many of Heyer's other works.
The first part of the book unfolds the romance, and the second half follows Beauvallet as he attempts to keeps his word to find Dominica and bring her to England.
The story is action-packed and often very humorous.
Joshua, Beauvallet's "man," is a great character and we get to see part of the story from his point-of-view.
I have always been enthralled by Heyer's one 16th century historical romance.
While Nick Beauvallet and his servant play more prominent roles than the heroine, she holds her own in terms of spirit and intelligence.This is one I reread and enjoy often.
As with some of her Regencies, the addition of "real" characters such as Philip II and Sir Francis Drake, adds another enjoyable element, as does the threat of the Spanish Inquisition should Nick be apprehended by his enemies.
The concept of honor, as defined by an Elizabethan pirate, is essential to the plot although is hard for some modern readers to appreciate.
3  stars. Not much romance or relationship development, but good as an entertaining swashbuckling adventure.STORY BRIEF:Sir Nicholas Beauvallet (Nick) practices piracy upon the Spanish as a form of unofficial warfare – at the behest of Queen Elizabeth I. He is captain of the Venture. The Spanish believe he achieves the impossible through witchcraft. When he captures a Spanish ship, he takes Dominica and her father aboard his own ship as guests. He promises to deliver them safely to the Spanish c
Not much romance or relationship development, but good as an entertaining swashbuckling adventure.STORY BRIEF:Sir Nicholas Beauvallet (Nick) practices piracy upon the Spanish as a form of unofficial warfare – at the behest of Queen Elizabeth I.
Then most of the story is how he gets a fake identity, travels to Spain, gets captured, escapes, and what he does when he finds Dominique.REVIEWER’S OPINION:This is mostly about a daring courageous pirate who loves adventure and risking his life.
The romance was fast-paced, the adventure was exciting, and the language was eloquent.
Georgette has many little surprises spread all through the story and tells amazing creative adventures of Beauvallet’s wits, fights, and escapes.
It was a little hard to get inside the character’s heads at first, but once I learned who they were It was very easy to relate to them.A wonderful thing about Beauvallet is that when El Beauvallet falls in love with Dominica, he does not claim her as his “love” or as his “mistress” or, in our culture, his “girlfriend,” he claims her as his bride.
The end was so sweet I won’t tell what happened but rest assured it was wonderful.I loved this story so much!
Though written well before Errol Flynn made The Sea Hawk, I dare you to read this and >not< picture Flynn as dashing Nick Beauvallet.
For me the whole book unfolds as if I were watching an old Errol Flynn or Tyrone Power swashbuckler (in Technicolor, of course).The opening naval battle and ship-boarding bears a great resemblance to the opening scenes of Flynn's 1940 film 'The Sea Hawk'.
That bit at the beginning of Nick's fight with Don Diego, when he bends his rapier--straight out of any number of movies of the era.
"Mad Nicholas" Beauvallet is a privateer and favorite of Queen Elizabeth.
Determined to return them to Spain where there is a price on his head, Beauvallet finds himself falling in love with the lovely Dona Dominica, and determines to woo her.
Pirates, monarchs, true love, what is not to love?
The book even references another Heyer novel, Simon The Coldheart, as a sort of predecessor.
Beauvallet had all the charm and courage of The Scarlet Pimpernel which also endeared him to me.
Not a perfect book, but a charming one if you are looking for a romp with romance and adventure!
Honestly at this point, I think she is merely in love with the romance of it.The main part of the book tells of Beauvallet's journey into Spain and his adventures to carry Dominica away with him.
Ms. Heyer keeps the suspense at a high level throughout the second half of the book.Dominica's character isn't perhaps as well developed as she might be, but Beauvallet is just wonderful.
It would be quite fun to have a modern movie made of this book - someone like Benedict Cumberbatch could carry Beauvallet's part very well.Two other characters that really stand out are Joshua, Beauvallet's valet, and Doña Beatrice, Dominica's aunt.
3.5 stars - I wasn’t clicking with this Heyer through most of the book, and would’ve given 2 stars for “ok” on my personal scale, but the last quarter or so brought the rating up for me. Formulaic swashbuckler to me, but in all fairness, Heyer wrote this early in her career. I much prefer her Regencies and mysteries.
High adventure, low on romance. Enjoyed the swashbuckling Beauvallet, but the romance was incredibly underdeveloped. I also enjoyed the writing, and look forward to another Heyer.
I have 39 of her romances (she also wrote about eight detective books with the help of her detective husband, but I've not read any of them); there are about three or four I don't have, though I've read almost all of them.It is 1586 and Dona Dominica and her father, the late governor of the island of Santiago, are returning to Spain by ship when their vessel is captured by a British pirate - by the infamous Sir Nicholas Beauvallet, no less!
British aristocrat younger-son-turned-pirate captures Spanish ship carrying a dying Spanish aristocrat and his lovely, feisty daughter, Doña Dominica de Rada y Sylva, back to Spain from the new world.
(Did I mention this was during the Inquisition?) Beauvallet laughs at danger at every turn, while the intrepid (now orphaned) Dominica attempts to defend herself from a forced marriage being pushed upon her by relatives who need her money, while she worries that her love won't come in time...or that he will, and will be caught and burned at the stake.
I'm a huge Heyer fan but this one took me a bit longer than usual to get into.
It starts out a little slow (although I did really enjoy Beauvallet's visit to his family in the first part) but it picks up half-way through and becomes a fun swashbuckling adventure.
I think the main problem for me were the leads...
they were likable enough but I wasn't in love with them.
I seem to have problems when Heyer heads to Spain for some reason...
I've been reading The Spanish Bride forever!
Still, Heyer at her worst beats most authors at their best.
This is not a silver fork novel, more of an adventure in the Geoffrey Farnol tradition, based on real events. I don't think Heyer had the skills to pull it off: her research of facts is impeccable, but she doesn't understand the paradigm, so her characters read as cardboard cutouts.
Wanted to give three and a half stars.This is a heyer I have never read, yet it took me a time to warm to it.
A swashbuckling goes its really good and would make a good film.I don't know why I didn't love it as I normally do G heyers , the language ?setting?
I also disliked the fact that all the Spanish were either devious, bloodthirsty , sinister or base not one of them was not to be despised..maybe that was it..Must read other reviews as a romance it is top notch but wouldn't read it again while I have read all other Heyers numerous times...
If you took Zorro and Pirates of the Caribbean and combined them, you would get this book! I LOVED it! So exciting and romantic and adventurous. I have found a new favorite author and can't wait to read more!
They have no real personalities - they aren't anything like real people.Beauvallet is (supposedly) reckless, clever, infuriating, charming, and just generally a dashing, wonderful hero.
In actual fact, he gallivants around the seas killing people and stealing their belongings ('oh, but it's gallant, after all they're from another country *gasp*)He meets a random Spanish woman and promises her that within a year he'll find her and 'turn her into an English woman'.
At the inn, a French man tries to steal their horses.
Apparently, 'he tried to kill [Beauvallet] first'.
I don't think stealing is right, but that still gives Beauvallet absolutely no right to kill the man!I could go on, but there are too many things that bothered me.
Classic Georgette Heyer in swashbuckling mode—which I normally like.
The action is good, the settings and costumes wonderfully realized, and the dialogue sparkling, as always.
Very much like her eighteenth-century novels in style, but set 200 years earlier.Even so, I find the two leads rather one-note and predictable.
And Sir Nicholas’s exploits, while fun to read, at times defy belief.So worth reading, but if this is your first Heyer, I’d recommend starting somewhere else.
Among the swashbucklers, The Masqueraders and The Talisman Ring are much more fun.
“Mad Nicholas” prefers sailing his ship and troubling the Spanish galleons to enjoying the wealth he has gained and the family estate in England.On one of his excursions, Nick captures a Spanish galleon carrying Doña Dominica de Rada y Sylvan, a young maiden returning to Spain with her ailing father.
Instantly he is in love with Dominica, who is quite a brat at first, and vows to return her and her father to Spain.
The man to whom her aunt would wed Dominica is loathsome to her.Nick was well loved in England.
Which explains why Don Juan puts his ship at risk even though he’s carrying the ex-governor of Santiago and his daughter.Nick’s promise to set the governor and his daughter, Doña Dominica, onto Spanish soil simply confirms his bravado.
Doña Dominica hopes this is enough to sustain her while she awaits Beauvallet’s arrival in Spain to carry her off to England.
After making the royal and family rounds, Nick heads back to Spain undercover for Walsingham as he seeks his bride.
