https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/70133.Architecture
Εξαιρετικό εγχειρίδιο αρχιτεκτονικής, η παράθεση πολλών σκίτσων καθιστά την ανάγνωση πιο ευχάριστη και το κείμενο πιο κατανοητό. Μελετά και πραγματεύεται τη μορφή, το χώρο, το ρυθμό, τις κινήσεις...ακόμη και την απλή γεωμετρία της γραμμής, του επιπέδου και του όγκου από πολλαπλές πλευρές και αποκαλύπτει εργαλεία και εκφάνσεις της αρχιτεκτονικής που δεν διαπιστώνονται εύκολα, κυρίως στους μη-σχετικούς με τον αρχιτεκτονικό τομέα. Λόγω του απλού, λιτού και περιγραφικού του λόγου είναι ιδανικό για φοιτητές αρχιτεκτονικής και ειδικότερα όταν βρίσκονται στην αρχή των σπουδών τους, αλλά ακόμη και για όποιον θέλει να κοιτάξει και να αντιληφθεί την αρχιτεκτονική από μία διαφορετική οπτική γωνία.
never aclaimed that you know or ever learning architecture if you never read...i mean really read this book. this book is like the first book to every architect or architact student in the world. a very nice book with alot of sketch that visually fun to read. easyly understood. and it become the stong influence to all the architect hand writings. i should say this book is a legendary book
'Architecture: Form, Space and Order' by Francis D.K. Ching is the perfect introduction to design.
Ching walks the reader through elementary design concepts starting with points and lines, and ending with hierarchy and datum as methods of order.
For someone with no prior knowledge of design, it was nice to have basic concepts explained so clearly.
Ching also does well at building the vocabulary of the subject.
Today you can find the letter from this book as the font "tekton." This book is great for those who hope to one day use apply these concepts, but it's also the perfect book for those interested in gaining an understanding of the built environment that they connect with everyday.
I have read both ching books and lawson books about architecture and design. of course they look at their field from their own perspective; but there is something odd about them. ching's books look like more practical and lawson's look so theorical. but when you get to design something, it turns out you may use what you read in lawson's books more often!I cannot make a connection between designing and what ching says in his books. you can introduce architecture and design to non-architects and non-designers pretty well; but you will never "learn" designing through ching's books.
An excellent introduction of explaining the principals of architechture, the basic elements of architecture, and a perspective of the building and other elements surrounding it, wih sketches and quotes about architecture. Very simple, easy to read. Highly recommended for all architecture students. it was useful during my second semester of architecture. <3
I wish I had discovered this one during my years of studying architecture. It is still a reference to which I go back every now and then to refresh my memory. I would recommend it to every architecture student, or anyone related to the industry...A precious one !
Ching starts with the most basic elements of geometry--points, lines, planes, volumes--and demonstrates how they can be combined and organized to create architectural forms.
Each topic is introduced, discussed, and illustrated with both simple drawings and schematics along with renderings of famous architectural landmarks that demonstrate the principles in question.
It should be kept in mind that the goal of the book is to examine the underlying properties of architecture (geometry, proportion, arrangement) and not to introduce architecture history or movements.
If you want to understand the geometry underlying architecture, this is where you should start.
I cannot be objective about this book. It was my first introduction to architectural form and my first college text book. The drawings made me want to work harder and become a better designer. It might be a novel perusal for someone with a strong interest in architecture, but probably won't be that interesting to those outside the profession.
Gorgeous illustrations, very clear concepts... Love this book. One of the best design resources still available to architects and designers.
Your guide to Architecture 101. Simple and clear with a lot of examples.It was a big help for my projects.
آموزش زبان معماري و دنياي مفاهيم و اصول مقدماتي آن به همراه تصاويري عالي كه حتي خواننده ي عادي را هم جذب كتاب مي كند.كتاب در عين سادگي، فوق العاده است و همانند يك كلاس آموزشي تمام عيار عمل مي كند.
I first had this book assigned for my first Design Workshop, I had to copy the diagrams and sketches.
Since then I have always browsed it's pages for inspiration, or leisure, anyway I always learn something new.
One can never actually be done reading this book.
Though it is a book meant for architecture students, I believe it's simplicity of language makes it very accessible to the general public as well.
I would recommend this book to any amateur or lego who wants to learn to appreciate and understand architecture.
even though the first time the book seems really useless regarding learning about fundamentals of points ,line and architecture principals.Then, after having lots of studio works and design classes .its somehow helping me to describe , to know , to talk about what architecture should take .Its an enlightenment from become a carpenter . but seriously i'm enjoying all the dk ching sketches .
ahh..buku ini..pernah saya hafal setiap lembar isi buku ini.di setiap tugas saya pasti membuka buku ini sebagai preseden.terlebih ketika masa-masa tugas akhir.sekali lagi,saya tahu bagian apa di halaman apa.panduan bentuk dan tata ruang arsitektur paling mujarab.walau saya hanya memiliki fotokopiannya,tapi tetap buku ini menjadi buku paling favorit untuk saya mengerjakan tugas-tugas kuliah dulu bahkan sekarang ketika saya sudah bekerja.
Very interesting book - it provides information about basic blocks of architecture, and I think it's good base for the next book in my reading list: A Global History of Architecture
Architecture is really hard to understand,when it comes to the basics,it might be even more difficult to understand.But thanks to the author he made it so easy to understand.I learned a lot from this book.Every student in the field of design should read this book.
I'm an architecture student in my first year and this book is really useful. It clarifies certain aspects and how you can put them to use. But the main reason why I love it is because the drawings are all handmade with such precision, I'm in awe!
In brief, Ching was a genius guy !thank you for your writings Mr-Ching ^^boya :D
THIS IS A BEST BOOK TO LEARN AN BECOME AN ARCHITECT...:)
The technical drawings are fantastic.
when are you truly done reading this?!?!
Great book, if you are starting to study architecture, you need to read this right away...
one of my favorite books..by DK Ching..
In any design or artistic field, the most essential concepts to grasp are the terminologies and language used by those in it. This book does that phenomenally well for Architecture. By the end you'll have a firm grasp on the basic concepts, forms and structures used by architects in the manipulation of space.
Front to back, truly magnificent.Goes surprisingly quick when you get into it, super simple language with complex themes.Ching is a G
Nothing else that can help with designing more. It's a designer's guidebook from scratch. Very helpful from my first year and now for my thesis :D
very interesting
کتابی که خط به خطش روی اصل و پایه تاکید داره و به نظرم یکی از کتاب های خیلی مهمی هستش که هر استادی باید به دانشجوش معرفی کنه
Another fantastic work by a masterful author/student of architecture. It stays on my desk with its brethren, tattered and worn with exhaustive use.
A good introduction to Form, Space and Order in Terms of Architecture. I re-read this book because the Professor of the Online "Introduction to Architecture" Class spread the class out too far and ended up cramming half of the course into the last two weeks. What a doozy that was. I decided to re-read it in order to get the full gist of what the Author was trying to get across.Recommended.
