https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7767276-bridge-of-clay
DNF - 30%This is the first time in a while that I've actually not finished a book.
I should mention that I was one of the few people who liked but didn't love The Book Thief, but I find it hard to believe that Bridge of Clay will be as well-loved as that book.
More power to you if you can actually finish and enjoy it.
At times it felt like Zusak deliberately went out of his way to make the story more confusing and difficult to enjoy.
I'm not going to go on too much in this review, especially as I didn't finish it.
EDIT oct 16: i just wanted to let all 200+ of you know (i mean....where did you all COME from??) that I'm #35 on hold on the 12 copies of this book the vancouver public library is ordering.
time is fake]) i mean i guess i'm glad you're all happy this book is finally coming out lol but the original statement in this review no longer stands because i read I Am The Messenger after writing this and it was AWFUL sorry
I tried the audiobook because it's narrated by the author and I gave it a fair go but I just wasn't into it.
I kept telling myself I should at least finish it but I found my attention wandering because I just wanted it to be done, and that's just a waste of precious reading (listening) time.
I will definitely try and physically read this and see if maybe that experience will be better but, I really don't know.
The writing was beautiful, he really is an incredibly talented author, the story just didn't do anything for me.
HEY MARKUS. HEY.WHERE'S THE BOOK MARKUS?MARKUS. WHERE IS IT?
After their mother dies and their father abandons them, the boys are left to raise themselves in the suburbs of Sydney.
The timeline does jump around a bit, but this doesn't really detract from the story.It also touches on horse racing, and having an interest in the Sydney racing scene it was a bit of a trip down memory lane for me.
I did laugh at the racehorse called Engadine (yes Markus and I share the same hometown, though I don't personally know him!)All in all, Bridge Of Clay is a wonderful, riveting book, and I have no hesitation in recommending it.My thanks to NetGalley and the publisher for an ARC in exchange for an honest review.
I won an arc copy of this book in a pub giveaway! I was really confused in this book, more so in the beginning until I got used to how this was being written. The Bridge Of Clay is a book I will have to revisit time and again to get all of the tidbits that we miss at times. Especially in a book like this; family, sorrow, hope, change, love, death. It's life. It's death. It's a family both past and present. It's something I can't put into words, I just feel it. Happy Reading! Mel 🖤🐺🐾
First of all I must say reading this book is hard work.
It is a history of a family presented like a patchwork quilt - a bit here and a bit there, jumping around from person to person, place to place and past to present.
Hard work does pay off however and this is a really beautiful book.
As the story progresses Zusak's characters start to work their way into your heart and the pages just slip past as you begin to discover just what has occurred.
Which is often.This is a book about relationships and about love.
For Patrick Ness, it's  The Rest of Us Just Live Here, for Andrew Smith it's The Marbury Lens, and for Markus Zusak, who has written two of my all-time favorite novels, it's Bridge of Clay.I'm thoroughly disappointed that I wasn't able to enjoy this book even a little bit, because The Book Thief and I Am the Messenger are books I could read again and again and never tire of.
There were numerous instances of chapters ending on statements like "if only we'd known what would happen next" or "the rest of that story is soon to come" and it frustrated me to no end.I also felt like there was no point to the whole book.
I fell in love with his writing in The Book Thief and then The Messenger and now with Bridge of Clay.
I always tell people that going into his book, don't expect them to be anything alike (except for extraordinary writing) because they are all so individual and different from each other, it's actually kind of amazing.
It's very much a character driven book and although you're thrown into this story, right into a house with five brothers and given a tonne of information, you just need to buckle up your seatbelt and keep going.
They went beyond just being a character written in a book, Zusak gave them life.
UPDATE: happy publication day to the book i have been waiting for since 2012!!!! the fact that this is now officially out in the world makes my heart so happy._________________________________not to be dramatic, but i have been waiting an ETERNITY for this. i would literally sell my soul to have this book right now.
Unfortunately he wrote the next big disappointment and I fell from this Bridge of Clay into a sea of disappointment!🌟 Truth to be told, I wasn’t very interested in the synopsis but October was my Contemporary month and what is better to read than a novel by the highly acclaimed author of The Book Thief aka one of my favorite books!🌟 I like when Authors move along their past works and try to bring something new.
That only took, like, a lot of fucking time. But we have a release date.
Five Dunbar boys, the eldest was Matthew (who narrated the story), the fourth was Clay, who seemed to be the most sensitive and socially aware.
Their struggles were many, their ways of grieving all different.Bridge of Clay tells of tragedy and loss; of heartache and hope; and insecurities, not just in the five boys but in their father as well.
I struggled initially with Bridge of Clay – the writing confused me, and I couldn’t get into the flow of the story.
The only thing worse than not liking a book is knowing you are probably in the minority with that opinion. I'm left with a feeling of what did I miss? The plot is good but I just could never get into the writing style. I'll go sit in my corner alone now while everyone else has an amazing reading experience. This just wasn't the right book for me but I do hope others enjoy it. I won a free copy of this book in a giveaway but was under no obligation to post a review.
Je-sus Christ.
What a book.
For anyone who was worried about this following up on that masterpiece The Book Thief, don’t be.
The first 50 pages or so were a bit confusing and hard to follow but once I got past that I was completely sucked in.
Also a word of warning, find a nice private place for the ending, I read this on a plane and it pretty sure the man next to me thought I was having some kind of breakdown I was sobbing so hard.
This is my favourite book of 2018 so far.
And what a woman she was.First, of course, the name she was born with: Penelope Lesciuszko.Then the one christened at her piano: the Mistake Maker.Her factory name was Penny Lessing.Her unfortunate, self-proclaimed nickname was the Broken-Nosed Bride.And last, the name she died with: Penny Dunbar.Quite fittingly, she had travelled from a place that was best described by a certain phrase in the books she was raised on.She came from a watery wilderness.iiMany years ago, and like so many before her, she arrived in the city with a suitcase and a scrunched-up stare.
He does become the bridge in the family even as he helps to physically build a real bridge with stone arches and all.Wonderful writing, and truly, it all does come together somehow, but I understand some readers don’t let it wash over them long enough for it to soak in.
After all, take five boys, put them in one small house, and see what it looks and sounds like: it’s a porridge of mess and fighting.”What parent hasn’t either enjoyed, or wished they could enjoy, being in cahoots with another adult when there’s a roomful of kids?I finished reading this a little while ago, and I'm still living with this family.
Bridge of Clay is about 5 brothers who live alone.
But, the star of the book is Clay, the fourth boy, who is trying to build this bridge.
Suddenly we're thrown into it not knowing who is who, and what's going on.
Before you know it, you start to feel and care for this family.
It's very different than what I grew up in, so it took me some time to adjust to the dynamics of a 5 brothers, big family.
I gave it 4 stars because of the hard start, and some parts of the book that were too slow (like the horse racing part).
instead, i got an overly-long, self-indulgent, emotionally-void collection of pages.from the beginning, the prose was very heightened and odd, full of strange, colory metaphors that had less an effect for me of adding anything substantial than of inundating me.
i'd go through and pick out a well-seasoned section to quote, but it's so consistent that, honestly, pick up the book, flip to a random page, and start reading the first scene you find.
i think what markus was going for was taking a slightly conventional story about loss (at least in terms of the main plot) and presenting it in a new way, but i don't think he succeeded in that mission.it took 300 pages for me to care, even slightly, about any of the brothers.
honestly i can’t imagine how hard it must have been for zusak to write another book after the IMMENSE success of “the book thief”. like the struggle after the bars have been set so high BY YOURSELF. but I’m 110% here for this book and just. can’t. wait. for release.
Edit: This was originally going to be released while I was in year 10.
EDIT: CTUYHAJKLHDGNSKLHESBDNLGK>NMKSD>Its September 1 today, and Zusak hasn't even finished writing the book!
The biggest blurb/teaser I can find: Bridge of Clay is a teen novel by Australian author Markus Zusak, to be published by Doubleday and released on September 1, 2011.
That's all I can say about it for now - not out of secrecy, but you just don't know what direction a book is going to take, no matter how well you've planned.I am incredibly excited.
About fuckin time!!! SO HAPPY ABOUT THIS NEWS! And it sounds beautifully heart-wrenching.
I'm probably one of the very few people on this planet who hasn't read The Book Thief or any other Zusak novel, so I had no particular expectations.
Knowing how many people loved The Book Thief I wanted to find out if I'll become a Zusak fan myself, therefore I promptly requested this on NetGalley.Man, oh man, how I struggled in the beginning.
I got to know the characters, although, even that took some time, anyway, the novel became more readable.
It was too much work for little reward, as it failed to wow me and get my full emotional investment.I've received this novel via NetGalley, in exchange for an honest review.
Bridge of Clay follows five brothers as they face abandonment from their father, and the ultimate quest for forgiveness and what it means to be a family.
The story is so complicated and convoluted, with a style of prose I really hate, so that descriptions become paragraphs with long metaphorical meanings.
It also jumps between past, present and future which I found incredibly frustrating and difficult to follow.
I mean, one of the brothers becomes obsessed with bridge building, and not the metaphorical kind, which unfortunately I was never going to find appealing.
By the 1/3 mark I'd convinced myself to keep going, and somewhere beyond the halfway point I decided it was actually quite a good story.
My problem was the effort it took as a reader to achieve the expected level (just normal, not rapturous) of gratification.So let's say I didn't like the first 200 pages (or thereabouts).
And it wasn't just the boys, there were actually a lot of characters - human and animal - introduced in that first section, and it was really hard to keep track of them.
Not for first-time readers of Zusak!* If anyone can explain to me what was going on with the bridge during that storm, please let me know!!
This is easily one of the best books I have read this year. The writing is phenomenal. It's a quiet story about family and forgiveness that I will not be forgetting any time soon.
when this comes out, it better be THE BOOK THIEF good and not I AM THE MESSENGER disappointingI have faith in you Markus Zusak 🙏
I’m still trying to understand what I’ve just read. Suffice it to say, though, I was not blown away. I’m heartbroken. I really thought I’d be.
Markus Zusak, the phenomenally popular Australian writer, worked on “Bridge of Clay” for two decades, essentially his whole adult life.
The narrator, Matthew, is just old enough to act as his brothers’ guardian in a town that expresses little concern for the well-being of these abandoned boys.
Their house ripens into “a porridge of mess and fighting,” something between a locker room and a barnyard, where a mule has free rein of the kitchen.
Barbarians,” Matthew says.
“We swore like bastards, fought like contenders, and punished each other.”Zusak pours unbridled joy and chaotic violence into this house with its scrum of boys.
Bridge of Clay is acclaimed, prize-winning author Markus Zusak's long-awaited follow-up to the spectacular The Book Thief which was first published in 2006, and while it wasn't as enjoyable as that, there is still much to admire about it.
When I read that Zusak had decided to write in exactly the way he wanted to on matters close to his heart knowing that no matter the book or the story, you simply cannot please everyone, I was full of admiration.
This appears to be a story you will either love or hate, a classic "marmite" novel if you will.
