https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2305197.Heads_You_Lose
3.5★I'll start by saying I prefer reading uncensored. If a few offensive words or expressions are edited out, who knows what else could be changed?But Brand's first anti-Semitic comment (yes, there was more than one) was tossed out so casually. For me this made it all the more shocking. This may explain why Brand's adult books are now so hard to find.Before the book begins we are given a character list, which finishes with; Among these very ordinary people were found two victims and a murderer.
This may explain why Brand's adult books are now so hard to find.Before the book begins we are given a character list, which finishes with;
Among these very ordinary people were found two victims and a murderer.
(hide spoiler)]An easy quick read and interesting as a depiction of life in wartime Britain.
I enjoyed enough to search out Brand's best known adult book, Green for DangerEdit; 18/8/17 Just to clarify (after discussion with other members of the Reading the Detectives Group )Brand has her characters think or say racist things.
This doesn't mean Brand herself is racist.
This is the first Inspector Cockrill book and, as so often in Golden Age Detective stories, we are in the familiar territory of the house party.
Indeed, shortly after the story begins, one of the members of the party are found horribly decapitated and it seems that someone from among the group must be the murderer.
However, if you enjoy Golden Age Detective fiction, you will undoubtedly be able to overlook these modern sensibilities and enjoy the story for what it is and when it was written.
The anti-Semitism was bad, the classism worse, but both were of the period. It was the mystery itself, trite and overwrought, with red herrings screaming "Look at me!", that was unforgivable.
(********** this computer)I've long loved the movie of Green for Danger (http://www.imdb.com/title/tt0038577/?...) and had that book on my shelf for several years.
Love the part where they are at the inquest and the coroner is going over the injuries and various members of the jury have to excuse themselves to go lose their lunch.Pendock has several people visiting, an old lady, her two granddaughters, a husband of one of them and another friend, and a lady from across the way finagles her way into the house to paint a picture that she has only painted like a thousand times already.
3.5* I enjoyed this first Inspector Cockrill mystery, which was a quick read. It wasn't as good as the only other one I have read, Green For Danger; I think Cockrill being friends with the suspects hampered things a bit.
Without his anthology, The Long Arm of the Law: Classic Police Stories, I should never have heard of British author Christianna Brand or of her clever creation, Inspector Cockerill.
He so charmed me with his mocking deflation of a retired police blowhard in “After the Event” that I simply had to have more Cockerill.
Heads You Lose’s release in 1941 marked the first appearance of Inspector Cockerill.
The gruff but clever and fair policeman is a fine addition to the cozy cop genre; however, the casual anti-Semitism (so widespread at the time) and the utterly ridiculous ending will put off quite a few readers.
It's a safe bet, then, that she kept this one to herself.What appears at first to be the classic house-party murder is rather darker than the run of Christie and Sayers and co., as two women are beheaded in the most grisly manner.
The wealthy are still wealthy, and spend their time playing cards and dancing to the gramophone; there's still a very 1920s-30s feel about the story.It surprises me that Brand is so little known in the world of mystery fans--I have been an avid reader of whodunnits since about age 10 and this is the first of her works that I've come across.
The first book featuring Inspector Cockrill, this Golden Age mystery was first published in 1941.
Against the backdrop of WWII, a group of friends have gathered in a country manor house, the Pideonsford Estate.
But perhaps some friendships aren’t all that close, and soon heads begin to roll.
Literally.
When Cockrill arrives to investigate, secrets begin to surface and motives appear.
Heads You Lose is a classic Golden Age mystery by one of the greatest of all writers of fair play detective stories—perfect for fans of Agatha Christie.
Classic Murder mystery fiction. A lovely glimpse at how these books were once written. An excellent piece of reading for writers doing research into the British Upper middle Classes during WWII.Clever writing, a tricky plot and a chuckle for those of us 'moderns' who enjoy stock characters being given a new lease of life. If the 'frightfully gay young things' irritate a little the reader can always reflect that those ways were an attempt to hide the effects of the war.A book for Agatha Christie lovers and for those who like crime written the old fashioned way.
another bad one. spoiler alert: This one asks us to believe that a man can commit really gruesome murders (like beheadings) without knowing it. Then it asks us to believe that he realizes that he is a serial murderer while he's commiting a murder and manages to shoot himself "to save the victim" AND that everybody is GRATEFUL to him and remembers him kindly after that! Sheesh!!!!
Just okIt wasn't hard to figure out the murderer. The mystery was why his or her close friends didn't notice how creepy that person was. I guess they were just too busy being charming and adorable.
I thought it was mediocre but serviceable until we got to the end and then I hated it so much that if it were a real book instead of a kindle book I would have thrown it across the room in disgust.
An enjoyable quick read, written in a humorous style that I appreciated. It is the 'standard' impossible murder in a country house of golden-age mysteries: no footprints in the snow, limited list of suspects with unbreakable alibis. On the negative side, the ending is not satisfying and the book is very politically incorrect.
I read that book years ago and enjoyed it, but it didn't spur me on to read additional Brands.
Now i have read two more, this one Heads You Lose, and Fog of Doubt and I doubt I will read anymore.
In both of them, Cockrill is practically a minor character, acting as detective, but the stories are told from the point of view of the various suspects - all of whom are such wonderful people and could not possibly have done it - until at some point, we are told how everyone could have done it.
For my full review click on the link below:https://crossexaminingcrime.wordpress...
This is a reissue of a murder mystery written in the 1940's.
I received an ARC of this title for evaluation.I realize that when I read first-printing classic mysteries, there are going to be things that I'll have to make allowances for, because they were printed a long time ago.
Things have changed since my parents' infancy, and that's a good thing.But when a publisher reissues an out-of-print work and leaves in every single offensive non-plot-related remark (ex: "horrid little Jew"), I have to wonder if their editors even read it.
A solid classic English country-house mystery.
It is slightly marred by the casual bigotry of the time: One character is Jewish, and it gets mentioned, often, in not so nice terms--but, then again, said character has married into the main family, and there are several mentions of how much his wife loves him, so in fairness, it's not a completely evil caricature.I was curious about this, because I recently saw an old, WWII-era movie featuring her Inspector Cockrill character.
The movie was pretty good (with the always delightful Alastair Sim playing the lead), so I went looking for the books he first appeared in.
Although it's winter and wartime, Stephen Pendock is entertaining a congenial house-party of old friends.
There is some talk of the murder that had occurred last year, but that was surely the crime of a wandering maniac of some sort.
Then one of the neighbors dies in much the same way, and next to the body is left an item from the locked house.
Despite suspicions, everyone in the house is sure that the criminal came from somewhere else.
Inspector Cockrill likes all the house guests, but it's clear to him that one of these nice people is a devious murderer.
I was disappointed by this mystery, as I expected something clever, and instead I felt the resolution was more of a deus ex machine. I hate those. Give me something clever to sort out OR give me an omniscient detective who figures it out, but don't blame it on something ridiculous. Fortunately I read this most quickly and got it cheaply on Amazon, but it disappointed me greatly too. ARRRGGG. I wanted to cry out.
I enjoyed the characters and the writing, but was really dissatisfied with the ending. It presented a picture of mental illness that I found completely unconvincing. Well, I'll have to read some of her other books and see if I like them better.
Kind of gruesome.
Not too bad. There's better out there, but there's also a whole lot worse.
Having read the obligatory Green for Danger and seen the film twice (on all three occasions failing to detect he villain, proving that a whodunnit is not about whodunnit) I chanced upon a stack of green Penguin editions of Christianna Brand's Inspector Cockrill stories in the superb Murder and Mayhem bookshop in Hay on Wye during the festival.
The continual police presence in the house fails to prevent further mayhem and a number of characters become chief suspect.
(Were there ever actually people like the ones in this book?) Brand, though, keeps the book out of the Slough of Cliche, and it becomes a lively little piece of entertainment.Set during WWII, it makes references to aspects of British life during the war: knitting for the troops, air raids, refugees, prejudice against a dachsund because ...
Brand includes several intriguing solutions--so intriguing that the actual solution was a bit of a disappointment (which they often are).Inspector Cockrill, though: interesting, odd, entertaining.
As a fan of Agatha Christie's mysteries, I wanted to explore some other writers from the Golden Age of mystery.
I was disappointed at a couple of early Ngaio Marsh novels, but I really enjoyed this one by Christianna Brand.The writing is excellent, and Brand is really good at depicting vivid characters.
The emphasis is not so much on Inspector Cockrill and his investigation, but on the psychology of the people involved and on how they perceive the situation.The last part of the novel is like a roller coaster, where several characters in quick succession seem to be the murderer.
The true solution is a bit convoluted and unlikely, but that's something that often happens in these "cosy" mysteries.Very enjoyable.
Dated, offensive anti-semitism and an inspector with no personality. Ridiculous plot. I originally thought the racism might be part of the characterization, but no! To say it was "of the time" , puhlease. Agatha Christie was of the time and you don't see any of that, as I can remember, in her novels. Of course, she was an exceedingly smart woman and I appreciate her more now when I see how well constructed her books were, compared to this claptrap. I can't believe Otto Penzler gave it a decent review.
3 1/2 stars. I liked the characters and the writing, though you do have to be aware of prevalent prejudice against those of the Jewish faith that pervaded society at that time (it is a somewhat sympathetic portrayal). The culprit surprised me.There were periods of time when it seemed that not anything was really being done in the way of investigating. People were just talking to each other and there was nothing that advanced them along, not even in the way of red herrings. However, I still thought it was a good mystery.
I call this historical only because it was written in the early 1940's. I read it because the author also wrote some children's books about Nurse Mathilda, which were the basis of the movie Nanny McPhee. I was impressed with both the writing style and the plot and will probably read more of Christianna Brand's books.
First book in the Inspector Cockrill series (first published in 1941). Good 1940s mystery - although the anti-semitism sentiments of the 1940s period makes it an uncomfortable read at points. One of the husbands/lead characters is Jewish. While this fact is not central to the mystery, there are anti-semitic comments sprinkled throughout the book.
This 1930's British mystery presents a close group of friends and the terrible certainty that one of them must be a killer. A carefully developed plot and a competent policeman hold interest while the characters reveal stereotypical prejudices of the day
