https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1779929.The_Middle_Place
Far too many reviewers seemed to miss the fact that Kelly Corrigan, the mother of two young girls, was diagnosed with stage 3 breast cancer.
And as tempting as it is, I’m not going to comment on this women’s assertion that she is “not a prude.” However, consider this censorship process.First, you must hunt carefully for the f-bombs, and in this nearly 300-page book, there are actually only 9 instances, not the dozens some reviewers reported.
One reviewer, apparently missing the fact that this was nonfiction, complained about yet another book about cancer.
To me, this anecdote highlighted Corrigan's focus on the self - and while she consistently wanted her friends to walk in her painful shoes, she rarely seemed able to walk in theirs, or ever acknowledge that others might be going through difficult times of their own.
But, Corrigan is also a fine example of how profoundly (for better or worse) parents are able to warp their children's views and expectations of what the world owes them.
I think it is his go-to suggestion for that thirty-something Mommy he believes is looking for a little more…Unfortunately, although I fit the type - not it.I liked the first third of the book fine and then her father also got sick – and that is where she lost me.
What has she learned except she is still happily in the middle place?There was no awakening in this book – just the facts, sometimes presented with humor, but no lessons learned about why, how or what if?
We get mad, throw fits, become irritable, make accusations, blame others…and after awhile, maybe five minutes to never, our adult self steps in.
I really liked Kelly at the beginning of the book, and I really WANTED to like her by the end, but just couldn't relate.A few things bothered me.
I admit, though, that several times I just want to say "buck up, girl, you are not 10 anymore." Kelly has an incredible relationship with her dad--what a guy!--but I don't think she appreciates her mom as much as she should.
Maybe it's because I was married young and experienced the "middle place" (still needing mom and dad to take care of me somewhat) during my 20's.
So, yeah, I am self-aware enough to know that part of the reason why I loved this book is because I cannot resist the storyline and my little intersection with some of it- that I am a girl who is her father's daughter, that when he was diagnosed with some rare, fast moving lymphoma caused by Agent Orange exposure, I tried to boss that damn cancer out of him and walked the fine line of begging and demanding that his doctors understand the urgency of this particular situation since it was ours and all, that my brother called me Student Body President of the cancer and meant it not admiringly because I had a pad of ceaseless questions for the doctors and couldn't summon up the lies to tell my mom that my dad wouldn't lose his hair and all that other placating stuff.
I am read this book as part of an experiment...the publisher gave out advanced copies to people who were willing to participate in an online book group. The book sounded great so I agreed.Fantastic book. Beautiful and witty. Corrigan articulated everything I never knew I felt about my parents and being a daughter. Her family is charming and she told just the right details to make me smile.
It's kind of ironic, but we must have been going through breast cancer about the same time during the years of 2004-05.
It made me remember how I loved my husband and my girls, my family and my friends for helping me through that difficult time.
It made me think of my Dad and how much I love him and appreciate his sense of humor.
After I finished reading the book, with tears streaming down my face, I instinctively picked up the phone and called my Dad. He wasn't home which was probably a good thing because I could hardly even talk to leave him a message and tell him how much I love and miss him.
When I had seen the YouTube video with Kelly Corrigan reading about the value of friendship, I was very touched, and I thought that this book would be absolutely fantastic.
If everyone who has cancer gets to publish their story, look out.
Not to belittle this woman's battle with cancer, but not everyone's story needs to be shared.
As a matter of fact, I thought her story was very mundane.
Yes, she was going through cancer treatment and then her dad was diagnosed with cancer, so maybe that was a little unique, but I just couldn't develop any special empathy for her or her father.
While this book is ok..you'll end up disliking the author. You'll find yourself wanting to jump into the book and give her one of those Scarlett O'Hara slaps.
At once the story of a strong bond between a daughter and her beloved father, it's a light in the darkness considering how many memoirs these days are about family dysfunction and mental illness.
It's also a book of resilience and hope; the author is a cancer survivor and also a strong woman who's overcome a lot of obstacles in her life, and it's easy to fall in love with her wonderful story as she uses both wit and emotion to convey it.This book is a fun and original read, an unconventional and beautiful story of love and life and all the things which make it so great.
My one sitting happened to be on a long plane ride, however, the time I spent getting to know Kelly Corrigan and her father, "Greenie," along with the rest of Kelly's family, made the plane not only bearable, but also enjoyable.
In the Prologue Kelly tells her readers that the one thing we need to know about her is that she's "George Corrigan's daughter." Ultimately, the one thing I believe this survival story is about is how love of family will see you through anything.
I started out really liking this book a lot--Kelly was likable, easy to relate to, honest (even about the uncomfortable things you don't want to admit to thinking or feeling), and a witty, fun writer.
I felt a little bothered that she would leave them almost entirely out of the story, especially when "the middle place" for which the book is named is the spot in your life when you still feel like a child and turn to your parents for help and support, but have children of your own who need you.
I really related to Kelly on many fronts.
I didn't however like her continuous use of the Lord's name in vain NOR the f-bomb.
Kelly is an amazing author and I really liked the style of how she goes back and forth from the past and present.
The story ends just a couple of years ago so when she mentions President Bush or the Brad/Angie/Jen triangle it feels like I'm right there with her.
I also relate well to her stage of life and finding that middle ground...learning to be an adult and still yearning to be the child and protected from the world.
I liked this book so much.
Definitely a cry-book - be warned - but I think what I got from this the most, beyond all of the cancer stuff, had to do with parenting.
In the prologue she writes (about her father) "He defined me first, as parents do.
In my case, he sees me as I would like to be seen.
In fact, I'm not even sure what's true about me, since I have always chosen to believe his version."Wow. This really resonates with me and I am DEFINITELY going to stop making jokes about Lily ending up in juvie.
Kelly Corrigan is a spoiled brat.
She thinks the world revolves around her, and wants us all to agree about this and nod in approval of everything she does.
This book is fairly well-written and kept me going (hence the second star), but my respect for the author declined with each page until by the end, I really couldn't tolerate her thought process and actions and found myself slamming the book against the sofa, going, "ARRRGHH!" I'd rather read a book of stories about Greenie (Corrigan has a much better knack for anecdotes than for trying to get us to sympathize with her), and none of her whining complaining whatever.

If she had stopped the book right there, just as a wonderful reminiscence of her life growing up with her family, I would not be writing what I am about to write.But just past the second half of the book, the writer's tone and the content becomes whiny, self indulgent, leaving the author sounding like a spoiled child who needs to grow up.
It is the self-congratulatory way she perceives herself in this instance that is irritating.The other episodes in which she is complaining about someone's insensitivity reads like a personal diary entry - one we all may make now and then when feeling particularly sorry for ourselves, but not a diary entry we ever expect anyone else to read.
I really enjoyed this book for the first few chapters.
I liked the author's voice and writing style, and I loved the stories about her dad.
However, I did not finish this book.
(I think I was about 1/6th through and I'd heard it at least 5 times.) Secondly, her philosophies were just too different from mine.
We were both brought up in faith filled homes, but she turned away from the faith of her parents and I embraced mine.
Not worth my time.
I would have liked to hear how she beat cancer, but I just couldn't keep listening.
This book didn't grab me.
It seemed to be all over the place.
And the language was harsh.
Which is kind of funny because I just recently readThe Pursuit of Happyness and it was loaded with bad language, but for some reason it fit there.
In this book it just didn't work for me.
It was angry language.I tried to like Kelly, but at the end I just didn't really care one way or the other.
But I did LOVE her dad.
What a great guy.
I am grateful for men who 'get' how to be a great dad.
I really LOVED him.
I gave this a shot, a random book that sounded promising, about a woman dealing with her own cancer and her father’s.
The narrator is a woman that is a bit self-centered, a party girl.
I found her situation to be relatable, but her personality just didn’t grow on me.
Her descriptions of her father were the most interesting parts of the book.
Another reviewer mentioned that they saw no growth in the narrator.
I saw that too, and I think that is what led me to a not rate this as highly as I thought I would given the topic.
My second book by Kelly Corrigan and I have the biggest crush. Her honesty takes my breath (because, I can't EVEN imagine speaking so candidly about anything ever). Kelly writes about her family, her childhood, her cancer, her children and it is 100 percent interesting and charming even though I wouldn't know her if I saw her on the street. I will certainly read all her books and any she writes in the future.
There are moments in the book where she seems aware of how egocentric she is—and that a very large part of it is due to the way her parents (father) made/make her feel she was/is the center of the universe.
Even her enormous need for her father to be healthy and cancer-free is about her need for him to still be there for her—not about what he’s feeling or experiencing.I think there are some interesting discussions that will come from this book—about how Kelly got to be so self-absorbed.
Is it reasonable to become so self-absorbed when faced with such a tragedy as cancer?
Many times as I was reading this book, I would be nodding my head or trying to swallow past the lump in my throat.
This is the kind of book you will find yourself reading in the carpool line and as you are browning the meat, because you simply cannot put it down.Upon completion, I felt happy, weepy and slightly bereft, much like the way you feel as you say goodbye to someone you love after a long visit.
I cannot wait to read more from this author.
I loved this book. It was so engaging. I put off reading it for a long time, even though I love memoirs. I didn't think I wanted to read a book about "cancer". This book is so much more. The family relationships were relatable. I can't wait to read more books by Kelly Corrigan.
I love her voice. I love the way she compares things. And I love the way she loves her family. Many have criticized this book for being self-absorbed... but it's a memoir. A memoir about cancer and family. I'd say: self-absorption warranted.
Wow, did I ever love this. Kelly Corrigan writes in my most favorite of ways, and I couldn't put it down. It was sad, but not, and happy, but realistic—all at the same time. I'll be thinking about it for a long time.
I really loved this book.
Its a memoir from Kelly Corrigan and its all about that middle place where your parents are still alive and you're still a daughter, but you're also a wife and mother.
She gets (and beats) breast cancer, is raising her 2 young daughters, is a wife to a good man, and stands by her dad as he has multiple bouts with cancer.
Its a quick read and very interesting.
Her writing style is very easy to read and I enjoyed it a lot!
Unfortunately, her father has passed, but not until many years after this book.

The middle place is where you are both a parent and a child; a daughter and a mother. This is not a book as much as it is a story about a family, relationships, marriage and how they create a backdrop for life. It could be my family, your neighbor's or your own. There's so much I identify with and so much that I have never experienced. The way the story was told resonated with and touched me.
I just adore Kelly Corrigan. Love her take on marriage, kids, and adult relationships with aging parents.
