https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/15839984-cruel-beauty
Nyx. The best books are held aloft by a great protagonist and Cruel Beauty is no exception.
Her father made a deal with the Gentle Lord - the evil ruler of their kingdom - before Nyx and her twin sister were born.
Nyx, as the child her father loved less, has long-known her destiny to be the wife of the Gentle Lord.
I loved the hell out of this story.
The intrigue.
Nyx.This book kind of had it all for me.
Plot, mystery, intrigue and a whole lot of making out.
It’s almost like Hodge was trying to distract me from the crazy plotholes and loose story structure.
I haven’t been this entertained by a book in ages.
I immediately went out and bought a copy (I got mine from the library).So if you’re into mythology and kissing and just looking for something eminently, page-turningly good, then this is your book.This is only a mini review as I wrote a guide to Beauty and the Beast retellings here.
If one of us had to die, it ought to be the one with poison in her heart.  Actual rating: 3.5Maybe it's just me, but I've rarely encountered a Beauty and the Beast retelling that I haven't loved. Ok, except Beastly. That abomination was just horrible all the way around. And let's not even mention the movie. Some people just have the kind of face that just begs for an encounter with my fist, and pretty boy Pettyfer is one of them. But I digress.This was a very enjoyable read, though not without
Nyx truly loves her twin sister, the innocent, sweet Astraia, but it is so hard not to feel resentment at one who has been the recipient of all their father's love, while knowing that her happiness will come at the cost of your own, but she is determined to fulfil her mission:
Astraia has been adored by everyone since she was born, while her twin sister, Nyx, has been groomed to die.
She hates Ignifex, but Nyx is not a person of absolute cruelty.
Once Nyx got into the castle, I expected her to plot, to finalize her plan to kill Ignifex.
the inconsistency makes it confusing and difficult to root for her to succeed, because it's hard to know what "success" would even look like, with all the cross-purposes and competing goals and obstacles.3) bizarre love trianglethis book is best categorized as a fantasy romance, but i was completely unmoved by the romance itself.
i think there's a great story underneath all this clutter and i am really rooting for it to manifest in the second installment.
It starts out strong but turns into trash.
HORRID instalove, obnoxious and confusing love triangle (??????), and I was completely baffled by the world/magic system.
I'm not sure if it's because I listened to it on audio, but i am SO confused by everything.
I was so confused on who all the different magical entities were that controlled the world and none of it made sense to me whatsoever.
I'm still roiling a bit on what just happened there at the end because it also starts to pull in time travle????
Well, I loved the beginning...promising of Dark, Cruel Beauty and the Beast retelling..mind the spitful, cruel, protagonist that in need for a serious 'Anger Management'..-not the beast, nope..the girl actually made me really angry most of the time-Oh and don't expect that since she's the cruel angry one here she'd marry a gentle-beast..nooo, he's like Lucifer himself.Well, this 'angry' bride, full of hatred..
I have to give the narrator, Elizabeth Knowelden, some credit here.
She really, really tried to salvage this book by giving the main character tons of personality, but not even she could change the source material.
I dunno.Who are the real bad guys?
I dunno.Wait, what's the SECRET.
It's a SECRET that you'll never find out and/or stop caring about.Cruel Beauty was like a mixing pot of great ideas that didn't get mixed very well.
Also, I have no idea what the hell I'm talking about, kinda like this book.
But the narrator's voice was nice.
Because  Cruel Beauty  is a tale of romance, and this review wouldn't sufficiently cover everything I loved about it if it didn't touch on Nyx and Ignifex, I'm going to begin here:   “I want my world free.” I stepped toward him.
“And I want you to say that you love me again.”   Nyx has a black heart full of hatred and poison, and Ignifex has a heart full of malice and amusement.
Nyx and Ignifex's romance was built up really slowly, and for a time, I even wondered if it was going to happen at all.
Cruel Beauty is a very ambitious novel, and it's one that will likely throw some readers off in how odd it is; it's a Beauty and the Beast retelling, with some Greek mythology thrown in, a whole lot of fantasy, a maybe even a hint of dystopian aspects, and trust me when I say it's all handled really, really well.
I'm aware of this; but in Cruel Beauty, Rosamund Hodge creates a character in Nyx that is, while not always likable, wholly relatable, and that is a great feat in my eyes.
I'm not sure of what to think of this book... I really loved it... but at the same time I didnt? Let me try to arrange my thoughts... I was very excited about this book, so I was a little dissappointed because I wasn't really digging it and I was already at page 100... but after that it really became really really good! I started to like the characters and I kinda fell in love with the Gentle Lord, Ignifex <3. I think that I wasn't liking it at the begining because Nyx is always changing her
I think that I wasn't liking it at the begining because Nyx is always changing her mind and I wanted to slap her sometimes, but also because the world in this book is really confusing!
At first I didn't understand a thing about the "Hermetic" laws and the elemental hearts, then it became clearer, but we also had demons, gods, "kindly ones", shadows, mithology, fantasy, and so much more that I don't think I fully understood the world at the end of the book, but that doesn't mean I didn't like it, on the contrary, I found it very interesting!
3.9ish starsThis was so so so good and I loved it way more than I was expecting to. I did have some small issues which is why I didn't give it full five stars. Rtc after my exams, Buddy read with Inej dominating Kaz who i ditched lmao
2 StarsMini-review since it's been like a month since I read this whoops.Pros- engrossing writing style- Audiobook narrator with the voice of a goddess- A fun combination of Greek mythology and Beauty and the Beast retelling- Main character who's allowed flaws and to be complex Cons: - In the quest to make the MC complex they made her indecisive and fickle.
They talk about love and connections on the first "date"- The ending makes no sense- Pointless love triangle was pointless- There's literally like a magical god bird who explains everything, but then MC conveniently forgets so that the story can drag on for a few more chapters In Conclusion:The definition of wasted potential.
The first like three chapters are excellent and then it steadily declines
Honest to god, I don't know why I'm kidding myself about this book.
This one time, I was on the train, and it was packed - like, shoulder-to-shoulder.
It was like God's eleventh plague had descended on that train car.
Please, let the air dissipate, or at least let everyone blame it on the dude standing next to me who is very pointedly staring out the window and trying not to touch me with his elbow.That's not as embarrassing as this book.
I realize that this book doesn't come out for quite a while, but as soon as it downloaded on my Kindle, I started reading it right away, and once I'd finished it, there was no holding back the feels.This book is amazering.It's half:And another half:And considering Beauty and the Beast is one of my favorite Disney movies/fairy tales and the Cupid and Psyche myth is probably my favorite in the entire Greek mythology canon...This book has some of the coolest worldbuilding I've seen in a YA novel.
The beginning is indeed a little too extended but don’t give up yet and give the book a chance!The story: I was incredibly curious about this one when I discovered it on Goodreads not so long ago (thank you GR!) because some reviewers said it was a remarkable retelling of Beauty and the Beast and some others actually said that they didn’t see much of the fairy tale in it.
Cruel Beauty definitely has a special and an interesting world-building worth reading about and paying attention to.The writing: As I said, the story is slow-paced but not the boring and oh-my-gosh-seriously-is-it-going-to-end-someday kind.
3.5 starsThis book, I would have preferred to read written for adults. It is mostly a romance, with a lot of talk of virginity, ravishing, tearing off dresses, etc. But because it's YA, despite being quite sensuous, it doesn't go further than kissing. Too bad really, I don't come across many good adult romances, and setup of "Cruel Beauty" is perfect for creating all kinds of convenient excuses to facilitate sexy times. I enjoyed mythology/fairy tale mix as well, although I got lost a little in it all by the end.
3.5 stars. Everyone was telling me I would hate this book, and I did not! While it did have its faults, I enjoyed what it was trying to do and the general theme, even if the execution failed at times. It is a Beauty and the Beast/Hades & Persephone hybrid with some folklore mixed in. I cannot hate it. A review to come when I've fully collected my thoughts!
3.5"Why wasn’t my hatred simple anymore?"I'm going to start this review doing a thing I usually find useless and infuriating, but which I am nonetheless sure every reader does, at least from time to time: a comparison. And a random enough comparison at that.Not that many days ago I finished another ya novel that all of you probably know, and that is  Angelfall  by Susan Ee. You see, I thought I needed to mention it because of this curious question that popped up in my mind as soon as I turned th
by Susan Ee. You see, I thought I needed to mention it because of this curious question that popped up in my mind as soon as I turned the last page of Cruel Beauty: if I feel that I enjoyed this book as much as I enjoyed Angelfall, why then did I rate that one four stars without a second thought, while I just can't bring myself to do the same with this?This review is the answer to that question.•Nyx Triskelion and I are not right for each other, this much is apparent.
In fact, more than a month passes before Nyx develops actual feelings, but, since their interactions are very limited both in duration and in variety, it feels like insta-love all the same.
La Bella y La Bestia se mezcla con Cumbres Borrascosas y Barba Azul en una tragedia Griega. Sinopsis: Nuestra heroina (?) es hija de un poderoso hombre de la región y son constantemente victimas de los ataques de demonios. Nyx tiene una hermana gemela llamada Astraia y junto a su padre, ellas también viven con su tía por parte de madre.Todo va bien, ¿no? Bueno, no. Resulta que, desde que Nyx nació, fue prometida al Gentle Lord, el príncipe de todos los demonios, el infame señor de los tratos y
Así que sí, el odio del Nyx era justificado.Pero vaya si hubieron partes donde leía lo que ella pensaba y me quedaba en shock, aunque entendía de donde venía todo eso, aún así.No creo que pueda ser muy objetiva en cuanto a la relación con su familia ya que, desde sus ojos, realmente todos me caen mal.
When I was first reading this book I was not really digging it, I thought I had a handle on where the story was going, and therefore I thought it was too predictable.
I still guessed the ending halfway in, but I enjoyed the ride nonetheless.
The amount of predictability that may or may not be present in this book is not the important part, no, the important part is the story.
The last 30 pages or so is what made me write this whole review because I LOVED the ending.
This book delivered something I did not expect, so for that I tip my hat to it.
I found a rose garden under a glass dome; the roses formed a labyrinth in which I always got lost . . .  Since birth, Nyx has been betrothed to the evil ruler of her kingdom-all because of a foolish bargain struck by her father. And since birth, she has been in training to kill him.With no choice but to fulfill her duty, Nyx resents her family for never trying to save her and hates herself for wanting to escape her fate. Still, on her seventeenth birthday, Nyx abandons everything she's ever kno
With time running out, Nyx must decide what is more important: the future of her kingdom, or the man she was never supposed to love.I have to admit, I picked up this book because of the cover *wears cone of shame* The reviews were looking kind of iffy and I wasn't sure I would like this book.
I felt like the author was going for a mysterious and enigmatic vibe (which mostly worked) and some clarity was lost with that.All in all, this was a solid, enjoyable read :)
It took a few chapters for me to get interested, pretty much when Nyx got to her wonderful husband's home, the evil Ignifex.
I love the hell out of Nyx snarky attitude, she is great and doesn't take any lip from Ignifex, which he finds divine and doesn't seem to want to kill her.
I don't know, I just said that, she just rubbed me the wrong way throughout the book.
that she wants to save Ignifex because she knows he's really good inside.
Nyx gives her all to save Ignifex and in the end it all pays off.
I don’t really know the story of the Greek gods seeing as there are a lot of them so this book informed me of some of the stories such as Pandora and her box.
Beauty and the beast is my fave so I don’t think I can ever not like a retelling of one lol.
So there was this love triangle between evil guy and his shadow (for some weird reason).
One minute she’s like: oh shade (the shadow) is nice and i love him .
The next minute she’s like,  evil guy is bad and my enemy but he’s the only one that knows me .
I haven't the slightest clue as to how to review this properly so just know I loved this.
It was beautiful.
Straight up throwing things and hitting Ignifex every 3 seconds and later on telling him she still might kill him after admitting she 'might' love him too.
If that isn't me I don't know what is.
Ignifex was also just everything.
My beautiful demon prince.
I also had no idea where this was going or how it would end so being pleasantly surprised by it is an A+ Do yourself a favor and read this If you haven't already !
I think some people may find the main characters too dark and self-centered to enjoy their story, and at times it was edging on a little too much for me.
The romance develops slowly and is lovely to watch, and it would have been perfect if not for the forced love triangle.(view spoiler)[ I have a gripe with the character of Shade, the only other being that Nyx encounters in Ignifex's house.
I recognized Shade's importance but I didn't like the way he was portrayed or how his relationship with Nyx progressed.
Now when this kid gets there, she’s all defiant but it takes less than four dinners for her to realize she’s actually in love with the beastWhatTheFrickNOT ONLY THATBut she be kissing every guy she lays eyes on.Okay, I seriously don’t get why she kisses Shade one minute and then goes on to make out with the Gentle Lord the next???????
None of them ever loved you, because none of them ever knew you”^^Oh but im sure you know her soooooooooo well after like 6 days So, she’s supposed to be this bada*s princess, nobelwoman kinda thing but the only thing im getting from her is a big NOPE.
I couldn’t turn the pages fast enough because of the promising plot-Nyx marrying with the intention of assassinating Ignifex, a demon/monster to save the land of Arcadia.
Her first few attempts at killing him were just so hilarious and I was really convinced I’m going to love the book.
But then a few chapters later, things just got weirder and weirder including the crazy love triangle, Nyx becoming so fickle in her emotions that she’s starting to become annoying and the plot becoming a huge blur and soon I found myself disconnected and disoriented.
It suffices to say that I think I’m done with Beauty and the Beast retellings for now.
Precious This book is just so precious and so dear to my heart. I think the plot is interesting! with the references of myth like.. Tatarus even Pandora adapt in this retelling of Beauty and the Beast. Strong characters with hatred in their hearts.. alas how I love anti-hero so much. I enjoy and love Nyx and Ignifex my heart giddy giddy you guys might not understand till reading it. LOL!The romance is so captivating and beautiful Seriouly the best aspect of this book.  It's wickedly romantic, da
Precious This book is just so precious and so dear to my heart.
Strong characters with hatred in their hearts..
I enjoy and love Nyx and Ignifex my heart giddy giddy you guys might not understand till reading it.
LOL!The romance is so captivating and beautiful Seriouly the best aspect of this book.
It's wickedly romantic, dark and touchingly beautiful at the same times
oh god how I want to tell more, but it will be spolier but damn it is just so fun, intense, touching, and beautiful *damn* I wish I have hard cover!
*damn damn damnnn*
It seems to me that if you break a thing, you can't complain that it's in pieces. I don't remember the last time I've felt so torn over a book.I don't know how else to put this: Rosamund Hodge's books are so, so messy. They have enough issues that I usually can't imagine giving them five stars. But there's something about her mythology, her gorgeous prose, her compelling characters, and even her romances that works. Her books are the very definition of perfectly imperfect. Sure, some may hate s
I don't remember the last time I've felt so torn over a book.I don't know how else to put this: Rosamund Hodge's books are so, so messy.
I just don't know how much I like the execution.While there's definitely no rape in this story, there are points where non-consensual kissing occurs between the main couple.
I have to say that the love triangle was my least favorite thing about the book.
I love them too; I've found all of her books' final scenes absolutely perfect.
Despite all the typical debut novel issues, this was a really compelling story and I'm so glad I picked it up.
