https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/55095.Live_from_New_York
(Just because I was granted permission to watch TV-14 shows did NOT mean I was allowed to stay up until 1 a.m.) It was a momentous occasion.I don’t have the same devotion to SNL now as I did then (Bill Hader and Andy Samberg are gone, duh) but I’m super grateful for it.
Without SNL, I wouldn’t have discovered some of my favorite podcasts, movies, and TV shows, all through following the immense web that is the cast members’ careers.Plus, it’s still the most fascinating thing ever.
Who wouldn’t want to read about that?Thus, unsurprisingly, THIS BOOK IS SO, SO FASCINATING.I keep describing it as gossiping with the greats of comedy.
New cast is hired, and again, expecting to get famous, they pretty much suck.
We realize that Lorne kind of likes it this way, and is probably doing it on purpose.Most of the famous people leave, and Lorne assembles another new cast.
There's quite a bit of he-said-she-said-he-said-he-said (because there are way more men than women), and some backbiting and hurt feelings even after 30some years, but there are also some really touching moments about lost cast members like John Belushi, Gilda Radner, and Chris Farley from the people who probably knew them the best.
Live From New York: An Uncensored History of Saturday Night Live is straight out the best memoir I've ever read.This is an oral history, which means that except for some chapter setting exposition, Miller & Shales get out of the way and let the history of Saturday Night Live unfold through the memories of the cast members, writers, producers, musicians, hosts, guests and network executives who were there.
Kind of the opposite was true, unfortunately--for some people, it was impossible to do the show without the drugs.John Landis, Film Director: I went up to the SNL offices.
Wow, this took me FOREVER to read.
It was in my bathroom, so I only read it sporadically, but STILL.
I go to the bathroom EVERY DAY.I think it could have been shorter if it had been edited better.
This was only the second "oral history"-stylee book I've read (the other was Gonzo) and it wasn't put together nearly as well.
Tell me one thousand times!) and sometimes poorly edited.
But there are still just as many pages devoted to them.All in all, it was okay, but I had heard SUCH great things about this book, and it pretty much shot its load in the first 150 pages.
3.5 stars. An interesting look behind the curtains of one of my favorite shows. It's a bit dated (2002), but just modern enough to include Will Ferrell at least. The format features scores of performers, writers, producers and Lorne Michaels himself all speaking directly on how they've put the show together, and all that has gone right and wrong over the years. It is both revealing and tiring, due to repetition and sheer length. I'd recommend it to people who enjoy the show, but that's about it. The book could still use a better editing job either way.
Why did the authors think he needed his own section?This book was interesting, but the worshipful quality of it was annoying as hell.
It's not changing the lives of anyone except its stars.
But in this book, it's portrayed as one of the most significant things to happen in the U.S. Whoever criticizes the show is wrong, and wrong to do it, and any star who criticizes it or calls is racist or sexist is just wrong.
Plus, how did the authors choose which guest hosts to interview?
Why so much Gwyneth Paltrow?Don't get me wrong--this was an entertaining book.
I learned more about the unpleasant sides of certain comedy heros than I wanted to know, and the stories of power struggles, drug addiction, sexism, and network politics make is appear miraculous that the show ever got on the air at all, let alone continues to have such an impact over so many decades.There are those who argue that SNL has lost its edge, and no longer takes the risks that it did when it was first born.
Ten thoughts on the book:1) Writing about music may be like dancing about architecture but talking about comedy is, for me, really, really interesting.
I think I just love spending time with funny people, and if I can do that for free without having to leave the house or spend time with actual humans, all the better.
2) Also, writing about music is not like dancing about architecture.
(Not that Amy et al can't do honking aggression.)9) The show stayed good in the 2010s due to having talented but also nice, professional and hard working cast members.
Taking 90 minutes of television out of the hands of a broadcast media elite in the mid-70s and handing it to what was essentially a bunch of kids to do whatever they want in real time on live television was a huge deal.
The prizing of spontaneity made this then, and continue to make it now, an accessible and precious kind of comedy.Reading this launched me into a weeks-long binge of old-school SNL on Netflix.
It breaks my heart that huge chunks of old episodes are withheld (some cut down to 20-30 minutes long), but the first five seasons are all there in their entirety.
The final chapter, about Lorne Michaels, has incorporated new quotations with the older ones, but the newer material was rushed (it's the only time in the book where you'll see formatting typos or, in one case, an entire long quotation repeated three pages after it originally runs) and wasn't exactly revelatory.
With the exception of Paul Simon — who is one of Lorne Michaels' best friends — there's almost no mention whatsoever of any of the musical acts, nor did the authors of the book deign to interview any of them.
Do you have what it takes?The first time I learned about this book was in looking to find out more about the long and storied history of Saturday Night Live after the 40th Anniversary episode.
The book is quick to point out that people were saying "Saturday Night Dead" almost immediately after the departure of Chevy Chase at the end of season one.
This book interviews forty years' worth of completely batshit insane yet unspeakably talented people who put on a show on Saturday Nights when they were young.
(Not to mention the short tenures of Jay Mohr, Jim Breuer and Adam McKay) And then there is the fact I should probably have mentioned in the beginning, that it only goes up to 2001, so you aren't going to get anything from the 2000's stretch, which is the one I'm most interested in.
Honestly I would love it if it was an even more epic, multi volume work like Carlyle's history of the French Revolution or some shit.
People's impressions of him coupled with his own entries make him all the more interesting.
This is my name and now I'm telling you jokes.' " --Tina Fey"A 'no-wig' job like that one struck me as a good thing to aim for." --Seth Meyers, describing "Weekend Update""Sarah Palin was just pennies from heaven.
I'd rather look like, I don't know, someone's anus or something." --Scarlett Johansson, on hosting SNL"When I'm doing a movie and it has a particular type of scene, I always imagine it being made fun of on Saturday Night Live." --Robert De Niro"God, you make so much money doing it--five or six hundred bucks!
It’s a fairly interesting bit of reading, going from the show’s origins in ‘75 to the 2002 season, and getting views from everyone except Eddie Murphy, who will not talk about the show ever for some reason.
And plenty of tributes to, and aspersions of, Lorne, the literal father figure to so many of them.The gossip and dirt does get a bit repetitive at times, and a few more insights as to the actual production of the show might have been a welcome relief.
Still, as puff piece, it’s quite readable, and amusing at times.
People painted in a negative light in previous books (Chevy Chase & Jean Doumanian, for example) got to tell their sides of the story (Chase is uncharacteristically humble and expresses regret for some of his past actions, while Doumanian is given more than enough rope to hang herself).
Plus, since this is a fairly recent book, it talks about more recent backstage drama, such as Norm MacDonald's war with the NBC brass (Don Ohlmeyer comes across as even worse than Doumanian), and the first episode after 9/11.
I'd very much like to see Shales and Miller update this book to reflect SNL's restored relevance in the wake of the Digital Shorts.
I've been a huge fan of SNL since I was a kid. This book is written in an interesting interview style. Rather than one long interview, it pulls pieces of interviews from MANY people and puts them together in nice little chapters based on subject and time period. Great read if you're a fan of SNL and love to hear all the details behind the scenes.
A must read for fans of the show, even if you've already read the previous edition (which I had). Full review to come.
This review was originally posted on Rebel Mommy Book Blog
It’s hard to rate an oral history because so much depends on the interview subjects’ material, but I really enjoyed this one. I only wish more could have been heard from. Few cast members and more could have been written about some of the most famous bits on the show. Over all it was excellent, though.
Otherwise the generation gap would show.For instance, I sometimes watch some of the “classic” sketches of the original cast in the late 1970s and don’t get the joke.
While they discuss it in the book, it has always fascinated me how so few cast members have turned into legitimate movie stars.
Perhaps because I just did not find her sketches that funny (again it might be the generation gap thing as an original cast member) or that I didn’t find her all that attractive, but so many male cast members and writers fawn over Gilda Radner.
And how did I end up liking it so much?Miller and Shales aren't simply interested in the funniest sketches and the most destructive people which/who have danced across the stage.
Miller and Shales interviewed everyone they could get their hands on, and had these actors/writers/produces/passerbys tell, in detail, the life of SNL while they were there.
I found myself a little annoyed with the writers that they slapped it in here, and really only skimmed the end, looking for final anecdotes from the voices I liked the most.For anyone who appreciates SNL, or comedy at all for that matter, this book is quite simply a must-read.
This is really great dish, especially if you watched this show for any extended period of time in your life.
Producer Lorne withholds the love to make all the children strive harder and always feel "you just haven't earned it yet, baby!" It's so funny reading these brief confessions from all these people, many of them geniuses.
I guess many of them saw this as an opportunity to speak their mind to Lorne or other cast members they were still angry at, without looking like a real shitbag for writing their own tell-all.
The book was fun for the bits of insider-y gossip it offered--everybody thinks Chevy Chase is a dick, George Steinbrenner was a terrible host--though many of the interviewees stuck to generalities without talking about specific people or sketches, which kept you wondering who or what they were talking about.
Not surprisingly, Downey and MacDonald had extreme contempt for the audience, more interested in doing what they thought was smart humor than getting laughs.
In the book, MacDonald says, "I have more faith in me and Jim that I did in any audience.
Ugh. For a 600-page book of interviews with some of the funniest, charming, egotistical, and most dysfunctional people around, LFNY is appallingly bereft of insight or pleasure.Shales and Miller are waaaay too close to their subjects, and as such treat their heroes/friends like they were delicate flowers.
The first involves poor Garret Morris, who apparently freebased so often in his office that the maids were afraid to clean the room, because "that's where the fires always are".
The other involves (who else?) John Belushi, who snorted all of Al Franken's hard-earned cocaine, which had cost him two weeks' salary.
This book isn't history, it's hagiography.
No es fácil seguir el show así.
Aún así, desde que lo descubrí hace algunos años, me enganchó.
El humor es totalmente gringo (con todas sus implicaciones) y, aunque la temática muchas veces es lejana (política, religión, filosofía americanas), los destellos de genialidad siempre estaban ahí.
Así vi por primera vez a Will Ferrell, Jimmy Fallon, Tina Fey y Amy Poehler.
Luego entendí que por ahí habían pasado Billy Crystal, Martin Short, Eddie Murphy, Phil Hartman y un largo etcétera.
Tom Shales cuenta magistralmente la historia, no con su voz, sino con la de los propios protagonistas.
on the Sports Guy's "Table" scale, this book was a definite C.
[in short, anything/anyone you encounter either A) brings something to the table, B) brings nothing to the table, or C) takes things OFF the table.
my scale goes to D), takes things off the table & then smashes the table to splinters, rendering it useless.
[ side note: not long after i finished this, the National Lampoon Radio Hour box set came in to the store &, because i had just read this, i was (maybe) more inclined to snatch it & bring it home.
because the Radio Hour is fucking hilarious stuff.
Five stars for the section on the 70s (drugs!
This waning excitement is probably a combination of the show itself getting into more of a routine over the years and the fact that people who worked on the show more recently are less inclined to air the really good dirty laundry.
Really, the transparency of this strategy got a bit tiring.But I cannot recommend the first 200 pages enough, and I challenge anyone to read this section and not experience an intense desire to party with Dan Ackroyd, Bill Murphy, and Carrie Fisher circa 1978.
SNL was one of my earliest TV obsessions (I began watching it with my father in the late 80s, Dana Carvey-Phil Hartman-Dennis Miller era), so my expectations were high when I stumbled across this exhaustive oral history, which was first published in 2003.
Lorne Michaels' psychological effect on the operation is not explicitly explored until a puzzling final chapter, rather than worked into the overall narrative.
The show's puzzling habit of black tokenism is completely glossed over.
As with many oral histories, it was a little all over the place, but there was certainly more than enough satisfying stuff here to make it a must-read for any SNL fanatic.
While there have been a number of other books written about Saturday Night Live over the years, and I admittedly haven't read any of them, it's hard to imagine that any gives a greater glimpse into just what makes SNL tick than this 781-page tome by James A.
The chronological narrative (if you could call it that) from idea conception to the present is told via bite-sized quotes, a format which works surprisingly well for the subject.
The sheer number of past and present cast, crew, hosts and executives he must have interviewed is astounding.
this is the gossipiest book i have ever read.
and that's saying a lot, because I read tina brown's biography of Princess Diana.The beginning is a lot about creating SNL and the not ready for primetime players, which I loved.
I have a real thing for Gilda Radner.The second half, after Lorne Michaels comes back to the show, is just so so gossipy.
I read this on my ipad, which I would HIGHLY suggest, because you're going to want to youtube sketches of Father Guido Sarducci and the church lady and Mary Katheryn Gallagher and Roseanne Roseannadanna and the Blues Brothers, and it helps to have that just a swipe away.
