https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/194870.The_Complete_Adventures_of_Peter_Rabbit
i just realized that this is A children’s classic published before 1980 and as such, i can use it to fulfill book riot's 2018 read harder challenge task #11: A children’s classic published before 1980 although i will sacrifice the extry points of the self-challenged "read something i've owned for more than a year.
this is the book my dad sent in my easter package this year, along with a metric ton of candy and these two friends:and while i'm showing off my toys, here's the awesome easter sloth erica sent in her easter basket: easter is the best holiday.
Gorgeous edition of all the Peter Rabbit stories.
Though they are pretty scary reading as a grown up - literally Peter Rabbit's mum is nonchalantly like 'don't play at Mr McGregor's garden, he cooked up your dad & ate him' then leaves her bunny children unsupervised for the day.
What does she think is going to happen???
As if the kids aren't going to go STRAIGHT TO FORBIDDEN PLACE.Then Peter spends one of the sequels seriously traumatised by his visit to said garden to the point where he basically starts hallucinating and hearing things.
Ok, i'm not fan of it ;)can't find beauty in it, and all I see is how awful people or animals are. it remind's me about polish children books like "janko muzykant" or "nasza szkapa". Like Tommy Brock taking all little rabbits and put them into oven... yeah.. fun read for kids...Or Like Benjamin had been beaten by his dad with stick - AWESOME! great children book ;)
For example in "Tale of Peter Rabbit" the mother warned the bunnies not to go into Mr. McGregor's garden because their father was captured and baked into a pie and it SHOWS A PICTURE OF MRS.
In "The Tale of Benjamin Bunny", Benjamin Bunny and his cousin Peter Rabbit go into Mr. McGregor's garden where they are trapped by a cat for five hours only to be rescued by Old Mr. Bunny (Benjamin's father and Peter's uncle) who right away takes a switch to each of the boys.
Really interesting when you think about it that way.Still a good set of novels.
So cute even after all these years reading them again
- switch as in a stick to hit with, and switch as in flicking a change of direction.- - -“The Tale of Two Bad Mice”Once upon a time there was a very beautiful doll’s-house; it was red brick with white windows, and it had real muslin curtains and a front door and a chimney.It belonged to two dolls called Lucinda and Jane; at least it belonged to Lucinda, but she never ordered meals.Jane was the Cook; but she never did any cooking, because the dinner had been bought ready-made, in a box full of shavings.“perambulator” = old-fashioned term for pram.”“They pushed the front door – it was not fast.”[fast = so as to be hard to move; securely.]Tom Thumb and his wife Hunca Munca go ape-sh*t.
Beatrix Potter's stories of personified animals are a delightful tour of the themes that shape our lives: obedience... and disobedience, adventure, greed, guilt service, service, hard work, telling the truth, love, and on and on and on. These impressions are colored with Potter's whimsical mark of narration and illustration. A family treasure. Highly recommended.
Beautiful, marvelous drawings, but some stories didn't raise to my expectations.
[Quick review from memory until I re-read and re-review at a later date:I've never really thought about Peter Rabbit much and I don't remember anything about this at all. Is that an omen?]
I own the box sets for all of Beatrix Potter's work and love it to death. Great reading for a children at bed time!
I vaguely remembered the premise of these stories from my childhood, and enjoyed rereading the four stories contained in this book.
This collection included four stories: "The Tale of Peter Rabbit," "The Tale of Benjamin Bunny," "The Tale of the Flopsy Bunnies," and "The Tale of Mr. Todd." I greatly enjoyed the stories and illustrations, but there were several surprising plot points I'd forgotten.
Yes, they are rabbits and the story was written over 100 years ago, but I wasn't quite prepared for rabbit incest.-Old Mr. Rabbit beats his son, Benjamin Bunny, and his nephew Peter Rabbit after they wander into Mr. McGregor's garden.
I'm ashamed to admit I haven't read most of these lovely little tales before, and I'm glad to have them all in one place.
Beatrix Potter's illustrations are beautiful, but I enjoyed this audiobook with only her simple words to draw the pictures.Laurel Schroeder is an excellent choice as the voice actor, she read them as I'd imagine Beatrix Potter herself would have.
She has a lovely cultured accent for the regular narration, and gives each mouse or squirrel their own piping little voice.
My favorite was The Tale of Squirrel Nutkin with his silly sing song riddles.
За всички малки и големи, настоящи и бъдещи почитатели на любимата ни Биатрикс Потър пристигат събрани в един том всички оригинални четири приказки за Зайчето Питър! Издателство „Труд” ни зарадваха с „Забавните приключения на Зайчето Питър” - сборник с твърди корици, в който са намерили място пищно илюстрираните патила на пухкавия палавник. Оригиналното заглавие на книгата е „The Complete Adventures of Peter Rabbit” и в нея ще откриете класиките „Приказка за Зайчето Питър”, „Приказка за Бебо Бенджамин”, „Приказка за Зайчета Каламбичета” и преведената за първи път на български език „Приказка за Лис-Лисан”! Прочетете ревюто на "Книжни Криле":https://knijnikrile.wordpress.com/201...
This was the first time I have read all of Beatrix Potter's stories on Peter Rabbit collected.
It was a joy for me because my daughter is old enough now to sit and listen to each, understand what is happening fully (and without only looking at the illustrations) and not be too scared to the point where we have to stop reading.
By the middle point of the collection, my son was also listening in, though he was strictly there to check where each character was located on the provided map, and to ask if we could read Tommy Tiptoes every time.
Peter Rabbit will endure for many years to come.
I feel like I should love this, it's a classic and it's all over book lists for young children. However, there are so many words that aren't used in our language any more! My kids liked it, but I would guess they understood half of what was read. We liked the first 3 stories the best- Peter Rabbit, Benjamin Bunny & The Flopsy Bunnies. The last story, The Tale of Mr. Todd, is SO long! You may think this is great for young children, but I would say 6+ would be a decent audience.
Ongekend populair bij ons kind! "Die Pieter toch!"
A wonderful book.
Charming stories of rabbits, a fox, a badger, a cat, some mice, and a farmer and his wife. I vaguely remember reading this when I was very young.
3.5 stars.
I love Beatrix Potter and her books. The pictures are charming, the stories teach valuable lessons, and the language is lovely.
I love the Bearix Potter stories.
My oh my, the world of Peter Rabbit is a lot bigger than I ever realized.
This book was given then, though I never read the whole thing until now.I knew the first tow stories in the collection well—the tales of Peter Rabbit and Benjamin Bunny.
All stories feature Peter Rabbit.
"Benjamin Bunny" is kind of a minor misadventure about Peter getting his clothes from the MacGregor's garden.
"Flopsy Bunnies" is kind of a rehash of the first story with more rabbits invading the garden.
The last story is interesting especially because of how long it is and the focus on the villains (which Potter announces is her goal at the beginning of the story.
I loved Beatrix Potter's stories as a child so I was excited to share these with my son.
My son's favorite characters were Peter Rabbit and Benjamin Bunny.
The illustrations in this edition are lovely.
Even though the last story is quite long (we broke it up between 2 days) my son could have listened to whole thing in one sitting.
The older vocabulary and sentence structure is a bit taxing.
I found myself tripping over quite a few sentences.
However, I do feel that it is important to introduce young children to older stories for this very reason.

I can remember reading and loving the Tale of Peter Rabbit when I was a kid, and revisiting it as an adult was no less satisfying. This collection of the four stories was/is wonderful. While Peter Rabbit's tale is my favorite, the other three (The Tale of Benjamin Bunny, The Tale of the Flopsy Bunnies, and The Tale of Mr. Tod) were equally enjoyable.
A book that my children had me read out loud dozens and dozens of times. One of the first books they read independently. The short paragraphs and multitude of pictures simply gave my children the illusion they were reading a simple "picture book with a few more words." This book delighted them and greatly increased their vocabulary. Fantastic illustrations and wonderful stories.
This was a little boring for my son. He's 6 years old almost 7 so maybe I should have waiting to read it to him. Then again I was a little bored as well. However, the pictures are pretty and the storyline is cute. I have to give Beatrix Potter her props for making such cute stories.
These tales are pretty horrific when you actually read them - little bunnies getting "dashed against" things, really mean characters, the bunnies smoke... so I'm glad we read them now so I will remember not to read them when he's older!!
An excellent and timeless classic and worthy read.Some editing on the parents part may be required as some parts were a bit dated in the style of parental discipline to the young rabbits.Can also aid in encouraging eating veggies and drinking chamomile tea!
