https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/31555.Phantoms_in_the_Brain
Ramachandran's approach is that of a scientist and doctor first, the people he describes are very much patients.
They don't actually have to live the spirit if not the practice of it as well.It was written about a patient experiencing the religious revelations that are a known component of certain types of epilepsy.
This is where the patient is always convinced he has had a revelation which is sometimes ecstatic.
Sometimes every fit will bring ecstatic religious revelations with it which convinces them that this is not a brain malfunction but that the Divine has come to them.
Francis Crick—the "Crick" half of the famous "Watson and Crick" duo that discovered the structure of DNA—coined a term (and used it as the title for his book on the subject) called The Astonishing Hypothesis, which represents the idea that all human cognition and perception—every emotion, belief, existential crisis, perceived sight, sound, smell, etc—is essentially the product of (or equivalent to) complex clusters and pathways of neurons and the synaptic connections of neurotransmitters that bind them, encased in bone, and in flux like most things.
While Sontag says that the more we attribute a disease to our mind and to our attitudes the more it betrays our ignorance, Ramachandran tries to answer questions like "Can your mental attitude really help cure asthma and cancer?" - For example, VSR is courageous enough to venture into esoteric areas such as mind-body connection and divine visions and sound them out with the backing of science and a curious imagination.The Victorian attitude that VSR brings to these explorations make the book a pleasure to read and you too can play Sherlock with the neuroscientist as he goes about snooping in the recesses of the mind in each of the cases.The most basic questions about the human mind are still mysteries to us - How do we recognize faces?
Ramachandran is, as one of the cover reviews says, profoundly sane, and has a real sense of what you can get from the scientific method and what you can't, and really understands the way questions that used to be philosophical are inching into the realm of the empirical.He also is sometimes hilarious, really up on the other great popular scientific thinkers out there right now, and has examples and experiments that will completely blow your mind, "Man who mistook his wife for a hat"-style and THEN some.
Few years back I read Oliver Sacks’  The Man Who Mistook His Wife for a Hat and Other Clinical Tales  and was amazed by the cases presented. This book is even more astounding; human brain is such a mystery even today.I knew about amputees’ phantom limbs but not to this extent. And these are not the only cases: one woman did not recognize her arm, saying it’s his brother’s; others completely lost perception of their left part of the body and surroundings. Another, after a car accident, did not re
And these are not the only cases: one woman did not recognize her arm, saying it’s his brother’s; others completely lost perception of their left part of the body and surroundings.
Another, after a car accident, did not recognize his parents, saying they look alike but they are imposters; and they are not the only ones.
All these strange behaviors because of minor or not so minor damage to the brain.There are also quite a few experiments done to understand how brain works and how it remaps the body, like this one which I saw some time ago:https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sxwn1...Both fascinating and frightening in the same time; human body is such a fragile organism.
This book is a direct flight into to the Limbo ...
It mainly consists of anecdotes and cases culled from wide-ranging medical literature, so it serves as a ground for inquiry into the nature, symptoms, effects and treatments of the various psychological anomalies.
I think that's the most crucial thing for any 'popular science' book.
Because, you know, it popular science after all.What I also liked was that every chapter begins with quotes taken from sources as wide as the books of Sherlock Holmes, the Vedas and Shakespeare.
That adds a nice touch.But I think the most important thing I took away (when I read this at 16) was the spirit of scientific enquiry and sense of wonder that this book carries with it.
The pleasure of this book arises from Dr. Ramachandran's enthusiastic writing style, presenting one case study after another, giving us proper details that lead to the "wow" moment - the discovery of something new about the brain, and along the way he makes us feel like Sherlock Holmes (a figure that significantly inspired him to join medicine).
Though some present excellent ideas, they hamper the reading experience by either being too verbose/dull or too technical.We learn from this book that a lot of what we know about the curious sounding functions of the brain is by studying patients with deformities or malfunction, a method used by psychoanalysts in the past, but today's neurologists rely on sophisticated observations and not educated guesses.
Maybe by the hypothesis that "...pain is an opinion on the organism's state of health rather than a mere reflexive response to an injury." There are many syndromes of the same kind that lead to the same uncomfortable conclusion: that the ownership of our body is an illusion: - Charles Bonnet syndrome: a damage in the visual pathway causes a special sort of blindness - reality is replaced by some vivid visual hallucinations; - Capgras' syndrome - the patient, otherwise mentally lucid comes to regard his close relatives as impostors; - Cotard's syndrome - the patient claims that he is dead, that his flesh smells rotten and that worms crawl over his skin; - Fregoli's syndrome - the patient keeps seeing the same person everywhere (here is a possible explanation for racism - one person generated the race hate after an unpleasant episode).Whether these syndromes could be explained by some damages in the brain, there are other examples with not so evident answers: the idiot-savant syndrome - persons whose IQ are very low but have islands of astonishing talent; or the fact that when stimulating the temporal lobes you can experience God. Through conscious beings the universe has generated self-awareness.
Στο «Φαντάσματα στον εγκέφαλο – Ερευνώντας τα μυστήρια του νου» οι V.
S. Ramachandran και Sandra Blakeslee παρουσιάζουν κλινικά περιστατικά νευρολογικών/ψυχιατρικών διαταραχών και αναλύουν τα συμπτώματα με βάση συγκεκριμένες αλλοιώσεις του εγκεφάλου.
Τα περιστατικά και τα σύνδρομα περιγράφονται με τέτοιο τρόπο που μπορεί οποιοσδήποτε να τα διαβάσει και να απολαύσει με μεγάλη ευκολία.
Το ταξίδι στον εγκέφαλο, το πιο μυστηριώδες δημιούργημα στο γνωστό σύμπαν, είναι συναρπαστικό και αναπάντεχο: σε κάθε στάση ένα συγκλονιστικό μυστικό αποκαλύπτεται και μάς προσγειώνει ανώμαλα.
Είναι ένας ύμνος στις νευροεπιστήμες.
Such a shame I didn't get to know about this humbling scientist and his works until yesterday where I got a chance to attend his lecture on "Anomalies on Human Brain".
I love all the brain stuffs, especially all the weird (quite lol) cases of patients!how can a person feel that one half of his body is not present or feels like someone's (say his friends/brother...) how can a person feels pain in his left hand and yelling "god, its hurts like hell"??actually his left hand is amputated, just a phantom hand)why a person feels orgasm in his left leg while having sex with his girl friend?
(again its a phantom leg, not his penis)God must be crazy for creating the ingenious species called "Homo Sapiens".we all are CRAZY!!A MUST READ FOR PEOPLE WHO LOVES TO KNOW AT LEAST HOW OUR BRAIN WORKS??..
A fascinating book about the workings of the brain and the illusion of self. Wonderful!
It talks about the brain's elusive behavior and how it is possible that so many bizarre cases of abnormal psychology exist.
We read about blind spots in the eye and how our brain "fills" them in; about otherwise normal people who believe their parents are impostors who look identical to their real parents; about women who show every single sign of pregnancy except the baby and other remarkable psychological anomalies.Some of these cases are incredibly interesting because they discuss the tight relationship between sight and experience.
One woman who has suffered a brain injury is given an envelope and asked to insert it into a slot.
Very interesting, informative, and easy to follow along, even with all the medical jargon! I will say though the last chapter didn't seem to flow as easy in this regard as the rest of the book did, but I won't hold it against the author haha.I would definitely recommend this book to those interested in the topic!
Vaka'lardan oluşan sinirbilime üzerine bir kitap. Olivar Sacks'in "Karısını Şapka Sanan Adam" kitabına oldukça benziyor. Fakat onun kadar başarılı olamamış.
They decide to fool his brain back into sanity.Kapgrass delusion.Rejects psychoanalytic explainations in terms of oedipus complex (son wanting to fuck their mother and vice versa etc), and favors a neuroanatomic approach.Face recognition areas in temporal lobe and emotional regions in limbic system (e.g. Amygdala).Arthur was tested for GSR (skin dampness) and this showed he had no emotional reaction to his parents which confimred Dr Rama speculation.
It is not just a book informing you of the latest brain research but a warm, funny, often winking invitation from a scientist in the thick of one of the hottest research topics on earth to take a little journey with him, hand in hand.
It is a treat to be allowed into the thought process of this brilliant scientist and his very compelling way of doing science to study how the mind works.
I finally have an answer to the annoying standard interview question....if you could invite three people living or dead to dinner......forget the three people, forget the dead ones, it would be me, this book and my list of questions provoked by the case studies, and Ramachandran.
Ramachandran seems to have made his name explaining how different kinds of phantom limb syndromes function, and he's at his best when he's explaining the weird and miraculous ways the brain copes with the sudden loss of a part of the body.
Also very good is the middle portion of the book, when he expands his survey to related neurological problems, including temporal lobe epilepsy (which seems to put some patients into direct rapport with God) and anosognosia (where the patient refuses to recognize a part of the body is paralyzed).
But overall, a very interesting read, made easier by frequent diagrams and Ramachandran's engaging prose style.
I found this book interesting, but not fascinating.
Ramachandran wrote the book for laymen.
It was probably not easy for him to keep the content digestible for non-scientists, but he did a nice job of presenting complex concepts simply.
The book is an overview of neurology, and Ramachandran demonstrated the functioning of the brain as it relates to human behavior through interesting studies of curious conditions such as phantom limbs, illusions of perception, and personality change.
If you are a non-scientist interested in learning about neurology, I recommend this book.
If you are just looking for a fun pop - science read, there might be better options around.
‘paradigm-shift’ vs ‘conservatism’ modalities), plus some truly fascinating theories on linking temporal lobe epilepsy with various forms religious experience (e.g. breakdown in amygdala connectivity leading to massively enhanced emotional response).Thankfully and contrary to many other neuroscientists and cognitive scientists Rama tries to steer away from philosophy and/or grand theories of mind/consciousness.
There is no reason to expect the timing of perception of decision and neural signals behind it to coincide.My only gripe with the book is the last chapter where he went the pure grand-theory route in trying to explain cogent characteristics of self that any theory of consciousness would need to address.
The key idea is that although we take sight, hearing and all other sensations for granted as simple smooth processes, they are a way more complex than we can imagine.Neither Seeing is like videotaping nor hearing resembles recording.You(ironically by the final chapter you will understand that such propositions like “you” and “I” are themselves far from the truth!
Through 360 pages, Dr.Ramashandran presents a punch of bizarre cases he encountered through his career.The defects & abnormalities these patients have are the keys that helped us to figure out how normal brains working.The interesting thing is that the strangeness of these cases reflects how strange our brains are.
A very brilliant documentary by David Eagleman:https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list...
Translated : https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list...
This book, and it's author, has had a major influence on the direction of the research I am doing as part of my bachelors of science/master of arts degree program in music therapy.I recommend any fan of this author or the subject to watch and read his lectures available online."During the last 3 decades, neuroscientists throughout the world have probed the nervous system in fascinating detail and have learned a great deal about the laws of mental life and about how these laws emerge from the brain.
But far from being humiliating, this idea is enobling, I think.
Ramachandran is humble in expressing his own opinions and good at articulating differing positions in ways that allow the individual to understand where the opposition does differ.The book is highly specialized, and while I have to say there were parts of his work towards the end that I didn't entirely agree with as I felt they were an unfair representation of the positions of most contemporary philosophers, his presentation of the material (which is fascinating) more than does it justice.
If you're interested in what's going on in your brain and how that ties to bigger questions, as well as the ways in which it impacts everyday life, it's a fantastic read.
Uno de los mejores libros sobre aspectos neuropsicológicos, trastornos extraños de la mente y la conciencia y curiosidades de nuestro cerebro y nuestra conducta (miembro fantasma, agnosias, creencias religiosas, emociones, fenómenos mnésicos, etc.).
La obra ya tiene unos añitos y el propio autor ha publicado otras posteriores que quizá estén más actualizadas pero éste no pasa de moda por su originalidad y la forma cercana y comprensible de narrar los experimentos particulares e hipótesis de este conocido neurólogo.
Si te gustan las historias del tipo "el hombre que confundió a su mujer con un sombrero" de Oliver Sacks, te gustará este libro.
Quizá menos comercial, pero igualmente fascinante.
I'm only two chapters in but I already know this book is a badass motherfucker. For one, it was almost called "The man who mistook his foot for a penis." For secondary, this neurologist / sleuth discovered how to cure people of phantom limb pain and in the process made an amazing discovery about the mind.from p. 7: "...it is a physician's duty always to ask himself, 'What does it feel like to be in the patient's shoes?'" For tertiary, this man is the first doctor to, as he puts it, amputate a phantom limb.
This book is the most amazing book which I have read in a long time. Written in clear crisp language, this book provides a great insight into human brain derived from experiments. It is the experiments which makes the book interesting.This book also provides some insights into long standing questions which great minds have been pondering about:- What is consciousness?- Why Religion/God?I think brain is one of the fields which will see a huge development in coming years and reading this book provides a glimpse at how exciting the field will be.
This book again shows how much we still do not know about human brain from a perspective of real world phenomenon: phantom limbs, phantom pain, faulty perception... The author's hilarious and philosophical tone makes it very entertaining at times.Oliver Sack's The Man Who Mistook His Wife for a Hat was mentioned in a few occasions, maybe i will read it this summer.
This is a modern classic in the field, and one can easily see why. Dr. Ramachandran recounts--with great vigor and personality--his many interesting sojourns into the link between brain and experience. His experiments with patients reveal so many intriguing examples of the way brain influences mind and the perceived world and self, and this is an excellent showcase of those truths.
this book blew my mind. neuroscience for the layman? yes please. without patronization? thanks! interesting AND funny? well V.S. Ramachandran, I think you might just be a super hero.
