https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/990093.Ethan_of_Athos
A buddy read with Choko and Maria.A group of guys from Miles Vorkosigan universe decided it was a good idea to create a man-only planet.
The poor guy had bad luck all around: the very first person he met outside of his planet happened to be a dreaded woman.
I need to get the following off my chest right away: I think this is the weakest book of the series so far; let me count the reasons.
The complete inability of local security forces to keep him isolated became a bad joke by the end of the book.
Ethan must, for the first time in his thirty-plus years, cope with the presence of women in his personal world...an alien species to him...while learning about how the rough-and-tumble of the Galaxy's business is accomplished, deal with the end of his partnership with Janos back on Athos, find himself falling in love with the most alien possible alien man, and return to Athos with what sent him out into the Galaxy in the first place: More ovarian cultures for the Athosian Reproduction Centers.
The woman then is of the Devil, but unfortunately She is needed for procreation, so the poor righteous saints have to endure and suffer by engaging in sin over and over, against their will, but they have no choice...
So, armed with the needed biological materials, geneticists, a charter for terraforming a new planet, their religion, and the firm resolution to never suffer a demon woman ever again, the Founding Fathers established the first all male planet on Athos.
can't win 'em all, Bujold.so the planet Athos was founded by some fanatical religious dudes who thought women were the root of all evil.
when we learn that millennia later, Athos has remained a planet of men only, men who fear women as evil's spawn and who procreate by importing ovaries and doing various reproductive science-y type things that I barely understood or cared about.
sorta sounds like it, because there is a whole planet of men who seem perfectly fine without the fairer sex.
how in the world are they happy without any women whatsoever?Athos is only the background, as most of the novel takes place on Kline Station.
For fans of the Vorkosigan Saga, this represents an interesting break from the norm. There are a couple of books in the series focused on Miles' mother, Cordelia (Shards of Honour & Barrayar), the bulk (10+?) are focused on Miles Vorkosigan himself, (although they often feature many other POVs) - and there's one set way earlier in the universe's timeline that doesn't feature any members of the Vorkosigan family at all.And then there's this one...  Ethan of Athos  is set during Miles' Admiral
Sure, Quin is there to save his ass and drag him over the line - but for a Doc from the sticks, Ethan does his best to fight back!I'm guessing a lot of readers took exception to Ethan's home planet - Athos - the all male world, where fathers grow their sons in tanks.
Personally, I thought it was well done - the idea that the planet will always be an economic backwater because it's fighting the uphill cost of 100% artificial reproduction is a nice spin, and as always Bujold handles them personal relationships with a gentle and deft touch (for a sci-fi writer, she's exceptionally good at 'likeable' characters).As it stands outside of the main Saga, this is very much a 'bonus' book - but I thought it was a cracking read and the pages flew by.
The only thing I missed in this Vorkosigan saga installment was Miles himself.
I like Bujold's writing a lot, it always pulls me in and keeps me till I finish the book.
It's rational, not overloaded with detail and often humorous and ironic.It's a skippable book if you want to read saga only for Miles, but in general it's a good sci-fi story, so you can leave it aside for later._______________________Worst Cover GalleryNot that much this time, but still...
- OK, I get the idea, but that looks more like a pee sample.
Peeing wasn't involved in this book.
The book also has a plot, which I don't remember at all except to say it was serviceable and it involves Ethan having to join forces with a beautiful woman.One of the reasons I don't recall the plot is that I spent the entire book waiting for the other shoe to drop, as it were.
Something like that?), and then Ethan goes home to his partner, and you just want to give a very loud HA!
This is the breakfast of champions.So yeah, Sean, I'd also kind of like to see the angel NOT fall in love with someone, just once.
(view spoiler)[And as his status on Athos is growing more and more respectable, I believe that the change is awaiting the planet in the future… I loved, loved the very ending of the book… As well as the fact that Ethan was as closed to falling in love with Elli as it was possible in his indoctrinated brain.
And yet, it’s beautiful and Ethan loves it as his home, so I can only hope it will change for the better and (view spoiler)[with an army of little Urquhart-Quinns (hide spoiler)] the people will be given a choice in the years to come.Finally, this book is so unassuming.
Buddy read with Choko and Evgeny.At first look this book is a lot different from the rest of the Vorkosigan Saga because it misses a Vorkosigan.
To them the idea that woman equals the Devil is so ingrained that at a certain moment in the beginning of the book (view spoiler)[ one of the doctors responsible for the procreation of the Athosans suggests that they can grow themselves a few female fetuses, harvest the ovaries before birth and get rid of the baby right after.

In the universe of Barrayar, the Vorkosigans and all the rest comes a story about a native of a reclusive planet on a critical mission and experiencing massive culture shock while helping to deal with an espionage mystery.Lois McMaster Bujold often features cultures and plots based around the social and political consequences of advances in technology.
The titular character is a doctor who has been dispatched on a mission to procure new ovarian tissue cultures after their last consignment of them appears to have been sabotaged or stolen.This book is largely about Ethan's culture shock on experiencing a society where half of the people are the gender that he's been indoctrinated into thinking as evil and he personally thinks are unnatural.
Surprisingly entertaining. While I missed Miles and the main characters of previous books, I liked Ethan more than I expected to and especially appreciated getting to know and see Commander Elli Quinn in action. I look forward to her character returning as I am told she will. :)
This book deals with Ethan, a physician raised on a planet originally settled by some misogynistic gay men, who, in a future where babies could be selected for sex and gestated in uterine replicators, were spared the necessity of having women around at all.
Over generations, the planet developed its own culture where gay couples, or threesomes, or other family arrangements, and their sons were the norm and women were fabled and slightly threatening creatures in the galaxy outside.But, for all their medical advances, donated human female ovaries were the other half of the baby-production system, and when they began to become senescent, it was necessary for someone to get more.
3.5 starsMiles is completely absent from this Vorkosigan series installment.
The flip side of the female controlled genetic finesse of Cetaganda proves to be Athos, an all male planet rapidly running out of viable ovary cultures at their Rep Centers.
When the batch of new ovaries is sabatoged, Athos sends Ethos to personally select, purchase and escort the replacements.
Even though I missed Miles, Elli and Ethan managed to keep me hopping and flipping pages.
Mystery, torture, murder, galactic genetic experiments, political intrigue bordering on genocide - just about everything you've come to expect from Bujold's imagination.
A fun, fast read and a nice addition to the Vorkosigan series.

It reads as a backwater boy gets thrown into intergalactic espionage, but I particularly liked the setup for a planet of nothing but men eventually becoming the galaxy's largest repository of something that would spoil your reading of the book if you learned about it before-hand.
As sci-fi as social commentary, it wasn't very deep, but it did have significance for the eighties.Overall, the novel was intended and succeeded at being a light adventure, but I'm slightly shallow in what I want from Ms. Bujold.
I wanted more Miles and he was just referred to several times only.
Executive Summary: After a slow start, I thought it finished much stronger. 3.5 stars, rounded up.Audiobook: Grover Gardner once again does a good job. I don't think he really does voices (I find myself drawing a blank as I write this), but I enjoy listening to him. The volume and inflection is good, which for me is often the most important thing anyways. I plan to continue this series on in audio. Full Review This is a pretty short book. It's only about 8 hours in audio. It started a bit rough
A society where homosexuality in book from 1986 seems pretty progressive.
Although the attitudes of other characters in the book towards that seems appropriate to that time, so maybe not all that progressive.Once Ethan got off Athos and met up with Elli Quinn the book got going a bit more to me.
However it took awhile to really get a feel for what was going on, and care all that much about poor Ethan and his quest for new Ovarian samples with which to sustain the population of his planet.There is mention of Miles Vorkosigan, but sadly he doesn't make an appearance.
Ethan of Athos by Lois McMaster Bujold is a book in the Miles Vorkosigan series that has neither Miles nor his alter-ego Naismith in it (except as an off-stage character).Ethan is from an all-male planet who manages population replacement and growth with cell lines from imported ovarian tissue and local sperm donations from approved fathers.
We meet Cetagandan miliary operatives, Elli Quinn (a name from an earlier Miles/Naismith adventure), and Terence Cee (a key to the mystery).I liked this book a lot and thought it paired well with Cetaganda in the Miles, Mystery & Mayhem omnibus.
In acting as an operative for the Dendarii Free Mercenaries, I liked the way Elli Quinn consciously invoked "WWND?" (What Would Naismith Do?)No Miles, but an excellent book!
Ethan of Athos is a non-Vorkosigan book that is severely lacking with the absence of Miles Naismith, but tried to mimic his spirit with the audacious Ellie Quinn.
I really liked Athos and the idea behind it, it was really interesting to see how they fended for themselves without a feminine influence.
He was too passive most of the book, there were very few and far between moments where he shined.Elli, on the other hand, is a great character, especially when you realize she is only pretending to be this bold, adventurous mercenary because she keeps picturing Admiral Naismith and what he would do.
While I enjoyed the fact that this book did not take the easy way out in the end, the main issue I have with Bujold is that she never gives any sense of setting.
The Miles Vorkosigan books, of which this is an offshoot, are funny and entertaining.
But this one was a lot of fun as well.Ethan is an "obstetrician" on a planet occupied solely by men.
They fled the outside world for reasons sort of obscure, and closed off their planet to women.
He find her attractive in the end, but it goes no further.
Not my favourite Vorkosigan book, but very fun nonetheless. I like Elli Quinn a lot, and Ethan Urqhart is a terrific character.
A highly original idea of what a world without women would look like, and an entertaining read as well.
Too bad about how he gets mistaken for a spy his first day on the space station.Though this is part of the Vorkosigan saga, it's conspicuously lacking in Vors of any kind and is more like a futuristic spy thriller than the usual court intrigue or inadvertent con-artistry that Cordelia and Miles bring to the table.
Ethan, despite life-long conditioning, quickly overcomes his aversion to women once he reaches the space station, which I found unrealistic as well as unsatisfying, and Bujold doesn't even attempt to address the construct of gender in this society or what happens if one of Athos's sons turns out to be genderqueer or trans or intersex.
Although we don’t see too much of Athos in this novel—quite quickly it becomes apparent that Dr. Ethan Urquhart will have to leave the womb of his planet and deal with out-worlders, a scary proposition for someone who has been raised to believe that women are dangerous.Ethan is a talented doctor, in charge of conceiving test-tube babies and establishing them in the uterine replicators that Bujold introduced earlier in her Vorkosigan saga.
Ethan, for a variety of reasons, draws the short straw.For those who are seeking more adventures of Miles Vorkosigan, you may safely skip this volume.
I personally would be very interested to see more of Athos and explore its society further.
I’m sorry that Bujold didn’t produce more volumes about Ethan or his brotherhood.Book 218 of my Science Fiction and Fantasy reading project.
3.5 stars.I started this series on a recommendation, bc I dont read much sci fi. And am amazed at how she jumps around between the books. Space opera in number one, couple is married with a son leaving his teen years book two, this is book three and its completely different. But I understand that in book 6, she goes back to the space opera.As I was nearing the end of this, I was thinking, Well, its not that nice guys finish last...this one, from the looks of it, is lucky to have finished at all.
But I understand that in book 6, she goes back to the space opera.As I was nearing the end of this, I was thinking, ¨Well, it´s not that nice guys finish last...this one, from the looks of it, is lucky to have finished at all.
But while I´m glad she´s progressive and made this character gay, it meant that the space opera bit didn´t engage me as much as in book one.
Since I don´t know much about sci fi, I don´t know how often gay characters pop up, but I´m glad she´s open to it.
Really most of the book is a fun action adventure in which the new eggs headed for Athos get ovarynaped and Ethan enters the frightening outside world (full of evil and dangerous women) (he's never seen one before) to buy ovaries from a reputable dealer, only to be dragged into a web of spies and lies apparenlty on the hunt for the missing ovaries.
He grudgingly learns to respect Quinn, they fight the bad guys, much fun ensues.
And his stuggle to fit new knowledge into a traditional world view that had served him very well.
Parts of it do seem rather dated now (especially if you get to really thinking about its set-up/what it's saying about gender and sexuality; Bujold privileges space opera over philosophising, but there were parts which made me raise an eyebrow), and Bujold's vision of the future is sadly white-washed, but it bowls along at a great pace, Ethan and Elli are both pretty great, and there's a happy ending for the non-heterosexuals!
(How often do non-heterosexuals appear in scifi?
Only Bujold can write about a man from a planet that has based their entire religious philosophy on the divinity of the male and evilness of the female (their planet is entirely male due to scientific advancements where babies can be grown in uterine replicators) and somehow have him be likable and good.
I love that about these books.
Bujold has this fantastic way of looking at humanity and exploring ethics and morality in all these weird, twisted cultures that she creates.
I loved getting to know Quinn, and I hope to see more of her in the upcoming books.
The plot of this detour from the Vorkosigan Family Adventures [TM] has a fairly imaginative premise: Ethan lives on a planet inhabited entirely by men (titular Athos), worshipping a male deity (imagine that!), believing women to be sin incarnate (how preposterous) and procreating thanks to ovarian cultures (that sounds about right though).
I feel like the novel could have used a little more space for interrogating that, instead of just having those few nice paragraphs at the end, when Ethan ponders how (absent, reduced to tissue cultures) women nevertheless influence his home.I think the one thing that aged in the novel was the assumption of continued homophobia (and, generally, heterocentrism) in the futuristic society outside Athos.
2.5 starsI feel like this book deserved more. The ideas here are interesting, but are never fully fleshed out. I have so many more questions about how gender roles have changed on a planet without women.
