https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7335334-grand-canary
He has a chance to prove himself once again when the islands succumb to yellow fever, including, devastatingly, a woman whom he has begun to love.No, the story itself is good.
But there are oddities here.Religious fanatics who are too over the top to be believable, elements of dejavu with the h/h suggesting reincarnation, a Madame whose heart is larger than her moral compass, a rather cliched in-your-face jolly Irishman, and an almost comical fistfight that could only happen in Hollywood.It's an odd book.
It probably has.CONTENT:SEX: None shown to reader.VIOLENCE: a fistfightPROFANITY: Very mildPARANORMAL ELEMENTS: Suggestions of dejavu and fateMY RATING: PG
His writing style remains fluid and faultless but the content is devoid of substance. A novel without a plot is insipid to a literary gourmand. I tortured myself through this and at all times wanted to murder the so called heroine of the novel. At least that would have livened things up a bit!
I love AJ Cronin but this one was pretty crap..
A period of a few weeks is all right, but a longer stay makes you notice the power cuts, the expensive life, due to the difficult access to most of these places.It is not just the islands, the Californian myth was proven to be just that: Daniel Gilbert and other scientists have demonstrated that we long to move to California, like we want better, new things: a new car, another house, even a new mistress, but once we have them, well…we want new ones…again and again.It is called the hedonic treadmill.Gran Canary is a book where heroism, bravery and self- sacrifice stand in the face of cynicism and mockery.
Not immpressedI did not enjoy this book at all. Cronin is one of my favourite authors but this was too verbose and flowery. I guess he tried to do something different but it doesn't work for me. He tries to emphasize certain words by repeating them two or three times but this got increasingly aggravating. My geography might be wrong but as all of the action was in Tenerife ? why call the novel Grand Canary?
This is a 1930's style beach book. I read Keys of the Kingdom, then read The Citadel. I am on a sort of A.J. Cronin kick so thought why not try some of his earlier works?This is kind of like a grade B- 1930s movie. Dialogue is overly melodramatic; characters not well drawn. Plot is entirely predictable. Not really worth wasting your time on. Very dated. On to greener pastures with Dr. Finlay's Casebook and the Green Years.
Counterbalancing Mary, is the religious Susan Tranter, who is willing to sacrifice her life for this tortured doctor who she is deeply drawn to.When the ship docks in Grand Canary, an epidemic of yellow fever binds the passengers closer, as Mary falls ill and Harvey is determined to save her, making one wonders if this is purely driven by love or by a need to redeem his past failures.
There is a subtle clash of science with mysticism, and a hint of class elitism when the doctor (Harvey) and his volunteer nurse (Susan) interrupt their humanitarian work in the villages of Grand Canary, helping the locals deal with the epidemic, to nurse the sick Mary.
No puedo destacar la historia, que me parece muy inverosímil, cadena amorosa, amores ¿imposibles?, desde mi punto de vista no existen cosas imposibles, este libro enseña a resignarse ante aquello que supuesta mente esta fuera de tu dominio. Si amas a alguien y eres correspondido, no se supone que debes estar juntos?, simplemente una mala TELENOVELA, los amantes deben ser amantes eternos y no sufrir por la separación terrenal, la historia no me agrado. Agrego una estrella mas por estar bien escrito lo cual ayudo al letargo que entrega la novela.
It's so wonderful. I came about a year ago from that part of the world and reading this book seem so real, so attached of that reality.
Excelent Writer.
Rigtig underholdende, lidt gammeldags, men hyggeligt med sejltur og Tenerife, gode beskrivelse af følelser
