https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/118327.The_Persecution_and_Assassination_of_Jean_Paul_Marat_as_Performed_by_the_Inmates_of_the_Asylum_of_Charenton_Under_the_Direction_of_the_Marquis_de_Sade
The Persecution and Assassination of Jean-Paul Marat, as Performed by the Inmates of the Asylum of Charenton, Under the Direction of the Marquise de Sade.Isn't that it?
Maybe spelling errors.I saw this play performed at Arena Stage in Washington D.C. somewhere around 40 years ago.
It was a great production of a very interesting play, which was all the rage back then.
I should probably take another look at it, seeing as I now know at least a bit more about the French Revolution, which is the context of the play.
The common people- who have withstood the French Revolution and the rise of Napoleon without any noticeable improvement of their lot in life- begin to rebel against the play itself.
The radical Marat may get some of the best lines of the play, but it is the common inmates, the people who live out lives of poverty and can at best hope to move from the chattel of a King to the chattel of an emperor, who steal the show.Sometimes when I read, I can feel all the meaning going over my head.
Possibly the most amazing play I've ever read.
I have never seen it on stage but there is a riveting film under the direction of Peter Brooks that can be found on DVD with a little effort.
But the reading of this play is a revelation in itself.
It is very complex, a play-within-a-play, and works on so many social and philosophical levels that you come away dizzy.
If you read the title, you've read the plot.
But it is the ideas expressed in the play within the play that makes this a classic.
Strange, a little challenging, and an unique experience.
It was some time in the beginning of that last year of secondary school that friends introduced me to the source of Judy Collins' song about Marat: Peter Weiss' play.
Since Weiss was himself a Swedish communist and since his play, through the inmates acting in de Sade's production, gives voice to the interests of "ordinary" people, his allowing de Sade his arguments and demonstrations against the doomed Marat was acceptable.
Years later, in seminary, I had the opportunity to see the BBC teleplay, Marat/Sade, with Vanessa Redgrave and other members of the Royal Shakespeare Company and, so, actually listen to the play.
رویارویی شخصیت های انقلاب فرانسه در مکان شگفت انگیز تیمارستانو فیلم تئاتر بی نظیر پیتر برووک
and the award for longest book title goes to...
Speechless.
It isn't an easy play to review.
It isn't literature that can be easily dissected to the semi-plot that the title of the play betrays.
The beauty comes in the setting.
It comes with the distance the main characters place themselves on stage - both physically and as characters.
They share monologues, righteous moral standards and a prison between them.
The verses are almost always philosophical meditations which can be seen as bunch of pretentious lines or Marxist agenda.
The actors who are performing this play are in an asylum.
I had the good fortune to see it performed life by Poland's national theatre in Warsaw in 1982 in a production that was every bit as good as the one that was filmed, starring Glenda Jackson.Weiss thesis that revolutions involve competing madnesses is very compelling.
His treatment of French political thought during the period of the French Revolution is deft and erudite.Do not bother to read his play.
Try to download or rent a copy of the movie directed by the great Peter Brook and featuring Glenda Jackson, Patrick Magee, and Clifford Rose.
Funny how I haven't read this for years, but a few bits from the production I saw part of (TV version? watched in class) have stuck in my head, inc. "we want what we want and we don't care how/we want our revolution now!" and the singy-songy bit whenever the name Charlotte Corday pops up. Not that you run into a lot of references to Charlotte Corday outside the occasional Jeopardy! question.
ترجمهاش اذیتم کرد،مخصوصن اصرار مترجم برای موزون بودن ترجمهی آوازها
ترجمه‌اش اذیتم کرد،مخصوصن اصرار مترجم برای موزون بودن ترجمه‌ی آوازها
It took FOREVER for me to read this. FOREVER. And not because I didn't want it to end. I thought it would NEVER end. I think my disinterest in this play is further proof that Brechtian alienation and Theatre of Cruelty are just not for me. I'd rather be invited into a world than shunned from it. Perhaps seeing it onstage would change my opinion of it, but as a reading experience? AWFUL. Just AWFUL.
I should actually note I have not read this play in full but there was no option for watched/ performed and I really adored it and wanted to add it. I have seen a short version of this, and participated in tryouts for the play where I both saw and performed monologues from the play. I love the speeches and the poetry!
incredibly dense and a hard read but utterly fascinating. I last read this at Uni and remembered nothing apart from this being the play where the guy is murdered in the bathtub. Sometimes it pays to read something again when you have matured and spent a good deal of time in the author's birth country!
To be honest, I am not sure what to make of this play. I spent the majority of the book terribly confused as to what the premise was and not entire sure of what was going on. these feelings~did subside as I finished the play and the afterword cleared up the remaining confusion. While I think it does have some strong points, ultimately, I'm just feeling "meh" about this book.
Play-within-a-playთავისუფლებისკენ ლტოლვა იყო, არის და იქნება; ბრძოლის სურვილი იყო, არის და იქნება;მსხვერპლი იყო, არის და იქნება;რევოლუცია იყო, არის და იქნება...მაგრამ სანაცვლოდ რა ? ეს კითხვა და რადიკალური ცვლილების სურვილი დამიტოვა ამ პიესამ.
Peter Weiss’ Marat/Sade presented the most original take on the “play-within-a-play” concept that I’ve ever read.
He then contrasted them to French life on the fifteenth anniversary of Marat’s murder when de Sade directed the play.
(Page 56)Mr. Weiss used the character of the Marquis de Sade in amusing ways.
The character explained the setting, the date and the set-up as well as other aspects of the Marat/Sade show.
Reading Marat/Sade with this context would give the play more impact as it’s cerebral instead of action driven.
He created a sort of staging that allowed theater to separate itself from film, the be particularly theatrical.The residents of a French asylum reenact the demise and assassination of one of their great revolutionary leaders, Jean-Paul Marat.
(His works are filled with blood and violence and sex - he is where we get the word Sadism.)Sade knew Marat, and he casts himself as a character who steps into the play to make his points.
Also, when the play turns violent, Sade and the director of the asylum debate.
Sade plays the disillusioned revolutionary, Marat the radical (bourgeois) revolutionary, and Roux (described in the dramatis personae as a radical socialist) who advocates for the revolution of the sans-culotte (he is silenced and dragged away as he ends his radical invocations).Despite the hefty themes of the play, there's definitely a sense of levity running throughout.
By the end of the play it feels like a revolution is about to break out before Coulmier abruptly calls for the curtains to be dropped, ending the play.Also, a lot of the play is structured in a Classical way (it is in verse as opposed to prose) despite having heavy postmodern themes (ambiguity/undecidability, metatheatricality) which seems unique to me.Overall, I thought the script was good, and I see there is a filmed version of it.
The synopsis of this play sounds brilliant: the sectioned Marquis de Sade writes a play, acted by his fellow paitients, about the failures and hypocrisy of the French revolution.
It was none of that and it fails on so many of the things it attempts:Good idea: Sade harangues Marat for the revolution falling a part.Boring execution: He does that by repeatedly saying it over and over from page one to the last, merely hammering the exact same point with little variation, to the point of tear inducing boredom.Great idea: The paitients have numerous issues which make them poor actors.Shite execution: They do nothing which in some way elavates the play.

The question is whether anything can be done.The French Revolution ended up doing little for the poor and disenfranchised.
The play compares the viewpoints of Marat and Sade.
Marat promotes an active (revolutionary) role in society, whereas Sade – who seems the most rational of any character in the play – promotes the life of the individual (anarchist?), seeing any attempt to improve the world order as doomed to failed.
I suppose the play questions Marat’s methods – and role - in history.
To me, his role in the French Revolution was one bloody disaster after another.
Jean Paul Marat on vallankumouksellinen jakobiini ja girondistien sekä aatelisten kuolemanlistojen kirjoittaja.
Hän kirjoitti myös kansaakiihottavia vallankumousta tukevia kirjoituksia.
Näytelmässä Marat's repliikit ovat autenttista materiaalia.
Marat sairasti ihokeliakiaa ja siksi vietti paljon aikaa ammeessa olotilaansa helpottavissa hoidoissa.
Marat'n murhaa girondisti Charlotte Corday.
Näytelmä näytelmän sisällä.
De Saden näytelmän aiheena on Marat'n vainoaminen ja murhaan johtaneet syyt.
Murhaan johtavat ajatukset ja keskustelut on pilkottu osiin ja hidastelleen viedään loppuun.
De Sade seuraa tapahtumia ja osallistuu keskusteluihin Marat'n kanssa.
Keskustelut eivät ole autenttisia, ainoastaan Marat'n repliikit.
Individualismi versus poliittinen/sosiaalinen/yhteiskunnallinen muutosvaatimus.
De Saden poliittinen sadisti-fantasia.
Hän on tarttunut Marat'n hengennostatukseen ja tehnyt siitä omanlaisensa irvikuvan.
I liked the themes, too - like equality versus uniqueness (or if they contradict each other or not, what does equality mean after all), what happened after the revolution, are the people coming out of the revolution better than who went in, censorship...and then, why 4 stars?
I'm gonna be honest and I'm not gonna be one of those snobs who are going to say they understood everything quickly and entirely - the language and the themes in the debate were sometimes hard to read for me.
This piece of total theater is based around a play within a play: the Marquis de Sade putting on a rendition of the assassination of Jean-Paul Marat from the confines of an asylum.
The central aspect of the play surrounds the idea of revolution with de Sade and Marat having an ongoing dialogue about man's individual role v.
The Coulmier refuses to question the past, which has passed, whereas de Sade is still interested in the soul and Marat's role in the revolution, his totality and tendency toward dictatorship, man's inner self and society's social unrest, the power of the pen, etc.
This play within a play illustrates the last moments of Marat's life by the Marquis de Sade and asylum crew.
This is quite possibly the only time I didn't find Sade's dialog painfully boring.
Being that it's not actually Sade but Weiss.Excerpts I liked from the play: Marat: The important thing is to pull yourself up by your own hair to turn yourself inside out and see the whole world through fresh eyes.Four Singers: Don't soil your pretty little shoes the gutter's deep and red Climb up climb up and ride along with me the tumbrel driver said.Marat: And what's a bath full of blood compared to the bloodbaths that will come.
I just got some informations about Kaufman and The Laramie Project from our friend Amy in Drama and Theatre group, and it reminds me Peter Wiess, the German-Check-Swiss-Swede playwright. I don't know what his theatre form is called, kind of interview-documentary performance which is based on the real story... as far as I can remember I enjoyed his plays a lot. Reading "The Persecution and Assassination ..." was a big thoughtful joy I had at the begining of 1970's ... one should be interested in both theatre and politic to be able to enjoy Peter Wiess pieces ...
I'd long heard about this play -- a hissing and a scandal when it opened in the 1960s -- but never read it, so when the opportunity arose, I did. I am glad to know more about Marat, Sade, and French revolutionary history, and the stage pictures it presents are incredible (and in their own time, groundbreaking) in their grotesquerie; but it's not really what you'd call a good time. Also, this translation was written in rhyme, and the rhyme just read awkwardly to me throughout. Maybe it's better in German. Or maybe someone should retranslate it in blank verse.

I was in a production of this in college. I had a very minor, non-speaking role - and it's still the one play I want to go back and do again! Even to play the same non-speaking character.There was a professor on campus who had seen 13 productions of this play, including the original German production and the legendary English-language production by Peter Brook.He said ours was one of the best he'd seen - easily in his Top 3. I can't honestly provide any kind of objective critique of this play - it has too many wonderful memories for me!
Not so much a review as a reminiscence of playing the part of Jacques Roux, 'former priest and radical socialist', in a workshop production at my old school when I was 19.One heck of an experience for all of us...and the one and only time when I have experienced possessing total power and control over a large group of people - it was an alarmingly unpleasant sensation of complete dominance...Happy days! :)
