https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/197998.The_Dead_Bird
And as a mother, I'd really like to add a line, "and then the children washed their hands."
It is true, many children do seem to enjoy the stab of pathos incumbent on finding dead a creature that has no personal weight for them.
Unless you are a kid who has been accused of being morbid or something; then I suppose it helps to know you aren't alone.
Go on, kids, dwell on dead birds and darkness and roses losing their petals.
Wear black if you want, or conversely, forget the bird and go back to playing tag with your pals as the kids here do at the end.
Who wants to dwell on mortality?I read this edition with illustrations by Remy Charlip, not the Christian Robinson reissue.
We think we can understand it as adults, ascribe our religious or personal philosophies of life after death or a lack thereof, and process the gaps and holes the losses we experience leave in our lives.
The Dead Bird, however, portrays no such loss.
It begins with a dead bird, not a live one, and the children react to the bird's death as a fait accompli.
The children are uniquely positioned to mourn the bird's loss, because they have not known or loved the bird, and thus do not feel the loss themselves.
Some children find a dead bird, and while they're sad that the bird will never fly again, they're glad that they can hold a funeral. And, so they do, complete with a song, and shed tears. Children may enjoy this one more than I did. Originally published in 1938, this is a recent reissue with illustrations by Christian Robinson.
Wonderful book that will help children cope with death by celebrating life.
If you were one of the people who flipped out over that, then you're not going to want to read this book.I'm not sure why this whole, "Don't touch it, you'll get a disease" idea persists now that we've got flea collars and inoculations for plagues.
It's just been re-illustrated and republished this year (2016) so that a whole new set of kids can experience death vicariously.The wonderful thing about this book is that it illustrates, literally and figuratively, a common moment in a child's life.
Perhaps.It's ok for children to be curious about death and it's ok for them to see and even touch dead animals.
5 stars for making me cry in the library."And every day, until they forgot, they went and sang to their little dead bird and put fresh flowers on his grave."So tender! So poignant! So utterly devastating!I can never read this book again.
The book I wanted to read is the original, illustrated by the acclaimed Remy Charlip.
I have no idea if I'd like his art better for this story, but I have to admit I'm not keen on Robinson's.
I wonder if Brown's estate wanted this to be in print for modern children, but Charlip's didn't?
Whatever.The story itself captures the children's perspectives and all their feelings about what death means perfectly and concisely.
so of course they'd have a funeral with all the solemn rituals.I believe I'd rate this four stars if I didn't know there was an original to compare it to.
Perhaps in its day it was bold and revolutionary for being so matter-of-fact about addressing death in a manner children could understand but I'd prefer a direct conversation with my kids and I am able to do that. The constant reminder that the bird was dead felt like.....well...beating a dead bird perhaps.I'd put this in a limited scope of usefulness akin to potty-training books. They may help in a specific process or context but it's not exactly the sort of story you sit down to read just for the sake of reading a book to your child.
I am misty-eyed as I type. Seldom have I come across a book that treats death as the simultaneously sacred and mundane occurrence that it is, and with such powerful simple and straightforward text. and the illustrations...did anyone else see this book being translated really easily into a Wes Anderson short film? Brilliant.
I love the frankness of this book as it deals with the dead bird and how the children encounter, experience, and honor it. Robinson's illustrations keep it lighter and match the pitch-perfect childlikeness of this one. Touches on the natural world, on loss, on ritual. It's weird, but it's weird-good.
I don't think that this book is appropriate for children. It's very morbid and a little too descriptive.
I read this book for work.
I believe it is out of print now, but it follows four children as they come across a dead bird.
They hold it and listen for a heartbeat, but realize it is dead.
They decide to bury it, hold a funeral, sing to the bird, and mark the grave.
They return to place new flowers on the grave and sing to the dead bird until eventually, they resume play.
I read an interview of Margaret Wise Brown in her alumni magazine and also learned about the illustrator who passed away in August of this year.
A picture book about four kids who find a dead bird and bury it. Some might find it morbid. Some might see that it's a great little story about how young kids handle death, and how they pay tribute to the dead, well, until they forget. Simple, but wonderful. I'd read it to my kids. Then again, I'd read Edward Gorey to them too.
What a weird and wonderful picture book. Also excellent timing for this book to appear on our new book shelves, as I accidentally killed a baby bird yesterday and have spent the last 24 hours traumatized.
I want to do a creepy story time with this book, The Tailypo, Louis King of the Sheep, etc.Also have concluded that Margaret Wise Brown books are basically what being on drugs must be like.
It was... interesting. Kind from my funeral school perspective (but the kids need to wash their hands xD). Odd from my library associate side. So, yeah...
Very much a book for kids and one I’d say loves children. Very sweet.
This book was first published in 1938 which explains SOOOOO much because this book was hella weird.
With stunning traditional media and Photoshop illustrations, this picture book breathes new life into a memorable classic, published originally in 1938, if you can believe that.
There is simply something that breaks my heart in its truth in those closing words, though: "And every day, until they forgot, they went and sang to their little dead bird and put fresh flowers on his grave" (unpaged).
Clearly, savvy teachers will want to have their students compare and contrast this modern depiction of the children's classic with the illustrations in the original one.
In the story, a group of children find a dead bird in the park.
It captures that intense wave of sorrow upon finding a dead animal, the immediate connection children have to that creature and the importance of following through in a process of loss.
There is also a feeling of time passing and life moving on, even though the sadness was so large at first.Robinson’s illustrations are engagingly simple with whimsical touches.
The illustrations show the same kind of frankness that marks the text as well.Refreshingly honest and forthright, this picture book is a smart reworking of a classic story that will resonate with today’s children.
A diverse group of children stumble across a dead bird on their way to play in the park.
They were sorry it was dead and could never fly again.
Margaret Wise Brown revolutionized children's literature with Goodnight Moon by insisting that instead of the fairy tales and fantasy that traditionally made up the bulk of stories marketed to young people, children wanted to read books that reflected the world around them and their own experience.
With The Dead Bird, Brown tackles the issue of death.
Rather death is a reality the children encounter, comprehend, and accept with sadness.
They mourn the loss of possibility accompanying the loss of life: now the bird will never fly or sing again.
I love Christian Robinson's illustrations and they were what drew me to the book; I did not realize at first that it was an new version of a 1960s publication by Margaret Wise Brown, author of Goodnight Moon and The Runaway Bunny.
I love how Robinson updated the work to make the children multicultural and the setting more modern.
But I particularly loved how he, and Brown, demonstrate the ways in which children accept death, mourning, and renewal.
This book gets a 4 just for the title.
I love how ahead of her time Margaret Wise Brown was in putting this book out.
She believed children should talk about difficult topics, and that books can help open the conversation.
For death, Brown and Robinson) displace the darkness of the topic by making it about a bird rather than a person, by having a group of kids do the action together, and by setting the book in a vibrant green springtime.
The springy setting reminds me of The Smiths' song, "Girlfriend in a Coma" which has one of the catchiest bouncy tunes I've ever heard, and I so appreciate that kind of irony.
I love the reillustrated version by Christian Robinson - the art is lovely. I was really moved by the story. Picture books about death are hard to come by, and this is just perfect for opening up a conversation.
A simple tale about death. Often teaching children about this sometimes scary occurrence can be more approachable when dealing with an animal. The text is easy but direct and the pictures are dated but for me were familiar and soothing.
Such a book of childhood. Love this new edition with these illustrations.
Children find a dead bird in the park and give it a funeral. Originally published in 1938, this is a newly illustrated edition with art by Christian Robinson.
Spare, heart-wrenching, perfect.
Even with updated illustrations, this still holds up as a) a book I would not give to children and b) a bizarre account of dealing with death. I highly recommend a dramatic reading among adults.
