https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/148345.Baal
بعل ، يك اثر قابل توجه ديگه از برتولت برشت .
بعل اولين نمايشنامه اي بود كه برشت نوشت و سرگذشت شاعر جواني است كه بي دغدغه از لذت هاي دنيايي بهره مي جويد و چون به سيري و اشباع مي رسد مرگ را برمي گزيند .
.در اسطوره هاي بين النهرين بعل خداي طوفان ، باران و باروريست .
قسمت مورد علاقم از اين نمايشنامه مكالمه ي بعل با ولگرد و ميكده ي اشپيتال بود .
چون به احتمال زياد اصلا با ترجمش قابل مقايسه نيست .
This wasn’t what I had expected. This is a bizarre tale of a charismatic roustabout, think Andy Griffith as Lonesome Roads. He swims in an endless ocean of brandy, his stupor affords him the carnal favors of nearly every woman and a license for some beautiful if nihilistic poetry. The play is a series of brief episodes which advance Baal through most conventions into a naturalistic denouement which recalls the vision of von Stroheim. The ambiguity of this depravity, draws its motivation into question: does Brecht’s Darwinian vacuum anticipate the Final Solution? I will steer clear of such conjecture.
Even after reading the play a second time, I still cannot resolve the ambivalence I feel towards Baal.
The play seems to offer a kind of "vision" of the kind of life that one can lead in a world that would eventually destroy or envelope you, unhinging any kind of normal moral standards that one holds.
While I can understand the grounds for such a vision, that only in the end is the beginning, it does not mean that I necessarily agree with it.
Neither do I feel that it has resolved issues with regards to strength and weakness.
3-3,5 Sterne.
Man könnte von der „wahren Asozialität der Gesellschaft“ sprechen, die der „Anti-Held“, der asoziale Protagonist, zu Tage fördert, indem er der Zivilisation grade den Rücken kehrt und zurück zur Natur kehrt und sich auf seine tierischen Instinkte verlässt.Oder man könnte erwähnen, dass die hohe Gesellschaft die niederen Dinge in Kunst aushalten kann (da sie gleich zu Beginn den Choral des Baal bewundern und lobpreisen, der aber seine Weltanschauung darstellt) – wenn dies dann aber, wie von Baal, in der Realität umgesetzt und ausgelebt wird, ist es ein Tabubruch.
Man könnte noch viel schlauere Dinge als diese sagen und feststellen, dennoch bin ich enttäuscht und fand es nicht ausdrucksstark, berührend oder irgendetwas.

Baal is Brecht’s first work and it premiered in Leipzig in 1918 in the Altes Theather -which went destroyed during the second world war.
The play was prohibited after the premiere because it was seen as “anarchic”.
Brecht wanted to write an antithesis to the play of the future nazi-poet laureate Hans Johst, Der Einsame.
For his protagonist, Brecht chose the figure of the French poet François Villon as source of inspiration.There are diffentent versions of the text and before watching it on stage I read the second Fassung, dated 1922, in order to get linguistically prepared.
بعل 1918، اولین نمایش نامه ی بلند برشت است که در بیست سالگی نوشته.
اگرچه این نمایش نامه در ابتدا بصورت "موزیکال" بوده، اما ظاهرن برشت، در روایت های بعدی، آن را به متنی برای "تیاتر حماسی" درآورده.
بعل که شاعری ست دائم الخمر و هرزه، بصورت یک ضد قهرمان تعریف شده که رفتار و گفتارش خلاف موازین جامعه ی بورژوایی ست؛ مطرود و منفور، بدون خواب و خیال و آرزو، ضد قهرمانی که قهرمان می شود، ایده آلیستی رمانتیک که از شهر رانده می شود، و در پیرامون شهر، زنباره و مشکل ساز، پرسه می زند.
I started the first play, Baal, very skeptical.
After the first two scenes, I could hardly make sense of anything- it all seemed an abstract jumble of lazy philosophies.
Of course, the play is a sort of tragedy, but the attitude of the characters and the whimsy at which Baal and Ekart interact really inspired the pagan inside me.
There were definitely some rich quotable parts, though they won't make a lot of sense out of context.
I've decided to take a pause from the other plays for a while, however.

Best lines in the play are:BOLLERBOLL: Do you believe in God?BAAL: I always believed in myself. But one could become an atheist.Bertolt Brecht was a genius. The play reminds me of a precursor of Neil Gaiman's "American God's" in which Brecht's "Baal" is nearly an archetype of Gaiman's "Wednesday" (Odin).
Ah the roots of the film "Naked." Has anyone seen the Bowie version from the late 70's? I have the recording of the songs but never saw the tv production. It's there somewhere. Oh by the way I love this play by Brecht. And the songs are beautiful.
I've heard that there is a major project underway bringing updated translations of Brecht into English. I hope these early plays are near the top of the list, so these moldy Eric Bentley versions can be returned to the attic.
why- preparing one line summaries of Brecht's edifice. Baal: Story of a drunken dissolute cult of genius poet outcast who after roaming countryside womanizing brawling, his seducee drowns herself, spurns his pregnant mistress, kills his friend is hunted by police and dies alone in a deserted hut.
Brecht is someone i'll have to come back to. He is brilliant. It's not every man who can turn tragedy into a musical. I will write a decent review for all of Brecht's work, in due time!
An extraordinary force of perception and articulation is shown in BAAL. The Elephant Calf is another strong reason for reading these three surperlative works of forthright excellence.
Not my favorite of Brecht's plays, though I was intrigued to find a record with David Bowie's versions of the songs from 'Baal.'
Baal was hilarious.
Three and a half stars. Interesting play. Listening to Bowie's Baal EP and thinking it would have been a lot more engaging on stage (as most plays are).
BAAL - 4 starsA Man's a Man - 3 starsThe Elephant Calf - 2 stars
Brecht is too dark for me. I am glad I had the benefit of a professor to guide me through his work.
Confronting and uncomfortable.
Read for grad school: Baal
2.5
My first play. What a dunk into a weird world view and a wonderful group of actors.
Baal, su protagonista, un escritor bisexual, adicto al alcohol y mujeriego, muestra la parte más oscura del ser humano.
Brecht pone así en cuestión los valores éticos y morales que comenzaban a tambalearse ya a principios del siglo XX.
La violencia que encontramos a lo largo del texto, nos muestra la decadencia del propio Baal con ciertos escenarios como el río, los árboles enraizados, el cielo azul, las nubes blancas...
Éstas imágenes contrastan con la personalidad del propio Baal y los escenarios en los que el protagonista se mueve.
I only read A Man's A Man.It's a funny thought, a man is only as great as his name, while also being as good as any other. Brecht writes it with a wit, and the screenplay is tight, all things are considered.
for all brecht later gains in masterliness, his youthful sparkiness remains precious. bentley's a bit too interfering
