https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/842814.Thoughts_and_Meditations
Αυτό το βιβλιο είναι μια συλλογή διαφόρων κειμένων που εκδόθηκε μετά το θάνατο του συγγραφέα.
Αναφέρω μερικά αποσπάσματα στα οποία κατα τη γνώμη μου φαίνεται το μεγαλείο και οι άξονες που ανέδειξαν τον Χαλίλ ως έναν απο τους πιο αξιόλογους συγγραφείς του Αραβικού κόσμου και οχι μόνο.
"...καθώς το λουλούδι παίρνει ζωή και αρωματική ευωδία απο τη γη, ετσι κι η ψυχή παίρνει σοφία και δύναμη απο την αδυναμία και τις πλάνες της ύλης." , "...Η αγάπη ειναι μαγική ακτίνα που εκπέμπεται απο το φλογερό πυρήνα της ψυχής και φωτίζει τη γύρω γη.
Kahlil Gibran is one of the most profound poets of our time.
(He died during the 1930's-not sure of the exact year.) When you read Gibran you immediately notice that he does not use complicated words or structure to convey his message.
hodge podge.)His message is simple and powerful.
One must, in order to gain the release of his voice, read slow and thoughtful.
Some readers can read anything anywhere anytime no matter what the distraction.
I also discourage readers from doing that with "Thoughts and Mediations".
I highly recommend reading this book.
Kahlil Jibran was recommended to me by my Father. This book is a collection of short stories which is merely 80 pages long. Hence, a one-sit-through read with The Enchantress being my personal fave. Subjectively, Kinda boring but very profound. Makes you want to read The Prophet.
A collection of parables translated by Anthony R. Ferris. I probably would have enjoyed these more when I was younger--a lot younger. The preface is the most interesting part of the book. Gibran was a fascinating man who wanted a world free of oppression, ignorance, suffering, superstition. What he saw was a world where the rich and powerful abused the poor and weak. But if his solution to the problem is the nonsensical stories gathered here, we are never going to solve such problems.
Beautiful collection of writings by Kahlil Gibran; famous poet and author.
How do u being reading? Can anyone help
For anyone looking to reach a higher spiritual understanding, this is a "must" read.
This book was recommended to me by a friend, and it was completely different from anything I've read before.
The thoughts themselves were quite interesting and quotable - 'Those who do not spend their days in the land of dreams are slaves of time' is something I, as a bookworm, can absolutely support - though I think the topic of love was a bit overvalued.
I think (or at least hope) it's perfectly possible to life a happy and fulfilling life even if you never find a romantic partner.
In this miscellaneous collection, it seems like Gibran sees the world in Platonic ideals and some sort of Eastern-like union with perfection.
Gibran comments on the science of evolution and says that ideal beings evolve and that through "Reason" (as a principle of evolution) "men are raised above themselves and can approach the sublime."If one is not inclined toward this perspective, the writing can be a slog.
Yet, it's not that easy to dismiss Gibran.
There are some good stories in this collection that resonate (Martha, the orphan, turned beautiful, tasted love, died as a prostitute in squalid circumstances.
Or, in "the speechless animal," a dog comments on man's lack of loyalty).

Aphorisms,individual accounts,short stories on a number of ideas,events and historical facts by one of the greatest writer who emerged from the levant in the last century.I wonder how much his heart would ache to see the conditions there in the modern times under Islamic State.From stories involving old gods of love from Classical antiquity of Assyria and relating it to modern arab kingdoms, to thoughts about his contemporary arab society and also life in those regions on the eastern seaboard to the Mediterranean ocean.
I devoured this book, which I both regret and not regret. It's meaty, and I will have to read it again. But it was also my first real exposure to Gibran, and I fell in love with the lyricism. Blame it on NRE, I guess.
It's pretty hard to go wrong with Gibran.
I read this over and over - Every month or so I pull it off the shelf and open up to any page at random....it always leads me to contemplation
I never was a big fan of poetry, but there is such beauty in the words of this great writer that each word touchs gently my soul.
Good!
Full of stories and poems that are tragic, romantic, fantastic and everything in between. He is fast become a favourite author.
I love the lyrical rhythm of his words. Though I like some of his other books better.
Be still my heart...
I actually have the hardcover of this.
"Ο Απρίλης θα έρθει αλλά εκείνος που γυρεύει τον Απρίλη χωρίς τη βοήθεια του χειμώνα ποτέ δεν θα τον βρει".
“You are weak and powerful and humble and haughty. You are pliant and rigid, and clear and secret.”
Soft, sense-filled words and luring imagery, Gibran reads like a psalm or fable. Whether poem or something more prose-y, he speaks like a storyteller, rich in metaphor and image as he expounds on love, death, beauty, freedom and oppression. "Through the thorny path of the valley illuminated by a full moon, the procession of victory walked behind the cavalcade of Death and the spirit of Love led the way dragging his broken wings."
