https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6457229-the-monstrumologist
Soooo this one is about a rather particular Monstrumologist and his apprentice chasing headless man-eating monsters across Victorian New England.
Apart from the first and last chapters, which are introduced in modern times (and which I don’t care for), the entire novel is told from the point of view of Will Henry, the Monstrumologist’s pint sized apprentice.
There is a character twist two thirds of the way through the book that I just did not see and I literally gasped on a plane.
Then I was so delighted that a book had made me gasp on a plane that I punched Lover in the shoulder and made wild hand gestures.
(Click their names for their review.^^)Plus, I am a huge fan of Uncle Rick's Fifth Wave series, so this is practically a win-win.After reading the book, I perfectly understand why any reader who is fan of horror, mystery, pure gore, dry humor, mystery, perfectly embodied characters of the Victorian era, pure literary creativity and imagination and exemplary intelligent writing would fall crazily in love with this book.
(this is the writing language throughout the novel^^) and their encounter with these human eating preys called, Anthropophagi which perfectly shaped children's imagination of a monster.
okay, so monsters.this reads like victorian teen fiction, only with more arterial spray.
and then i read some really great teen fiction, and felt ashamed for being so dismissive without having done any actual legwork.
but this book is pretty much the way i thought teen fiction was before my conversion.
it's fine...for kids.
it's got a fast pace; even though it is long,you just burn right through it, there are a lot of action sequences, the characters aren't terribly original or developed, but it's all about the monsters, right?
so, there's that..you know, for the kids.but, it is probably a fine, quick halloween read.
Take a lesson, Pellinore.Okay, now for the book itself—let's call it 3.5 stars.There are numerous reasons why I should have loved this book: -Creepy Victorian-era setting (albeit on the other side of the pond) and appropriately florid, descriptive writing style (you all know I’m a sucker for books that use 5 words in instances where 1 would do just fine)-Strange things afoot, including the appearance of terrifying, murderous creatures-Shadowy pasts and dark deeds to atone for-Character named for King Pellinore (respect: dude broke the sword that Arthur drew from the stone)-Scones.
I love both shows because they deal with mysteries and the macabre, they’re infused with equal parts humor and tragedy, and lastly, they both have charming main and supporting characters.
I loved this book to gory bits for the same reasons as I love Superlock and let me breakdown the ways:*Characters – typical to Victorian gothic, we have the mad scientist, the orphan, the seemingly incompetent constable and, uh, a Van Helsing-y monster hunter.
All the main characters in this book are morally ambiguous.
I’ve read The Fifth Wave books so I know that Rick Yancey doesn’t shy away from blood and gore, but he overdid himself here.
Characters like him are the very reason why I will never get tired of books.•The horror stuff: I don't know if I've ever shared this secret of mine with you, but I belong to that category of people who are afraid even of the air they breathe.
This was totally fine for me, but some of you may expect from the book something more properly horror-ish, and either I became more tolerant after years and years of abstinence or The Monstrumologist doesn't aim to scare you out of your wits in the first place.•Sometimes, I felt like my interest in the story was walking on thin ice.
Original review posted on Books With Chemistry on February 2015, even though I read this for the first time on July 2014. “These are the secrets I have kept. This is the trust I never betrayed.But he is dead now and has been for more than forty years, the one who gave me his trust, the one for whom I kept these secrets.The one who saved me … and the one who cursed me.” When I first found about this book, I didn't quite want to read it. I was really hesitant to pick it up. I already had not-so-h
For example, if you're a hunter, you have to know how the prey thinks so as to get hold of it...and in this case, if you're a monstrumologist, then I suppose you must be one of the monstrosities you claim to hunt in order to do a good job.The character development in the book is done in such a good way that you could almost feel them as real people.
He's now an old man writing down his memories, and we know his past was horrible and that he is doomed.The doctor I mentioned before, Dr. Warthrop, is the other major character of the book.
Yet if I do like wondering what characters really think and analyzing their actions, in my opinion I haven't near enough material here to work with : everyone keeps telling me that Warthrop is complex and multi-layered, but HUH?
As it is, I know how old Will Henry interprets them, and if his thoughts aren't (always) uninteresting, by no means do I have any insight about what he was thinking when he was younger.
Thankfully, there is a strong story with a compelling set of characters to balance out the unsettling, distasteful scenes.
For the doctor is a cold man, completely devoted to his work as a scientist who studies monsters.
The doctor and Will embark on a quest to seek and destroy these monsters that makes for harrowing reading.I have to admit that this book had some moments that were hard to read.
In fact, the man that the doctor summons to help to hunt and to kill the anthropophagi might be considered a human version of a monster himself.
Well that was, uh... a bit narly and different. I felt sorry for Will Henry who was only 12 and had a lot to deal with living with this man and finding out some revelations. Curioser and Curiouser .....I guess I will eventually finish the series just to see the end game!
A note: I promise the follow is actually a review and not my application for the position of President of the Rick Yancey fan club.  "There are times when fear is not our enemy. There are times when fear is our truest, sometimes only, friend.” "…for only a mad man believes what every child knows to be true: There are monsters that lie in wait under our beds.”When I was younger I never believed in monsters.I like to think it was because even then I was a little clever clogs who knew that monsters
But The Monstrumologist was not the book that I was expecting.Don’t get me wrong, I was dying to read it because in my head it was a story about a cute boy running around with a cantankerous old man fighting monsters.
I love the way that Yancey dealt with certain characters and situations but I can’t talk about them because of secret secrets.But I’ll just say this: There are lots of monsters in this book but not all of them have fangs dripping in blood.
When he pushed Will Henry, I hated him, but I respected understand why he have to do it.So one of the reasons why The Monstrumologist is a great book is that it shows us that yes..
we are all monster.ReviewTash's review convinced me to make my own fangirl review for Warthrop-baby.The Monstrumologist is definitely one of the best books that I've ever read.
He's the kind of person who makes other people wants to punch him.The The Monstrumologist is the type of book that I wouldn't hesitate to recommend.
Here are the reason why you should buy a copy of this book and read it:The suspense is top-notch.The book has this thing called "character development".Pellinore Warthrop.
I kid you not.See, I have a not-so-secret part of me that digs violence and gore in books and movies, so I was practically foaming in the mouth when I learned (through Vane's kick-ass lengthy review) that the story is about chomping, man-eating monsters.So obviously I expect a lot of bloody entrails flying everywhere.
The tone is  strangely soothing and it just really calms me down when I read which is saying something because I shouldn't even be calm when crazy stuffs keep happening left and right!I perked up every time Warthrop explains about the anatomy of the Anthropophagi to Will Henry.
In this house, also lives a monstrumologist, a monster hunter who is fascinated by these creatures and pursues learning more and more about them secretly although now he can't keep it buried any more for the Anthropophagus have struck their first victim.The Monstrumologist is strictly a book for the strong-hearted who are capable of digesting horrible monsters, disgusting diseases, gruesome details and high-level suspense.
Even a single noise in the kitchen can raise the hair on the nape of the neck.It feels like the author has mastered the art of scene and suspense development.
3.5 adult imageI agree with Frosch. This book is yucky. By yucky, I mean totally gross and stomach-churning. With the book's graphic and vivid descriptions of the gory and bloody scenes, I can always hear my stomach complaining and twisting not of hunger but of disgust. If it can speak I know my stomach will beg me to stop reading this book.The Monstrumologist is a great book. I know I got bored with the first half of this book because the writing and I didn't get so well but I thought it was go
I know I got bored with the first half of this book because the writing and I didn't get so well but I thought it was good all the same.
When a book made me think and feel things and imparted knowledge and stirred something in me (e.g. textbooks), I labeled it good even I had difficult times reading it.Besides, the second half redeemed itself and rectified my boredom to anticipation and excitement.
The story of his past and the longing for his father revealed his true self that he won me over.Nonetheless, I admired Will James Henry for he is a brave, well-mannered kid on his time.
But, I think there are a lot of things about this book that a lot of younger teenage readers might not enjoy.
And yes, most of it was really frightening and disgusting, and caused me to make faces like this:But it takes a lot of skill to create such memorable images!The whole thing sort of reminded me of reading something Shelley/Poe-esque, crossed with Sherlock Holmes or something.
Although, I think that might just be because Dr. Warthrop reminded me a lot of Sherlock––in love with his work but usually unfeeling towards other people, brilliant but also kind of insane, etc.
This book wasn't great for me.
Going into it, I was expecting lots of different monsters creeping and crawling everywhere and tearing people apart, but that didn't happen so much.
The monstrumologist and his assistant, Will Henry (our narrator) focus on one type of monster and are basically trying to deal with a massive population of them and figure out where they came from.And that's pretty much it.The plot lacked pizzazz, and I didn't feel like I was reading anything of importance at any given time.
I skimmed through most of the last half, so I technically didn't really finish it either.
I READ MOST OF IT THOUGH.
I have a lot to say, actually, but right now I have that wonderful feeling of total satisfaction that you get from finishing a book that had all the right stuff in it- plot, writing, characters, structure- the whole bloody, shocking, fantastic, gory enchilada.
What follows are the first three folios of Will's journals.The rest of the book is set in 1888, New England, with a twelve-year-old Will Henry as the protagonist and narrator, whose parents died a year ago in a fire and who, ever since, has lived with Pellinore Warthrop, a cold and mysterious doctor of even an more mysterious profession- monstrumology.
Still … does the artifice of our affection make our love any less real?” The main character is called Will Henry, and he is a child of around 12-14, he is orphaned as his father and mother died in a fire, and he was the taken by his father’s boss, Dr. Warthrop.
We don’t really get to know the doctor’s true intentions with Will Henry until much later in the book, but it was intriguing to say the least.
If you are thinking Will Henry is too young to be doing what he is doing as assistant to this sociopath/psychopath, the answer is yes, but what else can he do, when the man cannot even tolerate child-like behaviour.
Actual rating: 3.5 stars.A pseudo-Victorian novel set in 1888, The Monstrumologist has the same rather over-wrought style of that time period and is chock full of orphans, including our protagonist Will Henry.
But this is very much a product of the twenty first century, being much more direct and much more graphic than the standard Victorian novel.On full display is the mad scientist stereotype.
Both industrialists and environmentalists who refuse to believe various scientific studies, for example, and have dug into their positions.
Rather than actually think and truly negotiate, they merely refuse to believe each’s other’s positions and go nowhere and nothing changes.
Thrilling, well told, and very, very dark. I listened to this book on Audio, and found I could not stop listening. I was still tuned in at the wee hours of the morning. I was surprised at how very dark and grotesque some of the descriptions were -- especially considering that this is a young adult novel, but the literary quality is so strong, it doesn’t detract from it. It felt like something Poe might write if he lived today.
شخصیت مورد علاقه ام پلینور وارثروپ بود چونکه نویسنده علم رو در غالب اون مبرا از گناه دونست، اشتباه با گناه فرق داره، و در عین حال خیلی برام دوست داشتنی بود و با اینکه خطا و اشتباهات مختص خودش رو داشت اما من که خیلی دوستش داشتم .
داستان اوایلش فلسفه جالبی رو در پیش گرفته بود اما به مرور غرق در داستان و کمرنگ و کمرنگ تر شد و شاید در کنار نبود هیچ شخصیت زن خاصی، به جز اون پیرزنه، در داستان این تنها ضعفی بود که من واقعا حسش کردم .

It was gruesome and kind of terrible in certain parts to read (it gets bloody and gory) and when you realize some of these characters are just terrible human beings you kind of despair, but it is exactly what you want in a horror book.
The doctor in this book honestly reminds me of the absent minded professor who definitely cares, but is trying to show that he does not.
I even felt for the dead girl who Will Henry and the doctor find at the beginning of this book because what happens to her body is disturbing.
Will Henry, the protagonist, is a 11/12 year old orphan, who has been brought in to be the slave to Dr. Warthrop.
Every character has their own narrative voice in my head, and those were my interpretation of theirs.I am reminded of another series for a younger audience, also in the horror genre, The Spook's Apprentice.
Tom Ward is also apprenticed at a young age to a much older, experienced man, but I actually think the Spook has kindness and character, Tom has more of a backbone, and the horror is actually more realistic, given the genre.
درنهایت سؤال من بعد از پایان این کتاب صریح در توصیفش از مرگ و کشتار و بالاتر از همه حقیقت انسان اینه کههیولایی، هیولاتر از انسان هم داریم؟کتاب شوکه کننده بود و خارق العاده:)
What it is, is one of the best horror novels I’ve ever read (and I’m including adult books here, too), genuinely scary, fascinatingly gross, and psychologically complex.Will Henry is the orphaned apprentice to Dr. Warthrop, a brilliant but emotionally distant scientist who studies monsters.
Will Henry and Dr. Warthrop’s relationship is dysfunctional at best, shades of father/son and mentor/apprentice but not quite living up to either, but at the same time they need each other, if only because no one else needs them.If you like horror novels, this is the one to read.
وحشت فسلفی!حتی از پنج می تونه شش یا هفت بگیره!کتابی که بیشترش رو در راه رفت و برگشت از سرکار خوندم و نزدیک بود چند بار ایستگاه پیاده شدنم رد بشه!کتابی که وقتی داشتم میخوندم یکی گفت چه با کیف میخونه و من انقدر هیجان داشتم گفتم ساکت ساکت فیلمش خیلی قشنگه!
فیلمش!
:-Dفکر کنم ویل هنری حقیقت محض رو می گفت وقتی میگفت دکتر، دکتر فلسفه است.
کلی حرف برای گفتن داره.
جوری که فکر آدم رو مشغول می کنه.نویسنده انقدر خوب توصیف کرده که قشنگ میشه داستان رو حس کرد.
انگار خود آدم اونجا حضور داره.
Yes, my dear child, monsters are real.  2.5 stars. This was a perfect Halloween pick. It's really too bad I didn't read Monstrumologist in one sitting. I probably would have appreciated it more if I had. The world was inventive and the tone was deliciously spooky, which I liked. But I had trouble picking the book back up after taking a break because it read on the slower side.
When he pushed Will Henry, I hated him, but I respected understand why he have to do it.So one of the reasons why The Monstrumologist is a great book is that it shows us that yes..
we are all monster.ReviewTash's review convinced me to make my own fangirl review for Warthrop-baby.The Monstrumologist is definitely one of the best books that I've ever read.
He's the kind of person who makes other people wants to punch him.The The Monstrumologist is the type of book that I wouldn't hesitate to recommend.
Here are the reason why you should buy a copy of this book and read it:The suspense is top-notch.The book has this thing called "character development".Pellinore Warthrop.
