https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/72872.Tulip_Fever
”Everything he sees speaks tulip to him. Comely women are tulips; their skirts are petals, swinging around the pollen-dusted stigmas of their legs.” Amsterdam in the 1630s was considered one of the richest cities in the world. Trade had been very good for the Dutch. Citizens were becoming very civilized with a growing interest in music and a need for art hanging in their homes. The painters of the city were kept busy with commissions as wealthy people not only wanted fine paintings on their wall
The painters of the city were kept busy with commissions as wealthy people not only wanted fine paintings on their walls, but also wished to immortalize themselves on canvas as well.
Cornelis is proud of Sophia and decides that a family portrait is in order.
Sophia, as beautiful as the most rare tulip, takes the chance that spring will always be in season and winter will never have the chance to make her lose her petals.
Burning Heart Tulip, so apt for our young Sophia.I watched the 2017 movie starring Alicia Vikander, Christoph Waltz, Holliday Grainger, and Judi Dench along with a host of other talented actors and actresses.
Others of her, with different titles and different painters, hang in the Dresden museum.
Deftly concealed to the naked eye, disguised below the rich textures and the bold actions of the painter, hides a somber undertone of mystery.
And long after the girl is gone, her painting still mesmerizes scholars and public alike.And somewhere in the future, an author will come along and, through imaginative prose, as rich in color as the paintings, will try and explain Sophia to the world who lived through the boom-and-bust of tulipmania.A great read!RECOMMENDEDPS.
Always an older man whose beautiful young wife is misunderstood, uninterested, bored by him...and it's *his* fault.
Then she meets a *handsome*young*artist* who unleashes her primal passions the way her old man can't, or won't, or doesn't want to.Oh poor poor little lady.
::eyeroll::Then we get the filmed version with that human blancmange Dane DeHaan as the Struggling Artist.
Why anyone would think that blah little boy was hot beggars my imagination.So the book got exactly the film it deserved.
A halfway decent story halfway to good in book or film, so be warned that you're using your eyeblinks for a pretty surface without a shred of substance.
Update Feb, 2017I first read this 5 years ago for book club and enjoyed it at that time.
I liked how the book was written, each short chapter starting with a "moral maxim" or a quote about art relevant to the chapter.
At times I felt where it was headed was predictable, but there were enough surprises to keep it interesting right to the end.This is an interesting review (http://mises.org/daily/3259) and it appears that a movie based on the book has been an on-again-off-again project since the early 2000's.
I read this for a Library book club. I must be getting old and cranky. I found the prose almost physically painful to read. The characters unsympathetic, the plot unbelievable. I kept thinking about how much time I had left before I die and why was I devoting my energies to finishing this.
My husband is Dutch, I've heard of the tulip-mania that hit Holland, I like historical fiction - all the arrows were pointing to a book with possibility.
Think instead of Boy meets Girl, Girl happens to be married to kindly older man, Boy and Girl fall into instant lust, Girl horribly betrays kindly husband, Boy behaves foolishly in every manner possible and on and on until we have a 17th century soap opera in full bloom (haha).
Surprisingly, the kindly old man benefits in the end and not from tulips, but from unexpected liberation of heart and spirit.
This book is not very good at all. I plan on leaving it in Singapore to increase my distance from it.
(Originally from 1999, it’s recently been adapted into a film.) Sophia, married off to an old merchant, falls in love with Jan van Loos, the painter who comes to do their portrait.
If Sophia and Jan are ever to be together, they’ll have to scrape together enough money to plot an elaborate escape.
The short chapters split between different perspectives (with Sophia’s the only first-person voice) make this a quick read.Favorite lines:“I see us as a painting.
The herring lying on my plate, its glistening, scored skin split open to reveal the flesh within; the parted lips of my roll.
The tulip speculation bubble is only an aside in what is basically a 17th century soap opera.
The time period offered so much potential, not just the tulip bulbs, but also an age of great Dutch artists, unfortunately none of it is explored in any substantive way.
In retrospect, save 2 chapters (one about a bulb grower and one about Jan's bulb trading, this novel could be transposed to almost any place/time.Perhaps the best thing I can say is that it reads quickly with its short chapters.
3.5 zvezdiceLista stvari koje su mi se dopale:- živi, nestvarni opisi zlatnog doba Amsterdama, tržnica, krčmi, pijaca, bogataških kuća, brodova, kanala, luka, esnafskih udruženja - razrađen, opširan i liričan stil pisanja koji je poput neuhvatljivog sna- karakterizacija, posebno sporedni likovi, jer su oni jedini prema kojima sam osetio ikakvu empatiju- bogato istraživanje koje je autorka očigledno obavila, i stvaranje slika, kao i kombinovanje stvarnih ličnosti sa fiktivnim likovima- način na koji uvodni citati poglavlja odlično prate radnju- estetika na visokom i zavidnom nivou
Radnja priče smeštena je u Holandiju u vrijeme kad su se ljudi bogatili ili bankrotirali investirajući u lukovice, tada izuzetno egzotičnog cvijeta, lale.
Njihov brak je ugovoren i kao takav je miran i jednoličan sve dok Kornelis ne odluči da obraduje Sofiju njihovim zajedničkim portretom, a naručuje ga od mladog slikara Jana Van Losa.
Tu dolazi do pitanja, ali i do odgovora, koliko hrabra i luda može biti žena kad voli?Davno sam pročitala od Deborah knjigu Hotel Marigold i uživala sam čitajući je, ali Doba lala me oduševila, vrlo brzo me uvukla u mračnu priču izdaje, ljubavi, umjetnosti, mržnje i ludila.
1. Pick a fascinating time-period2. Pick an interesting subject (flemish painters and the famous dutch tulip bulb speculation)3. Only write what sounds like a bare-bones first draft.4. Don't develop any character5. Stereotypes by the bucket6. Instalove-for-the-ages : married and conservative woman accepts to commit adultery after literally one sentence of dialogue7.???8. PROFIT
This is one of my favorite reads, I read it a few times now. Set in the 1600's this story revolves around the Tulip mania that went on(something I never knew about) during that time. An added bonus for me was that Deborah Moggach wrote the screenplay for Pride and Prejudice(the Keira Knightley version which is another favorite).
Книгата е елементарна и наивна, но това може да се очаква от книга, силно препоръчвана от Христо Блажев.Плоски образи, объркан сюжет, нелогични обрати.
На два пъти е използван един и същ подход - второстепенен герой, който досега само се е споменавал, се натрясква и обърква работата на основните герои.Тотално неясен край - не е хепиенд, няма поуки, добрите не печелят.Ако сте невинна девица и четете това на фенерче под одеалото - може би ще ви хареса .В противен случай не започвайте изобщо.Ако искате да разберете нещо за епохата прочетете "Момичето в с перли в косите".А най-лошото е, че другата седмица излиза филм по тая смотана книга.
Surprisingly enjoyable book with quite a few twists. I especially liked the Amsterdam setting in the 1600’s. Looking forward to the movie.
Няма по-лоша литература на този свят от история за изневяра, в която липсват 1) герои, които не са едноизмерни точки в черно пространство с имена окачени отгоре им, за да се различава еднородността им, 2) химия между "любовниците" и 3) какъвто и да е интерес в случващото се.Шейсет и осем глави за книга, която е едвам 280 страници, си е лошо от само себе си, но добавете към това (за някаква незнайна причина) смесване между разказване от първо лице и трето лице (въпреки, че стилът на разказване не се променя, и от трето лице пак вникваме в интимните мисли на героите), смесване между глави носещи имената на герои и такива, носещи имената на теми, и епиграфите присъстващи в началото на всяка глава, то се вижда защо "Треска за лалета" на Дебора Могак бързо се превръща в помия оприличаваща "Кутия за птици" на Джош Малерман с малоумното си оформление и спастично развитие на жалкото си подобие за сюжет.
While I suppose I would characterize this as a great beach read or an airplane novel, a book you can leave behind at your destination without guilt, what sets it apart is its writing.
This read like a novel full of real people in the flesh, choosing some really awful and foolish paths to travel, but then sometimes we all make really foolish decisions.About my only real criticism of this book is that I don't really understand how Sophia and Jan van Loos fall so quickly in love -- or was it merely lust on her part?
Um romance engraçado e levezinho, com capítulos pequeninos que se lêem num instante. Passado na Amesterdão do século XVII, conseguimos ficar a conhecer como era a vida e o dia a dia de uma família de comerciantes na Idade de Ouro da mais rica cidade europeia à data e tudo por causa de ... tulipas.A história de um amor proibido que foi já adaptado a filme e chegará às salas de cinema até ao final do ano.Gostei muito e recomendo!
В треската за лалета любовта търси своя шанс: http://knigolandia.info/book-review/t...В началото не бях впечатлен особено от книгата – Могак развива обичайната за този тип романи скрита и страстна любовна история, като по аналогия с тон други книги очаквах да я смрачи със заговор за убийството на съпруга, все пак той е застанал като канара пред щастието на двамата млади, които в споделения си грях откриват щастието.
Съпругът става жертва на собствената си доверчивост и родителския си порив, а под покрива на дома му лъжите се трупат една след друга.CIELA Bookshttp://knigolandia.info/book-review/t...
Cornelius, a well-to-do merchant in late middle-age, has married the young and beautiful Sophia.
The Netherlands is in the midst of a financial bubble as people from every walk of life speculate crazily on tulip bulbs, a mania that blossomed wildly for a while before the inevitable crash that ruined many.Sophia is content, but then she meets Jan van Loos when he comes to paint their portraits and .
. it’s an old story: love triangle between an old husband, young wife, and a young man without means.
Jan sits there, thinking about love.
For a man who devotes his life to beauty he hasn’t been fussy.
Oh dear, what a disappointing read!Tulip Fever tells the tale of Sophia, a young woman in 17th century Amsterdam, married to a much older man.
Sophia’s wealthy husband, Cornelis, commissions a young painter, Jan, to paint a portrait of him and his wife.
Sophia and Jan develop an intense attraction, which leads to a torrid affair.Unfortunately, I did not enjoy Tulip Fever.
I did not connect with Sophia and Jan’s relationship, as the author does not explore the attraction between them in any detail.
The lack of substance behind their relationship left me unsympathetic to their affair and worse, I began to dislike them as characters.
A quick, easy read about a doomed love affair that begs to be reviewed using phrases like "torrid affair" or "grand deception." Also, it has a "Wings Of A Dove" vibe- it is unbelievable what lengths these characters will go to in order to get what they want!
I began reading this book with an intention to learn something new about the story of this beautiful flowers.
Sophia is resigned to her fate and to life with way too older man then her, until the day Jan crossed the threshold of their house.
Despite the fact that they are not the main characters, their story is more touching and true than Sophia and Jan’s.
We don’t learn much about the tulips.
How Jan became one of the biggest bulb retailers - it does happen amazingly fast and without much of explanation.
Аристократка. Омъжена за друг. Влюбена в художник, който ѝ рисува портрет...Мисля, че трябваше да се сетя още докато четях анотацията как ще завърши. Трябваше да се досетя, че ще имам чувството, че препрочитам "Най-красивата жена във Флоренция" на Алиса Паломбо.Вярно, че Дебора Могак разви малко по-различно сюжета и София постъпи малко по-различно от Симонета (може би защото втората си нямаше вярна прислужница), но все пак оставам с горчив вкус от тази книга.Може би ще изгледам и филма, но дълбоко се съмнявам, че искам да потретя този сюжет.
(There's sex and love in the book -- just no actual bodice-ripping or silly over-the-top romance.)Moggach paints a convincing and resonant portrait of a world poised between religion and secularism, tradition and trade, city and globe.
Like the Dutch still lives and portraits from the 17th century (the time period of this book), Moggach's novel delves into the relationship between body, sex, mortality, spirit, and art.
I also really appreciate Moggach's attention to female characters' desire for control over their lives, their circumscribed agency and mobility, and finally the way that patriarchal and religious ideologies shape their view of themselves.An absolutely pleasurable read.
This book is the ultimate companion for anyone who visits Amsterdam and plans on spending all their time in the Rijksmuseum (which is easily done - it's a huge museum).I also enjoyed how quickly the story began and how promptly the reader is thrown into a web of lies, scandal and lust all told in very beautiful prose.
Despite liking the paintings and enjoying every other book of Moggach's that I've read (and so coming to this optimistically) this left me cold.
I liked Cornelis, Maria and Willem, but Sophia and Jan left me at first bemused and then rather repelled.
Their love story came out of nowhere; there was no insight into their motivations and their love affair felt sleazy - which is odd because the love between Willem and Maria felt real indeed.
A few plots twists in the end made it feel like a morality play of sorts.
No recommended even if you like Dutch painters.
If you liked "Girl with a Pearl Earing" You will like this tale. Set in 17th Century Amsterdam, a city in the grip of tulip mania - it's a story of love, romance, money & deception and the art of painterly intrigue & reckless gambles. A pacy plat with twists and turns written well Moggach keeps the tension building till the sad, funny and tragic end. Illustrated with paintings from Vermeer, Maes, de Hooch, Steen, Terborch, van Rijin, and others in the dutch style.
I found this book quite unsatisfactory. It is a gripping tale of complicated affairs and webs of deceit but it lacked character development and I found the fact that the chapters switched between first and third person quite unsettling. It is one of those novels where you're not quite sure who you should be rooting for. Easy to read but difficult to love.
