https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/165358.Wish_You_Were_Here
I started reading the Mrs. Murphy series years ago before I had kids and life got incredi-busy.
The Mrs. Murphy series was right near the top of the list!
There are 26 books in the series.
Harry tries to keep calm, enjoying the company of her fur babies -- Mrs. Murphy (a tiger striped tabby) and Tee Tucker (a Welsh Corgi).
Harry immediately starts a bit of amateur sleuthing to ferret out the killer's identity.
The characters are engaging and definitely give a peek into affluent, small town southern life.
Mrs. Murphy and Tee Tucker are main characters just as much as Harry.
Virginia Beach Public Library had it as one of the Staff Picks on their e-book collections, so I thought, why not?
Most of the books in this series take place in Crozet, Virginia (which also intrigued me, since I go by Crozet every time I go see my family in Ohio and West Virginia).
This first book in the series I found a little crude at first (a lot of unnecessary swearing), but it gets better throughout the story.
Another thing that seems odd at first is that the animals talk to each other.
Sounds kind of childish, but these animals don't have childish thoughts.
Rita Mae Brown's 'Mrs. Murphy' series has been on my radar for a long time but it hasn't been until now that I borrowed the first title from my library.
Fortunately there are well over 20 books in the series and I look forward to reading each one chronologically.
A postmistress with a Welsh Corgi and tiger cat are the stars of the series.
It has very charming and amusing banter and actions between the dog and cat who are opinionated about humans but love their owner/companion despite the flaws from which all human suffer.
I recommend this to people who love cozies, dogs and cats.
There were several things however that I didn't like about the book:1.
The very first thing that was very annoying to me in the beginning was all the characters thrown in the first chapters so soon.
Sadly it fell short on that aspect.My favorite character was Tucker the Welsh Corgi.
He was so cute ( I am just a huge dog lover!).
Since I do like the concept of Mrs. Murphy the cat, and Tucker the dog, solving mysteries, I will be reading more books in the series.
I have read that the books after this first one get better.
Part of this is that I've never read cozy mysteries so I now know I am super not a fan.
But also, the characters were so vapid and weak that I found myself rushing to the sections where the corgi and his cat friend solve the mystery, which is probably not how the book was supposed to be read.
Also, was super not a fan of the weird casual racism in certain parts of the book, or the general bodyshaming comments that played an oddly significant role throughout (which, of course, was only targeted at women).
This book introduces the Mrs Murphy mystery series.
Mrs Murphy is a tiger cat, whose “mommy” is Harry.
Along with her Welsh corgi companion, Tee Tucker, the animals help Harry find the killer.
When it comes to the central murder mystery, there really are very few clues other than the postcards and the use of cyanide.
As if anthropomorphizing the animals weren’t enough, Brown also goes off on tangents about the environment, politics, feminism, racism, etc.
And some of these tangents are voiced by the animals.
I needed something light and fluffy and fun to read and, most importantly, something that would be easy to pick back up were I to suddenly 'calve.' (Love you Judy!) Wish You Were Here takes place is beautiful, tranquil Crozet, VA (not too terribly far from where I am typing this review) who's tranquility is shattered by a string of murders.
The Postmistress (and Smith graduate) Harry Haristeen begins to get clues to who might be murdered next by intercepting postcards sent from exotic locales with the greeting, 'wish you were here.' With the help of her cat Mrs. Murphy and her Corgi Tee Tucker, she gets involved...It's not exactly Shakespeare, but it's a good, fun read.
This was such a cute start of a hopefully, really fun series.
After I got over all the different names of the characters, the story just took off and it was a fun ride.
I loved the dialogue and wit of all the pets.
I could picture our cats doing some of the same things and saying to myself, "So that's why they do that" several times.
I kind of figured out who the killer was, but only because I've read a lot of books, and it was just a natural guess based on that.
It was still fun to see how everything came together and why.
The animals can communicate with each other but are unable to "talk" to Harry so have to try to discover other ways to help her solve the mystery of the murders in Crozet.
The animals discover a lot about the murder and try to help Harry, but their main goal is to protect her from the murderer because they love her so much.
Harry with the help of the Deputy Sheriff identifies the murderer and helps to bring an end to the killings, risking her own life but rescued by her loving animals and her own wit and cunning.
This is largely due to expectations of tone - when a cat and dog are trying to solve crimes, I would expect a fairly light read.
The characters are largely unlikeable, the main character's divorce drags down both the speed of the narrative and the overall mood, and the animals spend most of the time philosophizing about the horrors of the human condition as regards nature, family, and the mentally ill.
If you're expecting a light tone, try another series.
However, as there are many people who enjoy these books, it's definitely worth a try.
This book has a lot of what on occasion has been missing from this series - an interesting plot, good interaction between all characters (both 2 & 4 legged) along with a story we care about.
Every piece & step along the way is done in a way that when done right is what makes this series as enjoyable as it has been through the years.
It's just a shame there haven't been as many hits as there have been misses since this very smart debut from 22 years ago.
I finally got around to reading this book, it's been in my TBR pile for a while and I'm not quite sure where to start - I think this is actually a fairly decent start to a series.
Oh and the animals can speak, think and understand each other (and the humans - though the humans can't understand them) - this is not something I've seen in other stories - I liked it.
What I'm feeling is a whole lot of mixed feelings for the characters (good thing - I think), who were all like people you could know in your life.
MausetotEine beschauliche Kleinstadt in Virginia, wo jeder noch seinen Nachbarn kennt und das Verbrechen lediglich Erzählungen aus den Medien sind, ist das Zuhause der Postlerin Mary Minor Harristeen, die nur Harry gerufen wird.
Mit viel Spürsinn machen sich Harry, Mrs. Murphy und Tee Tucker daran, ihre eigenen Ermittlungen aufzunehmen.Ein richtig schöner Krimi, dem es weder an Spannung noch an Humor fehlt.
Sehr gut haben mir auch die Einblicke in die Konversation und Gedankenwelt von Mrs. Murphy, Tee Tucker und der dicken Katze Pewster gefallen.
Mich konnten Mrs. Murphy, Tucker und Harry völlig überzeugen und ich freue mich schon auf den nächsten Teil.
I myself have 2 cats and 1 dog and I could relate to Harry seeing her animals do things and having no real clue what they meant.
I somehow feel really sad when animals die, even in fiction books.What I did not like was that in the first chapter, you get to meet all the characters at once.
If there had been multiple hints dropped towards Harry for her to feel like she was the next on the list because she 'snoops around', it would have given more action and tense.All in all a good book!
This is the first book in the "Mrs. Murphy" series.
It is not exactly what I thought it was going to be.
I was expecting a cozy mystery featuring a cat, Mrs. Murphy.
Mostly this is true.
There are two sets of characters: people and animals.
The animals have conversations just as people do and are critical to solving the crime.
While it is 98% a cozy mystery, there is some bite to this book with regular cuss words sprinkled throughout.
This is an extremely popular series, but I wasn't too fond of the characters or the plot.
Disappointed....I like this series but didn't enjoy the first book as much as others. Comparatively, the author lacked the twists and character development that were present in books 2 and 3. The story does give some character background not present later but the needed background and depth of character is contained without boredom to the reader in the books that follow. As far as the mystery went, I was able to figure out the culprit early in the reading. I recommend this series...but would suggest starting with the second book.
I honestly can't decide if I want to continue with this series. I'm not a prude, I'm a high school librarian for crying out loud, but the crassness of the language in this book is very out of character for the setting that is portrayed. It just doesn't mesh for me nor does it make it a pleasant cozy read. It became better in the second part of the book but I wondered if the author had a "curse word" quota she was trying to fill in the first 25 pages of the book.
This is a very cute book, and enjoyed reading it. (I wasn't sure when it started with a cast of characters... I hate feeling like I have to do my homework before reading a book.) The interactions between the pets especially amuses me.Full review is here.
This story was absolutely delightful. A fun little mystery with lots of colorful and interesting characters, and part of the tale is told by a couple of cats and a wee Corgi. Very relaxing, and thoroughly enjoyable in every way.
I read this book for the 2018 Read Harder Challenge - Task 21: A mystery by a person of color or LGBTQ+ author. It was super bizarre when I realized the animals were the ones speaking at times! it was fun and lighthearted, but not a series I plan to return to.
A fun ride!
This is a great series if you like animals involved with the story. Mrs Murphy and Tee Tucker are great. Pewter is fun to, I think her sister might live at my house.

This book really was not good. It was "written by a cat" and honestly, with the writing and sudden topic shifts, it probably was written by Brown's cat. I won't be reading another one of these. It was mildly enjoyable... in the guilty-pleasure realm but also in the I'm-so-ready-for-this-to-be-over realm. It was a cutesy bad read.
Wish You Were Here is the first Mrs. Murphy mystery and leads to a long series of murder mystery's solved by Mrs. Murphy the cat and Tucker the Corgi and all of their cat and dog friends in the town of Crozet VA. with the help of their 'Mom' Mary Minor Haristeen. better known as Harry the Postmistress.When people in the town begin to receive postcards with pictures of grave stones and are then found dead, Mrs. Murphy is soon on the prowl.
Kind of a hoot! Perfect holiday break reading.
Good book. Nice mystery and I was clueless who the murderer was. I enjoyed the animals talking to each other, and trying to help their owners solve the crimes. :)
Crozet, Virginia
Fun cute cozy mystery
I really enjoyed this book. So many of the social issues reminded me of the era. Man, I can't believe people were / are like that. The criminal was surprising at the end. I thought it was someone else. Overall. Very enjoyable book!
