https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2832909-an-echo-in-the-bone
TOP TEN REASONS WHY THE OUTLANDER SERIES IS BETTER THAN THE TWILIGHT SERIES10.
When the hero has to rescue the heroine, he doesn't merely have to run at lightning speed across the parking lot.
He actually has to travel halfway across the world, kill a few dozen villains, and blow up a few buildings.8.
But that doesn't matter because just as often the heroine can rescue her own damn self.7.
Pirates are WAY better than vampires.6.
The creepy, obsessive dude is an actual villain and not the hero of the story.5.
People actually have sex, and lots of it.
I am a devout DG/Outlander fan, so of course I read Echo in the Bone as fast as I could get my mitts on it...and it left me sorely disappointed!I actually skipped pages!
I mean I really don't appreciate being led on for 2/3 of a book and then have four different surprise endings.Some other smaller points:-felt choppy-dragged at points and then skipped over more interesting points-not enough Jamie and Claire!!!
See, as silly as it sounds, I became emotionally invested in the characters and stories of Jamie and Claire, and rightly so, a good book should make you care about its characters.
Anyhoo, I'm done and I can take my time with the next audio =) I didn't like this book as much as the other ones and it didn't even make my favorites list!
Oh well =(I don't like that the family is all broken up and in different places and of course Bree, Roger and the kids are back in the real time world.
I must have missed the explanation at the beginning because Bree and Roger are able to read letters from Claire and Jamie.
Oh, there was a book though that was written by Jamie, gave me a little tear in my eye when Roger read it.

I sort of wondered when I started this book if I was going into Outlander overload and that I might tire of it seeing as I have read 6 of the books in the space of 2 months or so.No, this book was wonderful, for the most part.
We meet the characters from the previous books.
Of course, Jamie and Claire are still my favourites.
I have read some reviews that say the last part of the book is somewhat rushed and ended abruptly.
Of course, its easy for me to say that as I can dive straight into Book 8.
Ian, love him too.
”I canna thank of ye dead, Claire.
Which this wasn't, of course; I thought it was quite good.The first couple hundred pages are admittedly a little slow.
We get a lot of POV from Lord John and 19-yr-old William, and there is some crossover from the LJ spin-off series, which I think may be confusing for people who haven't read those books.
I like John and William very much, but in this series I really want to read about Jamie and Claire and fortunately the book soon begins to focus more on them.The last hundred pages are riveting and really quite shocking.
The stop-and-start, going-into-multiple-directions formula could only go so far.-	Claire boinked Lord John after Jamie’s death & the subsequent MOC.
Or @ least, keep them in separate sections instead of sneaking them in-between Jamie, Ian, Claire, Rog & Bree’s perilous adventures.
@$$-kicking heroine that she is, Claire got the biggest b@ll$ when it comes to protecting Jamie.
I wouldn’t have minded @ all if DG had included more of his scenes w/ Jamie than the dull Lord John & Willie’s encounters.-	Tom Christie returned, much to Claire’s discomfort ‘cuz he still carried a flaming torch for her.-	DG’s wonderful dialogues.
You'd never know that from this book where we jump between Jamie and Claire, Roger and Brianna, Lord John, William, and Denny and Rachael Hunter.
She has created a story in which I am invested both in time--both in reading time alone and in the number of years this series has been part of my life--and in money--I own the books in hardcover, trade paperback and the audio books.
I should have much preferred the errors be caught and corrected in the first place.I shall continue with the series as these characters are now part of my life and I really want to know where the story goes.
I wish she would write faster than one new book every four years in the Outlander series, but whatcha gonna do.
Writing: still draws you into the characters' lives.
They are so human, so loving, so flawed yet continuously striving.Characters: this book has four main plots (yes, four).
Three of the four plots threads end with characters in terrible danger or a major unresolved issue.
In a book that's 800 pages long, it's not like she worries much about editing.
The cliffhangers are ridiculous when we will probably have to wait another 4 years to see them resolved.
Diana Gabaldon needs to finish this series.
In fact, she needed to finish it in this book:If she is so crazy about Lord John, keep writing those books about him.
Personally, he bores me, and I skipped over those sections.
And there's lots of other material that repeats or echoes stuff in previous, better books.There are too many points of view and too much skipping from place to place.
But she yielded--to her publishers, her agent, her fans, whoever and as a result we have this mess of a book.Sad, really.
Mostly because I just want to finish this series!I definitely dived into An Echo in the Bone without expectations.
We get Claire, Jamie, Brianna, Roger, Ian, John, William, and so much more!
This made me so happy because I was kind of getting sick of reading from Claire's POV.
Unfortunately, I was kind of getting annoyed with Brianna's POV because it was like reading from Claire's...There is adventure in here too.
Plus Claire and Jamie also find trouble..
They always do.The one POV I loved was probably from William.
Ugh, they were adorable!Overall, I liked the book but I still found it boring and super long.
Le pongo tres a regañadientes... Me ha sobrado mucho rollo bélico y médico que no hacía sino ralentizar la narración. Diana se documenta, vale, pero no veo necesario tanto detalle en cosas que no aportan nada. Luego llega a los últimos capítulos, se fuma un porro y mete el acelerador, además de hacer que algunos personajes actúen de forma más que rara. Si lo leéis y os empieza a parecer un rollo, hacedme caso y pasad páginas cuando le dé por describir cómo operar una almorrana.
I love Jamie (to an embarrasing extent), Claire and the whole cast of random modern and 18th C.
The author has another series of books based on a minor character from this series.
This is the first time in the Outlander series that I felt lost because I hadn't read the Lord John series.
More than annoying.There were a few other things that annoyed me (too much war/battle details - yawn, THE ENDING WAS CRAZY) but that I think will bother me less upon a second reading.Yes, I read these books multiple times.
Did I mention that I love Jamie?
After several thousand pages of build-up, the Revolutionary War is finally here — and with it, the excitement of the early Outlander novels returns.
No offense to the residents of Fraser's Ridge, but it's a lot more fun to see Jamie and Claire interacting with Benedict Arnold than Hiram Crombie.
I can't help but feel that the Frasers are back in their element; a life of quiet domesticity may just not be their thing.What else can I say about Echo?
Several characters and storylines from the early books (and even the Lord John series) return, but several new, very likeable characters are introduced as well.
And this is it for me and the Outlander series.There is a section in the Outlandish Companion where Diana talks about authors who do so much research and then make their readers "pay" for it.
Meaning, if the author read about it, she's going to put it in the book, regardless of how much it contributes to the actual story.
If I'm still alive when the last book in the series comes out, I'll go to Borders and see how it ended, but I won't pay with my money or my time any more.
Sorry, Diana, but the characters are tired, there are many new characters I found hard to keep track of, and the few that reappeared seem to come back suddenly then leave just as quickly, all so that loose end could be tied up.
The only parts I read word for word were Brianna and Roger and most of the last 1/4 of the book b/c I was told, "Read the last 100 pages." The action picked up quite a bit during the last 1/4 but then stopped suddenly like I hit a wall.
There are many loose ends that are tied up but just as many that are left untied.
I find myself now thankful that there's only one book left in this series.
While I don't regret the time spent on Echo and will certainly read the Outlander conclusion when it's available in 4?
years, I'm ready to let this series go.Historical detail was as always fascinating and the characters are still for the most part engaging and moving, but this volume interweaved way too many story lines and ended up feeling disjointed.
Add in a few plot "twists" which are starting to feel cliched and overused (more kidnapping!
more time travelers!) and it just feels like it's past time to move on.
4.5 ★'sThere's really no way to do a review without spoilers so I'm just going to write down some thoughts.Wow...I really can't believe I'm finally at this point - being all caught up with the Outlander books.
I feel for the most part that she does a good job catching you back up because I'm not sure I could read these all again...not for a while!Sooo...some thoughts on the book: I LOVE Jamie and Claire and I can't imagine that ever changing.
I'm just glad that the things I thought were spoilers were addressed in this book...that would have been terrible to be left hanging from those events!
LOVED Outlander, Dragonfly in Amber and Voyager, but this book was *Simply Horrible*.
Plodding, too much description of certain events that are of zero importance to the overall plot (usually medical), the rehash of old themes and introduction of new, just plain ridiculous ones made this almost painful to read.
Thank goodness I took it out from the library and didn't waste my money or shelf space on it.
no thanks.
Sadly, I don't think I'll be reading any more of them because it will further taint the magic that Outlander once was.
Gabaldon tries, though: larger-than-life characters (who are improbably attracted to one another, even when unwashed and bleeding, as frequently happens, and have impressively good sex amidst the direst of circumstances); oodles of historical detail; plenty of accents, wee bits o'Gaelic (and sometimes Mohawk) to vary the dialog, and a somewhat predictable OH NO SOMETHING TERRIBLE'S HAPPENED TO JAMIE PHEW HE'S OK OH NO SOMETHING TERRIBLE'S HAPPENED TO CLAIRE...
All in a day's work for Jamie, Claire and their hardy extended family.Meanwhile, on the other side of the time divide, Brianna & Co.'s life promises for about five minutes to be almost mundane, until actual and would-be time travelers start turning up.
Gabaldon leaves lots of loose ends dangling for the next book to solve, and I am quite looking forward to the next instalment.
Which I didn't really love, but I can respect her making a play to get more readers for those books.The book is choppier than some of her previous ones, and I believe that if I read it again I'll skip all of the Bree and Roger bits to get to more Claire and Jamie (like how you skip all of the Frodo and Sam scenes in The Two Towers), at least for the first half of the book.
At a certain point time travel loses its mystique when you've got every single character doing it at some point in the series!
I think I just have to come to terms with the fact that DG will never again write a book with as much narrative tension as she did with Voyager (still my favorite of the series so far).There's still some bloat here, which accounts for why I was able to put it down for so long without feeling a real need to pick it back up again.
I would have liked more lingering on some of that stuff, which was really emotional.The stage is set for an interesting eighth book, though, and my interest in this series has definitely been re-engaged.
I'm not that fond of Lord John as a major character and that's why I didn't read the books to begin with and consider it dirty pool to muck up Jamie and Claire's story with Lord John’s, particularly that little plot twist at the end.
Cut a good chunk of the first 2/3 of the book out and flesh out the last and keep it moving a bit more instead of ending it as she did with those maddening cliff-hangers this would be a solid five star read.
It feels like I have a bad copy that someone snatched the last 100 pages out of.April 4, 2014, after my reread in preparation for the next book's release: I just finished a reread of this (on audiobook, read by the fabulous Davina Porter), and I don't know if it's because my I already knew the terriblehorriblenogoodverybad cliffhangers were coming or if I'm more at peace with the missing pages because I know I'll be reading the next book in a matter of weeks now (because that sounds better than months), but this reread was definitely less painful and much more enjoyable.In fact, I changed my original rating of 4 stars to 5 stars.That's not to say I didn't exclaim, "Fucking book!" when it ended.
En mi reader superaba las 1700 páginas, y creo que bienmente puedo decir que le sobraban 500, aquellos interminables capítulos de Lord John y William, que se me han hecho soporíferos.Éste libro empieza donde acabó "Viento y Ceniza".
A ellos también les envolverán una serie de problemas, la aparición de un personaje que no esperabas, y cierto giro al final de su trama, que te dejará esperando con ansias el siguiente libro.En cuanto al resto de personajes, como digo, los capítulos de Lord John y William un rollo, no avanzas mucho en ellos salvo al final de la trama, en que todo se complica.
I wondered what sort of man - or woman, perhaps? - had lain here, leaving no more than an echo of their bones, so much more fragile than the enduring rocks that sheltered them.Buddy read with my friend, NegineLast book of my re-read of the  Outlander  series before.... Written in My Own Heart's Blood
En viento y ceniza hay una parte donde Jamie recuerda su tiempo en Francia, en la Universite. Cuando con amigos se dirige a beber a una taberna, se consigue con una adivina que lee el futuro en la mano. De nombre Dubois.   —Neuf —dijo ella, golpeándole la palma de la mano en distintos sitios al azar—. Tienes un nueve en la mano. Y la muerte —añadió en tono despreocupado—. Morirás nueve veces antes de descansar en tu tumba.  Esto para recordarles que Jamie no muere sino nueve veces antes de realm
En este libro nos conseguimos con una novedad en cuanto a la narración, como es muy bien visto: Claire tiene el punto de vista principal en la historia desde el primer libro, mientras otros se han ido añadiendo.
En Ecos del pasado tenemos puntos de vista de Claire, Jamie, Roger, Brianna, Lord John Grey, William, Ian… hasta Rachell Hunter.
Y la Rachel por Dios, que, si antes envidiaba a Claire por tener a Frank y luego Jamie, ahora es ella quien logra tener la atención de tres chicos.
I felt like I was missing some references and nuances to certain characters because I haven't read the Lord John books yet.
I loved reading Echo and thinking back to what Jamie and Claire were like in Outlander and even young Ian in earlier books.
I know them and love them and can't wait to see what happens next.Re-read Update (2/21/2011): I just finished re-reading the entire Outlander series and all of the Lord John books/novellas.
What did still bother me on my re-read was the whole Lord John-Claire-Jamie development.
so far, as there will be another book out in the series later this year.
and keep it peaked, is amazing in itself.Lastly, I just want to mention the narrator of these audio books.
Even the audio books take a good bit of time.
I also realized that many times a narrator can either make or break an audio book for the reader.
Well, in this case, Devina Porter, the narrator of this series completely MADE the story come to life for me.
I highly recommend these audio books to anyone wishing to take on this series, but is wary due to it's mere length.
This book was definitely the hardest out of the series for me to get through.
Not because it was jarring to read but because I found a big chunk of the book the be incredibly boring and long winded.
It just didn’t draw me in and capture my attention like the others in the series did.
Don’t get me wrong, there are some great parts that I really loved and I thoroughly enjoyed where some parts of the story went.
But it just felt like this installment lacked some of the magic and oomph of the previous books in the series!
This took me forever to read! I almost gave up, the first half of the book is mostly about William and parts were boring. I wanted more Jamie and Claire!I'm glad I stuck with it, the second half was great! I look forward to the next one.
