https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18952.The_Rediscovery_of_Man
The second thing I believe is remarcable about the collection is how these stories than span 15000 years of our future and several decades of the author’s career are in fact episodes of a unitary and coherent vision – The Instrumentality of Man, a society defined and structured according to the different stages of scientific discovery.
The future history included in this collection is not complete (it looks like I need to read also the Nostrilia books), but it is arranged chronologically, allowing the reader to follow the expansion of our race to the stars and the changes incurred by the new possibilities offered by science.
(1959)The Crime and the Glory of Commander Suzdal (1964)The Dead Lady of Clown Town (1964)Under Old Earth (1966)Mother Hitton's Littul Kittons (1961)Alpha Ralpha Boulevard (1961)The Ballad of Lost C'mell (1962)A Planet Named Shayol (1961) Just by the titles you can get a sense of his unique and playful mind, and the stories themselves can be strange, haunting, humorous, and lyrical by turn.
Besides the strange title, it also features the best character names ever, Prince Lovaduck (there is an explanation of course).“The Crime and the Glory of Commander Suzdal” tells the tragic tale of a brave and well-meaning space captain who comes to the aid of a rescue call from the planet Arachosia, which turns out to be a trap designed to lure humans into the clutches of a bizarre all-male society.
I'm gonna hit my bongo drum, Sun-man. Anyone up for a laminated mouse brain? I love it. So many great ideas packed into these short stories, I feel as giddy as if I sent my frozen cat people back two million years in the past to fight off the tragic planet of men, men, and nothing but men.Really, people, this is some classic stuff. :)
Παρωχημένο, θα έλεγα, με κάποιες ενδιαφέρουσες ιδέες. Ο χρόνος δεν του φέρθηκε πολύ καλά. Συμβαίνει κι αυτό, συχνότερα από όσο θέλουμε να παραδεχτούμε.
I was hooked.Then I forgot about the whole thing for about ten years.So now, when I got the whole The Rediscovery of Man collection, I was reading it slowly and with great pleasure, which always accompanies me while going through good old classic science fiction stuff.
I would love reading something about Smith, suggestions are welcome here.My personal favs in this collection are:Scanners Live in Vain The Lady Who Sailed the Soul The Game of Rat and Dragon Golden the Ship Was---Oh!
(not everybody seems to like it)The Dead Lady of Clown TownMother Hitton's Littul Kittons (this was batshit crazy!!)and of course A Planet Named Shayol
Cordwainer Smith, pen name of Dr. Paul Linebarger, was at least fifty years ahead of his time. He was writing great, lyrical, thoughtful, modern stories before it was the cool thing to do. He isn't too well known currently because he was never successful at novel-length, but I guarantee that this book contains some of the best novelettes the field ever produced.
Cordwainer Smith is one of the most distinctive and idiosyncratic SF writers, along with Jack Vance, whose writing is totally unlike any other author. His far-future tales of The Instrumentality of Mankind are completely original, uniquely strange, richly imaginative, full of wonder, mythic in scope, layered with humor and emotion, and simply unforgettable. Do yourself a favor and read this underrated and overlooked masterwork.
NO ONE ELSE writes like this dude. His titles are great: "Mother Hitton's Littol Kittuns," "Alpha Ralpha Boulevard," "The Burning of the Brain," "Under Old Earth," "Golden the Ship Was- Oh! Oh! Oh!," "The Game of Rat and Dragon." Science fiction that draws on Chinese myth and a sense of immense, immovable age. Stories that make me feel whirling and small.
One usually expects a good, decisive ending to a SF short story but such was the sheer strangeness of his ideas, his poetical prose style and varied range of narrative techniques that I didn't mind too much.This collection contains about half the stories the author published pertaining to his vision of a future history of mankind.
In Smith's vision of our future, our civilization eventually collapses but from the ashes a new civilization emerges guided by the benign Instrumentality that strives to protect and nurture mankind towards it's ultimate state of being.There are many thematic threads running through this collection.
I only discovered Cordwainer Smith last year.
One of the stories in this book, 'The Dead Lady of Clown Town', is my favourite SF story ever; 'Under Old Earth' and 'Alpha Ralpha Boulevard' aren't far behind.Smith started writing in the 1920s but he remained extremely obscure until publishing 'Scanners Live in Vain' in 1950.
Most tales of the far future maintain the impression that they are imagined by writers who are living in the present: this is normal.But Smith's stories give the impression that they are realistic or historical fictions written from the future.
THE DEAD LADY OF CLOWN TOWN, SCANNERS LIVE IN VAIN!, THE LADY WHO SAILED THE SOUL, THE CRIME AND GLORY OF COMMANDER SUZDAL, GOLDEN THE SHIP WAS OH!
OH!, THE GAME OF RAT & DRAGON, QUEEN OF THE AFTERNOON These are the hallucinatory and strange titles to some of the strange and hallucinatory tales penned by Cordwainer Smith.
Stylistically weird (he apparently based much of his writing style on classical Chinese fiction like THE ROMANCE OF THE 3 KINGDOMS) and full of unique word coinages and ideas.
Girly-girls (A kind of gene-engineered geisha, frequently feline-based).
It's ten kinds of weird all right, which is one of the primary reasons I read SF.
These races are oppressed and shunned by ordinary humans and a group of god-like rulers known as the "Instrumentality." I think that Smith may have been, on some level, reflecting on the civil rights movements of the 1960s.
Reading these two stories feels like gazing upon a medieval tableau: nice to reflect on, but no dynamism.
If anyone would like an introduction to Smith, I'd say start with the short story, "Scanners Live in Vain" or read "Norstrilia," which is a novel.
("Norstrilia" was my introduction to Smith; it is great fun to read and without a doubt one of the great sf classics).
When I finished "The Rediscovery of Man," I felt like I had read an entire 20-novel future-history cycle; such is the totality and scope of this collection of interconnected short stories. The closest and most obvious comparison would be Asmiov's Foundation books, but I honestly believe that The Rediscovery of Man does the same thing better in the space of about 300 pages. The first story begins 4000 years in the future, and the stories proceed in chronological order from there. Mindblowing.
Originally published on my blog here in August 2001.In the fifties and sixties, Cordwainer Smith was one of the most original writers in the science fiction genre.
His stories include many undisputed classics - Scanners Live in Vain, The Game of Rat and Dragon, The Lady Who Sailed the Soul, The Dead Lady of Clown Town, for example - and introduced a level of psychological interest which was much greater than usual in a field generally considered fit only for the cheap pulp magazines.
Smith, on the other hand, is interested far more in social and psychological change, with technology being used only to illuminate his ideas.
I don't go in for short stories or mythical far future stuff to begin with.
So the premise is on some far away planet "femininity became carcinogenic" (!) and thanks to another sci-fi standby, a cold-hearted woman scientist, all the women transgendered into men.
I don't want to censor his writing or lessen the inspiration readers have taken from him, but it makes me sad that amidst the rave reviews I couldn't find one single reference or discussion online regarding his gender issues, let alone this virulent homophobia.
Scifi community, you're letting me down!
The stories vary greatly in style and tenor with some such as "The Crime and Glory of Commander Suzdal" being quite comical, while others are deeply disturbing ("Scanners Live In Vain", "A Planet Named Shayol").Parallels can be made to the scale of Dune and the hope for humanity's future of Foundation, but the beauty of Mr. Smith's stories is an attention to personal emotions and the individual scale that works in strange concert with the massive scope of the world building, both contrasting it and strengthening it.Even the introduction with its brief outline of the author's career was a fascinating read.
The universe of Cordwainer Smith started to fill out.
Space age, cold ingenuity of mankind, romance, eventual march of progress etc etc.And then 'The Dead Lady of Clown Town' knocked me out.
I didn't expect it to move me to tears, or make me empathise with real-world events.Taken all together, its an entire vast universe.
Some of the characters and stories may get resolved but there is an enormous sense of time marching on.
The history of mankind gets lots of holes and legends and no neat beginnings and no neat conclusions.
I preferred The Rediscovery of Man over the companion book The Instrumentality of Mankind. Both books are a collection of post-apocalypse short stories set in an interstellar empire ruled by the Lords of the Instrumentality. Though praised by SF legends including Iain M. Banks, Ursula K. Leguin, and Stephen Baxter, my overall experience was mediocre. Written with soft compassion and underlaid with brutal truth, standout stories were Scanners Live in Vain, The Game of Rat and Dragon, and The Ballad of Lost C'Mell.
And I think I recall seeing this in the hands of some of the sci-fi literati in my high school, so Cordwainer Smith had a kind of cachet in my mind.
The recent sci-fi books I’ve read have been story-driven and technology-driven while in this collection, I get more of an arc of the future.
The stories are roughly related, covering times from the far future to the much farther future as civilizations rise and fall, and technology is built.
Smith covered a lot of territory in these stories.
Great choice for those looking for sci-fi playing out over the millennia and touching on what it means to be human.
This is a most unusual and original body of work. I'd heard of Cordwainer Smith (pen name for Dr. Paul Linebarger), who wrote some of the most influential and yet obscure science fiction in existence. It is well worth the read. But it is unique, and not to everyone's taste. There are over a thousand reviews, so I will not add to that, other than to say that Dr. Linebarger is famous for literally creating the military doctrines of psychological warfare during WWII, and taught Far Eastern Studies at Johns Hopkins University. So --expect the unexpected.
The Habermans have their metabolism monitored and regulated by ‘scanners’ — volunteers who have also undergone the Haberman process, but retain their personalities — in order to make space travel possible.When the scanners hear that a way has been found to block ‘the pain of space’ and travel without using Habermans, they decide to assassinate the inventor of the new way of travel, in order to protect their monopoly position in controlling spaceflight, but one scanner rebels and attempts to save the inventor.The second story ‘The Lady Who Sailed The Soul’ is set a few years after the events of Scanners Live In Vain, and tells of an interstellar romance between a young woman, who wishes to become the pilot of a solar sail powered spaceship, and the older pilot of such a ship, who has returned to Earth from a colony planet after a forty year journey.Moving on a few thousand years, ‘The Game of Rat and Dragon’ finds human travel in outer space threatened by strange creatures known as the Dragons.
(His wife, Genevieve Linebarger, completed some of his unfinished stories from the notes he left.)The Rediscovery of Man contains Smith's entire output of published short SF stories, tracking the fall and rise of mankind from roughly 2000-17000 AD.
Reading Smith's "history" of his imaginary universe played a substantial role in developing my own interest in the history of the "real" world.All too much science fiction, like most modern entertainment, does not place great demands on the reader's attention and intelligence.
Kind of like the literary verson of Salvador Dali.
I love that kind of escape where you leave earth completely because anything remotely tying you to the world you know is completely gone and replaced with a completely new world.The stories are written as if Mr. Smith has an entire universe spanning thousands of years in his head and only a very small sampling of that universe finds its way to the stories.
Apparently he lost his notebook, leaving it in a restaurant, and then he died early so who knows what more he would/could have written.Comment Comment | Permalink
Čia reiktų tarti porą žodžių. Nuo pat pirmo pasakojimo buvo aišku, kad čia neeilinė mokslinės fantastikos knyga. Teko skaityt vėlesnių autorių, tokių kaip Iain M. Banks ar Dan Simmons, kurie nenusileidžia fantazijos platumu, bet turint omeny tai, kad pirmas šios knygos pasakojimas ("Scanners Live in Vain") parašytas 1950 m., tenka tiesiog atsistoti ir nukelti kepurę. Tiek gylio ir stiprumo mokslinėj fantastikoj tikrai reiktų gerai paieškoti. Paskutinis pasakojimas ("A Planet Named Shayol") puikiai vainikavo visą knygą ir poveikiu, keistumu, nuostabumu ir neįtikėtinumu niekuo nenusileidžia mano mėgstamiausiam mokslinės fantastikos autoriui maestro Philip'ui K. Dick'ui. Smarkiai rekomenduoju visiems mokslnės fantastikos entuziastams.
If you are looking for something to get your mind well and truly bent, try some Cordwainer Smith. All the stories in this collection are part of the 'Instrumentality' universe - Smith's science fantasy tableau that sprawls across space and time. The prose is very stylish. At times it puts me in mind of Franz Kafka, other times Phil Dick. Still other times Michael Moorcock…. Not to say that Smith is in any way derivative. His is a unique voice, so much so I fancy I could pick out a story by him if the credit was omitted.
Among the science fiction writers, Cordwainer Smith is quite unique. His style is poetic, yet surgical. His vision is clear, yet complex. His characters are serious, yet funny. His stories are about human condition and follies wrapped in a very science fictiony skin. If you are a science fiction fan, there is really no excuse to read these wonderful fables. If you are not, try these anyway, because Smith's stories are entertaining, thought-provoking, and, first of all, artistic.
I read the story 'The Game of Rat and Dragon' and I was so impressed with it that I sought out this book thinking that anyone who can write a story as fantastic as that one has got to be worth reading. Well, I liked some of the stories, some were ok, some I just could not be bothered with. If you haven't read 'The Game of Rat and Dragon' then buy this book just for that one.
These are timeless stories that don't seem dated at all. So many gems and all worthwhile. I had heard his name before, but never read any of his stories. Thankfully now rectified.
Humans have spread out to colonise the galaxy, in an empire called the Instrumentality of Mankind that seems to control most aspects of life, and has an underclass of humanoid people derived from Earth-animal stock.
Humans live for an allotted 400 years, although technology-wise they could keep going forever if allowed.
Technology moves on slowly and society changes little throughout the stories.
Humans gain a little more freedom, as do the animal underclass.
There was little description of the technology; the author was more interested in the society he had created which is not necessarily a bad thing but sometimes made it hard to understand what was going on.
Notes for now:Time scale: astonishing.
author thought about this a lot too obviously.Gender politics: so not new age.God stuff: rubbed me the wrong way.
Not because i did not agree with the sentiments, but because i rankle at depictions of godliness coming from inside humans Via Other!
No, such things come from inside both individual and masses of humans and Become greater.
i keep realizing that a different story i've been ruminating about came from the same book.-----I was watching Star Trek Voyager last night and wondering at the frequency with which the Enterprise runs into other lifeforms.
