https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7101.The_42nd_Parallel
Some minor characters whose point of view is never given crop up in the background, forming a kind of bridge between the characters."The Camera Eye" sections are written in 'stream of consciousness' and are an autobiographical Künstlerroman of Dos Passos, tracing the author's development from a child to a politically committed writer.
Camera Eye 50 arguably contains the most famous line of the trilogy, when Dos Passos states upon the executions of Sacco and Vanzetti: "all right we are two nations."The "Newsreels" consist of front page headlines and article fragments from the Chicago Tribune for The 42nd Parallel, the New York World for Nineteen Nineteen and The Big Money, as well as lyrics from popular songs.
Oh yes, a true testament of the almighty Law of Murphy, moving to a new city was bound to place things in my path toward the completion of volume number one of Dos Passo's ever-revered U.S.A. For a long stretch of time I was like, why have I not finished this?
Also, the ingenious effort to transform the lexicon Americana with puttogetherwords (such as, downattheheels, thunderstormy, furniturevarnish...!!) is a bittersweet nod to the confusion of the times, a possible fluidity in the birth of an American language, its newness & genuine novelty, & the awesome everexpanding spirit of revolution.The novel tells you the following: why have men and women done what they have done?
And he knows the ways of life inside out.“The only man that gets anything out of capitalism is a crook, and he gets to be a millionaire in short order…”The world of contrasts: success and failure, the poor and the rich, the unlucky many against the lucky few, or is history a battle of the honest and the unscrupulous?“Andrew Carnegie gave millions for peaceand libraries and scientific institutes and endowments and thriftwhenever he made a billion dollars he endowed an institution to promote universal peacealwaysexcept in time of war.”Men make money.
Money makes a man.
First volume: I'm not foolish claim to give a review on this famous work, which I have read with great pleasure, waiting to read the second volume.So I'll just copy on an edition published in 1958, the back cover: "This immense work that dominates the literary production of the decade" (published in 1930) writes the American critic John Brown.
John Dos Passos, in the 42nd parallel, invents a new novelistic genre.
Prodigious paintings of the early twentieth century in the U.S.A., he experience characters from all social classes, introduces news, vitriolic portraits of celebrities of the day, collages, lyrical texts.Thus arose the "inhuman comedy" of a collective world, where individual tragedies are based in the despair of an era, of a society.Lisbon Book-Fair 2015.
So despite the aforesaid reservations, here it goes: whatever Jack Keroauc was trying to do with On the Road was done twenty years earlier in a more elegant, interesting, engaging and just over-all better fashion by John Dos Passos with his U.S.A. Trilogy.The U.S.A. Trilogy is a work of historical fiction that takes place from the beginning of the 20th century to around 1930.
Like Doctorow, Dos Passos isn't concerned with telling the stories of specific individuals, but in using individual examples to give a sense of an overall whole.
مدار 42، رمان نخست از مجموعهی بزرگ ینگه دنیا در میان بیمها و امیدهای سپیدهدم قرن بیستم آغاز میگردد. موضوع رمان، کشور امریکاست که در قالب شخصیتهای برجستهی زمان، فرهنگ کوچه و بازار، برداشتهای ذهنی نویسندهای ناپیدا و کشش و کوشش جانانهی شخصیتهای داستان، سیر تحول منحصربهفردی را طی میکند. صناعت شگرفی که دوس پاسوس در نوشتن این رمان بهخرج داده است، سبب شد که ژان پل سارتر، فیلسوف شهیر فرانسوی، در خصوص او بگوید: «من دوس پاسوس را بزرگترین نویسندهی عصر حاضر میدانم.»
مدار 42، رمان نخست از مجموعه‌ی بزرگ ینگه دنیا در میان بیم‌ها و امیدهای سپیده‌دم قرن بیستم آغاز می‌گردد. موضوع رمان، کشور امریکاست که در قالب شخصیت‌های برجسته‌ی زمان، فرهنگ کوچه و بازار، برداشت‌های ذهنی نویسنده‌ای ناپیدا و کشش و کوشش جانانه‌ی شخصیت‌های داستان، سیر تحول منحصربه‌فردی را طی می‌کند. صناعت شگرفی که دوس پاسوس در نوشتن این رمان به‌خرج داده است، سبب شد که ژان پل سارتر، فیلسوف شهیر فرانسوی، در خصوص او بگوید: «من دوس پاسوس را بزرگ‌ترین نویسنده‌ی عصر حاضر می‌دانم.»
In my third year of Uni, I took this curse named Comparative Literature about the American Dream, during which we studied 3 novels that sure did not leave the same impression on me : 1) Amerika by Franz Kafka that I'd love to say I adored but...
hey, that book is so fucking weird, even for me (not to mention unfinished, which is a deal-breaker for me - I'm looking at you, Lucien Leuwen)2) The Financier by Theodore Dreiser that I...
What was that book about tell me?
I remember feeling enthralled, upset, involved in all these characters' destinies, swearing to myself that I would read the sequel one day.
I can only hope that my feelings will be intact.
In the 20th century, as cultural and aesthetic values shifted to favor more linear, romantic, cinematic storytelling, Dos Passos' vignettes, broad character range, and historical relevance faded into the background to be appreciated primarily by literary aficionados.
In The 42nd Parallel, Dos Passos is forthright with his abstractions; rather than condemn this work on that basis, it is probably best to read for yourself, consider the challenges to your aesthetic sensibilities and ask, "What is a novel really?" After all, many of us read with the intent to grow.I have always favored novels whose characters appear aimless, books whose characters appear to be in search of something, but they do not exactly know what that thing is.
3rd reading.
Dos Passos' characters chase, in myriad ways, their American Dreams, as the nation rapidly matures in its new identity as an urban, commercial, world power.
The book is imbued with a sense of history: Dos Passos and his characters know they are caught up in the fierce urgency of their times- America is going SOMEWHERE, and FAST...
I think USA is even better when the reader knows of certain historical outcomes that Dos Passos could only speculate about...I'm gonna go out on a limb: in considering the lives of Americans in the earliest decades of the 20th century, Hemingway and Fitzgerald were dilettantes.
Easy reading format, historical context, and I do like history, about the interesting early part of the century in of course, the USA.
Each chapter is titled with a character's name and each evolves, through their own eyes, and when paths cross, through others.
Supposedly the books can be read on their own, but I think you would always wonder what you missed.
Another item between chapters are bits of text from newsreels of the day.
Yet another item is the Camera Eye, which shows some activity that is going on with a person, but to me is out of context so doesn't add much to the story.
As Hemingway said to Dos Passos in a letter, after reading his USA trilogy:"Don’t let yourself slip and get any perfect characters in—no Stephen Daedeluses—remember it was Bloom and Mrs. Bloom saved Joyce . . . If you get a noble communist remember the bastard probably masturbates and is jallous as a cat. Keep them people, people, people, and don’t let them get to be symbols."(1932)
They all think similarly and use the word “and” so much that the reader never wants to see it again (examples can be furnished upon request, but it is easier to flip to any page and read it).
3. And I never want to see the word “and” again.To any reader out there seeking an American chronicle that captures multiple perspectives, understands diversity of experience, and gives voice to its people, read Studs Terkel.
One of the narrative devices Passos uses is Headlines from the time period and brief newspaper clippings, and about half way through the book I just started skipping them.
Brief synopsis: Passos uses a fragmented narrative to tell the story of several characters trying to make their way in early 1900's America.
"..reading Success Magazine, full of sick longing for the future...".
Everyone in this book is bent towards the future, almost obessively so.
Underneath the often stiff, Romantic tone, the narrative tricks, the empty plot, there is a picture of a hopeful America, a time in our country when seemingly anything was possible for everyone.
É, inegavelmente, uma obra riquíssima do ponto de vista descritivo a ponto de ser um romance fundamental para a reconstrução daquela época, todavia essa preocupação em retratar a história, rectius, o espírito de uma Nação pode nos dias de hoje apresentar-se como o ponto menos atractivo do livro na medida em que o recurso constante à colagem de manchetes e excertos noticiosos, discursos e até canções (no chamado "Noticiário"), utilização do fluxo de consciência (no "Olho da Câmara") bem como os diversos interlúdios com pequenos apontamentos biográficos de personalidades marcantes desta época (ex.

I can only say, from my own point of view, that no novel I read while in college stimulated me more, astounded me more and showed me what a thrilling inner life was there for anyone gifted enough to be a major American novelist.” – Norman Mailer on Dos Passos’s U.S.A. TrilogyDos Passos created a “whole new school of writing.” - Sinclair Lewis, on Dos Passos’s Manhattan TransferOne of the greatest pleasures of being a reader is not only discovering a hidden gem in a book, but finding a hidden gem in a new author…especially one that made you leery at first.
If you were to ask a literati in the 1940's what American authors would still be read in 2013, Dos Passos would have been mentioned in some amazing company: F. Scott Fitzgerald and Ernest Hemingway. But I had never read him. The closest I came was a science fiction classic,  Stand on Zanzibar , which used Dos Passos' techniques. I though pretty average, so was sort of lukewarm at the thought of pulling  The 42nd Parallel  off the shelf. So I was shocked when I dusted it off, and cracked open the
If you were to ask a literati in the 1940's what American authors would still be read in 2013, Dos Passos would have been mentioned in some amazing company: F.
Dos Passos' style is clean, crisp, American prose.
Little introspection but, like Tolstoy, running a myriad of well-developed characters through actions and reactions that seem completely believable.The most interesting thing for me is seeing labor and unions portrayed in such a positive light.
Another thing I appreciated was Dos Passos' equally compelling portrait of Capitalists like Moorehouse.
Dos Pasos, John. THE 42ND PARALLEL. (1930). ****. I first read this novel, the first of the author’s trilogy, U.S.A., about forty-five years ago, when I was in grad school. I remember that it really knocked me for a loop back then since it was full of new ways of providing the reader with information about time and place of the characters. Dos Pasos used techniques that I hadn’t seen before: Newsreel excerpts in bold print and asides he called “The Camera’s Eye.” The novel itself tells the story
I remember that it really knocked me for a loop back then since it was full of new ways of providing the reader with information about time and place of the characters.
Dos Pasos used techniques that I hadn’t seen before: Newsreel excerpts in bold print and asides he called “The Camera’s Eye.” The novel itself tells the story of several men and women trying to make their way in America in the period just prior to WW I.
Dos Pasos manages to bring America of the period to life through his cast of characters, and, presumably, continues to do so in the succeeding two novels.
And sometimes I am tempted to give a dated book extra credit because I get to study history while reading a story with plot and characters.I liked this book a lot, it makes me want to read more from the period...
except I think I may have already read some stories from this period!
"life happening," I'm sure you know that cliche - well that's this book - "life leading to WWI" on a racist note, all the characters are white, pretty much.
But in my listening to the audio version, I didn’t get that much out of it.
I did enjoy the snippets of stories of the characters involved, and I liked the way it captured the time, but it really didn’t fit together well.
Dos Passos tells jumbled chapters of interwoven stories about a handful of characters.
The problem is that on audio these all ran together, so that you might miss the transition and all of the sudden the characters and story has jumped somewhere else.
In the audio book, these snippets are sung in an old-timey way that unfortunately was just not pleasant.
ABD'deyiz. 2. Dünya Savaşı patlamak üzere. Avrupa çoktan birbirine girmiş durumda. ABD savaşa girecek mi girmeyecek mi tartışmaları arasında bir kaç karakterle tanışıyoruz.Tabi ABD fırsatlar ülkesi. Kafasını kullanan yolunu alıyor. Bizim karakterlerimiz de böyle. Farklı farklı zamanlarda farklı farklı yerlerde başlıyorlar maceralarına. 4-5 kişi bunlar.Türlü maceralar yaşıyorlar. Açlıktan sefaletten sürünüyorlar. Ortak özellikleri çok çalışkan olmaları. Zekadan daha önemli bu.Tabi zekilerde, o ayrı. En sonunda hepsinin yolu aynı yerde kesişiyor. Yazar bigün hepsini bir araya getiriyor.
Highly enjoyable book once you figure out how to read all of Dos Passos new literary devices such as Camera Eye and Newsreels. Good picture of the common man in America in the time leading up to WW 1.
606. U.S.A., John Dos Passosینگه دنیا - جان دس پاسوس (هاشمی) ادبیات جلد یک از سه مدار 42 با اخباری آغاز میشود که شامل ترانههای عامیانه، سرعنوان روزنامهها و هيجان و تب و تاب کشور در آغاز قرن بیستم است
606.	U.S.A., John Dos Passosینگه دنیا - جان دس‌ پاسوس (هاشمی) ادبیات جلد یک از سه مدار 42 با اخباری آغاز میشود که شامل ترانه‌های عامیانه، سرعنوان روزنامه‌ها و هيجان و تب و تاب کشور در آغاز قرن بیستم است
Una grandísima novela con cinco historias independientes que se van cruzando. Narra la vida de esas personas en los EEUU de principios del siglo XX, en los labores de la I Guerra Mundial.Fantastica
The most effective way to approach history, this book shows, is through a time's language. A plain collection of facts may as well be lies.
Personajes como marionetas al servicio de su ideología política.
I've come around on the newsreels, but I just can't warm up to the camera's eyes. The meat, though, is the individual stories that wend their way through. Overall, this is excellent.
Modernist collage. American lives. Early 20th century.
"Janey and Alice had a good time that winter.
She began telling Alice that she was an old stickinthemud to stay on at Mrs. Robinson's.
When Alice used to talk warningly about men having one idea, she'd laugh and say, "Oh, they're not so smart." She discovered that just a little peroxide in the water when she washed her hair made it blonder and took away the mousey look.
