https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/24974996-dear-martin
But it’s the world many black Americans face every day.Dear Martin introduces us to Justyce - a strong and important voice in YA.
Through third person narration alternating with Justyce's letters to Martin Luthor King Jr., we get insight into some of the experiences had by black teenage boys.For those looking for books to complement The Hate U Give, this is a good place to start.
While The Hate U Give looks at the shooting of unarmed black men and boys through the eyes of a female witness, Dear Martin instead offers what it is like to be one of those racially-profiled black men.
His letters to Martin Luther King, Jr. beautifully depict the pain and difficulty that comes with being a black individual in the United States today.It is so incredibly intersectional and finds a way to address so many talking points that many of my peers - of all ages - could benefit from seeing through this book's lens.
There is a lot of explanation given for how, in a nutshell, once a group of people have been put down over and over for so long, in such painful ways, and have been shown that no amount of effort they can put forth will be recognized as equal, it can be easy to feel defeated and hopeless - sometimes to the point of giving up.Justyce's reaction to his unlawful arrest, and the ways that his privileged, wealthy white classmates treat him, broke my heart.
I finished it in under 3 hours so if you are looking for a short yet intense read, this is the one for you!I feel I avoided Dear Martin for a few months because I assumed the entire novel was written in letters to Dr. King, which is not a format I prefer to read.
I thoroughly enjoyed Justyce’s narration – It was so satisfying to read from the perspective of an intelligent, self/socially aware teen.All together, I loved Dear Martin.
I would have loved more scenes, more letters to Dr. King, more development from side characters.
3.5*
This is the kind of #BlackLivesMatter book that's super important for everyone to read.
He's like just doing his best and he's super smart and the world just kicks him down.
I also liked how he's on the brink of graduation, because it's really nice reading about teens who know what they're doing (HE'S GOING TO YALE) and are off to like change the world.
You know how hard it is to find books in this style?!?
The world needs to change and I'm so glad #ownvoices authors are putting their stories out there to make a difference.
It’s hard to write a book that makes a reader feel, but reading this book just made me feel like I was being punched in the gut, over and over.
While the characters may not get many specific traits, they all feel so much like real people.
I feel like people are going to ignore this because of The Hate U Give, an equally important and fantastic book: and can I just say: you shouldn't.
Both have slightly different focuses when discussing racism, both are very different books, and 
It's our responsibility to support fantastic books like this that speak to the importance of ending racism.
I myself, a POC, still have more privilege than others, and books like this have opened my eyes to that even more.Sarah Jane (also known as SJ) was an AMAZING character and I love her so.
for “taking over” and not letting Justyce stand up for himself—because while it’s amazing that white people will defend POC, they also need to let POC speak up for themselves first, if they want to.) Ugh. I love her.My ONLY complaint was that it was, um, way too short.
First of all, I'm obviously white and realllllly can't speak on some of the important discussions covered in this book.
It's the kind of book that gets you fired up to see some serious change asap, yet also makes you want to just sit there hugging it for highlighting so many things that desperately needed to be said in media like YA.I did kind of wish that the white cops and idiotic classmates hadn't been such simplified caricatures, though, because that took some potential impact out of the story for me.
It will not go into extreme length about, for instance, affirmative action, but it will talk about it in a way that makes the reader understand easily and then want to talk about it themselves by using their own examples.Martin Luther King is someone who is mentioned at least once by every teacher you'll encounter, especially your Humanities ones.
Our main character, Justyce, studies Doctor King in order to understand his own life better.But it isn't always easy to keep one's anger in control and show a smile when it seems that there is nothing worth fighting for anymore.
I don't get why everyone loves this book tbh. Yes, the things that are being addressed are important and sadly very very real but this was just so TERRIBLY written!! And I don't want to feel forced to love a book just because of it's sensitive/important topic. I want to love a book because it's good.PS: The synopsis basically spoils about 60% of the book?!
This book is so powerful and moving. This book is literally one of the best I've read in ages and deserves equal amount of hype as The Hate U Give. I cannot stress how much people need to read this book!RTC!////buddy read with my most favoritest son (theo) ever!!!I want a good read and I know for a fact this will be a fabulous read!!
Because he’s surrounded by these white ‘I don’t see colour’ dudes who think racial inequalities don’t exist anymore and can’t even realise they benefit of white privileges.Justyce is a complex character, he goes through such an important journey throughout this book : going from this ‘let’s do anything to be integrated’ kid to this ‘I’m done being someone I’m not’ one.
None of us are.This book has a lot of extremely interesting side characters, and I have to admit my two favourites were SJ and Doc. SJ is this white Jewish girl, she’s so fierce and head-strong, she’s aware of her privileges and uses them to make this fucked up world a better place.
I kept trying to read a chapter at a time over the course of 2 days, but every time I sat down for one chapter I ended up reading five.
By day three I just said "screw my responsibilities" and let myself curl up in bed with this beautiful and powerful book.
It truly hurts to read because of all the raw issues it explores, but I loved every minute of it.
It makes you laugh, it makes you cry, it makes you angry.
It gives you everything a great book is supposed to give you and more.
#BookTubeAthon Day 5, Book 5. Challenge: Let a coin toss decide your first read.[4.5 ⭐] Wow. I began reading this around 4.30pm and finished it by 7:25pm. I was completely absorbed into the story and it left me in such a haze after I finished it. If you loved The Hate U Give, then you’ll love this. I actually preferred this story and the format is was told in, the writing, the characters, and how the subject matter of the Black Lives Matter movement was spoken about. Just a stunning novel.
#BookTubeAthon Day 5, Book 5. Challenge: Let a coin toss decide your first read.[4.5 ⭐️] Wow. I began reading this around 4.30pm and finished it by 7:25pm. I was completely absorbed into the story and it left me in such a haze after I finished it. If you loved The Hate U Give, then you’ll love this. I actually preferred this story and the format is was told in, the writing, the characters, and how the subject matter of the Black Lives Matter movement was spoken about. Just a stunning novel.
Update with the aesthetics that are on my Tumblr (because why not?). English/ItalianoFirst of all, I have to say I am not a native english speaker so, please, I prefer to not be attacked, if I made any mistakes. Instead of do that, it would be nice if you corrected me, thank you :) Most importantly, I would like to thank NetGalley and publishers for allowing me to read this book. Thank you very much. Actual rating: 3.5 starsWriting this review won’t be easy because of this book destroyed my hear
More people like her should exist.Why I didn’t give it more stars:There is so much slang in this book and I, since I’m not an English-speaker person, couldn’t understand some parts of it.
Per coloro che si stanno domandando se questo libro è come The Hate U Give (prima di leggerlo me lo chiedevo anche io), direi di leggerli entrambi perché, nonostante entrambi siano sul #BlackLivesMatter, sono abbastanza diversi.Di cosa parla Dear Martin?
Più persone come lei dovrebbero esistere .Perché non gli ho dato più stelline:C’è davvero molto slang in questo libro e io, dato che non sono una persona che è nata in un paese dove si parla inglese, non ho potuto capire alcune parti di esso.
Holy fucking shit I loved this book so much.DEAR MARTIN is a masterpiece.
There's simply no other way to describe it.
I'm amazed by how well-done everything is: the characters, the story, the writing, the cover, the plot twists...It fully deserves 5 stars, and I wish I could give it more.
When this book releases, there's no excuse for not reading it.
You simply have to.
Still read it.
Still read it.
This is a book for EVERYONE, and it's a book that deserves every bit of the pre-publication praise it's gathering.
3.75 stars if i’m being reeaaally specific, but honestly the mic drop that this book is pretty much makes up for any tiny qualms that i have.
A really moving, well-written and thought-provoking story, which delves into subjects such as race, violence, culture, identity and relationships.
It is, at times, really difficult to read, because I felt confronted with a reality that I wish were different.
The book was both disturbing and moving and though I thought Angie Thomas' The Hate U Give was very good, I think I liked this book, dealing with a similar situation, even better.
It's the kind of story that should be read in school.
People who make history rarely do.”I like:*the fact that Jus adopts a project, to write letters to Martin Luther King, as a way of exploring how to live his life.*that (white) Jewish SJ is the most articulate spokesperson for racial justice issues in two classroom discussions (though I can imagine some people might not like this).
I might possibly buy he considers joining a gang, but I don’t quite believe it.*Not enough Jus introspection spent on the grieving of the kid who is killed (mentioned above).*I wish Jus would have more fully engaged with the ideas of MLK; like: quote some, mention actual events?
I’m sure there will be some reviews that talk about how the world isn’t like this and police officers don’t do things that are written in this book but I don’t think people realise that police officers are just people and wow some are really fucked up.
His story only gets harder as the book continues and I had to stop reading a few times to really absorb what was happening throughout the book.I particularly liked the addition of the story where Justyce writes letters to Martin Luther King.
It also didn’t read as a woman attempting to write a male as well.I both enjoyed and hated seeing Justyce grow throughout this novel.
so so so so so SO GOODrtc, for real this time
Sometimes I stumble onto a story that renders me speechless for days, but then can be summed up in one emphatic word,"YES!" Taking this to "my" students next week and I cannot wait!
I read this book for the Goodreads' book club Diversity in All Forms!
If you would like to participate in the discussion here is the link: https://www.goodreads.com/topic/show/...I really enjoyed this book!
It was short, but covered so many important topics.
The main character is Justyce McAllister.
The book starts off with a police officer putting him in handcuffs because he was helping his ex-girlfriend late at night (she looks white), because she is drunk.
Throughout the whole book Justyce speaks out and notices all the injustice that is happening to him and around him.
Drop what you're doing at read this immediately.The characterisation is brilliant.The execution is flawless.I ran the full emotional gauntlet with this one; joy, fear, pain, anger, rage, disgust, confusion, revulsion.Sorrow.Loss.This isn't just required reading, its necessary reading.What an outstanding debut novel.
This is such a moving, thought-provoking and powerful book! It was very well-written and I can't wait to see what Nic Stone will write next. This is an absolute must-read!(Btw, I listened to the audiobook of this novel and if you're thinking about giving it a try, I highly recommend you do. The narrator did an amazing job.)
I very much appreciated the message of this book, however it wasn't executed well.
I felt like there needed to be more.
Then it would switch to the letters Jus was writing to MLK...great, cool, I can deal with those two structures.
The constant format switches were distracting from the actual book.
I appreciate those stylized choices when they have a purpose or a meaning to the story, but this just felt lazy and was distracting.Finally, the writing itself was poor and boring at many points.
Sarah-Jean felt like her own type of manic-pixie girl which pissed me off.
- I love how Stone explored the relationships in this book, not only from the racist remarks from white to black people, but also black to white.
Jus's friend Manny is black but has grown up in privilege, surrounded by white guys who carry racist undertones in their conversation.
- One thing I would have wanted is more of an exploration with Jus's relationship with his mom and the black gang that takes matters in their own hand in the latter part of the book.
Dear Martin is about Justyce, a 17 year old high school senior at a prep school in Atlanta who, over the duration of the story, finds himself being treated inappropriately and unfairly in certain situations due to being a young African-American man.
While Dear Martin left me heartbroken over some things, I liked the ending and feel like the book is a good read for YAs and adults alike.
Couldn’t sleep till I finished this 😭😭😭
This book is by no means an easy read, but it’s a necessary one.One of my favorite things about Dear Martin is the writing style.
It’s full of nuance and explores complex topics like intersectionality, racism, and inequality in a thoughtful way.Another reason this story is so engaging and powerful is that you think you’re getting one story, and then, about halfway through the book, Nic Stone punches you right in your feelings and sends the reader (and Justyce) on a completely different, but related, journey.
