https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/13844.The_Milly_Molly_Mandy_Storybook
But my Mother purchased it for my first daughter, and I read it aloud to her.She loved it.It became one of the first chapter books she confidently, and willingly, read alone.
They are just stories of a little girl's life with her Mother and Father and Grandma and Grandpa and Aunty and Uncle, and her friends and neighbours.
And it isn't wanted by the child enjoying it.As a read-aloud book, the stories have a nice lyricism and joy.
Each of the 13 chapters has a self-contained story leading cleanly into the next, a sweet continuity and progression without too much for the young listener to remember from one night to the next.
I am reading this aloud to my five year old and we are both adoring it. The stories are simple and kind, dating from (and perhaps glorifying) a time when life seemed better and less complicated. It is a wonderful introduction to rural life in times past and a great before bed read for little ones who can handle more challenge than your average picture book

Delightful! The sweet innocence of childhood.
Despite it being about a girl, and a girl many many decades past, I do think he'd quite enjoy the stories about Milly-Molly-Mandy.She's a fairly good little girl (she's no Horrid Henry), and has rather twee adventures (blackberry picking, earning money, running a shop), I really liked the writing style, and seeing the quaint language and references to pony and traps, old customs and behaviours.
Her little village seems rather sleepy and quiet, where everyone knows everyone else.The illustrations are wonderful line drawings, and perfectly match the tone and style of the writing.Thoroughly enjoyed my short journey with Edwards, and will definitely try it with my son (currently 4) before long.
A lovely trip down memory lane!
I read (or was read) these stories as a child and loved them.
Never seen them since but it all came flooding back, especially the parts with little friend Susan (who looked like my little friend age 6), and the booby rabbit.
I remember the pictures better than the stories, probably due to my age at the time.
I'd forgotten how virtuous Milly-Molly-Mandy is - all the parts about saving up her pennies to buy presents for her whole extended family must have gone in one ear and out the other.
This delightful books takes us back in time to a British village. Milly-Molly-Mandy is a very proper and clever girl (almost too much so) who has a little adventure in every chapter. They aren't big adventures--little things like getting a prize at a party or going on a fishing trip, but they are cute. My five year old son seemed to like it, although he complained once that it was about a girl. I don't think this would be his first choice. He likes more masculine literature!
Extremely charming! I haven't read all the stories yet but the ones I have read are filled with warmth, humor and a gentle understanding of children, imparting wisdom and empathy effortlessly and without being obnoxiously preachy. Though the village life is "old-fashioned" by today's standards, the children yearn to be independent as well as helpful, and I think this is timeless.
The copy I bought for my girls was like the others on the list which are cream and candy pink and beautifully illustrated. What can I say. I want to live in a world where people are kind and considerate I want to live in a utopic society where people are fair and honest and grateful for the little they have.I want to live in Milly Moly Mandy land!!
I felt like reading this children's classic again! I haven't read Milly-Molly-Mandy stories since I was very young - they were among my favourites. I adore the illustrations. I want to live in an attic and be able to buy a chick for a penny!
Saya beruntung nemu buku tua ini di Jl Semarang di Surabaya. Isinya bagus, ilustrasinya juga oke. Ceritanya khas cerita anak zaman dulu. Doing chores, errands. Sepertinya anak zaman dulu mandiri, banyak kerjaan dan rajin.
I loved these books when I was younger. Loved the map of the village inside the cover. Do little girls still read books like this I wonder.
They are very gentle stories, usually having as their central focus Milly-Molly-Mandy doing something new or trying something by herself, but they were charming rather than boring.
My 5yo can easily sit through two stories and still be sad when we stopped.It has 21 stories of around 10 pages each, so it's a good book for reading a chapter a day.
Each chapter is a self-contained story and doesn't depend on the others.The only thing I didn't like: the name "Milly-Molly-Mandy" is SO LONG to read dozens of time per story!
Every bit as charming as I remember it! I enjoyed these stories as a little girl and was able to take something different away from them as an adult. Milly Molly Mandy is the sweetest child and these stories are all simple, good old-fashioned fun. No big moral lessons, no preaching, just lovely children's stories exactly the way they should be.
This is a fun book that my girls love. I enjoy reading it except for the repeated use of “Milly-Molly-Mandy” instead of a pronoun. Some sections are more tongue-twister-like than others.
Millicent Margaret Amanda was known as Milly-Molly-Mandy and her little friend Susan makes for adorable stories that I just loved.
An adorable, quaint little book. Brings back so many memories of childhood!
I think, living on the edge of a rural community, that perhaps her life might have been something like this.This is gentle storytelling at its best.
The stories are really vignettes - peeks into life back in the late 1920s for this little girl and her family.
The things that happen to her are probably things that happened to many little girls in many families just like that back then.
About being considerate and doing for others.There's a hint of too much 'niceness' that harkens back to the old morality tales foisted on children in the 1800s - a sort of, do good and good things will follow.
And, after four more years of reading out loud to kids under my belt, I appreciate this book in a new way.
While Milly-Molly-Mandy is never described as being anything but lovely and perfect, she doesn't come across in a self-righteous way at all, but rather like a well loved and secure child in a loving family.
While they may not satisfy the readers that must always have a lot of conflict and tension in the story, I was pleased that even my 10-year-old loved these stories after reading a lot of very exciting literature.
My mother read this book when she was little.
I remember her reading it to me when I was little and I thought it was the most boring book ever.
And a lot of things seem to cost a penny.
The book is illustrated, and in my Mom's edition, the illustrations were 3-color, adding red (and pink) to the black and white drawings by the author.
The paperback I read just had black and white.
But both had the map of the town at the front which both my mother and I loved as you can trace Milly Molly Mandy's "adventures."
My son and I read this book as a part of Sonlight's P4/5 curriculum.
These stories are a wonderful little window into life in the 1920s in a small English village.
They are a little difficult to read aloud.
I consider myself pretty good at reading aloud, but I did stumble over the phrasing more than few times.
The chapters can easily stand alone or be read in order.
Despite all of this, my son absolutely fell in love with Milly-Molly-Mandy, and so did I.
When we finished the book, my son immediately told me I needed to find more Milly-Molly-Mandy stories for him!
i chose to read this book because it fit into the catogory of a book written before 1950 and this book was written in 1925.
i found this catogory intresting because the style of writing is very different to nowadays.
my favourite quote is “But she went and fetched some marigolds from her own little garden, and put them in a vase on the chest of drawers, for she knew there was lots of room for love, even if there was not much for great-aunties.” i learned that this book is a very easy read and would be good for someone learning to read.
Lovely illustrations.
A nice opportunity to discuss how technology and children's roles in the household have changed over time.
But as a narrative whole, this book is very repetitive and simple.
I read this to my 6- and 8-year-olds, and even the younger one was eager to stop for the day after just one or two chapters.
I am so glad to be done with this book so I never again have to read aloud the phrase "Milly Molly Mandy and father and mother and grandpa and grandma and Aunty and Uncle" - which occurs basically every other paragraph!
They are cute and fun for kids and my daughter seemed to enjoy listening to the tales.
I personally do not care much for the book as I find it difficult to read out loud and some of the sentence structure is awkward because it is an older book.
The kids also do things in the book that many kids today cannot do do to the nature of our society.
Thankfully, I did not get asked about these things, which is likely why it is read in preschool.
It's a "to each his own" type.I'm giving it 4 stars because my daughter liked it.
Just the breath of fresh air that I needed in a tough week. This is quite British (the family lives in a white thatched-roof cottage) and completely delightful. I am now filled with nostalgia for things I have never known and I love that feeling. Milly-Molly-Mandy is a sweetheart of a little girl and her family is simply wonderful.
The Milly Molly Mandy books are an absolute delight. Wonderful, wonderful old-fashioned tales that are just a treat to read. I loved them when I was little (they were like a literary cuddle when read aloud by my mother) and still love them now that I am significantly bigger.
Adorable!
I read this to Titus for School time. He enjoyed it.
Great re-aloud. The girls are loving this book.
Great book for kids and mamas...little bit like living in a perfect past. Milly Molly Mandy is so well behaved :)...a mama can dream.
