https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/40856825-martin-dressler
This would be fine in a book by Marquez, but anchored in the realism with which the author was attempting to portray the building explosion in the city, it seemed incongruous to me.I do not quite see what the Pulitzer committee of 1997 was aiming for in awarding the prize for Dressler that year, but then I have come to question their judgment at several occasions (The Known Wotld, Tinkers, All the Light We Cannot See).Thankfully the book is short (I read it in about 2 1/2 hours) so I don't feel like I completely wasted my time.
A cautionary tale for ambitious people, because who likes ambitious people?
I can best describe it as kind of like Atlas Shrugged, but you know, the complete opposite, so good.
True story: I went out to eat at a restaurant in Brooklyn, The Dressler.
I asked our waiter if the restaurant was named after this book.
It turns out it was, indeed, named after this book, and in fact, it's the owner's favorite book.
I think we got a free desert out of it.
I've never gotten free desert from an Ayn Rand fan.
Down a narrow sidestreet in a bright crack between warehouses, an East River scow filled with cobblestones slipped by.What a beautiful piece of writing; it's almost magical in the way it conjures up not only images, but sounds and smells as well.Here is the story of almost three decades in the life of Martin Dressler, a young go-getter who starts with nothing and works hard to build a fortune.
And as Martin turned the corner he seemed to hear, in the warm air, a sound of crumbling masonry, he seemed to see, in the summer light, a faint dust of old buildings sitting down.All in all, the book remains a love letter to old New York and a paean to the entrepreneurial spirit.
Believe it or not, his dream is not even a perfect hotel.All dreamers, all artists, all creators wish simply to build a world: a microcosm which actively encompasses and contains their singular vision of the macrocosm in which they find themselves.
Millhauser is showing us that in the mind of the dreamer and in the fantasy world Dressler has created for himself, the concerns of the material world fade to white noise.

Martin Dressler is the central protagonist of this novel.
He had dreams, much bigger dreams.So, this is about life in New York City a decade or two before and at the turn 19th century.
If you have dreams, and if you are willing to put in hard work to achieve them, anything is possible.
His hotel is about to go bust, but he is not defeated; he is still young, and the world is still there for the taking (hide spoiler)]!Along the way we watch how Martin relates to women.
Y es que Millhauser nos propone un cuento, una fábula en la que un sueño puede ser un fin en sí mismo, y en donde la redención y la paz pueden residir más en el fracaso que en el éxito.
Un cuento, en fin, compuesto por dos tramas, una la del soñador irredento en busca del ideal, y otra en la que tienen lugar tres mujeres, una madre y sus dos hijas, una bella, etérea y melancólica, y la otra fea, enérgica y vivaz, dando lugar a una cierta duplicidad.'Martin Dressler' es una historia magnífica, que nos habla del afán de superación y de los bellos sueños del protagonista, sin importar la cruel realidad.
This book...
no good.
Once again I was lured by a Pulitzer Prize sticker that in the end left me wondering who exactly votes for these novels.The description of New York City at the boom of its birth (late 1800s) was interesting but that's about it.
First, the story bothered me.
Martin spends too much time trying to out-do his last feat.
He also ends up marrying the wrong girl, which is very frustrating.
Second, his constant description of Caroline's hair pulled back tight against her head was beyond annoying.And third, the story was constantly moving along, toward (I assumed) something, but nothing ever happened.
I once read somewhere that people err not for want of doing what is bad, but for misdirected want of what is good.
In the end Martins success does not satisfy him.
In true fashion of dreamers - of the American dream(!) - Martin wants to achieve even more, probably that which seems impossible.
Towards the end, when he describes the building, and the completed Grand Cosmo, the narrative tends towards something of a dream itself, say a sort of science fiction 'other world' kind of stuff.
Good book, worth a second read with a closer attention paid to the language!
Martin Dressler is a book about an American dream or, to be more precise, about a man dreaming a big American dream.
Martin Dressler dreams to rival the God and to create his own perfect world within the world… “Imagine two stones – gray, smooth, flattish: small enough to hold comfortably in your hand.
There is nothing interesting about these stones.
I describe the pleasing feel of the stone in my hand.
I say that this stone fills me with well-being and confidence.
Then I tell you that you may have either of the two stones.
Dressler, as a character, needs to be confused or he can't represent the chaos of the American Dream.
(view spoiler)[But maybe that he ends up alone, that they retreat to their own versions of the dream, means a lot.
But Millhauser is at his best when he writes fables, I suspect, so the latter half of the book -- when dreams and reality merge confluent -- is most impressive.6.
So. We just have to dance, as best we can, within the confines of Millhauser's American Dream.
I feel fairly certain this won the Pulitzer because it's about New York.
I couldn't possibly be for any other reason.
It couldn't have been for good writing, which doesn't exist in this, nor for good characterization, which is missing entirely.
It was absolutely awful.The time period is approximately the same as in Finney's Time and Again and in Carr's The Alienist.
Both of those were published before this one, and, while I didn't especially care for either of them, I think they did a better job with the setting and time period.Oh well.
Crossed one off the Pulitzer list.
2,5/5Steven Millhauser deservedly received the Pulitzer Prize...... but for the wrong book. Where his short story collection Dangerous Laughter excells in unpredictability and wit, this one is so cliché and tedious.There is still a certain Roald Dahl magical vibe coming through, but not nearly enough to uplift the whole thing
I'm a fan of Millhauser's short stories.
Several of his story collections have delivered cover to cover.
It seems to be marketed as book in classic tradition, a story of American gusto, ingenuity, of an ethnic Brooklyn kid with smarts who makes something of himself.
Then he starts hanging out with these two sisters, and for reasons that are unexplained he marries the reclusive, depressive one.
His marriage is poor, and he really seems to love the other sister.
He becomes inconceivable and uncreditable as a character.
The setting is replete, and the main character a total enigma.
“Giấc mơ Mỹ” chuyển mình một cách khéo léo, sang cái lạch hay ho, ở điểm này, khi độc giả nhanh chóng nhận ra, Martin không khao khát một cái gì đó cụ thể.
Chủ cửa hàng điểm tâm: không phải.
Anh là Chúa trời trong cái thế giới mà anh muốn tạo nên, là kẻ kiến tạo tất cả, là nơi bao trọn mọi thứ từ cỏn con đến kỳ vỹ, là nơi con người đi vào và trú ngụ trọn trong đó mà không phải đi ra nữa.
I loved the early descriptions of New York.
The writing style was lovely and prosey and I felt it suited the descriptions and the feelings of a growing economy, changing times, entrepreneurial spirit, etc.
I was quite pleased with the first half of the book.
Eventually I found him irritating as hell.
The end of the book was lists and lists and lists that didn't so much build a tension as they did read like the author himself was pretty eager to get to the end, but he promised himself 300 pages.
Like most fictional dreamers, he's ahead of his time, and his dream can't survive in his world.Martin's fantasy of a place you can visit that takes you with a few easy steps from the world as you know it to any number of places around the world, under the sea, or in the heavens, was as good a metaphor for the Internet as any I've encountered, and I enjoyed seeing how Millhauser describes that feeling of hyperlinked virtual worlds in a physical way.
Millhauser is great at playing with themes of worlds within worlds, fantasies come to life, and magic tricks, and it's great fun to inhabit this space with him.
The story sounded like an interesting take on the American drive to make things ever bigger and better.
Maybe that's what Millhauser meant to do, but he got lost somewhere checking into the Grand Cosmopolitan or Grand Martini or whatever the name of that white elephant hotel was.
Endless pages of lists and dull people doing...
I read it ten years ago, but the dullness is such that it stays with you.
If that's your thing, run out and grab a copy.
Otherwise, join the crowd and avoid a stay in Dressler's hotel.
a pre wwi novel set in new york city, where the titular martin strives to achieve his dreams....of what?
no, not really.what does martin want?
pushing north of the city to buy lots on the boulevard (the street that will become broadway) and build taller and grander and weirder visions of totally encapsulated worlds where the renters will never have to leave if they don;t want to.
not a bad novel, i think he won a pulizter prize for it, but it is up to the reader to recognize the puzzle the characters fiddle with as the modern world takes them over.
This story is about the quintessential concept that defines American culture: the American dream.
Martin Dressler begins the book as a clerk in a cigar store in New York at the dawn of the 20th century.
As he watches the city spring up around him, he's filled with ideas of his own on improving the landscape.
Along the way, he picks up several consumer concepts that are in their infancy, like subliminal advertising campaigns and department stores.
While each new project enjoys great success, Martin is filled with the sensation that he wants to make more.
Millhauser’s book explores the tensions between Martin’s businessman’s realism and his idealistic dreaming.As a young boy, Martin helps his immigrant father, Otto, in the small family cigar and tobacco shop on Broadway.
Young Martin soon works his way into a job as a bellhop at the Vanderlyn, an old,ornate hotel down the street from the cigar store.
The reason why this was on my shelf is that it was an assigned text in one of my English courses at uni.
I don't remember which one, which is a shame, because that might have given me an idea of how to read it.
I mean, having read it now (obviously I never did for the class!), I really want to know why it was included.
I'd also like to know what was passed over the year this won the Pulitzer - was it like a typical Oscars night, the choices a bit thin so  Shakespeare in Love  wins?
(Am I the only person who didn't like that film movie?)Maybe this is a classic piece of literature for some people - and naturally this is just my opinion - but I found this book to be incredibly light, a story that skims over everything, brushing against things before darting away, never really accomplishing anything except a thin ode to, well, to an "American dreamer".Set in New York in the late 19th and early 20th centuries, Martin is the only child of a cigar-store owner, and at the young age of 13 becomes a bell-boy at the Vanderlyn Hotel.
Beyond being underwhelmed, I was downright bored. I only finished it because it was on my Pulitzer challenge list.
A unique take on the American Dream that focuses primarily on the dream-like nature of ambition, achievement, sacrifice, and failure. Ultimately, it serves as a cautionary tale about trying too hard to create in real life what is best left to slumber. Also, there's a sentence that lasts six pages if you're into that sort of thing.
(A good book, and quite readable, but a deep book, with subterranean levels.)The book tells the story of Martin Dressler, born in New York City in 1872, where his father runs a cigar shop in the midst of the city.
Martin is a master of the art of making his dreams reality, and he does this totally within the framework of turn-of-the-last century New York City.In the course of the book, he meets a family consisting of a widowed mother and her two daughters, Emmeline and Caroline.
Which conclusion, of course, leads one to wonder where one’s own dreams and reality are logically headed.
He gets a chance to move out of the store into a hotel, where he starts out as a bellboy, but rapidly moves up in rank until he is an assistant manager.
His dreams require more of him than that, however, and he opens a restaurant.
When that is successful, he opens another – and then another.
He is successful, but he gets bored.
It is a great success.
Then – guess what – he opens another hotel.
When this one is successful, he plans the great hotel-not-a-hotel of his dreams.
The characters and the writing style are rather stiff and one-sided; but as I finished it up, I realized it was an allegory about The American Dream (which is, of course, the subtitle - "The Tale of an American Dreamer.") There's rich, over-the-top detail about the principal character's architectural and business ventures - so detailed, in fact, that I briefly wondered if it was semi-historical.
(In fact, I'd be curious to hear an architect's view of the book!) The description of New York City in the late 1800's was really interesting ...
All in all, in my opinion, it's an "interesting" but not "wonderful" novel.
His ambition and smarts put him at the forefront of development, until he goes too far.
Gorgeous writing:"And at once he saw: deep under the earth, in darkness impenetrable, an immense dynamo was humming.
Above the dynamo was an underground hive of shops, with electric lights and steam heat, and above the shops an underground park or garden with what seemed to a theater of some kind.
Above the ground, a great lobby stretched away: elevator doors opened and closed, people strode in and out, bells rang, the squeak of valises mingles with the rattle of many keys and the ringing of telephones, alcove opened into alcove as far as the eye could see."
I bet if I bothered to uproot every review of this novel that the word magical would appear several times in every one of them.
That's because Martin Dressler is a fairy tale.
And I don't like fairy tales.
Because they're composed of smushy-gushy dreamy-creamy language that I do not brook.
If I were the cynical type, I'd even say that this book is not a fairy tale at all but rather a parody of a fairy tale.
And if I were the romantical type, I'd say that this book was a I dream I dreamt once, a dream I've tried to redream every night since.

BoringI'm so bored with this book.
I'm so bored that I don't even want to go back to it to see why it was so boring for this review.
I just want to start reading another book.
But just quickly: a lot of talking about the mundane in a mundane way; there is a lot of detail in this book but not really any telling detail; main character seems two dimensional, and so do the rest; the narration seems very distant from the story and doesn't involve the reader's imagination.
Right then, I'm moving on to a new book!
The experience of reading this book, was one of the more tedious reading experiences I've had in some time. Millhauser has a simple and enjoyable writing style and the book reads like a page-turner, but the problem is, you don't want to turn the pages. Until the very end of the book there's virtually no conflict, you just sit there and watch Dressler became more and more unstuck from reality and more and more lost in his dreams. It's linear, predictable, and boring.
This was a charming tale. A bright, creative boy dreams a dream in the last quarter of the 19th century. It is a time when America, and New York City in particular, is growing and transforming. We watch as the young boy becomes a man, and his dream unfolds. It is a tale of vision, and of vision meeting reality. It is full of imagination and optimism, tempered with the frustrations that emerge when dreams and realities meet.
This book reminded me of the Rem Koolhaas classic "Delirious New York," which I recommend as companion reading with "Martin Dressler." This is a tale that is both simple and complex, of America at the start of the 20th century, and of the proprietary nature of dreams and ambition.
From the description and other reviews I had the impression that this book was, in the end, a tragedy, but I actually found the ending quietly optimistic.
I'll risk a spoiler and cite a quote from late in the novel that, for me, comes as close as anything to summarizing this book: "For he had done as he liked, he had gone his own way, built his castle in the air.
One of books to read, re-read and re-read again.
This is a tough book to rate/review.
I shouldn't be surprised because others also seemed ambivalent about it.
I feel like I liked it more than I should though the end truly disappointed me.
It was imaginative and a true character examination of one man who had bold and unattainable visions of a new concept for living, shopping, and being entertained.
A his visions grew more fantastical, I began to lose interest or more accurately found it hard to suspend my disbelief.
But truly this book was all about Martin Dressler and everyone else was incidental.
Winner of the Pulitzer Prize, Martin Dressler portrays the American consciousness in early 20th century New York City through the life of its protagonist.
I did not love this book, since it was more of a philosophical look into a city’s historical infrastructure and was not plot-driven, but I can still appreciate the ingenious and ambitious Martin Dressler-types of the early 20th century who built up our cities into the centers of thought and commerce that they are today.
Gosh, what an odd book.
It's really like a long exercise in creating a metaphor for the overexuberant capitalism of the turn of last century, and its ultimate vacuity.
*some vague spoilers*The first half of the book I really enjoyed, but once the Vernon sisters entered I felt things went downhill.
I did not need to know quite so much about the taste in novelties of that era; or more to the point, I didn't get so much from having lists of it made for me.
Not sure what to take from it, ultimately; a sense of taken-abackness?It was a really strange book.
He grew up working in his father's cigar shop in late 19th century New York, and he became enchanted with progress, development, business, modern archetecture, and the attitude that if you possess vision and discipline then you will achieve your dreams.The main theme building through the novel is that despite Martin's success in all of his fantastic business ventures he is still not satisfied and is always looking to the next big idea.
80% of the novel builds to this realization, which seems like such a waste because it was so obvious.
I would have liked it if this story began where it ends.
But in the end Martin can be seen as similar to the character Icarus in Greek Mythology, he flew and dreamed until he was too high and plunged into disaster.
For example, towards the end of the novel, the story of the Vernon women could have played out much more dramatically but in the end they simply fade away deeper into Martin’s dream and he continues to worry over his hotel.
At least the final scene of the novel has Martin finally waking from his dream into the bright sunny world instead of his continuing to dive deeper into his magnificent yet unsustainable dream of the Grand Cosmo.
The characters and story were completely flat.
I couldn't detect a climax at all.
I couldn't even figure out if Dressler, had any feelings.
The characters he was surrounded by certainly had nothing to lend them a shade of realness.
The story had nothing really to lend itself to reading either.
The ideas were all there, but the lack of emotion from the characters, the lack of climax from the story, the lack of just about anything other than paragraph after paragraph of boring descriptions make this book one that I'll never pick up again.
Had to read it for Book Club, and although the first 50 pages or so were interesting (the author is very good at describing NYC in the late 1800s/early 1900s) - the plot defined the characters - Martin wasn't real to me - he was a fantasy character with nothing to empathize with.
We're all like that, and if that's all this book was supposed to be about, well - you really don't need to read it to know we're all like that.
And I'm not interested in reading about someone like that.If you're assigned this book for an assignment - you have my sympathy.
I agree with others that the vivid descriptions of late-19th century New York are compelling and meticulously researched, and I have to assume this is what led to its accolades because the plot and writing generally did nothing for me.From the short, simply-named chapters to the parable-like style, I kept waiting for the book to speed up and really grab me and it just never happened.
I did feel empty and unsatisfied, but mainly because the book just never grabbed me and I felt like I barely knew the main character.
The characters also are not real and the buildings erected by the protagonist are pure figments of the imagination.
Campfires in bucolic settings recreated in subterranean levels of residential hotels??As I approached the end, however, I realized that this "Tale of an American Dreamer" was itself a dream of the American Dream and wasn't meant to be real.
But whose hallucinations are shared with us -- the author's or the protagonist's?Perhaps my enjoyment of this oddly memorable book was marred by having read "Life at the Dakota" many years ago -- a non-fictional account of the same era on the same topic in the same locale.
Millhauser lavishes so much attention on the period detail and so little on plot or characterization, or even an exploration of the themes he seems to want to take up: ambition, artifice, and their conflation in the word “dream.” I think he has written only novellas and short fiction since Martin Dressler, and that’s a wise choice, since this is really a way-overextended short story.
But this summer I've read three Pulitzer Prize winners from the last 15 years, and I'm beginning to think there's a problem with the judges...
