https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/227556.How_to_Read_Better_and_Faster
I'm so grateful I found this book. I might not be the fastest reader now, but I've at least increased my reading speed by 100%(I was unnaturally slow).
I worked really hard on studying and completing ALL 30 of the sessions including the vocabulary lessons. I learned so much. Even though the selections in the timed reading sections were very outdated, the techniques and skills outlined in the book were not. It was extremely useful and worthwhile. Now I just need to practice what I've learned!4 1/2 stars.
For someone who is looking for a speed-up reading basic manual. This is going to be awesome for the person as I was one of them. If continued the mechanics learned, then certainly one can become an avid reader. I was not fond of reading earlier but now I am really looking for books to apply the training.
This book teaches you in a Very methodical way to improve your reading speed and involves lots of practice sessions.Helped me in changing few of my learning habits and learned the mechanics of reading and efficient methods. I wouldn't have learned these things or unlearned few of my bad reading habits without this book. Leaving aside the fact that this book's help in improving reading speed - it helps you know the Good and Bad reading habits and practices. There is a considerable improvement in my reading speed too.
Norman Lewis through his subtle way of conveying ideas sets a structure for the reader to inhibit certain practices that restrict an individual from becoming an efficient reader. The book initially describes who an efficient reader is, and then goes ahead to highlight key points for someone to become into one. This book is for someone who wants to learn the art of reading at speeds of 600-800 words per minute.
It's a workbook. Must read for anyone looking to improve the reading habits. I could increase my reading speed by more than 70%. Would recommend that book is read daily along with doing exercises and is completed within a set timeframe. 1-2 months should be more than enough. Happy reading and get ready to feel a change in your bad reading habits.
If you think you know how to read - read this book.
Well, I actually sped read this one. Not very detailed, I ordered another book on the topic today. I am very interested in the topic. I hope I can learn to do it!
Its a workbook... good one. Felt like i am back in school while reading it. you have to do it diligently to be able to benefit from it.
Though most of the message is redundant, exercises are very useful and help you build a more active rather than passive attitude towards reading.
One of the best books available in market on speed reading,the exercises and assessments given in each chapters are very good to enhance your reading speed to a very good level,concepts given are based on psychological researches and the best part is that even the passages given for practices are the extracts from either great lectures or from some very good books which are also helpful for enhancing knowledge.A must read for anyone who reads a lot and want to increase his speed to cover more books than he is covering at the moment.
I came upon another gem. It’s very informative and a real guide in reading faster than one normally would. I would definitely employ all the rules and steps to a better reading habit. Normal Lewis is one of my all-time favorite authors!
must read book if you read lots of book
Techniques are extremely helpful. Rigorous practise helps the reader to read fastly and quickly. Especially the book helps us in understanding the good and bad ways of reading.
If you are serious about increasing your reading speed, at the same time maintaining good comprehension of the written words, then this book is for you. It has many practical tips and advice on increasing your reading speed and improving comprehension. The virtue of reading fast cannot be overstated. It helps immensely in your education and career. Highly recommended
Recommended book to improve reading skill. It explains as well as exercises for various methods of reading such as "reading is an adaptive approach; it means, depending on context ( math, science, newspaper, blog, novel, etc.) and purpose/objective adopt specific procedure", " give up 3 habits to improve comprehension skill - inner speech, lip movement and vocalization, and regression "
This looks like a lot of work and I've tried and lost interest in other speed reading books because it felt hard and like it took the pleasure out of reading. But this author claims that once you do the hard work of getting your speed up you will actually comprehend more and you will read as comfortably as you did at your slower speed. It's worth the old college try! I'll keep you posted.
one of the best books
I need to reads this
A compact workshop on speed reading....almost doubled my speed
ths is good book
nothing
very good book
want to read
dfbffb
Great book on reading. Develop a sense of urgency and push yourself. Actively seeking what the author is trying to tell you by looking at the title, headings, etc and skim the rest.
