https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/136637.Brimstone
I’ve boxed myself into reviewing Pendergast books using food comparisons, which, fortunately, is not an overly restrictive framework (I mean, I’m only on book five, so haven’t had to start reaching for okra or polenta just yet), but has, thus far, been influenced by whatever I’ve eaten most recently that seems even remotely applicable.
I won’t judge or argue.)Other parts of the story, though, are more like your favorite local pizza joint—good, sure, but , unless you live in New York (or Chicago), you’re probably getting something that is perfectly satisfying, but not the best you’ve ever had.
There are not enough stars in the world for Preston and Child! Dark mystery and intrigue! Forces of good and evil collide! Satan come forth from hell to take the souls of sinners!Every chapter is interesting with a question answered or a new one raised. Every few pages, another cliffhanger. Each challenge presented seemingly impossible to overcome.If you like mysteries, thrillers, horror, dark humor, crime drama, etc. Basically if you like unstoppable excitement from page one that goes on for book after book, then you need the Pendergast series in your life.
The authors appear to be paying tribute to a number of literary classics and conventions in this novel.
For one thing, one of the characters is lifted exactly out of The Woman in White.
So, it's a bit of a mish-mash of sorts, but it's all good.
It's clear that the authors have been consciously trying to prevent the series from becoming too formulaic and predictable.
Every novel brings a new dimension to the table and Brimstone is no exception.
Think you can predict what's going on?
As such, the novel ends on a bit of a cliffhanger.
Pendergast for President! I love this character and this series. Pendergast is the real deal.
Preston/Child have tackled lots of different plots and they have all worked so far.This book in the series, Brimstone starts off with a charred body found in a Long Island estate.
I loved all the details of the city of Florence along with the art and history references.I enjoyed where the authors took the character of Vincent D’Agosta in this book along with giving more family history on Aloysius Pendergast.
I really love this character and hope to see more of her in the future!If you enjoy thrillers, horror or suspense, then this book and series is right up your wheelhouse!
Like many other Pendergast novels, sometimes it seems like the story is Paranormally focused, but by the end that's not always the case.
I won't say whether it is or isn't this time around, just like Relic and Still Life with Crows, things are usually more than they initially seem, even if what they initially seem is already downright fascinating without adding more plot point brownie points on top.The creepy atmosphere is well-maintained, although it dwindles down into more of a whodunnit.
Usually the endings of these are showstoppers, so this was a little surprising.Pendergast doesn't go as far out into Super-Pendergast territory as some of his previous novels, and we get returning characters such as Vincent D'Agosta.
Powerful men are dying of spontaneous human combustion and everyone’s blaming the devil. Never fear Pendergast is here!And so is D’Agosta! He’s had some knocks since last we saw him but my goodness does he shine here. D’Agosta is fierce.D’Agosta is smoking hot.D’Agosta sizzled.  I enjoyed so much of this book: the plot, historical anecdotes, the action, the sex, that ending. My only complaint is that they could have cut fifty or so pages, this was long.  4.5 Stars happily rounded up. I’m addicted!!!
A mysterious death of a hated Manhattan art critic is judged as caused by internal heating, and a cloven hoof print and bit of brimstone at the scene raise the specter of the Devil’s work.
A scholar they contact has identified a temporal pattern in history including the volcanic explosion behind the myth of Atlantis and the destruction of Sodom and Gomorrah that predicts the end times in this year of 2004.
I was quite disappointed how our fearless duo never succeed in preventing the deaths that are part of a pattern and how most of the mysteries of the murders are revealed to them by the bad guy when finally cornered.
4.5 stars. What can I say? Another stellar Pendergast adventure from Preston & Child.
This is a big book for a thriller at over 700 pages but I devoured it hungrily as it was so good. On to the next one immediately, as Brimstone is the first book of the Diogenes trilogy within the larger series. And with that ending in this volume, impossible not to binge-read now.
I have liked other books in this series very much but I had a hard time getting into this one. I only related to two characters which is rare for me in a Preston Child book. It was a struggle to stick with it.
The best reason for rereading a good book is when you switch from a dog-eared paperback copy to a first edition hardcover copy, so I did just that.The book begins with a crime scene that clearly shows that the devil has taken care of the victim.
the fact that this book is written by messieurs Preston & Child makes it an easy choice, of course you will continue.For the fans of Dan Brown there is plenty of brilliant Italy and the art and history to be enjoyed, only a lot better written by two writers that were just getting started with the Pendergast tales.Well advised to be read.
Brimstone starts off promisingly but putters out towards the end.
So..., the book is actually quite good till the last act.
Once, the villain is revealed in all his Blofeld like glory, the book falters.
Other than this (which is a big deal), Brimstone has excellent writing & characterization blah blah blah.
Preston & Child have used this book to set up a 'Moriarty' for Pendergast or is that a Mycroft?
In addition, a new character is abruptly introduced which made me wonder if I had missed a book in between but then I realized it was not so.
After reading a few of them, I'm not sure why.Two dimensional comic book characters (and not in a good way), over-wrought plots, unbelievable exploits, yadda yadda.Probably the most fundamental criticism I can make regards their craft.
"And then through his amazing intellectual abilities, Pendergast saw the solution: 'Aha!' he exclaimed.
"Through his amazing super-science, Batman analyzes the crime scene and identifies his culprit."Also, they make no attempt to make the elements of their stories remotely believable.
But a novel isn't a comic book and the worst comic book I've read this year beats this.Jeeze - enough with the negative reviews - gotta post something I like.
Maybe his nearly-white hair can stand on end.Overall, though, Preston and Child's bulbous wet glistening mounds served them fairly well in this Faust-themed novel.
Even though, regrettably, their bulbous wet glistening mounds could not seem to refrain from constantly referencing police captain Laura Hayward's breasts (as happened in earlier novels as well).
Several characters in this book and others referred to them multiple times as a "set of knockers." This is a phrase that emanated from Preston and Child's bulbous wet glistening mounds.
Yet the bulbous wet glistening mounds of the authors, as they sat penis-equipped writing their novels, insisted that Laura Hayward's breasts must be emphasized in every description of Laura Hayward.
Sad znam da sam se realno plašila ali ne iz razloga koje sam pretpostavljala.
Bez obzira na to, "jej!" za Loru.Drugo, očekivala sam da će Pendergast biti istestiran do krajnjih granica jer je i sam slučaj bio drugačiji od ostalih - što se i očekivalo, peti nastavak mora da bude zaokret ako ćeš da držiš pažnju čitalaca - ali ovo što se dešava u "Sumporu" je (ne)prijatno iznenađenje, Pendergastova koncentracija nije na najvišem nivou, spremnost mu je (mislim što se tiče čoveka koji je praktično kategorija ličnosti sama za sebe) skoro falična!
When a famous art critic dies under strange circumstances Pendergast doesn't tale long to start connecting small clues, they form into a cluster of horrifying secrets and involved more people who seem to die in similar fashion before anyone can get to them.
There's a connection between the strange, rich people and the hellish ways in which they perished, but the closer they agent gets to the truth the more obstacles appear on his way, seems that not only is the devil out to get him but the mortals involved in protecting the secrets are as ruthless and vicious as they come.
I read this book a long time ago and really loved it then just as I loved again this time around.
I had forgotten some of what happened in the book, but it slowly started coming back as I re-read it.
If you are not familiar with Douglas Preston and Lincoln Child or you are new to the horror genre, then you need to read these authors and especially their series on Pendergast as you will not be disappointed.
These authors know how to weave a story and pull you into their world!
This book gets a five star rating!
En esta quinta entrega de la serie de Pendergast (y la primera de la trilogía Diógenes) he notado un
It was nice to have the whole story and not an abridged version.
que habilidade com as palavras ele possui.O sargento d'Agosta, ferve mais em pouca água, mas tem uma coragem, uma honestidade e uma lealdade ferrenhas, sendo o melhor parceiro de aventuras.Tinha mesmo de mencionar estas duas personagens, porque, são sem dúvida alguma, duas, que não se esquecem facilmente.Facilmente daria 5 estrelinhas a este livro, assim dou 4,5., isto porque, há partes que para mim se tornam maçudas e esse "defeito" em livros faz-me sempre não conseguir dar as 5, no entanto, não deixo de dizer que este livro é mesmo fantástico e que os autores do mesmo são soberbos.Nesta história temos quatro assassínios e alguns suspeitos, sendo que são reduzidos a dois praticamente no início, e sendo que dentro das possibilidades desses dois, um deles, é assassinado, o que resta, o último suspeito.
Great book!
Solid 4.5 stars.
The duo really has a way of fusing together both great dialogue and descriptive setting with a solid plot.
There were several action scenes that had me on the edge of my seat, reminding me of the greatest action novels I've read - Dan Brown, Max McCoy, Patterson, and even other Preston/Child books.
Great plot, per usual, and plenty of twists and turns to keep you guessing what will happen next.
And the fellas have a knack for knowing just when to switch to another subplot to keep the suspense maxed.
Bravo, gentlemen, bravo.
I already loved the Relic/Pendergast series and reading this book may have sealed my dedication to it ad infinitum with the introduction (sort of) of bad boy, Diogenes.I love the way Pendergast and D'Agosta play off of each other. The main story was enough though - the little sub plots were a little superfluous.
Unlike previous books, the story in Brimstone is richer.
"There wasn't much else to do: magazines were showcases of materialism, television was worse, and books other than the Bible seemed full of profanity, violence, and sex." Because the Bible doesn't have them at all.Brimstone ends with a cliffhanger of sorts.
D'Agosta didn't get to know everything in the end and as far as I am concerned I wish there was a worse punishment.And the last thing, this book is said to be the first in a Diogenes trilogy.
Pendergast's brother, Diogenes, appears only few times and doesn't play a role in Brimstone story other than to be used in the cliffhanger.
It was ok, I liked it more than the first Pendergast novel Relic.
For the most part I like the character Pendergast.
There were references between characters that I didn't know because I haven't read the other books, but it was nothing that caused me to be lost.
This book also alludes to a separate character arc by introducing Pendergast's brother.
There had to be some logical explanation but I couldn't think of how Preston and Child where going to handle it.
I do like the characters, but I felt the story was lacking in this one.
While interesting, they drag the pace.The characters are too often formulaic - e.g., the police captain, a beautiful woman (she isn't just smart and in a good career, she has good looks, too, as the authors are important to note) in an unprecedented position of authority (see also the ocean liner captain in "Wheel of Darkness"); the down-on-his-luck guy turned hero (Vinnie D'Agosta, who somehow turns from overweight loser to sexy and skilled hero within a matter of days).While the characters and events stretch credibility, and the authors' expositions on upper-class culture (painting and opera in this book) can be grating, it is a fun read.
Agent Pendergast is quite a character, a little of James Bond, a little of David Copperfield, and little like a cat with nine lives - which all makes it that much more interesting to read on to discover how he's going to get out of all the scrapes he gets into!
When the autopsy proves the victim has been burned fron the inside of his body the case gets real interesting.
And then, another victim in found, also having been burnt from the inside out.
The mystery has FBI Agent Pendergast working with local police and some mighty unsavory suspects and witnesses.
Uma total perda de tempo. Acho que só o terminei porque fiz uma promessa a mim mesma de que não ia deixar mais livros a meio.Estava à espera de algo parecido com Dan Brown, mas enganei-me. A credibilidade que a parte histórica tinha acabou por ser roubada pelo religioso/espiritual que não me convenceu de todo, tendo ainda a acrescentar que o enredo também não se revelou interessante.
These Pendergast novels are like comfort food - I only partake a few times a year. As always, mystery, thrills, dashes of humor, and the amazing Aloysius X. L. Pendergast - an ever resourceful FBI agent. This is the sixth Pendergast novel and so far, and this one is in my top six of the series. Ha!
My review and the shelves I had placed it on were gone. I have a lot of reviews to replace Goodreads!!!!
