https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/767350.The_Mint
I know not many people are bothered with such effort while reading, and that's why this paragraph is a warning.This book is a very good window into Lawrence's post Great War psyche (hint: it's not all in one piece) and to the RAF life in the 20s.
It's a lively, honest book, directly written from a soldier's point of view with very little mercy or an attempt to beautify anything or anyone.I found it a delightful read and I recommend it to Lawrence fans.
I first knew T.E. Lawrence after I had watched the 1962 film "Lawrence of Arabia"[https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lawrenc...] starring Peter O'Toole some 50 years ago.
However, reading him is not easy since you need to follow his reflections embedded with innumerable military jargons and complex narration uniquely characteristic of Oxford graduates.Before reading this memoir, I think it's a good idea to read his biography at https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/T._E._L...
and, I think, you'd realize why he has since been admiringly respected as one of the great characters famously involved in the Sinai and Palestine campaign and the Arab revolt against the Ottoman Empire during World War I.
This book is evidence of Lawrence's post-traumatic stress, and details an unorthodox means of dealing with it: to plunge himself right back into the fire. The book also has value as an historical record of basic training 100 years ago, but it's the personal observations of his fellow recruits and of the officers who trained them that make it shine. A short and fascinating read.
It's a shame that Lawrence only wrote the two books.
Seven Pillars of Wisdom is a tour de force of adventure and emotion.
The Mint is equally good, although in a different way.Less introspective.
Less adventure (well, there's no war on).
The Mint is Lawrence's attempt to chronicle how the military takes recruits as raw material and mints them into something shiny and new.
It is a very successful attempt.It also serves as a kind of bookend to Seven Pillars, in which Lawrence fell apart from internal stresses.
The Mint is about how Lawrence recreates himself into something whole again.
As an early example of a genre of simple, personal military life, it may not be exceptional, but as a document of recovery it is more interesting.The first chapter reminds me of nothing so much as Shira Lipkin's description of her rape kit, a trauma almost equal to the rape itself though done by supposed allies to better her defense.
It and other incidents provide very quiet reminders of just who has entered the RAF and why, and what he is actually getting out of it.In the end, he has not emerged in the sort of renewed glory that was expected by his contemporaries, but into a contentment, a joy of work and simple being.
Lawrence after Arabia.
Seeking to escape the fame which had grown around him as a result of his adventures in Arabia, adventures in which he no longer took pride, Lawrence joined the Royal airforce as an enlisted man.
This book is based on the journal he kept during his early years as an airman, his basic training and the day to day life of an airman in the RAF in the 1920's.
At once a glimpse of the service during this period and also providing insights into Lawrence's personality which led him to forge a new beginning, escaping from the legend that he had become.
'Everywhere a relationship: no loneliness any more.'
Certainly an interesting read, and an historical document of service in the early Royal Air Force, with the influence of the then recent world war.
This is the later edition released after the departure of A.
It seems that some of the not so subtle references to homosexuality might have been left out of the earlier printings.
There is one reference to his Arabian ventures, when the author states that he removed a picture of himself from an official wall.Not so much a philosophical work, but more a personal account of 1920s RAF service in the ranks.
Rich, vivid and somewhat heartbreaking post-War account of the service years of T.E. Lawrence. A large departure of style from Seven Pillars, somewhat jarring at first how intimate The Mint feels in comparison to Seven Pillars' gradeur. Tender and poetic, Lawrence writes as much about friendship and empathy as he does about sadism and emptiness. The Mint is brilliantly bright and a pleasure to read -- as well as an honor to peek into the diaries of such a great man.
Very, very interesting and (fittingly) idiosyncratic account of Lawrence's attempt to submerge himself in anonymity by serving under a false name as a common airman in the RAF. Bulk of the book covers "Depot" experience, which is bootcamp, in 1922 upon his first enlistment. Pretty much an every-day account of the experience. Then after a gap of three years, he writes intermittently about his life as an airman (mechanic) at a duty station.
An intriguing look into the mind of the man known as Lawrence of Arabia during the time in which he withdrew from the public eye by enlisting incognito into the Royal Air Force as A/c Shaw.The Penultimate chapter covering the relationship between him and his motorcycle is poigniantly ironic, considering his subsequent death in a motorcycle accident.
This is without a doubt a book to be read not so much for the 'what' of it, but for the 'how', i.e., for the language with which T. E. Lawrence, the actual Lawrence of Arabia(!), expresses his thoughts. His every sentence is a poetic jewel. A brilliant read.
A fascinating, first hand, account of life as an ordinary, anonymous, low ranking airman in the 1920's Royal Air Force written by an extraordinary man.
E. Lawrence (aka Lawrence of Arabia) and/or interested in accounts of RAF (Royal Air Force) experiences, I'd recommend this book as almost a necessity to round out your knowledge.
However, I wouldn't really recommend the book if you're not at all familiar with the author; in my opinion, context matters a lot here.The Mint, Lawrence's account of the years during which he joined the RAF under an assumed name, is frequently punctuated with strong language, passing references to the author's past, and the everyday physical goings-on of military life that both repulsed and attracted Lawrence - a juxtaposition that was common throughout his life.
The hours of drill, PT and fatigues test Lawrence's physical and emotional endurance "i was used to walking 50 miles a day in the dessert but this is harsher" and he considers their treatment at times rank cruelty.Still not sure of his reasons for wanting to play such a minor service role ha ing led the Arab Revolt ..he comes to value the cameraderie of his fellow airmen also suffers from acute insomnia ...and seeks solace from moonlit camp walks before dawn and the reveil.
Full of observational details of daily routines he is a hero in secret , determined not to break and just wanting to blend in with the men.
Arguably the best description Ever of the exhilaration of the motorcycle mystique.Read "The Road" for Lawrence's description of a race with a bi-plane[!] Really.quote].
'Once we so fled across the evening light, with the yellow sun on my left, when a huge shadow roared just overhead.
I checked speed an instant to wave: and the slip-stream of my impetus snapped my arm and elbow astern, like a raised flail.
The pilot pointed down the road towards Lincoln.
I sat hard in the saddle, folded back my ears and went away after him, like a dog after a hare.

A unique read, an interesting balance of Lawrence's own perspectives and of social and military history, a blend of his own idealism perhaps and of it being a document of realist history, there's lots of asides into the lives of the other men. And at the centre is the enigma of Lawrence himself his disinterest in the exterior world, his narrative snapshots into his inner recesses, but at the same time perhaps he's disguising himself, maybe onto the Pillars or maybe short stories of Forster.
A strange book, written from a series of letters sent to friends whilst Lawrence was undertaking basic training and first periods of work with the newly formed RAF. Beautiful descriptions of weather, scenery, men with whom he shared accommodation, thoughts and fears. I now feel I have to read Seven Pillars of Wisdom to better get to know this man.
Illuminating.Revealing details which partially explain the fears and motivations of T. E. Lawrence.Worthwhile reading for those interested in Lawrence of Arabia.
He does not tell of the discovery, after a few months, that he was actually Lawrence of Arabia.
What he tells of, as the title suggests, is a shaping or re-moulding process - how he felt himself and the rest of the men being moulded into working parts of a whole.
The third section of The Mint has to do with the time when Lawrence actually worked on planes, instead of the basic training stuff.
This section was written two years after the fact, and the rest (despite protests to the contrary) has clearly been gone over and shaped.
The Mint is effectively a sequel to Seven Pillars of Wisdom; it's a novelized diary of Lawrence's attempt to escape fame and bad memories, and to find a new life by joining the Royal Air Force. Biographically, it was very interesting, and his descriptions of R.A.F. life were vivid and, I'm sure, true to life. With that, there was a lot of vulgar language and profanity (from L.'s peers and superiors, not from him). I would say it is useful as a portrait of Lawrence post-Arabia, or a primary source for R.A.F. history, not necessarily recommended otherwise.
Lawrence shares honest, insightful experiences during his time in the RAF recruit depot relating to responsibility, command, fear & happiness. L discusses deep, difficult problems in a setting designed to be ridiculous and nonsensical. The generalities of life in a recruit depot, and military life in general, must largely remain static, even over centuries as the specifics change. I enjoyed his thoughts connecting a specific anecdote to a very broad, common concept.
Lawrence in this Book called the Mint, is narrating his experience as a Military person who served in the Royal Air Forces, In fact this book has fascinated me especially with the methods that Lawrence uses to let live the events in their real time, It was a nice initiation from Lawrence to show up his Literary skills.
Read in Danish translation: Mønten : en dagbog fra Royal Air Force's rekrutlejr mellem august og december 1922 samt senere optegnelser af rekrut 352087 Ross, published back in 1956, Schønberg, translated by Michael Tejn,
The book, by Lawrence of Arabia is not too interesting. It is about his life after the revolt in the desert or 1917 and 1918.
What a life. Lawrence is what you hope men to be.
