https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/32275.River_Out_of_Eden
This book takes about 30 minutes to read, but is probably the best book I've read when it comes to shooting down morons who believe in stupid shit.
On top of giving ammo to those of us who do come in contact with the less scientifically enlightened among us (snobbery, anyone?), he manages to put a lot of things into very good perspective.
While this book is about DNA and life, it's also about the fact that there's a HUGE difference between the life of the individual and the life of the species, and just how important it is that we understand this as we come to control our own genome.Seriously, don't judge this book by its size (or its stupid-ass, kissing fish cover): It's heavy but quick, and will do your brain good.
There are some good examples in this book, in addition to some good science-fiction scenarios that were enjoyable and original, but I found it hurrying from topic to topic without much depth. There's nothing special here that can't be found in Dawkins' other book. If you still didn't read The Blind Watchmaker, or better still The Ancestor's Tale, I would suggest you opt for them as the topics he is talking about in this book are better treated in in the others and in the case of The Ancestor's Tale, they are more up to date.
It's one of several tragic anecdotes used to make an important point, and the kind of jolt that Dawkins does best.
If you have already read several other Dawkins' titles - The Selfish Gene, The Blind Watchmaker, etc - then you may find this adds little to what you already know.
Not too long and not too lumbered with detail, it takes the reader through genes, DNA and natural selection - via African Eve and blindfolded bees - in a beautifully-written account peppered with anecdotes and various mind-boggling facts and figures that will explain just enough to inspire you to read more.
In person, Richard Dawkins can seem defensive, arrogant: chippy.
His love of, and fascination with, the mechanics of the natural world is exhilarating and a joy to read.
Complexities melt away, leaving a view of the world which is infinitely more beautiful, mysterious and astonishing than that propounded by any of his innumerable detractors.I defy any rational person to read his fiercely funny analysis of Intelligent Design and its fallacies (deaf turkeys who dilligently slay their own young because they cannot hear the sound that makes them recognise the chicks as their own, for instance) and not be convinced: they must simply not want to know.
This was okay, but it felt like a simplified version of his other work. A good place to start, but maybe one to skip over if you've read The Selfish Gene or The Blind Watchmaker: Why the Evidence of Evolution Reveals a Universe Without Design.
I didn't connect with the river analogy and also felt that the "greatest show on earth" and some of his other works were much stronger but this was still enjoyable.
Further investigation into this perplexing resistance to facts revealed they were all motivated by religion, which caused Dawkins to realize that one of the major problems with our society was that it was largely under a collective delusion that prevented them from having the same appreciation for the world that Dawkins wished to impress upon them, hence: The God Delusion.
The God Delusion is meant to weaken the grip, and The Greatest Show on Earth is meant to explain the very basic tenets of evolution as well as dispel some of the most common misconceptions and weak arguments against it.His earlier books, however, were written for a different kind of audience.
It flows like a river through us (and all creatures) and we are merely the banks (of the river) that house the DNA for its continuation into next generation, and the next (or not).I have read many of Dawkins' books and articles and this is a winner!
If you're interested in learning exactly what Dawkins means by "The Selfish Gene" or the DNA river - this is the read & it's a quicky!
Now, I get why he was lead to the next step: memes.A fun read about the river of DNA that flows in all of us!
I thought this book elegant.
The writing is elegant.
Dawkins's use of analogy and example to explain the complexities of evolution is elegant.
He glides from idea to idea as elegantly as dance.
I only wish I had more background.
Dawkins' writing here isn't overbearingly technical.
Still, not being a strong swimmer in science, I found myself at times over my head in deep pools of DNA and replicator genes and had to flail a bit before finding a toehold on some sandbar of familiar detail.
To me his writing seemed clear, concise--impressively so--and even tinged with humor.
Mostly Dawkins and I were good companions, Huck and Jim. I'm glad I made the journey.
I got this book for an english class. Richard Dawkins really bugs me. His view is that people who are religious are uneducated and delusional - hence his newest book "The God Delusion".
Through the deceptively simple metaphor of a river of genetic information, coursing through time, Dawkins guides us on an incisive explanation of life. It's far more inspiring and intellectually satisfying than any mythological Eden.Some Dawkins books can be a challenging read but, aside from a somewhat dull section on sex ratios (studied them in university and never found the subject interesting) this is a book that wastes no time. Short and insightful.
"River out of Eden" (1995г.) е най-кратката сред книгите на Докинс и обсъжда теми, разгледани в излезлите преди нея: "Себичният ген", "The Extended Phenotype" и "The Blind Watchmaker": земните и (хипотетичните) извънземни репликатори, основни етапи в еволюцията на живота, наследствеността, видообразуването, митохондриалната Ева, кумулативната природа на естествения отбор и други ключови моменти от понеслата се във времето информационна река, наречена ДНК.
Every now and then it's good to read about evolution to be in wonder yet again of nature and the universe that we live in...
Deasemenea, citită fără un minim de cunoștințe de biologie moleculară sau genetică, cartea poate părea de domeniul SF (în cel mai bun caz).
Richard Dawkins reușește să transpună știința greoaie intr-o scriere ceva mai ușor de digerat și ilustrează atât principiile Darwinismului cât și ideile ce se opun acestuia prin exemple din diverse domenii (inginerie, telefonie, astronomie) dar și din viața de zi cu zi.
Fiind totuși o scriere cu substrat științific, consider că unele expresii si comparații reușesc sa atingă și o anumită latură beletristică: transmiterea genelor de-a lungul generațiilor asemenea unu râu ce curge prin timp sau expresii precum ,,ADN-ul nici nu ştie, nici nu-şi face griji.
All earthly living things are certainly descended from a single ancestor.”Some of my highlights from the book:- It is tempting to think that when ancestors did successful things, the genes they passed on to their children were, as a result, upgraded relative to the genes they had received from their parents.
It is not success that makes good genes.- There are now perhaps thirty million branches to the river of DNA, for that is an estimate of the number of species on earth.
Yet the genetic code is in fact literally identical in all animals, plants and bacteria that have ever been looked at.
Esse livro foi comprado em 1998, nos rastro de The Selfish Gene, que lemos e discutimos na época, na University of Florida.
E só agora fui ler o livro.
Dawkins é um zoólogo evolucionista e declaradamente ateu, seus livros e artigos são muito bem fundamentados.
Ele não apela para argumentos fora da razão, como por exemplo os argumentos religiosos ou baseados em sentimentos.
O livro vai direto ao ponto, esclarece muito bem a questão da evolução, mutação genética, e correlatos, mal entendida pela maioria esmagadora das pessoas.
Tudo em poucas páginas muito bem escritas e encadeadas.
Vale a leitura, que também é divertida.
I like how the author goes on tangents and tells the reader about interesting animal behaviors.
There are so many perspectives offered in this book, the author explains the work of many others.
It gets the reader interested in biology.
It explains content in an easy to understand way while connecting it to real life.
The book wasn't based on any topic more central than biology.
The book is written in a way in which it makes the reader feel almost as though he/she's just having a conversation with the author.I would strongly recommend this to anyone who has the slightest interest in science of any kind.
I am not persuaded that whatever is true of our bodies exists solely to replicate our DNA in our offspring.
Dawkins has persuaded me that this is the overwhelming trend and he admits that in the past there are been evolutionary dead ends that ended with the deaths of people with ineffective genes/traits, but if there could be ineffective genes then, there can be ineffective genes now.
I do wish that Dawkins could make this adjustment in his approach, or if he agrees with these statements, that he would make it obvious in his books.Overall, however, this book does quite a good job explaining the origins and nature of life on earth, from the most sophisticated mammals and birds to the simplest fungus.
Este un exemplu bun pentru a descrie evoluţia.
Nu dă niciun exemplu la fel de puternic pentru a descrie evoluţia grupelor filogenetice.
[Din simplu motiv că nu există un asemenea exemplu!:] Tot ceea ce spune este că râul de gene, în timp, va curge prin altfel de corpuri decât cele de veveriţe.
Dawkins spune că indivizii unei specii au aceleaşi gene care se înţeleg bine între ele, aceasta fiind de fapt acel râul de ADN care curge prin istorie, prin timp.
Thực sự, so với "Bảy nàng con gái của Eva" hay một số tác phẩm Việt Nam như "Cơ thể người thế giới kì diệu và bí ẩn", cuốn sách là một bước lùi nếu xét trên cách hành văn chuyển tải ý tưởng.Dù sao, cũng nhờ cuốn sách mà chúng ta biết được một số khái niệm, mà từ đó kích thích tìm hiểu sâu hơn, như điệu của của loài ong, sinh học phân tử, và một mặt nào đó, dân số học.
Cũng nhờ cuốn này, tôi biết được 1 từ hay là "Frisson of Schadenfreude".
RIVER OUT OF EDEN: A Darwinian View of life.
****.Dawkins again offers different facts and scenarios for the creation and evolution of life using Darwinian principles.
Occasionally, after a series of sentences that make perfect sense, and that lead to an obvious paragraph of clear meaning, he proposes a solution that summarizes all of his critical thinking that I simply do not understand.
After re-reading his thinking, it gets clearer, but I am still left with an unsatisfied feeling that I have been excluded from his scientific reasoning.
Again, I’m sure I missed some of the reasoning.
Well, nobody’s perfect.
A Digital DNA river runs into the future. It has extremely high (but not perfect) replication fidelity, and may bifurcate, giving rise to new species. Evolution and biology is (again) beautifully explained by Dawkins. Some of the points I found interesting in the book: 1. Living organisms evoke a strong illusion of design, which makes sense at first glance. But science (often counter-intuitive) shows otherwise. The key to understand that is to imagine gradual change over long span of time , and
A Digital DNA river runs into the future.
Evolution and biology is (again) beautifully explained by Dawkins.
Some of the points I found interesting in the book: 1.
The key to understand that is to imagine gradual change over long span of time , and you have evolution by natural selection ( Non random selection of random mutations).2.
We have a natural tendency to evaluate all natural phenomenons from a human point of view, like searching a purpose or an ultimate utility in everything.
I refreshed my knowledge about the mitochondrial DNA which takes us back to our mitochondrial EVE.
Mostly interesting, but I also knew a lot that he covered.
Two were not that interesting to me.
(He focused on that as well as a letter he received about how an orchid is shaped just so that a male wasp will try to screw it---right down to making the wasp pheremones!) Also interesting was the one about how the number of males and females of most species are about equally dispersed, even though sometimes a small percentage of the males have a large percentage of the offspring---so why would a species waste energy on all those bachelors who aren't going to have kids?
Dawkin's shortest book is a concentrated study of the genetic inheritance and progressive genetic development of organic life forms.
This book was remarkably easier to follow than his first book and shows much more of his personality, enthusiasm and passion for biology.
From honeybee dances to mitochondrial genetic lineage to yet another crushing defeat of the creationist's "complexity of the eyeball" argument, he teaches evolutionary biology (particularly in this book of a genetic focus) in a way that is easy to follow and retain.
This is a "big picture" book of Dawkins's views on evolution. There is not a lot of depth, maybe not enough in some cases, but there are plenty of examples illustrating evolutionary developmental technique and purpose, the callousness of nature's approach to life's advances, and various theories on DNA and gene self replication. It's a good, short read and may well lead me to more of Dawkins's science oriented texts.
I got a bit lost at the beginning, and totally sidetracked by digital vs analogue, but that led to some interesting discussions with hubby, who has no problems understanding that kind of thing. Chapter 2 was much more interesting to me. I had no idea that so much had been found out about the honeybee dance and I'd like to read more about it. I heart Richard Dawkins. Will have to read his latest soon.
Thực ra là 3.25/5. Nếu ngày xưa chịu khó học môn Sinh thì có lẽ giờ mình sẽ có thể cảm nhận cuốn này tốt hơn, nhưng quả thật nó quá khó xơi, mình chỉ thấm được khoảng 75% là cùng. Đáng tiếc, đáng tiếc.Bộ đôi dịch giả Ngô Toàn và Mai Hiên đã cố gắng làm cuốn này dễ đọc hết mức có thể. Khốn nạn là với mình thì còn quá nhiều chỗ khó hiểu TTvTT
Tác giả quá liều lĩnh khi:- Giải thích kiến thức sinh học di truyền bằng một kiến thức một ngành khoa học khác: Điện tử viễn thông.- Đưa khá nhiều vấn đề với quá nhiều thuật ngữ chuyên mônP/s: Dòng sông trôi khuất địa đàng: dòng sông ở đây là dòng sông di truyền ADN, địa đàng ám chỉ về tổ tiên Adam và Eva.
I can't say I understood 100% of this book, but I enjoyed this closer look at and exploration of Darwinism, DNA, and natural selection. I particularly enjoyed all the interesting tidbits about different animals that I learned along the way. Nature is fascinating!
Classic, but still so good. :)It was interesting picking this one up again after so many years away.
