https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/336787.Crimson_Roses
I've had a small collection of Grace Livingston Hill books on my shelf my whole life (they were my grandmother's). The great American novel this isn't, but it's sweet and a pleasant break from 2015 to look back 100 years. Is the main character, in the end, "rescued" by a man? Yes. But she's also strong, independent, values-driven, and determined to do whatever it takes to live the life she wants - and that doesn't include chasing a man. My kind of girl!
Despite knowing their father's wishes that Marion stay in the city and complete her education, Tom wants to sell the city house and move to a farm in the country where his wife will be happy and his children will have plenty of room.
And like the fairy tale, there is a happy ending in store.To modern sensibilities it may seem like Marion is a meek little doormat--but she is actually a very strong young woman who sticks to her beliefs and convictions and also shows determination to make the life she wants long before the "wealthy savior" comes along to take her out of poverty.
Does anyone today have such a longing, such a desire for the finer things?
You see, I understand this premise only too well.
When I was a student, I scraped together what funds I could so that I could have season tickets to the Milwaukee Symphony Orchestra.
I sat in the highest seats alone, just so I could enjoy the music, the atmosphere, the culture.
Does anyone today do that?
And imagine...finding a single red rose waiting for you at your seat each time you arrive to hear the music...!
Standard Grace Livingston Hill fare. Saintly, beautiful heroine is beset by comically villainous foes who seek to destroy her. She bears her troubles with angelic resignation (literally angelic; no human would react that way) and is eventually rewarded for her virtue beyond her wildest imaginings. These books are like a spoonful of whipped cream. Pleasurable, but need some substance to offset the cloying sweetness.
What a darling bit of old-fashioned romance! What a sweetly tender place to rest your heart for a while, a place without a drop of cynicism! Grace Livingston Hill's novels have this way of touching me and inspiring me with their most sincere sweetness and their high ideals. ^_^
My all-time favorite Christian romance. This is Hill at her best.
Good...but not what I've come to expect from this author.
I read this when I was 14 and loved every minute of it. Recently a good friend reminded me about it and that I shared it with her and how much she loved it. It’s a classic poor girl is saved by a rich man kind of love story but this girl is not desperate. She is not searching and feeling sorry for herself, she is living life to the fullest as she is able and someone see’s the vitality in her and seeks her out. 🌹
I liked this book pretty well, but some of the characters made me mad. I liked the way the love styory developed.
Marion was a good character, very kind and a tad naive but still fun and interesting to read about. The romance was sweet and I enjoyed that part quite a bit. I haven't read many of this author's books but I definitely liked this one.
Grace Livingston Hill in her new book, “Crimson Roses” Book Six in the Love Endures series published by Barbour Publishing, Inc. takes us into the life of Marion Warren.From the back cover: “There it lay in all its dusky majesty.
Her rose!”When Marion Warren bought herself a season ticket to the symphony, she expected to bring a spark of new life into her world of drab routine.
Each night a mysterious crimson rose rests on her seat with no sign of who left it—except perhaps the young man Marion saw watching her on opening night.As the mystery of the roses looms large, wealthy Jefferson Lyman whisks into Marion’s world, bringing with him a deepening love for Marion–and the jealousy of socialite Isabel Cresson.
Most of these books end with a beautiful wedding, but here we are allowed to see a bit of the interaction of the new couple and be assured that they will be happy.One question that was nagging me throughout this book: The sainted father was ill for a couple of years and daughter Marion was caring for him.
After his death, we see the young woman attending church for the first time in several years.
But she "musters her wits," finds employment and a place to live, and is even able to save for a concert series.
She is flabbergasted when a single rose appears on her seat at the concerts.
Is romance in the cards for Marion?
The novel is sentimental and predictable, but a gently entertaining story for an undemanding romance reader.
I do like to read books in which a character's faith is taken for granted and not crucial to the plot (just as it often is in real life)--a non-apocalyptic Christian novel.
A very sweet little romance although the heroine is a little more naïve than I prefer.
The villains are often so rotten and trying, it is delightful to see them routed by either the supernatural in believable ways.
Grace's novels have both great heroines\heroes AND great villains!
I am always inspired by Grace's books to hold true to my own standards, even after making terrible mistakes, to love my enemies, to persevere, to pray and to creatively use my blessings to bless other people in order to point the way to our incredible God and precious Savior.Her books have me the hope and strength to stay open for my own great love story to take place, which I am grateful to God for - every single day.
I found this to be a charming little book, even if it was a little predictable. Yes, it is dated & old-fashioned, you can certainly tell it was written in the 1920's rather than a modern writer trying to recapture those times. For example, the characters often being referred to as "the girl" & "the man" rather than by name but for me that just adds to it's appeal. A sweet "romantic-trip-back-in-time".
This is a sweet, classic romance, with an overriding theme of Christianity. The characters are well written, even if the book is somewhat light on substance. I like that the main character is willing to risk her family's ire to live the life she wants.
A Grace Livingston Hill story is always a lesson in how unselfish love can be. The characters are overly good and sweet to a degree, but you can still see the humanity shine through.
Her stories like these always seemed to me to be gently chiding towards Christians too caught up in ideas of class and position.
Marion's dream has always been to continue her education and she knows she will not be able to do that if she lives in the country.
Marion is able to scrape together enough money to buy her first season concert ticket.
On her first night to attend she finds a single crimson rose in her chair.
When nobody comes to claim the rose she is content to take it home and dream about the giver(perhaps an older woman who somehow knew that this lonely girl needed something beautiful in her life).
Each night throughout the season that she is at a concert there is a single crimson rose in her seat.
There, on her seat, she finds a beautiful red rose.
After the concert is over and no one claims the rose, Marion takes it home with her and loves it, even saving the petals.Between her work, she attends church and a few church functions, helping wash dishes.
Her former schoolmate, Isabel Cresson, despises Marion and her old-fashioned ways, making things difficult for Marion.At the next concert Marion attends, there is another red rose in her seat!
Invited by Jefferson to a wonderful concert, she decides she must tell him of her poor and lowly standing.
I can't remember when I read this book, but I don't think I was much older than 12.
It was one of the first "romances" I read.
I found the leaving of these roses on the heroine's seat at the concert hall so very sweet and romantic.
Maybe that's why I wanted to go to classical concert music shortly after this.
I was so happy to get a subscription to our city's symphony orchestra's concerts from my grandmother.
But alas, no roses, though I did meet an elderly lady composer there.
Until then, I hadn't realized that there were actually women composing.
If I could make a movie out of any of the books I've read, it would be this sweet little novel! My mom introduced me to this book- we have a reeally old copy of it. Written in 1928, it's about a lonely girl named Marion who moves to the city and to add a little excitement to her life, she begins attending the symphony. To her surprise, she finds a crimson rose waiting in her seat each night. Who could the mysterious admirer be? A very old-fashioned romance with religious tones.
It was good light reading. I enjoyed the ending because it wasn't as abrupt as romance books usually are. The love of books, art, music, and roses(of course) that the heroine had made the book more appealing to me. However, at times she did and thought things that defied all reason, and that was exasperating. Overall though, it was a pleasant read.
Read this way back in middle school (nearly 20 years ago, yikes!) excited to read it again! :)Well, it wasn't quite as magical as I remembered it, but it's a sweet story and I'm glad I read it again... the leaving of the roses in the concert hall was probably the first stirring of romance I ever felt... something that has stayed with me and probably alsays will!
I am thrilled to have Grace Livingston Hill books back in print. I love her books and this was just as good as all the rest that I have read. God's love doesn't have social barriers. It is refreshing to read about ladies who have a strong faith in God even in difficult circumstances
A great book. Lots of great insight into the inner workings of the characters minds. Lots of interesting period detail but a good read in any era. Nice suspense and romance. well developed characters and plot.
And last but not least, man with wealth from unspecified sources marries shop girl.(After saving her from flappers and other wicked women who paint, bob their hair, expose their knees, and use modern slang.)
Very nice book, but not for the ones who do not appreciate an old-fashioned novel. (Hint: if you don't like Jane Austen, you will not like this.) I wish young women would read this instead of the filth teachers and librarians are pushing on to them nowadays.
** This is just a QUICK REVIEW of my thoughts on the book **Got this from the library and flicked through reading pages here and there, but it seemed far too boring to actually read so I sent it right back.
