https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3700085-marcelo-in-the-real-world
it is, after all, me...i understand why writers like carl hiaasen and james patterson and them are now writing books for younger readers, after having already established themselves as writers of adult fiction with considerable staying power.
for teens, it is something of an intellectual triumph to cross over into the growed-up section of the library or bookstore, but many adults scoff at reading books for children.
it is sweet and very naturally written; a real gem of a teen fiction book that i would never have read except for this class.thanks, grad school!oh, and another thing!
It's a quiet book, thanks to the subdued narration style on Marcelo's part, but it's a good one.
In preparation, he has Marcelo get a summer job at his law office -- a crash course in the real world.
As someone who knows a handful of people very like Marcelo -- people with autistic tendencies more than anything else -- I found this book very true and earnest and sweet.
I definitely have been recommending this quiet book to all the introverts in my life.
***wondering why all my reviews are five stars?
Knowing that he is often perceived to be mentally challenged, Marcelo prefers to stay close to the circle of his friends and people who know that there is nothing wrong with him intellectually.
He wants his son to challenge himself, to learn how to function in the "real world" better, to be prepared for the life outside Patterson's walls.
Along the way he meets people who help him to get a better understanding of what is good and evil, what is love and, most importantly, that being in the "real world" is as much satisfying as it is painful.The only reason I knocked down 1 star from my rating was that some parts felt a little slow or too introspective, but overall Marcelo In The Real World is a remarkable YA adult novel.
There's a lot of inherent conflict and story in there, and for the most part, the book delivers.I actually really loved reading about his work at the office, as I've been exactly where Marcelo was: autistic teenager brought into the office because of her personal connection with the boss who goes from simple copying to much more complex tasks.
I do think this book does a lot of things right, including about the autism: it never portrays Marcelo as ill or wrong; it respects his point of view and reactions; it doesn't demonize or infantilize his experiences at his school; he makes genuine friends and connections; he has hobbies and interests; he is very aware of his privilege as being able to function in a way that's somewhat acceptable to society at large, unlike many of his classmates; et cetera.
He has been diagnosed with an impairment similar to autism, but higher-functioning - he can process things but it takes him time, and he is able to adapt to social situations through learning and experience.
His father decides to have Marcelo work in the mail room of his law firm for the summer, giving him a taste of the real world.
There are many words to describe what Stork has achieved created with Marcelo in the Real World: poignant, profound, glorious...
Thought-provoking, inspiring, and even humorous at times, readers will cheer for Marcelo throughout this book and beyond it.Want to read more of my reviews?
This book is so good I may have to take a break from reading--anything else wouldn't measure up. It's so good I'm consumed with despair that I will never write anything as beautiful or as important. It's so good I can't review it properly--any words I might choose wouldn't do it justice.
I really loved the characters/writing, but the plot?
I loved how Marcelo though...his problem solving, the way he interacted with people.
She never got riled, even though Marcelo would be a very hard person to relate to and live with.
Well, first off, Marcello's parents were "Arturo" and "Aurora" and I don't know about you, but I got them confused a LOT.
And then  Marcelo's dad was a real straight-down-the-line dude who drove me CRAZY.
He wanted Marcelo to "enter the real world".
He wants Marcelo to be "in the real world".
I was sad about that, because I really love musical books.
Marcelo is looking forward to a summer of working as a stable boy at Paterson, a school for kids with special needs, when his father tells him that he must get out of his comfort zone and join the "real world" or else he won't be able to go to Paterson for his senior year.
The real world in this case is his father's law firm's mailroom where Marcelo will have to learn how to get along with Jasmine, his beautiful and quirky boss, complete tasks on time, and wade the truth out of all the corporate muck.I was a tad disappointed in this book.
I loved Marcelo.
The struggles he faced as a not so normal guy in the real world were truly touching.
I can't say the same for other characters, the only likable character we actually get to know being Marcelo's co-worker Jasmine.
There's nothing much to say about the plot of the book, given that it is what the title suggests.
Marcelo in the real world, away from his comfort zone - how he struggles, makes mistakes and learns.One of of the many things I looked forward to in this book was the music aspect.
Marcelo hears music.
Anyhow, it was a pretty good book.
he's naive in the way that makes you wonder how the hell you turned out so bitter and question why the world can't be as simple or straightforward as someone like marcelo sees it.
many of the people marcelo encounters at the law firm treat him like crap or act as though he's stupid.
marcelo was an endearing literary character, i was glad i had the opportunity to meet.his thoughts on religion, his internal music, various other opinion pieces and bible passages he discussed with the rabbi were the most enjoyable for me to read about.
The plot was sort of intriguing but I thought kind of trashy too.Oh, I am not sure I like this book.
A goodreads friend gave me a copy recently and while I do enjoy the interesting writing style (the author writes from the point of view of a 17 year old boy with Asperger's who refers to himself and his parents in the 3rd person- strange but interesting) I'm not sure I like the story line at all.
I liked that book- not sure of this one..
Marcelo in the Real World is that kind of book.It's no secret that I love fantasy, but I try to read outside of the genre as well.
His father decides that for the summer Marcelo needs to move outside of his comfort zone and so Marcelo goes to work in the real world: at his father's law firm.
But neither of them is prepared for what that means.In the hands of another author, this story could end up being a sentimental tear-jerker.
The way he approaches these discoveries is what makes this story unique.There is so much to love about this book.
Marcelo in the Real World is Francisco X.
Approximate Interest Level/Reading Level: High SchoolFormat: Chapter BookAwards: ALA Best Book for Young Adults (2010), ALA Top Ten Best Books for Young Adults (2010)At the insistence of his father, Marcelo, a male adolescent with a condition resembling Asperger’s Syndrome, is forced to participate in the “real world” by working at his father’s law firm over the summer.
The typical behaviors of autism, accompanied by atypical introspection and insight, leads Marcelo into the position of contemplating a moral judgement that could ruin his father's law firm.It may be my special education background, but I did not really like this book.
This is the best YA book I've read in a long, long time. It's the kind of book that makes me sad that the majority of the genre is filled with gimmicks and pandering, because it's always had the potential to be so much more. This book hit a bit close to home for me, but even if you're not compelled by the same moral issues that Marcelo is, I still think this is just a wonderful book that you'll probably enjoy.
http://lucy-lillianne.blogspot.cz/201...
Εξ αρχής δεν είχα υψηλές προσδοκίες από το συγκεκριμένο βιβλίο αφού ο λόγος που το πήρα για να το δι
"Her belief is in her deeds." I'm paraphrasing, but one of the characters says this about Marcelo's mother when he worries about her possible loss of faith.
Well, the real world does change Marcelo forever...he learns so much over the summer working in the mail room of his father's law firm.
This is a character who will live in my heart...Marcelo joins the real world, but he learns our belief is in our deeds; he sees through their deeds into the hearts of the people he comes in contact with.
This book is good but not for me Okay here I goHis father is plain mean like he did understand him W
A deal is reached: if Marcelo works for his father this summer--in the mail room of the law firm--and succeeds at it--follows the rules of the business world, of the so-called real world, then Marcelo can choose for himself where to complete his schooling.So it begins.
Marcelo keeps a notebook with him in which he writes down things he needs to know or wants to remember.Here is a scene with his father on their first day going into work together: "I want you to participate in the day-to-day workaday world, my world, and your world too now.
Nifty huh?So far he's been used to attending a school called Paterson for special needs students, but now his lawyer father, Arturo, wants him to get out and experience the "real world" and if he can follow the "rules" he will go to Oak Ridge High School after the summer, which of course Marcelo does NOT want to do because he believes he will not fit in with the other students, but his father insist he work during the summer.This is how he ends up working at his father's law firm in the mail room, alongside Jasmine and her beautiful azure eyes.Unfortunately Marcelo has to deal with quite a few problems:-the a-holes he has to work with (so rude and cruel they can be!)-the difficult decisions he keeps coming across-the new discoveries he makes-how to help the girl in a picture he found in a box marked "trash"-what to do about one of the a-holes, Wedell who has "things" in mind about Jasmine-figure out why he can't hear the IM anymoreReading in Marcelo's POV was incredible.
Marcelo in the Real World is the story of a teenager with Asperger's Syndrome who has spent his life attending a private school for kids with mental and physical disabilities.
At the beginning of the book, we learn that Marcelo’s father wants him to spend a summer, and possibly next school year in “the real world” ~ working and interacting with people outside of his protected comfort zone.
In fact, I would have loved for Marcelo to have interacted with more people like Arturo period ~ as it was, Marcelo’s journey, while difficult, was so much easier than one would imagine.
Ale prosím vás, dělám si srandu, budu vás přesvědčovat trochu víc.Stejně si jí ale nakonec přečtete, protože tohle je Marcelo a jemu jen tak někdo neodolá…Takže, Marcelo ve skutečném světě je naprosto jedinečná a neobyčejná kniha, která vás naprosto překvapí a chytí už od první stránky.
Příběh je zkrátka obyčejný, ale díky autorovu skvělému psacímu umu a dokonalosti, s jakou vykreslil všechny hrdiny a s jakou péčí vytvořil Marcela, se dostává kniha na úplně jinou úroveň a stává se něčím naprosto úžasným.Marcelo ve skutečném světě je kniha plných úžasných myšlenek a její lehké proudění možná nebude po chuti milovníkovi pořádné akce.
This was a touching story that defies categorization: part family story, part love story, part crime story. What will stick with me is the beauty of Marcelo's gentle spirit and his insightful interpretations of the "real world."
Unique, important, insightful, amazing. I can't level enough praise on it. One of the best novels I've read in the last 5 years.
“The right note sounds right and the wrong note sounds wrong.”This is a great coming of age story about an impaired boy named Marcelo.
The author did a great job with the characters, especially Marcelo and Jasmine whom I liked most.
The bad characters were bad and the good ones good.I also found the ending to be very predictable.
This is very common with contemporary novels, but I just would have hoped for a little bit more, even though I liked the story in general.I can’t say a lot about the accuracy when it comes to the description of Marcelo’s impairment, because I’m not familiar with the topic.
Where I got the book: my local library.Marcelo is 17 and has Asperger Syndrome, which means he's on the high-functioning end of the autism spectrum.
All Marcelo wants to do is to stay at his private special school, where he's learned to like who he is and has developed an interest in training ponies.
But his lawyer father wants Marcelo to go to the local public high school next year.
Marcelo, who agrees really (I think) because he loves his father and wants to make him proud, gets to take a much closer look at his father's work than his father might like, and develops a kind of relationship with his co-worker Jasmine.Well, it's inevitable that I started out by comparing this YA novel to 
The combination of a regular coming-of-age story with a 'Asperger's is the closest to a description of my condition' one with a romance with a legal-mystery with a spiritual coming-of-age was a lot for one book, and I thought it left some of the elements which were resolved wonderfully in one sphere very much less so in another.
The spiritual and the regular coming-of-age elements worked beautifully together for example, but Marcelo's slower than 'normal' development and slower than 'normal' ability to figure things out left me more unhappy with the romantic resolution.
A problem I have when either reading an ebook (my autocorrect wants to change this to snook!) or listening to an audio book is that I have no real sense of where I am in the story.
With Marcelo, I kept thinking, okay now it's near the end but it never was.
Okay, at some point it was because the book did end, but I guess this would mean I thought the book was too long.
And I loved the discussions Marcelo had with the rabbi.
I want a rabbi like that to help me sort out all the big questions in life.
Ok, a ya book with an autistic protag.
But then it became a ya book with an autistic protag about sexual objectification.
Then, a ya book with an autistic protag about negotiating religious beliefs against lived experience.
And then, ya book with autistic protag negotiates right notes vs wrong notes, asexuality, loyalty, trash-talking demented farmers and their kin.
This book excels at breaking down rationalization to its key elements, guiding inexperienced readers to deduce and develop insight as Marcelo illustrates through his own machinations.
In the end, it doesn't matter what you know or understand about autism at all -- this is a how-to-be-a-grown-up book that even grown-ups might learn from.
Wow. So many great things to say about this one.
I loved its treatment of various topics- religion, intelligence, ethics, desire, "rules" we play by, love, understanding people, communication, safety, forgiveness, anger, sex and what it means to be kind.
I want to meet Marcelo and wish the best for him.
I want him to get the girl and live peacefully, "with waters green, quiet and deep..." in Vermont.
I just remembered the TED talk about storycorps by Isay and couldn't help but see Sarah and Josh Littman's relationship which seemed very similar to Aurora and Marcelo.
It made me miss the stars and hope to find a quiet spot to think and remember.
