https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/156558.Knitting_Without_Tears
I wish it weren't so niche, actually - I think KWT has an awful lot to recommend it, and not just to knitters.I have read Knitting Without Tears cover-to-cover twice in the four-ish years since I got my own copy of it.
We may, these days, have not very much idea about what a woman in 17th century Britain was doing with her day-to-day, but I don't wonder that knitters might know a little bit more than most people."Good rigid needles," she notes, about aluminium knitting needles.

Her insistence that you do NOT have to follow a pattern exactly to get good results was a bit stunning to me.
But it's worked, because I have branched out into putting my own "designs" together.
It doesn't work for everyone, but I love it.
She often provides what she calls "pithy directions" at the end of a chapter that are more like traditional pattern instructions.
When you've made the sweater, you understand how it goes together, how your specific measurements affect the fit, and many other things that have given me greater confidence to put my own things together.
"Most people have an obsession; mine is knitting." Oh, Elizabeth. I adore thee. I like to think that we would have been friends. At the very least we would have shared the horror that is pearling. Tee hee.Note: This is not a "how-to" knit book. It is more of a conversation about knitting (with guidance and assurances that there is no right or wrong way to knit). Be creative, go with your own concepts, AND be your own boss of knitting!
This is the book that will help you not give a shit.
And when I'm brave enough to try my own sweater pattern, I will certainly try her percentage method to try and create the right fit.
I learned knitting the American/British method, which was slow and cumbersome.
So I took up crochet instead, then went back to knitting because I don't like the way crochet looks on garments.
I'm not sure who originated this method, but I learned it from stitchdiva.com (Jennifer Hanson).
I'm also a huge fan of magic loop knitting, which means I don't have to be impressed by EZ's claim to have fit 1,000 stitches on a 24" circular.
This is a very simple book which talks about Elizabeth Zimmermann's experiences with knitting and her knitting patterns. It's an amazingly simple book (the patterns are written descriptively, and often take only a few paragraphs), but it has inspired more knitters than any other I know.Not only does it give some very good, very basic, instruction, it seems to be able to give knitters the confidence to try new things, to experiment, and to make mistakes.
I flipped through this after finishing The Gun Seller. And I realized the writing was familiar.This is how I write when I am condescending to someone. I use my most pretentious voice, and when reading it back, I can see my nose stuck firmly in the air.Yeah. No thanks.
Elizabeth Zimmerman is THE knitting guru. No nonsense here. Absolute classic and a total must-have if you ever intend to pick up needles.
I just picked knitting up again after many years and immediately got this book out and reread it for the dozenth time. At some time or another I made just about every one of her projects. She's delightful to read and filled with deep wisdom about craft and creativity, and she has -- for me -- answered the age-old question of why people wear the things they do: because it makes them feel cute.
Fun Read! Not your average knitting book.
I knew it was a somewhat older book, and I had always assumed that it must be just chock-full of all the complicated techniques that advanced knitters know.
It's because Zimmerman instills in one the idea that there is more than one way to knit something, and that it should be fun and relaxing and NOT something where one needs to stress over "correct" technique.
It's not compulsory; take up something else."""Really, all you need to become a good knitter are wool, needles, hands, and slightly below-average intelligence.
I loved this book!
It was so inspiring that I pulled some yarn out of my stash and knit Emma a sweater before I even finished reading it.And unlike some previous attempts, this sweater fit!
I love how EZ shares the basics about garment construction then sends you off to try it out.
Plus, as she reminds gently, you can always rip out what doesn't work!* As a side note...this was the ugliest knitting book I've ever picked up!
No color photos, and the dorky cover didn't get me excited to read it.
EZ had a knack for writing as well as knitting.
When I started listening to knitting podcasts and reading knitting blocks I quickly discovered Elizabeth Zimmermann, or EZ as she's often referred to, and the high esteem everyone held her in.
I only wish I had picked up her books sooner.
Knitting Without Tears is a classic for a reason, EZ is ingenous, smart, and absolutely hilarious.
I ended up reading long passages to my husband and he laughed almost as hard as I did.
Even if you're not a knitter I would recommend it (although I would have to warn you, you might end up wanting to pick up your own set of needles).
I love Elizabeth Zimmerman!
I've had this book for a few years but had never read it.
If you want easy to follow patterns, this book isn't it.
But if you want to be challenged to really learn about HOW to knit, and to think about it independently, then this is your book.
If you want to be the kind of knitter your grandmother probably was, this is your book.
If you like old stories that make you nostalgic for an era that might even be before you were born, this is your book.
Can't wait to dig into more of her.
Elizabeth Zimmermann is known in knitting circles for seeing patterns in ways that no one else does, for being able to create things that while at first glance seem as if they simply won't work, ultimately end up being very cool projects. She's known for knitting in the round, and lots of these patterns are in the round. She is conversational and witty in this book and provides lots of helpful advice and patterns. It's a must read for knitters; I'm glad I finally looked at it.
My first EZ book, this one remains a treasure. I learned more from this book than any Learn-To-Knit book; it made me the fearless knitter I am today. Before I had even knit my first sweater, EZ explained the basics in a way that left me confident and brazen. Her percentage system is explained in detail and has helped me design numerous sweaters.My desert island knitting book, because although it's low on patterns, it's big on attitude, commen sense and companionable conversation.
Elizabeth Zimmermann is a knitting icon and in reading her book, it's easy to see why. Very conversant in style, which can bother some, but I found it to be a pleasant, easy read. I learned many tricks from her book and she's given me a new confidence in how I approach projects, mistakes, and re-writing patterns. This is not a beginner's book and assumes that you've had knitting experience. It's a classic.
Incredible lady. The title says it all. This is a new edition, but the ideas are the same. Put your work on circular needles, and if you want a cardigan, cut the opening up the front. This book gave me the courage to knit anything, with or without a pattern. Oh, and yes, I still make things that flop, but most do not if I do as Elizabeth says.
Far beyond my current knitting capabilities but certainly something to aspire to! The writing is wonderful. Who ever thought that a knitting book coukd be so thoroughly delightful? Reading this book you feel as though you're sitting with a pleasantly sharp-tongued friend intent on infusing you with knitting confidence. Patterns be damned! You can design your own sweater!
this book taught me how to knit, and i'm so glad it was the first one i owned because i like figuring things out for myself and this book inspired me to experiment and strike out into unknown knitting territory absolutely fearlessly.
Zimmermann's books are a delight to read and indispensible to any knitter. Even if you can't appreciate her wicked sense of humor, it's impossible not to find her tips and patterns helpful to your knitting.
I've been a knitter for years, I don't know why it took me so long to finally read this book; I really enjoyed it. I do see myself following up with more of Elizabeth Zimmermann's work. I look forward to trying out some of the patterns/ formulas she created.
So much more than a knitting book. E.Z. is an inspirational and delightful author. I'm increasingly fascinated by the "genre" of women's knitting books; the culture of support and aspiration that started moons ago and continues today in the blogosphere is fascinating and enlightening.
There are a lot of Elizabeth Zimmerman fans in knitting circles so I was curious to read her myself -- she has her schtick, and I like it. I may buy this one somewhere down the road when I feel confident enough to take on a loosely explained pattern like you find in here.
Elizabeth Zimmermann is my knitting guru. She died before I really knew who she was- but her comforting words and common sense ring true decades later. I reccommend ALL of her books, I really can't say one is better than the other. She truely was a genius, radical thinker.
Elizabeth Zimmerman has such excellent knowledge of knitting. I love her straight forward style and would have loved to have knitted with her!
Elizabeth Zimmermann cracks me up. She is completely matter-of-fact and enjoys her craft immensely without romanticizing it. She is also a genius when it comes to inventive knitting techniques.
Absolute must-read book for garment design.
When I first really got into knitting, EZ was all the rage, because, like the times, she was about empowerment.
None of the techniques she discusses are 'new' anymore (colorwork by using both hands to strand, etc), but the book IS subtitled 'basic'.
She's not teaching you fancy stitches as much as how to think like a master knitter.
Who can resist a knitterly advice such as, in discussing knitters who switch hands for knitting and purling "This is a vale of tears and no mistake.
