https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/62851.The_Human_Factor
Nel cast anche tre Sir (titolo onorifico assegnato dalla Corona), i primi due ormai defunti: Richard Attenborough, John Gielgud, Derek Jacobi.Una spy story ambientata all’interno dei servizi segreti britannici durante la guerra fredda che non potrebbe essere più lontana da James Bond: non si vedono armi, l’azione è ridotta al minimo, la trama, per quanto funzionante e strutturata, ruota intorno ai personaggi, alla loro personalità, alle differenze di carattere.
[Questa è probabilmente stata l’esperienza personale dello stesso Greene nei suoi anni di lavoro per i servizi segreti britannici in Africa durante la seconda guerra mondiale.]Nicol Williamson nella parte del protagonista Maurice Castle.
More than his superior novels, THE HUMAN FACTOR demonstrates Greene's confounding ability to compel readers to turn pages.
Though nothing much was going on and the plot was nearly entirely predictable, I flew through.
Introduction, by Colm Tóibín--The Human Factor
Diving into the occult and ruthless world of secret agents ... sometimes also double agents. Solitary in the heart of the Organization, the secret agent evolves in troubled water, in an opaque universe, heavy with mistrust and suspicion: the colleague who seems the most harmless and inspires you the most sympathy will not prove he's not the traitor or your worst enemy? "The Human Factor" is a real novel of atmosphere but, for me, a reading a little laborious due to the bitterness of the subject. Is not Graham Greene one of those great writers unfairly forgotten?
If I wasn't already familiar with Greene, I probably would've put it down at some point before those 80 pages, thinking this book was not my thing.
But it deserves patience, as Greene is setting you up (necessary for the story) and by the time you're set up, you're hooked.This novel is a mastery of dialogue.
The Human Factor (1978) – by Graham Greene is set in the British secret service, but…this is certainly no James Bond 007 story; there is no glamour to be found here; this is all about a bleak troubled life of keeping secrets, a life of internalised silence and deception.

a novel of spies and of pawns and of the interchangeability of those roles.
the tale is deceptively simple and straightforward; the mixed loyalties of the protagonist and the portrait of his relationship with his african wife are sweetly affecting and pleasingly non-dramatic....but all of this is, in a way, a cover for the bleakly mordant commentary on betrayal that lies at the novel's heart.
reading Human Factor made me understand how the works of le carre will always be superior to the works of fleming, and yet will often be half the fun.
“Viviamo tutti nella stessa casella ma non siamo noi a sceglierla”  Primo romanzo di Greene che leggo.Avvincente direi che è l’aggettivo più calzante per questa spy-story dove la salsa è molto english ma il tutto è presentato s’un piatto di portata internazionale.Il personaggio principale, Castle, è infatti alle dipendenze del Ministero degli Esteri e assieme al suo assistente Davis, si occupa della sezione 6a dove arrivano telegrammi Top Secret dall’Africa.
All’apparenza un lavoro d’ufficio monotono nella sua ripetizione finché un giorno arriva un certo Daintry responsabile della Sicurezza.
7); therefore, some might be disappointed in the protagonist, Muarice Castle, whose action is not thrillingly hero-like as compared to James Bond by Ian Fleming or Jason Bourne by Robert Ludlum.I particularly admired this bookshop scene:It was an unusual respectable bookshop for this area of Soho, quite unlike the bookshop which faced it across the street and bore the simple sign 'Books' in scarlet letters.
The window below the scarlet sign displayed girlie magazines which nobody was ever seen to buy -- they were like a signal in an easy code long broken; they indicated the nature of private wares and interests inside.
But the shop of Halliday & Son confronted the scarlet 'Books' with a window full of Penguins and Everyman and second-hand copies of World's Classics.
When writing this novel, Graham Greene wanted to write an espionage story free from the violence, and unreality, of the spy stories of the time.
Notably, Greene once worked with Philby and, although he insisted that Castle was not based on him, there is an attempt to explain why someone would be tempted into being a double agent which suggests that Philby may have been on his mind.
Castle is forced to work with the man who once interrogated him in South Africa and to consider the safety of his small family.
This novel has moments of great depth and feeling and I am glad that I read it.
All the characters are credible, fully fleshed out, and fallible.The issues Graham Greene raises in 'The Human Factor' (1978) are quite complex and perhaps, ultimately, it's most about individual vulnerability, especially when pitted against greater forces.
I look forward to discovering how Otto Preminger, who directed the 1979 adaptation, evoked, for example, the stiflingly chic Chelsea wedding reception complete with hundreds of china owls, or the appalling attempt at nightlife camaraderie among Service colleagues down at The Raymond Revue Bar in London's Soho.
Apparently Graham Greene drew on his own experience in MI6 and explored the moral ambiguities raised by his old boss, legendary Soviet double agent Kim Philby.
Among the 6 novels of Mr Greene I read so far, this is among the best ones even considering the usual high-quality standards of this author."The Human Factor" is a novel of apparent stillness and the power of memories where not so much seems to happen in the present with the main characters constantly looking backwards.
The daily life of middle-aged Mr Castle is spent between his desk in a tiny office in London and a detached house in the sleepy little town of Berkhamstead, where Graham Greene himself was born.
Titles always intrigue me.
In this case I couldn’t help wondering if The Human Factor might be an ironic reference to ‘disposable’ humanity in the espionage world or the incalculable response of unpredictably emotional humans which (can) cause the best of plans to go awry.
Perhaps both?Published in 1978, The Human Factor was immediately made into a movie the next year.
Although I haven’t seen it, I would like to.
What is the human factor?July 7, 2018: This has been on my shelf ever since I used to belong to Folio, years ago.
I read this for a book club discussion, and was completely blown away.
The story deals with MI5 and MI6 intelligence officials during the Cold War, and is more of a realistic look at life in secret intelligence than the action-packed spy books and movies we're used to.
There is so much subtly building up as the story moves along.
There's a humor to the characters, even in the bleakness of the story.
I went into this book without having read the back or the introduction, and appreciated not knowing more about it beforehand.
Il testo è scorrevole e tiene legati alla storia senza avere particolari colpi di scena, ma tutto attraverso i dialoghi e questo senso di oppressione che si intravvede già nella scena e che poi sarà un continuo crescendo fino alla fine.Una bellissima scoperta, che invoglia a leggere altro di questo autore.Alle 18.35 di un giorno simile a tutti gli altri Maurice Castle sale sul treno che dall'ufficio lo riporta a casa.
E Castle non può far altro che iniziare con il suo misterioso antagonista una partita a scacchi sottilmente crudele, spietata nella sua ambigua discrezione.
The investigation concludes that Davis is the source of the leak and action is taken, but the cloud of suspicion still hangs over Castle and he realises that he may have to make a greater sacrifice to save all that he cherishes.To write this tense thriller Green drew on all his experience and knowledge from his time at MI6 during the Second World War. It is a bleak story, that is very cleverly written too, as he has managed to get across the mundaneness of the bureaucrat’s job in the service, whilst examining the larger question of loyalty to family or to country.
Greene was a master of literature but I often found his spy novels were good, but not great. This is moreso because I am not a spy novel fan. Having said this, knowing his background in the British Service, he knows what he is doing.
Love the way Graham Greene talks about human frailties without being preachy or overbearing... His writing tugs at your heart just that wee bit, but leaves you thinking long after you've finished reading...
But if they’re after publicity, there’s little we can do.’I read The Human Factor shortly after finishing Ben Macintyre's biography of Kim Philby - A Spy Among Friends.
Just as it is impossible to read The Human Factor and not wonder about the underlying motives that made people not only join the secret service but also made them defect from it and turn into double agents.
It is all the more fascinating that Greene should pick up a story of defection and focus on the motivations of the spy and the efforts of counter-espionage to exercise damage control - the game which gives so little consideration to the human factor:'I wish I were a chess player.
Me gusta. Es posible que sea heretico, pero es Dostoyevski en el s. XX.
Castle is only a pawnI'm not a fan of spy novels.
The characters Castle, Davis, Daintry, Percival, Hargreaves, and `Boris' are very well-drawn, their all-too-human motives revealed one by one as are their reactions to events.
The Cold War maneuverings all seem so passé now, but the tightly-written text will take you past it.Castle has worked in South Africa, fallen in love with an agent (Sarah), but cannot be with her due to the Race Laws of the apartheid regime in the 1970s.
In return for saving his wife, Castle agrees to become a KGB agent on the Africa desk in the British intelligence network.

In his autobiography, Greene wrote that he wanted "to write a novel of espionage free from the conventional violence, which has not, in spite of James Bond, been a feature of the British Secret Service", and I would say he pulled it off exceptionally well.Hate is an automatic response to fear, for fear humiliates.The relationships in this felt very real to me, and I just loved the dialogue.
There are small moments of humour in even the most tragic of times, and I think a lot of authors can forget that.
The only other unread Greene novel on my shelf is The Tenth Man, which I'll likely get to later this year.Book Blog | Twitter | Instagram
The plot was remarkable to me because it diverged from the other British Spy novels I have read.
It has been my impression the Brit spy novel was always centered around a mole embedded in a British intelligence agency.
I happened to read somewhere about what a great spy novelist Graham Green was, and I decided I would give this one a try.
Not that he had much of my sympathy, but those trying to root him out were even less prone so.Another thing I like about Greene is his unvarnished depictions of the life intelligence people live.
Another tale where Greene shows us his own pain. and...I won't be touching peanuts ever again!
The dull and tedium that makes espionage just basically time spent looking over one’s fence is all here.
The injustice of Apartheid is an important aspect of this novel, and is used nicely here as a foil against blackmail.For me, the ending was the masterpiece in this work.
Faith in promises that may or may not be delivered can be soul destroying.
Trust is the other trait one doesn’t have when working for the Service, and if you do, be prepared to have it tested.I do recommend reading this, but it is hard to not to sit it beside LeCarre’s masterpiece and compare.
Maurice Castle trabaja para el espionaje británico en los temas relacionados con África, ademas de su compañero Davis, pero dentro de su entorno habrá una filtración, rápidamente Daintry y otros compañeros tendrán que descubrir quien ha sido el que ha filtrado la informacion.Una novela de espias, de esas que no puedes parar de leer.Es el primer libro que leo del autor, pero no será el ultimo.
Castle is working in a desk job in the African section of MI6.
The anxiety from those times has never quite left them, but now they live a quiet life in suburbia with their son Sam, and occasionally meet up with Castle's work colleague, Davis.
Then a leak is suspected in their section, and both Castle and Davis are investigated, with tragic and far reaching consequences.This is a subtle but disturbing espionage story, with a slowly developing sense of menace.
As for those at the bottom - well, spies are people too, with human desires and fears, but the corrupting and isolating influence of a life spent keeping secrets is never far away.
This was an okay novel, but not up to Graham Greene's best, in my humble opinion. Honestly, I never really got fully engaged in the plot or its characters. It has been my experience that early Greene novels are such a deep psychological tour de force, and I never felt that this connected with me like that.
Uma narrativa tipica sobre espiões que escapa ao típico: é a perfeita antítese das encantadas e pouco realistas histórias do nosso amigo Bond. James Bond.
