https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18144053-the-museum-of-extraordinary-things
It’s everything that I wanted Night Circus to be.
It’s everything Water for Elephants aspired to be and just wasn’t.
The prose that Hoffman tucks away in the nooks and crannies of these pages not only inspire and delight, but they bring depth, heart and familiarity to these rough around the edges characters.
The seasoned symbolism Hoffman offers really blew me away as well.
The fires in this story suggesting rebirth or great change, the stolen time piece of Eddie’s that symbolizes the burden he carries with him and finally let’s go of, the wildness of the wolf who could not be tamed walking alongside Eddie on the New York City Streets.
You constantly feel the novel digesting its research and regurgitating it not very subtly, treating dramatic historical events almost off-handedly, with dryness and an alarming absence of real pathos.The "love story" is completely farcical and devoid of any complexity and sense of progression.
I understand that there is supposed to be an element of magic realism at play here but can writers still write sentences like "She saw him and knew in that instant that she loved him" (I'm paraphrasing) without feeling a sense of embarrassment?Magic realism cannot work if you cannot believe in the foundations of the story and sadly, there was nothing believable in these characters and the way they interacted with each other.The novel is also riddled with repetitions and tedious, cliché declarations about the immigrant experience and the nature of identity.
Five stars is not enough. If I could I'd give it ten stars. I can't even with this book...my heart feels like it might explode. Joy does not begin to describe how I feel after finishing one of Hoffman's books. I feel transformed. Am I the only one who ever feels this pure rush of emotion after reading a book? I hope not.
For about the first half of the book, I felt like I was reading two separate stories.
The author really took her time setting up the backstory and delving in to the lives of the two very distinct perspectives - Coralie and Eddie.
The one thing that both Coralie and Eddie desired, from a young age, was that sense of freedom.
I wish the author would have struck more of a balance between the development of their individual pasts and the time they spent together.
Or maybe it’s just that I don’t get love at first sight.
That being said, there is little new in the way of Coney Island history.
Her fascination with Dreamland and old Coney Island were interesting to me too, but the primary story fell flat.
For an excellent representation of Bowery life, the Jewish immigrant experience, the ins and outs of 1910-1911 Coney Island, the gangsters and prostitutes and corrupt officials, read Kevin Baker's Dreamland.
For a better story of circus sideshow folk, and the unethical things people do to each other, read Geek Love - it's an incredibly good novel.

I'd be really relieved if Alice Hoffman stepped up to say she was busy cataloguing her library of obscure Latin books on topography and so paid someone else to write this novel for her.
Because that's how unlike Hoffman's usual books, this latest offering is.
The history featured, the fires at Triangle Shirt Factory and Coney Island, is not done so well enough to interest me sufficiently to run to Google to see the facts of these events: usually I'm a devil for hunting down historical facts mentioned in books.
I am a Alice Hoffman devotee and I was horribly disappointed.
Two confessions:1. My first Alice Hoffman book2. I was concerned I would constantly compare it to Night CircusSo, having finished the book I:1. I want to read more Alice Hoffman2. What Circus??Don’t get me wrong I loved Night Circus but for different reasons. Coralie and Eddie’s stories kept me equally enthralled as these two young people each struggled to find their own way in the world despite and because of their families and backgrounds. I thought the ties to historical events were well rese
Two confessions:1.
My first Alice Hoffman book2.
I was concerned I would constantly compare it to Night CircusSo, having finished the book I:1.
I want to read more Alice Hoffman2.
What Circus??Don’t get me wrong I loved Night Circus but for different reasons.
Coralie and Eddie’s stories kept me equally enthralled as these two young people each struggled to find their own way in the world despite and because of their families and backgrounds.
I thought the ties to historical events were well researched and fleshed out as part of this riveting fiction.
I received this ARC from a Goodreads First Reads giveaway.
The Museum of Extraordinary Things is a beautifully written book about belonging, love and beauty, among other things.It is the story of Coralie, a girl with webbing between her fingers who lives with her father and his collection of extraordinary things and people."My father was both a scientist and magician, but he declared that it was in literature wherein we discovered our truest natures." pg 2It is also the story of Eddie, a Jewish boy who flees with his father from a village in Russia after his mother is murdered.Eddie is a photographer and Coralie is one of her father's "extraordinary things.""Eddie had come to understand that what a man saw and what actually existed in the natural world were often contradictory." pg 57Both Eddie and Coralie have known hard times, poverty and hunger.
I loved all the history in this novel, the burgeoning Coney Island, the freak shows and all the strange sights to see on the Boardwalk.
The descriptions of these things were amazing and this was the best characterization in this novel.
So I would say this is readable for the history alone, the sights and sounds of the boardwalk as well as the Triangle Shirt factory fire.
If the characters had drawn me in more this probably would have been one of my favorites of her but alas..........ARC from publisher.
I love Alice Hoffman. I just think I've read too many "quirky freak show/circus people in fantasy or alt-worlds" lately. Or just in my life. This is a nice book though, the writing is lovely as always, I just felt like the ending didn't kind of live up to the beginning somehow? It felt rushed. Basically this book reminded me of the Night Circus a lot, which I loved more and read too close to this, so there's probably that that's making me circumstantially biased. It's a very nice book! And I'm always an Alice Hoffman fan, so there.
But NOTHING happened in this book.
Like for two pages, admist all the walking, staring into the mirror and 101 on how to be a pathetic character.And then the major development of the book, the development promised in the blurb happened on page 200.
What happened before that, I wonder.
NOTHING happened.
Oh and the ever-shitting insta-love?!!!
You give me nothing till 70% of the book and then one look and BAM!
"We fell in love in one second" Yikes!
People say that if you hate this one, you will like The Night Circus.

This was an interesting read about Coralie who was born with a deformity, and who now works for her father in The Museum of Extraordinary Things.
This story is also about Eddie; a photographer working in New York City.
Every second chapter is told from his perspective, and the rest is told from Coralie's.
Eddie's story was highly interesting because it was relatable.
This was my first book by Alice Hoffman, and despite my problems with its pacing and one of its characters, it has impeccable writing!
It kept repeating in my head this morning as though it were dying to be heard, and how fitting that the book comes out tomorrow during the month of the Aquarius and the book is centered around a young girl who lives the life of a fish.The Museum of Extraordinary Things begins with a young lady named Coralie.
Ezekiel becomes one of his runners and find that he has a natural talent at finding the scum bags and even finds the corpse of a missing boy although he gets no recognition for it, as it is Hochman who is believed to have discovered the location of the deceased boy.Not long after this Ezekiel happens upon a photographer named Moses Levy, cuts his hair, and changes his name to Eddie and leaves the world of the Orthodox behind.
“Listen, and you’ll hear a story being told, one you may need to know.”My introduction to Alice Hoffman isn’t exactly memorable.Practical Magic which spawned the 1998 film, starring Sandra Bullock, Nicole Kidman, and Goran Visnjic, seemed to primarily focus on the progression of plot, as opposed to character development.
I don’t believe that I fully appreciated quality writing (which might or might not have been there.) And I longed for more plot and action.On a side note, the film is one of the very rare instances where I actually prefer it over the novel.The Museum of Extraordinary Things is wholly different.
“The Museum of Extraordinary Things” by Alice Hoffman, published by Scribner.Category – Fiction/Literature Publication Date – February 18, 2014This book goes beyond Fiction/Literature with adding Romance and Historical Fiction to the story.
The story takes place in the early 1900’s in New York City.
Alice Hoffman gives insight what it must have been like to live at this time in a city that contained unbelievable wealth and unbelievable poverty.
“The Museum of Extraordinary Things” falls on hard times due to competition and Coralie begins to explore life and discovering shocking things about her life.
The first half was quite good. I thought the reviewers had it wrong and that the stars should be higher.. But the second half, I lost interest and ended up speed reading . My first book by this author. It might well be the last.

There is so much to captivate you here – the story, the language, the history, the characters, the construction of the plot and the narration devices - all are masterfully done.The story of Coralie and Eddie is primarily book-ended by two actual events – the Triangle Shirtwaist Factory fire in New York City on March 25, 1911 and the Dreamland Amusement Park fire on Coney Island on May 27, 1911.
Coralie's father runs "The Museum of Extraordinary Things" on Coney Island in the early 1900's.
Coralie reminisces about her past, but most of the book takes place during her mid-teen years.
He abandons his father when he meets a famous photographer who takes Eddie under his wing.
I was instantly caught up in the details of Coralie's life and the museum and it's inhabitants.
This book could have stood on it's own with only Coralie's story, it was just that good to me.
That is not to say I didn't enjoy Eddie's narrative because I did, I was just a bit more smitten with the cast of characters on Coney Island.
I loved the story plot, switching between Eddie's and Cora's POV.
It reminds me of The Night Circus but is in a whole league of its own ;)----------------------------Update: So I did a read-a-long for this book a couple of weeks ago.
Feel free to join and comment below if you've already read it!
Let's start it off with some simple questions about the book: 1.
Was Eddie able to let his past go?
4. What did you think of the love story between Eddie and Cora?
Do you think they could have easily surpassed one another?Feel free to answer any questions you like!
And the book for me was well done enough that I enjoyed it and want to read Dovekeepers for sure.What worked and didn't work?
Almost every book you pick up with a love story, you know where it's going, don't you?
I was thinking, how marvelous that this writer did not feel the need to tell us the answer to this one mystery, and then she sorta did...However, I still delighted in this book and its mastery of lyrical language and its ambition and its compassion.
It felt like the author was trying to make the book feel more authentic by using “old fashioned” language, but it was alienating more than anything, probably because it was done in such a half-assed way, incorporating only certain elements of ‘old fashioned’ writing and speech.2)  The worst case of instalove I’ve ever encountered Seriously, it was ridiculous.
To make matters even worse (view spoiler)[ as soon as he sets eyes on her he falls in love with her?
Also, Eddie doesn’t do any actual detective work, (view spoiler)[ he tries to track Hannah down but doesn’t get anywhere, then he goes fishing and bumps into a guy who tells him all the information he needs to know.
This book took forever.
In fact I think it sort-off cause a reading slump.Firstly I have to say that this was a new genre for me, and judging by this book one I'll never read again.
I just couldn't get myself to care about the History in this book.
Yes it was horrific, yes it was hart breaking, but it just never spoke to me.
The writing was beautiful, although very repetitive at stages.
And this dragged the story out just that extra bit to much for me.
It felt like nothing happened in a few chapters and then everything happens in one chapter - wham there you go.
I do not hate this book, yet it is not the extraordinary read I had been expecting it to be.This book is part historical fiction, part mystery, part romance, and part magical realism.
I cared a little, but I did not have any emotional attachment to the story: I just wanted to know how everything played out.In regards to the historical fiction aspect, it was really well done.
Certain events that played out didn’t hit me in quite the way I had expected them to, failing to pull upon my emotions in how I had hoped they would.
The World is theirs...Coralie, a child growing up with Professor Sardie in a house filled with oddities, The Butterfly girl, The old tortoise, Siamese twins, the wolfman, all individuals who are different, come together to fill this strange home/museum.
She yearns to escape and see what lies beyond the small museum that she calls home.Ed Cohen, a photographer, who has left all of his family, is a lone man living in a barn with his orphan pit-bull, Mitts.
I just fell in love at about the halfway point and couldn't put this book down.
I loved Hoffman's storytelling, the history of Coney Island in the year 1911.

Coralie's father owns The Museum of Extraordinary Things, located near the historical Dreamland amusement park on Coney Island, Brooklyn, in 1911.
Coralie and Eddie's lives become intertwined the same year as the Shirtwaist Factory Fire and the Dreamland Fire.It took me a while to get into this book but once I did it was beautiful.
I think people who know and have grown up in New York would love this book and there is a sense of history that's really interesting, even for someone like me who has never been.I think this book would be perfect for fans of The Night Circus.
The Triangle Shirtwaist Factory fire of 1911 (a real event) leaves Eddie devastated and emotionally broken, particularly after the father of one of the girls who should have been in the fire hires him to track her down - a mystery that links both Eddie and Coralie eventually.
I also love stories that take real historical events and build their characters worlds' into them - this book takes two notable occurrences from this spring (the Triangle factory and Dreamland) and makes them key, realistic plot points (or settings) for our characters, similar to another fabulous book, Life After Life.
