https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/24861.Demian_Die_Geschichte_von_Emil_Sinclairs_Jugend
I'm going to read this book, so maybe I can understand what the hell is going on with BTS's new teasers.Look what you've done to me BigHit! Look!
Star-ratings are funny little things.* At the risk of putting words into your collective binary mouth, let me tell you how it goes with a (for loss of a better word) "good" book...you know, one that you finish all too quickly and must lick your fingers and frantically flip back several pages in order to absorb the end once more, this time wholly, slowly, meditatively.
Hermann Hesse's Demian influenced me more than just about any book although I haven't read the novel in twenty years.
Sinclair, through Demian, learns of the individuals with the “Mark of Cain.” These people are special; they can't feel fulfilled within the normal societal context and must look elsewhere for meaning.
Without Demian and similar books I would have lacked a voice for emotions I couldn't articulate on my own; Hesse's work became a framework around which I could see potential self-value at a time in my life when I was precariously close to a feeling worthless.
I wanted only to try to live in accord with the promptings which came from my true self.
I sit here at this keyboard and try to write, yet after reading this exquisite novel, everything I have to say sounds trite.
There were moments while reading this book where I just closed the pages, closed my eyes and thought, “Wow. I just want to live in THIS moment.
I don’t want to read anymore or think anymore or talk anymore.
I just want to experience THIS.” So profound was his writing that I can’t even manage to explain it to you.
I want it to be profound for you, too.
Demian: Die Geschichte einer Jugend = Demian: The Story of Emil Sinclair's Youth, Hermann Hesse تاریخ نخستین خوانش: در یکی از روزهای ماه آگوست سال 1974 میلادیعنوان: دمیان : سرگذشت جوانی امیل سینکلر؛ اثر: هرمان هسه؛ مترجم: خسرو رضایی؛ تهران، بنگاه ترجمه، 1346؛ در 263 ص؛ زیر نظر: احسان یارشاطر؛ چاپ دیگر: تهران، جامی، علمی فرهنگی، 1386؛ در 200 ص؛ شابک: 9645620457؛ چاپ سوم 1392؛ موضوع: داستانهای نویسندگان آلمانی - قرن 20 معنوان: دمیان؛ اثر: هرمان هسه؛ مترجم: لیلی بوربور؛ تهران، فرس، 1363؛ در 239 ص؛ عنوان: دمیان؛ اثر: هرمان هسه؛ مترجم: محمد بقایی (ماکان)؛ تهران، انتشارات تهران، 1371؛ در 258 ص؛ شابک: ایکس - 964560950؛ چاپ دوم 1372؛ چاپ پنجم 1385؛ چاپ ششم 1388؛ هفتم 1393؛ شابک: 9789645609502؛ عنوان: دمیان؛ اثر: هرمان هسه؛ مترجم: عبدالحسین شریفیان؛ تهران، اساطیر، 1374؛ در 197 ص؛ شابک: 9645960266؛ چاپ دوم 1375؛ چاپ چهارم 1385؛ من گرگ دشتها در میان برفها همه جا در پهنای دنیا سرگردانم؛ داستانی مربوط به دوران نوجوانی نویسنده است که خود را در آن، سینکلر نامیده‌ است، نامی که در آغاز نویسندگی به عنوان تخلص خود انتخاب کرده بودند.
“I realize today that nothing in the world is more distasteful to a man than to take the path that leads to himself.”  Demian is a sad and lonely read; it is a thoroughly depressing exploration of the human soul and the adolescent mind. The book portrays a general sense of detachment and dispossession with reality and the rest of the world. Emil Sincliar is different. We all are, in our own way; though Emil is separate to everyone else in his solitude. He doesn’t quite belong with other people
Demian is a sad and lonely read; it is a thoroughly depressing exploration of the human soul and the adolescent mind.
He doesn’t quite belong with other people; he doesn’t enjoy the same things and often feels unmoved by things that would directly affect most people: he is an outsider looking in, fated to exist apart from the rest of humanity.
Part of me considered that none of the events are real or the characters, but are mere tools used by the author and our narrator (Emil) to express his mental states and his sense of anguish in a world that he feels apart from.
Even so, I really did enjoy this book and I found myself relating so much to this little German boy, something I never expected to be able to do.Entering the mind of a child on the journey to find out who he or she is, something I hadn't thought of for a long time, was very interesting because it's so easy to forget that we all go through this phase, a time of pain or angst for many when we lose our innocence, learn new things, discover new philosophies, and struggle to find meaning.
i am so glad i give authors three books to make me love them.
this is a book that i would love to go back in time and give myself upon graduating from high school.
because i could see it going either way, at seventeen.
i could see myself taking this as a cautionary tale, in a way, or i could see myself going whole hog into some sort of mystical, quasi-intellectual liter-orgical spree and alienating everyone around me.
i can see myself smoking a pipe and holding court with my philosophies and my revelations ohhhh my revelations.
إننا لا نصل أبدًا، لكن طرقنا تتقاطع

«سینکلر» از روی سادگی مدت ها تبدیل به برده و غلام حلقه به گوش «فرنز کرومر» می شودتا اینکه شخصیت اصلی داستان و فرشتۀ نجات بخش «سینکلر» یعنی «ماکس دمیان» وارد داستان می شود...
«سینکلر» و «دمیان» از یکدیگر جدا شده و «سینکلر» برای ادامه تحصیل به شهر دیگری می رودعزیزانم، این قسمت از کتاب بیشتر به اتفاق های رخ داده برای «سینکلر» در زمانی که دور از خانواده زندگی می کند می پردازدتا آنکه پس از تقریباً شش سال، «دمیان» و«سینکلر» یکدیگر را ملاقات می کنند..
«دمیان» با آخرین نا و توانی که برایش مانده به «سینکلر» نزدیک شده و به او میگوید: از عشق او به مادرش اطلاع داشته است...
Στα κεφάλαια δηλαδή που ακολούθησαν υπήρξε ένα τέλμα αναγνωστικής απόλαυσης το οποίο έγινε βορβορώδης βάλτος στο κεφάλαιο η Πάλη του Ιακώβ.
Πήγε να βελτιωθεί στα δύο τελευταία κεφάλαια (Εύα και Η Αρχή του Τέλους) αλλά όχι όσο θα ήθελα για να βελτιωθεί ως ευχάριστο ανάγνωσμα στο σύνολό του.
Το βιβλίο αυτό λέγεται ότι έγινε το ευαγγέλιο της γερμανικής νεολαίας μετά το 1919 (χρονιά δηλαδή που εκδόθηκε)Τώρα 100 χρόνια μετά κάπως άρχισε να χάνει την δύναμή του.
Για μένα μιλάμε πάντα.Διάσπαρτα στο βιβλίο ήταν στοιχεία που με βρίσκουν παντελώς αδιάφορο όπως μυστικισμός, υπερφυσικό, θεοί εναντίον δαιμόνων, ψυχή - σύμπαν, άρχισε δηλαδή να μυρίζει ή μάλλον να βρωμάει Κοέλιο το όλο πράγμα.
_Demian_I read this on a whim, i've read steppenwolf last year and even though i believe it's a great book, i somehow felt distant to it. But with this one Hesse gave to me all the things that i was hoping for. Deep, beautiful and tender. The story is equal to the writing the the writing to the story, everything about this book feels amazing. It's summer and i am busy and too lazy to write a proper review, but i loved it and please give it a try. Be well folks and have a great August <3
Herman Hesse’ classic 1919 bildungsroman about a young boy who, with the aid of a mysterious friend, and over the course of years comes to a self-realization and a kind of spiritual enlightenment is the kind of book fans of Hesse have enjoyed for generations.On a good day I am able to walk across the room without dragging my knuckles and so Hesse’ ubiquitous themes of Jungian duality and psychoanalytical philosophy can be approached and appreciated.
Actually, Demian may be more approachable than Hesse’ other classics like Siddhartha and Steppenwolf which both explore similar themes.
It talked about religion, belief and growth in a very profound way, as if Hesse wasn't really writing but more conversing directly with my mind.Sinclair and Demian, though being very peculiar and surreal characters, were one the mirror of the other, surrounded by a plot heavy with symbolism and magical elements.The idea of the two worlds, one so close to the other that you could esily slip into one another is very fascinating and paonts a very sad but true picture of the human being and its behaviour."The bird fights its way out of the egg.
The egg is the world.
Συγκλονιστικό βιβλίο για ηλικίες γύρω στα 20, αλλά επίσης εξαιρετικό σε κάθε ηλικία. Μοναδικός όπως πάντα ο Έσε
هرمان هسه در مقدمهی کتابش میگه:من نمیتوانم خود را دانا بنامم. من جویندهای بودهام و باز هم خواهم بود؛ ولی دیگر در ستارگان و کتابها نمیجویم، بلکه به آنچه در خونم میجوشد گوش فرا دادهام. داستانم برای خواندن مطبوع نیست؛ مانند داستانهای ساختگی شیرین و گیرا نیست. داستان من یک جنبهی بیمعنایی از دیوانگی،پریشانی و رویا دارد؛ بسان زندگانی کسی که نخواهد خود را گولبزندخوببودن خیلی مفهومِ کلیایه ولی میتونم بگم مناسببودن و قابللمس\درکبودن و نهایتا لذتبخشبودنِ یک کتاب برای هرکس، به اینکه کتابی رو در چه شرایط و

Ίσως ένα έργο που αξίζει να διαβαστεί από νέους ανθρώπους, που ψάχνουν να βρουν τον εαυτό τους.
Η ανάγκη να καταλάβεις ότι καλό και κακό δεν υπάρχει και ότι όλα όσα αισθάνεσαι υπάρχουν ήδη μέσα σου, είναι δικά σου και δεν χρειάζεται ενοχές ή αποστασιωποιήσεις για να "αντέξεις" τον εαυτό σου.
Η γνωστική εικόνα του Αμπραξάς είναι ένα μοτίβο που αξίζει περαιτέρω αναζήτησης, χωρίς παρωπίδες θρησκειολογιας και ηθικολογίας.
Καίριο ζήτημα φυσικά και εδώ η αίσθηση του ανεκπλήρωτου στον έρωτα, ειδικά τον σαρκικό.
Για όσους το ψάξουν παρακάτω, για τον Αμπραξάς έχει γράψει ο Γιουνγκ.
Και η διχογνωμία Γιουνγκ - Φρόιντ...
بعد اعجوبه و سیدراتها و بازگشت زرتشت این چهارمین کتابی هست که از هرمان هسه میخوانمهرمان هسه شخصیتی خ
Ugh. I forced myself to finish this short book and, in the end, felt it wasn't worth the trouble.
I picked it up because I loved Siddhartha so much (though it's been years since I read it and now I wonder if it it will hold up).
There were a few interesting and lovely passages -- only a couple of times did I feel a thrill of poetry in the language or an inspired idea.
Many people seem to adore this book, and I'm sure it will be better appreciated by someone other than me.
So Hesse has the ability to capture your attention with an extremely captivating, interesting and promising start only to manage to lose you somewhere in the middle and as for the ending he'll either leave you mesmerized or disappointed I suppose...The thing is that I couldn't relate after a certain point and trust me I had every kind intention to love this book since I loved Steppenwolf, but Demian was nothing like it. Neither in regards to the prose nor the theme or context.
(…) All I saw was that he was different from the rest of us, that he was like an animal, a spirit or an image.Demian, with its idol-like stillness and ageless quality and androgyne appearance is not a character but a symbol, a reference point in the narrator’s life, an archetypal hero with a thousand faces who takes by turn the role of the guardian angel who frees the narrator of Kromer, of the brother into Cain who stands tall and clear in a confused world, of the mentor who teaches him the values beyond good and evil, and of the friend who never leaves him behind.
The egg is the world.
The bird flies to God. That God's name is Abraxas.”For a book full of philoshophical meanings, Demian was quite understandable.
Okay, so Demian is a book about growing up, finding oneself and one's place and role in the society.
Apart from the meanings this book passes through, the story is very good, with a fast pace plot and relatable characters.
Overall, a great book, so 4 out of 5.P.S.Okay, I confess I've read this one to help me figure out BTS's MVs. I mean look at this:Now I'm more confused...
الرواية صغيرة، ولكنها وعرة وكما هي عادة هرمان هيسه .. فهي ليست نصاً سهلاً، ولا بيضاً مسلوقاً، ولا شيئا تستطيع أن تقرأه وتستوعبه كاملاً ما لم تمنحه نفسك كاملاً. الرواية رحلة داخلية يخوضها البطل صوب ذاته، وعليه فهي فقيرة بالأحداث والحوارات (نسبياً) .. ومليئة بتلك العبارات التي تضيء وتلتبسُ في غياهب المعنى. الرواية جميلة، تغادرها وأنت تحسّ بأنك .. هممم .. لست الشخص نفسه؟
Demian...............how lucky people are who are so inclined to constantly be searching as are the characters in this book! How much they discover, how many emotions they feel, how incredibly inspiring they are. I loved this book because I love passionate people.
Along the way, some amusing readings of biblical events, delivered by Demian, the obscure object of desire in the story, regarding Golgotha (51) and Cain (23-24), the latter of which notes that "the first element of the story, its actual beginning, is the mark." The "Mark of Cain" is a metaphor that stays with the narrator the entire story, though it's not obvious what the point happens to be, though the narrator believes that he felt it for the first time (110) after committing a "trival and careless act of brutality" (109).The story presents juveniles in a non-patronizing way, and the narrator notes that "some people will not believe that a child of little more than ten years is capable of having such feelings" (29).
Πφφφφφ.....δεν μου άρεσε! Και απογοητεύτηκα πάρα πολύ γιατί βασικά περίμενα να το βρω τουλάχιστον καλό.Αντιπαθείς οι χαρακτήρες, πολύ θρησκεία, πολύ φιλοσοφία, πολύ μυστικισμός. Σε πολλά σημεία το έβρισκα μη ρεαλιστικό, από χαρακτήρες μέχρι καταστάσεις. Μερικές φορές αδιάφορο ή και κουραστικό. Το μεγαλύτερο μου πρόβλημα όμως ήταν ότι ήταν πολύ συμβολικό για τα γούστα μου! Είχε κάποιες καλές στιγμές και η γραφή ήταν ωραία, δεν ήταν όμως αρκετά.Αντιλαμβάνομαι γιατί μπορεί να άρεσε σε κάποιους αλλά δυστυχώς σε μένα δεν λειτούργησε.
Storia del giovane Emil Sinclair in conflitto fra il mondo chiaro governato da bene e costumanza, e quello tenebroso, regno del proibito e del male.
Sinclair scoprirà che il bene si fonde col male e viceversa, che l’uomo non è buono o cattivo ma una mescolanza di umanità e ferocia, che non è carne o spirito ma carne e spirito.
Allora sarà la sua coscienza a decidere se vuole obbedire ai comandamenti di Dio o a quelli della chiesa e della patria.
این کتاب داستانش اینه که یه نفر بنام سینکلر وقتی که از خونوادش دور میشه با دنیای دیگه ای روبه رو میشه که خیلی متفاوت نسبت به محیط پاک و مثبته خونواده اش هست.
کتاب داستان خیلی جذابی مثل کتابای دیگ داستانی خفن نداره ولی این سبک نویسنده اس که بیشتر کتاباش رو هرکسی نمیتونه تفسیر کنه.
اوست که اراده می کند هرکاری را هم خیلی بهتر از ما انجام می دهد."" وقتی ما از کسی نفرت به دل می گیریم در واقع از چیزی متنفر می شویم که در درون ماست، و تصویری از اوست.
“Man knows how much powder it takes to kill a man, but doesn’t know how to be happy.”—DemianDemian: The Story of Emil Sinclair’s Youth is a 1919 novel situated pre-WWI about an adolescent boy, Emil, who early on is bullied, and Max Demian intervenes on his behalf.
Because in Hesse’s conception, Emil falls in love with a girl named Beatrice that represents to him a kind of spiritual ideal consistent with this New Religion.Emil Sinclair later in the book seems to fall in love, too, with Frau Eva, Max Demian’s mother, whom he views as an image of “the Universal Mother,” which maybe evolved into the sixties conception of the Earth Mother, a feminist environmental ideal that could save the planet.
