https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/261625.The_World_Inside
And I certainly do not want to come across as a prude – something that has NEVER before come up, I don’t think – but he could have taken a different tack, left some film on the editor’s floor to avoid the X rating and still had a damn fine novel that was not taken over by the Ron Jeremyesque saxophone solos.There was a scene, late in the story, where the sexual freedoms of one culture were shown in stark contrast to the mores of another culture and perhaps, PERHAPS, Silverberg was demonstrating by hyperbole how far different sexual customs can come to be.Anyway – what was it about?
imagine a future world with many towering worlds within it!
Urbmon 116 is one such world within a world; it thrusts from the earth with its 800 floors, engorged with over 800,000 residents.
its residents never leave this world inside!imagine a utopian future!
God wants you to fuck!imagine a book written by a somewhat chauvinistic male author!
plus the whole sexual culture within The World Inside seems very much based on standard straight male fantasy templates.
ah well.imagine a reader who felt all of those things in the above paragraph and still loved this novel!
The World Inside is a medley of such voices.
Weinreb: "The World Inside" by Robert Silverberg(Original Review, 1980-10-27)Gee, Danny, I don't recall saying you don't enjoy sex, but, "please don't squeeze the Charmin!" More to the point, I found you missed the point of the "boring sexual encounters." [2018 EDIT: Daniel L.
Weinreb, Danny to his friends, my American friend died on the 7th of September of 2012; so many talks through the wires, he in the US and me in Portugal, that would fill many posts if one day I’m willing to put them on "paper"…the first time I started doing stuff in Lisp in college he was there to help me out; RIP My Friend.]
Nah, it's the second Hugo nom of Silverberg in '72, being one prolific and focused writer, with too many ideas to cram into any single book, instead just exploring a few here and a few there, but doing it so excellently that the rest of the New Wave crowd just stares and stares at the grotesque sexual display.
G. Ballard has a great number of short stories that explore this whole idea, too, but we're not talking about him.
We're talking about Silverberg, who takes it all the way down the sexual rabbithole.Oh my, that sounds weird, doesn't it?
I believe this is indicative of how criminally underrated he is, and the ongoing decline of civilization as we know it.Having said that The World Inside is not his best book, and probably not a good place to start for first-time readers.
However, if you are in the market for a dystopian book about a vertical society with weird sexual mores I don’t think there is any alternative to this book._______________________________* Having it off!Weird quotes:‘You press this button for the privacy shield.
And what, then, pray, is the consequence to such clever and far-thinking social and genetic engineering?Why, sharing!
Sure, every once in a while some flippo gets thrown down the chute, but the vast majority of the 800, 000 people stuffed like sardines into this concrete monstrosity seem perfectly content to go about their empty, aimless, beehive lives day after day, night after night, without causing the least bit of conflict with anyone.
So, much of the novel feels like a vacation brochure designed for tourists to this future world.
Being satisfied with that kind of life would require some major evolutionary changes in our genome and, by introducing us to the citizens of Urban Monad 116, Silverberg suggests that along with those nasty traits we might like to get rid of, go many beautiful human traits such as wanderlust, curiosity about the world and, perhaps, a hope for something better around the next bend.Robert Silverberg’s major focus on free love and his inclusion of hallucinogenic drug trips, psychedelic music, and orgies isn’t surprising (I’ve seen all this before in his stories), but they do serve to remind you that you’re reading a story that was published more than 40 years ago.
4.5 to 5.0 stars. A very well written, incredibly original story that delivers a powerful message regarding what it means to be an individual and a human being. One of Silverberg's best. Highly recommended!!Nominee: Hugo Award for Best Science Fiction NovelNominee: Locus Award for Best Science Fiction Novel
The other thing I was very surprised if not horrified about was that almost every review I have read before reading this book suggested something about too much sex, porn, at times even suggesting that this whole book is nothing but a porn set, accusing Silverberg that he wrote so much sex just because it was a middle of sexual revolution, etc etc.
Yes, there ar quite a lot of sex in this book.
There's a lot of sex in Altered Carbon, but Morgan's book isn't called "a porn set", too.
Yes. Silverberg also has that kind of drug here in this book.
There is a certain blandness to the modern books, and a monotonous repetition the older ones are prone to, though I think I like the ideas of the older ones, like this one, somewhat better.One thing I noticed/appreciated while reading this (and other dystopias from the period) is that what makes it Dystopic isn't that the society has some dark secret / some secret underbelly / whatever - it's all out in the open; the literal stratification of the classes, the immediate death sentence for anyone who acts out or thinks differently, the brainwashing for those who aren't thinking too differently, everyone is well aware of it.
An interesting vision of the future 300 years from now, set in a world somewhat like last year's film DREDD, except here the enormous apartment buildings are models of self-sustainable efficiency, not slums that are riddled with drugs and gangs.
Even the way justice is meted out is quite similar to that film, actually.Although THE WORLD INSIDE story didn't have much in the way of tension or narrative arc, it was a very enjoyable travelogue into a somewhat possible future.
The story dipped in and out of the lives of various people, and deftly showed the linkages between the lives of the characters.
We meet a "sociocomputator" in Chapter 1 who introduces a visitor from Venus--as well as the reader--to the wonders of the urbmon (this first chapter was initially a short story entitled "A Happy Day in 2381"); a young couple that worries about being evicted from 116 and placed into the brand-new Urbmon 158, due to their bad luck of being childless; a young musician from the city of San Francisco (Urbmon 116 is divided into 25 "cities" of 40 floors each); a historian who is obsessed with looking at tapes of the way those savages lived during the 20th century; a young go-getter who will seemingly, someday, attain to the uppermost city of Louisville, home of the urbmon's administrators; and a computer maintenance man who, in perhaps the novel's most exciting segment, goes "flippo," escapes from the building, and explores the outside world....
I know Robert Silverberg primarily as a scifi writer.
I also know very well that that genre is not exclusive to his oeuvre – I have read his, sort of, autobiography / coffee table book “Other Spaces, Other Times: A Life Spent in the Future ”.
Other than scifi, Silverberg has written several well acclaimed non-fiction books, mostly histories of ancient civilizations.
But those novels are not what I choose to read from Silverberg.
This really is a gem. Perfection. Though I've had a lot of difficulty finding sci-fi that has been 'sponge-worthy' (Seinfeld), Silverberg has hit the mark -- depth, wonderfully written, character-driven, philosophical, pacing...
Makes for fun reading, I say.Having said that, I can't imagine one woman buying into this one.A society where men (and women, too) are free to demand sex from anyone they choose, married or not, of age or not, and not only is this acceptable, but to deny anyone their pleasure is deemed to be treasonish and it's down the chute to combustion with you.The women in this novel don't seem to have much issue with this, wecoming middle of the night visitors with open legs and instantly horny.
Really, a neat take on population explosion, which was certainly a buzzword when this was written.I do have a gripe that may make me seem small town, or small country.Silverberg had named floors and districts after original Earth cities.
Silverberg posits a future world where people live in enormously tall buildings so that the rest of the planet can be used to grow food. People with the least important jobs live in communities on the lowest floors while the leaders live at the top. Procreation is the most important priority, and people go nightwalking (where they are welcome to bed whom they want although it is expected that you stay local.) Flippos are the ones who freak, and are thinned from society. We meet a few characters living on the edge. Concept better than execution.
In this vision of the future Silverberg takes us to year 2381, the overpopulation of earth has been solved by creating Urban Monads, buildings three kilometers high in which populations of about 880,000 thousand people live completely regulated lives without ever going outside.
Would love to discuss the ending with someone else who has read it though.The following may be spoilers for the social exploration of the book, though not of the actual story:In a few ways however, this story has dated considerably because it is a story from the 60's - 70's, when the sexual revolution was first underway and it explores the sexuality of the future as well as other aspects of population destiny.
R Silverberg's "THE WORLD INSIDE" isabout the giant apartment communistic/yet caste riddencomplex (the floors are divided up according to job'importance).
Population goes flippo so the powers thatbe make a huge ass 1000 floor apt.
The jargon in this book is reallyinfectuous and carries the story for a quick read.
The monuments of the world areground up after being well documented for home viewingso no one needs to go outside.
All the charactershave some kind of beef with the system of the apts,and one guy in particular goes AWOL checking out thecommunes on the outside who have gone back to aritualistic primitive harvest society.
The book is structured into seven chapters that act as inter-connecting short stories, each focusing on a different inhabitant of Urbmon 116.
It lacks a traditional plot structure, but Silverberg is going for the "literary" here, and it mostly works.
The World Inside is a book that keeps you thinking.As intriguing a vision of the future it presents, The World Inside is very much a product of its time.
So far as I can tell, there are no non-Euro-American characters, and while there's an awful lot of sex, women are relegated to a passive, domestic role with essentially no power.
That is, there is no dark heart of the urbmon, no foreshadowing of terrible secrets, no horrible premonitions, something perfected in novels like 1984 or Brave New World that is bungled continuously.
Silverberg relishes in the adolescent fantasy rather than the terror it invokes, and this I think is the book's principal failure, that despite his ability to shift perspective and view, he can only do so within a patriarchal and fetishizing framework where the wonderous universe he has created becomes a semen-filled sandbox for his wet dreams.
Oh I bet this one has been a firecracker at many a book club meeting.The World Inside began life as a short story (chapter one) in 1970.
But it proved to be such a fertile idea that a year later five more stories were added to expand and more fully explore the world inside Urban Monad 116.
Silverberg chooses to delve deep into the psychological effects of living with high population density and the social mores and laws; the inside of people's heads being another "World inside".
Comparisons with today's society with its Twitter, unlimited porn, on demand tv....etc are frighteningly easy.
The year is 2381 the population of the world is 75 billion people and they practically all live in Urbmons……. 1000 story buildings that accommodate about 800,000 people. People spend their whole life in the urbmon and leave it only when they are chosen to be the nucleus of a new urbmon (when the urbmon gets too crowded). No birth control is practiced and sharing of everything is the norm, including each other's bodies. Each evening the men go out for nightly walks, walk into random apartments a
The year is 2381 the population of the world is 75 billion people and they practically all live in Urbmons…….
1000 story buildings that accommodate about 800,000 people.
The purpose of the sharing is so that no stress will accumulate and is considered vital in order to allow so many people living in such a small place.
All people are supposed to behave as expected and be content.
Most of the people are content, the ones that are not content are eliminated.I enjoyed the book.
As with many SF books written so far back, the world they draw seems primitive (for example no cell phones)
Excellent novel (or series of inter-connected short stories) about life in the 24th century. Inhabitants of Earth live in a series of self contained buildings that reach skyward. Procreation (sex!) is the past-time of many. The few who long for something outside the crowded walls Urban Monad 116 are given center stage here. Religion and sociology put into a moving series of stories.
This dystopian novel of massive overpopulation is really quite good. People live in massive skyscrapers and most see their world as a utopia. The few who do not are ruthlessly disposed of and, unusually for dystopian novels, seem unlikely ever to change the system. The episodic structure and focus on various characters is very effective.
In the story focusing on Aurea - the only one that has a woman for a main character - the author doesn't tell us how these things are handled, despite having a perfect opportunity to do so.
(view spoiler)[If the urbmon society is so liberated and forward and whatnot, why are the women there just breeding machines?
(view spoiler)[Also, if the urbmon society is so liberated and forward and whatnot, then why the hell can't a woman say no if she doesn't want to entertain a random douche that barges into her home?
It's a fascinating glimpse into a future Earth - a world where people now live completely inside in 1000 story buildings and serve god (lower case because, as the book tells us, why would god care if it's capitalized or not?) by being blessworthy.
That involves being a good citizen, avoiding interpersonal conflicts at all costs, and breeding like rabbits.Each chapter of the book is about life in the Urban Monads (urbmon for short) told through a different characters eyes.
But on the other, I was soooo infuriated by that society that lives and prospers like a cancer (literally, their only purpose in life is growth for the sake of growth) and whose pseudo "harmony" relies entirely on rape culture.For me, this world is the very depiction of hell; the problem is, it's not an entirely unlikely future for humanity, way down the road.
Regarding form: it's fairly easy to read: each chapter is like a short story focusing on one of a dozen select inhabitants of the tower, showing how each in his (yes, mostly men ; only one chapter is about a woman's POV) own way is brought to analyse their lifestyle, and sometimes even *GASP* question it!
Seriously creepy dystopia.
And the creepiness, well, creeps up on you.
At first it's just your average overcrowding/individuality-is-antisocial/super-high-rise dystopia, but as I went on I became progressively more and more uneasy with what was happening to the main characters.
Particularly interesting was the discussion late in the book between one of the "urbmon" dwellers and a "free" woman from one of the communes that produces the food for the world's 75 billion people.
Obviously the differences are exaggerated and taken to extremes to make a point, but the brief debate they have over whose way of life is better is intriguing; I wish that had been longer.
Aspects of his vision were interesting, but the sexual mores were a non-starter for me.
In his world, women had no say in how their bodies were treated.
I found that aspect of the story reprehensible and that detracted substantially from my enjoyment of his thought experiment.
I'm a pretty liberal guy, but a society where women are tools for the gratification of men, and are depicted ad being ok with that status with no exposition as to how that came to be...
this sounds more like a dirty old man's unfulfilled teenage wet dream than a thoughtful vision of a future wherein population growth is encouraged.
I'm not always a fan of books that skip between a number of characters, but "The World Inside" is an exception. I didn't find "The World Inside" to be a staggering work of originality and genius, but considering its age (it was written back in the 1970s) it didn't feel that dated either. The plot flowed smoothly and the consequences of sacrificing privacy and personal liberties for high population growth was explored thoughtfully in this well-written dystopian novel.
