https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1113797.The_Story_of_Mankind
It is the winner of the most prestigious award for children’s literature, and honestly, I don’t know what the first Newbery committee was thinking.
I honestly think adults read it, and thought that children should, so they gave it the Newbery.Did this book deserve to win the Newbery: NoWhy not: Well, I’ve gotten into this question already.
I understand that the Newbery committee was thinking about the children, our future leaders.
But should I happen to look out of the window, down upon Seventh Avenue, and should the endless procession of trucks and carts come to a sudden halt, and should I hear the sound of the heavy drums and see the little man on his white horse in his old and much-worn green uniform, then I don't know, but I am afraid that I would leave my books and the kitten and my home and everything else to follow him wherever he cared to lead.
This book is exceptionally Eurocentric, which makes sense for the period in which it was written, but does not excuse the racism and the belief that little of "historic importance" ever came out of the non-western world.
Christianity is treated both as the norm and as the correct belief system, and while I agree that the bible is an important work of historical and literary significance, for a book that seems to care so much about scientific accuracy it gets preachy and uncomfortable.
Too bad the writing is horrible and the words are boring.I struggled with giving this book two stars.
I looked back at the books I gave one star to, and those books were REALLY bad.
I must say that Van Loon had a passion for history and tried his best (?) to impart his wisdom and knowledge...it is just that no self-respecting kid would ever pick this book up with the intention of reading it (maybe to throw it at an annoying sibling but never to read it).
At least now I have fully begun my quest to read all the Newbery Award Winning Books.
Actually, perhaps he asks the question better himself -- right after the year 1066 when "the grandson of a Norse pirate was recognised as King of England." He asks, "Why should we ever read fairy stories, when the truth of history is so much more interesting and entertaining?" Why, indeed.Because a kid reading this might wonder, he addresses things like the weather -- "Henry, dressed as a penitent pilgrim (but with a warm sweater underneath his monkish garb), wait[ing] outside the gates of the castle of Canossa."I learned a lot in this book.
if you want an explanation of this strange career, if you really wish to know how one man could possibly rule so many people for so many years by the sheer force of his will, do not read the books that have been written about him.
For example, he opined about the horrible state of people in the middle ages and how it must have been due to their religious beliefs for about 15 pages and then devoted only one sentence to Joan of Arc. During some chapters my wife and I (I was reading it aloud to her), would stop and look at each other with faces full of that absurd "What!?" expression.
Had C.S. Lewis been referring to a history book in "The Abolition of Man," I certainly would guess he was talking about this piece of rubbish.
This is a book that belonged to my grandfather, it's the 1947 edition. I fell in love with the illustrations and is probably one of the reasons I love history. I've added 3 photographs of pages with illustrations that took my fancy. The first - of the universe with the sign (Here we Live) at first worried me a little - the vastness OUT THERE but I was very very young at the time. Now it reminds me of something that might come from a Douglas Adams book...perhaps he read Van Loon too. ;)
I did it!!!!
"Did the country or the person in question produce a new idea or perform an original act without which the history of the entire human race would have been different?" It seems like a nearly impossible question to answer, but Van Loon doesn't hesitate to answer this question in regards to the Mongolians.
"No race ever played a more picturesque role in history than the Mongolians," he writes, "and no race, from the point of view of achievement or intelligent progress, was of less value to the rest of mankind." Yikes.
I will also mention Van Loon's cringe-worthy discussion of slavery in the Americas.
I think that Van Loon was well-intentioned, but very misguided in writing this book.
James Loewen), I kind of expected to see a lot of what he calls "bad history" and "bad sociology" - as most people writing history books have tended to base their research on other historians' work rather than doing research with primary materials, some pieces of information got passed along as fact that were not true.
301); and even that is followed up by van Loon noting the fact that Vikings were here centuries before Columbus.Some things I found quite relevant to today, and I found it interesting that the author chose to include them in his work.
I might be a little crazy, but I would like to try to read all the Newbery Medal winning books.
I have already read several, but I decided to start at the first medal book for this journey.
I teach where we read a couple of volumes of The Story of the World, by Susan Wise Bauer.
So I thought the van Loon book would be perfect...a short synopsis in one volume.
His aim in part was to inspire questions and interest in the development of mostly western civilization in a younger reader who might then read more about that period by actual historians.
Just to say that in Canada this book will be titled "The Story of Peoplekind"
This short(ish) history of the world was well written (and apparently the first ever Caldecott winner?), but had all of the strengths and weaknesses you'd expect from a history book--even a children's history book--written by a Progressive at the beginning of the 20th century.
Aside from the treatment of the Middle Ages, the Ancient world, and the Enlightenment, the best example is the contrast between the 1926 postscript, wherein van Loon calls for a strong captain to seize the helm of the ship of state and drive history forward, and the 1939 postscript where he frantically says "I told you Hitler was a menace!" In other words, this probably isn't the best place to start if you're looking for a good world history.
The Story of Mankind by Hendrik van Loon was awarded the very first Newbery Medal in 1922.
Given that this won the first Newbery, I was excited to read it, even though I had heard some less than favorable things about the writing.Let me first admit that I skimmed a vast majority of this book.
I started the book with the full intention of reading everything as normal, but it didn't take long for me to realize that I would never get through the book if I tried to read without skimming.The one positive thing I can say about this book is that Hendrik van Loon took on an impossibly difficult topic.
Why, well basically there are a lot better books out there to spend my time reading.I feel that if I were an 8-12 year old in 1921 I would have really loved this book.
I liked how accessable the writing style was (but it is now difficult to determine what the author included as jokes, and what was really believed).
The short chapters were great - meaning an approapriate time between 'lights out at the end of the chapter' and actual sleep.The history presented in the book may have been up-to-date in 1921 (maybe) but certainly the same book written with what we know now would be different.
The first Newbery award-winner and thus the start of my grand Newbery read/re-read.
It shows what was considered important and unimportant, known and unknown at the time it was written.
And the updates added in the back of the book at various times showed the same.
Also what was considered acceptable and normal in a book had changed.
The chatty breezy fourth wall breaking simplified writing style of the original eventually becomes the overly dense more academic writing of the later bits.The acceptance and importance of religion in an academic book.
Of course, van Loon is a Dutch American, and his bias towards the story of isolationist Western history is quite obvious.
I did like the very occasional bits of dry wit and sarcasm that made the reading experience somewhat bearable, but it was hard to distinguish if van Loon was trying to be funny or if it was a hilarious product of the time this book was written.
But hey, it's the first ever Newbery book.
If you want a truly fascinating, truthful, and relevant exposition of Western history, read Francis Schaeffer’s How Should We Then Live.
Having recently read this year's Newbery Medal book, I thought it would be interesting to read the winner of the first Newbery (awarded in 1922).
Occasionally the author steps away from the chronological narrative to address the reader on topics such as the bias of historians, or marvels with us at particular moments (ex."Why should we ever read fairy stories, when the truth of history is so much more interesting and entertaining?").
The volume I read was updated since the '20s, including chapters on WWII and other more recent events.
It took me forever to get through this book, because it basically reads like a textbook, which is fine, but not something I think would ever be appealing to kids in the twenty-first century. I would be SHOCKED if a kid actually willingly picked this up to read it, finished all 600+ pages, and enjoyed it.
I've read this book a number of times while preparing to teach world history. Van Loon was a professor of history who decided to make the scope of world history palpable for his grandkids. The book's voice and tone is avuncular and affable. but it is not impartial. Van Loon, an immigrant who made good, love America and her European forefathers.
Brutal read, but interesting as an artifact of the prevailing wisdom of its time.
I imagine that a history of mankind that is made up of 50% politics and war would not be very interesting for kids either.
The author did admit that this book was biased, but it did not excuse the incredible eurocentric white protestant bias, obvious racism, and clear disregard for other races and countries because "they did not really contribute in a meaningful way to the advancement of mankind." I too had a problem with the awkward asides that were randomly placed throughout.All in all, an informative read that was fun and interesting...until all of the wars.
However, if the story of Eastern civilization is as dry as this is, I’ll wait till the movie comes out.2) I was positively impressed by the was he rather deftly brought out religion (read: Christianity, mostly although he does nod graciously toward Islam and Buddhism).
My opinion as a Christian is that religions should never be followed blindly and certainly not forced on someone and he seems to think so, too.3) This guy really liked to talk about war.
I think I am going to edit these striding opinions later when I have a little time between me and the reading of this book.
Granted, there are a couple things that would probably be considered almost factual errors now AND there is definitely a very strong Eurocentric slant.
It probably isn't great for kids now unless some changes have been made in the newer edition.
I read the original version which ends in the 1920's.
There is a newer version that continues the story of mankind, but, I heard that after the 1920's the author was not as conversational in quality as the original author and thus I went with the older edition.
i'm liking it.
it's interesting.
i can see why it was chosen.
basically, it's the break down of the history of the world.
short chapters.
quick info.
the author wrote it as a way to explain the story of man to his grandchildren.some of it is outdated of course b/c it was published in 1921.
also there is a note under the copyright saying that this is a product of it's time and doesn't reflect today's society.
i saw that throughout.
but at it's core i found it an interesting way to help introduce history, architecture, archaeology, sociology, etc.
2018 Newbery Medal Winner ChallengeFor 2018, I am attempting to read all of the winners of the John Newbery Medal.
Reading all of the Newbery Medal winners would be a small way to satisfy that (not-s0) little itch I've always had to read ALL THE BOOKS.My thoughts on the first ever book to win the medal: More like the history of white dudes in Europe.
The author wrote it as if he was speaking directly to his children, meeting them on their level and telling them the story of history.
This direct acknowledgement and respect of children as feels like it should have been revolutionary nearly 100 years ago.
The Story of Mankind heroically attempts to tell the history of the human race from caveman times to 1922, that being "the present".
It succeeds in telling the history of white people, sort of, with a strong anti-religion skew.I had high hopes of this book, because it was acclaimed the first Newbery winner by 163 librarians and has remained in print ever since, being repeatedly updated with chapters on the end - my library's 1980s edition finished with "Looking Toward the Year 2000".
Neither a scholarly analysis of the world at large, nor an academic definition of our mortal lives and strives, the book is supposed to be read as "story," as in the fireside, bedside stories, painted by captivating anecdotes, colorful narratives, and intimate feelings, as they continue to embrace children and once-upon-a-time-children of different generations.
The book does not give the children any form of academic preparation, but arm them with inspiration for discoveries and a love of mankind and its history.
I will not try to go against those comments, since The Story of Mankind is never meant to be a scholastic piece of work, but an inspiring prelude to the ever-going history concerto.
I almost threw the book out the window when about three fourths of the way through it he started apologizing for all of the people he left out and offended because he had to take liberties with deciding on subject matter based on importance.
Half of this book is personal commentary/hogwash and he left out the entire continent of South America.
Excuse me didn't China have many dynasties of contributions to the world prior to its appearance in world war one?
Russian history is glossed over, and frankly we get entirely too many pages on Napoleon.
This is a bit of a monster of children's book to delve into, especially as the first Newbery winner.
(It posed as a hard blockade to overcome when I tried to read the Newberies as a child.) Given the subject material, I consider this written decently.
(The author clearly states he's ignoring Asia, and that is important history that requires another book.)I did find it a mite frustrating when the topics I did want to know more about were only a few pages long.
In the copy I read, I also found the “updates” to make the history hit the 1980s very sloppy.
