https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/36199084-the-kiss-quotient
It was just so nice to read a book where sex is actually sexy and not political, cold, a form of manipulation, or not sex at all because consent went out the window.This is an ownvoices book about Stella, who has Asperger's syndrome.
Well, I got a lesson in just how important books like this can be.As I was reading about Stella, I started to make some comparisons.
So yeah, it is sexy as hell and really sweet, but it's also so important.
Of course, the fact that the main character is autistic is a breath of fresh air, but I didn’t connect with her.
I *understood* her – she’s pretty straightforward and eloquent – but none of the characters felt particularly three dimensional to me.It’s a lot of will they/won’t they, but the reader knows that they will.
But I won’t rate a book highly if it didn’t win my heart, especially considering that there are other *important* novels out there that actually managed to claim a place on my list of favourites.
This was my pick for the June 2018 Book of the Month box!ARC provided by the publisher via Netgalley in exchange for an honest review.  “I like you better than calculus, and math is the only thing that unites the universe.”  Friends, The Kiss Quotient is so deserving of every ounce of hype it has received thus far. I am not sure I’ve ever been so happy, and had such a lame grin on my face, while reading any other book. This was heartwarming, beautiful, and a treat to read. Don’t sleep on this on
*clutches pearls forever* But please use caution if that is something you do not enjoy in your books!But besides the steamy sex, the beautiful romance, and the lovely messages that are inside this book, my favorite part is that this book never shames Michael for being an escort, and it sure in the hell doesn’t shame Stella for being on the autism spectrum.
I think that’s why most people who are reading this right now are so in love with Michael, and it’s because he always is thoughtful and so very patient with Stella.
Through her cast of endearing characters, she explores the importance of self-acceptance and the desire we all have to find that one person who makes establishing an intimate relationship feel effortless.
Viewing the world through an autistic lens brings a fresh energy to the storyline initially, but it doesn't take long for the formulaic feel of the plot to overshadow the quirkiness of the cast.A gender-swapped Pretty Woman of sorts, The Kiss Quotient introduces the reader to Stella Lane, an incredibly smart and driven, thirty-something, living with high-functioning Asperger’s.
Aside from the character traits I admired in both Stella and Michael, their love story felt dare I say .
Helen Hoang wrote a book that is smart, sexy, made me laugh, and gave me just the right amount of feels.
Stella has Aspergers, a high-functioning form of Autism that makes her a little awkward when it comes to relationships, sex, and certain social situations.
Michael and Stella develop a friendship and relationship of sorts.
One of my favorite things about this book was seeing how Michael grew to care for Stella, embraced her quirks and handled everything that made her different.
One thing I found so refreshing about this book is Stella's character.
The Kiss Quotient is quite honestly one of the best books I've read this year.
The Kiss Quotient is quite the unexpected romance novel.
Stella Lane is on the spectrum and wants to get better at sex so she can, hopefully, find a life partner and start the family her parents so very much want her to have.
To get better at sex she hires Michael, an escort with a lot of debt and a few secrets but who, somehow, is exactly the man she needs.
That's how romance novels work.
But this is such a fun read and it's also quite original and sexy and sensitive.
Lots to admire her!
Well worth a read.
This book might have turned out to be a disappointment but at least it’s not a Percy Jackson movie.I really wanted to love this book. It seemed great for the first half but the ending felt trivial, almost mocking the seriousness of the rest of the book. Plus, I can't shake off a fizz of uneasiness with the way many things have been dealt with.full review to come!
Re-read 6/12/18: Hi hello I am still SO obsessed with this book. If you haven’t read it yet, PLEASE READ IT. You absolutely will not regret it. Original read 5/2/18: I am a swooney mess, oh my LANTA. I haven’t swooned this hard since Joshua Templeman. My heart is so happy right now, I can’t even. WHAT A ROMANCE.
employment gender role reversal.things about this that were not very good, for me, personally, sorry:- a woman getting f*cked out of some of her autism symptoms- a man not taking no for an answer (one time a man does this and it's Bad. but when the hot love interest does it, it is Very Very Good, apparently.)- i did not like the smut and i am sorry but i did not- the word "quirky" turns me off a character faster than you can say not like other girls- the protector-man gender roles were so bad- also so much "chicks love that romantic stuff" and "men never talk about feelings" type gender roles- REALLY WEIRD PARENT CHARACTERS WITH INCONSISTENT CHARACTERIZATION- felt pretty insta-lovey to me.
this book didn't work for me but clearly i'm in the teeniest minority in world history so.bottom line: read this if it sounds good to you i guess?
lord jesus mama needs a cold shower
YESSSSSS!
2018 GR Choice Awards - Best Romance - Winner :)https://www.goodreads.com/choiceaward...----------------Even Sarah J.
Maas recommends this book!
Pls watch this video clip.
:Phttps://www.today.com/popculture/thes...----------------Attention please!
This book is going to be a movie soon.
OMG I can't wait to see Stella & Michael on the big screen.
😍😍😍For more info, pls read this article!
❤https://deadline.com/2018/08/the-kiss...----------------One of the best books of 2018 and THIS BOOK IS A MUST READ!!!
:) I'm begging you, please don't miss out this beautiful story.
<3 I highly recommend it.
“All the things that make you different make you perfect.”
Michael <3 *sigh* Trust me, you have to meet with him ASAP!!!
#1 The Kiss Quotient ★★★★★#2 The Bride Test Sometimes, you hear so much hype for a book that you reach the point where you’re almost afraid to read it, because your hopes are so high that you just know, if it disappoints you even an iota, you’re going to be totally crushed… right? It’s the worst feeling and it can make it so hard to finally pick up that superlatively popular read, because nobody wants to be the only person who hates a book, right?   “All the things that make you different make y
#1 The Kiss Quotient ★★★★★#2 The Bride Test Sometimes, you hear so much hype for a book that you reach the point where you’re almost afraid to read it, because your hopes are so high that you just know, if it disappoints you even an iota, you’re going to be totally crushed… right?
It’s the worst feeling and it can make it so hard to finally pick up that superlatively popular read, because nobody wants to be the only person who hates a book, right?
I started reading this Friday night on a plane, and as usual, I suspected I probably wouldn't make it past chapter 3 before just putting on my headphones and opening up my laptop to write instead.
Most of my readers know I don't read much romance anymore, not because it's not good, but because I write it all day, I kind of need a break when I'm reading for pleasure.
He has just the right amount of edge and a touch of bad boy, but at the same time he's doing what he has to do and he's the only man who understands Stella.
Michael Phan has never had a client like Stella.
From experience I know when a book gets this level of hype it is very important to approach it with a modicum of caution.
I don’t have Asperger’s syndrome, but I am an extreme introvert, so I could relate to some of the struggles Stella fought to overcome.
I immediately warmed to her character and hoped she would find the confidence she had buried inside of her all along.While I didn’t know how to feel about Michael’s unorthodox occupation, I did LOVE this guy’s gentle patience.
its been quite wonderful to see romance stories with so much depth to them, beyond just two people in love/lust.
not that the swoon-worthy parts arent great, but now i can actually say i read the books for the plot, and mean it.
:Pwhat i really enjoyed about this book, specifically, was getting the opportunity to read from the perspective of character who has autism.
this story made me think about what romance means to not only me, but other people.
its the perfect story for those looking for a lovely feel-good book to end their summer!↠ 4 stars
Update.. This is going to be a feature film!!!!If you haven’t read this charming book yet...consider it!!!!! I’m completely mush over this debut. Author Helen Hoang moved me to tears ...  ( embarrassing to say how much)...I found it so heartwarming- that even the word heartwarming isn’t big enough. A love story .... that I loved!
“I’m obsessed with you, Michael,” she confessed. [4.5⭐]I confess that I am obsessed with this book. These characters. I had problems breathing properly on several occasions. Why did no one prepare me for the amount of damn, steamy scenes were going to be in this book?!I could’ve died just by swooning, good lord.Stella is my hero. Michael is my husband. (Book-boyfriend is too short term) I need this man in my life. I’m liking that more and more romance novels are coming out now that have substan
Why did no one prepare me for the amount of damn, steamy scenes were going to be in this book?!I could’ve died just by swooning, good lord.Stella is my hero.
In the past, they were pure enjoyment for me and they still are, but I was learning so much about high-functioning autism whilst reading this book.It just reinforces how much I love fiction.
Storytelling is the most perfect of ways to understand the plight of others, because there are emotions that get triggered which allows you to form a bond to the story and its characters.

3.5 stars To sum up my reading experience of The Kiss Quotient, I would have to say it’s like, not love.I really wanted to love The Kiss Quotient. While I enjoyed it, I didn’t love it. I think the hype ruined it for me, as I had mighty high expectations going into this.  25-year-old econometrician Stella has autism; she’s high functioning but has trouble with social skills and intimacy, amongst other issues. Her mother wants grandbabies and pressures her to date. But Stella does not enjoy datin
But Stella does not enjoy dating, nor does she like sex.
Autistic women don’t usually show up in romances, and Hoang takes a risk with Stella’s character.
I also really liked Michael’s character; Hoang truly creates Stella’s perfect match with Michael.This is fast-paced, addictive, easy read.
I saw how everything could play out very early on the book but I was hoping that Stella and Michael’s romance would take a different path; one that is as unique as their characters.
Outside of Stella having autism, I feel like I have read books like this before.
Aww how cute is this?! I wanted to read this because of the #ownvoices autistic storyline, but hesitated for ages because...adult romance is not my thing lmao. But I was too curious not to try, so here I am and my opinion is seriously: AWW HOW CUTE IS THIS.It almost reminded me of Lara Jean x Peter Kavinsky...with the fake dating. But grown up. And with a lot of sex. And he's an escort and she's an autistic and works in economics instead. \_(ツ)_/ So um nothing alike but the FAKE DATING. It's a f
I wanted to read this because of the #ownvoices autistic storyline, but hesitated for ages because...adult romance is not my thing lmao.
I don't even LIKE solely-romance books but I was just flipping pages, teeth gritted, whispering, "They better frikkin work out or else I love them too much."And the autism rep nearly made me cry with how perfect it was.
If you want to read a book to really see what it's like being an autistic woman = CHOOSE THIS ONE.This book has given me all mushy feels.
(But like...a lot of sex lmao.
10 perfect stars!Review & Excerpt at Of Pens and Pages. All the things that make you different make you perfect.” I am in love. The Kiss Quotient is a beautiful and realistic debut novel that breaks stereotypes, embraces uniqueness, and makes one think about their self-worth. It’s the kind of book that will make you smile, swoon, tear up, and think. I was on cloud nine when I finished it. It’s been a few days since I finished reading this book, and I’m still on a high! I haven’t read anythin
Not a man with a past he continues to escape.As they go on with Love and Relationship 101, Stella and Michael learn so much more than what’s in their lesson plan.
This book made me tear up more than once because of Stella and Michael and how perfect they are for each other.
I’m looking forward to getting to know Khai in The Bride Test!With an engaging writing, amazing chemistry, and relatable characters you’ll fall in love with, The Kiss Quotient is a book you need to read.
I pretty much loved it.So the setup goes like this.
An autistic econometritian unable to form relationships and under pressure from her mom to start a family hires a male escort to teach how to “be good at sex” so she knows how to attract and keep a man.
If you’ve read romances or at least watched Pretty Woman, you can see what happens next.
The escort Stella hires is hot and fun, and most importantly, kind.You know how you read something soul-crushing like Cat Person  or that notorious recap of a date with Aziz Ansari  and get nauseous and depressed?
That wasn't me, really.People, i just reread this book and i swear i want to reread it AGAIN i think i understand Stella's obsession now.
(In a fangirling way, not a creepy way i swear)  Original trashy review :  " I like you better than calculus, and math is the only thing that unites the universe."You've got to admit that this was the cutest nerdy confession you ever heard.The Kiss Quotient  is an outstanding, refreshing, cute, hot romance and i find that very hard to find.
"I am obsessed with you, Michael," she confessed.
This is said to be heartwarming but it took awhile to get there for me. This was an exploration of an autistic women's sexual awakening. Eye opening for me, but still extremely steamy and just a good romance.
“I don't want just a night or a week or a month with you. I want you all the time. I like you better than calculus, and math is the only thing that unites the universe.”  Story ⭐⭐⭐⭐ Asperger Syndrome - a developmental disorder characterized by severely impaired social skills, repetitive behaviors, and often, a narrow set of interests, but not involving delayed development of linguistic and cognitive abilities  Readers often criticize that there isn’t enough representation of certain characters
I like you better than calculus, and math is the only thing that unites the universe.”  Story ⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️ Asperger Syndrome - a developmental disorder characterized by severely impaired social skills, repetitive behaviors, and often, a narrow set of interests, but not involving delayed development of linguistic and cognitive abilities  Readers often criticize that there isn’t enough representation of certain characters in books.
More drama.Character ⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️ “He has a mixed Vietnamese and Swedish heritage, that makes him look like the K-Drama star Daniel Henney.”  Because I didn’t have a clue who that person above is, I googled him and found this: And whoah (that’s the second time is said that) my imagination was right, Michael is a really good looking and handsome character.
This is an own voices romance with a female lead on the autism spectrum, and the entire plot setup revolves around her commitment to becoming better at sex.
Stella has never had a boyfriend before, and as their relationship changes, she has to learn how to navigate through all the social interactions that come with that: meeting Michael's friends, his family, going out to strange places with him.
This book, while definitely heavy on the internal conflict toward the end, never felt like that.
Because Stella and Michael's voices are both so separate and unique and relatable that I got why they were having trouble communicating.
THIS WAS THE BEST. Michael reminded me SO MUCH of my husband and the romance was killer omg everyone go read this!
Maybe have to spruce it up a bit.or a lot.But the main thing is that you want it to have low mileage.
Maybe not too many previous owners, right?Well, if our hero, Michael, was a used car, he'd be this:That's right, he'd be a soup kitchen.
mileage.I know, I'm sooooo mean!
Poor little hooker Michael didn't mean to fuck half of the cougars in California.
We all even have times where we need more money than we currently have and it's important.
5+++++ STARS  I don’t want just a night or a week or a month with you. I want you all the time. I like you better than calculus, and math is the only thing that unites the universe.”   There's only one way to summarize my feelings for this book, and that's to tell you that it's an ABSOLUTE FREAKING MUST READ. The Kiss Quotient was quite possibly the most charming, addictingly satisfying romance I’ve read all year! It was everything. ALL OF THE THINGS. And I’m on cloud 9 after finishing it! I don
There's only one way to summarize my feelings for this book, and that's to tell you that it's an ABSOLUTE FREAKING MUST READ.
I don’t even know what I’ll do with myself now because nothing could ever compare to the ultimate perfection that was this unique and wonderful story full feels and steam.
Nothing I could say could possibly do it justice, but I'll try.The heroine: Stella LaneHow I loved her.
And so she gets that, when she hires an escort to guide her through the art of dating and relationships.The hero: Michael PhanGah!
But I absolutely loved the way he was with Stella.
(ALSO SWEDISH VIETNAMESE MALE LEAD)- stella was a REAL person and not just a diagnosis (who wasn't woe is me about it either!)- everything was on STELLA's terms...
get a grip a little bit??- douchey pervs that didn't have to meet their maker- wish there were more snippets of daily life to make the relationship a liiiiittle more fleshed out- that's literally it, i'm not satan in a sundress today folks, this book rocked in general, i think you will love this if you feel like you haven't met your "person" yet or if you have and are really really happy about it.
thanks book, for having both.********************buddy read with a fellow romance loving pal, haley!
