https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/531989.Drown
- it's not just another painting-by-numbers from Motown, it's not just another sneery too-clever construction you skip while you're trying to find Once in a Lifetime, Juno Diaz' tales from the front line of squalour and immigration aren't just another vicarious thrillseeking tour of Poverty-and-Ignorance Hell, not just another wound-baring stigmata-showing howl from yet more people from yet another abyss you wish you didn't know about.
They're that too, just like This Old Heart of Mine is a great dance number, but there's this thing called an authentic voice, or whatever the term is.
There is something within that facelessness, which makes the person all the more visible--scorned, pitied, hated, feared, and by some, treated with great kindness.
There is nothing in seeing his face that makes them feel better about themselves.
Then when the reader sees the world from his point of view in "No Face," we understand that though he is deformed and maligned there is still great hope and beauty in his world, though he might not realize it.
So Ysrael stands for the best hope of all of the faceless within these stories--and the message is to keep going, keep running, keep moving forward no matter how people will push you down and try to keep you from being seen.
Yeah, yeah, once you get the Pulitzer your earlier works may be scavenged & retold and republished and possibly (if you ARE the literatti:) re-read.This is my first foray into the infamous short story terrain animated by Junot Diaz.
An autobiography of ten short stories that are exquisite maps into the writer's early life in the D.R. and in America.
This is extremely doable.I am aware that Junot Diaz is a super competent storyteller, but he does subscribe to this Dominican Man attitudes toward women and about how owning things (including, well, women) makes you a man.
Objectification, to an extent, but when white's the standard of beauty and safety and the Dominican Republic's the name of the game, either you talk imperialism and intercommunity issues or you're just another colonial savior brat looking to save the brown women from the brown men in the name of divide and conquer.
Listening to tapes allows me one opportunity--one time only--to experience the writing.
I need to look at the physical words--they mean something.
I need to put the book down and figure out which of the characters in my life most closely represent the characters I'm reading in the book.
Your reading experience, I suspect, occurs in a similar manner.But not with books on tape.
I don't understand why I can listen to a lecture (or a performance or music or see a painting) and retain the information I need, but I cannot have books read to me.
Exactly like his writing.
His street talk and easy manner reminded me of the slick Mexican kids I grew up with(with due respect for the differences in Latino cultures).
Because of the archetypical nature of these stories it felt like a wild biography, and I had to remind myself that they were only stories.
His writing style, once again very much like his speech, was clear and easy, if a little unconventional, and I had to backpedal here or there to get the gist.
Full review to followHe’s an amazing writer but the story wasn’t nearly as captivating as brief and wondrous life so I couldn’t give it the full 4 stars.
The cursor keeps blinking at me, daring me to try and convey the magnitude of love I have for Diaz's writing but I can't...I'm a failure! Every story needs is filled with sentences/dialogue that are gaspably good. My fovorite sentence in the collection is from the story, How To Date a Brown Girl, Black Girl, White Girl or Halfie. It is as follows:"Run a hand through your hair, like the white boys do, even though the only thing that runs easily through your hair is Africa".See what I mean?!
Video-review: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=tSavj...Stories of cultures clashing and life sucking between the Dominican Republic and New Jersey. The stories are hard-hitting and Diaz writes like a motherfucker - almost too well for a project so simple.
This book is made out of short stories, but they all explore Yunior's experience as a Dominican Republic immigrant, his relationship with his family, the idea of masculinity, race and women.
The writing makes this book stand out, Yunior's life being a fairly average one.
I like to compare Ysrael ("he who struggles with God") and Yunior (son struggling with his father's legacy).It's a little silly to rate them individually since they are too connected, but out of force of habit, I did it.
It reminded me a litte of Sherman Alexie's stories, albeit a little less poetic.
We discussed "How To Date A Browngirl, Blackgirl, Whitegirl, or Halfie" at particular length in my fiction writing class, so I'll quote one of my favorite bits from that story: "Clear the government cheese from the refrigerator.
Someone asked him a really complicated question about his writing process or something, and he spent a minute trying to think of a way to answer that, and then he just laughed and said, "I don't know.
I remember being bummed because I was going to have to deal with the emotional fallout of this after class, but at the same time vindicated, because he finally said what I never had the guys to say.My favorite memories of Junot are of him pleading with students to see a particular point of view, to demonstate it, cries of exultation when they did, his cursing, frustrated stammering, or a telling smile and tilt of the head while he was waiting for someone to finish saying something really stupid.
Not exactly OCD, but the nuns can certainly be proud of the order they instilled.
So I can’t explain why, when I open a book of short stories for the first time, I do not read them in order.
I jumped around here, although I did read the final story last.
Book closed, I think I would have been better served reading the stories in the order presented.
Just because as things unravel, I will know where to find you.Thanks once again to Goodreads Giveaways.
read during my Punk Rock Flophouse YearsI Remember: linked stories about growing up in the Dominican Republic and then New Jersey... a writing style that is rather tight, clean, stripped-down, deadpan... i would have preferred a looser, rowdier writing style... a narrative that is alive and fresh, with scenes that should jump off the page, and sometimes do... feels real... some surprising charm, many laugh-out-loud moments... and yet it feels somehow minor note - i guess that's life... oh no, am i getting a little bored now?... ah well, it is still a worthy effort.
4.5 starsI'm really amazed at Junot Diaz's ability to create such a richly imagined and realistic history of a fictional character. Yunior, the central character of most, if not all, of these short stories, appears in Diaz's other works, This Is How You Lose Her and The Brief Wondrous Life of Oscar Wao. I think this shows remarkable skill for a debut collection, and to have all this story built up in his mind that flows over into his other works is amazing.I definitely recommend starting with this collection if you are looking into reading anything by Junot Diaz.
These stories - about Yunior and his family in the Dominican Republic and New Jersey are so, so good. In a shattering, explosive way. Now that I've read his three books, I just hope Diaz publishes another novel or short story collection soon.
Trying to separate Diaz’s at-times honest efforts from the hysterical effect they have on certain literary types is hard sledding.
That makes this book a somewhat more honest, if less refined, effort.Much of Diaz’s success – like most writers’ success – returns, in some part, to good fortune and timing.
Diaz is a talented author who may just surprise us with an enduring work before he’s through.If not, his works will serve as a good counterargument to the next generation of literary types who tell us Latino authors were never given a chance until (insert literary movement here) came along.

Just freaking wow!!!I picked this book up because I enjoyed The Brief Wondrous Life of Oscar Wao. When I started to read it, I thought that this felt like a handful of failed starts to similar novels.
But the further that I read into it, the more I realized what it was that Junot Diaz was doing, painting a complete picture out of multiple fractured pieces.
Diaz fills that space in an odd, non-linear way through the conversation and through the narrative from the characters in completely random fashion.
This is a very strong debut collection.
Díaz’s prose is a real pleasure to read, his characters are interesting and multi-dimensional, and his stories are well crafted.
My favorites were perhaps Fiesta, 1980 and Negocios, but almost all of the stories were good to very good.The Brief Wondrous Life of Oscar Wao is one of my favorite Pulitzer winners of the 21st century.
These ten stories don't deliver quite the same mix of humor and emotional punch that made Oscar Wao so special, but they are quite strong.
Fans of Díaz's later work, or of good short fiction in general, will enjoy this collection.
4.5 starsI think this is some of the finest prose I've ever read. The fact that Drown is a debut book blows my mind. The stories feel honest, sometimes brutally so; the characters, from the repeated protagonist and narrator, Yunior, to Yunior's father, to the woman in "Edison, New Jersey," seem like fully realized human beings; and Diaz's mastery of language is astounding, not only his code-switching, but the innovative English phrasing as well.I can't wait to make my way through Diaz's other two books, not to mention whatever he publishes in the future.
His father is much the same; (although ultimately more a villain) a figure of domination and pain upon his family until we are given 'Negocios', which seems to contradict much of what we know of the character.
This is all fine, characters just like people can change, but there is no reason given.
Also, I wonder how it is Yunior even knows these stories.
His father hardly talked to him, and treated him even less like a son, so I have to wonder how it is Yunior learned any of this from a man who beat his family and cheated openly on their mother.
at some points, i really enjoyed this book. but i just couldn't get past the way a lot of the female characters are treated. maybe i just didn't get it, but i would have liked to read a story about the mother's experiences, more so than about the cheating father
This was an interesting collection. More of a mosaic novel, really. While I didn't particularly love any of the individual stories, they were all beautifully written, and all gradually cohered together into a single larger piece that had a great deal of power. Definitely a "whole is greater than the sum of its parts" situation. I'd been avoiding this book for years because I really hated the Oscar Wao book, but this was everything that book was not: tight & emotionally focused. Felt silly for not having believed people who told me this was good. It's good!
I know this review will in no way do any of his work justice…but I’ll take a stab at it anyway, if only for the fact that a writer like this deserves the time and effort.I’ll start with Yunior, simply because he is the heart of this book.
What’s wonderful about this book, and Diaz’s writing, is that you’re not allowed to do that without at least first delving a little bit deeper under the surface.Yunior and his family are complicated people (then again, aren’t most of us?) and though his forays into drugs, women, theft, etc.
He already is big but is going to get better and better and better I imagine.
I was reminded of something while reading this book - great literature doesn't necessarily make us cheer for the characters from the sidelines.
After reading this I feel like I have nothing to complain about.
People who go through this kind of hardship come out the other side, if at all, like some hard, brutal desert flower that manages to survive in the desert of life.Great book.
A great read.
This is most probably the best book I have read this year.
I had never been sad more than a few hours and the thought of that sensation lasting a lifetime scared the hell out of me."."Mami must have caught me studying her because she stopped what she was doing and gave me a smile, maybe her first one of the night.
She didn't want to hear nothing about our problems, the scratches we'd put into our knees, who said what.
Sometimes I climbed the guanábana tree and when she'd open her eyes and catch me smiling down on her, she'd close them again and I would drop twigs onto her until she laughed."."Homegirl was too beautiful, too high-class for a couple of knuckleheads for us.
As usual, Junot Diaz's writing style is just great.
I found this aspect made the prose flow nicely and seamlessly.We really learn a lot about Yunior through these stories- his experiences, his family and in many ways get to understand why he acts the way he does.
I feel like either Yunior and his family should not have had such a large focus, or the whole book should have been about them.
I decided to bump it up to 4/5 mostly for the style, and how much I enjoyed Yunior's stories.
These are well written stories.
I think what I come away with is a great read about people's sorrows and hard times while trying to make themselves better.
However, Diaz so adroitly writes these stories that I did not feel depressed or maudlin reading any of them.
He writes the stories, bam, you have it this is what it is.
No apologies, no synpathy required.Diaz appears to say, "this was the times, this is the way it was.
I think that it takes an excellent author to accomplish this fete.
Ten short stories where Díaz focuses on the struggles, frustrations, anger and needs faced by poor immigrant Dominican boys, young men, and adult males, both in the Dominican Republic and in New Jersey. The world of Drown is rough, violent, poor, and seemingly hopeless. The book is an intensely raw and realistic. Diaz is so talented that he breaks easily and often out of a first person narration. Rather than confusing the reader his style of writing brings clarity to his characters.
