https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/64097.Spark_of_Life
Spark of LifeRemarque knows how to transcribe a dramatic era with a clear and simple style. So, yes, they are dated books, but that's what makes it so good. A beautiful novel.
"A Time to Love and A Time to Die" is more of a love story, a close-third POV limited to a single German soldier on leave -- like EMR knew he had something good with the Allied bombings but wanted to zoom-in on its effect on a single story/character after this one's roving POV, accessing the thoughts of dozens of prisoners, kapos, guards, SS, and townsfolk, although it primarily focuses on a prisoner known only as 509 for three quarters of the novel and the SS concentration camp commander, a former postal clerk.
I am becoming a huge Remarque fan. Spark of Life is thoughtful and powerful writing. The story illustrates the enormity of the tragedy we know as the holocaust and if you want to be moved by a book, that will happen when you read this one for sure. A sad tale and a wake up call in one amazingly well written novel. The story is even sadder with the knowledge that the author's sister Elfreide, to whom the book is dedicated, was beheaded by the nazis.
And when it finally comes, with the Allies taking the camp over, the reader, like the captives, also feels a liberation from the torture of the story.The story takes place in a concentration/labour camp (not an extermination camp) at the end of the war in the "too weak to work" section.
Each attack, each time he witnesses the loss of something he earned cowardly, his shops, his family and finally his beloved garden, Obersturmbannführer Bruno Neubauer not only feels stronger and stronger that his adored Führer and all his puppets, like Weber, is loosing the War, but that all that he has done was perhaps not "ein Befehl", that all the suffering he caused was also his fault.As always, Remarque does not point out a hero and a bad guy.
Beglückt ihm Sinne, dass Remarque 1952 dieses komplexe wie schwere Thema mit seinem Roman öffentlich zur Sprache bringt, während ein Großteil der deutschen Bevölkerung versuchte, diese historische Wahrheit zu umgehen, statt es konstruktiv für sich selbst und nachfolgende Generationen aufzuarbeiten.
Regelrecht mitgenommen haben mich insbesondere die Szene des grauenhaften "Schildkrötenrennens" vor dem Tor des Lagers sowie der Augenblick, als die Häftlinge, nun durch amerikanische Soldaten befreit, zum ersten Mal jeder in einem eigenen Bett mit einer Decke und einem Kissen schlafen durften.Lange Rede kurzer Sinn: Es ist ein Meisterwerk und Remarque möge mir meine Sprachlosigkeit verzeihen!
The first published post-WWII Holocaust novel. After its publication there was a great deal of criticism of Remarque for having written a novel about things he had never personally experienced. But I doubt that there are many literary treatments of this human tragedy that are as poignant or relevant.
Na tuto knizku som nasla odporucanie na jednom mamickovskom portali (ano, je to Modry konik a ano, je tam uzasna skupina o knihach).Pribeh poslednych tydnov jedneho koncentracneho tabora pred oslobodenim.
Pribeh tych, ktori prezili v taboroch najdlhsie.
Pribeh tych, ktori uz vedeli "ako to chodi", pribeh o tych, ktori uz nedufali, len sa mechanicky naucili starat ako skupina o seba...
pribeh o tych, ktori zrazu zacitili sancu.
Sancu, ze po tych rokoch pride koniec.O tych to je.
Ale je to aj o tych, ktori boli na druhej strane, pre mna velmi dobre vystihnute uvazovanie niektorych nacistov.Napisane je to putavo, bez zbytocne dlhych opisov, ale ani prilis sucho a stroho.
One of the most impressive Remarque books. The harshest, I would say, and as usual incredibly touching.
Това беше една от най-мачкащите книги, които съм чела.
Колко много хора е имало, има и винаги ще има, които са слаби.
Просто не искам да си представя какво е да умираш от глад и болести, когато, отивайки в магазина на празник, се сблъскваш с някакви хора, които ядат като за последно.
А какво да говорим за онези "all inclusive"...Както винаги не коментирам много самата книга, важни са ми мислите и емоциите...И накрая е най-тежко - какво да правим със свободата си?Препоръчвам да се чете, защото, ако се абстрахираме от историческите събития, животът не е само цветя и рози..
"- Рут – каза той след някое време. – Когато човек започне от нищо, като нас, мисля, че пред него лежи още твърде много щастие."...
Lạnh lùng và chi tiết, Erich Maria Remarque mô tả trại tập trung – một nơi mà ta không dám tin đã từng tồn tại trong lịch sử – khiến người đọc không khỏi rùng mình, ngay cả danh tính của trại tập trung cũng không được ông đề cập, phải chăng ông muốn nói rằng, đây là thảm cảnh đã diễn ra ở hơn 12.000 trại tập trung trải dài khắp châu Âu của Đức quốc xã, không nơi nào là ngoại lệ? Bài viết đầy đủ của mình: https://docsach.org/2017/11/02/lua-th...
Remarque is certainly not a light read, but a very readable one.
One thing about him that I find most interesting is the way he shows human adaptability - the everyday life in situations most people would not even begin to imagine.
Be it the front in WW I or longterm prisoners in a concentration camp, even the worst things do end up shaping some kind of routine around them, no matter how terrible, and humans seem to grow used to things that they would not be able to imagine in normal circumstances.
Remarque left me speechless ... again. Can't even write a review.
Best book Eric Maria Remarque wrote, in my opinion. I've read it many times since highschool, most recently last week.
Mus žemino; bet mes nesame pažeminti. Pažeminti tie, kurie taip elgėsi.E. M. Remarque, ,,Gyvybės kibirkštis" (2007)
I thought this book was very moving. The most humbling book I have ever read.
Nuk ka review, që të përshkruajë ashtu siç vërtet duhet, emocionet dhe ndjesitë që të përçon ky libër.Vetëm një shkrimtar i madh si, Erich Maria Remarque, mund të shkruajë një libër të tillë, pa qenë në ndonjë kamp përqëndrimi. Me detaje dhe peripeci të frikshme deri në dhimbje.Dhe vetëm një përkthyes po aq i madh si Robert Shvarc ,mund të arrijë të përcjellë ato ndjesi dhe emocione pa i cënuar aspak. (duke ditur peripecitë që ka kaluar përkthyesi deri sa ky libër pa dritë botimi në vitin 1978)
Tegelikult on sellest raamatust päris keeruline midagi arvata.
Polnud enne sellest midagi kuulnud, aga mul on päris hea meel, et see mu öökapile sattus :)Kuigi raamat on olemuselt sünge, on see siiski väga kaasahaarav ja raske on seda käest panna.
Tahad kogu aeg teada, mis tegelastest siis lõpuks saab.Head lugemist!Elu – ükskõik mis moodi, täitanult, purukspekstult, verisena -, kõigest hoolimata elu.
„Mõnikord sureb sada ja sa ei tunne midagi, ning siis sureb üksainus - üks, kes sulle eriti kordagi ei lähe – ja tundub, nagu sureksid tuhanded.
Tunne suudab alati vaid üheni lugeda.
Üks – aga kui seda tõeliselt tajuda, siis sellest piisab.“Eile oli ammu.
Every bit as graphic and grotesque in it's unflinching realism as 'All quiet...', and yet, equally as eloquent, arresting and poignant in it's poetical moments that contrast starkly with the harshness of the subject matter.Life went on in the camps and despite all, the debasement, the evil and cruelty, life, hope and humanity prevailed.A little known classic of WW11 literature.
Spark of Life puts you in a journey of emotions, sometimes brings you up, sometimes brings you down. It lets us see the real human nature, what are we capable of doing just to survive. In what do we turn to, how life seems so valuable and how hope is the only thing that makes you go through hell. Loved it from the first page until the last one. Defenitly a must read once in life.
We all know about what happened in WWII and what happened in the concentration camps...but this shocked me anyway. This book is about the prisoners inside a concentration camp and the spark of life that keeps them going.
There was nothing to be said. He was deaf within himself. He no longer had any feelings left. Neither for others nor for himself. Everything was over; he knew it but he didn’t feel it yet. He felt only that he didn’t feel anything.
I didn't look that up yet either to see if it's true, but it doesn't sound true and I don't think Kramer sounds any more Jewish than my name, but I can't think of any name that sounds particularly Jewish for that matter, so I'm moving on.The novel which I'm supposed to be talking about but haven't gotten around to yet is Spark of Life and is set in the fictional Mellern concentration/labor camp during the Holocaust.
Of course when it's no longer possible -"Yes, Neubauer who is always making excuses for the horrible things he does:"He could have gotten more out of life if only he hadn't been such a faithful family man.
This has been by far one of the worst reading experiences I've had in a while.
It took me a great deal of will to read it through, the only thing that kept me going was my inability to quit on books, even when they are awfully boring.
It pains me to part with Remarque, as we've had a wonderful run so far, but I won't be buying one of his books any time soon.
Also, after having a nightmare where I was stepping on corpses while running from bombings I decided that I might have to put raw history fiction aside for a while and read something more uplifting.
I couldn't get into this book due to the old and clunky translation to Dutch. To be honest, I mostly bought it because of the cover art by Dick Bruna, but decided to read it because it meshed nicely with A Man's Search for Meaning. Reading this was a struggle for me. Hopefully I'll be able to pick this one up in English.
সাবলীল অনুবাদ বুলবুল সরওয়ারের। "... এভাবেই শুরু হওয়া উচিৎ, বুচার ভাবে। একেবারে গোড়া থেকেই। তিকততা, সমৃতি আর ঘৃণা দিয়ে নয়। সবচেয়ে সহজ জিনিস, বেঁচে আছি, এই অনুভূতি দিয়েই।..." [পৃঃ৪৫০]
সাবলীল অনুবাদ বুলবুল সরওয়ারের। "... এভাবেই শুরু হওয়া উচিৎ, বুচার ভাবে। একেবারে গোড়া থেকেই। তিক্ততা, স্মৃতি আর ঘৃণা দিয়ে নয়। সবচেয়ে সহজ জিনিস, বেঁচে আছি, এই অনুভূতি দিয়েই।..." [পৃঃ৪৫০]
"- Komunistas? - paklausėNr. 509 papurtė galvą.- Socialdemokratas?- Ne.- Tai as? Juk turi kas nors būti.Nr. 509 pakėlė akis. Paakių oda dar mirgėjo nuo kraujosrūvų. Todėl akys atrodė šviesesnės; beveik skaidrios jos spindėjo liepsnos šviesoje, tarsi būtų buvę ne šitame tamsiame sudaužytame veide.- Triupinėlis žmogaus.. jei tau šito pakanka."
Kniha, která se nečte moc dobře (ne, že by byla špatně napsaná, to snad ani Remarque neuměl... jen to téma není dvakrát povzbudivé).Oproti jiným Remarquovým knihám chybí děj, vše se soustřeďuje pouze na přežití v koncentračním táboře. Jsem rád, že jsem tu dobu nezažil a snad nikdy nezažiju.
O que lemos está muito além e acima daquilo que parece possível suportar, descrito sem pudor nem comiseração mas com um tremendo respeito pela vida humana, pela resiliência do homem em situações extremas, para além de extremas, por essa espécie de integridade que leva os homens a unirem-se quando tudo faz prever que seja cada um por si na luta pela sobrevivência.
Atravessa todo o texto essa centelha da vida de que fala o título, na capacidade para simplesmente resistir antes de se prever a chegada dos Aliados, numa esperança atemorizadora depois de se perceber que está para breve o fim.
Despair and hope.Those are the two conflicting themes in the book "Spark of life".The book is set in Mellern concentration camp in Nazi Germany towards the end of the Second World War.509 is the main charachter and one of the longest serving inmates in the camp.He himself prefers to be called "509",a number given by the camp authority,because his real name reminds him of his life as a free man.The others are Joseph Bucher (the son of a left-wing editor), Ruth Holland (Bucher’s girlfriend), Old Ahasver (an aged survivor of several camps), Leo Lebenthal (a former businessman), and Karel, a Czechoslovakian boy whose parents have died in Nazi gas chambers.The main antagonists are the SS officers Neubauer and Weber who are in charge of the camp and the extermination of the prisoners.
