https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/16360.Murder_in_Mesopotamia
One of the best rereads I've ever chanced upon.
Few books of Agatha Christie's reserves are so unputdownable.
The cast of characters in the book are not to be taken lightly.
I loved the easygoing pace of the book.The victim is so vibrant when pages away from death.
The author's attempt to drum up sympathy for the victim was a success for me.
This is how a bestseller sounded like in those days.
Viewed from the lens of nurse Leatheran, he appears quaint, like a genie about to grant 3 wishes to his master.
Props to the author.
Nothing significant to add...lovely little book.
I decided to make Murder in Mesopotamia featuring Hercule Poirot my first Christie read of this calendar year to see how much of an influence the region had on her writing.Nurse Amy Leatheran is approached by a Dr. Leidner to care for his wife Louise on site at his archeological dig in Mesopotamia.
Continuing to use his deductive reasoning skills, Poirot unravels the identity of both the murderer and mysterious letter writer.Amy Leatheran is meant to be Christie as she was a nurse during the first war before becoming the queen of crime, and she spent time in Baghdad to recover from a difficult first marriage.
Only when Hercule Poirot is introduced into the story do we see classic elements of mystery fiction brought to the forefront.Amy Leatheren is a young nurse asked to accompany an archaeological expedition to the Middle East.
And they can see in the actions of the beautiful Louise, that she is almost "begging" to be murdered, while oblivious to the danger.While the solution is wildly intricate and implausible, the presence of Hercule Poirot, a fun and likable heroine in Amy Leatheren, and tons of atmosphere make for a nice mystery read.
Agatha Christie married archaeologist Max Mallowan in 1930 (she was 40, he was only 26 -- Go Agatha!) and thereafter spent months at a time every year (with the exception of some years during WWII) in the Middle East on digs.
As she had used her knowledge gained from working in a dispensary during WWI to write very clever murders done by poisoning, she now used her experience in Iraq to write a character study of the interplay of personalities on an archaeological dig.
The characters of Dr. Eric Leidner and his wife Louise were based on people Christie knew in real life, famous archaeologist Leonard Woolley and his wife Katherine.
Max Mallowan worked under Woolley for several years.
Only your charge, the lovely Louise Leidner, impresses you.
Despite being a real trouble-magnet, she's quite a take-charge sort of woman!
But Dr. Poirot has entered the operating theater and you find you enjoy your new role as his surgical assistant.
And whatever can a priggish, judgmental, vaguely racist, and rather misogynist nurse like yourself do to help solve such a mystery?If you decide that modern Africa is for bitches and prats, and you'd rather take a voyage back in time, choosehttps://www.goodreads.com/review/show...If you decide that modern Africa is best experienced as a voyage on a lovely boat with some lovely people, choosehttps://www.goodreads.com/review/show...
Από τα αγαπημένα μου. Πολύ έξυπνη εκδοχή του μυστηρίου του "κλειστού δωματίου", ενδιαφέροντες χαρακτήρες και μια απολαυστική αφηγήτρια με δηκτικό χιούμορ.
Looks like am on my annual Christie's pilgrimage.
Re-living and loving my most favourite ones.
I have lost count how many times iv read this one, a great example of a crime passionnel.
The first time I read this story, it touched my teenager soul.
I suppose after a decade and a half my not so naive soul still isn't immune to it :DAll the stars and a few more to this one.P.S: In the end of the story Poirot says, he plans for a restful journey of peace and quite on The Orient Express.
Hah!
The plot is based in Iraq and has many archaeological references. In typical Christie style, a murder is committed, there are few suspects and then Poirot with his psychological reasoning figures out the real culprit. There is a strange case of poisoning by hydro chloric acid. Overall nothing spectacular about the story line. Average read
***2018 Summer of Spies*** It must have been the exotic Middle Eastern location, but this Hercule Poirot mystery really made me think about M.M. Kaye’s series of mysteries, set in similarly foreign settings. Last summer, I read both Death in Zanzibar and Death in Cyprus, and I have a feeling that Murder in Mesopotamia may have been one of the influences on Kaye. Perhaps it was the English nurse as narrator—an Englishwoman in an alien environment, applying her standards of judgement to the event
Last summer, I read both Death in Zanzibar and Death in Cyprus, and I have a feeling that Murder in Mesopotamia may have been one of the influences on Kaye.
Christie fools me more often than any other mystery writer that I’ve encountered so far.
You can taste the dust and feel the heat as you read.I could also appreciate her confidence as a writer.
This is a Poirot mystery, but the man himself doesn’t appear until well into the book and we see him only through the eyes of Nurse Leatheran.
Altogether a very skillfully assembled mystery story, perfect for summer reading.
This was one book where I could immediately see who the murderer was, but for the life of me could not guess how it was carried out! But after Poirot explains it all, it seems so logical and obvious.I also liked the narrator's impersonal, detached voice.
“In the name of Allah, the Merciful, the Compassionate…”Wonderful, absolutely wonderful.
But the crime and the solution are absolutely wonderful, full of passions, obsessions, schemes...
PS not concerning the story itself: the suggested reading order issued by agathachristie.com (you can find it here) recommends that you read Murder on the Orient Express before Murder in Mesopotamia.
Having read the Orient Express years ago, I was curious to find out the reason of such recommendation, and was surprised to find out that in truth it should say the opposite: at the end of Murder in Mesopotamia, indeed, we read that “M.
Your typical Agatha Christie book.
I grew up reading Agatha Christie and watching movies based on her books.
I want an audio where I hear a narrator read a book to me.
They spoke quickly, often times making it difficult for me to figure out who was who.
There was background noise most of the time.
Things such as people chatting in the background, music, whistles from trains, and at one point some bugs making noise (which at first the sound was so odd I thought something 'went wrong' in the house somewhere.
It was just too much and too distracting.I do plan to read more by Agatha Christie.
3,5 προς 4*Η πρώτη περιπέτεια με τον Ηρακλή Πουαρό που διαβάζω και μου άρεσε πολύ!Η υπόθεση έξυπνη,οι χαρακτήρες ενδιαφέροντες και το βιβλίο καλογραμμένο.Γενικά, ό,τι πρέπει για αστυνομικό.Είχα μόνο ένα πρόβλημα:είναι γραμμένο σε μορφή απομνημονευμάτων της νοσοκόμας Έιμυ Λέδεραν..η οποία μου φάνηκε άκρως αντιπαθητική!!Ήταν αρκετά ενοχλητικό να βλέπω τα γεγονότα μέσα από τα δικά της μάτια ορισμένες φορές,ειδικά όταν περιέγραφε την ανασκαφή και τα ευρήματα υποτιμητικά.Λίγο ρατσίστρια,λίγο ξερόλα,λίγο 30άρα που έχει απόψεις 70άρας,απορώ αν μπορεί να τη συμπαθήσει κανένας.Συνολικά πάντως μου άρεσε πολύ και θα συνεχίσω με τον συμπαθέστατο ντετέκτιβ!
Hercule in Iraq24 May 2016 Well, now that I've learnt a little bit of French I have discovered that Poirot's little sayings make more sense (such as Eh Bein, which means ah good). Okay, it isn't as if the entire book is in French, or that Christie overuses the phrases, but for some reason, until I actually started studying the language Poirot's occasional outbursts were a little meaningless (despite the fact that most of the time logic should probably dictate what those words actually mean, thou
Okay, it isn't as if the entire book is in French, or that Christie overuses the phrases, but for some reason, until I actually started studying the language Poirot's occasional outbursts were a little meaningless (despite the fact that most of the time logic should probably dictate what those words actually mean, though for some reason when it comes to language logic seems, at times, to get thrown out of the window and we simply close our minds to the fact that while something may be written in another language, it doesn't necessarily mean that we are not able to understand it).
Still I'm probably going a little bit to deep on this aspect because, well, it is an Agatha Christie novel and it is more about the mystery than actually trying to re-create a real murder – that is what True Crime is for.
She doesn't want affairs.
She's the sort of woman who's never had a row with anyone in her life--but rows always happen where she is!
She makes them happen.
But she doesn't want to be involved herself.
She's always outside pulling strings--looking on--enjoying it!”Murder in Mesopotamia is one of the really good Agatha Christie novels.
She is very British and presented in the classic Agatha Christie style: half in earnest - half poking fun at her own people.The mystery is very clever and the way AC builds up tension and presents the atmosphere is superb.Very much recommended.
In true Christie fashion, the solution is preposterous - a second murder hinges on the killer's ability to trust that a sleepy person will just guzzle down a whole glass of acid without noticing, and the killer's secret identity is just offensively bad (I'll leave it vague to avoid spoilers, but any contemporary reader will be disgusted at the disguise).
This is a classic Agatha Christie novel - a little slow, mildly offensive throughout, designed to be flipped through over the course of an evening or two without much thought.
قتل در بینالنهرین کتابی به قلم آگاتا کریستی، جنایی نویس مشهور انگلیسی و نوشته شده در سال ۱۹۷۳ است.از پرستاری به نام امی لدران دعوت میشود که برای مدتی پرستاری زنی به نام لوئیز لایدنر که همراه همسر باستانشناسش و گروه تحقیقاتی او را در عراق به عهده بگیرد. لایدنر زنی مرموز است که بیشک از مرحوم همسر اول خود که گمان میبرد هنوز زندهاست واهمه دارد. اما این ترس که مورد تمسخر دیگران بوده به حقیقت پیوسته و وی به قتل میرسد. در این میان هرکول پوآرو به میان آمده و این موضوع را پیگیری میکند و... .
قتل در بین‌النهرین کتابی به قلم آگاتا کریستی، جنایی نویس مشهور انگلیسی و نوشته شده در سال ۱۹۷۳ است.از پرستاری به نام امی لدران دعوت می‌شود که برای مدتی پرستاری زنی به نام لوئیز لایدنر که همراه همسر باستان‌شناسش و گروه تحقیقاتی او را در عراق به عهده بگیرد. لایدنر زنی مرموز است که بی‌شک از مرحوم همسر اول خود که گمان می‌برد هنوز زنده‌است واهمه دارد. اما این ترس که مورد تمسخر دیگران بوده به حقیقت پیوسته و وی به قتل می‌رسد. در این میان هرکول پوآرو به میان آمده و این موضوع را پیگیری می‌کند و... .
She says, “I’m not a writer, it’s not going to be literary,” but as it is the first female narrator, Nurse Amy helps anticipate the charm of her Miss Marple mysteries.The lead archaeologist of the expedition is the world-renowned Dr. Leidner, accompanied by his charming and vivacious wife, “Lovely Louise.” But she seems nervous.
And because murder is a habit, will the murderer kill again?At one point Poirot observes with Leidner that there is something that archaology has in common with solving a mystery: Both are involved in reconstructing the past.
wrong.**Poirot observes with archaeologist Leidner that there is a relationship between archaeology and solving a mystery.
I picked this one up solely because I'm trying to read books set in 80 different countries this year and I'm lagging dramatically behind, and I figured this one would be a quick way to cross Iraq off the list.
There wasn't anything particularly exciting about the story, and it's pretty clear that Christie probably wrote it while on an archaeological dig with her second husband.
It took a pretty long time to get going, but I suspect that's more because Christie was introducing all the characters and letting you get to know them a little bit so that you'd spend the second half of the book trying to work out who did it.

Ποιο είναι το παρελθόν του θύματος;;; Πολύ ύποπτοι μέσα από την ομάδα , αλλά και πιθανότητα ο δράστης να είναι τελικά κι εκτός αυτής…  Μου άρεσε πολύ η σκηνή που ο Πουαρώ , μόλις έχει αναμειχθεί με την υπόθεση , μαζεύει όλη την ομάδα των ανασκαφών και ουσιαστικά τους λέει λίγο-πολύ ότι όλοι είναι ύποπτοι, που ήταν την ώρα του φόνου και τέτοια.
Ενώ στο τέλος, που τους μαζεύει πάλι, πριν τους αποκαλύψει τον πραγματικό δολοφόνο, αναφέρει σχεδόν για όλους και από κάποιο λόγο που είχαν για να σκοτώσουν το θύμα.
Κλασικές σκηνές Πουαρώ νομίζω…Τον δολοφόνο προσωπικά δεν τον κατάλαβα έγκαιρα, ενώ είναι έξυπνος και ο τρόπος που έγινε ο φόνος, που αποκαλύπτεται κι αυτός στο τέλος.Πολύ καλό.
In Murder in Mesopotamia, Christie takes us again to a location she's very familiar with - an archaeological dig near Hassanieh, Iraq.To go into the details of this Poirot story would spoil the read for some so I won't.However, there is one question I have that has driven me nuts every single time I have read or re-read this book:How did she not know?!?!?
Leatheran was recommended to the archaeologist by the local sawbones, Dr.Giles Reilly.Mrs. Leidner, is a bit of a flirt.(She'll not be one for long).To take care of his nervous wife, Louise.
She has received threatening letters.But why?This being an Agatha Christie novel,murder will soon follow.Many suspicious characters abound in the area.The whole entourage of diggers, are full of them.Enter Hercule Poirot,he's Belgian,not a Frenchman,it annoys the great detective, to be misrepresented,and a very patriotic man, also.
To give it a little flavor.But not to much gore, Agatha Christie is or was a lady.And to all you unbelievers, a great writer too.....
مدتها بود سراغ کتابهای سبک خوشخوان و سرگرمکننده نرفته بودم. نیاز داشتم دوباره برگردم سراغ چنین کتابهایی و ببینم چطور میشه ساده حرف زد و در عین حال چیزهایی قابل تفکر و تعمق از ویژگیهای شخصیتی و روابط انسانی به تصویر کشید. چیزی که من در کارهای آگاتا کریستی دوست دارم این ایده کلیست که بسیاری از ما دلایلی و حتی تمایلی برای دست زدن به جنایت داریم. و اگرچه به واسطه محافظهکاریهامون- و نه چارچوبها و باورهای اخلاقیمون- دستمون رو به خون کسی آغشته نمیکنیم اما در قتل یک روح، در شکنجه روان و دست زدن به جنایت
چیزی که من در کارهای آگاتا کریستی دوست دارم این ایده کلی‌ست که بسیاری از ما دلایلی و حتی تمایلی برای دست زدن به جنایت داریم.
و اگرچه به واسطه محافظه‌کاری‌هامون- و نه چارچوب‌ها و باورهای اخلاقی‌مون- دستمون رو به خون کسی آغشته نمی‌کنیم اما در قتل یک روح، در شکنجه روان و دست زدن به جنایتی که کالبد رو آسیب نمی‌زنه اما روح و روان رو از بین می‌بره چیزی کم نمی‌گذاریم.
این داستان رو به طور خاص به این دلیل دوست داشتم که مقتول اصلی یکی از همین دست آدم‌هاست و همین قضیه دلسوزاندن برای مقتول رو برای من خواننده هم سخت می‌کنه و هم سبب می‌شه من از توان جنایت‌های پنهانی که هر کداممون می‌تونیم انجام بدیم بترسم.
Πολύ ωραία ιστορία, αλλά για πρώτη φορά σε βιβλίο του Πουαρό, η επίλυση του μυστηρίου δεν με έπεισε.
Agatha Christie's virtuoso for analyst fiction is unparalleled.
Nobody knows the human heart- - or the dull interests that can stop it- - superior to Agatha Christie.
Amy Leatheram has never felt the draw of the secretive East, yet when she goes to an antiquated site somewhere down in the Iraqi abandon to nurture the spouse of a commended classicist, occasions demonstrate more interesting than she would ever have envisioned.
This holding sensation from the BBC highlights John Moffatt as Hercule Poirot heading a recognized cast.“I joke, mademoiselle," he said, "and I laugh.
But there are some things that are no joke.
Βρισκόμαστε στη Μεσοποταμία και οι χαρακτήρες ασχολούνται αρκετά με την αρχαιολογια, το οποίο είναι απορροια της καθημερινότητας πλέον της Άγκαθα, αφού από το '30 είναι παντρεμένη με τον αρχαιολόγο, Μαξ Μαλλοουαν.
Επομένως, σε αυτό το βιβλίο βλέπουμε μια διαφορετική τοποθεσία, πιο εξωτική, την οποία χρησιμοποιεί σωστά.
Τώρα όσο αφορά την υπόθεση, είναι σχετικά πιο εύκολο να βρεις το/τη δολοφόνο εν αντίθεση με αλλά δικά της βιβλία, και ίσως δεν είναι τόσο "δυνατό" σε κάποια σημεια, όσο κάποια άλλα, αλλά αυτό δε σημαίνει ότι στερείται τη γενικη μαεστρία και το στυλ που υπογράφει η αγαπητή θεία Άγκαθα.
I like to get an Agatha Christie fix every now and again, and this one certainly didn't disappoint me.Hercule Poirot is my favourite detective, and he's at his deducing best in this entertaining whodunnit.
За първи път едно от двете ми предлопожения за убиеца в роман на Агата Кристи да се окаже правилно! И все пак не липсваха обрати и изненадващи моменти.
الرائعة أجاثا كريستيالتي تجعلك تفكر طوال قراءتك لروايتهاتود ان تذهب للنهاية لتعرف صحة استنتاجك والذي بالطبع يكون عادة خطأرائعة مشوقة لا تستطيع أن تتوقف حتى تنتهيمن الرائع أنها كاتبة وليست رئيس مؤسسة إجرامية
