https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1907439.Downright_Dencey
This is one of the best books I've ever read, hands down. It's a favorite of mine and has been for almost a decade. I will never stop loving it. Snedeker wrote one of the most touching, powerful, beautiful stories ever told about love, trust, and faith. Anyone who is interested in history or romance or religion should make this a must-read.
Yeah, it’s going to make your whole AT hike a bit longer, but it’s going to also make it more memorable because you saw that amazing view that you wouldn’t have seen if you had just stuck to the trail.If you just read the gold-stickered Newbery winners, of course you’re going to read some good books, but you’re not going to get a clear picture of what Children’s lit was like at that time.
Lots of the time, the real gems are the honor winners or even the books unmentioned by the ALA Youth Media Awards (Wonder and Okay for Now anyone?) With this in mind, I’ve decided that I want to try to read at least one honor from each decade.
It is sometime shortly after the War of 1812, and twelve-year-old Dionis (Dencey) Coffyn lives with her parents, father Tom, who is a whaling ship captain and away for years at a time, mother Lydia, and baby brother Ariel, along with several cousins whose mother had died and whose father is also a sailor, her grandfather Coffyn, and the housekeeper Peggy Runnell, on Nantucket Island, MA, during the days when whaling was the chief occupation.
One may not always agree with all the Quaker beliefs, but is good to read stories in which people are guided in their lives by a deep faith in God. There are a couple of things in the book that some people may not like.
It took me a bit of reading to care about the characters in the book. I think it is just an older style for one thing and Jetsam was so dirty and rough I didn't think he would be interesting to me. Then the story of Dencey's parents meeting pulled me in and then her dilemma with Jetsam and hencer her mother and then I could hardly put it down.
If you can get past casually thrown out epithets like "nigger-face" and "Portugee", the low opinion of Native Americans, and the relentlessly crushing guilt that guides these Nantucket Quakers' everyday lives, you'll find a pretty good story of compassion, belonging, adventure, and love.
Lovely and elegant novel for children and adults. Publishing in 1946, Downright Dencey was written at a time when authors sought to write great literature for children and adults. Excellent historical novel with wonderful characters and setting.
I read the first chapter of this with a kind of horror, and then rapidly changed my mind.
(I had to read it through interlibrary loan.
I couldn’t find it anywhere else, and it was one of the hardest 1920s Newbery books for me to locate, and also one of my 1920s favorites.)I loved how little Dencey/Dionis has certain Quaker rules drilled into her, and she believes if she breaks them she will go to hell.
And yet she still feels compelled to break them, because her inner humanity is compelling her to do good for another.
I didn't expect to enjoy this so much!
I agree with Beverly Cleary that it is really "a very fine book." I was cheering for Jetsam as he learned how to read and as he searched for Dencey when she was lost in the storm.
I was also very interested to learn a bit about the Quaker faith.
I soon got used to the Quaker use of "thee" and just enjoyed the setting, the story, and especially the characters.
The outcast Dencey teaches is a boy called Jetsam, the "child" of the impoverished drunk Injun Jill - I really expected better of the Friends who were a majority on the island at time of our story.
The boys run off, D goes to help J.All she wants is his forgiveness which he refuses, Later she tries to bribe him but he will only settle for her book, A Pilgrim's Progress, and when she finds out he can't read , she promises to teach him.
The contrast between the supposed equality of the Quaker sect and the rigid social castes and racism of the island was not commented on quite enough for my taste. The respect for the religion and the obvious possibilities to corrupt the system was better balanced. I think this story would likely be YA instead of Children's, if written in a time when those distinctions existed, but it was a very interesting view of Nantucket life, and an engaging story. The ending was abrupt, when it could have been less so, even with the uncertainty.
The first time I read this I really didn't like it. This time I did more research and understood the characters better, but still didn't care for it much. I thought the ending too abrupt and not very credible.
This was an enjoyable read and impressive that it had an independently minded girl as the main character considering that it was written in the 1920s. Although the author fell to using stereotypes a few times in terms of her language about an Indian character and she had a young boy use the N word to describe a darker child. I’d recommend this book to any reader 12 and older.
This was one of the better older Newbery books that I read. It is simple but interesting. Kind of reminds me of Little Women (although not as good).
Though the friendship between Dencey and Jetsam is at the center of the story, there are many other intriguing plot points that kept me reading: the history behind Dencey's parents' marriage, the differences between Dencey's Quaker beliefs and those of her Congregationalist grandfather, the abuse of Jetsam by Injun Jill and the community's willingness to look the other way, the influence of the War of 1812 on children whose fathers were sailors, and the day-to-day routines of a Quaker household.
Lots of interesting information about Nantucket."Here was to be seen, as in a diminishing glass, a tiny New England, delicately outlined--intensified--in a word, islanded.
Instead of the stony fields of New England, the Nantucketers plowed the wide ocean, and at this period of their history, their harvest was gathered from pole to pole.
I liked this Newbery book way more than I thought I would.
Dencey is a Quaker girl on Nantucket, and her fiery spirit is of great concern to her pious mother.
Dencey befriends Sam Jetsam, the local ragamuffin and Indian half-breed (as this book was published in 1927, American Indians are not portrayed in the greatest of lights–the perils of reading old, politically incorrect books) and teaches him to read, despite his bad manners and reluctance to trust anyone.
This book is sweet and very well written.*Read more on my blog: http://newberyandbeyond.com/newbery-r...
I thought that this was a really good book.
The VERY ending was a little not so great but almost, and some people would like that, so I guess it's good.As for grammar, there was a lot of comma splicing.
'Thee' means you, singular in the objective.
'Thou' is you, singular in the subjective, but they use 'thee' as well.
'ye' is you plural in the subjective, and I think they use 'thee' as well there.
Oh, well.Good book.
Far better than most old books.
This wonderful Newbery honor book from 1927 tells the story of a young Quaker girl named Dencey and her friendship with an outcast boy.
Yes, the writing style is “old-fashioned” (more formal), but I didn’t find it off-putting at all.
In fact, given the Quaker setting, it seemed to fit.
I learned so much about Quaker beliefs and practice as well as the Nantucket whaling culture and what it meant for families (fathers absent for years at a time).
The characters are so richly drawn.
Recommended for anyone who loves historical fiction, New England, or just a good story!
I expected to like this one more than I did. Especially given that it's a Newbery Honor book. The writing is excellent -albeit too long and wordy at times- and I like the character development. It was also an intriguing look into Quaker life. The main male protagonist annoyed me no end. It was okay overall, good, even great in some places, but I struggled to stay interested enough to finish.
I really liked this book. Great how the characters view of each other changed and grew through out the story. Even a surprise on how Sam changed his view of Jill. I liked it better than the 1928 honor winner.
I enjoyed this one a lot. One of my favorite classic children’s books. There is some major of-its-time description of a Native American character. But it’s still a lovely read. [Oct. 2008]
Good story. I liked it because it was on Nantucket and it was about Quakers.
Wavering between a 3 and a 4.
Interesting look at Quaker family life back in the early 1800s. Young girl's life and early love.
Another older YA historical fiction. Interesting view into Quaker life. It takes place on Nantucket during the whaling years-which is a sure-fire attention grabber for me.
A fascinating book that addresses many serious issues. Disappointing that the only Maginel Wright Barney illustrations were the front cover and the little black-and-white chapter headings.
A happy story of a rowdy Quaker girl, in Colonial America.
Loved it!
