https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/981161.Red_Phoenix
A superior offering from the genre.
Kim Jong Il invades South Korea in a surprise attack, and it's up to the brave plucky men (and one woman) of the US and South Korean military to fight them off.
It all works out in the end, with the fighter pilot getting the girl (no Top Gun subtext here) and the rookie young officer becomes a Man. Still, a lot less jingoistic than most, and without the Mary Sues that pollute Clancy's offerings.
And the author tricked me in the end just like he did the NKs, which is unusual in these books.
If a Second Korean War were to really break out, the "Buffs" would almost certainly be moved up from Guam to the staging point in Diego Garcia, and from there launched into action to carpet-bomb North Korean troops formations into oblivion.--In the novel, when the U.S. imposes economic sanctions on South Korea as punishment for human rights abuses, Western Europe and Japan quickly follow suit.
I read a lot of "Techno-Thrillers" at one time and I really liked this one. This is another time when I'm not sure that using the word "enjoyed" would be appropriate as this book concerns a fictional war in Korea.....however it is a well done book. the technology and the story telling are both first rate and "if you like this type of book" this may be for you.I recommend it.
Really enjoyed the tactical level of this book, with all the techno-babble and "boots on the ground" perspective. It was fun to read a book written at that level instead of at the higher up, more political tone most of these types of novels follow. The material is definitely a little dated (Soviets, etc.) but still reads as an interesting, plausible story.
Clancy-esque ThrillerGreat story that reminded me of a Tom Clancy thriller! Although the story is dated, the writing is excellent and you can picture yourself in the Cold War era
The premise is that the US imposes sanctions against South Korea because of student rioting (it's a long story)and the economy begins to collapse.
The books follows several of the US, South Korean, North Korean and Russian combatants as the war progresses.
The book starts a bit slowly in order to introduce all the characters and their backgrounds, but, once the war starts, things really pick up.
I liked all the main characters and was intrigued by their stories.
Since I know almost nothing about the politics of that region, I found that aspect fascinating.

This book may seem like a typical technothriller, but THIS is the book that made me realize that one could actually read just for the pleasure of it. Everything I'd read up until this book was because I had to read it for a class or because someone thought I'd like it. This is the first book I ever thoroughly enjoyed.
In Larry Bond's first departure from co-authoring with Tom Clancy (Bond co-wrote Red Storm Rising), this modern war tale, centered in Korea, is very much in the same style as Red Storm Rising and just as good. This is one of my favorite books ever and I wish there were more like it (but then the few that are around wouldn't be as special).
This is good of its time and worth 3.5 stars. The reason for slightly marking it down is that although the military side of action is well-developed, I found the politics somewhat superficial and the plot somewhat formulaic.http://opionator.wordpress.com/2012/1...
Enjoyable techno-thriller depicting a second Korean War. The sort of thing that fans of Tom Clancy (esp. Red Storm Rising, which Bond actually co-authored) would enjoy, although some of it certainly outdated by now - I read it almost 20 years ago.
Fantastic book. Held my attention through all 700 pages. Very well put together with great information. Puts you right in the action.
The romance scenes are unnecessary.
Great book, couldn't put it down!
The book that first got me interested in Korea.
Simultaneously, the North Koreans threaten to draw Russia and China into the war, and turn the relatively isolated conflict into the next global war.One of the things that Larry Bond excels at is going over the nitty-gritty details of military logistics and not make it seem crushingly boring.
The North Koreans screw up, of course, and lose battles, but it isn't because they are bumbling morons unable to figure out which end of their rifle shoots out the bullets, a common problem in works of the genre.
It ultimately becomes a situation where Bond's writing finds itself juggling too many characters at once, and many of them end up getting somewhat dissatisfying conclusions.
Bond made his bones working with the king of the technothriller, the late Tom Clancy, on the World War III novel 'Red Storm Rising', and it's abundantly clear that he took all the narrative skills and other tricks of the trade with him whilst writing 'Red Phoenix'.
On all these criteria Bond succeeds, and his novel of a second Korean War is a great page turner that certainly stands in good stead alongside Clancy and others of his ilk.
By following closely the conventions of the technothriller story type Bond has produced a damn good read.
The great power patronage is perhaps the most interesting angle, even with the Chinese deficiencies of the time, while considering this in anything like a modern light is difficult given the total lack of nuclear weapons or indeed, even ballistic missiles possessed by the North.
Suffers from the usual techno-thriller drawbacks of characterization (including an awkward love story subplot), and some early-on period racism mars things a bit (I can't speak to the "accuracy" of including it in this timeframe).
With the current Stupid Missile Crisis in the news, some things that might otherwise be overlooked jump out in this.
This is an excellent Geo-political /Military thriller in which the author explores one possible scenario that would lead to North Korea invading South Korea in an attempt at unification. The narrative starts with student uprisings, which lead to a South Korean government clamp down and ultimately to US Sanctions. Seizing the opportunity, the North invades the south. Will the numerical superiority of the North and the small amount of up to date weaponry prove to be crucial or will the superior w
This is an excellent Geo-political /Military thriller in which the author explores one possible scenario that would lead to North Korea invading South Korea in an attempt at unification.
Seizing the opportunity, the North invades the south.
Battles range on land and in the air the two sides struggles for air domination.
Thrown in amongst the excellent battle scenes, are the human struggles.
Older and more experienced military leaders look to avoid the mistakes of the past and lead their armies to victory.
Away from the front we get an interesting look at the political infighting that can affect and almost paralyse a democracy.
An extremely realistic and hard-hitting look at what happens when North Korea decides to invade South Korea.
So, in 2016 when I got the sequel, I spent the better part of a year trying to find the original.
Now, it's time to move on to the sequel.
This is one of those that falls into the category of a "page-turner" you have a hard time putting down.
Filled with action.....political back room deals......realistic war-time battles.....it's all here which is why Bond is one of the leading writers of the genre.
If you plan on reading the sequel, you should read this one first.
I hadn't come across Larry Bond before reading "Red Phoenix" but in the book description I found out
Red Phoenix is an entertaining book while also being a good reminder of how bloody things could get on the Korean peninsula all too easily.
While the North Korean leader in Red Phoenix is of the prior generation of the Kim family, the possibility of a war seeming to him like the best option to protect his power sounds all too familiar today.If anything, a real war would be far more brutal than what readers experience in this book (for a better taste of the real deal, check out the non-fiction book "The Last Stand of Fox Company"), and I hope the world finds a better way to deal with North Korean issues than a senseless war.With that said, the characters in this book are interesting, and the action moves at a good pace.
I found this to be an entertaining read, and that's the point of a book like this!
I liked it!
Similar to Red Storm Rising but it also had some politics in it (sorry if RSR had it too - it's been a while since I've last read that book), which was interesting to me and I found myself getting ticked off at some decisions various countries made, enough to verbally protest on my drive home while listening to the audiobook.
Military action was good and seemed logical based upon the hardware at that time and the plausibility was there which had a slight air of eeriness for me because of the time I was stationed in Korea during my Navy service.
All in all, I am happy with having this book in my personal library.
Great book, a real page-turner (can one say that about an eBook?).
The story was good, there was nothing that was feeling wrong, the people in there had personality.
Tension was high and the end was a winner.
Only beef I have is the absence of 2 weapon systems that would probably have made the book 100 pages shorter (do we have the reason for absence here?).
Where were the B-52s and where were the Abrams?
I believe the first M1s were shipped 1980, and most probably the first large batch would have gone to West Germany, but still...
I actually enjoyed this book. I was surprised that I finished it. The author Used a lot of strategy and war tactis inthis book, i love when a author digs deepinto his subject and characters. The warthat was declared was done so easily and I believe it to be exactly how it might happen.It did take me longer than usual to finish thisStory. It does reinforce the idea "before yougive important information to those who willuse it to make life altering results, you make sure your information is correct.
I read Red Phoenix in the early 90s and would have given it 4-stars if the internet and Goodreads were around then. I was a sergeant in the Army's 2nd Division near the Korean DMZ in the mid 70s and the Korean geography, military technology, and geopolitics were still fresh in my mind when I first read this book. Military technology and geopolitics have changed so much since then that I can only give Red Phoenix 2-stars now.
Quite the comprehensive plot. A big book as well.A bit slow to start. Also this plays in the coldwar era so these days one would just send cruise missiles to bomb certain dangerous targets. Also surprised he did not include b52 bombers and carpet bomb stuff. He did go overboard 😑 on the submarine warfare but that is his specialty.Overal, i did like the book and will try a few more.
Pulls you right inA very entertaining and at times exciting read that explores an invasion of South Korea by North Korea at a time of political turmoil. A bit dated since it is set and written before the end of the Cold War or even the anticipation of the break-up of the Soviet Union.
A highly enjoyable book I have re-read after 22 years (found it in a moving box).It was just as enjoyable as the first time. The simple writing style, but detailed character and political development makes it an engrossing read.I would highly recommend as a public transport read or something to disappear into for the weekend.
Air ,Land and Sea , Combat that keeps you on the edge of your seat.Very plausible plot line and realistic scenarios painted on the global stage .The characters were well developed and real . This book was a page turner and was hard to put down . Loved it !
