https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/17797344-dr-seuss-s-abc
Innovative words. Amazing alliterations. Made-up names.This is Dr. Seuss for you.Well done, doctor. :D
Only Dr. Seuss has the audacity to make up names in a book that teaches kids the alphabet. Zizzer-zazzer-zuzz? Really?Can you tell I've been reading lots of these books lately with my 18 month old?
WrensReads Review:My best friend just got like eight Dr. Seuss books and I am not sorry about flooding your feed today and tomorrow with me reading them and telling you how amazing they are.Because, I mean, it's Dr. Seuss. Can it be anything less?I would read this to my kids, your kids, your neighbor's kids, the kid down the block, the kid of my worst enemy and probably just all kids. Alphabets can be fun.WrensReads | Goodreads | Twitter | Instagram
I think that this is the most amazing alphabet book ever, word-wise.
I never read this book as a child, and I'm almost glad, because I get to be so astounded now as an adult.First of all, there's great meter.
I woke up in the middle of the night and thought, "Hey!" And since I practically have this book memorized (the catchy rhythm and alliteration help), I went through the book in my head at four in the morning and realized exactly how amazing this book is.Simple words.
Amazing alliteration.
BIG A,little a,what begins with A?Aunt Annie's alligator.A...a...ABIG B,little b,what begins with B?Barberbabybubblesand abumblebee....
"Big A little a what begins with A?" And it begins -- the sound of a little voice answering the question - "Aunt Annie's Alligator A a A." This is a favorite read in the car - so much so that my grand kids have it memorized!Dr. Seuss has a magical way of rhyming and creating rhythm that appeal to young and old.
You begin reading about Aunt Annie's alligator and you're off into that delightful rhythm that keeps you and the children hooked to the very end with the Zizzer-Zazzer-Zuzz.
Seuss doesn't go for the usual pattern of picking one thing for each letter; no, he has to include silly rhymes and even some made-up words too, paired with his trademark slightly-unrealistic illustrations.
A sample:BIG A,little a,what begins with A?Aunt Annie's alligator.A...a...ABIG F,little fwhat begins with F?Four fluffy feathers on a Fiffer-feffer-feff.BIG O,little o,what begins with O?Ostrich, oil,orange owl.O...o...OBIG Y,little y,what begins with Y?A yawning yellow yakwith Yolanda on his back.There's some variety, not all the rhymes follow the same exact format, but they all start the same way and most end with the letters again.
His parents being concerned about how much time he was spending watching a computer video game on YouTube, first-grader Jack was told to stop and I thereupon invited him to pick out a book to read instead.
To make it more participatory, I asked Jack to give a word starting with the letter-to-come before proceeding to see what author Geisel's selection would be.
It worked, worked enough for the two of us to get through the whole thing, Jack's attention span for reading usually not being adequate to entire children's books.
I'll definitely read this book to my child :)
This is an excellent book for some one who is just learning to read. I look forward to reading more of this author's work.
I insist on this one at least once every two weeks to get the alphabet front and center for my son. I think his favorite is Rosie’s Red Rhinoceros but then the Zizzer-Zazzer-Zuzz is also pretty neat
I read this with my 9yo cousin and it was a fun activity to get her to think about different words that begin with different letters, especially enjoyed thinking of animals beginning with whichever letter we were on. This is really useful and a super fun activity to do with your children!
Good Dr Seuss fun for learning the alphabet and also for learning what made up words begin with which letter. Dr Seuss has managed the make the alphabet fun... at long last. Best one in the book is Y."A Yawning Yellow Yak. Young Yolanda Yorgenson is Yelling on his back"
Loved reading this one to Catherine. We will be rereading this one often.
It was too hard. :(
this book helped me a lot!!!!! without this book i would be lost...
My grand daughter read this one to me. The majority of words easy for her to handle.
The blurb gives it away - a must-have for every young child’s library. If the English alphabet was taught to me as a young kid like this, then learning it would've been easier and so much more fun! Also a handy resource for primary schoolteachers.
Reading every single Seuss book because he's great :p
I really enjoy books by Dr. Seuss due to their uniqueness.Likes:I like the illustrations as they are very colourful and help bring the words to life, especially the descriptions given the author has created and are hard to picture in your mind, for example, a 'fiffer-feffer-feff'.The big text makes it easy for children to use, additionally, this helps when using the book for shared reading as children more likely to be able to read the text.The challenge of trying to read the pages as quickly as possible.Dislikes:The layout of the pages could lead to some children developing misconceptions on structure.
Following this, it could be used as an example for children to then create their own mini book based on the alphabet.
Such a cute book by the creative author Dr. Seuss. His books are loved by all the kids I know because of their unique flair for quirkiness and fun. This book is just another example of his creativity. I highly recommend these to all beginning readers and their parents.
I can’t believe I’m reading this stunningly beautiful Alphabet book by Dr. Seuss, with the same enthusiasm of a happy little kid. This is definitely going to be my babies’ first ABC book! ❤🙏🏻💯
I can’t believe I’m reading this stunningly beautiful Alphabet book by Dr. Seuss, with the same enthusiasm of a happy little kid. This is definitely going to be my babies’ first ABC book! ❤️🙏🏻💯
I love all the rhymes, the pictures, and all the creativity. A fun book.
A quirky book that goes through the ABC's. Some rhyming and word play in typical Dr. Seuss styleBright Pictures and interesting creatures make it interesting and entertaining for the children. The children in my class enjoy this book.
This is SUCH a fun book! My sister and I actually used this book in a talent show when I was working at a Boys and Girls Club, she beat boxed and I rapped to it! Even days after you could hear some of the little ones repeating rhymes from this book. It is great for rhyming and alphabet lessons.
With each letter of the alphabet there is a little sentence/rhyme that has a majority of the words beginning with the same letter.
Some of the items that are mentioned are real items, but as with just about all Dr. Seuss books there are some more creative words that are added in.Identify the characteristics from the text that support the specific genre:The sentences in this book are short, and are presented in a rhyming/rhythmic way that makes it engaging and fun for those who are reading it.
This is important for this book in particular since it not only teaches children the letters of the alphabet but it also their sounds.
Such was the case for the letter “C”, even though the hard “C” sound could have been done on its own the soft “C” was also included by incorporating the word “ceiling” into the page about the letter “C”.
But the pictures were also useful since they let children connect letters, and their sounds, with objects they see in their everyday lives.
I really liked how repetitive it is; the letter appears on the page alone at least three times.
I really liked the fact that at the end of the book there was the full alphabet, upper and lowercase, this would be a great tool for children that are learning to write the letters because it is a full visual example that the child can follow.
This would be a good book for parents of children mostly under the age of five, and for teachers teaching both the alphabet and how to write the letters.
Dr. Seuss would be turning angrily in his grave for how they placed this book together.
There are a couple of pages that lay out exactly what Dr. Seuss wrote, but then there are other pages that do not even have the right words.
It is as though the publishing company rewrote this classic book.
There are words that are missing and pages rewrote entirely.
I understand that it is a short book, but at least keep it Dr. Seuss.
But I would rather get the actual book with the correct words written by the amazing author.
This book was not entertaining.
I read the book ABC by Dr.Seuss.
There are a lot of interesting words they use throughout the book.There is no main character, but there are some characters.
There is also Zizzer-Zazzer-Zuzz who is gigantic, ugly, and pink and white.There is no setting; it is just super random.
I guess the setting is in your head and where ever you want it to take place.
There was not a time either, so you have to use your imagination.I would recommend this book to adults reading to young children who are learning.
It is a fun, good way for kids to learn at a young age.
