https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/141527.The_Days_Run_Away_Like_Wild_Horses_Over_the_Hills
In “for Jane: with all the love I had, which was not enough: —” he looks though his dead loves’ possessions, her dresses, her jewelry:“and I call God a liar,I say anything that movedlike thator knewmy namecould never diein the common verity of dying, ”In the end he laments that “they will not/give her back to me.
In “spring swan,” he identifies a dead swan with his beloved Jane:“and I felt guilty for the swanas if deathwere a thing of shame”It is a common theme in poetry ~ how life goes on all around the one who grieves for the dead.
I'm certain I've said this before, but the longer Bukowski's writing is, the less I like it, though I still enjoy everything of his that I have read.
A possibly obsessive and difficult idea to read every book of poetry by Bukowski has taken root in my head but we will see how that fares.While reading this collection over the last week, I would periodically tear a piece from the receipt I was using as a bookmark and save a certain page or poem I liked or wanted to remember above all of the others.
Bukowski never disappoints.
He inspires me to keep on writing in an ugly world.
He is the epitome of poets in a modern, materialistic world.
His form and technique in writing poetry surpass so many other poets of his time.
Books like this are gems in the modern world of poetry.
It is prolific and inspiring to any poet who understands the torture of writing, the pressures of society, the strangling of rules; read this book, if you love poetry.
I highly recommend Bukowski.
Poetry books are meant to be introspective, not read in ten minutes.
I consider him a very genius, and to prove he is poetry is not just about rough sex, please read the following poem: "I pick up the skirt, I pick up the sparkling beads in black, this thing that moved once around flesh, and I call God a liar, I say anything that moved like that or knew my name could never die in the common verity of dying, and I pick up her lovely dress, all her loveliness gone, and I speak to all the gods, Jewish gods, Christ-gods, chips of blinking things, idols, pills, bread, fathoms, risks, knowledgeable surrender, rats in the gravy of two gone quite mad without a chance, hummingbird knowledge, hummingbird chance, I lean upon this, I lean on all of this and I know her dress upon my arm but they will not give her back to me.
One of the weakest collections of poetry that I’ve ever read by Bukowski. There’s not enough anger, resentment, sadness and overall vitriol in this one. It’s too even keeled and upbeat and not characteristic of his writing at all. There weren’t even a few gems here and there in this one. Just mediocrity almost the entire way.
Bukowski is the real deal. Good poems about cats, women, drinking, The American Dream, the death of his lover, war, being a new dad, a bullfight (described better than Hemingway did) etc... Life, etc...
Contains some of my favorite Buk poems, especially the ones he wrote for Jane.
بعض الناس لا يصابون قط بلوثة الجنون ايّ حياة رهيبة تلك التي يعيشونها
I dig Bukowski’s poems. Very masculine. Misanthropic. Bitter. But I dig it nonetheless.
So it's a bit of a mixed bag and there are some which you feel should have been left out but come to think of it, just about every poet I know of has released some pisspoor poems.
Hank's early prose and poetry is certainly wonderful and I think this is as good a place as any to dive into his work if you haven't already.
As good a place to start as any for Buk's poetry.
This book is Bukowski's finest collection of poetry ever published.
As with all prolific writers, Bukowski's books often come with more filler than sustenance- that is not the case here.
The poems written for/about Jane highlight his most soulful collection.
It is written in such a way that anyone can read and understand.
It isn't written in a flowery, deeply symbolic style that makes younger readers hate poetry.
This book is from the heart, mind and fists of a man who has loved, suffered, hated and laughed.
This is the book to read if you are interested in the most three-dimensional portrayal of the late poet.
Mostly because the idea of "trying" means that at least some effort went into the act of creating the thing in question - irrespective of it's actual quality.However, I think I'm going to have to rethink my stance on "trying too hard", because if there's one thing Charles Bukowski does it's try - boy oh boy, does he try.
He tries so hard to create poems that are brutal and edgy and hard and sturdy and masculine - and almost every time the results are boring, grossly misogynist and (occasionally) completely laughable in their ineptitude.
This gets a 2 purely because some of the poems here are, I must admit, actually pretty good.
Love almost everything bukowski so maybe I'm trippin' but this one just wasn't hittin'
Wonderfully blunt and wonderfully wonderful. It's raw and timeless; a library isn't worth much without Bukowski. Honest, funny and beautifully sad.
'I shot out the moonAnd then I shot out the stars one by oneAnd thenI shot out every light in townAnd pretty soon it began to get dark Real dark Just the way I like it'
Je voudrais t'aimer plus Buko mais tu finis toujours par me saouler à raconter inlassablement tes mêmes histoires de putes, de bières et de courses de chevaux. J'suis même pas choqué par ta vulgarité, par moments elle m'amuse, mais j'ai l'impression qu'elle n'est au service de rien, d'aucune rébellion, juste un plaisir enfantin de tremper les doigts dans la crasse. Mention spéciale pour ton poème sur la corrida. Il déchire.
Color me in love--<3 I have been told many times that I should read Bukowski--with my love of the beats and of Tom Waits and pulp etc, I would adore him.
he is a woman hating misogynist" and I was aghast after what I had just read.
This book in particular was written as he was dealing with the death of a woman he loved very much, Jane Cooney Baker and also references the birth of his only child, a daughter.
read this and some other buk stuff many years ago, thought i'd revisit it...so, not near as sexist as i remember.
almost as crotchety and curmudgeonous as i remember.
just about as raw and depressingly uplifting as i remember.
just about as weirdly funny at parts as i remember.
bukowski jabs and jabs at the open wounds of this life and society.
oh does he jab.
he is actually quite sympathetic, empathetic and yes cynical drunk.
not a hero (which is a stance he has since made heroic) perhaps genius, and yes a good poet.
bukowski.
Bir süredir elimde sürünen bir kitaptı bu. Son derece serbest olan bu şiirleri, sürekli bir değerlendirme çabası ile okudum. Ancak Bukowski'nin düz yazılarından aldığım keyfi alamadım açıkçası. Zaten şiir kitapları olduğu dilden başka dile çevrilince, temelden sarsılıyor; bir de üzerine tematik olarak hep aynı şeyden benzer şekilde bahseden şiirler eklenince sıkıcı oluyor. Meraklılarının mutlaka içinde iyi bir şeyler bulacağı bir kitaptır ancak Bukowski için ilk adresiniz olsun demem.
"the few who are differentare eliminated quickly enoughby the police, by their mothers, theirbrothers, others; bythemselves."So... you might be thinking "girl this took you a year to read??!" Well, it's my car reading book aka the book I read when I get to places early. Clearly I am not early often
This is my favorite collection of Bukowski so far. He's a bastard sometimes, but there's something about a Bukowski poem I can't get enough of. They're exciting, and I can never wait to finish them, I'm never bored with him.
My problem with this collection is that I had to go through a lot of poems that I just didn't like to get to a gem that was understated but powerful, sad and beautiful: "For Jane: with all the love I had, which was not enough:"
I remember reading "Love is a Dog from Hell" summer of 2010 and really enjoying it, so I bought this book based on the title alone. It wasn't as good, but had a few memorable ones. Wouldn't suggest starting with this one however
This is one of my favorite poetry collections. Granted I've got some 33 books of his poetry and fiction, so it would be hard to pick a favorite, but this is one of the ones I keep going back to.
It was okay.Some poems I liked, most were uninspiring for me. I had a hard time relating to his way of life. I appreciate the art, however.
This collection seemed more raw and emotional and I loved it.
Here are some of my favorite poems and quotes: Remains"things are good as I am not dead yetand the rats move in the beercans,the papersacks shuffle like small dogs,and her photographs are stuck onto a paintingby a dead German and she too is deadand it took 14 years to know herand if they give me another 14I will know her yet...her photos stuck over the glassneither move nor speak,but I even have her voice on tape,and she speaks some evenings,her againso real she laughssays the thousands things,the one thing I always ignored;this will never leave me:that I had loveand love died;a photo and a piece of tapeis not much, I have learned late,but give me 14 days or 14 years,I will kill any manwho would touch or takewhatever's left."from Finish"we are like roses that have never bothered to bloom when we should have bloomed andit is as ifthe sun has become disgusted withwaitingit is as if the sun were a mind that has given up on us."
I was hacking mucus en route to the dumpster, saying hello to the man with no nose, head filled with mucus.
The man walking his dog looked familar.
He told me about Bukowski.
Then I went out into the world and found out Bukowski was a cringe worthy cult hero in the cities.
Twelve years ago.
I spent an hour with it.
I should tell the man with no nose about Bukowski.
I wouldn't mind never hearing the name, nor seeing the noseless man ever again.
Just once every twelve years for an hour or two; that'll do.
Bukowski was absolutely a prolific writer, and you have to sift through to find the gems. Once you do, however, you are instantly transported to the bleak and alcohol fuelled world of a depressed middle aged man. His ability to create empathy, which also mildly hating him is a rare skill, and very much appreciated :)
This is the First Book i had read by Bukowski after becoming aware of him. He's my kind of poet and speaks to the rawness of the human condition and what life can be like on the bottom of the worlds shoe. This is a poet for the every day man, and the every day woman. He has inspired my poetry writing even further.
I love you Charles Bukowski, your poem toJane almost made me cry and I'm super emotionless when it comes to books.YOU WERE AHEAD OF YOUR TIME and in the words of Phoebe Buffay "ugh, he's ahead of his time! I'd give anything to be ahead of my time!"
