https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/675905.Summer_People
The parts that revealed what happened in the past were extremely vital to the story.
This read kept me entertained and I couldn’t wait to find out what happened next.Admittedly, (and without wanting to reveal spoilers) there were things that made my blood boil a little, like the extreme self-absorbed attitude of the twins, Garrett and Minnie, but then they are teenagers, and, in the end, they are genuinely good kids.
I also had the feeling while reading that I wished the author had fleshed out a few of the characters more, especially Beth, the Mom. I didn’t like how David was portrayed.
I needed a summer fluff book.
This book and its $4 price tag at Costco accommodated me.
Once I understood the title, that there are wealthy people who spend entire summers doing nothing in their second homes on beautiful and quaint islands, I forgave the shallowness of most of the characters.
That doesn't forgive the lack of depth Hilderbrand wrote all the other characters but I read it in a day....in the summer...and am not much worse off for it.
The book did its job which was to distract me from the long list of to-dos after a few weeks of my own travels.
That is one of the worst things you could do to a person, your own parent for that matter, over a secret they felt they were entitled to know.
First of all, her secret was NONE of their business and for her to cave and tell them all about it shortly after discovering they scattered her husbands ashes, and then pretty much just let them off the hook for that, just doesn't make any sense to me.I really didn't like the way things ended with her and David either.
I don't know, this book just really didn't work for me.
***SPOILERS BELOW.***If I were Elin's editor, I would have told her "this so called plot twist?
is a BUST" Wow. The big secret is that the mom was married, twenty-five years ago, for two weeks.
Years before she met her long-term spouse, years before she had children, she was married for two weeks.
My mom was engaged before she met my father.
Yet this character's kids feel so BETRAYED.
Her kids are hideously selfish and shameful.
The plot is snooze-worthy and honestly regrettable.
I feel like I wasted a day reading this.
I keep reading this author's books because so many people think they are great.
His children, twins Winnie and Garrett, have been unable to adjust to the loss of their father and are still mourning.
Every character has somehow lost someone; Marcus is trying to adjust to losing his mother, and his loss seems almost greater than Winnie's and Garrett's.
Beth soon develops a friendship with David, her first love, and realizes that he's spent 20 years trying to get over losing her, without really succeeding.
Another new author who I have fallen in love with! I love books set in places in New England and along the water front of the East coast so Nantucket during the summer was perfect in my book for a summertime read. A little slow for me at the start, but once I got into it (and past some of the darker parts), I was hooked.
Elin did it again! Love anything she writes :)
Beth's husband, Arch, was killed in a plane crash just 3 months before she and her teenage twins go to Nantucket for the summer, maintaining a family tradition.
Before he died, Arch invited Marcus, the teenage son of a murderer he is representing, to join the family in Nantucket.
Out of a respect for Arch, Beth honors Arch's invitation.
The first person Beth's sees in Nantucket is her first love, who is recently separated.
His two teenage daughters live with him.
As the summer unfolds emotions run rampant as everyone try's to heal from loss, old love and secrets surface, and first love grows.
A nice light summer read. Just what I was in the mood for. Although it does address some serious topics, it doesn't dwell on them. The ending isn't what you would expect, but it is the right one. Well done.
His goal is to take advantage of his time beach-side to write the first 50 pages by September in order to receive the advance that he hopes will propel him through college.Overall this is such a quiet story and I was frankly quite bored about 3/4 of the way through because I'd been hoping for more and the reveal (view spoiler)[of Beth and David's brief summer marriage decades ago (hide spoiler)] was not enough of a shakeup.
(hide spoiler)] And I didn't know what to make of Marcus (view spoiler)[not pushing himself to write through his block and cancelling his deal, that was a big disappointment (hide spoiler)] and caused me to further detest Winnie's flimsy character.
3.5 stars - easy, enjoyable summer read.
Not the author's best, but pretty entertaining. I read it with a flashlight during a Nor'easter power black out.
3.75 - First I’ve read of her books. I liked the story, but it moved a little slow for me.
Summer People is my least favorite of her books. This book leaves some loose ends related to Marcus, unexpected guest at Newtons' annual family vacation on Nantucket. Elin Hilderbrand is very good at the study of twins.
As proven in her previous books, Hilderbrand is a master at dealing with the family dynamics no matter what the issues are.
I found this part of the story very relatable as I recently lost a loved one suddenly and I understood the feelings of loss, disappointment, & confusion that the family experiences during this first year of loss.
The recently deceased Archer Newton was defending Marcus' mother at the time of his death and, before he died, he had extended the invitation to Marcus.
Hilderbrand is great at filling her books with hot summers spent on Nantucket Island where past secrets are abound and waiting to be revealed.
Beth, the mother, is quite simply an immature tease who borders on the psychotic.
Her husband dies suddenly, then she teases her first love all summer even though she doesn't really love him, then decides she should move on with him because she doesn't want to be alone (but she still doesn't really love him) then is disappointed that he didn't wait for her and got back with his wife.
They bring Marcus with them to their summer home, and because she "loves" him, then and only then does she decide to attempt to befriend "the couple of black girls in her school".
This book could have been so much more.
The characters could have been stronger and built up...
knowing more about them like Marcus' mother, etc.
I thought it was so stupid that the big secret that Beth had was that she was married for 2 weeks (no preganacy, no kids, no drama, nothing)...
big fucking deal!
And her 2 spoiled ass kids spread her husbands ashes without her...
they would be dead too if I had a say in it.
And then at the end Rosie decides to show herself...
Anyway, it (the book) was a bit of a disappointment.
Elin Hilderbrand's books all seem so very real to me. Her characters are all very relatable and their personalities leap off the pages.... they stay with me long after i finish the book.
And, of course, it's always fun to visit Nantucket in summer, even if it is only in a book.
Beth, his wife, and mother of 17 year old twins, Garrett and Winnie, is looking forward to the solace and peace of the beach house and ocean.
A week before his death, Arch had invited Marcus to spend the summer with the family and Beth has decided to honor her husband's invitation, much to the dismay of Garrett.The book follows them all as they each deal with their loss in different ways and eventually help each other to heal.PS.
The main character Beth Newton firmly believes that every man, woman, and child is entitled to one secret. Naturally one of the plot lines of this book involves what her secret is and what happens when it's revealed. Beth is spending the summer in Nantucket with her 17 year old twins Garret and Winnie and another unrelated boy named Marcus. I really enjoy Elin Hilderbrand's books because I feel like I am on Nantucket, too, with her beautifully descriptive style of writing. I liked the characters and felt the dialogue was believable. This is another great summer read.
Perfect book for a beach vacation. I devoured it in just a couple days. In true Hilderbrand fashion, she brings us in to the story and characters quickly, but it’s not an intense or thrilling ride. She has a way of making stories come alive and placing us on the island even though most of us have never even stepped foot on Nantucket.
This is the first Elin Hilderbrand book I have read. The setting felt like a main character. I wanted to be on Nantucket and watching the characters behind my sunglasses. I will be reading more of Elin's books this summer!
Loved it
While it is true that all of Elin Hilderbrand's novels share a similar premise (wealthy people living or vacationing on Nantucket, romance woes, beaches) I mud admit I also have throughly enjoyed each book I have read.
Summer People is no exception.
The characters and story drew me in immediately and, though the circumstances are in no way similar to my own life, it was not at all difficult to imagine myself reacting and making decisions in similar fashion.
Beach fare, chick lit, a summer read, yes, yes, yes, but also deeper and more fulfilling than most other titles in this genre.
Just my cup of (iced) tea for summer reading.

What I didn't need was the sappy, lack of depth story that I found in this book.The story is about a family that has recently lost their father, Arch Newton, who was on his way home from a work trip.
Despite needing time for them to heal as a family, mom Beth and her twins, Winnie and Garrett, aren't making the trip alone this summer.
Marcus is the son of Arch's last client, who was on trial for murder.
Prior to his death, Arch had invited Marcus to join family for the summer as a way to escape the current stresses of his home life.
A great, quick summer read. Typical of Elin Hilderbrand, the story is based in Nantucket on the beach which always makes me want a summer cottage. The usual characters that arrive to the beach, with some sort of a conflict to resolve, and emotional breakthrough and a little romance. Even though it was predictable, still a book I could not put down! Good change of pace of reading.
This was another light vacation read by Elin Hilderbrand. There were a lot of different stories going on along with the main story, however they all told stories of people, their family, their "vacation home", all which had progressed over the years visiting the island. It was very easy to connect with the characters.
Easy weekend beach read. Although the subject matter would lend itself to a story with depth, overall it does not dive much below the surface. This was my first Elin Hilderbrand book, and I'll probably give her one more chance, but it's not looking like she'll be listed among my favourite authors. Too fluffy.
