https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/209497.Enchanter
I thought this was going to be a favorite like book one. But unfortunately, Axis was too much of a dick for me to get over 😡But the book was still good overall Mel 🖤🐺
While I can see how Douglass wants to create a flawed anti-hero type of protagonist - Axis' disregard and blatant disrespect of the female characters in this novel is astounding.
I was proud of Faraday for what she did regarding Axis (in some ways) at the end of the novel, and appalled at Azhure's thoughts and actions in regards to what Axis had done to his former love.
I have little sympathy for Azhure and Axis - which is a pity since I enjoyed them in first novel.That out of the way - I did find the ending to contain a nice twist (even though I anticipated it halfway through the novel).
The book is cliche-ridden, from the fact that there is a Prophecy guiding the steps of the main protagonists to the Ravensbundmen, a nomadic horse tribe with bells chiming in their hair and tattoos covering their faces.In addition to this, I also found it hard to like any of the characters: Axis is cruel in the manner with which he treats Faraday and I find him a little too smug and arrogant; Faraday is a complete martyr - her doormat tendencies at the end of the book make me incredibly frustrated.
Both the Icarii and Acharites just accept Axis' leadership once Borneheld is out of the way.
Sara Douglass is capable of some truly breathtaking writing.This book is not evidence of that.Oh, where to start?I went into this novel believing that it was going to be one of my most favourite novel types in the world: The Training Novel.
Turns out that pretty much all of the learning is encapsulated in 'And then his father taught him how to sing all the magic songs but it was pointless because Axis already knew them'.
And the weird part is that Axis already knowing the magic isn't the part that I take exception to.
Don't even get me started on THAT particular minefield of suck.Screw this book.
Axis is a huge jerk, and everybody acts like it's okay.
To bring you up to speed: Axis falls in love with Faraday, who marries his abusive brother and awaits the day Axis will come save her and they can live happily ever after.
Well, you know one way to get her to stop coming to you?
Tell her you freaking found somebody else.And then, when his babymama (who was pretty awesome, actually) comes back from battle, he sits Faraday on the stage with him where she holds his hand, and he recognizes his son and babymama.
I did enjoy some of the secondary characters though, namely Magariz and Rivkah.One of the redeeming features of Enchanter was that it was fast paced with an edge that meant I wanted to read the next chapter straight away, which was an improvement compared to book 1 and maybe one of the reasons I did not abandon it.Not one of the best novels I have read this year, but not so terrible that I will not finish the series.
A generous 3 stars for this one, and I sincerely hope the final book Starman to be an improvement on Enchanter, particularly regarding Axis Sunsoar.
I'm somewhat surprised this is written by a female author, because the female characters in this book are treated like absolute trash.
The 'love triangle' (if that's what one must call it) is an absolute mess and full of cringe.
But then woosh a few sudden reveals happen out of almost nowhere towards the end of this book, and they somehow made up for a bunch of the mess mentioned above.Will definitely have to complete the trilogy soon and see how it all plays out.
So much of the prophecy has now seemingly been revealed that there must actually be some more surprises left for the third one!
Oh my gosh, I love this series so much!! Going through this story the second time was just as enjoyable as the first, except this time around I knew all of the secrets.It was hard, though, to watch the downward spiral of some of the characters. I know the outcome, and even though I dreaded what would inevitably happen, I still wished it could be different. I was surprised by how much my stomach was in knots as the book pushed to the climax of the story. (view spoiler)[I think the moment Faraday
(view spoiler)[I think the moment Faraday realizes the depth of Axis's betrayal is one of the most monumental scenes in this whole series, and one of the ones that had the biggest impact on me.
I hated reading it again for the second time, waiting for the moment Faraday realized what was going on.
(hide spoiler)]I loved watching Azhure's story unfold again.
(view spoiler)[I always shipped Axis and Faraday :( (hide spoiler)]Sara Douglass never ceases to amaze me with her intricate world building!
(hide spoiler)]I kind of love that Faraday and Azhure are basically friends despite everything.
(Meanwhile there's this other guy who renounces his commitment to bachelorhood the second Azure walks through HIS door, and gets all cranky that she won't marry him while pregnant with Axis's kid.) All that stuff about Azhure being some big mystery: why can she wield the enchanted bow?
Somehow, in 1200 pages of story between the first two books, this author never manages to give any of the characters any substance, any actual evidence of feelings she simply informs us exist, nor any reason to be sympathetic to those who are supposed to be heroes.
My biggest issue with the book was that Axis ended up falling for Azhure after he promised himself to Faraday.
That said, like the first book it's another fantasy series I can only be so jealous of, for I would never be able to write such beauty.
So my issue with Axis hardly means anything - I'm just born in the wrong century if I have any problems with him.I also read somewhere that Sara never liked Faraday, so any hopes of her having a happy ending will be sadly crushed most likely.
SPOILER ALERT PROCEED AT YOUR OWN RISKok sooo i have decided to drop this book....i absolutley loved the first book but now this!?!?!
but this book has been thrown across my room multiple times, has been hit in my face because i was dying out of frustration and annoyance, and has nearly been lit on fire!!
bedding two women and pretending to love them both!
which is weird because i loved the first book!seriously, my face the whole time was like this ----> (-__________-)thats right i gave it the whale face!?!!?i rate it 2 stars.....i was not happy............
Okay here's my thing, I picked up "Wayfarer" because I thought it would be about Faraday- I was totally stoked because so many fantasy books have incredibly weak female characters and the protagonists are males.
Faraday is barely in 'Enchanter', it focus is more her love, Axis- who basically acts like a complete a$$hole, and because he is this messiah character everyone seems totally cool with it.
I'm a little disappointed in the series (and its only the 2nd book) so far and am not sure if I will continue to read them.
The book is written well that's why it got the 3 stars.
It was a difficult for me to read because I did not like that the main character Axis chose to take a lover when I thought he should stay committed to Faraday.
Once Faraday and Axis is reunited it is obvious that his feelings are for his lover not Faraday.
I don't want to ruin the whole book for you but I did not like the betrayal I felt for Faraday.
Had Axis true feeling remained with Faraday I probably would have given the book a 5 stars.
Faraday/Azhure = OTP. There were a few slashable moments. Like the whole let me heal you with my magick touch, which I took to a whole new level. *wink wink*Axis was an entitled ass in this one, he wanted Azhure and Faraday. Faraday did not have time for that shit. Pretty much hit it and quit it. And her and Azhure became "best friends" after their "healing time". It was great. This ship is giving me life.
I loved The Wayfarer Redemption, and eagerly picked up this book as soon as I finished the first. I was much less than impressed. The writing was still amazing, but the story lost me after what Axel did to Faraday. It's honestly a personal issue, but Faraday was my favourite character, and what happened to her just ruined the book for me. It may have been the age I read it at, however, and I've been thinking about a reread sometime in the future. Maybe this time I'll be able to get to the third book as well..
Again as I mentioned for the first book, read these ages ago. I enjoyed them and the first was definitely my favorite. The second did an adequate job with the story but I know that for me it did not stand equal to the first
In this, we still don't know who the Dark Man is, but I have suspicions.Unlike the first book, I didn't like Faraday as much in this.
SO, after knowing that and being INEXPLICABLY drawn to Azhure, MAYBE, Axis, you idiot, should have figured out that it was never going to work between himself and Faraday.I really liked Azhure a lot.
The alaunt were freaking cool, and I loved how BA she was, especially when all the Icarii were laughing at the lil human trying to wield the big powerful bow, and she kicks their butts.Borneheld was a really sad character, and I still don't hate him, I just really, REALLY dislike him.
Rereading this book, I have come to see that there are a lot of problems with it and I'm torn; on the one hand I adore the plot and the overall story and it was a very nostalgic read.
On the other hand I am slightly appalled by some of the themes present in the book and by majority of the male characters.1: in no world, fantasy or otherwise, is incest okay.
Having to listen to morning star moan about the loss of her grandson to warm her bed was really off putting and downright disgusting.2: axis, and a smattering of other male Characters, are chauvinistic pigs who treat women like possessions and objects to do with as they please.
I wish the characters were more likeable; Axis and his father act quite douchey (for lack of a better word) so often that it is hard to love Axis as a hero in the same way that I have loved heroes from other books and authors.
Overall I am satisfied with the book, as I wasn't sure if I would pick it up after the first one but I had a plane to catch and a couple of hours to kill so took it with me.
Overall it only took me about a week to read.
Usually, well from my own personal experience, i've found #2 books of a trilogy or quartet to be slower paced and mainly filled with event that lead up to the final book.Not so with this one. I was a whole adventure in its own and was brilliant.I feel as though I've just read the finale and yet I'm given an extra book to read! *jumping around like a child* I'm so excited for what it to come.
Wonderful follow up just as good if not better than the first book. The characters continue to grow in interesting ways, questions are answered and more created and as a result it becomes harder and harder to put the book down as you read. I really enjoy spending time in Douglass' world and have already started reading the third installment of the series!
Dieses Buch ist von Anfang weg schon aufregender als das erste, immerhin ist es ja die zweite Hälfte des ersten Teils.Interessante Geschichte und Protagonisten, aber doch generell nie spannend oder emotional.Zumindest am Ende kommt endlich etwas Action in die Handlung.Dennoch liest man die Geschichte gern, eben weil die Geschichte selbst und die Personen faszinierend sind.
this would be 5 stars but axis is a total fuck boy
I still enjoyed this story but I think it could have been told in 2 books rather than 3. It feels a bit drawn out. It was slow going but still enough action and intrigue to keep me reading.
OHHHHH not as good plot as the first. WHY cancel the love interest in book one and have both parties go seperate ways. Did not make any sense.
It's been too long for me to really tell you much about the book. I don't even remember when I read the book but I loved the storyline over all.
can't put it down!
Faraday hat sich ebenfalls mit Hilfe zweier Hüter der Prophezeiung, Yr und Jack, nach Gorken durchgeschlagen und, obwohl sie Axis liebt, dort ihren Verlobten Bornhelm geheiratet.
Axis jedoch meistert alle Herausforderungen mit Erfolg und erkämpft sich dadurch nicht nur die Unterstützung der übrigen Heerführer der Burg, sondern auch der einfachen Soldaten.
Sie scheint sich dessen nicht bewusst zu sein, doch ist es vor allem ihr zu verdanken, dass es dem obersten Zauberer der Ikarier, Sternenströmer, gelingen konnte, Faraday zu Hilfe zu rufen.
Außerdem hat Axis Vater Sternenströmer seinen ersten Auftritt, und in den Gedanken des Hüters Jack taucht erstmals ein weiterer Hüter auf, eine Frau namens Zecherach.
Faraday, wife of Borneheld and Tree Friend to the Avar, needs to do some training of her own with the Mother.
Brother-Leader Jayme is trying to protect his position from Axis and the Forbidden or the Icarii race as well from King Priam's ideas of an alliance.
FarSight CutSpur is wondering when Axis will come see the Strike Force at their trainings.
RavenCrest SunSoar current Talon of the Icarii people doesn't trust his nephew Axis at all.
Can Axis train the Strike Force too?
What will Brother-Leader Jayme and Borneheld do?
Will King Priam seek an alliance with the Icarii?
Somehow he must lead the Icarii and the Avar back into Achat, defeat his half-brother Borneheld and reunite the former kingdom of Tencendor under his rule.Meanwhile, Gorgreal waits impatiently for winter, to continue his destructive drive into the heart of Achar ...I read the first book, Battleaxe, the other day & had to continue immediately onto this, the 2nd book.
No sooner are Axis' relationship problems settled than those same relationships create a future problem - annoying rather than intriguing, & a little disappointing in its formulaic notion: the man has enough problems saving Tencendor without being set up for more.
