https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/43887.Chainfire
At some point around book five somebody alerted him to the notion of Objectivism, and he's converted his series to be a mechanism for bad objectivist propaganda.
it doesn't work, because of the way he set up his first few books, so he's constantly contradicting himself.
I wouldn't say on the whole that its worth it - unless you've been reading the series for a while and want to know what happens to the characters.
Even then, I only buy books from these series when i find them at used book stores for half off, and only read them when I'm desperate for procrastination material.
TL;DR - The last 100 pages of this book are very good. The problem is that the 650 pages before them are soul-crushingly terrible, full of a ridiculous amount of recapping previous books, Goodkind telling us things we already know, endless technobabble about prophecy that might as well be giberish, and an absolutely insane amout of repetition in the dialog. The ending does not redeem the rest of the book up to it. The vast majority of the action scenes that take place in this book are told to u
The problem is that the 650 pages before them are soul-crushingly terrible, full of a ridiculous amount of recapping previous books, Goodkind telling us things we already know, endless technobabble about prophecy that might as well be giberish, and an absolutely insane amout of repetition in the dialog.
A seven page lecture on Richard's abilities and aptitude with magic, or a simple scene that shows you all of these things in a brief, but adequate manner without saying a single word beyond what was shown as explanation?Next, I feel like a broken record bringing this up time and time again, but the freaking recaps man.
What angers me even more is your statement about advice in becoming an author: "Ultimately, though, here is my sincere conviction: I believe that real writers are born writers.
If you are born a writer, and you possess the will, you will do what you need to in order to write.
Frankly Mr. Goodkind, the first five books of this series were great fantasy, but now I am tired of chasing Richard and Kahlan.
Moreover, writing isn't all about getting published, and I disagree with your statement of born writers.
I'm not a born writer, but I have the imagination and will to keep writing.
If you took away all the redundant sentences (I'm not talking about Richard's mannerisms that we've gotten used to, I mean the same sentence reworded on the same page), all the random arguing that does little but provide a vehicle for the same philosophy we've heard in the past 8 books...this book would probably be about 450 pages instead of 7whatever.
I say random because not only have *we* heard it all before, but certaintly so have the characters and instead of saying, "But X, we've been over this, instead of rehashing it for another 2 hours, let's get some much needed sleep/make a plan/cover some more ground since apparently we can't ride and talk/eat/tell people they must live their own lives but we'll be disappointed in them if they live it certain ways.
Each book in The Sword of Truth series reveals another obstacle that must be overcome as a part of the overall battle for the people's freedom.Chainfire begins with Richard fighting for his life after being wounded in a battle he doesn't even remember.
While he is searching for Kahlan, the D'Haran forces are facing overwhelming odds against the Imperial Order in the larger battle.Chainfire is part of two series because it does continue the overall storyline of The Sword of Truth Series.
But Chainfire was decent.Anyway ...The book opens up with Richard getting seriously injured, and then after he's healed (by Nicci), he realizes that Kahlan is gone, and that no one actually remembers her.
Everyone is convinced he's lost it.The disappearance of Kahlan also allows the book to "reinterpret" events the wrong way - sort of like Twilight zone, and then you yank someone out of existence, and there's a whole bunch of paradoxes, and it's only one man who notices the difference.From here on, Richard goes on a quest.

I don't know what so many people complain about? I was riveted, and had to force myself to put the book down so I could eat, sleep, and do other important thing pertaining to life. I was completely wrapped up in the story and wanted to scream, along with Richard, and all the other characters who refused to believe Kahlan is real. For the first in the final three books, I thought it was a great set-up book. I'm looking forward to continuing and dive into Phantom.
This book is wonderful and action-pached, I recommend this book why is well-edition.
While I admit that, in the beginning of this one, I was frustrated and slightly annoyed, the book definitely picked up and moved at a fast pace, which I appreciated.I've stopped reading the synopsis on the back of any Goodkind novel, just because I don't want to know what's about to take place.
The initial frustration I had (view spoiler)[over the disappearance of Kahlan (seriously, the last page of Naked Empire had Richard, Kahlan and Cara moseying off into the sunset, and the first few pages of this book open on her missing?
I admit, I had to go back a few pages to re-read the lead-up to Richard's epiphany.
Richard tries to convince Cara and Nicci about who Kahlan is but the harder he tries the more convinced they become that she's just a figment of his pain-addled mind.
In other news, the Sword of Truth is now with Samuel (yes the same one who skulks around Shota) Chainfire was probably one of the more linear books in the series with minimal POVs, we mostly stay with Richard and Nicci.
We concentrated on Richard, Cara, Nicci, Zedd, Nathan and Ann. This was a pleasant change.
Chi ha letto le mie precedenti recensioni, saprà già che non sono mai riuscito ad appassionarmi a questa saga. E saprà anche che avevo minacciato che, prima o poi, ne avrei abbandonato la lettura se il ritmo della narrazione non fosse decollato. E così è stato con questo nono volume...Ho preferito lasciar perdere quando non ero neanche giunto ad un quarto di libro: troppa poca azione (per non dire nulla) e personaggi sempre più piatti ed antipatici. Per me è davvero troppo... preferisco fermarmi qui e passare ad altro...![https://rosatoeu.blogspot.it/2017/09/...]
If you are on Chainfire then you know he is long winded and repetitive, but also wildly imaginative &&& honestly I would take a book that is over developed over an underdeveloped story any day.
BUT that is just me and I do understand for some people they can not compartmentalize their love for the story and their hate for Goodkind's personal interjection and repetition.
It is a very long upward climb to get to the point of the book then it stays at a relatively stagnant point where the same issues are rehashed over and over while the main character basically chases his tail unable to find a solution to a central problem.
After two volumes that kind of diverged from the main story a bit, this one gets back on track.
In then end it all came together, but for me the first 500 pages were kind of slow.
If people pick up this book it will not work very well as a stand alone so it would have been better to just assume that people had read the series so far.
All leading up the the big finale in the last two books in the series, I hope.
Last 150 pages were great, but the first 500 knock this down to a 3 star read for me.
Terry Goodkind, started out as one of my favorite authors, but then he came out with Chainfire, and Phantom, these books were horrible compared to his first books. I'm almost afraid to read his last book in the series because I don't want to be disappointed.
A return to form and my favorite in the series since the first book.
There's plenty of movement, intrigue, and twists and turns in Chainfire.It's all marred with Goodkind's preaching (which began around...Book 4?) and weird repetitive writing quirks (which began on the first page of the first book).
As an added bonus, it seems that you could have simply skipped the last two books and not have missed a single thing.
I'm sure the events they contained will come back to importance later in the series (Goodkind makes weird plot choices, but he generally does a good job of thoroughly incorporating them).
The first 55% (or around there) honestly is pretty uninteresting in my opinion. However, if you can trudge through the repetitiveness involved and finish out the book, the ending is definitely more satisfying than the first half. Not my favorite, yet not the worst in the series. Irony plays a part in this story as well regarding desperate times.
There's a reason it took me four years to read this book - the majority of it is incredibly dull, slow and repetitive. This is probably my least favorite entry in the Sword of Truth series thus far for that reason. That said, I gave it two stars because I did enjoy the end of the book (chapters 56 through 67, to be exact). Can't say any more without getting into spoilers, but I hope the other two books in this trilogy seriously pick up the pace.
We had some interesting plot develops and a resurgence of characters and artifacts that we haven't seen in quite some time, so some long hanging questions got answers.
For example, the two of the things are very important to this book are the boxes of Orden and the Sisters of the Dark who swore an oath to Richard to escape Jagang.
Except for one brief appearance and subsequent execution of one of those Sisters in I believe the fourth book, none of those things or characters have ever been mentioned through the books.
4,5erano un paio di anni che non leggevo un libro della spada della verità perchè purtroppo fino a poco tempo fa era quasi impossibile trovarli.quindi all'inizio non ricordavo molto e alcuni particolari continuano a sfuggirmi soprattutto quelli relativi a "l'impero degli indifesi"nonostante ciò sono riuscita ad immergermi nella lettura molto facilmente: è sempre stato così con Richard e zio Terry.
qui ha leggermente fallito.Richard è sempre splendido anche se dopo 9 volumi avevo sperato che fosse diventato un po' più paziente.comunque continuiamo a non pensare allo stesso modo su alcune cose su altre invece siamo soli contro il mondo ahahah (dannazione mi servivi per la tesina)Cara is Cara, perfetta, premurosa, leale.
There's too much good literature to read.According to Mr Goodkind, those of us who have bailed out are ignorant and uneducated.
I should have realized right from the start ("Wizard's First Rule: People are stupid") what kind of fellow Terry Goodkind is.
It isn't that they want to read a good book, what they want is to make sure that you do not.
If you really want to try a Goodkind book, I would recommend that you go to the library and check out the first few, and then trust me that you don't need to read any further.
Read more Terry Goodkind book reviews at Fantasy Literature .
To start, this installment of the Sword of Truth series is a much better novel than its previous cousin, Naked Empire.
He is not without his faults in this book, even though his drive for the truth is still quite apparent and will serve to ultimately prove that he knows-it-all.
Still, at least it wasn't as pompous a condition as in Naked Empire.The novel starts with Richard having been shot with an arrow.
The arrow gradually becomes a metaphor for Richard's faults as the book progresses.
How long can he deny the D'Haran empire the freedom it deserves while he chases phantoms?
Coming to the final 2 books of my re-read. Glad I decided to take up the challenge!
Goodkind has only my obsessive compulsion to finish what I start to thank for my continued consumption of his free market capitalist propaganda, and the fact that they have been turned into audiobooks.
There are also, of course, the obligatory clumsy, transparent, desperate, deluded attempts from the author to trick the reader into endorsing morally untenable positions that glorify selfishness and pose helping others as the greatest kind of evil, as well as other philosophies that support a purely self-interested free market capitalist, minimal-government, nonexistent welfare dystopia.
This was like a breath of fresh air after reading the previous eight books.
Perhaps it's just because I've been reading the entire series back to back, but it seems that it's long and plodding in some parts, then bizarrely exciting in others.The premise of the book, that a spell has caused memory of Kahlan disappear from everyone's minds except Richard's, is new for Goodkind.
All in all, I wish that the main characters had been more supportive of Richard and believe in him--didn't he save the world eight times before?I like fantasy books where magic evolves into a system of science.
intrigante !Bon, cela reste assez bavard, ne serait-ce qu'à cause de la loi des séries, où l'auteur se sent obligé de rappeler (donc, répéter) des faits déjà martelés dans les tomes précédents, pour le fan ayant dû attendre un an pour ce livre (et ayant donc, peut-être, oublié des détails) ou pour le fou qui attaque la série par le milieu...
(Ce monde là, en tout cas...)Il y mêle une nouvelle menace de Jagang, entretenant une confusion entre les deux faits.Le développement reste logique et cohérent, l'auteur dévoile assez pour maintenir l’intérêt...
Chainfire is the ninth book in the Sword of Truth series (and, if anyone happens to care, is also what the Legend of the Seeker TV series is loosely based on).
It's been a little while since I read the last book, and I really have forgotten a lot, though there is a lot of reminding in the book.This book was VERY slow for a long time.
Basically, a main character has disappeared but no else, it except for one person, remembers.
And long stretches of one person speaking.
I will say I think, mostly the story is better than Book 8, and hopefully the next one proves to have more action and story.
I don't know how to explain it...in Game of Thrones, bad things happen and I was shocked and sad sometimes for the characters, but it didn't make me want to stop reading or dread what was going to happen next.
haha I don't mind if bad things happen that they need to resolve, I just don't want those bad things to be between Richard and Kahlan!
Anyway, by the end of this book, a lot had happened and I feel a lot better about where things are going, still nervous and dreading how things will be resolved but hey, can't stop now!
Chainfire (2005) 748 pages by Terry Goodkind.The ninth book in the Sword of Truth series.
In all of the books Goodkind switches which characters he follows.
In Chainfire we didn't have any of that until after Richard had figured out some of the essentials.
Chainfire is a mystery.
We know he's not, that it's everyone else that has forgotten Kahlan, but the book goes on and on, with Richard not getting any closer.
Chainfire was the same writing style as the rest of the series, but the mystery was something we hadn't seen since the opening chapters of Wizard's First Rule.
As book 9 of the series, it is not stand alone.
Many events in this book are tied to earlier and the ending does not stand alone as "an ending".
That said, the series is getting tiresome and I am glad that there are only 2 books left.
The books are now about twice as long as they need to be, and while this one wasn't as tiresome as the last, it does tread dangerously close.I'm still giving out fairly high marks for the books, because they are well written and the main story is intriguing.
However, I feel that we are 9 books into a 5 book story.
