https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/92517.The_Glass_Menagerie
Containing seven scenes all in one location and four characters, The Glass Menagerie is powerful piece that is still widely read and studied today.
Amanda Wingfield has been unable to cope with her husband's disappearance of the last sixteen years and has raised her two grown children Tom and Laura essentially on her own.
Because this play takes place in one location and does not contain much action, it was easy to be read and create images of the characters in my mind.
After reading these three plays in close proximity of each other, I see how Williams' characters have remained timeless even fifty years later.
جایی در داستان، جیم می‌‌گوید: «تک‌شاخ‌ها ‌خیلی وقت است که منقرض شده‌ اند» و این است حقیقت خانواده‌ ی «وینگفیلد»، حقیقت «تام»، «آماندا» و «لورا»… آنان منقرض شده‌ اند، در انزوای خود به اغما رفته‌ اند ‌و در خواب قدم برمی‌‌دارند… یکی از سمبل‌های ‌مهم نمایش نامه، «پلکان اضطراری» خانه است، که در دنیای واقعی برای خروج اضطراری از آن استفاده می‌‌شود.
اما در دنیای شخصیت‌های ‌باغ وحش شیشه ای، این پلکان غالباً به عنوان راه ورودی، مورد استفاده قرار می‌‌گیرد!
*Reread for class 2017Still a great play. I originally read this 5 or 6 years ago for my high school English class and it is so interesting now getting a new perspective in a university class.
The Glass Menagerie is a great domestic tragedy with three very distinctive characters--the strong, proud Amanda, the weak and innocent Laura, and the realistic dreamer, Tom. One finds in this play an elegiac portrait of misery, rather than a scalding enactment of taboo.
This pervading and gnawing sense of the Wingfields' doom counters Mother Amanda's brave and delusional hopes and optimism.
Perhaps this collision of Amanda's futile optimism and displaced gentility with the family's sordid present constitutes the primary conflict in the play.
Book Review  4 of 5 stars to The Glass Menagerie, written in 1945 by Tennessee Williams. The play is told from the perspective of Tom, the son of Amanda and brother of Laura, three members of the Wingfield family living in Missouri in the 1930s. Amanda's husband, the and kids father, left years ago and has not been heard from. Both Laura and Tom are in their early twenties. Amanda wants to marry off her daughter, convincing Tom to bring home a friend from work to create a set-up. It fails, as
The play is told from the perspective of Tom, the son of Amanda and brother of Laura, three members of the Wingfield family living in Missouri in the 1930s.
The story has a lot of mini-arcs, all about the different parts of their lives...
It's a good read, especially as a play and has been produced in probably every high school across the country.
especially if you know a little bit about Tennessee Williams - and his own thoughts and actions in the world!
here's the scoop: I read A LOT.
Many thanks to their original creators.[polldaddy poll=9729544]
كل مرة أقرأ فيها لتينسي ويليامزأقول لما لم أختر مسرحية ليوجين أونيلفيما عدا عربة اسمها الرغبة لا أجد لتينيسي ما يشبع نهمي للمسرحولا أجد معه المتعة التي عادة ما أنشدها في قراءة المسرحيةلقد اخترت هذه لشهرتهاولكنني مرة بعد مرة لا أفهم سبب شهرة تينيسي المدويةتجربة أقل من العادية بمراحل
The author has split his personality, and you have Amanda, Laura, Tom and Jim somehow unifying to reflect themselves both the unit and the broken pieces, the ashes of glass that are the reader --at least in my case.A thing of beauty in Williams' hands will always bleed straight from the heart.
Amanda is the promising past --not unlike Blanche would soon be--, and Tom is the delusive present; however, Laura rests on that sofa or sits on this floor, holding her pet glass unicorn, in a place out of any chronological consideration --a real-life reject left behind in her own niche to shine, a prematurely withered moth, because the light was out.
I am completely blown away.
The Glass Menagerie is a perfect mirror of the dysfunctional American family: An overbearing, yet well-intentioned mother abandoned by her lover; A son filled with Hollywood-style dreams of adventure but living a life of monotonous toil; A defective daughter who has little interest in anything, besides the glass animals she collects--week and frail as herself.The way Tennessee Williams pits all of these characters against each other, and how all of their desires come together and blow up in flames is simply perfect.
It starts slow, but for a play so short, it doesn't even matter.
جیم:چی بود بهش خوردم؟لورا:میز بود.جیم:مثل اینکه چیزی از روش افتاد؟لورا:بله. جیم:خدا کنه اون اسب موچیک یه شاخ نباشه.لورا:چرا خودشه.جیم:ای داد شکست؟لورا:حالا مثل اسبای دیگهس، دیگه شاخ نداره.جیم:مگه شاخش...لورا:شکست، عیبی نداره، شاید این یه خوشبختی در حین بدبختیه. میشه گفت کل نمایشنامهی باغ وحش شیشهای توی همین چندتا دیالوگ بیان میشه! نمایشنامهی خوبی بود.
جیم:چی بود بهش خوردم؟لورا:میز بود.جیم:مثل اینکه چیزی از روش افتاد؟لورا:بله. جیم:خدا کنه اون اسب موچیک یه شاخ نباشه.لورا:چرا خودشه.جیم:ای داد شکست؟لورا:حالا مثل اسبای دیگه‌س، دیگه شاخ نداره.جیم:مگه شاخش...لورا:شکست، عیبی نداره، شاید این یه خوشبختی در حین بدبختیه. می‌شه گفت کل نمایشنامه‌ی باغ وحش شیشه‌ای توی همین چندتا دیالوگ بیان می‌شه! نمایشنامه‌ی خوبی بود.
(My mom especially loved the "rise and shine" routine.) Remember that scene in Joe Versus the Volanoe when Tom Hanks didn't know it but he knew it that he couldn't possibly have a "brain cloud"?
(My mom's sympathies were with the mom, Amanda.)I felt like I already knew Laura's displacement.If my twin were here right now I'd ask her if the Paul Newman directed version was one of those filmed from the stage John Malkovich movies like True West and The Death of a Salesman (both are superb if you've never seen 'em).
It's a very short play but it managed to elicit all sorts of feelings from me,especially pity, mainly because the characters all carried some sort of burden or regret.
There's the pushy, abandoned-by-husband single mother who has extremely high demands on her children, the crippled daughter who has extremely low self-esteem, and is still (shock, horror) single at age 24, and the son who is stuck in a job he despises and desires to be a poet.I liked the ending because, although we're not explicitly told what fate brings the main characters, there is a feeling of hope left lingering in the air.
So, since Jillian will have El Filibusterismo next year and she is becoming popular in school because of her monologue, I might as well brush up with my scriptwriting skills ha-ha!I liked The Glass Menagerie so much that I could picture myself sitting in the theatre and watching the play.
Other that these, I find watching plays expensive and too classy for my simple taste.The story is about 4 characters: Amanda (the mother), Laura (the crippled daughter who is too shy to attract suitors), Tom (the son working in a warehouse but dreaming to join the navy) and Jim (Tom's bestfriend who Amanda and Tom thought could be Laura's husband).
مادر گیر کرده در خیالات گذشتلورا وا مانده در نقص جسمانی حال و تام پسر در دام رویاپردازی آیندهو تنها 
دو فرزند خانواده, تام ولورا هردو از بی اعتماد به نفسی رنج برده و هیچ کدام در کار و زندگی موفق نبوده و هرکدام به نوعی در خیالات وهم آلودخودشان به سر میبرند.
برایم جالب است که تنسی ویلیامز در سال 1944 یعنی حدودا 73 سال پیش این داستان را نوشته و وضعیت خانواده آمریکایی هنوز از آن زمان هیچ تغییری نکرده است....!!!در تمام مدت خواندن به دنبال نکته ای تامل برانگیز بودم که مرا از سطح زندگی عادی و روزمرگی آمریکایی به در آورد...نکته ای شاید معنوی, روحی و یا عمیق تر از ناسزاهای مادر به فرزندی که دوست دارد خوشبختی اش را ببیند....برای فهم این داستان باید که زندگی آمریکایی را انگار دیده یا تجربه کرده باشیم که مرزهایش بسیار محدود هستند و تعریفش وابسته به مکان و مردمی خاص....و این شاید دو دلیل عمده ای است که من از خواندن نویسندگان آمریکایی پرهیز میکنم.....
Main characters include Amanda (delusional, childish, dependent, desparate mother), Laura (inhibited, painfully shy daughter), Tom (restless, dreamer, poet, narrator/son), Jim (optimistic, hopeful, gentleman caller).
A play about misdirected dreams and ambitions.
Amanda places her dreams in her children.
Tom places his dreams in adventure and traveling the world like his absentee father.
Laura places her dreams of happiness in her glass menagerie collection.
But these dreams are misplaced, and instead only become desparate attempts to escape from realities.
Disillusionment adds a heavy burden to their very ordinary existences, and only drives them to further retreat in their dreams of better, more fulfilling lives.
هرروز صبح كه مي آي به اتاق منو بيدارم ميكني و ميگي: بلندشو جگرگوشه من مثل خورشيد بدرخش، من پيش خودم ميگم: چه خوشبختن كساني كه مرده ان!واسه خودش شاهكاري بود! رويا بايد انگار هميشه رويا بمونه والا عين تمام واقعيت ها تلخ ميشه...
آدم ها با واقعیت هایِ تلخِ زندگیشون یکسان برخورد نمیکنن. در آخر هم نه کسی که واقعیت رو کورکورانه انکار میکنه بَرَنده س و نه کسی که اون رو اونقدر بزرگ میکنه که مجبور میشه به دنیایِ خیالیِ خودش پناه ببره...نمایشنامه قشنگی بود.
It's great that we got to read and watch The Glass Menagerie as part of my AP Lit class, because I reclaimed my title as extremely obsessive fanboy extraordinaire.There's just so much to love in this play.
However, not all stories that strike home succeed; this one hit the mark in its bittersweet portrayal of a mother who pushes her children in the wrong direction and a son and a daughter who fight back.Highly recommended, especially for those who can watch the film version directed by Paul Newman.*review cross-posted on my blog, the quiet voice.
The Scots playwrights don't fare any better - there's a ton of Scottish poetry on the syllabus, but even for Liz Lochhead the poetry's all we get.Anyway, my copy of The Glass Menagerie has a favourable quote from Arthur Miller on the back, which I think falls under the general heading of "circlejerk", and also means that I'm far too cynical to do this any justice.As usual with this flavour of theatre, it's all gone horribly wrong for everyone, there's no way out (view spoiler)[at least not that isn't going to haunt you forever - what does happen to Laura after her brother makes his escape, after all?
مسرحية "تماثيل الوحوش الزجاجية" هي مسرحية تٌعتبر كسيرة ذاتية للكاتب "تينيسي ويليامز" حيث أنه جسد أوجاعه في هذه المسرحية.المسرحية تتحدث عن العائلة "وينغفيلد" المُكونة من الأم "أماندا" والابن "توم" والأبنة "لورا".الأم تعيش على أوجاع ترك زوجها لها وبحثه عن شئ ما مجهول وذلك يؤثر فيها كثيراً وظهر ذلك في محادثاتها الطويلة التي بلا معنى وكلامها عن الخُطاب السبعة عشر..
والابن يعيش على حلم المغامرة الذي يتمنى أن يعيشها ويُعد نفسه لذلك فعلاً وحتى ذلك الوقت يُقضي كُل وقته في العمل في المستودع أو الذهاب للسينما.أما الأبنة "لورا" الخجولة، صاحبة العرج الخفيف، التي تفشل في كل شئ..
در سینما نشسته ای . نام فیلم: اینجا، بدون منداستان فیلم را نمی دانی. فقط تعریف های کلی از آن شنیده ای.فیلم آغاز می شودحیوانات کوچک شیشه ای، باغ وحش شیشه ایلحظه ی کشفتنسی ویلیامز! باغ وحش شیشه ایبا دخترک همذات پنداری زیادی کردم. دخترکی که دفاعی جز پنهان شدن نداشت
Read this for class and I really liked it! So much symbolism!
"Blow out your candles, Laura." An American theatre classic. Even on the printed page it's a killer.
Society is getting industrialized , the way of life has been changed and the binary btw city/urban life is shown by the Toms wish to become a sailor.
The magical cinema is here, it fills the escape literatures place as the books werent praised in the house.
And how the dream is shattered, how the american dream is shattered for almost all of them, leaving them to live in the nostalgia of good old days.
Tom was fired because he wrote a poem on a shoe box, yeah what a play.
And while reading a play is moving, seeing it is an entirely different experience.
I remember seeing both this play and the movie, and it is unforgettable.
I also have the experience, after taking a Tennessee Williams class in college, or maybe it wasn't a class, maybe just somehow it was incorporated in American Dramatic Theater - I remember feeling the compelling need to read or see every single one of his plays.
I remember that thinking process so distinctly.
But also thinking - if you don't read this now, are you ever truly going to?
«Ο γυάλινος κόσμος» διαπραγματεύεται την καθημερινή ζωή της οικογένειας Γουίνγκφιλντ που ζει στο Σεν Λούις και απαρτίζεται από τον γιο, Τομ, την κόρη, Λάουρα ή Λώρα, και τη μητέρα, Αμάντα.
Άλλωστε δεν έπαψε να δείχνει μικροαστική και προσκολλημένη στα στερεότυπα, σε βαθμό εξοργιστικό: «Όλα τα όμορφα κορίτσια μια παγίδα είναι κι έτσι τα θέλουν οι άντρες!».Ο Τομ Γουίνγκφιλντ δουλεύει σε αποθήκη παπουτσιών για 60 δολάρια τον μήνα, θέλει απελπισμένα να ξεφύγει απ’ όλους αυτούς του περιβάλλοντός τους και της τάξης τους, φτάνει στο σημείο να πει «τι τυχεροί που είναι οι πεθαμένοι» όποτε τον ξυπνά η μάνα του να πάει στη δουλειά.
اون چیزی ک فک میکردم نبود :|
Tennessee Williams proclaims THE GLASS MENAGERIE "the saddest play I have ever written.
It is a story about a mother deserted by her husband long ago, still living in the youth of her past, who is constantly worried about her grown son's nightlife and job stability as well as her terribly shy and slightly "crippled" daughter's marital prospects as she retreats into a world of her own with fragile glass figurines.When a kind and outgoing gentleman comes to dinner, daughter Laura does surprisingly open up to him, even dances, but disappointment soon takes hold with a pronouncement that brings the sky falling down.While sorrowful and filled with an air of despair, the scene with the "gay deceivers" did bring a smile to my face.
One of my favorite plays.
I remember talking about it with a friend in high school, where we realized that from his perspective the play was about Tom, and from my perspective the play was about Laura.
I guess it just depends who you are and where you are at in life.(I'm surprised I've never marked this as read before, and now I'll go off on a play spree.)"Being different is nothing to be ashamed of.
Because other people are not such wonderful people.
They're one hundred times one thousand.
You're one times one!
They walk all over the earth.
در این نمایشنامه دنبال اتفاقاتی عجیب و غریب یا ديالوگ های آنچنانی و تاثیرگذار نباشید و انتظار نسخه پیچیدن برای مصائب آدمی و مشکلات دنیا را نداشتهذباشيد.باغ وحش شیشه ای داستان یک خانواده ی تيپیک آمریکایی ست و بس؛ اما چیزی که متن را این همه گیرا کرده است، شخصیت های جاندار و باورپذیر هستند که انگاری جایی بین خودمان زندگی نی کنند با همین دغدغه های ساده و گاها مبتذل ما.
