https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1279517.The_Grand_Finale
We are the comic relief!Girl: Oh, Secondary Characters, I have learned so much from you!Boy: Wow, you Secondary Characters are very funny!Girl: I must focus!Boy: Yes ...
on me!Girl: I don't want to love you!Boy: Yes, you do!Girl: I love you!Boy: I'm not so sure now!Girl: I'm ready to commit!Boy: I'm having an emotional crisis!Secondary Characters: Look at us!
And we teach a lesson in a not-so-subtle way!Boy: Secondary Characters, I have learned so much from you!Fate: I will magically erase all obstacles to your love, happiness, and economic well-being.
Divorcee Lingonberry Knudsen has a plan for her life: a night time delivery run for her pizza parlour while she goes to daytime classes to get her college degree.
Along the way, Berry has acquired three old ladies in need of accommodation and employment, and life is running smoothly.Falling out of a tree while trying to rescue a kitten, onto a customer’s pizza, was not in the plan; nor was getting distracted by the owner of the kitten.
Jake Sawyer, part-time first grade teacher, part-time inventor, is immediately taken by this quirky beauty.
But Jake is determined to win Berry’s heart.
3 StarsI this book was another ok to read book. It is not my favorite book that I have read. I thought that the "Hero at Large" was a little bit better than this book simply because this book was not really interesting like "Hero at Large" was. I thought that this book was just a another book that I would read only one time. Overall it was cute and just a ok book to read.
A cute little G-rated romance written in typical Evanovich style.
Not my favorite book by the author.
I prefer the Stephanie Plum series, but in reading the author's earlier works it is obvious how the Plum series developed.
Throw in a big goofy dog (Bob), three little old ladies (think Grandma Mazur), and a couple of blown up/stolen cars (a la' Plum).
The plot was a little thin and the romance is cheesy, but it made for a quick, easy read.
I would recommend it if you're a fan of Evanovich and are interested in her earlier works.
If you haven't read her books, I wouldn't suggest you start with this one.
This was the last book in her romance series and I loved them all but this was one of the best of them!
A lot of people don't like romance, its to unrealistic or cheesy for them.
Janet Evanovich does end her stories happily and they might be a bit cheesy, but I'm reading a book I don't want a big dose of reality here.
By the time I get to the last page, I love the characters and I'm sad to close the book.
If you love romance, give these a try.
If you like to laugh, give these books a try.
This was the worst Evanovich book I have read to date.
It was the same cheesy romance as the rest of her earlier books.
But girl meets guy by spying on him while he is changing.
And when she finally sees him naked eventually, he says something along the lines of "See it is more than a few inches." Ewww.
The girl's name is Lingdonberry, which is the worst name I have ever heard for a character.
There are three random old ladies thrown in, and I am not really even sure where they came from.
Instead, this story of a quirky divorcee who owns a pizza joint, attends college, rescues little old ladies living in bus stations and rates an above average in the klutz department is sure to provide a chuckle or two as well as some pretty HOT love scenes.
(Why she was up in the tree and what happens after she comes crashing into Jacks life is the basis for the story......and it's a hoot).
The Keystone Cops mis-adventures of Berry and Jack.......and their three little old ladies is an easy read that will keep you wondering what will happen next to this disaster prone group.
Cute little bit of fluff.
It has all the marks of an Evanovich romance: Cars destoyed and or stolen?
Little old ladies?
She went back to school after the divorce to get her degree and she works full time at the Pizza Shop that she owns.
She has to deliver the pizza's herself and it's while out doing the deliveries that she meets (in true screwball comedy styling) Jake Sawyer.
The plot is thin - the romance is light and it's Evanovich's humor that carries this book all the way.
JE uses characteristics that she later developed better in the Stephanie Plum series (the amazingly hot guy who falls instantly in lust/love with the main character, destroyed/disappearing cars, eating so much sugar a real person would be in diabetic shock, quirky elderly lady's love of the word "pip").
One commendable point is JE always develops good, respectful relationships between the younger and older generations, Berry taking in the 3 ladies and later Stephanie Plum's relationship with her Grandmother.I also must say I know it isn't fair of me to compare this early book to the later Plum books but it seems early on JE created certain plot devices that she likes to use in book after book.
This was the first adult book I was able to complete since the election of 2016. I figured I'd just try to read light light light since the state of the country was so dark dark dark. It didn't make me any happier about the new president but I was able to complete a book. It was fun - not great - silly - and predictable. Characters were likable enough. At least I finished it. Still working on reading anything of substance. I didn't have to worry about that with this one.
I was in the mood for a rainbows, gumdrops and unicorns type of romance book to read over the weekend and this book fit the bill. Nice and lighthearted which is what I needed to escape reality. Great read and likeable characters.
Finished in about 2 hours. What a waste of my time. If it wasn't my bookclub book I would never have read this.
A great title because I am DONE with J. Evanovich and her trite writing. For me it is a True Grand Finale.
This was a fun (funny) quick read.
This was one of those browsing-for-something-for-a-long-car-ride accidental finds, and I do like Janet Evanovich, and she is funny.This is touted as "early Evanovich" so her fans will read it, and it's true, I can definitely see Alex Barnaby, Stephanie Plum, Ranger, and Grandma Mazur prototypes.
And the romance is funny--except for the bits where Berry (which was really hilarious to listen to, as a good [male] friend of mine is Barry and he would definitely not be in these sentences) seems to think that she has to choose between her education and her guy and never really gets to the place where both is an option.
The lack of believability in that one regard is what knocked this down to three stars for me rather than four - because even as I was reading and enjoying the book, I felt like the whole basis of the plot - that Berry and Jake were in love - was not true.
I just didn't believe that it happened as fast as it was supposed to, and though they spent a lot of time together, they never really went on dates and I don't feel like they had a loving relationship.
In a short amount of time, Berry Knudsen was able to see a half naked man, which caused her to fall out of a tree, land on a large pizza, then she had to watch her own Jeep fly off a cliff, see two different cars get stolen and watch her apartment burn to ash.
Luckily Jake was a 1st grade teacher and had the patience to wait, and the determination to win her over - maybe.Another great example of Janet Evanovich's earlier work, it is light hearted and fun and the characters are written in a way that allows a connection (at least for me it does).
The story never quite gelled and moved entirely too quickly to ring true.
It's a G rated romance with lots of quirky humor...maybe just a bit too much.The story is the tale of a young, divorcee who is struggling to get by with her pizza business while finishing college.
Since her first marriage derailed her life plan, she's now determined to stick with her goals without deviation.
And none of those goals involve a hunky, inventor/schoolteacher...no matter how great he looks, and acts, and kisses, and...oh dear!For me, this was just too lightweight all around.
I think the romance should have taken a bit longer but then theres always the love at first sight angle...Berry is a mess.
I loved her character so much.
She was just a comedy of tragic events waiting to happen and that poor man, Jake happens to get caught right up in the middle of her life of chaos and he falls madly in love with her but it takes Berry some convincing because she has her life headed and planned out just as she wants it and romance is not included in that!I don't think I want Berry delivering any pizza's to me!
Once burned, twice shy Berry Knudsen is very leery of the cute guy who has taken an interest in her. It's kind of funny how Berry turns into a klutz whenever Jake Sawyer is around. Berry is one of those woman who is just good-people, rescuing little old ladies from being homeless and even though she can barely afford to feed herself, moves them into her apartment and has them working in her pizza restaurant. And then along comes Jake whom she meets while delivering a pizza and things go all topsy-turvy. Another cute and funny romance from Janet Evanovich.
I use the Stephanie Plum series as brain-candy, so I was looking forward to more of the same when someone lent me this. Unfortunately, I just wan't able to get into the story. The characters felt more like stereotypes, and while I realize that is, to an extent, what she was shooting for, it's just a bit dull. This reads like someone who hasn't really found a voice yet, but is gamely making do with a mishmash of borrowed plot devices (hot man, plucky divorcee, nosy and slightly inappropriate old ladies, absent-minded scientist, etc.)
I come back to this book every time I need to happy break - a push to chill out.
I've lost count how many times I've read it, and it always puts me in a good mood.
Berry Knudsen is trying to get her life back on track.
She has a plan: finish school, work at her pizza place, get married, etc.
But life gets in the way in the form of three really adorable old ladies and Jake Sawyer, who meets Berry and has a plan of his own.
I really love Evanovich's early romance series - they're light, funny and full of great characters who have 'pip'.
This is the last of Janet Evanovich's romance novels from back when she first started writing. I do like them even though I'm not generally a fan of romance novels. This stuff doesn't happen in real life, but I do find them amusing.I also like Janet Evanovich's quote:"Romance novels are birthday cake and life is peanut butter and jelly...everyone should have lots of delicious romance novels lying around for those times when the peanut butter of life gets stuck to the roof of your mouth." - 1988
I needed a bit of a break from all the serious fiction and fantasy books I have been reading lately and this was perfect. It's a light, cute book that was enjoyable. The beginning of the book was good with Berry climbing up a tree to help save a poor kitten and then the lights went on...I'll leave it there because it was a good start to the book and I don't want to spoil it for you. If you're in the mood for something light and cute, this is probably a good bet! Enjoy!!
I read all of Janet Evanovich, even the 12 books that were reprinted after she became such a popular author. This is the last of the 12 to be re-issued, and I am so glad that we are done with them. Formulaic, silly, a bit enjoyable but less so as I read more and more of them. I still love the Stephanie Pum novels, but the straight romance novels simply are not as good.Best thing is that they are VERY fast reads!
In general, I think the Stephanie Plum "mystery" series is kind of funny. They are easy read, romantic escapism...like what you read after finishing War and Peace and you need a break.This was not a Stephanie Plum book but a librarian told me it was funny...either I'm getting pickier or this was a toss off because I barely finished it....and didn't really care if I did.
If your suffering from Evanovich's Stephanie Plum series withdrawl you may want to check this book out. Girl meets handsome guy in the most unusual of circumstances. One dog, two compromised cars, three old ladies, and a partridge in a pear tree later (just kidding about the partridge and tree) you get one funny romance that will tickle your funny bone and appease your need for Plum.
Berry owns a pizza shop and is making a delivery one night when she finds a kitten stuck in a tree (only while up there she discovers an undressing Jake only to fall and make quite an introduction. Jake is smitten and Berry fights against her feelings because they upset her life plan. A cute and funny romance that is a light and quick read
This book is pure fluff. One of J.E.'s first attempts at writing a novel. It was updated and re-released under the assumption that the author's loyal fans would flock to the stores to buy it. If you're a die-hard fan, I'd recommend borrowing it from the library (but only if you've run out of stuff to read). Don't waste your money on this one.
The worse book I've read in five years. Incredibly poor character development. Potentially "cute" plot ruined because this book appears to have been written in about 48 hours. The JE has more potential than this!
