https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/171833.Saville
This novel epitomizes one of my favorite quotes:"Literature is the art of discovering something extraordinary about ordinary people, and saying with ordinary words something extraordinary." ― Boris PasternakReading this book really is an extraordinary experience! I found much of it to be very comforting, very homey. I found other parts to be quite disturbing. This novel affected me in ways that I'm still trying to sort out. I suspect this is a story that I'll continue to think about, to try to come to terms with it, for a long time.
What I really liked about this 1976 Booker Prize winning novel is its Coetzeeshness.
This book is all about Coal Minor's son Colin Saville and pictures from his life, right from his birth to bitter adulthood, vacillating in angry formulas of life.
But the areas where this book scores are dark, rummaging and going-no-where kind of a life.
The meaningless of his family for him, the dullness of his school and later his job, the failed relationship and still the agony of living in the same space with no promising light around.I was really afraid to start this book but thank god I came across this.
This review has been hard to write, because this book has been extremely difficult to read.
It tells the tale of Colin Saville, son of a coal miner in a 1930s Northern British mining village, who wins a scholarship to the prestigious local grammar school, and his subsequent struggle to build a life for himself in spite of his family’s grinding poverty.
Colin tries to fit in with the other boys at the grammar school but his humble origins are constantly shown up and his inability to fit in alienates him from his peers and his family, leaving him with nowhere to go.Saville is unremittingly grim.
Saville is filled with coal mining history and follows the life of the main character caught up in the middle of it. Detailed and emotional, it's a really unforgettable story.
They went on to win at Wembley that year, beating Huddersfield in the game where Neil Fox used a drop goal strategy not seen before or since.But before that cup-tie against Wigan, the packed Trinity ground became a film set.
Of course, we now live in an age where the individual is the norm, the indivisible unit of society and, perhaps, where an idea of community is mere nostalgia.Above all else David Storey’s Saville evokes a time and a place.
Although somewhat bleak this book stayed with me and really gripped me. It really puts you in the shoes of the main character.
Родители Колина Сэвила заставляют его учиться изо всех сил, ибо это его единственный шанс вырваться из этого окружения.
Это, условно, первая часть книги.Теперь, надо понимать, что это было за время, когда Стори взялся за перо.
Стори показывает в своей книге, что хотя рабочий класс и существует, всё равно каждый человек - индивидуальность.
Итого, как мне кажется, Стори не считает, что нужна некая коммунистическая революция и уровняловка.
Ребёнок был для родителей только инвестицией, от которой ожидалась только прибыль в будущем, личность Колина никому не нужна - слишком его родители простоваты для этого, хоть и подсознательно понимают кое-что (см.
And in the end, as Saville tries to find his own identity and pressure his brothers to do the same, he is convinced that rather than doing him a favor, his parents have forced him in to "prostitution." His sense of duty to the family, supplying wages and staying at home, has turned to bitter resentment that he claims he has no way out of.So, when he finally does leave, is it permanent?
While Colin's parents supported him, MR's father ridiculed his violin playing and berated his mother for supporting him, leaving Michael with no real sentiment or attachment to them as they fell ill.
If you grew up in a low-income family; particularly if you've been exposed to a more comfortable way of life (tertiary education or more well-off mates), then this book will surely strike a chord with you. Powerful stuff.
It felt very removed from that which it was narrating, the sense of alienation which the main character, Colin, feels by the end, being a part of the reader-experience throughout.
This environment and the changes which it went through were evoked in a great deal of clarity.But I am afraid that the same cannot be said of the characters.
Colin only seems to age by virtue of getting older and the world around him changing.
I found myself in the same position of puzzlement that Colin did – like him, I did not understand his character the way others seemed to.
Similarly, the main character is conflicted about his town: he feels his mining roots strongly, but at the same time yearns for a life free of it but can never quite shed his own skin.
The novel’s purpose is clear from the beginning and instead Storey focuses on telling a good story about characters you can engage with.
He is selfish; he is stubborn; he is good enough to scramble out of the mining town but not quite good enough to be great; and that makes for an interesting character and an interesting story.
Brought all sorts of other books to my mind: Sons and Lovers by DH Lawrence, of course, Room at the Top by John Braine, even How Green Was My Valley by Richard Llewellyn. Early/mid-century bildungsroman among the industrial working class and the tensions created by aspirations to escape one's environment while also feeling connected to it.
I read this book years ago and came back to it wanting to enjoy the work again. Unfortunately this was a book that perhaps does not bear a second reading. It is now painfully outdated. This was a surprise. I've re-read a number of Booker prize winners over the years and most do stand the test of time. I read Docherty for the first time recently and feel that, if you're after working class grit and grim, you might be better served choosing that book.
An intense coming of age story that starts off stronger than it finishes, as your hope ebbs for Colin Saville. I became very invested in the main character and it was agonizing to go through the later stages of his young adulthood. A very realistic book that reads as black, white and grey as I imagine 1940s and 50s Wakefield must have been. Powerful, vivid writing.Not to give anything away, the last line reads: "Above a distant line of trees, a smear of blackish smoke appeared." Yup.
This book is just a little bit depressing.The evocation of time, place and character is strong, but the alienation of the eponymous hero is reflected in a narrative that only really describes the outside of everything. The story is disjointed and there seem to be huge blank areas of the character's life about which we are told nothing.
I would like to read this book, but after going through this app I am still not able to figure out how to download the book so I can read it. I have clicked on "to read" but nothing happens, so even though this app has great reviews I am quickly giving up on it, even though there are several books I would like to read.
Story of a young boy growing up in a bleak mining town, and the events and his efforts to escape to be something other than another collier. Well written with a good cast of characters from the different classes of people.
Finishing it felt like being released from prison.
1976 BookerStory of Colin Saville, from birth until he finally decides to take control of his life.
great
Found Saville a very difficult character to warm to. Just found him very insipid, wanted him to have a back bone and to achieve something.
I liked this book. Well written. Kept me engaged. Made me think, reflect, and wonder. Can't ask for more from a book, so I'm glad I rescued it from my husband's hometown library's giveaway shelf.
1976 Booker Prize
Really good story!
mmm at first time i think it was like Seville city in Spain :)hh I'm Just Joking but The story is disjointed and there seem to be huge blank areas of the character's life.I enjoy
I thought the last part of this book was really excellent but it just took far too long getting there.
The main characters are as complex and contradictory as human beings tend to be, Saville himself more than any.This is not a book to “like” for twists and turns of plot, for the author does not play soap opera games with us.
But it depicts struggle, opportunity, progress and life choices with engaging subtlety.Many of us have experienced the contradictions and alienation of Saville’s progress through the education system and “upward” through the social strata.
Saville’s frustration with his younger brother Steven’s approach to life is wonderfully depicted in all its timeless relevance.David Storey’s prose flows smoothly.
It also allows some complex philosophical exploration.
This is going to be a curious review because I have some very contradictory feelings about this book.
First, the storyline is fairly dull and uneventful which is not a noteworthy asset for a 500 page book.
However, I found the book to be almost mesmerizing and rather enjoyable.
The story follows the life of a young boy growing up in a lower working class family and has hints of exposing some of the injustice of the class system as well as an abusive school system, but this is really not the focus of the book.
The writing is exceptional which may account for why such a dull book can be so good.
A rather long book that has much detailed description that certainly evoked the time, place, and circumstances of the characters. I found it an easy book to read until the last part where there is a lot of philosophising which wasn't found in the rest of the book.
