https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1101837.Chaka
It has started to really bother me when those who rose to power and built empires through force are presented as Great Men, as admirable or heroic.
But we are fascinated by power, and there’s never a shortage of people who are willing to read history through rose-tinted bifocals.
It doesn’t even pretend to be; it’s told very much in a mythic, folkloric style rather than a historically realist one, and it takes substantial liberties with the history for the sake of telling a good story, to the point of inventing major characters — including Chaka’s love interest and a sorcerer who provides him with his power.
Ik heb nu best wat teksten over Shaka gelezen en waarom vinden zoveel auteurs het nodig om een vrouwelijk personage erbij te verzinnen die alleen maar als plot device en ter versterking van Shaka's karakter wordt ingezet??
This novel gives a highly fictionalised account of the great Shaka, from the circumstances surrounding his death, to his rise to never before seen power and culminating in the prophetic claim of the coming of the white man in his death.Chaka is a classic tragedy - there's the flawed character, Chaka; supernatural occurrences in the form of the sorcerer, Isanusi; and the tragic end of this bloodthirsty anti-hero (according to the novel).What this novel, which the translator, Daniel Kunene, tries to highlight the African form of storytelling with, does is to spark an interest in the real historical figure of Chaka.
an underappreciated epic.really enjoyed this book, far more than I expected.
Written like a greek tragedy, it plays on the mythology and wonder of Africa, and digs deep into a culture struggling through tribal war and tyrannical order.
I loved the idea of the witchdoctor playing a major role in Chaka's ascension as well the character development of chaka himself.
I perhaps wish some other side characters like nandi or noliwe could have had some more attention, however the main focus is Chaka and I understand this.
It gives two sides to one life and made this book all the more tragic.
Ke ratile mokgwa oo Ntate Mokopu a nqoqetseng pale ena ka teng.
Ke rata mokgwa oo a ngotseng puo yeso ka teng.
Ke lakatsa e ka ho ne ho sa ka ha fetolwa mokgwa oo re ngolang Sesotho ka mona ka Aforika Borwa.Ena ke pale e utlwisang bohloko e bile e kwatisa.
Hore ho tlileng jwang hore difaqane di be teng le hore madimo a bakuwe ke eng.Ke iketletse yona pale ena hobane e ne e nkama maikutlo ka mokgwa o etsang hore ke batle ho phomola, nke ke lebale ka diketsahalo tseo ke seng ke badile ka tsona.Sesotho se monate se ngotsweng mona.
A tragic tale of the rise and fall of one of the greatest military minds in Africa Shaka. Despite the book containing minor typos, it was an enjoyable read. I love how the author first introduces us to our protagonist and the circumstances surrounding his upbringing which draws us in into Shaka's world - his rise, attainment of power, amassing great wealth and his ultimate downfall. Some great scenes in the book with some loopholes as can be expected of such an account but overall a good read.
Had no understanding of why Chaka was such a great figure in African history. By the end of the atory, regardless if some information was fact or fiction, I couldn't stand to read about Chaka and the atrocities he had committed.
The last part ends on a nightmarish and bloody portrayal of Chaka's late rule.Mofolo largely follows what we know of the historical figure, but he exaggerates here and there for dramatic effect.
I think the best finding of the book, which makes it entertaining, is the trio Isanusi - Ndlebe - Malunga, the three doctors who appear midway and who account for the supernatural character of Chaka's destiny: his talent to impress, lead and rule stroke as lightning in a feudal society made of villages and small trade.
I suspect Mofolo to have a Christian reading: Chaka's warmongering and hunger for fame is a road of increasing murders and folly.
The story of a mass murderer, a blood thirsty King satiated, only, by endless killing.Mofolo writes with a near Roman Histories sort of pithiness.
Mofolo, possibly in order to justify his focus on the merciless slaughter, invents a demonic witch doctor who blesses Chaka's life with medicines and blessings.
Mofolo's Chaka is a dispassionate psychopath - who can only be comforted by murder, death, and the spilling of blood.
All in his eternal quest to be the one true King.
His only two goals in life were to kill and rule.
And mass murder is the order of the last 80 pages.
Just when I thought I was finishing up my reading project in African literature, I found a box in my garage with several much older works.Thomas Mofolo (1876-1948), from Lesotho, was associated with the Morija Christian mission.
This was his third novel, written in the Sesotho language; according to the translator's introduction, it was largely completed in 1909-1910 when he left the mission, taken up again and revised in 1922, and published in 1925.
The novel was first translated into English by F.
The novel is quite good on its own terms; it is even more interesting in the way that Mofolo, an African educated in the European-Christian tradition, combines the styles and viewpoints of the two cultures.
Mofolo chooses to present Chaka as a "great man falling." I kept thinking about how much I could feel the influence of early Christian missionaries in the way the story was presented and how the early days of the Zulu nation were described.
However, Mofolo interpretation is obviously not intended to be history as much as legend, and the fantastical elements in his work have a slow but strong and stirring build.The novel is a bit predictable, in the same way that Greek tragedies are a bit predictable, but since it's longer than a play, I found my attention wandering from time to time.
It is culturally significant, but it is also a good novel in its own right.It follows the story of Zulu king Chaka, from birth, through rise to power, until his death.
At this point he has a choice to either rule wisely and in relative peace, as his predecessor did, or to become a agressor, making war on his neighbouring tribes and becoming more powerful, but less human.Thomas Mofolo makes that choice a pivotal moment and by doing so he writes a novel which is a Greek tragedy in an African idiom, rather than a uniquely African story.
Chaka (or Shaka) is a real historical figure, the creator of the Zulu nation.
Never officially recognized by his father the king, he fought his way into his kingdom and was a bloodthirsty ruler, waging war on any and all neighboring kingdoms.
In the book, he is credited with driving his people to cannibalism (previously unknown) due to lack of food from his warmongering.
All of Chaka's success (and madness?) is credited to sorcery in this book, and Chaka kept choosing fame, glory and an expanding kingdom over mercy and love of his family and subjects.
Food: very rare steak.
A little char on the outside, but real bloody on the inside.
A fascinating telling of the tale of Chaka, Zulu king and mass murderer.
At first, it seems like a history of a great leader and ambitious creator of the Zulu people.
Then, the story becomes increasingly horrific as Chaka devolves from a strong and charismatic young warrior to a vengeful and evil murderer.
Throughout, I was compelled to keep reading to see where the story would lead even though it was clear early on that the tale could only end in tremendous violence and horror.
Very good writing and character exploration! Mokopu Mofolo was a very good writer and the story is both absorbing and informative, in an emotional way that left me better informed about Zulu colonialism in SA history. The evil blow that swept through southern Africa, left everyone traumatized, and almost prepared the way for when white colonizers came. Such that the europeans arrived and colonized an already-traumatized group of southern African tribes barely recovered from a wave of terror from Shaka's rampage.
Commandé par des missionnaires dans l'Afrique australe du début du XXe siècle, cette «épopée bantoue» est pourtant étrangement ambivalente; on ne sait s'il faut admirer ou craindre Chaka, s'il faut applaudir sa résilience ou condamner ses massacres. Cette ambiguïté se retrouve jusque dans le sorcier féticheur de Chaka, représenté comme bienfaiteur ou comme démon. Cette recherche d'équilibre est étonnante dans ce genre de récit, souvent très manichéen. Une lecture définitivement intéressante et qui le devient encore plus lorsqu'on la fait miroiter avec d'autres œuvres apparentées.
A marvelous, biblical tale of ambition, intention and, in the end, sheer malice. By the end of this novel, I was riveted by the absolute horror of the tale. The writing is excellent, as well. Mofolo was educated by missionaries, and the work was translated by missionaries, so it develops a mythic, bible-ese voice that fills the tale (itself vaguely based on historical fact) with an epic tone.Really, really good.
[#44 Lesotho] "Chaka, originator-of-all-things-evil" is a great summary of the guy. I liked the story of this castaway son of a king, as he slowly descended into cruelty and madness while trying to extend his power. The last part wasn't maybe as interesting, since there's nothing new under the sun, he's just killing more and more people. Side note: the font of this edition is microscopic, why would you do that?
[Around the World challenge: Lesotho] "Chaka, originator-of-all-things-evil" is a great summary of the guy. I liked the story of this castaway son of a king, as he slowly descended into cruelty and madness while trying to extend his power. The last part wasn't maybe as interesting, since there's nothing new under the sun, he's just killing more and more people. Side note: the font of this edition is microscopic, why would you do that?
It reads like a Hindu myth, which attributes to its fantastic quality and moral instruction. However, the text is essentially a parable extended into a short novel complete with notes directed at the reader to explain the subtext and thought processes of the characters. This makes for a slow trudge through the pages..,
Angiveligt en af de første bøger af sort afrikaner, selvom den er udgivet i 1924. Plottet: helten fødes som arving til kongeriget, men forstødes pga. intrigante brødres mødre (kongen har flere koner), men vinder kongeriget, selvom han socialt kommer fra fattige kår. Stilen er naiv og ind imellem direkte kluntet. Sikkert relevant for mennesker med interesse i afrikansk litteratur.
Violent yet often beautiful, this fictionalized account of Chaka (or Shaka) and the rise of the Zulu nation reads as half-historical fiction, half-mythology. The ending is less strong than the beginning; though Chaka's brutality is part of the historical record, some of the fictional incidents of extreme violence that appear in the second half of the book make Chaka seem almost a caricature.
Lesothiske Thomas Mofolos klassiske roman om zulukongen Shaka kan stadig læses med udbytte – men alderen fornægter sig ikke, og har nok mest litteraturhistorisk interesse i dag.Læs hele anmeldelsen på K's bognoter: http://bognoter.dk/2018/06/02/thomas-...
Great little book about the rise and fall of the great Shaka, or uShaka (Zulu) or Chaka (Sesotho), king of the Zulus. One of the first novels (if not the first) published by an African author.I read the first edition. The current one is the I-don't-know-how-many-th edition.
I had to read it for one of my classes at Bridgewater, but I enjoyed it a lot more than I thought it would. This translation reads pretty easily, and the story of Chaka is engaging and tragic. Would definitely consider reading it again.
COMPRAR
Really hoped it would be better.
I thought this book wasnt good at all. The reason i think this is because it didnt have no action or anything exciting in it so it was really boring.
good
An amazing work. The author was an extremely gifted storyteller, and he crafts a compelling psychological portrait of a man whose brutal childhood turned him into a murderer on an epic scale.
