https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/394616.Essays_of_E_B_White
These essays are the reason I love reading essays to begin with. Five or ten minutes in the company of Mr. White's opinions, written by the master stylist that he is, leaves me feeling happy, refreshed, relaxed, and most of the time, amused. They are wonderful and he wrote a lot of them during his time at the New Yorker, so I don't have to stop with this book.
There is really no way for a man to put his arms around a big house plant and still remain a gentleman. E.B. White’s name, along with Will Strunk’s, is now synonymous with good style. If that isn’t a compliment to a writer, I don’t know what is. My first encounter with the duo was in my high school English class of junior year. My teacher was old-fashioned enough to believe that we should learn how to use punctuation. This came as a shock, since none of her predecessors had spared so much as a
It was with bewilderment and wonder, then, that I opened up The Elements of Style and encountered this sentence: “The colon has more effect than the comma, less power to separate than the semicolon, and more formality than the dash.” How often is so much instruction packed into so few words?In college I picked up the habit of rereading Strunk and White at least once a year.
White’s writing, while personable, charming, and full of feeling, does not leap from the page into your living room.
It is writerly writing.His style is conversational, not aphoristic.
From the author of Charlotte's Web, this collection of essays is as powerful as it is original, and definitely a classic in every sense of the word.
Lastly, I knew E.B. White was the resident essayist for years at the New Yorker, and I had read a piece or two of his during college and graduate writing programs, and found them—as I expected from the editor of the Elements of Style—to be refined and distinct, even if I believed they were too patricianly contented for my taste.Now, I've worked my way through this collection concurrently with David Foster Wallace's A Supposedly Fun Thing I'll Never Do Again, and I couldn't think of a more illuminating contrast.
More interesting are the current events that are still current, for example urban sprawl and pollution.
Included is the staple of Freshman English, "Once More to the Lake."From "Unity:" "We cannot conceivably achieve [peace] merely by relaxing the tensions of sovereign nations; there is an unending supply of them....
You could relax every last tension tonight and wake tomorrow morning with all the makings of war, all the familiar promise of trouble." White goes on to explain very carefully why 'disarmament' is no solution.
Very interesting.(Fascinating how the man wrote so well on so many different subjects.
The essays cover many different topics, such as the art of writing, appreciation of life’s small delights, wildlife (animals, flowers, birds), books and authors such as The Lives and Times of Archy and Mehitabel by Don Marquis, Henry David Thoreau aand The Elements of Style by William Strunk Jr., trips to Alaska and Florida, the tribulations of adolescence, Christmas holidays, disarmament, energy…….
THIS is how I want all audiobooks to be read!I can tell you what the essays cover but it is how they are written that enchants.
The book as a whole I enjoyed very, very much and thus am giving it four stars.
Here are some of the opening sentences found in this collection of essays.To come upon an article in the Times called "The Meaning of Brown Eggs" was an unexpected pleasure.
Someone told me the other day that a seagull won't eat a smelt.
I spent several days and nights in mid-September with an ailing pig.
Mosquitoes have arrived with the warm nights, and our bedchamber is their theater under the stars.
On any person who desires such queer prizes, New York will bestow the gift of loneliness and the gift of privacy.
22 of the 31 essays in this collection appeared originally in  The New Yorker .
- give me the opportunity to give half-stars!
This book is a classic 3.5 stars.
Mr. White was a wonderful essayist.
This particular collection contains more than a few gems but is too inconsistent to make the entire volume a ' must read.' Yet, even as I write that last sentence, I doubt myself for I did enjoy the book and am quite thankful that I read it.
I will say that this collection has inspired me to research other notable essayists and has given me a deep appreciation for the genre.
We should all be essayists - even poor ones.

It turns out E.
B. White is clever, warm, and eloquent-- as the writer of Elements of Style ought to be.
He writes about pretty much everything: books, politics, the city, the country, his rattletrap car, the debate on brown vs.
white eggs, all with both ease and conviction.
"All that I ever hope to say in books is that I love the world.
I guess you can find it there, if you dig around." That's what E.
B. White has to say for himself.
And if you don't love the world already, reading these essays is a good way to start.
I took my time reading these essays, one at a time, over the past summer.
It ended up being one of the best reading experiences I've had.To quote E.B. White - "As a writing man, or secretary, I have always felt charged with the safekeeping of all unexpected items of worldly and unworldly enchantment, as though I might be held personally responsible if even a small one were to be lost."That's exactly the thought behind each of these pieces, and reading them, you're always anxious to discover which memorable slice of life will be wrapped up in the next one.
I like Charlotte's Web but, I feel like the majority of his other writing is dry. Read for class.
He based his selections on his own enjoyment upon re-reading and on their durability.The selections here are varied and cover White's time in Maine, Florida and New York.
White experienced life both on a small farm and in the big cities and essays of both are included here.
The essays also show off his sentimental side, writing about taking his crush to a dance in the city and taking his son to the lake his own father took him to as a child.
A few of the essays lagged for me, perhaps the result of reading them back to back which at times put me in a state of lethargy.
I am continually amazed by and incredibly appreciative of E.B. White's writing, no matter whether his subject is spiders, pigs, roofing the barn, hurricanes, or war.
He started writing essays around 1930 and continued for decades; his children's fiction was published about 70 years ago, and his writing is still relevant today and has so much to offer current readers.
We should all do what, in the long run, gives us joy, even if it is only picking grapes or doing laundry.Reading E.B. White's writing, whether it is essays, letters, or fiction, gives me joy and hope.
I often find that a large amount of non-fiction books are written by people who White calls (himself included), "sustained by the childish belief that everything he or she thinks is of general interest." So White admits this elephant in the room straight away, so you can get on with reading the rest of his works.
He talks about the effects of progress, technology, and politics -if you just changed the date on a few of his essays, you might think they were written recently.
The best book I have read in three years.
It is this largess that accounts for the presence within the city's walls of a considerable section of the population; for the residents of Manhattan are to a large extent strangers who have pulled up stakes somewhere and come to town, seeking sanctuary or fulfillment or some greater or lesser grail.
No one should come to New York to live unless he is willing to be lucky."
Full disclosure I did not read ALL the essays but, the ones I read I did enjoy. This is not really my type of book. Rather dense reading where you have to slow down and pay attention to detail because White is very witty. Enjoyable slow read.
i read this to learn how it's done when it's done in finest form.
i read this to shout hallelujah at the end of a marvelous sentence, or at the choice of a word that takes my breath away.
i read this to wipe tears from my cheeks.
i read this to laugh out loud and mercilessly.
this book is the holy mecca for those of us who can't stop believing in the power of word to burrow deep within the human heart and take us hostage, to clomp onto a brain cell and draw pictures we've never seen before.
the 1947 essay, "death of a pig," is poetry in long form.
I had a difficult time rating this book. There were a handful of essays I really liked--mostly the autobiographical ones. I always think of EBW as a kind grandfatherly figure, but he lived quite the eclectic, adventurous, activist life. He is the "White" in Strunk and White's"Elements of Style." I often thought of his political essays -- the more things change the more they stay the same. However there were many essays that just didn't seem relevant or interesting to me. When I did a mathematical analysis I ended up with a 2.5.
I am not an essay fan or a short fan but you cannot get better than E. B. White's essays. I can't believe I've gone 65 years without anyone suggesting I read them. They're fabulous and in both political and environmental they're unfortunately very much on target. Sometimes it was hard to believe I was reading a piece written 50 plus years ago and not written recently. I highly recommend them to anyone.
E.B. White is so good at describing the seemingly-mundane, not in a way that transforms it into something magical, but in a way that simply brings to light all that is actually going on in the world around us. I want to develop his poetically scientific (or is that scientifically poetic?) eye and appetite for what the world has to offer. It's damn near spiritual.
E. B. White was a great essayist. If you want to spend a month reading an essay every morning I highly recommend this book. Whether it was observations of life on the farm and by the sea in Maine, or the ever changing world of New York in the 1930's - 60's, White does a masterful job of describing what he sees and experiences. Read this.
"When my wife's Aunt Caroline was in her nineties, she lived with us, and she once remarked: 'Remembrance is sufficient of the beauty we have seen.' I cherish the remembrance of the beauty I have seen."One of the purest, loveliest writers I've ever encountered. This was worth the time it took to read, and I have a feeling I'll be dipping into it again and again.
I read this a long time ago, and I believe it is time to revisit it. I remember reading one essay a night right before bed. It was like treating myself to a piece of great dark chocolate before bed.
Having acquired several more books of this lovely man's writing, I finally braved the final essay.
E.B. White was a writer for The New Yorker magazine from its beginning in 1925; however,even before that he was quite the adventurer.
There are stories of his youth, life as a writer, as a writer for the magazine, stories from the city and about life on his farm in New Hampshire.
Because these are essays, it's a book that it's easy to put down and pick up again later.
I don't feel as though I've read a book so much as made a new friend!
Having just finished reading "The Essays of E.B. White", I feel as though I have lost a friend.
I grew up with White's three children's books-- which I still love now as an adult-- but I had only read one of his essays ("Once More to the Lake") before this.
The world is a better place for having had White in it, and I'm heartbroken that I could never know him personally.
I will definitely be seeking out more of White's writings now, so I can keep getting to know this long-lost friend I never really had.
I dithered around quite a bit before settling on this book.
I chose it mainly because I wanted to read more good essays.
I've enjoyed the longer pieces by John McPhee, so why not give E.
B. White a try.
I am so glad I did.
His essays are delightful.
I particularly enjoyed his essays describing life on his farm, and on his perceived demise (in 1959) of passenger trains.In his voice, I recognize the style that Andy Rooney adopted in his own writing.
I couldn't get enough of White's essays.
Upon finishing this collection, I immediately started reading One Man's Meat.
Forty-four years ago, my English Comp professor dissected White's "This is New York" as an example of what it means to write well. I've loved White's work ever since, and it was now high time I reread some of his best essays. Truly a master of the form.
E.B. White is a master of the essay. I found the essays of his time on his farm to be both heartfelt and amusing. When I finished the book I felt sad because it was like I was saying goodbye to an old friend.
In this collection of his essays published in various magazines over the years (from 1920s to 1970s), Whites recorded the overtones of humanity, democracy, and social concerns in ordinary things and experiences described in elegant and crisp prose style that resembles none other than his, thus making him one of the central figures in the canon of American literature without dispute.
However, it is this estate of an essayist Whites feels exhilarated about; it provides him with a valve of the emotional influx and outflow, so that he can wield his pen across a page in an expense of his curiosity, conviction, observation, and self-discipline, producing a dazzling delight of literary pleasure in its simplicity of language and subject.
