https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/421640.Then_There_Were_Five
I adored this book, and still have a huge soft spot for it.This middle grade novel was first published while WWII was still in full swing, and the war provides the backdrop for the story of the four Melendy children, Mona, Rush, Miranda (Randy) and Oliver, ages 15 to 7.
There are also some delightful humorous moments:As [Randy] swam she encountered an occasional floating leaf; an occasional struggling fly or beetle.
Heaven ceased to contemplate Miranda Melendy and went about its business, and Randy's halo fell off and was lost in thirty feet of water.I fell in love with this book as a teenager, and it holds up well with adult rereading.
We loved the details of summer, the flora and fauna, the picnics, the outdoor play.
This is a wonderful book about family life, we loved the sibling relationships, close without being nauseating, realistic and fun.
One thing that puzzles us is that Mrs Melendy who died when the youngest was small is never mentioned, we expected the odd moment of them missing their mum or feeling sad on an anniversary etc.
A really wonderful book and a perfect summer read that will inspire you to go and make some lemonade, pack up a picnic and spend the day outdoors.
And we get to see Randy writing TATSINDA!1/10This is without a doubt my favorite Melendy book, what with all the botanizing.
The Melendy kids are a little more grown-up, and their world is so lovely that one wishes one could walk inside the pages and sleep in the cupola.
Her ability to see to the heart of a person is magical, and unlike so many new writers, she peers into good and loving hearts.
The used-to-world is all cut away from us now; floating away in the distance like a balloon or a bubble.
Perhaps it's a good thing that it's gone.
I'm continuing to enjoy these episodic stories - I love the way Enright captures the children's perspectives on everyday and extraordinary things.
It's fascinating that Enright was writing these first three books (The Saturdays, The Four-Story Mistake, and this one) during WWII - they were published between 1941 and 1944.
I don't know how this comes across to modern kids, but it must have been compelling for kids reading the books as they were published, to see the details of war-time life on the page.
There are no great tragedies related to the war, but you do see the way it affects the family.
Another wonderful, beautifully written Melendy book. (This is #3). It takes place mostly during summer, and is a great book for summer months. I really, really love the descriptions, and how the Melendy siblings--and their friends and family--feel so real and so likable. These are among my favorite books :-) And after reading this (and also "Seventeenth Summer" by Maureen Daly), it's almost a let down to go back to reading "ordinary" books that aren't as beautifully written :-D
What an extremely good. The adoption lady! Exploding tomatoes! Radio dramas!
what struck me in this re-reading (my first in five or six years) is the extent to which the kids have rich inner lives. I think this influenced me a lot; like Randy and Mona, I still pretend I am someone else a lot.
The kids (Mona, Rush, Randy, and Oliver) are all satisfying characters (though I feel like Mona's a bit less developed than the others, or maybe I'm just less interested in her), and their country-adventures in this book are fun to read about.
But more than the adventures or the characters, what I think I love most about these books is the way that Enright captures the texture of the Melendy family's daily life, and the daily life of the world in which they live.
Beautifully narrated, which is such a relief.
One worries, especially when old favorites are at stake.
I love this book best of any of Enright's work, which is saying a lot.
It's a perfectly splendid book, full of botany (gentians!), fauna (luna moth!
bats!), the best children ever, the most congenial adults, and most of all, Enright's tender, lyrical, transcendent prose.
Do yourself a favor- read, re-read or listen to this one right away."Used-to doesn't mean anything any more, Randy.
The used-to-world is all cut away from us now; floating away in the distance like a balloon or a bubble.
The Melendy children, fifteen year old Mona, fourteen year old Rush, twelve year old Miranda (Randy), and seven and three quarters year old Oliver, live with their father, their housekeeper Cuffy, and their gardner/handyman Willy Sloper, in The Four Story Mistake, an old house in the countryside near the villages of Braxton and Carthage, NY.
They end up making new friends, such as the Addison children, Mr. Jasper Titus, and especially Mark Herron, a boy about Rush's age, while collecting scrap metal.
Mark is under the care of his abusive adult cousin Oren Meeker, who has some rather unsavory associates.
I am still slightly annoyed with the library for taking their own sweet time in getting this book to me. But it was so worth the wait! More summer adventures, more of the fabulous Melendys, and yes, I admit it: I teared up a bit when Oliver declared the best part of his birthday was Mark becoming part of the family.Love, love, love these books. Hate that it took so long for me to find them, but so grateful that they're a part of my life down.
Another lovely book in the Melendy family quartet. Enright has a deft hand with characters and a gentle love for her story. Great stuff.
Although written 70 years ago, this story of the four Melendy siblings' summer adventures in the countryside captivated my girls.
Several elements were so old fashioned that I could only describe them by hearsay (telephone operators that connected and listened in on calls, horse and carriage rides, war rations), but the story of the siblings embarking on summer projects, befriending a boy with an abusive cousin, and figuring out the meaning of courage and friendship was timeless.
The girls loved this so much we are now going back to the beginning of the series and listening to the rest of the books.

Parts of this book were very powerful and/or very amusing, but the gender roles seem to be getting more strict now that the girls are getting older, and I find that a little wearing. It's extra wearing since I recognize that in our household, I tend to reinforce these gender stereotypes by doing most of the cooking and cleaning, not because it's my duty as a woman to cook and clean but just because people are hungry and things are messy and someone's got to do something about it. The result is the same, though, I fear.
The third book in the "Melendy Family" series by Elizabeth Enright. It's one of my favorites from that series, and again is an excellent children's book. I highly recommend it, but suggest you read the first two books first to get the idea of what is going on.
The perfect lazy summer read. I just discovered this series recently and can't wait to lay my hands on the other instalments. Cozy, warm, dappled with sunlight and splendid characters, this book was a good blend of realistic fiction and nostalgic enchantment.
the melendy children - mona, rush, randy, and oliver - are perhaps my favorite figures in children's literature. these wonderful books from the 1940s have been recently re-released.
The kids are very, very brave and do their part collecting scrap metal and every one of them has a special talent or interest and their house is oh so perfect and I kind of want the Addams family to move in next to them and torture them.
This is the kind of book I could see being the thing people remember reading as a kid that made them hate reading childrens' literature.
Like it's not even the lack of technology or carriages thing dating it.
If you've got a nostalgia thing for this one going on, I won't judge (much) but for me it came off as a dull book about very privileged, impossibly perfect children.
A nice summer read.
Dad is off on a secret mission to wartime Washington--must be something to do with propaganda, as he's a writer--leaving the kids with Cuffy and the hired man.
Dad only appears every few weeks, and at one point even Cuffy is got out of the way for a fortnight to let the kids have Liberty Hall.We have the obligatory orphan story of series of this type, hair-breadth scapes and a fire thrown in for éclat, but there are also picnics, a money-raising show and sale, and exploring fields and wood.A pleasant bedtime read.
I don't think he was quite that funny in the previous books.- there's a social worker coming to check out the family, and she's trying to discuss stuff with Mr Melendy but all the kids keep coming and interrupting and it is the best thing ever"Largo Maestoso was her favourite tempo...
You had time, between chords, to think about what you were going to do next."Ms Enright totally gets sibling dynamics - "Randy grabbed her brother's ankle and yanked him in again.
Naturally she ducked Rush.
Naturally she ducked Rush.
Naturally Rush - and so on and so on.
The Melendy children continue to have delightful adventures in and around their home in the country, and one of those adventures eventually results in a new addition to the family.I’m still enjoying these books very much. I noticed in this one a few comments indicative of the period in which they were written — somewhat stereotypical remarks about Gypsies and Indians. Nothing as pejorative as what is found in, say, Little House on the Prairie, but enough that modern readers might want to be aware of it.
The Melendy family traipse through life with nary a care. The story is sweet- too sweet. Everything is so wonderful and fantastic. Any "problems" the children encounter are mere set-ups to reveal their imperfectly perfect characters. I felt there was more racism and sexism in this book than the previous one, which decreased my enjoyment of the story. There's a dark episode, but it is brushed over so as not to ruin the sweetness of the story ((view spoiler)[a man dies in a fire (hide spoiler)]).
Loved this series, but especially loved this one. Every kid should have such summers! The kids were never bored and rarely inside and always learning. I would have adored these books when I was a kid had I known about them back then. Wish I had discovered these books when my kids were small enough to have read them to them.
Of all the Melendy books, this one would take the most explaining to modern kids (because the war comes through much more), but I still loved it. Elizabeth Enright has a knack for including details that ring true and for structuring plots that kids will enjoy.
A bit of unexpected drama but otherwise just a nice Melendy family story.
My favorite so far of the Melendy books.
I want to be a Melendy too, Mark.
Perfectly delightful, with only a little casual racism.
Ienjoyed this one. It's another happy families, happy kids book.
