https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/5711852-the-reluctant-heiress
I think I have read too many of her books in too short of time.
Heck, I think I could write one of these books.
It doesn't matter that her parents hate her of she has no money, her beauty shines through the mess her life is in.
Rich, tall, dashingly attractive man comes on the scene.
Has all the money he could ever ask for but is looking for love in all the wrong places.
Yadda, yadda, yadda, two hundred pages later, come conflicts and then the last page of the blasted book: Young girl and dashing man declare their feelings and ride off into the sunset.
When I flipped through the book at the library the cover told me this was the story of beautiful dark eyed princess who has shrugged off her royal duties and taken up the life of theatre and how she meets and falls in love with a handsome and rich English businessman.
Vienna isn't just the setting of the story, it seems to be a living breathing character and perhaps the most important of them all.
The one other thing that seems to be as important a factor as the city and it's royalty in this book is music and the opera.
actually, I skipped a lot of the book.
I just couldn't get into it.
And there was so much in this book that didn't seem to fit quite right or that just felt like filler.
She couldn't use "abusive" and "healthy"?
I don't like reading books where I don't know what's going on because the author has decided to constantly throw in my face the fact that their vocabulary is bigger and better than mine...
we'll see if it gets any better as we move forward...
She must have a better thesaurus than I do...
This is EXACTLY the kind of book I would want to write. It's a ridiculous confection, but not a wispy meringue or an overdone croquembouche. It's like...a Sachertorte! Layer upon layer of substantial deliciousness that is almost but not quite too much, and best enjoyed with a strong cup of coffee. (Or like I did, in a hot tub...can you eat Sachertorte in a hot tub? I volunteer to find out.)
Similar to A Song for Summer and A Company of Swans the characters' love of art and nature fairly leap off the pages and it's hard to resist their charms and not wish you lived in a time and place where ancient royalty glided about crumbling castles and Mozart was god.
I am sure of it, after reading her books and about her life.
He understood human nature and she used her knowledge perfectly creating all characters.The Unconscious, lately discovered by Professor Freud and used by others to store their joys, fears and frustrations, was for Nerine a gigantic subterranean wardrobe.She had also a wit, this kind I love the most.But Farne was silent and forbidding, in his most ‘Mr Rochester’ mood.I have written what I want to tell about Ibbotson stories in my reviews of The Morning Gift and A Company of Swans.If you have read at least one of them, you know what I mean.
Another joyous romp through Eva Ibbotson's world of love in the face of early 20th century post-war Europe, great art, and truly disarming heroines.
Tessa (who just happens to be an Italian princess) has dedicated herself as a maid of all work in the service of opera.
Guy (tycoon/former foster child & chaos creater) buys up her old palace in honor of his fiance.
Said fiance turns out to be in love with herself.
Which is actually a good thing because you know sooner or later Tessa & Guy are going to find one another.
I feel like I am in a Bad Book Rut, I need a good book asap to restore my faith in writers everywhere!!Author Eva Ibbostson is 1-1.
Her book "A countess below stairs" was wonderful, I thouroughly enjoyed reading it.
This book, "The Reluctant Heiress' was a flop.It took me about 200 pages of reading this one (or scanning it) to become half-way interested.
I know she was trying to write fitting to the time period, but I just really didn't like it.
I hate to bash this one so much, I will try another book by this author.
I'm hoping it was just on bad seed out of many good ones?!?!?!?!?
I can see how it draws comparison to Austen and Heyer, because there is something similar in the pacing, the level of detail about the society surrounding the leads, the gentle judgments of the foibles of many characters, and the innocent veneer softening what was surely the author's broader knowledge of how much suffering was taking place in various strata of society.But even given all of these potential categorizations as fairy tale or romance (neither of which is inherently belittling in my mind), I assert that Ibbotson requires a designation all her own.
If I had read this book before I read A Countess Below Stairs it would have been one of my favorite books.
I like the sacrifice of everything toward the greater good of music, and that Beethoven's button business-genius.However, this is strikingly similar to A Countess Below Stairs and that book has a slightly more appealing hero, bigger climax moment with that great line that goes something like "the ball might be for (such and such), but it was about..." well, you get the idea.
If you want two good books to read, start with The Reluctant Heiress, if you just want one book, read The Countess Below Stairs
But Guy is smitten with a snobbish fiancee and buys Tessa's castle to impress her, while Tessa is keen to shed her heritage by working at a madcap opera company.
The hero is a trifle thinly characterized, but Tessa is warm and charming in her single-minded devotion to music and freedom, and Ibbotson provides her usual sparkling supporting cast: Guy's fiancee who thinks of life in terms of couture clothes; a conductor writing the world's worst atonal opera about cannibalism; three ballet dancers called "The Heidis," and a handsome prince dumber than a plank.
Better yet, Ibbotson really knows her opera.
But anyway, I couldn't renew this book from the library, so I set out to read it in three hours.
The only person I had difficulty liking was Tessa - I liked her, of course, but I didn't love her.
I think she would have been more loveable if it had been in first person.
I felt like David deserved Tessa more than Guy did though, and that Guy deserved someone new entirely.
Besides Tessa and Guy's shared love of music, they seemed like they just couldn't get along - not in a Lizzie/Darcy way, but in a obviously-these-two-people-aren't-meant-for-each-other way.
The story was about music and opera, but for those readers (e.g. me) who know very little about those subjects, some more explanation woven into the narrative would have been nice.I liked the main couple (Guy and Tessa) in this book, but the minor characters stole the show.
With all of Eva Ibbotson's books I feel like the minor characters really do have their own lives and problems and existences outside of the main character's story, but in Magic Flutes the supporting cast outshone Guy and Tessa by far.
Oh no, fooled by the great re-naming bug. I loved this book when I read it years ago under its original title of Magic Flutes. The new packaging is nice. However, all the time I was waiting for this to come out I thought I was waiting for a NEW story.
Eva Ibbotson's writing really draws you in, making it difficult to put the book down.I really enjoyed Tessa's character.
I thought she was a very interesting and intriguing character, what with the fact that she is royalty, and yet all she wants to do is to be an unpaid assistant in a little theater that is constantly on the brink of ruin.
All of this makes Tessa a very likable character.I really enjoyed this book, and would give it a nine out of ten.
I found all the historical parts very interesting, and I liked that Eva Ibbotson used a lot of more advanced vocabulary, so I learned quite a few words while reading.
Having read three books by Eva Ibbotson in a row, it had become quite clear to me that the woman was a master when it came to writing historical romance.
Tessa, Princess of Pfaffenstein, happily gave up her title so that she could pursue her love of the arts, and gets herself a job working for a Viennese opera company.
Guy Farne, the self-made millionaire, comes to buy castle Pfaffenstein, making it possible for Tessa to continue pursuing her work with the opera.
Fun fact: one of the castles with an important role in the plot is supposed to be Neuschwanstein Castle, which was also the inspiration for Disney's Sleeping Beauty castle.
How fitting for a princess novel.
Technically not a princess novel, but if you have aristocrats and pretty dresses, it counts in my book.Eva Ibbotson's YA thing (as opposed to her MG books) seems to be comforting Cinderella fluff set in different historical European settings.
Also, pretty dresses.This particular one is "Cinderella working backstage for a 1920s Viennese opera company."
First alluring the reader in with a cover of a sweet looking young woman, the book tells the tale of two people: a princess in the glory of a fading court, and a waif found upon the docks who turned himself into a millionaire.
A romance, a historical adventure, and almost fairy-tale, "The Reluctant Heiress" sweeps a reader into the 1930s and the adventures of music, theater, and 'republicanism'.
With good writing and, if not very deep, at least interesting plot, it is a story of a lot of fluff, not much use, an abrupt ending, and the ability to capture a reader into a faded world and leave them with a smile
I was suffering from a terrible book hangover - four DNF and one crime book I managed to read but without enjoyment. In these cases the only thing to do is to reread something pure and lovely and Eva Ibbotson always fits the bill. Her romances are all that a sweet coming of age should be, only not sickly or saccharine, but tinged with a caustic humour, a wonderful sense of place and time, rich descriptions, real and relatable heroines, tragi-comic plots, dark plots and flawed, honourable and deeply sexy heroes.
Formulaic, in the regular Eva Ibbotson way, but, I’m relieved to discover, thankfully not altogether bad.The love interest was a bit aggressive-alpha-male, and as a couple they had some pretty frustrating and unnecessary miscommunication issues, but it was alright, overall, and I’m just thankful that my childhood love for Eva Ibbotson remains (for now) at least semi-intact.
Una novela feelgood con personajes cargados de humor. Tal vez demasiado cliché la prometida de Guy, pero la lectura es amena y te deja con buenas sensaciones.
Anyhow, I thought to persevere and finish the book because I truly liked the characters and the plot and wanted to see what becomes of Tessa and Guy. I did enjoy myself despite having to plow through all those words and practiced speed reading as I did so.
However, like the other male protagonist in Ibbotson's other books, he is always so distracted by the other woman in the story that he becomes oblivious of the female heroine's charms.
Although a princess, she believes in the equality of all people and works, unpaid, for an opera company, in a wholehearted effort to support this branch of the arts she loves.
The man ends up purchasing the castle and hiring the opera company all in an effort to win back the girl he lost 10 years ago and support her in the style of life to which she dreams of being accustomed.
But in the end, their true love triumphs.As always, Ibbotson includes a cast of engaging and eccentric side characters.
Another of Ibbotson's traits that I like is her passion for music that she passes on to her characters.
It sounded like the main characters of A Countess Below Stairs changed their names and got dropped into the setting of The Star of Kazan only fifteen years later.
Anna Tessa is a Russian Countess Austrian Princess working at a(n) English Manor Viennese opera company when she meets  Rupert Guy, a(n)  Earl self-made millionaire engaged to a vain heiress named  Muriel Nerine.
They fall in love, having a discussion about Anna's Tessa's hair somewhere in the middle, some twist of fate allowing them to be together in the end.This book was a lot better than just that.
The main characters, Tessa and Guy, are both born under the sign of Gemini, which supposedly strengthens their actual connection.
The two characters are not just tied together by a celestial connection but also by their love of the arts and Tessa’s home.
As the two characters are brought together throughout the course of the story, their relationship begins to develop beyond friendship.
Tessa and Guy are wonderful main characters!
Both characters are humble, hard working, and love Opera.
(Though they are a little bit too perfect...) There are also a bunch of well-developed side characters, especially from Tessa’s Opera House.
It's almost as if Ibbotson ended it and then decided that she wasn't quite finished with the characters and chose to change a couple of lines and then continue on for another couple hundred pages.
In Vienna, he meets the girl of his dreams, but is rejected out of hand because he is a poor nobody despite his brillance.
Guy decides to better himself and proceeds over the next few years to become a millionaire.
Guy decides to throw a house party at the castle and hires Tessa's opera company to perform.
Guy worked hard to please Martha and turned his energy to his studies.
He decides to buy Pfaffenstein castle to woo back his lady love who rejected him years ago when he was poor.
Tessa was born and bred the Princess of Pfaffenstein but is now a republican and working backstage at a Vienna opera company for free because she loves music so much.
She encounters Guy backstage when he comes to hire the opera company for his engagement house party.
Will Guy actually marry the spoiled beauty he believes he loves?
A romantic, wistful story that pulls at the heartstrings.I absolutely loved how Eva Ibbotson weaved music into her writing through the presence of the opera.
You can really see Tessa’s passion throughout the story.I also really liked that Eva Ibboston included Nerine’s perspective in the story.
For some reason, I ended up liking Nerine’s character more because of this tactic; I was able to understand her grievances.
However, I wish that Ibbotson had given us more of a glimpse into Tessa and Guy’s relationship at the end of the story when they FINALLY get together.
How she can make an ordinary looking, hard-working, self-sacrificing and kind-hearted girl look absolutely irresistible!
And usefulness, generous hard work and small acts of service appear like the most beautiful things you've ever come across.
Even better is that these are precisely the qualities that make the young heroine irresistible for the Rochester-like hero; far from appearing bland or 'too good', her character is full to the brim and overflowing, he is captivated.
A far cry from the shallow infatuation of Twilight, Ibbotson offers a similarly heart-engulfing romance founded on something truly beautiful.
A HUGE part of the book focuses on different opera’s, unless you know and love the opera this can be extremely boring to read about.
There were so many different references to opera, art and even Freud that it all felt cluttered and totally distracting from the story.
I can’t imagine teenagers being interested in this story, since it seems it was written especially for people who love the opera and not really the general public.
Everything just ended up a bit too nicely, any misunderstandings were cleared up too quickly, and although I started out really liking Guy, I ended up bored with him about halfway through.
