https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1736739.Olive_Kitteridge
for what i thought would take no more than two days to get through; it took about a week.
ooh, i feel like old ladies will see this and hate me ...
this book was borrring and lackluster; a snoozefest.there was such an initial appeal to these stories; set in coastal maine (how i looove it there) and an irrational, old miser of a lady to connect them all.
how can anyone under the age of 50 read this w/o feeling dejected of their future??
then again, i'd like to think that by a ripe, old, stinky age, i'd have lived a meaningful and sensational life, unlike olive kitteridge.
I finished this book a couple of weeks ago and I’ve struggled since to find the reasons why Elizabeth Strout’s Olive Kitteridge struck me so deeply.
To make matters worse here, the first chapter in Olive Kitteridge introduces us to the title character and she’s just not a very nice person, at least where her treatment of her husband is concerned.
She introduces us to a title character who appears to be considerably less than worthy as the subject of an entire novel.
, this book altered my view of humanity and, for that, I feel both oddly indebted (she is make-believe, after all) to Olive Kitteridge and deeply grateful for the work of Elizabeth Strout.
Posted at Shelf InflictedThis is a collection of stories about a group of ordinary people living in a small town in Maine, their joys, sorrows, tragedies and grief, all centered around the main character, Olive Kitteridge.
Yet, I was so absorbed by the lives of these people and had a difficult time putting the book down.The characters were very well developed, the town vividly described, and the emotions raw.
The characters are realistically drawn with such an emotional depth that I found I could easily identify with them and even see similarities to people I know.
I just want to read and write and read and write and read and write, and almost every review I've ever written here on Goodreads, from the completely anonymous to the refreshingly well-received, has made me want to click my shiny red heels with joy.And I don't need to close my eyes and intonate there's no place like home, there's no place like home, because I could be anywhere in this world, and, as long as I have a book or a pen in my hand, I am home.There are few living writers today that take me home in the way that Elizabeth Strout does, or in the way that Olive Kitteridge did.
However, I felt that the writing was ok, the narration was interesting, but I never even came close to feeling some sympathy or connection to Olive like I did for Updike's Rabbit Angstrom or, say, Bellow's Dean Corde.
I am not sure I would come back to this one.I have now read all the Pulitzers from 2011 and 4 from the previous decade and I'd have to say that this one, The Known World by Edward P Jones and All The Light We Cannot See by Anthony Doerr were all disappointing...I wonder what the list will look like for 2017.
aren't small towns supposed to be all about people knowing each other and supporting each other and all that?
i understand being alone in miami or new york or los angeles, but how can you be so lonely in crosby, maine?i guess american writers and filmmakers have worked very hard at showing us that you can be plenty lonely in small town america, but somehow this is sinking in now for the first time, thanks to Olive Kitteridge.
so we come to terms with olive kitteridge.
Anche il mare sembra sempre grigio e agitato, mai una volta che mettesse la voglia di fare il bagno!”E allora Strout ha aperto il barattolo della melassa e l’ha rovesciato intero nell’ultimo racconto: con il risultato di lasciarmi a bocca amara per eccesso di zucchero.E così non posso fare a meno di chiedermi se il mondo non sarebbe un posto migliore senza gente come Olive Kitteridge che, per una manciata di momenti di comprensione e calore e viva comunicazione, ha sparso e distribuito tonnellate di acidità e sgradevolezza.E mi chiedo anche quale sia la libidine di riconoscere qualcuno degli abitanti di Crosby, Maine, nel proprio dirimpettaio o nel macellaio, come se con i vicini non bastasse averci a che fare quotidianamente già qui, in Rome, Italy.PSMi piace l’entusiasmo di Baricco per questo libro, gli genera belle parole, tipo queste: Quasi tutti i personaggi fotografati sono anziani, o sull’orlo della pensione, o giù di lì.
I mean, how does she create a book out of a collage of stories, linked by one exceptionally prickly, ornery yet honest character, through writing that is at once complex and invitingly simple?
Through the everyday lives of these people, Strout delves deep into the heart.
I really felt I knew these people.I've heard complaints that this book is depressing.
God. For some reason after I finished reading this book I thought about some long-time family friends.
They had two kids, one of which has Down syndrome (and who still lives with them part time today at the age of 38).
This novel in episodes, all revolving around the ever enigmatic Olive, does something extraordinary: each tale is so rich with description, so tangible (I believe I breathed in the saltiness of the Maine coast, practically) that they ...transcend.
Somehow, the only other writer that's able to manifest this type of impact on the reader is Jhumpa Lahiri (it is little coincidence that her beauty of a novel, "Interpreter of Maladies" like "Olive Kitteridge" also won the Pulitzer).
The literature of today is about strong, emotionally-charged episodes, readings as comforting as donuts (a motif in the novel) to the reader.
Olive Kitteridge is a Pulitzer-Prize-winning collection of stories that constitute a novel.
They are not as closely woven together as the multi-generational tales in works by Louise Erdrich, another writer who likes to collect small parts into a larger whole, but Strout has put together a compelling portrait of a small town.
Olive Kitteridge is the organizational core connecting the thirteen stories.
Elizabeth Strout - from her fans FB siteLoneliness was the predominant theme in the town of Crosby, Maine, loneliness or the fear of it.
Most of the stories touch on relationships sagging, empty or gone, getting through emotional hard times and wondering if it is all worth the effort.
1/4th of the book is over, and I have encountered: an elderly man pining over a young woman; a bitter and jealous elderly wife (Olive Kitteridge herself); their miserable son getting married and finally moving out of his parents' house at the ripe age of 38; a single 50-year old woman - a piano player, an alcoholic and a lover of a married man.
And this tiny town, where the story is set, has the highest number of suicidal/depressed people I've encountered in literature.
This novel made me think about my life, particularly my relationship with my Olive-like mother.In the first chapter, simply labeled "Pharmacy," Strout opens us to the life of Henry Kitteridge, a mild-mannered man who likes people, doesn't like to hear from cursing and never misses church or a civic activity.
Strout understands that there are people like Henry Kitteridge who need to be helpful, building bridges and looking on the bright side but there are also people like Olive Kitteridge who'd rather be sick with misery at times but see things as they really are.
Olive Kitteridge is the result of a finely threaded gossamer of stories told by a cacophony of voices that bring Ollie, as her benevolent husband Henry calls her, to life through polyhedral perspectives of her complex personality, the interactions she has with other characters and the expectations they project on her.
And Olive, that familiar character that equally infuriates and charms the reader, personifies the grandiosity and desolation of daily existence and winks mischievously to the histrionic self that is hidden in each of us.Life is a strange, convoluted business and staying afloat, regardless of the inexorable passage of time that will escort all of us to the same ominous culmination, is a small act of bravery.
More than one of these 'minor' characters are so well-drawn and intriguing that I wouldn't have minded knowing more about them.Not all the stories are about Olive, though she 'appears' in all of them, if only peripherally.
In three of the stories (and they might be my favorites, though it's hard to pick a favorite) other women (one 'older,' the others young) are the main characters, and Olive is just a thought in their heads.
WOW!How appropriate that Olive should be large: she is larger than life, human but more so.
She's angrier, more unrepentant, and far less tolerant, of herself as much as of others, but at the same time she's also more feeling, more compassionate, more sensitive than the average member of the human race.
The magical thing is that you feel and see too, you develop a kind of preternatural sensitivity.
To read it makes you more human too.Is it sad when Olive has to visit a much depleted Henry in a nursing home?
And life is worthwhile when there are books like this to read.
I don’t know, maybe all books are about that in some ways, and I'd rather read Wuthering Heights if I'm going for desire.
And then it ends (I guess spoiler alert, but it’s not really like there is a plot to this book, so I don’t think it really spoils anything) with a sort of huu-uuh in a story about some people in their seventies thinking about having sex with each other and how they were assholes to their kids.
This business about the trappings of time was probably not literally in the book BUT IT COULD HAVE BEEN.When she would come back to the hunger thing, though, I liked that.
For there is no way a book wins this honorable prize without doing something that has not been done before, or without taking something that has been done before and doing it better.
With this novel, it is the way in which short stories are interwoven using one subject: the idiosyncratic, Olive Kitteridge.
With each story, you are placed within a character's mind, you sense, for instance, his or her heartbreak and lost love:
It is the way in which the story moves.
Not this one, because Strout weaves in and out of time deftly, transitioning through characters' lives with ease, giving the story grace.
Yet the book is a mousse of a confection, its execution so light, so assured.
I can only remember this being done so well one other time in my broad reading experience, that was in Cynthia Ozick’s The Puttermesser Papers.
Strout has this wonderful way of sliding obliquely into her subject matter, a technique which merits closer study.
Another surprising aspect of the book is what she chooses not to pursue.
(Hemingway wrote fascinatingly about the effects of deliberate omission in his fiction; see his Selected Letters: 1917-1961.) Please read Olive Kitteridge.
Olive KitteridgeElizabeth Strout MY RATING ⭐⭐⭐⭐⭐PUBLISHER Random HousePUBLISHED March 25, 2008Olive Kitteridge is emotionally powerful, lyrical and hard to forget. SUMMARYOlive, a retired school teacher in the coastal town of Crosby, Maine is the subject of a set of interlinked short stories. She is at times curmudgeonly, cold or abrupt and at other times vulnerable, hurting or just plain tired. She is human, and struggling to understanding herself and all the changes and challenges that life th
Olive KitteridgeElizabeth Strout MY RATING 	⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️PUBLISHER	Random HousePUBLISHED	March 25, 2008Olive Kitteridge is emotionally powerful, lyrical and hard to forget.
“You couldn’t make yourself stop feeling a certain way, no matter what the other person did.
Eventually the feeling went away because because others came along.” 				Elizabeth Strout, Olive KitteridgeREVIEWOlive Kitteridge is quite a character.
Keep reading!
Olive Kitteridge make us realize people are complicated, and there is so more to each of us, than what we can see on the surface.
Elizabeth Strout’s writing in this novel-in-stories format is lyrical.
A great read.
Strout was awarded the Pulitzer Prize for Olive Kitteridge in 2009.
This is the type of writing that makes my toes curl up.
It shows that no matter where you live, people have the same issues, of loneliness, ageing, sickness, relationships and family troubles and that it’s not confined to big cities.
The fact of the matter is that life and its complications are universal.
I loved how Olive at the age of 74 could still learn lessons.
Big lessons that change her outlook on life and makes her appreciate being alive.
It’s often sad and had a melancholy feel throughout most of the book, making it a hard read at times.
I'll begin with my finale, so those who don't want to take the time to read several paragraphs will get the gist of it upfront: Elizabeth Strout strikes me as being an Alice Munro cover band.
Save for the fact that I'm baffled by its Pulitzer status (and the other fact that I wasted countless minutes actually reading the thing), I'd say that I couldn't be bothered to care about Olive Kitteridge one way or another.So I'm having a hard time mustering emotion enough to make you care about the book one way or other.
I know that I feel like Elizabeth Strout is an Alice Munro cover band.
I think the biggest compliment I can pay is that though its characters are fictional, they felt absolutely real to me.
As another character memorably puts it: "Olive had a way about her that was absolutely without apology." By contrast, her husband Henry is kind and friendly, but their relationship works, despite the hiccups that can occur in any marriage.
And in the astonishing Incoming Tide, a former student of Olive's contemplates ending his unhappy life, when she shows up to comfort him in her own unique way.
I think every story broke my heart in a different way.
Just like real life then.
Their life in a small town in Maine is complex, sad, and seemingly incomplete.
Their son spends his life hoping for an apology from at least one of his parents.
Olive’s life has not turned out the way she had hoped, and it would seem that this is the one thing that almost everyone from Crosby, Maine has in common.
Through Strout’s beautifully written intermingled stories she explores the characters of Crosby, Maine, exposing their emotions with depth and sharing every moment of sadness, loneliness, anger and disappointment as if they were their shadow.
The first story was interesting and I felt I had gotten to know Henry, but then it was over and the second story seemed to have little to do with the first.
We don’t want to recognize her, or relate to her, or think she mirrors us in any way, but we do.
"...after all, life was a gift--that one of those things about getting older was knowing that so many moments weren't just moments, they were gifts.
4.5 StarsI fell in love with Elizabeth Strout's writing last year when I read My Name is Lucy Barton.
In the thirteen stories that make up Olive Kitteridge, Strout showed me once again her ability to connect all of us to each other.
Even by the end of book, the grouchy, Olive Kitteridge had shown a side of herself all of us can relate to.
The only reason I did not give this book the full five stars was that I felt some of the stories did not hold my complete attention.
Still, it was a very compelling and thought provoking read.
این داستانها در شهر ساحلی کوچکی در ایالت مًین در امریکا میگذرند، و حلقه ی اتصال آنها شخصیت معلم بازنشسته ای، به نام: آلیو کیتریج است.
آن موقع نمیدانستم این کتاب چه فرمی پیدا میکند، ولی پس از آنکه صحنه های بیشتری را نوشتم، احساس کردم آلیو چنان حضور نیرومندی دارد که بهتر است داستان او اساساً اپیزودی باشد.
آلیو کیتریج: معلم ریاضی بازنشسته بدخلقی ست، که با داروساز آرامی به نام: هنری ازدواج کرده؛ شخصیتی که از همسرش محبوبتر است و خوانشگر تا پایان کتاب با او بیشتر از همه شخصیتها آشنا میشود.
This book is chalk full of insight, but if you've never lived it you probably won't see it.
In one story Basket Of Trips, even as the husband is dying, the couple pulls from the closet a basket of travel brochures and plans where they will travel next, knowing full well this will never come about.
Yes, these stories are about people trying to figure out ways to get through the next day, week, or year, and they're realizing the way that their choices earlier in life have come back to make a lasting effect on ( or in a few cases haunt) them.
But there I was, in-between reads, waiting for all the books I'd requested to arrive at the library (which they nearly all did in a single day, three days later) and here was Olive Kitteridge, sitting on a rotating rack of paperbacks that you can borrow on the honor system.
The book is comprised of thirteen vignettes that are like tilts of a kaleidoscope: each offering a different way of looking at life in a place that seems to change very little from a distance, but when you look more closely, emotional fortunes are made and lost with the changing tides.
And while she is still a wonderful writer, she seems to have reduced herself (prematurely, I would hope) to the pre retirment plan of Maeve Binchy; the incredibly unpleasant world of the multiple narrative novel.Her characters are sketched very well and her use of language pulls you in, but I really hate these snippets that aren't short stories, aren't novels - so what are they?
It's very hard to feel attached to a book like this, and I would've minded less if it had been a book of short stories.I gave it three stars because it is still very readable and maybe if you know going in what the deal is it is less bothersome.
It was great to read about characters who were not going through any rites of passage or growth.Hand in hand with this, however, came a sort of bleak realism that made it sometimes difficult to read the stories.
It was the sort of realism that does not promise happy endings, and acts as a reminder that reality is often far removed from the hope and dignity which is lent to characters in stories.I was not sure at first whether I liked or disliked this book, and to some extent I still am not sure about this, but I am glad I have read it.3.5*
