https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/291356.The_Sapphire_Rose
That's one of the things that makes me excited to start with The Tamuli next.There was, of course, sadness in the book and many conflicts, but Eddings managed to rise above it all and he carried us through to the end of the book.Flute and Talen have to be my favourite characters, but there are so many awesome people to choose from.
All of them have their moment to shine, and I think that's one of the things that makes Eddings' writing so compelling.
(view spoiler)[ I loved the fact that Dolmant ended up becoming the Archprelate despite Annias' best efforts to secure that title for himself.
I've read this book many times, so many, in fact, that the pages are falling out.
What I adore is Eddings' complete, unassailable, and believable world that he creates.
But, it's done with a grating kind of sarcasm that I find refreshing.However, that sarcasm is why this and others of Eddings' books has four instead of five stars.
That sarcasm flows seamlessly through prose and dialogue, many times blurring the distinctive characters.
One could argue that since the characters are largely in the same profession (Church Knights), they may all have a similar sense of humor.
Martel's going to lead an army up the aqueduct that links to the old crypt tunnels!" ecksdeeAnyway, apparently Martel's pet shogg (did I miss that getting killed, or did it just vanish?) ate the bit of his brain that knew all the interesting tricks of siege warfare and gave him an irrational aversion to trebuchets.
(mute the sound on that one.) On that note, a tip: if you have a fair amount of wood, it's dry, you have a good supply of flour from many captured mills and the enemy are being all oblivious to the fact that their cellars are leaky in a leaking-dudes-in-chainmail kind of way, blow them the hell up.There was also the most bemusing attempt to bring a human interest/sympathy to a siege, wherein a local soldier watches a civilian dragged into an alleyway by a mercenary.
The Sapphire Rose is the third part in the Elenium and sees our heroes moving on from the events in The Ruby Knight as they endeavour to conquer and defeat the Elder God Azash, minions and various people it is ruling!:DAs you expect from the previous books the characters are all three-dimensional and fallible at the same time they are clearly, the ones on the good side at least, heroic with some of the rivals on the other side at least showing that they at some point have potential for good but at the same time this does not stop our characters from doing what needs to be done, even with body parts flying about, which does add a kind of literal visceral feel to the proceedings especially in the later part of the novel!
It was excelent until the last few chapters. When Kurik died, it was a heart-wrenching moment for me. (I spent the next 20 minutes crying and saying "Why, why, why did Kurik half to die?" Kurik was my favorite.)
A nice endings, with solid character development and plot. I love the political intrigues of the Hierocracy.
Fat isn’t entirely an evil thing like deformity is, in these books – Platime is fat but approaches genius-ness on the council, Patriarch Emban is very clever, and both of them are good – but it’s still always mentioned.
And he uses that sometimes – to defuse tension, for instance – but I’m still not entirely comfortable with it.TEHANI:That’s interesting though, because both Platime and Emban are important, good characters – not presented as useless or bad people, and so I guess I read that as subverting the trope?
As in every book of Eddings I have read so far, the characters each have their own, distinct personality that distinguishes them from the others, but they are almost all likable in a way.
The descriptions of people and places were sometimes a little too long and dry, causing me to skim over them rather than read them attentively, which disrupted the flow of the story a little.One thing I noticed about this series compared to the Belgariad and the Malloreon that I didn't like as much was the violence.
There were some things that bothered me or that I didn't like as much, but that generally didn't disrupt my enjoyment of the story.
Even as popcorn fantasy there are just so many problems with this book.
First off, you could have skipped book 2 entirely and not missed anything.
The quest is just dragged on for entirely too much time, to where it becomes obvious that it's just there for the point of extending the story.
And the most glaring problem is that the main character has a literal super weapon, with which he could defeat all of the bad guys easily, yet does not use it for reasons that don't hold up under logical scrutiny.
It's the classic problem with having a character that's too powerful.
An okay read, but the 'romance' seemed a bit forced and undeveloped. While we do have gods jumping in to save things a few times there is a satisfying amount of human battles and efforts. As always, I really enjoy Eddings' humor the most and he keeps me chuckling rather regularly here. I think I'll take a break from him before the Tamuli though, else I might get utterly sick of his style.
I'm really disappointed with this last book. I still don't care for the characters that much. Especially not when you compare them to those in the Belgariad. There was entirely too much fighting. Frankly, this book could have been edited down to half it's size and been fine.
Cliched, but it's precisely what made it so accessible to someone like me, who's just dipping her toes in the fantasy genre; as an introductory series, I enjoyed it all in all.
Starý dobrý Sparhawk je skutočne klasickým čítaním. Elénium je oddychovka, ktorá ma zatiaľ nikdy nesklamala.
He tackles the subject of loss.SAPPHIRE ROSE carries over all the best qualities of the first and second books of Eddings' Elenium, and of his Garion novels.
When the heroes of SAPPHIRE ROSE suffer a loss, Eddings does not shy away from it.
Characters die in a powerful way only to come back to life later—because publishers wanted to stir up drama to sell a few extra comics or hardcovers, or, in the case of characters returning, because the publisher twisted the author's arm to revive one or more characters to galvanize fans to buy the next issue or book to see how so-and-so rises from the dead.I won't go so far as to say I shun such stories immediately.
The Sapphire Rose is a fine conclusion to the tale of Sparkhawk's epic quest to save his queen, and the world.The problematic elements of this fantasy remain (Eurocentrism, namely), but they don't jump out at you immediately, such is the entertainment provided by this book (and series).I remember a particular character's death hitting me very hard when I first read this book.
If Shakespeare could do it, so can I, damn it!) present in the previous books were also used to full effect here, providing so much snarky entertainment that even the weaker plot points didn't irritate me.And this series is full of weak plot points, if I'm brutally honest.
Then someone decides to relegate main soloist Ortzel to the chorus because he thinks magic, here represented by the synthesizer, should be banned and Dolmant gets promoted to head chorister instead.
Then there's that weird bit where they visit Aphrael and her white animal island, which I imagine would be sort of gentle and new-agey.
Finally we reach the Temple of Azash, and frankly we're overdue for a half-hour long neo-progressive guitar based piece, all the while multi-limbed gods are ripping people's heads off, soldiers getting crushed to death in a labyrinth, fan favourites are getting laid off left, right and centre and Kalten steals two small cakes.
The characters were all so very glib; I couldn't relate to them and certainly wasn't fond of them.
Ugh. But the relationship is merely a footnote in the story.
Nobody is going to read this story for the relationship.
I normally love stories where there is a quest and characters on the road together dealing with adversity and adversaries along the way.
There is a longstanding enemity between Sparhawk and a banished brother knight called Martel, that ended in a pretty good fight.
The result was good, almost like the tip of the iceberg if the entire story could have been about that.
And once that is all sorted out, Sparhawk has to face the God Azash and use the Belliom to destroy him, hoping that the gem doesn't destroy the world at the same time.After feeling that the second book was just a series of unconnected adventures set to pad it the middle of the story, I was so glad that this book quickly got on with the action and stayed true to finishing up all the loose ends.
I actually enjoyed all the political stuff in the middle and the finale at the end was suitably gory enough.
The book definitely brings the series to a satisfying conclusion, but the denouement runs a little long (though, to be fair, getting the denouement the right length is something that lots of writers have problems with).
Probably the bigger problem with the book's end is that, approaching the conclusion, it screams, "The writer got the publisher to agree to another trilogy, so he's going to lay some plot hooks for the next one!"This is aggravated by the fact that I'm reading the book's first printing, and right after th end of the story we get this little bombshell.Here ends The Sapphire Rose, thus concluding the tale of The Elenium -- but not the adventures of Sparhawk and his companions.
or lack-thereof;- be entirely satisfied with the endings of all Sparhawk's 'known' enemies, both human and divine;- learn of the goddess Aphrael's special place in the lives of both Sparhawk and Ehlana.And throughout it all, you'll be able to continue enjoying the banter among Sparhawk and his companions that Mr. Eddings is so renowned for in all his stories.Indeed, I feel that The Sapphire Rose is the best novel in the trilogy, and for that, I give it 4.25 out of 5 stars.
It carried on the best things about this series in a satisfying ending that both answered the key outstanding questions, and at the same time it set the table for another series.What were the best things?
While it would be a fair criticism to say that he didn't experience as much growth as a main character should, his stability was almost a basis for the plot, much as the setting is.
Yes, it addresses and speaks about the daily religious observances that may grow tedious for some, but in a setting where those being worshiped are also characters.
This entire series is pretty one dimensional, in a science fiction/fantasy sort of way.
There are castles, knights, some limited magic that the author never attempts to explain, and heavy religious overtones.
The few women you encounter are supposed to be strong characters...when it doesn't interfere with the male characters interests i.e. the queen Ehlana can convince the entire Church body, but isn't stong enough to comprehend minut changes...cause she's a woman.
I can't tell if the author is mysogianistic or just a bad writer.It's an okay book, but honestly, there are much better fantasty series out there.
The Sapphire Rose is the final book in the David Eddings fantasy trilogy The Elenium, and overall it provides a satisfactory conclusion.
Fans of traditional epic fantasy will likely enjoy this final book, especially if they liked the first two books in the series.I didn't like the dark, disturbing scenes in the series, nor did I care for the its treatment of the religion of the Elenes.
The Elenic religion is a thinly-veiled caricature of Catholicism, and I found it shallow and disingenuous.Overall, The Elenium is a decent fantasy series, but not one to which I will likely return.
První dva díly jsem zhltla jako malinu, proto pro mě byl děsný šok, když jsem narazila na začátek trojky.
Magie a cestování přes půl zeměkoule bylo zábavné, ale opravdovou korunu tomuto dobrodružství nasazují dialogy a především ty, kde si ze sebe přátelé rytíři dělají legraci.
No a pak rozhovory Sparhawka a Píšťalky.
Pokud se jen trochu zajímáte o fantasy, nejlépe tu hrdinskou, rytířskou, a o tzv.
klasiky žánru, pak si Elenium přečtěte.
Jen ten začátek trojky budete muset nějak přetrpět.Já se mezitím s chutí pustím do Tamulské trilogie, kde příběhy rytířů Církve pokračují.
As with the the rest of the trilogy, I liked it, it was entertaining enough. But I have to say this final book in the trilogy dragged a *lot* in places. The pace seemed to slow right down, maybe attempting to build up to what was ultimately a big overblown scene at the end. Happy enough to have read it and happy enough to have finished it. Not too pushed about reading the follow up trilogy, though I wouldn't rule it out.(Hmm ... Maybe 2.5 stars would be a better representation of how I felt about this book).
excellent series i came across while sifting through my collection and started reading it just because i had nothing better to read but i must say it is a very lovely series the series ender is very interestingall three books are very well written and very well composed the plot goes on a little slow for my taste but i loved them anywayi recommend it to anyone who loves a mixture of adventure thrilling plot and a little romance .it is indeed a very good series
Plot, characters and writing amazing, but its like everytime Edding writes a series he is bored by the end. Another rushed ending with an epilogue which not only wraps things up but does so with a bow on top. Quick ending to an epic battle (such a let down) with plenty of closure in the epilogue (i love closure). Not a 5* because the ending
This was fine for a re-read. A couple of genuinely fine moments, but less quality overall than The Belgariad.
Every different part of the world feels fully-realized, and the characters are unique and memorable.
It felt like a good conclusion while still allowing for more of the story to be written in the future.The problem I have with this book is the "romance" between Sparhawk and the queen.
If I were honest, I would say I would've enjoyed this book much more if the romance was never even a factor.The rest of it was enjoyable and I closed the book feeling good about the journey I took.
(A) A takto nejak to má vypadať. Zakončenie trilógie úplne parádne. Zo začiatku som mal strach, že to bude nudné politikárčenie. Po chvíli sa to ale rozbehne a je to len príjemná jazda až do konca v Zemochu. Sparhawk má poslednú úlohu. Zničiť Azascha a poraziť nájazdníka. Všetkého je tu dosť, akcie boja, mágie a záhad. Teším sa na Tamili.
