https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/30677.The_Ghost_in_the_Machine
Breakthroughs are obtained by breaking down the existing state of thought and working from older ideas in combination with new knowledge (and thus is hit upon the very reason I read old and outdated books like this one).In a later thread of his theoretical mixology, Koestler takes a closer look at the structure of hierarchical systems, in which each element is both a whole on its level and a part of the level above it-- a duality which he calls a holon and which term is probably this book's most enduring contribution.
At times, Koestler's brilliance dazzles, as when he describes his conception of "holons", Janus-faced part/holes ubiquitous in natural systems.
And overall, the book is filled with piercing insights by a thoughtful and perceptive author.
However, there's also a whole lot of crap in this book, just flat out nonsense, particularly as related to evolutionary theory.
My biggest disappointment with this book was with the rather trite and creepy advice Koestler gives us at the end to address his diagnosis of humanity's inherent "delusional" character.
Worth a read to see the historical genesis of a great word/concept (holon) and for some beautifully articulated scientific insights, but beware of copious factual quicksand.
Koestler, Arthur. THE GHOST IN THE MACHINE. (1967). ***. Koestler was born in Budapest in 1905 and spent his early career as a journalist. In the early 1930s he joined the Communist Party, but was soon disillusioned by the atrocities committed by Stalin. He resigned from the party and published a novel, “Darkness at Noon,” which decried the existence of a totalitarian ruling party. The novel rocketed him to fame and he went on to devote the rest of his career to writing. He had a major interest
Koestler was born in Budapest in 1905 and spent his early career as a journalist.
The novel rocketed him to fame and he went on to devote the rest of his career to writing.
He had a major interest in the various theories of psychology and behavior that were being developed at the time and wrote this book to refute the then popular concept of mind-body dualism.
In this treatise, Koestler also proposes the term “holon,” which better defines the role of the brain in human behavior.
Although this book had great influence in its day, the theories advanced have since been incorporated into mainstream psychological thinking.
A nonpareil example of interdisciplinary writing. The year in the think tank for Koestler issued in an amazing book. The challenges to straightforward Darwinian evolution put forth by a man of letters are more cogent than those put forward by many better-trained scientists (true, he was utilitizing and synthesizing information gained directly from scientists in that think tank experiment). A missed classic. If the science he puts forward here is repeatable, this is going to be one of those examples where genius got mistaken as quaintness.
Koestler examines the notion that the parts of the human brain-structure which account for reason and emotion are not fully coordinated. This kind of deficiency may explain the paranoia, violence, and insanity that are central parts of human history, according to Koestler's challenging analysis of the human predicament. Masterful . An excellent discussion of the pitfalls of Behaviorism and the many facets of biology, anthropology, and evolution.
I remember this book was very dense and academic (not scientifically so, but his writing style is pretty arch, if I remember correctly) but very interesting. It's either about neurobiology, psychology, or metaphysics, or all three. I recommend it, I think. And since I'm the only one so far to have written a review of it, you're just going to have to trust me.

Chances are that brain-function knowledge has improved since the 60s when Koestler wrote this.
But armed with what was known then, this book makes a strong scientific case for what Kurt Vonnegut always liked to say, that our biggest problem is that our brains are too big for our own good.
Behind the scenes is Koestler's obsession with how someone as intelligent as himself could have been duped into being an active member of the Communist Party at the height of Stalin's purges, but I think that obsession makes the book better.
I finally read this book after years of familiarity with just the title.
I always thought it was a political book about the Soviet Union!
I thought "the machine" was a reference to Stalin's Soviet machine and thought "the ghost" was a reference to the people who were someday going to rise up against the machine.
Anyway, I was surprised to find that Ghost in the Machine has nothing to do with politics or the Soviet Union!
Of course, nowadays his critique is outdated, but there are certainly many people who have no idea about any of this and would still be informed by much of it.
Koestler's criticism of Behaviourism and his section on the 'Poverty of Psychology' are spot on.
There's a very tedious section on evolution in the centre of the book; a lengthy tirade against the 'Darwinian orthodoxy' that proposes some odd Larmarckian nonsense.
Reading this section, it occurred to me that as much as I love him, Koestler is an insufferable contrarian.
He is admirably forward-thinking but also way too eager to dismiss rigid methodology and rationality in pursuit of the most grandiose, heretical ideas he can think of.
The only way out, he suggests, is to drug the population!
Koestler himself is not a scientist, but he is very interested in science, and particularly in how the human mind works. In this book, Koestler explores on the intellectual, emotional and creative processes of the mind, employing ideas from such fields as psychology, biology, physics and art in an analysis of how we organize knowledge and how we think. Koestler’s writing is clear, and he employs both examples and diagrams to supply concreteness to his arguments.
not quite sure quite sure if the ideas are right though, but that's okay, they are just so interesting to talk to.I read this book because I love Ghost in the Shell and wanted to read the book which inspired, at least the title.
The way Koestler at the end of the book shares his solution (won't spoil it because it was a bit of a shocker to me), speaks to that desire for rapid change to overcome humanity.Koestler is a fun writer, with a nice dose of humour and sarcasm.
It is fascinating, thought provoking, intriguing, and – from a perspective of the end of 2015 – the most frightening thing I have ever read.I will admit that the content is dated; that the idea of mass psychopharmaceuticals (potentially in the drinking water) has a definite 1960’s feel.
I am not sure if I agree with the basic premise that the problems human beings face are related to the physical speed of our brain growth – but an hypothesis is simply an unproven idea; with this in mind, it is a plausible argument as presented in this book.The part that had me reevaluating the way I see humanity was the end (just before the “cure” of mass doses of LSD).
Arthur Koestler wrote literature and fiction in nineteen forties and early nineteen fifties.
In "The Ghost in the Machine" he concludes, and I feel he does so without much conviction, that the human race, owing to some faults/defects during evolution, may be marching to its early end.
Much has happened in science since Koestler wrote in the sixties and seventies.
And yet Koestler's triology "The sleepwalkers", "The Act of Creation" and "The Ghost in the Machine" taken together broke a new path in the history of science: It led a direct assault on the reductionism and gave new hope to the young scientists in the seventies.
Koestler makes some amazing arguments on the structure and evolution of life (really worth reading). He seems to be one of the pioneers behind some of the concepts that inspired multi-agent systems and artificial intelligence (from a philosophical standpoint).Regardless of the great discussions and insight given by Koestler, his writing is sometimes peculiar (perhaps because it is from 1950s), which made it hard to understand and follow some parts of the book. I suspect however, that's mostly because of my own ignorance regarding several disciplines discussed in the book.
A difficult but fascinating work, written by one of the most influential and important authors within the field. The Author's' critique of the Behavioural Shool; Positivist methodology, and Passive Darwinism are as detailed as they are apposite. I certainly feel more able to contribute to existing debates within the field as a result of reading this book. A fascinating book, which will act as a foundation for further studies in this area.
Just thinking about this book makes my brain hurt. 8^)In brief, here it is:Koestler, a brilliant polymath but not a scientist, posits a theory that flawed development of the brain has left humanity with a tendency for self-destruction.
A trip down memory lane for the reviewer but the theories are now a little dated, excepting for the essay On Not Flogging Dead Horses...that's still well worth the read. Recommended for Koestler fans. 4 out of 5 stars.
But it's what follows after the examination of behaviourism that's integral to the main thesis: here we find Koestler unveiling his set-piece, a neologism which defines and describes any physical or mental unit which behaves both as a part and as a whole - a 'holon' as he calls it.
As Koestler states from the start, he has taken a few years out to interact with lecturers and attend symposiums, and much of what is presented reads like an attempt to exteriorise in print all the disparate ideas he's come across.As the final chapter approaches, we begin with some grave premonitions about nuclear destruction, and the threat to mankind from within is presented in the same poetical and apocalyptic terms that can be found in most popular science-psychology books of the period.
I struggled a little at the beginning of this, but gradually got really into it. A very difficult book to review properly without spending hours on it, I think... Koestler has some very interesting things to say about the human race and why we are the way we are. There's a lot of interesting stuff about evolution, a subject on which Koestler offers some intriguing speculation. He totally trashes behaviourism and ultimately reaches a surprising conclusion. It's impossible not to admire the author's ambition - he really goes after the big questions here!
This book was written in 1967 and the style shows. It is dense and academic but not unreadable, just dated. It has great ideas about behavior, mind, determinism, group mentality, etc. The concept of "holon", for which the book is famous, was interesting. Still I was most interested in the parallels drawn between animal and mechanical operations and the concept of physical and mental states as "ghost in the machine". I wouldn't read the book a second time but I would go over my highlights. Lots of inspiring ideas and metaphors, all written at a time before computers became ubiquitous.
I need to read his follow-up book, Janus: A Summing Up, and honestly, reread this book too because it is dense and it requires a greater concentration than I was giving it on the first go-around. Fascinating ideas about the schizophrenic streak in the human brain and his conceptualization of holons and integrative tendencies within nature as ways of explaining curiosities of evolution. I got that giddy feeling reading some passages.
A fascinating book with unconventional thoughts about evolution and humanity. Presents a useful framework for thinking about parts and wholes. I don't necessarily agree with everything in it, and it's dated in some of its evidence and language, but 5 stars for the depth and followthrough of unconventional thinking.
The Ghost in the Machine reads like a blow-by-blow account of an intra-disciplinary battle in psychology and philosophy departments.
Koestler does shift his approach and try to speak to readers that aren't university professors in a few instances but ends up insulting them with painfully simple and tedious explanations.
The exercise becomes exhausting to the point where one feels like Koestler is building theories on top of theories.Having said that, the evidence he does present for his "ground floor" theories and ideas are compelling in some instances.Overall, this book is more or less an antiquated intellectual work similar to reading Greek philosophers speak of physics or biology.

Morag Chen has met the Architects and everyone is wondering who these beautiful creatures really are. Could they be ancient gods or aliens wanting to take over Earth? Why have they taken over Daniel’s mind? Ghost in the Machine is the second book in the Babel Trilogy. Morag is the narrator this time and she continues the story that Daniel told readers in The Fire Seekers. Morag is continually uncovering hidden truths and constantly needs to reevaluate what she knew about human history. The pages almost turn themselves as the story rolls towards the ending.
A huge brick. The main idea could be explained in 100 pages or less.
Koestler's bugging. first of all, not all of us would even ADMIT that there's a ghost in our own individual machines, but also to imagine that some magic pill - in a country where weed isn't even legal - is the solution makes me think he contrived this whole thing at the behest of some drug company.
The mysterious dominance of one brain hemisphere over the other. Clearly writen by a master who can make complicated scientific stuff easy to follow. Always a good read and worth reading every few years.
A work that examines how the human brain has a "ghost" within it. Koestler calls upon a number of disciplines to explain. He suggests that synthesizing these various disciplines leads to concern about human "schizophysiology," as he puts it.
