https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/97800.Hearing_God
It is a humble dependence and openness upon God. Therefore, Willard’s steps to hearing God:We learn to recognize the weight or force of God’s voice.A certain spiritAnd the content (180).And for the most part, Willard does not think God will speak audibly to us (and so cessationists can start breathing again!), and certainly not in a way that will “add to the Bible,” whatever that (non)argument means.
The “Word” can be:a)eternally set in the heavens (Ps. 119:89).b) the Logoi in the order of nature (Ps. 19:1-4).c) Sown in the ministry of Christ (Mt. 13)d) That which prevailed in Acts (12:24)All of the above is the Word of God, but none of it is equated with the Bible.
In honor of Dallas Willard's recent passing, I reread HEARING GOD.
Filled with wise counsel and deep reflection, he begins with what should be obvious to all Christians: God wants to have an intimate daily relationship with us, one characterized by conversational communication.
We are to expect God to guide, counsel, critique, and comfort us as he shapes us into his son's image.
How do we hear God and recognize his voice?
The result is a mess of conflicting assumptions about the nature of God, Jesus and the Bible.Individualistic assumptionsConnected to the previous problem, Willard has no cogent response for how to determine whether the voice we hear is actually God because, as required by his evangelical audience and assumptions, he does not do more than pay lip service to the notion of community as a primary lens through which to filter your beliefs (as opposed to solitary Bible reading and prayer).Failure to acknowledge doubtWith the exception of the epilogue, which, um, isn't exactly a sign of taking it seriously, Willard simply assumes that hearing God is a thing that can and should happen.
Willard also shares his personal experiences in this area, and debunks many myths as to why people think they do not hear God. He also shows some false notions of how to hear God’s voice.The crux of the book is about developing a “conversational relationship” with God, that is, a 2-way conversation, rather than us just making our prayer speeches at God.The audiobook was easy to understand, a bit fast and difficult to follow purely because of the huge amount of information contained.
And since there seems to be some evidence that the vast bulk of heavenly communication takes place either through the Word or through the Holy Spirit working in us in ways we cannot always perceive, I think teaching people that constant extrabiblical communication from God is a prerequisite for a healthy relationship with Him is a recipe for disaster, anxiety, and doubt.However, assuming we maintain a high view of Scripture and don't spend our lives being paralyzed by fear that God has some secret will He is hiding from us or that we're not really Christians (or 'good' Christians) if God doesn't talk to us every day, I don't have a problem with allowing for the possibility that He may speak to us.Willard has some deeply practical advice here, that avoids both pitfalls.
It did seem a little too obvious to read a book titled "In Search of Guidance" during this time.I knew from the outset that reading this book wasn't going to answer all my questions or give me some sort of formula that if followed would yield instructions on exactly what steps to take next.
This book (thankfully) isn't that.When making big life decisions, I consistently go to God asking for directional answers, specific instructions as to what to do.
No “Hey, Barbara, go back to South Africa” messages came during this time in my life or through my reading of this book.
What I found most important in reading this book was the chapter in which the author leads us to examine our motives in wanting to speak to God. He warns against trying to "use" God so that we can exalt ourselves to a place of spiritual authority; approaching God with fear and insisting that he direct every aspect of our lives so that we can feel "safe;" and treating God as a kind of "cosmic butler" that should be at our beck and call to clean up our messes.
Instead, the author gently leads the reader into wanting to live in freedom as one of God's children, and then shows us how we can do it.
Among the books I've read about Christianity, this was one of the most challenging. None of it really went down easily, and it prompted some serious introspection. This one will be on my mind for a long time.
We must learn to find in them the voice of the god in whom we live and move and have our being." (182) "More of God's speaking to me has come in conjunction with study and teaching of the Bible than with anything else." (183) "We all know what foolishness sometimes follows on the heels of the words 'God told me.'" (186) "We need to know what the voice of God is like, how it comes and what kinds of things it might way if we are to protect ourselves and those around us in the fellowship of the faithful from people who are malicious or who are being carried away with voices contrary to God, which they themselves may not understand." (186-7) "Faith is not opposed to knowledge; it is opposed to sight.
Refreshing while insightful. Willard is at times difficult to read and to follow in the line of thought but with patience his writing brings clarity and depth. Hearing God is a book that I recommend to anyone who tired of all the superstition and fake spirituality, but longs for a constant, continual relationship with the Lover of our soul, Jesus Christ.
I enjoyed this book and would certainly would recommend it for new believers or for those believers who want to deepen their relationship with God. Willard's direction is solid and trustworthy and will resonate with those who seek God.
A transformational read for me—precisely timed, welcome. Thank you, Jesus.
Wisdom, in no small portion.
Dallas Willard is an author I respect and appreciate.
It is refreshing to read a book that resonates with my soul.
While there were a few parts of this book that felt like wading through treacle, for the most part, I found it lifted my heart to God. While I have already grown to have an confidence that God is communicating with me, Willard builds a gentle, but sound case for the whys and hows of conversing with God. I appreciate how he breaks down misconceptions and brings new expectations.
He encourages me to want more and to believe that I CAN have it.
Dallas Willard's book, Hearing God: Developing a Conversational Relationship with God, has the most practical, wise and biblically sound reading I have ever done on the subject of divine guidance.
For all the correctives that Willard gives on matters of divine guidance for Christians, the book's main purpose is to show that God strongly desires to communicate with us on a personal, conversational level.
219)."Spiritual people," Willard says, "are not those who engage in certain spiritual practices; they are those who draw their life from a conversational relationship with God. They do not live their lives merely in terms of the human order in the visible world; they have "a life beyond" (p.
However, it was validating, reminding me of how I am connected to God. This was particularly meaningful, as during the two weeks I listened to this book on my commute to and from work, we were matched with a birth mom for an adoption, which then fell through.During the emotional roller coaster, I questioned my recognition of God's voice to us about the match (and even adoption in general, at times).
He says, "people are meant to live in an ongoing conversation with God, speaking and being spoken to...he can and does guide us by addressing us."One of my favourite parts of the book was when Willard used this analogy to explain why we need to be in Christ, to be given a new life to live and breathe in him, and how if we are dead to him we will never see or understand him and in the same way if we are dead to the world, and alive in Christ, we should not be "understanding" or succumbing to the world.
Willard bounced around a bit, dealing with a variety of topics related to the idea of hearing God. This sometimes made it difficult to follow, but not too bad.The place where he really lost me, however, is near the end of the book, where he says that the central question for the church today is to figure out why Jesus came.
Jesus came to seek and to save we who were lost, to give His life a ransom for many, and to pay the sin debt for all who trust in Him. He came to die, not just to give us timely tips for living!I know that wasn't the central theme of Willard's book, but in the midst of other questionable thoughts, this one pushed it over the edge for me.
Eminently readable, practical, and profound, this book has the potential to change Christ's people individually and collectively if it were more widely read and integrated into ourselves.
To me, the last chapter logically would have come first, helping to motivate the rest of the book and challenging us to believe that deepening our understanding of God's communication with us is essential to answering the call of Christ.
Willard goes far beyond my inkling to discuss that in detail and in the appropriate context of a conversational relationship with God.
Short review: This is a classic book on hearing God. And I think it will be reading in another 25 years as well.
The strength of Willard is his grounding in historical Christianity, his strong biblical and theological understanding and his awareness that no one will ever really fully understand God. So he is humble in his presentation, not because he is unsure, but because he knows that we are fallen.I think this would be matched well with Bill Hybels' Power of a Whisper because this focuses more on theology and philosophy behind hear from God (as well as seeking after God in a more general sense).
Both are good, I think together they are better.Full review on my blog at http://www.mrshields.com/hearing-god-...
I wasn't satisfied with the way he expressed the role of Scripture as the Word of God, although he claims in the book itself to have laid emphasis on it.
He definitely speak about it, but I don't think it was expressed in the proper order or with the proper emphasis.
Maybe I really missed something in reading this book, but I find that a little hard to believe since I worked through the first half of it twice.
I read through half, thought it wasn't worth my time and put it down, then picked it up again deciding to start from the beginning and give it another chance.
A must read for learning how to hear God's voice as well as maturing in the Christian faith.
Dallas Willard not only makes the case for God still speaking today, he addresses the many roadblocks that get in the way of hearing that voice.
He also challenges us to remain steadfast in our walk with Christ when we hear Him and when we don't and to take up the work of walking with God in conversational relationship and reality; to learn God's voice and appreciate it while not being "spiritual hypochondriacs" about it, needing a word for every action we take or decision we make in this life.There is a lot to this book and I feel unable to give it a just review.
I have a great deal of respect for Willard and his way of thinking through scripture.
In Hearing God, he lets go of much of the intellectual side of his faith and concentrates on how God speaks to us.
This book will open up the prompting of the Spirit for many as Willard argues that God is not through speaking to people just because the Bible is complete.
This book is not an easy read and will likely take multiple readings, but Willard will get you to look at scripture and the Spirit in ways you may never have considered before.
Such a phenomenal book and a must read for anyone who wants to develop in their relationship with God. Willard offers wisdom throughout the book on the primary ways God speaks, and offers practical advice on how to hear Him. I would recommend this book to anyone, but don't try and speed through it. Cherish each chapter and use each chapter to grow in your own personal conversation and relationship with Him. 5+ stars
Fantastically clear, broad in its application, and hopeful for those that are a cautious about the over-zealous, but deeply desiring a conversation with God. Highly recommend!
When I started the book, I didn't think it would end up as a 5 star book -- good, maybe 4 stars…I liked the writing; I agreed with Willard…but as I moved through the last half of the book, I just could not read it slowly enough. Yes, slowly enough. I had to stop and just wonder at what I had just read. I want to read this book again, I like it that much.
This book took much longer to read than I anticipated. It is so full of wisdom and scripture that my recommendation is to take it in slowly, digesting a bit at a time. I have never read a book on the topic of communication with God that has been more profound. It will become a book that I reference and re-read over and over.
I loved this book. It was very appropriate timing to choose this book over Lent, particularly as we had some big decisions to make and really wanted to hear from God on them. Thanks to Dallas, I feel a bit more equipped to recognize God's voice when he speaks.
Dr. Willard has written a life changing book for those who crave a greater understanding for how God operates in his part of our two-way communication. I would recommend getting the latest edition so that the reader can perform each lectio divina exercise after finishing each chapter.
Gods communication comes in many forms We may be seeking guidance from the wrong motives The most popular bible study course is ‘knowing the will of God’ we are preoccupied with ourselves and Gods will for ‘me’ instead of others and Gods glory Can you make any sense at all of an intimate personal relationship where there are no specific communications?He doesn’t want stepford wives.
Communication through word and shared activity (the better way of communicating)God speaks to me how I listenFrank Laubach ‘… this spirit which comes to a mind set upon continuous surrender, this spirit is timeless’We don’t need to clarify knowledge we need to clarify faith.
