https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/59810.Jewels_of_the_Sun
The way she thought was so much fun to read and I relate to her in many ways.Aiden, the romantic interest, I liked him at first but was disappointed that he just wanted to lust over her at the beginning/middle of the novel.
I thought he would be more intellectual and would be interested in her for her mind and their shared love for folklore (where there was but not the main drive they had for their romance).
I want to read a romance where the main characters aren't just driven by sex the whole novel but be able to relate to each other on another level, or else it doesn't seem convincing.
3.5/Leer a la Roberts siempre es un placer y, aunque está historia me ha gustado, se nota que es antigua; tanto en la trama como en su pluma. Sin embargo, Nora sabe cómo enganchar al lector.
Talk about rose tinted glasses!
This woman can't weave a decent plot to save her life, she just keeps spewing out this tired old read-on-an-airplane-then-bin-it-while-feeling-slightly-dirty formula.
This series really takes the biscuit, the cake and hogs all the crisps when it comes to ridiculous over romanticising of Ireland.
Ardmore is a nice place to visit but the airy fairy "Oh, look at the leprechauns, Seamus" crap described in this book doesn't even come close.
Why the hell do non-Irish authors persist in drooling all over us with this saccharine bull?
I wish there was someway I could give this book no stars.
I do remember reading that Ms Roberts went to Ireland as an adult, and it was the home of her ancestors, and thus began her literary love affair with Ireland.So Jude (Nora's female prototype no.
I didn't really like Jude much, and her metamorphosis (from timid to bold - sort of) didn't move me at all, and when she got mad at Aiden because he (understandably) got her passive aggressive signals mixed up, I wondered if he'd have the stones to dump her and get with me instead.
I read this trilogy for the first a few years ago and fell in love with all the characters and their stories.
Nora Roberts has a magical touch that draws the reader in and makes them feel involved with the lives of the characters in her stories.
Carrick's mistakes build the foundations for the three stories and makes it a very beautiful tale.
It is pretty much a given who the major players will be, but the way they go about falling in love with each other, the mistakes they make even with the ghosts and faeries meddling to keep them on track makes these stories very refreshing.
I just recently re-read these stories and fell in love all over again!
Devorado y disfrutado. ❤
it was alot of fun to watch.There were a couple times I wanted to smack Aidan upside the head for certain things and I actually commended Jude on one occasion, if I was there I would have bought her a drink :).Jude flees Chicago for a 'break' of sorts for six months in her relative's cottage in Ireland.
*My nerd side showing, Darcy kept popping up in my head as Darcy Lewis sometimes haha* It's hard to describe completely, but I admire their loyalty to each other and their friends, the musical talent, and the seemingly boundless energy from Darcy (I need to bottle that for myself) sometimes.His attempts to woo Jude were sweet, even if he went about it the wrong way a couple times.The ending, I was crying happy tears, I'll just say that...
Siempre me cuesta un poco calificar los libros de esta autora porque lo que me pasa es que hay cosas que me gustan mucho, como los personajes y las ambientaciones y otras que no como por ejemplo los eternos relatos de los protagonistas y todas las descripciones que hacen por hojas, como que se hace un poco repetitivo el relato.
Es una cuestión de estilo de la autora que a mi por momentos me aburre un poco.El libro me gustó, repito, me encanta las ambientaciones, los lugares que elige esta autora para contar sus historias y como sus personajes encajan perfecto en ese contexto, pero no me mató y creo que para continuar con la serie voy a esperar un poquito.
Should explain why I read this. While pursuing my Library Science degree, I took a reader's advisory class where we sampled books from across various genres. I was assigned this novel for the romance section. This novel was objectively horrible. The worst novel I have ever read from cover to cover. Main character is supposed to be empowered heroine but is actually a ninny. Use of metaphor akin to high school poetry. How Roberts has reached such heights of popularity is a wonder. Make mine Austen.
For these books we are in an adorable wee town in Ireland. Three hundred years ago a fairy prince fell in love with a beautiful woman. Now three couples have to break the curse on them by finding their own true love.
And this is why I don't read adult romance.... This was just lame. The whole story made no sense, the characters, oh boy!, the characters.I can't believe how different Nora's writing style is when she writes under the J.D. Robb penname. I'm telling you, I don't like Nora, I'll just remain faithfull to J.D.'s novels.
A wonderful romance by the brilliant Nora Roberts. Get swept away!
(4.5 stars) Jewels of the Sun was an absolutely fantastic read.
This is the first Nora Roberts book I've read, since I've always preferred historical romance over contemporary and have tended to avoid Nora Roberts and Danielle Steel like the plague.
I'm so glad I decided to read this book - I had actually been in the library about to return it unread, when I started reading it and decided to give it a try.A definite reread for me with absolutely wonderful main characters (give me an Irishman like Aidan any day!
There is something about reading a Nora Roberts book, set in Ireland, that makes you want to run out and find a handsome Irishman to swoon over and sweep you off your feet. As is usually the case, I have found myself falling in love with these characters that Nora has brought to life. The unique way she tells her character's stories makes me never want to stop reading.
So far, that's been a reasonable predictor of my enjoyment of her novels.
So while the presence of Ireland as almost a supporting character of the novel was interesting, it turned out to be less of a draw than I think Roberts intended.
In the end, the novel was satisfying without quite rising to the level of outstanding.A note about Steamy: There were a few explicit scenes in the book and they were steamy enough to warrant the tag.
The book has, above that, some of the best kissing scenes I've ever read.
Aidan was a charming, poetic bar owner I simply like although he is kind of a blockhead towards the end.
This was one of the things that annoyed me a little in this re-read since every local idiot could see connection between the stories and especially what went wrong in the end.
Duh. The book has a charming, fairytale like atmosphere, sometimes too sugary sweet, but still enjoyable.
I just like Nora Roberts stories, the lack of woman shaming, almost no other woman drama, rarely douchebag heroes.
Especially her „romance only“ books are just so fluffy, cute and sweet reads.
Like I said, I'm not a big fan of romantic novels, but I have read enough of them to be able to say that this is the only series of the genre that has really stuck with me (except maybe the Three Sisters Island trilogy by the same author).
Roberts has an incredible writing style - very beyond the usual fluff and slap and tickle of other romance writers; and I think that's why I've enjoyed many of her stories so much.
D. Robb.:]I love the way Roberts uses Irish lore and tradition to make these books as magical as the land they take place in.
I loved the mythology and folklore that was presented in this. The way Aidan and Jude's relationship had bearing on Carrick, the Faerie Prince and Lady Gwen's eternity was neat. It wasn't said whether or not they'd be together now or if it's dependent on the rest of the Gallagher family to find their true loves for them to have their happily ever after. I guess I'll have to read the rest of the series to find out :)
Although I have grown tired of NR's trilogies and don't read them anymore. This is one of my favorites - from before they had a rinse and repeat tone to them. I probably gave this series a 4 star rating the first go round, and it's not quite there for me anymore, but...Since one of my reading groups had this as a challenge, I opted to read it again. And I'm thinking this could still be my favorite trilogy of hers. Now onto books #2 and #3.
This book made me decide to really take a year or two of my life to live in Ireland.
Her marriage ended two years before, she was unhappy with her students, dissatisfied with her work life and losing touch with herself.
You'd find how touching the last part of the book is when he finally gave her the words she was looking for.The novel also has some magic incorporated in it and Ireland is this place where legends and lore are accepted without batting an eyelash.
They say that when you come to Ireland, you could feel the hum of magic in its soil.
4 January 2015: $1.99 on KindleThis entire series, and indeed most NR books, are comfort reads for me.
Nearly always I can open up a NR book and know exactly what I'm going to get.
A good romance with great characters.I don't think this is my favorite in the series - which is probably the second book (Tears of the Moon) - but it was still slightly surprising to me to not love it as much as my memory made me think I did.
Ireland is beautiful, even in description, and NR paints a wonderful picture, full off fantastic characters that you're sure you could meet.
3,5 stars :)Fast and enjoyable read. Simply two people falling in love in the beautiful Ireland, with all the scenery, folklore and other nice details. Nothing extraordinary, but I liked it :) There were also some hilarious moments that I enjoyed and laughed. Second book is supposed to be better, so I'm looking forward to reading it and find out which one of the Gallaghers is the MC.
I liked the myth on which the story is based as much as the story itself. This is a truly magical story of love.
*** 3.5/5 ***Cute and light hearted - a nice last summer read before delving into dark fall reads...
The Gallagher siblings, Aiden, Shawn & Darcy have to find their true loves as this is the only way Carrick, Prince of the Faeries, can reunite with his lost love for the last 300 years, Lady Gwen.The settings are so vivid – I could feel the beauty and quiet serenity, the laughter, the music, the legends and stories, the harmony between the land, sea and sky.
The lush green hill, with a sprinkle of fairy dust has one believing that magic exists here.Jewels of the Sun is the 1st book and tells the story of Aiden, the eldest sibling runs Gallaghers, the family pub in the village, who after spending some years travelling the world, has return to the place he feels and calls home.
It is of course Very Irish to the point of being ridiculous, but since I've never been to Ireland I choose to believe that there really are charming little villages like this somewhere (full of gorgeous, smart and kind young men with no mental problems at all).I often find myself not liking Roberts's men, they are often too brooding and whiny for my taste.
I also loved the way the leading lady, Jude, changed during the book and discovered some hidden strength in herself.
Considering the amount of people who suffer from domestic violence and other abuse, I cannot find anything light-hearted about using violence as a way to control others and solve problems.
What a lovely world this novel is set in.It also functions as perfect escapist literature for women who would love to imagine leaving their lives, moving to a beautiful cottage in Ireland where they find friends, family, meaningful work and a drop-dead-gorgeous Irishman who treats them like a queen.
The only thing that marred the guilty pleasure of reading this novel was the main character, who was so focused on finding herself that she didn't even seem interested in the male lead character, except for sex.
Also, just because she was finding her self-esteem didn't mean she had to treat that guy like such crap.

The first book in Nora Roberts' Gallaghers of Ardmore/Irish Trilogy.
Jude Murray has come to Ardmore in Ireland to write a thesis on myths and legends and how they relate to psychology.
While there she meets the handsome Aidan Gallagher, local pub owner and hottie.This had a slightly dated feel to it and ran at a rather slow pace for me.
It also didn't feel completely finished.
Like there needed to be an epilogue or something.
But it is a series so I guess the future books will address the issues I felt were not complete.
But it wasn't bad and I did like the characters and the banter.
Nora'nın çok sevdiği İrlanda kültürüyle ilgili bir diğer serisi. Gayet sevimli, öyle büyük bir kötülük felan da yok. Serideki fantastik tek kısım peri prensi ile hüzünlü bir hayalet. Devam ediyorum...
