https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/380994.A_Lover_s_Discourse
So, this book, this fucking book, is sexy.
It's sexy in all caps.
SEXY.
SEXY.
I read it and the whole time I bit my lip and I just went hot damn, jeez, oooh, oh, oh, oh, oh, you know what I mean Roland?
It was an appropriate book because so much here has to do with the impossibility of desire and love.
Maybe impossibility is the wrong word.
Roland do you have the right word?
And it's probably in this book.
I should read this book again.
Barthes calls them "figures"—gestures of the lover at work.تاریخ نخستین خوانش: بیست و سوم ماه نوامبر سال 2010 میلادینام کتاب: سخن عاشق؛ عنوان فرعی:: گزیده گویه ها؛ نویسنده: رولان بارت؛ مترجم: پیام یزدانجو؛ مشخصات نشر: تهران، نشر مرکز، تعداد صفحه: 312 ص، چاپ: چاپ اول، 1383؛ چاپ چهارم، 1388اگر عاشق شدید سخن عاشق را بخوانیدکتاب «سخن عاشق» نوشته‌ ی «رولان بارت» با ترجمه‌ ی «پیام یزدانجو» ست.
در توضیحات پشت جلد کتاب آمده است: «سخن عاشق سخنی از فرط تنهایی ست.
سخن عاشق جذاب‌ترین و به یاد ماندنی‌ترین کتاب رولان بارت، و آخرین بخش از قطعه نویسی‌ها و گزیده گویی‌های اوست.
در این کتاب، فیلسوف فرانسوی و منتقد ادبی، رولان بارت، تلاش میکند تا یکی از قویترین احساسات انسانی را مورد تحلیل قرار دهد: عشق.بارت ادعا میکند که جامعهی مدرن از فقدان یک زبان برای تحلیل مساله عشق رنج میبرد. به عقیده بارت، بدون وجود یک سیستم تحلیلی و تفسیری از عشق، قادر به رهایی از فرمهای غیر سالم و غیر بازتابی از عشق نخواهیم بود. و این نکته میتواند صدمات روانی زیادی برای طرفین درگیر ایجاد کند.بارت مدعی است که در یک رابطه عاشقانه درست، عشق میتواند منبع الهامات و امیدبخش باشد. در حالی که در یک فرم
در این کتاب، فیلسوف فرانسوی و منتقد ادبی، رولان بارت، تلاش می‌کند تا یکی از قوی‌ترین احساسات انسانی را مورد تحلیل قرار دهد: عشق‫.بارت ادعا می‌کند که جامعه‌ی مدرن از فقدان یک زبان برای تحلیل مساله عشق رنج می‌برد.
و این نکته می‌تواند صدمات روانی زیادی برای طرفین درگیر ایجاد کند‫.بارت مدعی است که در یک رابطه عاشقانه درست، عشق می‌تواند منبع الهامات و امیدبخش باشد.
در حالی که در یک فرم ناسالم، عشق میتواند منبع دردهای دردهای روانی، علتی برای خودکشی یا زخم‌های عمیقی باشد که شاید برای همیشه، دو طرف را درگیر کند‫.به عنوان یکی از پیشروان پساساختارگرایی، رویکرد بارت در مورد بحران روابط عاشقانه تا حد زیادی منحصر به فرد و یگانه است.
This was a heavy (no, not the weight of the book, just heavy going, but in grandiose way!), irrefutable, and intense read, where, with the recreation of the lover's fevered consciousness he goes about deconstructing love, to write maybe the the most detailed, painstaking anatomy of desire that we are ever likely to see.
There was an emotional power to his prose, that, for anyone that ever loved, may be reminded, and forced to face up to moments from their own intimate past.Although this does require much mental effort that really sends one's grey matter into overdrive (especially for those not accustomed with philosophical writings) Barthes strikes a cord deep within with a study of love that is subtle, rich in insight, penetrating the heart as well as the head.
WE ARE IN LOVE!RB: but I wonder if he loves me more than I love him?RB: you've met him once, what do you think?X: oh, I don't know, it was a while ago!X: I haven't seen either of you in a whileRB: oh?RB: I wonder if it is TORMENTING him that I haven't called?RB: see I said I would callRB: but I'm just waiting for him to call meX: why?RB: you don't get itRB: I wonder why he hasn't called me?RB: maybe there's something wrong with my landline?RB: ...
It is the layered language of love which interests Barthes: what do we say when we are in love?
Though the semiotic approach to love seems distant and cold, it is the inverse which we feel when reading Barthes, whose very language moves the reader to a shudder of feeling: 
At these interstices of language lies the fundamental truths of Love.What does it mean to be in love?
Despite his apotheosis of Language, even Barthes feels its inadequacy in front of the edifice of Love: 
Barthes is torn between the deities of Eros and Logos - Love and Language.
کتاب را نخوانده رها کردم و بی نظر میگذارمش....سه ستاره تا جایی که خوانده بودم اما به دلیل خاطره بدی که برجای گذاشت حتی ستاره ای هم نصیبش نمیکنم."صدسال است که مهفوم جنون (ادبی) را در این گفته ی رمبو یافته اند که "من یک کس دیگرام": دیوانگی تجربه ى از دست دادن شخصیت خود است......من به گونه ای گریز ناپذیر خودم هستم, همین است که مرا دیوانه کرده: من دیوانه ام چون همین ام که هستم."
He positions the simple act of recognition, the utterance: "That is so true..." as the qualifier for an amorous image to be constitutive of the lover's "image repertoire"(as he calls it).
E.g., this illustration from the entry "Monstrous." "The lover's discourse stifles the other, who finds no place for his own language beneath this massive utterance."The book is divided, seemingly haphazardly (alphabetically), into sections dealing with various utterances, conditions, or dispositions of the amorous image repertoire.
Absence, adorable, affirmation, alteration, etc.But really the book should be called An Unrequited Lover's Discourse, because it has *nothing* to do with the discourses or image repertoire that arise on love fulfilled.
La fatale identità dell’innamorato non è altro che: io sono quello che aspetta"Non vorrete mica darmi a bere che almeno per una volta nella vita anche voi non siete rimasti in quello stato che descrive benissimo De Gregori?:"E Cesare perduto nella pioggia sta aspettando da sei ore il suo amore ballerina E rimane li' a bagnarsi ancora un po'e il tram di mezzanotte se ne va"C'è da dire inoltre che l' innamorato descritto da Barthes è quello più frequente e vale a dire quello non ricambiato, l' infelice.
Language is a skin: I rub my language against the other. It is as if words instead of fingers, or fingers at the tip of my words. My language trembles with desire.   - This is a book you either read over a period of time, in spurts, in fragments as it is written, or you binge read in a couple of days, like I have. Each chapter is a definition, a philosophical tease, a shortened version of what could be a lecture or an erudite discussion on life and love; after all, Barthes made his living as a
Each chapter is a definition, a philosophical tease, a shortened version of what could be a lecture or an erudite discussion on life and love; after all, Barthes made his living as an academic.- This is a book you should read after having read Goethe's The Sorrows of Young Werther and Selected Writings.
(However, read The Selected Writings version of Young Werther and you'll learn, from Goethe himself, that this feeling of despair started before love, that love may have been a trigger, yes, but, according to Goethe, most readers tend to evaluate the book differently).- This is a book to read only when you're open to discussing love in several abstract and concrete forms.
This book is a classic in France, and it's probably Barthe's most popular work.
It is bittersweet, in the sense that the course of love is always almost the same, yet it's a book filled with happiness, joys, and at the end quite reassuring: what ever heartbreak you've been through, it's finally quite normal.
Reading this book won't teach anyone how to love better or more wisely, but it does portray the complexities, small and big, and the mutliple wonders of love, in a very unique and direct way.


i have no idea why so many people find it erotic or expressive of their most intimate amorous sentiments.
if anything, the book strikes a poignant note insofar as it amasses example after example of how the imaginary (our desires) and the symbolic (our words and concepts) inevitably fail to match one another.
it occurs to me after reading various other reviews, that people should spend far less time projecting their fantasies on to authors and titles, and far more time reading books with the same care that went into writing them.
این راست نیست که هرچه عاشقتر باشی بهتر درک میکنی. همهی آنچه عشق و عاشقی از من میخواهد فقط درکِ این حکمت است: دیگــــــــــــــری نشنــــــــــــــاختنی اســــــــــــــت؛ماتیِ او پردهی ابهامی به روی یک راز نیست، بل گواهی است که در آن بازیِ بود و نمود هیچجایی ندارد. پس من در مسرتِ عشق ورزیدن به یک ناشناس غرق میشوم، کسی که تا ابد ناشناس خواهد ماند. سِیری عارفانه: من آنچه را نمیشناسم میشناسم...
این راست نیست که هرچه عاشق‌تر باشی بهتر درک می‌کنی. همه‌ی آنچه عشق و عاشقی از من می‌خواهد فقط درکِ این حکمت است: دیگــــــــــــــری نشنــــــــــــــاختنی اســــــــــــــت؛ماتیِ او پرده‌ی ابهامی به روی یک راز نیست، بل گواهی است که در آن بازیِ بود و نمود هیچ‌جایی ندارد. پس من در مسرتِ عشق ورزیدن به یک ناشناس غرق می‌شوم، کسی که تا ابد ناشناس خواهد ماند. سِیری عارفانه: من آن‌چه را نمی‌شناسم می‌شناسم...
Originally posted here.Admittedly, this is the kind of book that I will quickly chuck for its verbosity. I’ve always thought books like this – those that use hemorrhagic and florid words – were written more for the purpose of exhibiting the author’s unparalleled vocabulary more than anything. But for some reason, I hung on to this one. I stayed with it, and it stayed with me. Willingly.  Language is a skin: I rub my language against the other. It is as if I had words instead of fingers, or finge
I’ve always thought books like this – those that use hemorrhagic and florid words – were written more for the purpose of exhibiting the author’s unparalleled vocabulary more than anything.
These fragments are the marriage of love and theory – love theorized.
Barthes assigns names to people, places and things which he makes use of throughout the book.
Structurally, they both use fragments, of words or phrases explained, but 
A Lover’s Discourse: Fragments
نمایش  برگرد مرا ببین بر اساس این کتاب از رولان بارت، تا 5 شهریور هر شب ساعت 9 در خانه وارطان (خانه گفتمان شهر و معماری) به روی صحنه می رود. این اجرا ترکیبی از ویدئو، هنرهای تجسمی، چیدمان صوتی و نمایش است. آقای رضا کیانیان هم بعنوان راوی در این نمایش-چیدمان نقش آفرینی می کنند
Questo è un libro speciale.La malinconia per il lutto d’amore, il momento paradisiaco dei segni sott
L'amore è come le foglie di lattugaUna delle preoccupazioni maggiori di Barthes nello scrivere questo libro, è la stessa che ha il lettore nello spiegare cosa ha letto ed evitare qualsiasi fraintendimento sul fatto che non sia un banale libro sull’amore.
Se Werther avesse avuto modo di leggere il libro di Barthes, di sicuro non sarebbe finito nel modo che sappiamo, ma piuttosto avrebbe scritto pamphlet umoristici burlandosi delle proprie tragedie sentimentali, una sorta di Woody Allen ante litteram.
Now at the tail-end of a long relationship, the terrible beauty of Barthes' writing is quite effulgent.I was reminded again of how great a novel (well, anti-novel...) ALD is when Jeffrey Eugenides paid such tender, bittersweet homage to it in 'The Marriage Plot'.There is a scene where Madeleine is lying in bed reading The Book, eating peanut butter from the jar with a spoon, while it is raining outside ...
Who needs Oprah Winfrey, as bland as processed Big Mac cheese, when you can have the Holy Emmental (elemental?) Barthes to comfort, distract and chafe you simultaneously?In the canon of greatest literature about love, ALD is up there with 'Song of Songs' and the 'Kama Sutra'.A book to live and love by.
I have literally no idea how to begin to comment on this.It is the most extraordinary work ...
It's kind of an exploration of love ...
of the affect of love on the mind ...
via language.
Or rather it seeks to liberate the meaning of love from the meaning of language about love.Oh I cannot.
I just cannot.This probably makes it sound weird or inaccessible, but it's playful, expressive, fascinating, true.Probably the most ...
human writings on the subject of love I have ever read.
Or at least the crazy, desirous, all-consuming side of it.Sometimes, love is just someone who makes you a cup of a tea.
The tender gesture says: ask me anything that can put your body to sleep, but also do not forget that I desire you - a little, lightly, without trying to seize anything right away.Sexual pleasure is not metonymic: once taken, it is cut off: it was the Feast, always terminated and instituted only by temporary, supervised lifting of the prohibition.
Tenderness, on the contrary, is nothing but an infinite, insatiable metonymy; the gesture, the episode of tenderness (the delicious harmony of an evening) can only be interrupted with laceration: everything seems called into question once again: return of rhythm - vritti - disappearance of nirvana.
كتاب غريب جدا فمن ناحية هو تأريخا للعشق من خلال أبطال حقيقيين أو خياليين,ومن ناحية أخري قد تعتبره هل
i wanted this to be a wordless review, or a capital letters review, something to simply state that this has OPENED MY EYES, that this is a dazzle of SIX STARS, that everyone should own this book in hardcover.
— Yes, since I am waiting.
Sometimes I want to play the part of the one who doesn't wait; I try to busy myself elsewhere, to arrive late; but I always lose at this game: whatever I do, I find myself there, with nothing to do, punctual, even ahead of time.
The lover's fatal identity is precisely: I am the one who waits.
In ogni caso, se avrete la pazienza di non suicidarvi, passerà, sia che ci si ritrovi in una coppia vita natural durante sia che ci si lasci tra gl’improperi.
A qualcuno forse darà fastidio, ma a me sentirmi nella norma (una volta tanto - bis) mi ha rassicurato.
Non mi piacciono i commenti con citazioni ipertrofiche, ma qui devo fare un’eccezione: “La catastrofe amorosa s’avvicina forse a ciò che, nel campo psicotico, è stata definita una situazione estrema, la quale è ; l’immagine è ricavata da ciò che avvenne a Dachau.
Jesus I only got to 17th page and I am in love with the book.It’s not a book you can rush, like wine you have to savour every line and chew them properly to get the essences of the words. (Toward the end seemed a bit exhausted)Honestly if you have a chance to read this book, or in the mood, do read it.
Uno specchio per riflettere Un testo da prendere a piccole dosi. Un testo impegnativo eppure attraente.Dopo l’iniziale perplessità per un linguaggio forbito e assai specialistico, non sempre a me comprensibile e, quindi, a volte frenante, mi sono lasciata prendere dall’argomento, anzi, ‘dagli’ argomenti: in ordine strettamente alfabetico (a confermare l’apprezzabile oggettività dell’intero trattato), tutti i risvolti di un unico abito: l’amore. Dagli “Abbracci” alle “Vie d’uscita”, attraverso u
Un testo impegnativo eppure attraente.Dopo l’iniziale perplessità per un linguaggio forbito e assai specialistico, non sempre a me comprensibile e, quindi, a volte frenante, mi sono lasciata prendere dall’argomento, anzi, ‘dagli’ argomenti: in ordine strettamente alfabetico (a confermare l’apprezzabile oggettività dell’intero trattato), tutti i risvolti di un unico abito: l’amore.
Dagli “Abbracci” alle “Vie d’uscita”, attraverso un percorso accidentato a tappe scandite, dove prendere fiato prima del passaggio successivo, ci si trova dunque a ripercorrere passi della propria vita.
Tappe su cui eventualmente tornare a riflettere, in ordine sparso, secondo il proprio sentire.
"Roland might be a good guy for you to talk to.
He'll tell you that if you're the sort of person who prevaricates over things and worries about the meanings of their words, you'll have that same conversation with yourself when you're alone."That friend is more of a romantic than me, and so is Barthes.
Neither of them will make me a better lover.But just like that same friend has my back for sure, Roland Barthes is someone I like to listen to, even when he's a man old enough to be my father who still compares himself to Werther.
من غیرداستانی های زیادی نخواندم و برنامه دارم که بخوانم اما پیشاپیش می دانم سخن عاشق همیشه جایگاه جدایی برایم خواهد داشت.حرف زدن درباره ی کتاب سخت است،بارت هیچ چیز را ناگفته باقی نگذاشته و به ظریف ترین و دور از چشم ترین لحظات عشق ورود کرده و به شکلی این لحظات را کالبدشکافی کرده.
و بعضی قسمت ها احساسات غریب و یادآوری های دردناکی برایم داشت.خیلی برایم عجیب است که اخیرا با غیرداستانی ها راحتتر گریه می کنم تا داستانی ها.سخن عاشق هم گاهی شبیه شکنجه می شد،دردآور و اشک آور.جزو معدود کتاب هایی بود که به خاطرش دست به قلم بردم و جملات زیادی را واو به واو به یادگار برداشتم.
This is a powerful book.Of all the philosophical graffiti written on the backs of bathroom doors when I was in college, my favorite was a simple survey: Are you in love or in love with the idea of love?
Most people chose the latter.Barthes tackles the depth and breadth of the idea of love, in all its agony and ecstasy.
Barthes tackles the ideas of Werther, Nietzsche, Freud, and sprinkles the etymology of various Greek, French and Italian words for good measure.
Just read this:This is how it happens sometimes, misery or joy engulfs me, without any particular tumult ensuing: nor any pathos: I am dissolved, not dismembered, I fall, I flow, I melt.
Colto senza essere pedante; enciclopedico, perfino ipertestuale, senza mai smettere di essere lieve. E c'è forse qualcosa di più bello di un'analisi del 'discorso amoroso', ovvero di quello che una persona innamorata dice a se stessa, di come legge & interpreta la propria situazione? Ho deciso; da grande voglio essere Roland Barthes.
