https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/319644.Gregor_and_the_Marks_of_Secret
Gregor and the Marks of Secret (Underland Chronicles, #4), Suzanne CollinsGregor and the Marks of Secret is a high fantasy/epic fantasy novel, the fourth book in the critically acclaimed The Underland Chronicles by Suzanne Collins.
It picks up soon after the end of Gregor and the Curse of the Warmbloods.
Ripred introduces Gregor to the now-teenaged Pearlpelt so Gregor can observe "the Bane's" violent instability, and choose to kill him before he ends up in a leadership position.
The next day, he returns to dissuade Ripred, but is instead attacked by the Bane's friends.
Such a flipping great series.
The poor mice :'( *SPOILERS AHEAD*....The bit where a load of mice die gives an image of what gas chambers must've been like during the Holocaust.
Then there is the little 7 year old kid Hazard who became an orphan at the end of book 3, and then he gets this a new friend and potential bond in the form of Thalia.
They have such a great friendship and he's so happy and then it's like Collins goes and kill Thalia off.
*SPOILERS END*I can't wait to see how this series ends.
These are amazing characters and the series is incredible.The biggest difference in this book over the preceding 3 in the series is that Gregor does not know or have a copy of the prophecy that he so heavily plays a role in.
You know it's bad when a giant rat, considered the most cold- hearted creature in all of the underland, does not want to burden you with it.The progression in this story was very different from the first three.
Докато в „Игрите на глада“ имахме свят, който е постоянно на ръба на война, и смъртта е чест гост в живота на героите, в тази поредица имаме жесток сблъсък между защитеното съществуване на „нормалните деца“ – Грегор, Лизи, Буутс – и постоянната смърт, с която се сблъскват жителите на Регалия от най-ранна възраст.Естествено, смъртта слага отпечатъка си най-вече върху живите – отваря нови рани и не позволява на старите да зараснат.
И съм сигурна, че също като с „Игрите на глада“, Колинс ще ме държи в напрежение до последното изречение на петата книга – „Грегор и шифърът на ноктите“.
Mostly, I think, it just felt like a prelude to the final book.
I also like that no clear-cut answer is reached.
I imagine there will be more in the fifth book as well.I found it interesting that Gregor never thinks of Hitler or the Holocaust when he witnesses what happens to the "nibblers" (mice).
I think it's pretty clear that the Bane is Hitler, the other rats are German soldiers, and the mice are Jews.
:(As with the other books in the series, I think it's very interesting that Collins is willing to have very young children go on the adventures.
In fact, I would consider this series to be more violent and have more death, but the majority of it happens between animal species such as bats, rats, and spiders, and then humans.
Various warfare is discussed through different books in the series: biological warfare, genocide, stealing land, starving another people group, etc.Though animals, some of these characters are quite memorable, including the unforgettable Ripred - an uber intelligent and deadly rat.
There is another similarity to THG in that the main character is not a violent person by choice, but is forced into circumstances in order to defend his younger sister, Boots...
کالینز تازه انگار روند کتاب نوشتن دستش اومده و باز خواننده رو در خلسه نگه میداره تا جلد بعد رو هم بخونی. در واقع کتاب چهارم یه داستان کامل نیست بلکه همش یه پیش درامدی به اتفاقاتی هست که در جلد آخر در انتظار گریگور و دنیای زیرزمینی ست.اوایل کتاب یه کم بی نظمی و بهم ریختگی وجود داشت که فکر می کنم مترجم گرامی حسابی داستان رو قاطی کرده بود.
Bence Bot hiç büyümesin, biz onu hep Ge-go derken hatırlayalım.
Actual rating: 2,5/5.
So far this is the most mature and well-formed book in the series.
Characters and story elements have finally begun to mature and pay off.The old contrivances are still there, including childish prophecies, the 'rager' conceit, and dragging a toddler into the most dangerous situations imaginable.
They continue to hold back what could be a pretty cool story.The biggest complaint I have is that the Underlanders, despite having interest in and access to the Overland, never visit or move there.
Let's go above ground and get a few of those 'gun' things we keep hearing about!"However, with only one book left, I will be finishing off this series.
Another good story, lots of conflict and adventure, and fun to read.
There was more friction between the characters, and I felt a little less connected to them.
It did bother me that they again take the pups (kids) into a very dangerous situation, this time through a few poor decisions rather than necessity.Unlike the previous three, this book is unresolved at the end.
The next book will be a continuation of this story rather than the beginning of a new episode.
I am hoping that the last book will continue the Gregor tradition of having a good but reasonable ending.
Gregor and the Marks of Secret is a book I am finding difficult to review. It would be easy to simply say the book was pleasantly engaging and full of the fantastical chaos I crave from the middle-grade genre, but then I would be lying. Granted, the book does feature the aforementioned; at the same time, however, owing to how shrewdly this book evolved into an increasingly dark storyline I was left agape! That said, I greatly appreciated the thought-provoking themes and allegorical representa
No, the gnawers won’t care who he is or what he does if he brings them revenge.”It behooves to say that this passage reminded me exceedingly of Donald Trump and the toxic rhetoric he is spewing ― a sort of “American retribution” if you will, for American’s who “have been starved too long;” thus, gnawers American’s don’t care who he is or what he does so long as he deals out some sort of reckoning.+ The story evoked more emotional response than the previous books and I really enjoyed how the overall premise emerged into more climatic conditions ― the Bane steps into a tyrannical role spreading radical nationalism, there is widespread pandemic in the Underland caused by atrocious acts of genocide, a young queen who is not well versed in the political scheme of things steps into a pivotal role by declaring war on Regalia’s enemies.+ What made Gregor and the Marks of Secret amazing, in my perspective, was how devoted the book was to developing Luxa’s and Gregor’s character arcs; and why wouldn’t they be?
Усещането, което остава след осъзнаването за това, което всъщност се случва, не е на ужас – или поне не на онзи, който те обзема при прочитането на нещо страшно; а по-късно отминава, защото си казваш „това е измислица”, дори не и онзи, който „ти изправя косите”.
И в началото, преди да осъзнае какво се случва в действителност, човек има чувството, че историята върви бавно, мудно, почти скучно, дори често се връща назад, защото се пита: „Какво точно се случи сега?” Всъщност, повече от всичко друго, тази книга е подготовка за финала на поредицата, и е изпълнена с безкрайно трупащо се напрежение, което не приключва с края на книгата.
Yes, there`s more death than we could count for the last three ones, but still, I`m missing all the times when Gregor would try to pick up the sword to kill those who attacked his group.
Starting to swerve more to reality, accounting on Gregor`s would be last mission as Overlander and leaving the Underland forever.
The kind of age where the blades wouldn`t felt from his grip anymore..Only Boots should stay two forever though.Still hate the method that Sandwich was using though..Too overused in this one series..Other than that, love the whole thing.Errr...Not sulking anymore.A good read!NUff said~
Shortly what I have to say about Gregor and the Marks of Secret:Like I've enjoyed the other parts of this series, I really enjoyed this one, too.
Suzanne Collins' writing style is gorgerously vivid and I love it.
Having different kinds of characters, all the different animals, is fun and refreshing.
I still think that Ripread is like another version of Haymitch, both are these crumpy mentors.
That's propably why I love Ripread so much.
:D I think Gregor is a great hero and very likable.
Luxa is this great, strong female character and ery admirable, but she can be so annoying at times!
Und was für einen, denn die Autorin präsentiert einem hier eine grandiose Mischung aus Abenteuer, Überlebenskampf und der ernsten Thematik des Krieges, die in diesem Band noch erwachsener dargestellt wird als zuvor.Ungelogen, Suzanne Collins zeigt nicht nur in ihrer bekannteren Reihe Die Tribute von Panem, sondern auch hier, wie intensiv sie sich mit dem Kriegsthema beschäftigt und wie viel ihr daran liegt, die Figuren mit den Auswirkungen davon zu konfrontieren.
I am reading the series with my 12 year old.
We are really enjoying the series.
However, I was vaguely dissatisfied with the ending.
This time the adventure didn't end.
The horror of the mice being poisoned also got to me.
5/1/10Finished reading this with my youngest and started the 5th right away.
I told him I would read to him this morning, if he got up before I went to work, since he didn't want me to stop last night.
So, I had to read for 5 minutes this morning too.
"well, that takes the cake." -mrs cormaci"...now it's a little more real than i was counting on." -mrs cormacip8: it was inhabited by giant talking animals -- roaches, bats, rats, spiders, and a whole slew of others -- and a race of pal-skinned, violet-eyed people who had built a beautiful stone city called regalia.
Give me more!!! I love Suzanne Collins and her writing style is awesome. This book was a fast read, and I can't wait to get my hands on the last book of the series. She just loves leaving you hanging. I really enjoy that the characters are so likable, and seem so realistic. I can't wait until my kids are old enough to enjoy this series.
This is by far the best in the series so far! The writing style is the same, but the story is so much deeper. Not as dependent on the inevitable prophecy as the others, although of course it's there! But the characters are maturing, and the historical allusions are powerful. Gotta go get the last installment!
I liked this better than book 3 as the plot progressed more, but it's still not entirely living up to it's potential. It's main problem, IMHO, is that the protagonist keeps pulling his 2 year old sister along on ridiculously dangerous missions. It worked for the first 2 books, but then it started to get a bit hard to believe that events force him to bring her along over and over again.
This installment is a little different as Gregor and Luxa defy the adults and strike out on their own. Needless to say, it doesn't go well. Exceptionally powerful and difficult themes for a MG book.
So every week Gregor goes down to the Underland the have his echolocation lessons with Ripred.
But at Hazard's birthday party Luxa recieves the crown she gave the nibblers, and she told them to send it back to her is they were ever in trouble.
So first Luxa and Gregor sneak out of Regalia to go to the jungle and see what is going on with the nibblers.
But then Ripred told him why so he went back to Regalia got what he was going to need for war and then he heard the trumpets go off for the warning of war.
Simply put, this addition to the Underland Chronicles suffers from Middle Book Syndrome. All I can say for it is that it sets the stage for the rest of the series. That and I saw most of the twists coming without really trying. That’s about it.  Hogwarts House Sorting  This is how I sorted characters of this book based on my observations and personal opinion. I only sorted the characters I know enough about to sort. Luxa — 100% GryffindorGregor — Hufflepuff or Gryffindor, I’m up for debateBoots — HufflepuffRipred — RavenclawTemp — Gryffindor
La cuarta entrega de "las crónicas de las tierras bajas", un libro repleto de acción, guerras entre reinos, alianzas por tal de sobrevivir, traiciones por la espalda, intriga que te obligará a leer sin parar, el desarrollo de los pesonajes es extraordinario, muchos diálogos y exhaustivas descripciones sádicas, las consecuencias de una guerra contada desde la primera persona, sufrimiento y angustia por todos lados, ¿de verdad soy el único que piensa que ésta saga no está hecha para un público infantil-juvenil?¡Hay que leer la última parte!
Up way too late to finish this one, but this volume took me from thinking this was a good series to thinking it's a great one. I'm do glad I decided to finally finish the series, and am much more eager to get to the next installment than I have been at the end of the others.
4.5
I love this book series! :)
I'm still impressed with the complexity and emotion in this series, and Gregor is still a great character.
3.5 stars. Great continuation of the series.
