https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/8970727-anno-dracula
I found myself randomly thinking about this book today (as I’m wont to do, though my random thoughts generally tend to trend in the direction of Ghostbusters quotes, the deliciousness of Slurpees, or marveling over how weevils wobble BUT THEY DON’T FALL DOWN!), and what I was thinking was how frustrating it is that books don’t always find as big an audience as they deserve.
But, you should reconsider your jams if that’s the case.I suggest grape.
Or is that jelly?
What’s the difference between jam and jelly?
In Newman's Victorian England, the hunt is on for the murderer known as "Silver Knife" until he is given a new moniker upon receipt of anonymous letters signed "Jack the Ripper." Turning the killing spree of Jack the Ripper into a hate crime against vampires is brilliant, but instead of being the axis of the book's action it serves only as a loose framework.
Charles rejects the idea of becoming a vampire, shows up everywhere looking handsome and refined, and, for reasons that are murky at best, is asked to begin looking into the Jack the Ripper case because of his unique skill set (of which he basically has a silver sword concealed in a cane).
a real struggle as I was assaulted by endless character introductions who flit in & out of the story for the first 100 pages, with endless descriptions of what they're doing & their world but with very little dialogue, interaction & character building.....
It jus didn’t as I read a further 25 pages which contained only 2 pages of dialogue & interaction with other characters & so sorry this isn’t for me.
If the world building had been good I would have ventured forth having put the time in but it was so dry I found myself drifting near everytime I started reading this one.....1 star as I actually hated it & found myself Zzzzzzzzz.........
Dracula, Jack the Ripper, Queen Victoria, Oscar Wilde, Mycroft Holmes and the Diogenes Club, Doctor Jekyll, Dr Moreau, Fu Manchu, Bill Sykes, Rupert of Hentzau, John Merrick, Gilbert & Sullivan, The Invisible Man: the game to play here is ‘spot how many Victorian references the exquisitely moustachioed Kim Newman can cram into ‘Anno Dracula’; although the real question is – as always in these cases –can he make them congeal into a book that matters?I’ve meant to read ‘Anno Dracula’ for such a long time.
Jack the Ripper is still a Thing, only this time he's killing newly-made vampire whores (which means we get to have a bit of bodice-ripping, check that one off your list!), and our two broadly-speaking heroes, a Victorian Gentleman Of Some Distinction, and a Vampire Lady-Elder Who Even After Six Centuries Still Looks Sixteen, can go about detecting.
Inside Anno Dracula is the story I really wanted to read, set in a nightmarish twisting of Victorian London, and really dealing with the conceit of vampirism and an overblown climate of fear sparked by the few deranged actions of a Ripper-like serial killer, shattering their delusions of immortality.
Murderers kept us apart."Not the opening line, but it would have been a good one (it actually comes much later)!This is probably quite a good book if this is your thing, but it's not mine, so I abandoned it.
The narrator is one such refugee, on a ship to Japan.
The Emperor has decreed that there are no vampires in Japan, so those they do have live in a secure town, not unlike a leper colony.
There is historical (and imagined historical) colour, plenty of rich language, sometimes crass exposition...
But there was plenty of Halloween stuff in shops and restaurants, so I don't think that was a major factor.
I've DNF'ed this book at 20%. Gave it a good shot, just not enough action and too much fluff.If I was going to rate it (against policy) it was running at 3 stars, but I don't have time in my life to read anything that's not running at 4 stars by 20% in.Now - it's time to find a magic sword, open a Warren and war with a god - it's off to Malazan.
If only he had put a little more faith in his own creations and felt less need to lean quite so heavily on his metafictional scaffolding, you feel that this could have been wildly successful.As it is I still enjoyed myself much more than some critics here seemed to – though other books have done this kind of thing better, most of them came later and looked back to Anno Dracula when they did it.
I'm pretty sure I haven't read Dracula either, though I've seen plenty of film versions of it.The twin premise here is that Dracula was not defeated at the end of Bram Stoker's novel, and that he existed in the same world as many other fictional characters.It's hard to mention that second bit without thinking of Alan Moore's later League of Extraordinary Gentlemen.
When he does take centre stage, the wait was worthwhile - Newman's Dracula is utterly terrifying.Overall, this is a much more plot-driven book than you might expect, and, though the mood of fear, oppression and decay is kept at a high pitch, every word compels the reader to keep turning the pages.
In fanfiction, Dieudonné would certainly be labeled a Mary Sue, and Beauregard is kept from Gary-Stu-ism by a mildly creepy engagement to his dead wife’s cousin.In the story, the Jack the Ripper killings are reconfigured to be murders of vampire prostitutes, and though the reader knows the killer’s identity, the main characters’ search for the killer drives the plot.
But Anno Dracula is, in my opinion, clearly a work of fanfiction (alternate-universe crossover with original characters), and its author as well as the people who recommended it to me most highly are all men.
I found this confusing and disjointed. There was too much Victorian name dropping . It had many elements of Victoriana and Steampunk that I have enjoyed previously, but unfortunately this particular effort did not work for me.
ANNO DRACULA is a wild ride through an alternate version of Victorian London. There are more famous characters here than you can shake a stick at, and somehow Newman pulls this off ingeniously. One of the most original vampire tales you will find. Funny, smart, and weird, ANNO DRACULA is just a good time read...
I remember reading this back when vampires were the rage. Didnt really float my boat. Felt like Newman was attempting to add a billion fictional and historical characters just for the sake of it. Well written novel though.
$1.99 on October 12, 2017 - US Amazonhttps://www.amazon.com/Anno-Dracula-K...
This modern classic a New take on Dracula that has even got Sherlock Holmes in it.
This a what if ........Queen Victoria marries Dracula hail King Of The Vampires the original hemophiliacThis dark creepy re working of Bram Stoker's classic book but with what if twist that make your hair curl  Newman has now done five books in this series from WWI to Japan to Pop musical.
He also .has number of other books such as Making Professor Moriarty into the hero & Holmes the villain This the same here Dracula Is the hero & Queen Victoria his lover.
1888 London, and Dracula is hanging out with Queen Victoria, while in Whitechapel, prostitutes are dying strange bloody deaths...It's obvious that the author had a lot of fun writing this, and I had just as much reading it. Historical fact mixed with Newman's particular sense of whimsy and walk on parts from fictional characters from the Victorian era, it's a tremendous mixture. The ending comes a bit too quickly, and old Drac becomes a bit of a comic parody of a vampire lord, but all in all I lovd it.
This is a somewhat strange book, but it presents an interesting "What if".
The premise is that Dracula won and took over England.
Instead of using just historical characters, Newman brings in famous Victorian fictional characters as well (most notably in reference to Sherlock Holmes).
This is risky because it makes two sets of fictional characters (Newman's own and those character he borrows) as well as real historical figures.
It works because Newman has done his research, not only in terms of the literature (you can tell he has read and thought about Dracula, but in terms of history.
In 1885, Count Dracula came to London to spread vampirism into the heart of Victorian England. But in this retelling of (literary) history, Van Helsing did not defeat Dracula; rather, Dracula succeeded, marrying Queen Victoria and becoming Prince Consort. Now, in 1888, vampires fill positions of powerbut also the streets of Whitechapel, where a murderer is killing and mutilating young vampire prostitutes. The attempt to catch him brings together a upper class adventurer named Charles Beauregard
A clever concept that intertwines alternate history with horror and includes many familiar faces (including, of course, Jack the Ripper, known here as the Silver Knife), this is a promising political intrigue enrichened by vampires that, unfortunately, falls flat.
Although the horror is indeed gruesome, the plot is detailed, and the vampires are skillfully conceived, the book's premise is impossible to believe and the writing style is cheap at best (and desperately in need of an editor at worst).
4.5 stars.
This was a very well thought out and very original novel (which is saying a lot for a book about Dracula and vampires).
Super plot and great characters, together with the interweaving of both historic and literary figures make this a very worth while read.
As good as the rest of the novel is, the final 30 pages and the description of Dracula and his "court" is ABSOLUTELY AMAZING (and brilliantly conceived) and brings this novel to the level of a MUST READ!!!Nominee: World Fantasy Award for Best Novel (1993)Nominee: Bram Stoker Award for Best Novel (1994)Nominee: Locus Award for Best Horror/Dark Fantasy Novel (1994)
This was interesting at time but had too many characters, creating confusion at some parts. At least it did for me. I doubt I’ll read any more in this series.
This was a book I found at a used book store.
The description on the back read basically that van helsing failed to kill Dracula and he'd become the consort of Queen Victoria.
Oh and Jack the Ripper is involved.Any story that involves Jack the Ripper AND vampires, I am so there.
This was an amazing book.
I would love to find the following books in the series as I loved the characters, both original and literary cameos.
it was a wonderful blend and I've found I enjoy books that do that.If you can find this in a used book store GRAB IT!
That he has to remove vital organs and mutilate the bodies to bring on a true death just means that Dr. Seward has become Jack the Ripper.(This isn't a spoiler, by the way; this all takes place in the first chapter of the book.)From that point forward, Newman begins including historical vampire figures, as well as many, many fictional vampires.
He includes some annotations at the end of the novel to give hints at who the fictional vampires are and who created them, and also gives some insight into how he developed the story.
Every chapter by the Ripper tells not only what drives him, but also gives an account of the events following Dracula's arrival in England.Charles Beauregard, an agent of the Diogenes Club, and a vampire Geneviève Dieudonné are on the Ripper's trail and through these two and a couple of other characters Newman paints a picture of this horrifying new London.The characters are colourful and most of them are multidimensional.
Kostaki's character, at least, makes this less obvious and evens the scales a bit, especially with Lord Godalming and Penelope on the other side.This is one of the most disgusting depiction of Vlad Tepes I've ever read and as much as I don't like the disservice Bram Stoker did to the man (Kim Newman even went a step further), I really enjoyed this book.
When it comes to Anno Dracula, I think the answer, sadly, is yes.According to the Wikipedia page, Kim Newman managed to fit in something like 99 fictional references and 30 some odd historical references on top of any original characters the book gave us.
Van Helsing and his group were the only things that were preventing Dracula's hold on England?
When you have so many characters clomping around in a book, no matter how small the mention of it, the ability to care grows rather thin.And can I just ask - was 127 pages of extra stuff in the back of the book really necessary?
Here’s another really cool vampire book out there that you won’t see unless you get really lucky at the used bookstore: Kim Newman’s Anno Dracula.
Imagine a world where the Fearless Vampire Hunters failed and Dracula survived.
Now imagine that the Romanian Count became the Prince Consort to the widowed Queen Victoria.
The sudden high profile of vampires (many of whom you’ve met before) draws hundreds of the undead to England, creating a whole new class system.
In the midst of all of this class upheaval, a madman begins murdering the vampire prostitutes of Whitechapel.
It’s a terrific read, so start haunting your favorite used bookstore now.
And now mix in all the historical vampire characters from various authors.
it's just a well-balanced mishmash of alternate history.But since it's a novel full of spies and people (warm and cold) with hidden agendas, you'll have to stay focused on all the characters involved, otherwise it may get confusing at times (especially if you don't know them from their original books and therefore don't know their motives or modus operandi).
It's a thick book and I can imagine someone disinterested in politics may find it a bit dragging at times so consider that before opening it.
What if Van Helsing and Co. failed to stop Count Dracula from invading England?
What if Count Dracula managed to marry the widowed Queen Victoria and in turns the vampires now became the new ruling class?
Still, this book manages to be entertaining and wildly imaginative, plus the ending is satisfying.
LOLPlus I am not sure if the author knows the differences between the Western vampires and the Chinese Jiangshi, which are a bit closer to zombie than to vampire.
Anyway the Chinese brand of 'vampires' is intriguing, to say the least.
Trash/pulp concept (Jack the Ripper vs.
Dracula!) brought to levels of near genius.
A nightmare retelling of the Victorian era with everything you would want from a novel; romance, intrigue, plots and counterplots, political skullduggery, social critique, great characters, and an encyclopedia of literary in-jokes.
The book is a tour of Victorian ideas and characters (whether real or plucked the back pages of literature).
The vampire culture is fully realized and interesting.
Fans of Alan Moore’s From Hell and League of Extraordinary Gentlemen will nod their heads in approval and realize where he must have gotten some ideas from.
I happened upon this book at a book sale and got it really cheap. I really loved how the author mixed historical facts into the fiction. This book had all of my favorite things: Victorian London, Jack the Ripper, Count Dracula, sex, intrigue and action! What a great roller coaster ride for the imagination.
Having heared nothing but good reviews of this book, I was not at all disappointed when I finally managed to get my hands on a copy.
Kim Newman manages to mix real events, fiction of his own devising and existing fictional elements with aplomb.
Fans of horror/nineteenth century fiction will have fun spotting the cameos from real and fictional figures, some more obscure than others.
It's clever, fun and rich - although perhaps it could be argued there are so many elements crammed in at the expense of depth.
There's more than a hint of Hammer-horror gothic Victoriana to the setting, it's a self-aware book that's not ashamed of being pulp fiction.
