https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/722367.Falconer
Σε καμία περίπτωση δεν αισθάνθηκα πως όλη η πλοκή και η εξέλιξη του βιβλίου διαδραματίζεται ανάμεσα σε καταδικασμένες υπάρξεις μέσα σε μια φυλακή.
Και ενώ ο καθηγητής έγκλειστος πλέον και νοσταλγός της ελεύθερης δυστυχίας του διατείνεται πως:«Δεν αγαπώ,δεν αγαπιέμαι,και θυμάμαι την παραζάλη της αγάπης μονάχα αμυδρά»,λίγο αργότερα μας εξιστορεί την ομοφυλοφιλική σχέση του με έναν συγκρατούμενο και πασχίζει να μας πείσει τα πρωτόγνωρα που βιώνει μέσα απο αυτήν.
Ωστόσο αξίζει να σημειωθεί- κι αυτό είναι το μόνο πλεονέκτημα του βιβλίου- πως καταδύεται στην ανθρώπινη ψυχή μέσα απο τα παραληρήματα του Φάραγκατ και χαράζει βαθιά με την πένα του ένα κειμενο ρεαλιστικό με χαίνουσες πληγές τις έννοιες ζωής,θανάτου,μίσους,αδιαφορίας,αποξένωσης,εγωισμού και ματαίωσης.
This is the third fourth time I've read Falconer. It's a remarkable and perfect novel. It's one sentence following the next of words that are exactly right for the moment they appear on the page, until you get to the most beautiful, hard-earned, elegiac ending of all time. The above might be hyperbole. Not very much hyperbole, though.
Falconer Correctional Facility certainly sounds dreary and no place I’d want to spend any time, but it doesn’t seem nearly as bad as many fictional prisons.
In a typical prison story he’d be fresh meat, but the worst thing that happens to him in Falconer is getting his watch stolen and a bad episode of methadone withdrawl.
He falls in love with another inmate and has some tense moments when a neighboring prison has an Attica style riot and hostage situation that makes the Falconer guards nervous, but that’s about it.This is a curiously ‘meh’ story to me.
Curious book. I'd never thought Cheever would write his prison novel.Not so much of a plot here, so much as there is an evolution of characters. Sumptuous prose style, only very rarely boring. You'd expect a prison novel to be about freedom, and it is, but it's nimbly done.

A novel of bracing honesty, above all.
I've heard  Falconer described as a tale of redemption, but frankly I found little evidence of transformation in Farragut himself.
He is an egoïste in the latter part of his life, whose tastes and desires are fully formed and which he has no intention to change, though in Falconer he must learn to live with infrequent satisfaction.
well, a Philip Roth protagonist.) Yes, there are themes of violence, the inhumanity of imprisonment, &c., but mostly there is Farragut's grappling with his past, and emerging unapologetically, in the sensory deprivation of the penitentiary.
Το πιο δυνατό βιβλίο που διάβασα φέτος. Οι λέξεις δεν περισσεύουν στον Τσίβερ. Γράφει σαν να κόβει με το νυστέρι, βαθιά και με ακρίβεια, την ύπαρξη, τις διαπροσωπικές σχέσεις, την κοινωνική συνθήκη. Είναι σκληρός, οικονόμος και φλυαρεί μόνο όταν η σκηνή το επιβάλει. Η φυλακή είναι το εργαστήριο για να απλώσει τα υλικά του και να συνθέσει ένα έργο που μιλά για την ελευθερία όχι απαραίτητα ως αγαθό αλλά περισσότερο ως λύτρωση από την ανθρώπινη υπόσταση. Καλή μετάφραση αλλά θέλω πολύ να διαβάσω το επόμενο Τσίβερ στα αγγλικά.
Farragut, a university professor and drug addict who is serving time in Falconer State Prison is the central figure of the novel, he is an otherworldly guy for whom life has been a series of seminars and skiing trips.
Cheever leads us through a series of bizarre scenarios to Farragut's eventual redemption.
Cheever is masterful in his narrative flow which allows us to gradually glimpse into the mind and memory of Farragut and understand his mother, father, older brother, wife, and son.
We gradually understand Farragut but Cheever never tries to make us like Farragut or take his side against the world.
“Falconer”, escrito em 1977, é o último romance de John Cheever e por muitos considerado a sua obra-prima.É um livro tão duro quanto belo, límpido na sua crueza, humano e impiedoso.Parece-me revelador o que a filha de John Cheever, Susan Cheever, afirma sobre a fase final da vida do pai, fase esta que coincide com a escrita de “Falconer”: "For me, the end of his life is triumphant.
He stops drinking.
He writes what I think is his best book [Falconer, a novel about a drug addict, serving time for the murder of his brother, who has an affair with another prisoner ].
um livro aceitável, uma boa prosa, mas com imensos altos e baixos. passagens interessantes contrastam com outras excessivamente modorrentas e mal rematadas. Cheever não é mau, mas esperava um pouco mais.
Sembra un romanzo autobiografico, preciso, chiaro, non vi sono esitazioni, si ha l’impressione che l’autore scriva di cose che conosce bene.
Sembra che l’autore relazioni l’esperienza fatta da un amico che lo mette al corrente in un’unica seduta, in un intenso pomeriggio, senza dovizia di particolari ma badando solo all’essenziale.
Sono giornate, mesi di vita in carcere di assassini, di uomini dimenticati, quasi nessuno ha più un nome, ma solo soprannomi e numeri.
A fine lettura si rimane con l’amaro in bocca, quasi a dire che siamo tutti uguali, che molto dipende dalla maggiore o minore fortuna che ognuno di noi incontra nella vita, dalla famiglia in cui si è allevati, dalle esperienze che ognuno, a volte, è costretto a vivere.

3,5*. Μου φάνηκε πολύ "κλασικό" αμερικανικό μυθιστόρημα (με την καλή έννοια). Επίσης, είχε κάποιες σκηνές συγκλονιστικές. Αλλά έχοντας διαβάσει το "Μισώ τα πρωινά" του Ρουιγιάν [https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2...] με αντίστοιχο θέμα, το οποίο ήταν συγκλονιστικό στο 90% του, δεν έπαθα και πλάκα, ενώ άλλοι φίλοι το θεωρούν ως ένα από τα καλύτερα βιβλία που έχουν διαβάσει.
Saul Bellow called Falconer elegant, pure, and indispensable.
John Updike said it gives us back our humanity.
Newsweek calls it a masterpiece.
I would also like to sum it up just as succinctly, but I don't know how to spell that farting noise you can make with your armpit.
Ezekial Farragut is a wealthy upper-class heroin addict imprisoned in Falconer Prison for killing his brother.
The narrative shifts back and forth between the day-to-day realities of prison life (which seem to aim for Kafkaesque but land on cliched) and Farragut's internal monologue, which is both self-pitying and deadly dull.
I give it two stars for the elegance of the prose, but grudgingly.
"Farragut, Farragut, why is you a addict?" To me FALCONER is not just a prison novel, but a great American novel.
Its themes are not always easy to take but in my opinion, it's a must-read among 20th Century American novels.
John Cheever, writing out of the pain of his own life, speaks of fidelity, mortality and captivity, and sets his story in a fictional Upstate New York penitentiary in the post-Attica era.
Now he's a drug addict and an inmate in Falconer Correctional Center in upstate New York (think: Sing Sing or Attica).
It also speaks clearly about the American 1970s from which it sprang.
So here, then, is a John Cheever's great penal novel.
Also in the book's favor is the fact that it is written in Cheever's marvelously fluid prose which, unlike, say, Hemingway's chop-chop or Henry James's clockspring sentences, encourages the eye to glide across the page and seems to pour itself into the mind.In summary, I felt quite a bit short of feeling "the ecstatic confidence of finishing a masterpiece" that Newsweek promises with its blurb on the empurpled back cover of the edition I possess.
While I enjoyed Cheever's writing (as a thing in itself), the subject matter of this particular work may be a bit "over-the-top" for more reserved / conservative / thematically sensitive readers (or somewhat age-inappropriate for folks less than 16-18).
Clearly, Cheever is a masterful short-story writer...
my only "complaint" (more of an observation, really) from a construction oriented perspective is this: Falconer feels like several interesting short-stories cobbled together.
By using prison as an apparatus / explanation for fusing these aberrant stories/people together, Cheever has free license to do what he does best; tell us interesting short stories rife with palpable details and descriptions.
Ήξερα ότι είναι στη λίστα των Times με τα 100 καλύτερα βιβλία από το 1923 μέχρι σήμερα κι ότι γενικά θεωρείται ένα από τα αριστουργήματα της αμερικανικής λογοτεχνίας του προηγούμενου αιώνα και ήθελα εδώ και καιρό να το διαβάσω.
Από την ολιγοσέλιδη, αλλά διαφωτιστικότατη εισαγωγή της ελληνικής έκδοσης μαθαίνουμε ότι ο κεντρικός ήρωας Ιεζεκιήλ Φάραγκατ είναι το λογοτεχνικό alter ego του Τσίβερ κι ότι το βιβλίο γράφτηκε μέσα σε χρονικό διάστημα δέκα μήνών μετά την παραμονή του σε κέντρο απεξάρτησης από το αλκοόλ.
More than forty years ago, Joan Didion wrote an important and slightly defensive review of John Cheever's"Falconer"(https://www.nytimes.com/1977/03/06/ar...).
Didion regards Ezekial Farragut, the central character of "Falconer" as a powerful and extreme expression of Cheever's concern with just such persons.
I have great respect for Didion, one of the great prose writers our time, but I confess to being precisely the type of reader she excoriates in her review.
The problem is I don't find Farragut particularly interesting or engaging.
Oh well, I won't go on but do encourage readers to turn to Didion whose review, as one can probably tell from my ramblings, is provocative!
Há uma forma "americana" de escrever, é uma ideia muito empírica, mas os escritores do final do séc XX, como Cheever, Donald Ray Pollock, James Salter, David Vann, etc... retratam de forma semelhante a pobreza, a tristeza, a violência, dor e crueza da América.John Cheever é um deles, é uma escrita por vezes poética, mas muito dura. Excepcional
There is something both unsettling and beautiful about this compact Cheever novel. A novel of punishment and redemption, Falconer is also a story of addiction, of confinement, of an introspective man moving from his isolated past to his very human present. It is hard to compare Cheever's style to anyone, but there were moments where I felt I was floating in the same literary river as O'Connor, Dostoevsky, Chekhov, and Percy. His prose is amazing, his imagination is sharp, and the depth of his soul-searching is absolutely sublime.
This isn’t your typical correctional facility; in fact Falconer Correctional Facility is very boring, there is nothing happening, just a bunch of lonely men trying to make it through their sentences. No brutality, no abuse and the only riot that happens in the book is just as boring as the rest of prison life. The main character; Farragut is convicted of murdering his brother; he is from a formally rich family and a drug addict. The whole book is about him and his desire for methadone; nothing else really happens.
A relatively light read about a prisoner, his life behind bars and the thoughts and feelings of convicted fellons who are forced to live imprisoned. It has some deep lines and some very well constructed moments. I feel like I should've read this in english, I might have enjoyed it more.
Χωρίς να είναι κουραστικό και φλύαρο και χωρίς να έχουμε έντονη δράση και περιπέτειες, με αφορμή τον εγκλεισμό του οπιομανούς και δολοφόνου Ιεζεκιήλ Φάραγκατ, γνωρίζουμε έναν έναν τους τροφίμους και τον αρχιφύλακα του ιδρύματος, τις συνθήκες διαβίωσης, την καθημερινότητά τους, τον απόηχο από τη ζωή στον έξω κόσμο.
Πραγματικά, σε όλο το βιβλίο ένιωσα ακριβώς αυτό: δεν έχει σημασία γιατί μπήκε μέσα ο πρωταγωνιστής, ο συγγραφέας προτίμησε να μη βαρύνει το κείμενο με ΟΛΟ το παρελθόν του Φάραγκατ, τα αίτια και τα αιτιατά.
This book is both inventive and conventional; it would even make a pleasant beach read.
John Cheever effectively manages both a broad lyrical range and--do I dare say it?--a plot!
Where Cheever excels is where he is able to wrap his mind around all the mental games we play while at the same time making the games at once serious and awkward.
This book is nothing short of a masterpiece, and in all honesty--if it were solely for plot--it's not one I would pick-up, read the jacket, and say, 'this sounds good...' Fortunately, I began instead with the first sentence, and couldn't put it down.
Farragut acidentalmente, ou não, mata o irmão. É condenado e enviado para Falconer.Durante o seu tempo de reclusão, recorda o seu passado, vive o seu presente e conquista o seu futuro.Um belíssimo romance sobre a paixão, o desejo e o amor. “Farragut desenvolveu uma sensibilidade sobrenatural ao simples chiar dos ténis do amante. Havia noites em que lhe parecia que a vida dependia desse som.”Mas, acima de tudo, um livro sobre a maior ambição do ser humano: a Liberdade. “Levantou bem a cabeça, endireitou as costas e afastou-se num passo firme. Rejubilai, pensou, rejubilai.”
I'm glad I read Falconer, I admire the writing, but I don't think I will want to reread this book.
Cheever masterfully wrote men (and I do mean men, not women) in their most degraded state.
Degraded men stuck in a cage with nothing to lose have nothing to do but talk.
And talk, they do.
I grew up near Sing Sing, which I'm guessing is the model for Falconer.
Cheever, who lived near me, may have even been an acquaintance of my parents; my mother Edna Robinson revered his writing.
Next, I'll read his short stories.
Qué gran libro. Redondísimo. La prosa de Cheever es demasiado bella también.Me gustó mucho el personaje de Jody, sentí enamoramiento por él.Este libro lo leímos en el club de lectura al que voy y me encantó darme cuenta de las interpretaciones distintas que distintas personas pueden hacer según sus biografías. La idea de la adicción funciona como una metáfora muy transversal.
In genere mi piacciono i romanzi "minori" anni '50 (da Wallace a Buck, passando per Bromfield e una pletora di americani che trovo nei reminders Medusa), ma questo ha ambizioni più alte della semplice narrazione del momento storico sfigato di Farragut.
Oppiomane fratricida che viene paragonato nella postfazione di Fofi ad un novello FSFitzgerald (non come scrittore, ma come personaggio), cosa che mi spinge a tirar giù dagli scaffali FSF e rileggerlo, giusto per rifarmi la bocca con qualcosa che capisco, e mi fa godere i neuroni mentre lo leggo.
E fra tutti i motivi per cui leggo quello di sentirmi stupida al momento non è entrato in classifica.
Depois dos dois livros de contos de John Cheever, chegou a vez de ler um romance seu, aliás o último
