https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/77597.Champagne_for_One
Archie is the only person who is convinced he saw murder and he is ready to put his professional reputation at risk to prove it.
His boss Nero Wolfe has to help him as Archie's reputation would undoubtedly affect his own as well:This book made me care about the victim; even more so as I learned her background during the investigation.
Just like for Archie it was almost personal for me.
The rating is 4 stars due this time to a good mystery as well as usual brilliant character interactions.
A young woman is poisoned during a dinner party held annually-- according the terms of the will of an eccentric benefactor--for the "graduates" of a home for unwed mothers. Archie--pinch-hitting as an escort for the the evening--is the only one convinced that the poisoning isn't suicide. Wolfe gets involved--of course. Reluctantly? Of course. Ingeniously plotted, with some unusually vivid characters and scenes. One of the best of the series.
Description: Faith Usher talked about taking her own life and even kept cyanide in her purse.
So when she died from a lethal champagne cocktail in the middle of a high society dinner party, everyone called it suicide—including the police.
But Nero Wolfe isn’t convinced—and neither is Archie.
Especially when Wolfe is warned by four men against taking the case.
Deception, blackmail, and a killer who may have pulled off the perfect crime…it’ s a challenge Nero Wolfe can’t resist.The TV show episode.TR Prisoner's Base (Nero Wolfe, #21)3* The Golden Spiders (Nero Wolfe, #22)3* Champagne for One (Nero Wolfe, #31)3* The Doorbell Rang (Nero Wolfe, #41)
My father believed that, after the Nero Wolfe series, the world had no further need for new mystery novels.
Rex Stout is never crass.Unlike my dad, I haven't read all the Nero Wolfe books, but give me time.
Archie is in top form, as funny and as sexually charged as always.As a gay male reader, I admire how Rex Stout has created an odd yet perfectly believable living arrangement among Wolfe, Archie and Fritz, the chef, and that is that.
An acquaintance of Archie's asks him to fill in for him at a dinner given by the man's rich aunt for some unmarried mothers. One of them dies from poison and Archie is the only one who insists it was murder and not suicide, even though the young woman had often talked about killing herself and she was killed by the same kind of poison she carried around in her purse. As usual, I had no idea who the culprit was. On rereading this, I had to go from 4 stars to 5 - the denoument was so amazing.
I never tire of Archie and Nero.
****.Once you get past the silly plot premise, you soon get wrapped up in a pretty good mystery featuring Nero Wolfe and his private secretary Archie.
His friend has a cold and can’t make it to a party that he was invited to by his aunt.
Four of these young women had been invited to dinner, along with four young men who were to serve as potential prospects for them.
During dinner, it was discovered that one of the women carried a bottle of cyanide pills with her.
He took charge of helping Archie discover what it was that produced his conviction that murder was afoot.
I have to revisited this series some day.4* Black Orchids (Nero Wolfe, #9) 3* Champagne for One (Nero Wolfe, #31) TR Fer-de-Lance (Nero Wolfe, #1) TR The League of Frightened Men (Nero Wolfe, #2) TR The Rubber Band (Nero Wolfe, #3) TR The Red Box (Nero Wolfe, #4) TR Too Many Cooks (Nero Wolfe, #5) TR Some Buried Caesar (Nero Wolfe, #6) TR Over My Dead Body (Nero Wolfe, #7) TR Where There's a Will (Nero Wolfe, #8) TR Not Quite Dead Enough (Nero Wolfe, #10)
But the more I think of it, the more I think this isn't the case at all for somebody like Stout (and, by extension, I suppose for others doing similar things, even within genre fiction).The Nero Wolfe novels are usually pretty predictably plotted (if at times outlandishly plotted in their details).
There's something about the particular way Stout writes the books that makes me want to read them; it is not either the plotting or the depth of characterization; it is something about the interplay of the characters, though, and I suppose it's something about the consistency of that interplay -- which is to say that there's a sense of a distinct style to these novels.

I must have missed it when I first read it, but this might be the best--or most representative--Nero Wolfe novel.
It moves quickly; it features most of the key players, with lots of Saul and Cramer and Fritz; it talks in detail about food and orchids and the layout of the brownstone; it pits Archie and Wolfe against lawyers, the Commissioner, and antagonistic rich people; it fucks with Archie and Wolfe's sexism and gender expectations; and it's an impossible crime problem.
I didn't guess the murderer, but I thought I had, which is always fun.
Lomalukemista kesämökin hyllystä, tätä en varmaan ollut ennen lukenutkaan. Taattua Nero Wolfea, hauska ja viihdyttävä. Ja Archie on NIIN nokkela ja komea ja hyvä tanssimaan!
As always, Nero Wolfe mysteries have a humor and charm unmatched by any other working in the genre. Champagne for One is another in a long list of perplexing mysteries coupled with a most unique protagonist. I never tire of Stout's work.

Rex Stout's Champagne for One comes garnished with an unhealthy dose of cyanide.This outing for Nero Wolfe and his leg man Archie Goodwin doesn't begin with a client.
You see, Wolfe & Goodwin had been hired by Mrs. Robilotti in the past to recover some missing jewelry and she had taken exception to some of Archie's remarks.
She calls and invites Archie to attend the affair--an anniversary dinner held in honor of her deceased husband and featuring an night out for "lucky" young women from the husband's pet charity: Grantham House, a shelter and place of "improvement" for unwed mothers.
Champagne for One is unusual in one respect, though, I don't think I've read a Nero Wolfe mystery before that didn't involve at least some love interest for Archie (not that "love interest" is exactly the right term for Archie's exploits, but it's Nero-Wolfe-period-appropriate).
The truly unimaginable part, though, is the annual social event where the murder mystery begins: a mixer for the "improved" unwed mothers, who are invited to a special dinner at the Grantham's house and paired with four young men chosen to be the girls' "chevaliers." Not a match-making enterprise, just a benevolent attempt to give the girls a fun evening.
I review the first one, "The Mother Hunt"  here .Archie Goodwin, Nero Wolfe's right hand, is invited to sit in for the sick nephew of a very rich woman who sponsors a famous annual charity party for unmarried mothers.
While the police and the hosts of the party maintain that the death is suicide, Archie insists it is murder.
A rich guest of the party, afraid that certain events from his past may influence the police's thinking, hires Nero Wolfe to investigate.I find the plot convoluted, quite clumsy, and the whole story rather implausible.
one of rex stout's better mysteries.
but feel free to prove me wrong.random note: the introduction to this particular edition starts with the following sentence: "I first met Rex Stout sometime in the early 1950s when our daughters were classmates at Oakwood School, a Quaker boarding school in upstate New York." didn't think much about it until i turned the page and realized the intro was written by none other than lena horne!
XD) the more i learn about rex stout's personal life, the more i am astounded and amazed...
Another enjoyable Nero Wolfe adventure, once again Archie gets into some shenanigans and drags Wolfe into it against his will.
Fans of the Hutton/Chaykin series will recognize this as an early episode, and the show is rather faithful to this novel, leaving out only a few brief scenes that only confirm a few things for the detectives - but even with the familiarity from a faithful adaptation, the original story is neither stale nor dull.
It almost drags a bit toward the middle as many Wolfe novels potentially do, but this one does not lag noticeably.
Fun mystery. This was definitely a better introduction to Nero Wolfe for me as the action is more set in "Nero's house and Archie's New York," both of which are celebrated by Lena Horne in her introduction to the book. Ms. Horne, with whom I also share my astrological sign, interestingly noted that "as an astrological Cancerian, I appreciated Nero's nesting instinct," which is certainly more present here than in the lesser Too Many Cooks that served as my ignominious introduction to Rex Stout's iconic detective.
Intricate Plot, Brilliant ReadEver since I started devouring Agatha Christie, I have been on a quest for a decent mystery novel. Rex Stout’s Champagne for One delivers in unexpected ways. It has a great storyline with compelling characters and several clever twists in the story. I found the way the murder was committed novel yet obvious (the latter only one Wolfe explains). If you are into first person narrative from a character as quirky, sassy and endearing as Archie and you love well-crafted tales, then I recommend Champagne for One.
One of my Favorites Nero Wolfe novel. I am reading the series sequentially and this stands in the top 5. The entire series has exceptional writing but this one just blows you away with the prose.There is so much sophistication in the way the entire story is put together.If I was to share this gift of Nero Wolfe with someone, who is yet to explore his heavenly brownstone house with a roof-top garden of orchids, I'll definitely prescribe him 'Champagne for One'
Archie goes to a dinner party as a favor to a friend, and a woman dies of cyanide poisoning.I felt like I should like this book, but I really didn't. The whole "she must have committed suicide just because she talked about it!" schtick was very unbelievable to me, and something about all the suspects and witnesses (and even the victim) just failed to interest me in any of them.
An engaging mystery with a satisfying conclusion. This was a particularly good case that I think will stand up to a re-read on the merits of its construction, but as ever with this series, the real enduring pleasure is the world of Wolfe's brownstone and the characters who make up its extended household. Saul Panzer in particular gets some great scenes in this one, which is always a treat.
An interesting, but not exceptional, Nero Wolfe mystery. The final denouement was a little rushed and the secondary characters (both the innocent and the guilty) were not drawn as well as in some of Rex Stout's other books. That said, this was an enjoyable short mystery which my wife and I read aloud.
On February 2, 2017 I recalled reading a Nero Wolfe mystery many years ago and purchased Stout's first book in the series, Fer-de-Lance, for my Kindle.
I am now on #36 of this entertaining and "satisfactory" reading experience.Champagne for One (Nero Wolfe, #31) is a stand-out example of why I embarked on the journey to read every book in Stout's library.
The author's required repetitive descriptive material is no distraction to my reading enjoyment and attempt to solve the mystery at hand by matching my observation, analytical and logical thinking skills with Wolfe's genius.
I’m developing a love for the style of Nero Wolfe, which means I’ll be looking for the beginning of the series to get them all read. I hate the idea of the likes of Mrs Robilotti treating people as they do, so when they get caught in a dirty deed, & made to pay for it, I really enjoy it. Who is Mrs Robilotti? Guess you’ll have to read it to find out.
With so many red herrings this one went down to the last page. With Archie being a last minute stand in at a dinner for single mothers where a suicide or murder takes place puts him and Wolfe on the case to prove which one.
My first Nero Wolfe novel, Champagne for One was enjoyable, immediately bringing back memories of the wonderful A&E Nero Wolfe Mystery series starring Timothy Hutton and Maury Chaykin from the early 2000's.
Another fun Nero a Wolf mystery- it really kept me guessing as each stone slowly turned!
