https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2088080.Psychiatric_Studies
Having been exposed to Volumes 9i and 9ii of the Collected Works and being challenged by them, I decided to devote some time to the study of Jung while out of school and started to acquire the volumes of the Bollingen series one by one as I read them, starting with Psychiatric Studies.I generally like Jung's earliest professional writings because then he was still excited by developments, such as psychoanalysis, in the field and because then, as a student or intern or resident himself, he had to be concerned about their critical reception.
Until 1903, when he married into a very wealthy family, Jung had to worry about his career and about making money.The most interesting of the essays in this volume is his doctoral dissertation "On So-Called Occult Phenomena." Like so much of his later work, it has an element of dishonesty.
The terms are outdated, but that's part of the charm of this collection of Jung's earliest work, written during the wee hours of the early 1900s, as you can smell the lantern lights, and hear the horses in the streets, and admire the fusty three-piece suits.
Admittedly, one might expect from these titular introductions either tawdry sensationalism or dry writing in opposition to subject matter, but Jung escapes both with nary a glance.
What he has presented instead is a sober-minded exploration of each topic, and somehow no matter how esoteric the subject or exotic the patient, he brings something that seems to apply to me somewhere deep inside and disturbing.
Fascinating case studies by the young Jung, including mediumistic trance, 'manic mood disorder', 'hysterical stupor' and simulated insanity. Paul Christensen
A bit outdated, but still interesting from a historical perspective, also Jung gives some good insight into cases of simulated insanity.
Provides several case studies from ~1900, attempting to answer questions surrounding the existence of the unconscious mind and more specifically its role in driving the behavior of the mental ill. I found it very, very interesting.5 stars with the caveat that this is a collection of papers with a common theme, and lacks the continuity of a single document.
Very interesting to see Jung's earliest writings. I found his Doctoral thesis very enjoyable.
A concise review of case studies most relevant to the pressing psychiatric questions of the time (1900). In this first volume, the assemblers of the Collected Works have succeeded in making accessible Jung's professional monographic contributions to the emerging field of psychiatry in its true historical context.
