https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/135524.Red_Land_Black_Land
I seriously don't want to hear irrelevant personal opinions and interjections such as 'one day I'm going to get that piece of furniture copied' from an author who considers herself an academic Egyptologist.
I read some books late last year, the TTC lectures on ancient history and there is quite a lot that contradicts this author.
The TTC lectures say that there was 80% literacy among women.
You really think that men wrote out shopping lists for the illiterate women to take to the market and thrust at what must have been male traders to read for them?

Naturally enough, like any teenage girl would, I wrote a paper entitled "Rituals of Death in Ancient Egypt." I still wonder what on earth my English teacher must have thought about that one.
I went to visit my grandmother in Miami around the same time (7th or 8th grade) and I remember her taking me to the library and my taking out these huge museum books on Ancient Egypt.
All the old folks came over to find out what I was doing and they must have thought me as strange as my English teacher did.
~14hoursHow to be an ancient Egyptian: all you need to know about clothes, pyramids and papyrus.What a refreshing voice on a dusty subject......Elizabeth Peters writing under her real name and profession as an Egyptologist but the wry voice is unmistakable.
You are literally taken from the birth of an Egyptian to daily life, to occupations and various and sundry countless things that comprised the Egyptian civilization.
There is a large area that is devoted to the in/outs of why death was so important to these people.
What would have been challenging to read at times came to life under the sharply witty, intelligent and vivacious Raver who brings to life Mertz's personality and knowledge.
Believe me, Mertz doesn't pull any punches either.
She reveals the up/downs of life during this time and takes time to mock people who believe they are a reincarnation of an ancient Egyptian.
An excellent, if at times dry, overview of life in ancient Egypt.
Organized from birth to death and afterlife, this is a very good primer on what life was like, how it was lived, and what the norms were likely to have been in ancient Egypt over the centuries.
I was surprised to find that the chapters describing the blend of magic, religion, science, and medicine were my favorite while those retelling the myths and the afterlife were a bit more of a slog for me.
I think what struck me was how these concepts that are disparate in modern Western thinking were mixed together and each used together for practical purposes in ancient Egypt.
The books are adorable Gothic spoofs, but they also manage to pack in a rather impressive amount of information about both Victorian Egyptology and the ancient Egyptians themselves.My expectations for Red Land, Black Land, one of MPM's few nonfiction books, were definitely high.
Red Land, Black Land was originally published in the 1960s, long before Amelia Peabody was a glimmer in MPM's eye.
The other somewhat disappointing aspect actually is simply a ringing endorsement of the Amelia Peabody series: I don't think I actually learned much from this book because MPM managed to fit in so much into the series.While it might not have been as informative as I could have wished, Red Land, Black Land was still a pleasant and amusing read.
I had no doubt that I would thoroughly enjoy yet another book by her.
As opposed to Temples, Tombs & Hieroglyphs: A Popular History of Ancient Egypt, which focused on the chronological history of Egypt and its rulers, Red Land, Black Land is more of a sweeping overview of Egyptian culture.
There are some interesting connections between this volume and the first book in the Amelia Peabody series Crocodile on the Sandbank, which made me smile.
For anyone interested in getting into Egyptology, I would certainly recommend reading first Temples...
and then Red Land...
This is a very informative and fascinating peek into life in ancient times in Egypt.
The author, although a noted Egytology scholar, writes in a sweet, simple converstional style.
She relays touching anecdotes such as the mummified cat of a minor prince with an inscription translating roughly as "Miss Kitty, beloved pet".
She goes into the everyday objects and experiences such as the cosmetic procedures, style of dress (flattering only on very slender people she points out), and the practice of painting the ceilings with clouds and the floors with water scenes.
I've always had a fascination with Egypt, and much more now!
So I loved Barbara Mertz’s Amelia Peabody series, and I thought I would really enjoy this nonfiction book she had written. I loved the conversational style of the text, and the way she approached the topic, but I didn’t really feel like I walked away with anything. Perhaps if I hadn’t studies Ancient Egypt with the kids, I would have gotten more from this book. The information, however, seemed fairly basic and didn’t provide a really unique perspective.
( new book coming out this August) My most favorite series in all the world is her Amelia Peabody series.
Set in Victorian times Amelia Peabody is not your average Victorian English lady.
She is an archeologist who spends most of her time in Egypt, has an umbrella with a steel rod in it so she can bat evil doers over the head with it, she has a tool belt she wears that holds all the necessities for if she is trapped in a tomb or captured by the master criminal.
This series also holds a lot of tongue-in-cheek high-drama humor and dastardly criminals.
Puiki knyga, labai nuosekliai išdėstyta visa senovės Egipto istorija ne akcentuojant faktus, o labiau perteikiant senovės egiptiečių gyvenimą
Some of the reviews of this work criticize it for extraneous comments, but because I love her wit so much, I am willing to forgive her even when she makes occassional ignorant comments in the field of theology.The book is a delightful romp through ancient Egyptian history and culture. I loved every minute of it. Also, the audio book was read by someone who I believe captured her personality very well. I look forward to reading one of the Amelia Peabody books.
Mertz has a pleasant, conversational tone throughout the book that makes it feel more like you’re listening to her describe a personal experience over tea rather than reading a lecture on a time long past.
It was a fun, informative read, and I definitely enjoyed her style of writing.
I was pleasantly surprised to find she is also one of my favorite authors: she writes the fabulous Amelia Peabody series under the pseudonym Elizabeth Peters, which is one I recommend to anyone who enjoys learning more about ancient culture along with some great mysteries.
That said, I didn't much care for this book.
I was glad that it wasn't another "dry" discussion about Pharaoh XYZ and Middle Kingdom ABC but IMHO the author was flippant and seemed to throw facts to the reader willy-nilly.
3/4's of the way through the book I was counting pages to see how much more was left to read (a death knell for a book!).
There was some information that I had been unaware of (and was interested to learn) but aside from those all I can truly say is that I did read this book and am moving on to other authors.
Whether you read this text for religious or secular purposes, the information within will be of great help to you.
It's very detailed, and the author is quite willing to condemn unfortunate thought processes like eurocentrism, pyramidism, and more.
She is the stereotypical high and mighty atheist (or so she seems in this book.
I don't know her actual beliefs, of course) and often portrays religious people as idiots.
Still, it would be a mistake to give this book the miss.
She also provides a reading list at the back of the book, an invaluable resource to draw from.
Barbara Mertz, better known as the creator of the Amelia Peabody series under her pen name Elizabeth Peters, sets out to show us that the ancient Egyptians loved life. It's true, we mostly associate them with a pretty serious cult of the dead. Mummies, tombs, the Book of the Dead and all that. But though they certainly had their eye on death and the after-life, they also loved their children, pets, games, food, and beer. And, no surprise here, given the author's considerable story-telling skills, the book is fun to read -- smart, well written, personable.
An updated classic about daily life in Ancient Egypt which details the lives of slaves, everyday people and kings during the centuries of Egypt's pharonic dynasties. Originally published in 1964, I read the 2004 edition.
Oh, what an amazing book. Mertz is a wry writer, and readily inserts her opinion on not just Egypt, but Egyptology. I learned so much about ancient Egypt and the daily lives of the wealthier people. It also led me to Christie's Death Comes as the End, which I listened to shortly after. I would read Red Land again, as there was so much to take in.
This author has a really fun voice
Fantastic read and very informative and rich on the subject without being dull.
Mertz is one of the best authors on Ancient Egypt. Highly recommended.
A very accessible survey of everyday life in ancient Egypt for the armchair Egyptologist written in a light, wry, conversational tone. Very enjoyable.
Digging down deep into the minutia of the ancient Egyptian day to day.
Now, it is certainly difficult to write a book without bias--and here I am, giving my biased opinion!--but not impossible, and it should be of utmost importance to an Egyptologist conveying the little that survived about that civilization.
Does Mrs. Mertz believe readers are ignorant and cannot make up their own minds if given only facts?
(Consider this: not even "experts" agree and many explanations/views exist to each surviving piece of evidence.) Her book is lavishly punctuated with silly remarks, such as "don't ask me, because I don't know!" At one point she wonders if Nefertiti ever had a bad hair day...
While reminding us firmly that most of the available information is from the ruling or bureaucratic/priesthood classes, Red Land, Black Land is juicy with the odd little facts that personalize the day to day lives, loves, celebrations and griefs of those who composed the nation of Kemet for nearly four thousand years.
"Its an ironic fact that when magic works, it is no longer magic but science."What I love about this book is its excellent prose thanks to an experienced and talented fiction writer.
While the author clearly presents her own point of view, this does not limit her presentation of the material, and she eloquently presents numerous schools of thought.
The author is not a big fan of DNA research, but it was still quite new at the book's publication.
I feel as if I have a better appreciation and understanding for the people of ancient times -- a more sympathetic view of their way of thinking.
I appreciated that she was transparent about her personal biases, and *really* appreciated the dry wit with which she expressed them - I kept quoting particularly entertaining bits to my girlfriend as I read.I also valued her pointed skepticism regarding the more "exotic" and therefore more popular memes about Egyptian culture, such as the recurring idea that killing workers in the name of secrecy was common, and her deflation of those who paint it as stately and formal and unlived - her focus on practicality and on remembering that ancient Egyptians were still *humans,* albeit ones from a radically different culture, was quite refreshing.
Mertz writes her non-fiction egyptology books with the same sense of humor she exhibits in her fiction works, and it was fun to hear her descriptions of the actual history behind the things she writes about in her Amelia Peabody series.
But the ending was great, and the narrator was absolutely perfect for this book (though at times I questioned her pronunciation), and I'm glad to see that she reads Mertz's other non-fiction Egyptology book, Temples, Tombs & Hieroglyphs: A Popular History of Ancient Egypt, which I plan on getting around to before too long as well.
If you are a fan of ancient Egypt, then you must read Red Land, Black Land by Barbara Mertz.
It was pure pleasure to read this book detailing the daily life of ancient Egypt based on the archaeological record.
Mertz approaches the issues in this book with all the scholarly reservations necessary to make her a trustworthy source, while at the same time writing in an informal style that feels like having a conversation with an old friend.
I especially liked the way she wove anecdotes about various archaeologists and their discoveries and writings seamlessly with the historical information.
