https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/28940.Behind_the_Scenes_at_the_Museum
You could though say it’s a gradual debunking of family mythology to find deeper more consequential truths.
What Atkinson does is to lay down first the mythology – often created by parents who don’t want their children to know certain shameful truths – and then slowly peel off that outer crust.
And memory is often shown to reside in the secret history of objects, all of which Atkinson describes and utilises brilliantly as cyphers of more enduring truths than the fabrications created by the adult world for children.
During her life, she often announces herself by calling out “It’s just Ruby!”, but she’s often addressed as “ShutupRuby!” She tells her family’s story in the first person, and mixed with her earliest memories (admittedly a lot earlier than any of mine, or, I daresay, yours) are many other people.
And then a wave of blackness crept slowly across the sky as somebody rolled up the map."I just wish there were a cast of characters and a big family tree, neighbours included, for people like me.
God, I can't even begin to express my depth of loathing for this book. I forced myself through to within about 60 pages of the end, but then I just couldn't bear it any more. I just didn't want to know any more about the vile people in this ridiculous family with all their dark, dirty, entirely predictable secrets. Gaaaah! I left it behind on a plane somewhere. Should have attached a toxic warning label.
Behind the Scenes at the Museum is really a very good book, marred by one gimmick that frustrates me because it's so unnecessary to the story Kate Atkinson is telling.
For the most part, however, I enjoyed this one immensely.
The story is meandering, and weaves back and forth in time, but it was the sort of meander I greatly enjoy.
Note: The rest of this review has been withdrawn due to the recent changes in Goodreads policy and enforcement.
You can read why I came to this decision here.In the meantime, you can read the entire review at Smorgasbook
I wasn’t quite 100% sure about the concept of her being able to describe her life from the point of conception, but I went with the flow and really enjoyed it in the end, particularly the way she talked about what was going to happen to members of her family in the future, dropping little hints to me about their fates which kept me glued to the book.Her story is punctuated by footnotes (in the form of chapters) which go on to describe more of her family history, going right back to her great grandmother Alice, her grandmother Nell and mother Bunty.
The "footnotes" explain things which the characters don't know about their past: the reason for a particular expression on the face of Ruby's great-grandmother in a family portrait, where an heirloom locket comes from, where an ancestor who disappeared actually went to.
Although the tone of the novel is generally light-hearted because of the way Ruby tells her story, most of the events it narrates are extremely sad.
The first of the major weaknesses is that it's very difficult to keep track of all of the characters in each generation.
These footnotes - although non-chronological - provide additional information for certain characters' decisions, and explain some of the mysteries concerning missing relatives or family treasures.With its large cast of characters and extensive timeline, Behind the Scenes at the Museum is also a social history of England in miniature, with the various Lennoxes and their acquaintances standing in for the ordinary people of Britain before, during, and after the War. Although Ruby is a charming and funny narrator, the story she tells is anything but - people make poor choices and suffer the consequences, dreaming of what might have been (such as Ruby's mother, Bunty, who is unhappy in her marriage to George, her father).
З відступами у родинне минуле, бо всі ми складаємося з родинного минулого.Є весь базовий набір Аткінсон, який кочує з роману в роман, і вже як рідний (від того, що пудинг із варенням називається "трупик немовляти", до австралійських буддистів і імен пілотів на дзеркалі в барі "У Бетті").
Себто весь текст здається, що воно все доволі необов'язкове, але якийсь фінальний бантик просто вибиває все повітря з легенів, і сидиш вночі, як дебіл єден, ридаєш від вдячності до всього свого родинного минулого, до всіх знаних і незнаних, зримих і незримих людей, які були з тобою чи до тебе, і з діалогу з якими складається кожен із нас.Бонусом: цей роман містить найкращу сцену весілля (що перетікає у велике побоїще і закінчується трупом), яку я взагалі бачила в літературі :)
Kate Atkinson has written a multigenerational story about a dysfunctional family.
Chapters with Ruby's story moving forward alternate with flashback chapters filling us in on the family history, going back to Ruby's great-grandmother.
It's a family tale of loss, lack of fulfillment, and unhappiness.
However, Atkinson's ironic sense of humor and Ruby's upbeat personality prevent the story from being a dark book.Family secrets are foreshadowed, and slowly revealed.
One of the most heartbreaking secrets comes close to the end of the book.
Atkinson's great gift is the ability to see the comic in tragic situations.
Is this really the same Kate Atkinson that wrote the so-so mystery novel, Case Histories?? What happened there? This was fan-freaking-tastic. Crazy family secrets, history, motherhood, war...I loved it.
I'll try her new book which is a follow up on Life after life, but think I'll skip the rest for now.The Story: Ruby Lennox was conceived grudgingly by Bunty and born while her father, George, was in the Dog and Hare in Doncaster telling a woman in an emerald dress and a D-cup that he wasn't married.
Bunty had never wanted to marry George, but here she was, stuck in a flat above the pet shop in an ancient street beneath York Minster, with sensible and sardonic Patrica aged five, greedy cross-patch Gillian who refused to be ignored, and Ruby.
On one hand, I found the writing to be so beautiful and I was very entertained by Ruby’s story.
The footnotes were half the book and contained side stories of other people in Ruby’s family, mostly her mother, grandmother and great-grandmother.
While they could be entertaining, many of them could have used with harsh editing and a few didn’t need to be there at all.
I was always waiting to get back to Ruby’s story while I was reading the footnotes.
The family didn’t always seem to have much love for one another and the tragedies the family endured were sometimes told in a flippant manner.
The funniest parts were when Ruby was scathingly commenting about her family members, especially her sisters and parents.
Terribly traumatic events happen to this family but they’re told in such a light and breezy manner (by Ruby during and before her actual lifetime) that I didn’t find the book at all depressing, but very entertaining.
I also was disappointed by parts toward the end of the book: Ruby’s narrative style which worked so well for me when she was young, making her seem engaged & possessing an acerbic wit, makes her seem distant and unfeeling in the latter part of the story.
This is a first novel, and it does show in a couple of places--the early chapters struggle to maintain the plausibility of such an adult authorial voice being refracted through the experience and understanding of a child, and there's at least one plot twist towards the end of the novel which I thought it could well have done without.
Despite that, I really loved this book: the humour of it is just right for me, balanced right on the edge of tragedy.
The prose achieves moments of real loveliness, without ever seeming to strive for the correct turn of phrase, and her observances of her characters are both painful and real.
Bunty is the middle one of five siblings, her mother was the youngest of seven, but they quickly take on their own idiosyncrasies and it isn’t that hard to keep them apart.Although BtS@tM continues to the present (1992, when the book was written), it essentially ends with the uncovering, at the age of 16, of the secret of Ruby’s deep unhappiness ...(view spoiler)[ the suppressed memory of her twin sister Pearl, drowned when she was 4, and for which she had been unjustly blamed by Gillian, the middle sister.
И точно докато четях книгата, се сетих за една мисъл, на която бях попаднала преди време, че е " По- лесно да отгледаш пълноценна личност, отколкото да излекуваш разбита".
Усещането ми за Руби е, че тя е точно такава смазана и разбита личност, жертва на егоистични родители, които са се оженили, просто за да избягат от самотата.
Кейт Аткинсън има богат език и създава живи картини.
Не знаех какво да очаквам; мислех си, че ще е просто един цветущ художествен разказ за живота на едно английско семейство, но всъщност към края, се разкрива същинската мистерия и скритите факти излизат наяве.
Read as part of The Infinite Variety Reading Challenge, based on the BBC's Big Read Poll of 2003.Simply not to my style or taste and only read as part of a reading challenge.
I did skim it, whilst either listening to Radio 2 or watching Allo Allo, and I don't think I missed anything.
The thing that annoys me so much is that the title-Behind the Scenes at the Museum-is wonderful and evocative and imagination and makes me think of wonderful, fantastical, magical things and this book was none of those things.
Which is fair enough but disappointing nevertheless.Blog | Reviews | Instagram | Twitter
Chapters and "footnotes" alternate between two eras of a Yorkshire family saga. Many dark secrets and inter-related people, significant objects and events. Sometimes a little confusing, especially some of the men in the WW1 era. Also some of the WW1 background (rationing, fear of bombs) doesn't ring true, but that could be my ignorance. Narrated by one of the youngest memebers of the family, who, even allowing for hindsight, is ludicrously knowing and analytical about events in her early childhood.
This book was beyond tedious. An excellent example of why our English teachers were always badgering us over run-on sentences. I never saw so many commas in my life. The narrative was endless. Endless details of the mundane and uninteresting. And it was written in a way that told me the author was reaching to write in a unique style, and that always bugs me. I will definitely be avoiding all other work by this author.
This took me a bit longer to get hooked by than the previous Atkinson books I've read, but it was so worth it.
It's a beautifully-constructed, multigenerational family saga (a type of book I don't usually like, but this one works).
Atkinson's humour brings this tragicomedy away from being bleak and into something that feels - well, that feels very much like real life!
I loved how the layers were gradually peeled away, with the reader getting to know many of Ruby's ancestors one-by-one and revealing the family secrets.
A thoroughly enjoyable read - all the more impressive given that it's Atkinson's debut novel.
Each chapter describing Ruby's life has a footnote to a chapter that describes events in the lives of her ancestors--like her grandmother, Alice, who was burdened with a drunk husband and too many children.Ruby witnesses or learns many of her family's secrets (their father's friend "Auntie Doreen" takes the girls on a holiday; Ruby surprises both her mother and her father in flagrante with other partners; and then there's the truth of what happened to the long-forgotten Pearl) and others are revealed through the "footnotes" (who fathered Lillian's baby?
What really happened to Alice?) QUOTESJack realized that Albert collected good days the way other people collected coins, or sets of postcards.Kenneth, my junior by two years, is like a distillation of all the little boys that ever were, a kind of demonstration model--from the sagging socks to the half-sucked gobstopper in his pocket.
I can't really review this book the way I would like to without having to add spoilers.
I'm not really sure how much I liked this book.
Having enjoyed Atkinson's other books quite a bit I'm glad that I didn't start with this one.
I also struggled a bit to keep up with all the characters and family connections as the storyline kept going back and forth from the present time to the past.
I disliked most of the characters and really struggled to become completely invested in their lives.
Having said that I might contradict myself slightly and say that there were moments that were quite profound and touching.
However, i find myself never wanting to continue to read and finish this book.
I also can't wait to get to read Soldier of A Great War or Middlesex.
I realize that everyone seems to love this book, but this one does not keep me awake at night in bed and reading!!P.S. I finally put the book down without finishing it and started reading the Lost Diaries of Don Juan, and that is one book that I want to sink my teeth in right away and can't put down;-) I guess the British middle class stories laced with pudding and too many kids does not work for me too well!!
This is a multi-generational story (4 of them), with numerous characters and frequent time shifts. Good luck keeping everything - and everyone - straight.I am left with one burning question...(view spoiler)[Who the heck was Mr. Nobody and why was he included in this book when he was completely meaningless to the story? (hide spoiler)]Did the author throw a bunch of things against the wall and this was one of the several things that stuck?
Ruby Lennox begins narrating her life at the moment of conception, and from there takes us on a whirlwind tour of the twentieth century as seen through the eyes of an English girl determined to learn about her family and its secrets.This was one of the most intriguing books I have ever read....I love Kate Atkinson, but this is 6*
The story weaves its way backward and forward through time, tracing the path of several people's lives - their loves, their deaths, their experiences.
I love that it primarily tracks the women of one family and it's fascinating to see the way in which their lives intertwine.
I also liked the way in which the narrative reads through Ruby's eyes and her thoughts.
Later, as Ruby becomes an adult and later approaches midlife, we witness her discovery of some of the more unsavory truths in life, but we also see her acceptance of the people she loves.
Wonderfully odd way of telling 100 years in a British family's history.
The story opens in 1950 at the conception of Ruby Lennox and flashes back via lengthy footnotes to explain the significance of the family relics as she encounters them in her life.
Often the family history footnotes are longer than the activity in the present.
There are family secrets and York history during both World Wars.
I love that the parents in every generation were dreadful and unsympathetic.
I also loved the piecemeal understanding we all have of our pasts and its influences on us and our parents.
It began to rain, a light summer shower, and the smell of the rain on the new June grass made Nell feel suddenly wretched.” Ruby considers the June 1888 photograph of Alice and thinks: “Nell – who on this hot day is unborn and has all her life ahead of her – will one day be my grandmother and have all her life behind her without ever knowing how that happened (another woman lost in time).” The real sense of loss is as much the sense of forgotten memories as of death.In these vignettes, even Bunty can be looked at as a sympathetic character.
Це не так родинна сага, як біографія людини через призму її родинної історії, і не лише безпосередніх бабусь-дідусів, але й випадкових знайомих, тварин чи навіть предметів, наприклад ґудзика. Роман дотепний і тримає в постійній інтризі, хоча знайомі з британською літературою вгадуватимуть сюжетні повороти. Родинне життя якщо і є казкою, то тією де кожен персонаж почуває себе Попелюшкою, гнобленою сестрами, чоловіком, дітьми. Жоден і жодна не відчуває себе злою мачухою чи матір’ю або зрадливим чоловіком. Історія минулих поколінь тут з‘являється через примітки, що міцно прив‘язує її до поколінь теперішніх.
I assume that the book is largely autobiographical, but it does not read as that either, since Ruby (who always speaks in a voice older than her years, and can be marvelously funny) is so much alive that she leaps off the page as an independent creation, clearly informed by the author's love-hate relationship with the other members of her extended family, but by no means following her footsteps.
But they are told out of chronological order and feature a large cast of characters; I wish I had thought to jot down a timeline and family tree as I was reading.
