https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/75856.Educating_Rita
3.5***From the book jacket: Hairdresser Rita feels that life has passed her by.
I love watching Rita grow and change throughout this play.
She feel “less than” due to a lack of education, and envies the students on the university campus their lifestyle.
Rita is not sure what she wants out of life, but she knows she wants more, and she sees education as a means to give her more options.
But Frank sees something in Rita that sparks his interest.
Rita isn’t certain what path she will choose, but she knows that, thanks to Frank, she now has more choices.
Read: May 2017Rating: 5/5 stars, best of 2017I have seen the film version of Educating Rita about three times and now I've finally read the original play.
Rita is a wonderful character and I loved the way the dynamics in the relationship between Rita and Frank slowly change over the course of the play as she becomes more confident and educated.
Frank's character was a lot more likeable in the film in my opinion.
Amazing! I recommend it to my persian friends and readers, who are working hard to make the education acceptable for all and trying to get rid of the discriminational approach to other ethnicities and dialects. One awesome example of a relationship between a teacher and a student, who in a way give a hand to each other to get out of depression. The radio Drama version of this novel is just brilliant and more appealing. If you have not much time to read, you can simply listen to it, here:http://www.youtube.com/results?search...
Read it for my uni course. Never read a play before so it was interesting, comical.
4.5 stars
Read it for school. Loved it. Rita is such an interesting woman and I loved witnessing her evolution.
Read for work.
Read it for my English class. Brilliant, and so funny!
I didn't want to come to your house just to play the court jester."*4.5 stars*In today's episode of Trini Hates Required Reading, I actually liked the book I had to read for uni, yay!Educating Rita is such a funny, yet thought-provoking read about a Liverpool working class woman in pursuit of her education.
The play is basically just dialogue between two characters: Frank and Rita.
My favorite thing about the whole play is, by far, the character of Rita.
It is meant to be a funny, but real reflection of the education system with some great insight into herd mentality in the working class.
I was expecting to see a score around 4.5, yet seemingly I am wrong.
But, anyway, this play is more than brilliant (or terrific).
There is no excessive or unnecessary use of symbols, everything has written to develop the play smoothly.
Well, if you think of the first scene in which Rita forces the door to open as Rita's determination to get educated, maybe you will search for such excellent use of symbolism throughout the play, and the more you read it carefully, the more you'll like it, and give it a higher score as a result.
Good try, better result, Mr. Russell!
When I started reading this book i really didn't like it, but had to keep on reading because i needed to finish the book for an assignment in school.
It is a very interesting play with good character development.Update: I'm giving this book three and a half stars.
Upon rereading it, the story only gets more interesting.
You notice a lot of things in the story that you hadn't seen before and a lot of things start to make sense (I know, i know, i am vague).
I really enjoy analysing this story (though that is also because we have a great English teacher.
This is actually the second time I'm reading this play, though last time was some three years ago and I also saw the movie recently before rereading. With that said, I can't help but feel giddy over this work. I love a story which can present flawed yet genuine characters realistically, which this truly has.Then there's also the questions about society being raised, and the dilemma of whether education really does help everyone or if it threatens the individuality of an "untouched" mind. An important discussion that needs to be had and considered.
I don't usually read plays and i think i might start to because i really enjoyed this one. I had to read it for my english reading over the holidays. I wish it were longer because i want to find out what happens to Rita and Frank. Does she go on holidays with him or Tiger? does she find herself and leave that place. I didn't expect it to enjoy it this much. Good read!!!
A play I was required to study during my AS Level, looking at the conventions of a comedy. I'm really interested in reading plays but I did enjoy the humor in Educating Rita. I must say, however, I did much prefer the film version.
If I tried to review this book I would be reviewing the film because that is what was playing on my head as I read it! By the way, Ross bought this home as homework. Another source of surreptitious serendipitous reads!
3.5 stars - I really enjoyed reading this play and would like to recommend it to others. However, it can be improved at many levels.
Book Club #10: November
nemidoonam chera az in namayeshname khosham oomad,ye joori bood,ye hesse khassi midad...
Bettie's Books
Today, I just felt nostalgic. So, I read Educating Rita. Absolutely, bloody marvellous.
I read this at school and it was quite a fun play and an interesting one to study, given that it takes place between two characters in one room!
Come here, Frank…” Showing a great chemistry with two totally different characters Frank and Rita.
Hungry for educating, it shows a great adventure of how Rita tries to escape from her hungriness of education.
The relationship of one who is eager and hungry of education and one who is now sick of education come together and find their intersection point.A script-form book with only two characters makes it simpler for the readers to enjoy and interact with these characters where all of the actions happen only with dialogue.
For an education she goes to Frank, possible the most alcoholic professor I've read, who teaches Rita on how to write a good essay (Strange that those lessons only teach about the content of such essays, never the development).
The more Rita learns, the more distance she creates between Frank, her old mentor and the one who introduced her to this knowledge and herself, Susan.
The end was a bit too forced in my opinion, but it was endearing: we start with a hairdresser who wants an education, we end with a professor receiving a haircut.
I first read this play two years ago during my second year at uni and, although I did like it, I didn't really think much of it.Now I'm reading it again for my theatre class and I'm crazy in love with it.As someone in an English Studies degree, Rita's story resonates with me on so many levels.
I loved the opposition of ideas throughout the play.
There are so many good points to make about this play!!Each social class has its benefits and drawbacks, but I admire how well Russell presented the moral of the story (at least the one I got out of it), that education ultimately gives you choices.
I don't think I can do this play justice with regards to writing a review.
One thing I will add is I find it astounding how Russell can really get into the minds of women in the late 70s and early 80s.
Most of his female characters have big dreams and I'm so impressed with him for giving working class women a voice during that time.
Shirley Valentine, Rita, Sandra...
Good job Russell was a women's hairdresser earlier in life, you can really hear the authentic voices in his characters.
Educating Rita is no exception.
See, told you this review couldn't do it justice!
‘I said to him... even if I was having an affair there’s no point burnin’ me books I’m not havin’ it off with Anton Chekhov.’He said, ‘I wouldn’t put it past you to shack up with a foreigner.’Just for that line alone this play deserves 5/5. Disappointed to see such low scores for this. I love the Somerset Maugham reference too.
I love this story, and the film is excellent - it's impossible to read any line without Julie Walters' voice. It's writers like Willy Russell and Alan Bennett who I love the most, making art out of what seems like drudgery and showcasing humanity at its finest and most mundane. Frank isn't happy with what he creates but in the end it's all about Rita's choice, and she'll never forget her roots.
A working-class girl wanting more from life seeks a literary education and it tutored by an alcoholic professor. They begin changing each other until in the end, both have grown. I enjoyed some of the insights. The professor hitting on the working class girl was a bit tired. In the end the redemption was there. Enjoyed it. Recommend.
A sweet play that is often really funny, Educating Rita has a lot of heart and is a real crowd-pleaser. I find the ending a bit abrupt and not entirely convincing, but it's a good show nonetheless.
A Play that is at once " Of it's time " and searingly sharp about the power of words, the curative nature of intelligent discourse and literature and an almost courtly love affair, a true meeting of minds.Wonderful.
