https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/271295.A_Cold_Day_For_Murder
That's because in the first book of a long running series, it is always a near or dear who commits the crime.Dana Stabenow has certainly captivated my attention.
I've never read so much descriptiveness in a book under 300 pages.
I'm sure I'll follow a few of the sequels and see if the quality really holds up.I recommend this book.
Its flashbacks, necessary an evil as they are, do not bog down the book, and this setting reminds me of the simple but classic quip: Juneau the capital of Alaska?
For example, I happily hand over my Bouchercon and Left Coast Crime Conference fees and feel like I’ve won the lottery when I receive a bag filled with books.
Even though I’ve never been to Alaska, I feel like I could paint a picture of its vast wilderness and attractive scenery and include a few interesting characters to boot, if I should so desire.
The mystery proved interesting and engaging, but at times it felt like it took a backseat to the characters and the scenery.
I listened to the audiobook version which is narrated by the wonderful Marguerite Gavin.
The characters were mostly interesting and/or quirky and making the heroine an Aleut woman gave some insight into the culture of the native Alaskan People.
The story itself felt a little long-winded and overly descriptive at times however and I found my mind wandering more than once.
I don't really want a play-by-play account of how the heroine's grandmother makes cocoa and fried bread.
The mystery and the subsequent investigation felt a little flat and there didn't seem to be any sense of urgency.
This is the first of Dana Stabenow's novels that I've read, and I think the first she wrote.
I almost stopped about half-way through but I'm glad I didn't.
After a long period of introducing characters and the Alaska locale, with a plot going nowhere, the pace did pick up and the story became interesting.
Not fantastic, but interesting.
There is some good writing with relaxed and amusing observations, but there are also segments where the writing just "tries too hard," and other segments where it seems cliche-driven.
In summary, it's an OK read, but I cannot imagine why it won an Edgar Award.
And for Kate Shugak's half wolf pet, Mutt.
The author does well to set up the close knit community where everyone knows everyone else's business and feels like they have the right to get all up in it.
It factors well into the plot, where personal interests clash enough for two people to end up dead.
The overarching premise is interesting enough and I like the feel of Kate if not the execution.
In any case, I have her newest book to read so i'll know by the end whether to come back for more.ARC via Netgalley
3.8 starsWonderful first book in a series, I am hooked.
Alaskan setting, tough Alaskan woman with scars, fab dog/wolf sidekick, and snarky side characters all wrapped around a decent story !
The cast in this story are offbeat, and maybe a touch crazy, which makes them even more enjoyable to get to know.
I have a favorite snarky character Bobby, you have to meet this guy.
:D If you are looking for a murder mystery series to get lost in give this one a try.
I hear there are 19 more books already published just waiting to be picked up.
Hot Tamales I like not waiting for the next book !
I enjoyed this book very much. Loved reading about Alaska and its people. I like Kate Shugak a lot so I look forward to reading more about her.
Farò un pensiero sul secondo se sarà in offerta al momento altrimenti passo.Dopo aver letto alcuni commenti su Anobii e averci pensato un po' posso dire che le due stelle sono anche colpa di chi ha pensato il titolo italiano.
Quello era colpa del titolo secondo me.
In questo caso avevo letto il titolo originale all'interno del paperback e potei apprezzare il volume ma ....per il libro Alaskiano purtroppo, sebbene sia nella scheda di GR, non l'ho letto fino a poche ore fa per metterlo sul mio Livejournal.Il due rimane, non mi è piaciuto, ma un titolo può fare la differenza.
Dead in the Water takes Kate onto a crabber up in the Aleutians, and A Cold-Blooded Business sends her much farther north to the slopes of the Prudhoe oil field to find the source of a massive drug problem.And I think that’s what I really like here -- A Cold-Blooded Business is about a native Alaskan’s view of the oil drilling and, as most of the books are to some degree or other, also about the plague of substance abuse which is still raging through the state’s communities, native and otherwise.
A member of the Aleut tribe, Kate was raised on tribal lands and knows the area, it’s residents and the dangers better than anybody.
I had the feeling that Stanbow wanted everyone to see what poverty, alcohol and addiction had done to the Aleut people and likely the other residents of the park.
The strength of this story came from the characters including the Aleuts and those who lived with them.
It’s a murder mystery and a “who done it.” I hope Stanbow and her publishers allow the Kate Shugak stories include more action and intense scenes in later books.
Kate, now working as a private investigator, takes the case, and delves into complicated political issues involving the use of park land for tourist purposes.I was surprised to learn that this was not actually Stabenow's first novel, because it sure felt like one.
The book was much too repetitive; as Kate went around interviewing people, she felt obliged to tell her story over and over again, verbatim.
(Sometimes I make exceptions to this rule, but in this case the rule holds quite firmly.)On the positive side, the book was easy to get through, and I did appreciate the originality of Stabenow's sleuth and her setting.
Having won a copy of Though Not Dead through the Goodreads First Reads program (and loved it), I decided to go back to the beginning and allow myself to be introduced to Kate Shugak good and proper.
I am in love with Dana Stabenow and her creation, Kate Shugak.
One of the things that I love about Dana Stabenow's writing is this: she alludes to things past without feeling the need to explain anything.
Another thing I love about Stabenow is the way she paints a portrait of the glorious Alaskan wilderness.
Aleutian Kate Shugak and her dog/wolf companion, Mutt, live alone outside of town in the Park, an Alaskan reservation.
Now her past lover and ex-boss, Jack Morgan, wants her to find two men missing in the park - one of whom is another ex-lover.The descriptive writing in this book is fabulous.
Visiting Alaska after reading this book will result in deja vu, I'm sure.
Kate herself as a character works really well - tough, dryly amusing, very competent.
While this is Ms Stabenow's first novel in the series, surely it is not her first novel?
I enjoyed it and moved straight on to the next book in the series.
This book had everything I like about a mystery book, engaging characters, fabulous milieu, and an interesting mystery.Kate Shugak almost died on a mission and after that did she quit her job, but when this case lands on her doorstep does she decide to try to find the ranger and the detective who gone missing.
But, they have both been gone for weeks and the weather is cold so the chances of finding one of them or both are slim.The book isn't especially long, but I quite liked this little mystery.
Kate was the lead investigator for the Anchorage ADA, Jack Morgan.
Kate is an Aleut.Jack and an FBI agent show up to ask her help in finding a missing Ranger and the current ADA investigator.
The Ranger disappeared 6 weeks ago and his father is a US Senator who has pressured the FBI to become involved.
Morgan had sent Ken Dahl to search for the young man and he also had disappeared two weeks ago.
Morgan wants Kate to take up the search.
For a first story, it's an excellent intro to Kate.
I wanted to get it done so I could start something else and I was almost there so finished it up before I went to bed.The story is about Kate, a native of Alaska, who finds discord within the "Outsiders" and her own people.
I like to feel the emotions of the character which doesn't happen when I'm being told the events rather than being a part of them.
This rather left me feeling detached to the story and characters.
This is one those Kindle freebies that took me forever to read because I was worried that I wouldn’t like, that Kate would just be one of those women with “look at my huge chip on my shoulder, you sexist pig who but it there! How dare you judge me for being bitchy! I have a tragic life!” slogan. She’s not. Retired from investigation due to an incident, Kate is called in to investigate two missing people. One of the missing is a former protégé and lover. One of the people calling her in is anothe
This is one those Kindle freebies that took me forever to read because I was worried that I wouldn’t like, that Kate would just be one of those women with “look at my huge chip on my shoulder, you sexist pig who but it there!
Retired from investigation due to an incident, Kate is called in to investigate two missing people.
One of the people calling her in is another former love.
The writing at sometimes is a bit clunky.
She is what makes the book worth reading.
Oh my, I thoroughly enjoyed this book, it's a beautiful clean read with a leading female character who's quit from the DA's office after a heinous crime which has lead to Kate being scared both externally and internally and also has lost her beautiful voice.
I enjoyed how Kate very slowly and calmly goes about talking/interviewing people and slowly patching things together.
I love her attitude and Mutt!!
Wish I had a mutt like that!
I'm extremely happy that I've just discovered this series and that there are soo many more to go through.I am in book heaven!
3.5 starsI think that I will like later books in the series more - this first one has a lot of (necessary) background information about the characters and setting that at times was a bit too much.
I enjoyed this most for its setting in the Alaskan wilderness in winter, beautiful and forbidding. It rang true in its depiction of a community of indigenous people dealing with problems such as alcohol and the desire of younger members to escape to the city. In Australia the country is very different, but the problems are similar, as of course are their causes.I also liked the strength and the flaws of all the characters, especially those of the central character. I shall enjoy reading other books in the series.
She doesn't attempt to replicate the way Dana Stabenow probably hears Kate Shugak's ruined voice in her head, doesn't attempt to constantly "do" ruined, for which I was grateful for the five and a half hours of the book.
I'm sure it's a good read, but it's a great listen.
It's someplace I think I'd have liked to go – but, after listening to this (and from what little else I know), I don't think I'd be very welcome.
Great sense of humor which for some reason I didn't expect – Bobby is a terrific character, funny without being comic relief.
I enjoyed listening to the cadences of the names.
A Cold Day for Murder3 StarsAfter a Park Ranger and the detective sent in to find him both disappear somewhere in the vast and freezing wilderness of Alaska, the Anchorage DAs office requests the aid of former investigator Kate Shugak.
However, once she begins asking questions and the answers start hitting a little to close to home, Kate feels compelled to uncover the truth whatever the cost.The endless descriptions of the Alaskan outback detract from the flow of the narrative and pacing of the mystery.
Nevertheless, the realistic characterization of both primary and secondary characters enable the setting to come alive in a way that the overly descriptive writing fails to do.Kate is a particularly engaging heroine.
Not an easy read as there is so much to process being introduced into the world of Kate Shugak and life in one of Alaska's National Parks.However, the writing is crisp and beautifully captures the surrounding environment; furthermore the characters are well drawn and speak with all the power of real people.It is a simple missing person mystery that Kate is called to solve.
It is a sympathetic treatment of the indigenous peoples and is a story that will stay with you long after you reach its climax.Happily for everyone Dana Stabenow struck gold in them hills with this novel and a cannon of work exists where Kate Shugak is the investigator, a series of books to discover like the wide expanses of Alaska itself.
I listened to this book on Audible whilst working out.
I had to listen to several chapters twice just to make certain that I was picking up everything.If you listen to books on tape and give them your full focus, I would recommend this.
If you read in "hard-copy" or on an e-reader, I also recommend it.
NOTE: I am reviewing books with two primary criteria in mind: those that work well as less demanding listens for driving and / or working out.
And those books which command my full attention and which I prefer to read visually.
AudiobookAnother book that proves I either have prognostication powers or I read it before. I kept thinking, "This sounds familiar" throughout the whole book. The mystery conclusion was really sad because things could have turned out so much better if people would stop thinking only about themselves. I'm planning on working my way through the series. Very good series. Marguerite Gavin was the narrator. I've listened to her in other audiobooks and didn't know if that would taint my appreciation of this book but she did a great job. 4 out of 5 stars.
This novel was published in 1992, but if I had not noticed that the characters lacked cell phones and that the veterans' stories were from Vietnam, not Iraq, I might have thought that it was written more recently. Unfortunately the problems of Native Americans persist into this century and complicated interpersonal relationships are still the order of the day.
First Line: They came out of the south late that morning on a black-and-silver Ski-doo LT.Somewhere in the endless acres of "The Park" a ranger has gone missing.
In reluctantly agreeing to search for the missing men, Kate finds herself being pulled out of her self-imposed exile back to the life she'd left behind.This slim little volume is a quick read that introduces the reader to two prime objects: the Alaskan wilderness and the prickly character of Kate Shugak.
This is the first book in a very popular series, and Stabenow not only marks her territory, she populates it with a woman I just have to know more about.
Dana Stabenow kicks off her long running series featuring Kate Shugak, a native detective in the frozen wilds of Alaska.
Stabenow's own experience of growing up in Alaska are perhaps the main reason the books work so well, with the natural nostalgia and affection for the locale and its people coming through strongly and which no amount of research or googling could ever imitate.
I had a few slight issues with her using randomly the first and second names of the characters to mark dialogue in the early chapters (bit confusing) but other than that early stumble I found the book very readable.
This short little murder mystery has an interesting setting - winter in an Alaskan National Park - that almost compensates for the poor quality of the writing.
She quit her job after a bizarre incident involving a knife-wielding child molester and returned home to the Park to sulk in a cabin with no indoor toilet.
This mostly involves Kate riding around on her snow machine and talking to former lovers and various members of her extended family.I liked the details about life in the Alaskan bush - snow machines and moose burgers and places that are accessible only by small airplanes.
I love starting a new series, especially one with lots of entries.
Kate Shugak is a native Aleutian who has worked Outside as a hotshot D.A. investigator.
She was nearly killed in an investigation and has returned to the Alaskan wilderness.
Her former boss (and lover) has asked her to investigate the disappearance of a park ranger and another investigator which she reluctantly agrees to do.
This was a compelling read.
Dana Stabenow made me feel the cold and wildness of the environment, and introduced me to a very different culture.
Kate Shugak is a troubled, conflicted character also, and I look forward to getting to know her well!
