https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/770674.The_Adventures_of_Sally
Effortlessly funny. I've noticed other reviewers panning Wodehouse for failing to provide sufficiently deep characterization or plots with substance. To me, that misses the point. Wodehouse revels in language. The things that man can do to a cliché! I read Wodehouse to remember how much fun it can be to string words together and I was not disappointed.
Next time someone asks me which person, living or dead I would invite to dinner, it's a toss-up between P.G. and Ogden - and maybe Truman Capote because you just KNOW he had dirt that he hadn't even begun to dish...but I digress.Wodehouse's humor, like Jane Austen's, rests in the characters he creates and his wry observations about the society that contains and supports their unique absurdity.
These flawed human beings then exhibit a natural tendency to create misery for themselves, at which point Wodehouse steps in and sets them back to rights again.

I had a sudden craving for something amusing and comfy, and it had been awhile since I had read any Wodehouse (went through a 'Jeeves" phase some years ago) so when I stumbled across this listed in the free category on Kindle I gave it a go.
Our heroine Sally might be a bit flippant but she has a heart of gold, and very practically just wants the best for Fillmore, her obese brother who aspires to be a theatrical producer; for Ginger, the bumbling red-headed rugby player she takes under her wing after he stops a public dogfight; or for the colorful denizens of the New York boarding house where she lives as the story opens.
Wodehouse never wrote about anything that matters, never created a three-dimensional character, and never told a story that was worth telling.
So how did Wodehouse manage to get more than 90 books into print and why does he have such a faithful cult following?
This book has flashes of that charm, but is duller than most because the charm is lacking for long passages.
Wodehosue can turn a nice phrase now and then, less here than in many books.
The occasions when he does are very nice.
I can not recommend THE ADVENTURES OF SALLY to any but a die-hard Wodehouse fan.
Again, unusually for Wodehouse, all the characters are exactly as they are introduced to us, although some of them are as black hearted as a typical Wodehouse villain, no-one is using an assumed name or pretending to be a royal consort rather than a jewellery thief.Despite these shifts of the sands as a book it ticks all the boxes and Wodehouse brings the courtship of Sally and Ginger through the business of a musical comedy and leaves us feeling that this is the best of all possible worlds descried in the best of all possible words.
Sally is excellent.
She manages to be snarky and patronizing toward all the boyish men in her life without any of them being the wiser.
The year is 1922 and 21-year-old Sally has just inherited $25,000.
She can move out of the rooming house in NYC and get her own apartment.
Maybe start her own business.
This being a Wodehouse novel, nothing goes according to plan.
'I've missed you dreadfully,' she said, and felt the words inadequate as she uttered them.
'What ho!' said Ginger, also internally condemning the poverty of speech as a vehicle for coveying thought.Exactly how I feel.
I would say, a jolly book ;-) Like a balm for a stressed mind.Witty language, funny, likable characters, surprising situations/plot twists and these dialogues ;-)My first novel by P.G. Wodehouse (for sure not last), so I can't compare but I have had a charming time during listening to this one.For more read e.g. Alisha's or QNPoohBear's review.[I have been listening to a splendid reading by Kara Shallenberg from LibriVox]
This is he first Wodehouse I've read that has a female main protagonist. It was amusing but not fall on the floor hilarious as some of his other books are. It was read by Kara Shallenberg who's become one of my favorite Lobrivox.org reader.
This is w Wodehouse novel I did not quite expect.
Set mostly in USA; the roaring 20s in New York (mostly), this is almost chick lit, 1920s Wodehouse chick lit with wannabe theater moguls, dog fights (best dog fight in the history of literature, boxers and where no male character seems to have a brain of any sort.
The heroine is just that, a female main character of somewhat heroic nature, and unlike other Wodehouse main characters is actually quite bright even if too gallant for her own good..
Some of the dialogue is to my taste, as toe curlingly delicious as anything else Wodehouse ever wrote.
Not Vintage Wodehouse. It took a while to warm up to the characters, but once it got going it just kept going with typical Wodehousian plot twists and improvisations and ended up being a good read.
I thought this was a cute, slightly comic rom-com from the 20's....But I didn't think it was Wodehouse.If I had read it without knowing who the author was, he wouldn't have been my guess.
While there are some really humorous turns of phrase and great comic moments, it's not nearly as madcap and deliberately nonsensical as his other books.
Maybe it's because he's writing with a female as his main character, or maybe it's just that he hadn't found his tone yet.It's light-hearted but it still takes itself slightly more seriously than what I am accustomed to in a Wodehouse.
There's her foolish, Flo Ziegfeld-wannabe brother, Fillmore, who has one wild scheme after another; her devoted admirer, Lancelot "Ginger" Kemp, with his flame-red hair, impulsive nature, and knack for losing one job after another; the aging, British expatriate actor, Maxwell Faucitt, whose observations about people are always dead-on; Ginger's rich, unpleasant cousin, Bruce Carmyle; and, my personal favorite, Toto.
The audiobook is from LibriVox read by Kara Shallenberg.
I also thought Bruce Carmyle's last name was Carlisle until I read the book, due to her pronunciation.
She sounds quite amused as she's reading the book.
I love Wodehouse, and not just his Jeeves and Wooster books.
But I didn't love this.
Frederick Davidson does a good job with Wodehouse books, but he made Sally sound like an air head; she could be Madeline Basset's twin sister.
lol And I got the feeling she wasn't supposed to be that way.
There were a few good lines, but the situations themselves didn't feel amusing and Sally never made sense to me as a person.
Best line in the book: “And she's got brains enough for two, which is the exact quantity the girl who marries you will need.”

If you want good ol' satirical British humor, Wodehouse is always a good choice. When Sally's fiancé wants to keep their engagement a secret she thinks that if she didn't love him, and if he wasn't an artist, she would wonder if he was a homicidal arsonist. Makes sense to me.
In which Wodehouse locates stuffy respectability and high-handed authority in an uncle not an aunt.
Sally is dying to know why the red haired man was fired from his job and is embarrassed and a bit pleased to hear the red haired man praise her beauty.
Her brother comes up with the perfect solution and Sally has faith that everything will turn out.
Finally she runs back to New York where her problems multiply and she discovers something about herself and her problem she never knew before.This is another great Wodehouse classic!
Once Sally leaves New York for the first time, the plot picks up pace.
I HAD to know how things turned out with Sally and whether she found true love and with whom!
I read this to balance out my depressing "parent with cancer" book and because I love Wodehouse. I know that everyone knows I love him. I say it all the time. But I think I love Bertie & Jeeves best. Sally was sparkling and clever and I liked her a lot, but she's no Bertram Wilberforce Wooster. It was a fun little read though. I don't think I've ever met a Wodehouse I didn't like.
A fun read . it had me chuckling on a lot of pages but it sort of dragged towards the HEA end which was expected anyhow.
3 StarsThe Adventures of Sally is the story of a young woman who inherits a significant sum of money and all of the events that arise because of it. The story is sort of like a weird mash-up between a spoofy Howards End and The Importance of Being Earnest. ”A man’s subconscious self is not the ideal companion. It lurks for the greater part of his life in some dark den of its own, hidden away, and emerges only to taunt and deride and increase the misery of a miserable hour.” Written during and se
Written during and set in the Roaring Twenties, The Adventures of Sally provides an interesting look at the times and classism.
Although some of that was intentionally done, particularly comparing the U.S. and England slang of the day.I started out listening to the audio book but had to switch to the print version because of the horrible narration.
What a burn!”Sadly, the characters didn’t live up to the wittiness of the narration or even their own dialogue.
Sally was particularly annoying which was disappointing since she is the main character.
Sally continuously showed how flighty she was which got old very quickly.

Started very well and was laugh out loud funny at times but I thought it lost its way a bit towards the end.
what is wrong with Sally!! the writing is really good and there are amusing instances here and there, but dear god Wodehouse has no clue how to write about women!
I listened to Frederick Davidson's excellent narration.
This is light, funny, and chock full of Wodehouse's classic turns of phrase.
Her life is full of the wrong sort of men: self-centered, weak, whining, complainers.
When will she see the light?One of the themes is the contrast between the constant striving for fame and success versus the contentment of a quiet life.
Wodehouse teases actors.
I suppose I should be content with the laugh I got while listening.

I've been a bit wary of Wodehouse since trying the Jeeves stories and finding them over-the-top (found character/narrator Bertie Wooster's British schoolboy slang and escapades grating after enough repetition).
Imagine a Dickens style plot: memorably charming characters; clever dialog; ever changing fortunes, with the rich suddenly finding themselves poor and the poor, rich; the satisfying but improbable way characters keep popping back into the story.
Henry's short stories set in New York City (happy endings for poor shop girls).
The British schoolboy shtick is still there, in the character Ginger, but it's bearable when diluted by all the other great characters.

So enjoyable. This was the first Wodehouse I've read in which the romance was, well, romantic! Also the first in which the protagonist is a woman, though the adorable Sally definitely has shades of Eve from Leave it to Psmith. I listened to a superb audio recording, which did full justice to the comic timing of some of the scenes. I think one can understand all that was best about the 1920s ideal of the modern young woman from Wodehouse (I try to remember this when I get grumpy about the 1920s).
Some parts were hilarious and I even Googled P.G. Wodehouse to find out when his birthday was because he reminded of Oscar Wilde. Some websites say they have the same birthday (I knew it), others say they are born a day apart. Either way, P.G. Wodehouse sounds exactly like Wilde. The story was just OK, but the humor is super snarky. I will definitely be reading more by Wodehouse.
