https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/99450.Isle_of_View
The last Xanth book that I read30 December 2011 Well, I am finally at the end of all of the Xanth novels that I have read.
I really do not know why I went through them all and wrote a comment on them, but I guess it is something that I felt that I had to do.
I guess I really did persist through these novels, but then at the time that I was reading them, I was enjoying them, however I stopped here, for numerous reasons.
I guess one of the main reasons is that I temporarily moved away from reading
The last Xanth book that I read30 December 2011	Well, I am finally at the end of all of the Xanth novels that I have read.
I guess I really did persist through these novels, but then at the time that I was reading them, I was enjoying them, however I stopped here, for numerous reasons.
I guess one of the main reasons is that I temporarily moved away from reading.
While I would still read during this period of my life, I ended up spending more time with friends, and unfortunately reading is not something that one can necessarily do with friends.
I guess in the end, reading is in my blood.
I read through 17 of the Xanth series over a short period of time, years ago, and remember this as my favorite!
In re-reading it, I picked up right where I left off - in love with Piers Anthony's style of writing!
The puns, plot twists and cohesiveness are exhilerating.
Let's just say that the Isle is a 'place' where a Prince can't say: I love you!
(or pick the 'right' girl to marry).
In between this underlying dilemma, this 13th of the series adds goblins, a Centaur, and magical Elf girl (Jenny) and a love triangle that doesn't really exist, well, kind of!
I giggled when I read about Jenny Elf. I'm a huge fan of Elfquest so it was great to have this cute crossover.
Some of the Xanth series are fantastic! This is not one of them.
The Xanth novels are a quick, fun and funny read. Great starter books for young fantasy readers. There is a ton of them and you can pick up any of them and start. Very recommended
The story I just finished reading was called "Isle of View", and it is the thirteenth book in the Xanth series.
The main characters that were in the book the most often were: Prince Dolph, Jenny Elf, Che Centaur, Chex centaur, Nada, and Electra.
Chex centaur, who is Che’s mother, gets prince Dolph, Nada, and Electra to help find her foal (along with some others).
I cannot really relate to any of the characters in this story, even though there are many of them.
Usually, in other stories, the main characters are faced with extremely difficult decisions, in which doing the right thing usually goes against what they want.
Good. I look forward to reading more about Jenny Elf
Say the title out loud, preferably when someone else is in the room with you... Just do it.
My note when I read it in 1994: a "Xanth adventure" which is sort of a children's book with soooooo many puns. Mildly interesting but hard to finish.
Another great book by Piers Anthony in the Xanth series. And for those of us who know the real story behind JennyElf we give the author three huge cheers!!!👍👍👍
This is the 13th in the Xanth series and the books are very good. This book is not quite as punny but is a good story and the resolution of Dolph's Dilemma is revealed in the last chapter.
One more down.
Google returns the most popular results, and in a world where Piers Anthony has written hundreds of books and is famous, and two of those or so mentioned Jenny Gildwarg, you will get dozens of pages of results talking about the book and how it came to be written, but no follow ups (if they exist) on the girl herself because (presumably) those are not as popular.) I wasn't able to determine whether she is still alive -- she'd be about 40 now -- but the book made me think about how some people get chosen and others do not.It's a terrible thing that Jenny Gildwarg was hit by a drunk driver and paralyzed and in a coma.
I wasn't a huge fan in the first place; I thought they were basically readable, and wanted to know all the details because my best friend loved them and we had little jokes that referenced the series, but Piers Anthony started sacrificing the integrity--ahem--of his stories to make reader input more obvious here, and one way that manifested in Isle of View was that he actually inserted a reader as a character.I honestly could have said "Aw, that's sweet" if it had stayed a single book's touching shout-out.
Book thirteen of the Xanth series find Che, the foal of Chex & Cheiron kidnapped by goblins.
He can find anything, except for home, and leads Jenny to Che. While trying to rescue him, she becomes a captive of the goblins.
Just like Dolph, Che has a decision to make that can have a dramatic effect on the ones around him, those that he loves, and possibly the future of Xanth.I enjoyed this installment of the series.
Fans of the series will be happy that by the end of the book, Dolph makes his decision.
My boyfriend asked me what was so funny, read the title and stared blankly at it.
Ah, the ultimate proof some love puns, and some just don't get it!Time is running out for Electra, as she must marry Dolph before her birthday or die.
Obviously there are some Dolphs and Electras out there still.A very funny book, I really believe Xanth was getting close to it's absolute best at this point (my favorite books are Yon Ill Wind and Zombie Lover) and that it stays there for a good long while.
And solve it Anthony does, in his own perfect fashion, with everybody happy (this is, after all, Xanth :-) ) and some personal growth that comes from making a decision to do the right thing.
A unique feature of this book is the tie- in to the Elfquest series, with Jenny's character coming from that world; I could relate to this from having read the first Elfquest short story anthology, which I haven't reviewed here yet.
In fact, Anthony's treatment of sex and love is quite chaste and wholesome, with a strong celebration of monogamy and commitment as a basis for loving family life.
In a quest to get him back, Che's parents, Dolph, and Jenny Elf (a newbie to Xanth from another world) give chase, but it turns out the goblins want Che for a pretty important reason.
How will it all tie together?Anthony gave a shout-out to a big fan of his by making her a character--Jenny--because she'd been injured and he wanted to do something for her.
Anthony had been taking feedback and suggestions from his fans and at this point the book creaked and groaned around the twists and turns required to make puns fit.
The series occupies a strange space between silly and weird.
Anthony has some odd opinions on themes, such as sex, racism, prejudice, growing up, and the use of magic in everyday life.
The writing vacillates between heavy-handed condescending to extended analysis of magic, science, and the application of the rules of Xanth.
Some love it, some hate it; I personally thought it was a strange read but harmless, although I doubt I'll read each book twice.
One thing about Anthony, he has a very complicated history and genealogy of Xanth and its characters and you have to appreciate how he always finds ways to connect them from book to book.
I read at least five books in the Xanth series after "Isle of View", but I believe this may be the last one that I really enjoyed.
Sure, there's all the usual silliness, plus a guest star from ElfQuest that appears completely out of left field (but that was for a good cause), and yes Piers Anthony ticked me the HECK off when he thanked a reader for sending in the answer to Dolph's dilemma after he'd "already written it the wrong way".
(Gah, reader submissions.
Don't get me started.) But in all this book was simply likeable, and sweet.
I have to say, interesting solution...Of course, a majority of the book concerns the quest to rescue Che, the flying centaur foal and the random appearance of Jenny Elf. I do like the parallels of the situation, and how some species in the series are maturing/changing, just like the centaurs (kind of) die near the beginning of the series.So it was another quick read, so some parts felt over-drawn.
Realistic, though, with the different perspectives of Che's situation and how characters don't know what happened to others and react/behave according to older news.

Oh, Piers Anthony.
I found this one in a box of random books I'd picked up, delighted to find an author I recognized.
Imagine my surprise when I realized this was one of the books I'd read in my youth, when I understood words better than content more often than not.
If you're looking for an in-depth fantasy world that changes your life, this is not it.
But they take longer than my lunch break to read, and always cheer me up.
When this is the kind of book I'm looking for, I couldn't ask for anything more.
With this book, Anthony continues to inject a more grown-up feel into the world of Xanth.
The main premise is the kidnapping of the centaur Che by goblins and the efforts of his friends to find him and work out a deal for his release.
Throughout this story, the characters also deal with critical relationships with each other, one in particular being a matter of life or death.
The reader will also notice Anthony's continued foray into sexuality, human and fantasy creature alike.
The writing contains less puns than previous Xanth novels, but he seems to broach the more mature subjects with an adolescent oft-pun style.
SUMMARY:LovelornLoveworn Love LostPerplexed Prince Dolph, Xanth's precocious shapeshifter, should be in love but isn't. Nonetheless, he must chose between two fiancées -- Nada the uninterested and Electra the uninteresting -- or all three of them will suffer the most dire consequences. Luckily a convenient catastrophe has popped up to distract Dolph form his dilemma -- the foal-napping of young Che Centaur by goblins. And the only one who knows where Che is is a nice but remarkably naive elflike gir named Jenny from the World of Two Moons. If anyone can save the missing centaur...she sure can't.
Isle of View, or I LOVE YOU in punnish Xanthese is the name of Piers' thirteenth Xanthish offering. We all should have this guys problem, two many options! Positively perplexed Prince Dolph, Xanth's precocious shapeshifter, should be in love but isn't. So, he must make a decision to choose between two fiancées, Nada and Electra, or the three of them will suffer heinous consequences. A horse napped foal provides a welcome convenient catastrophe to distract Dolph from his dilemma.Remember, never betroth and run!!!
A decent romp through Xanth, even if I knew that Che was never in any real trouble. The worst part of the book is Jenny Elf, probably the very first Mary Sue to ever make it in fiction. Not only is she an elf from another place (in this case, a comic books series), but she has the magic ability to solve all the problems the plot dictates.Look, I like Xanth novels for 2 reasons: the puns and the quest and sometimes even the plot. This book has the quest and the puns, but it's very thin on plot.
I really should have loved a book about winged centaurs more. Don't get me wrong, I loved it but I found myself thinking,"get on with it!"a little too much. I wish the book had more Dolph, Electra, and Nalda and less goblins. I also didn't like the thesaurus demon.The ending made up for the books slow parts though, I really enjoyed watching Dolph truly see Electra. And my heart swelled for Electra as she spent her wedding night, it was sweet and romantic. I never expected such a sweetly romantic scene from Xanth.

"Any woman looks beautiful in her wedding dress."This is one of my favorite Xanth novels so far: the characters are all amazing. We get a foal-napped Che Centaur (a winged centaur), Jenny Elf (from the Land of Two Moons) and her cat Sammy - plus we get to see a resolution of the whom will Dolph marry debacle of a few books ago, Electra or Nada, and I love the choice! Plus a new world is introduced, many new magical talents, and lots of new faces who we'll be seeing a lot more of!
