https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/28760.Magic_s_Promise
A depleted & exhausted Vanyel returns from the battle front, only to discover that his family insist on his presence at home—not the most restful place for the young man.
If that wasn’t enough, he has to deal with his former master-at-arms and the local priest, both of whom made his younger life miserable.However, Vanyel is now a hero, his exploits sung about by the bards, and he & his companion, Yfandes, are called to rescue another young man & Companion during their visit.
Demonstrating his magic, skill, bravery, and good judgement, Vanyel is able to start the healing journey for his family relationships.Book number 268 in my Science Fiction and Fantasy reading project.
It's Tashir's new Companion's distress that they heard, as Lores thinks he's a demon and is whipping him.Vanyel rescues the boy, who looks scarily like his long-dead life-bonded love, Tylendel, and whisks him off to the family estate while he and Savil try to figure out what really happened.The character development of the first book is something that really impressed me, and it continues here.
Ylsa and Karen from Arrows of the Queen were probably the first gay characters I ever read, and as a little ten-year-old trying to figure out her sexual orientation, I completely idolized Vanyel.
She was obviously trying to be inclusive and helpful with this trilogy, and I think she could have done better.Another thing that has been bothering me more about Mercedes Lackey's books as I've gotten older is that while she's willing to have gay characters as good people, she tends disproportionately toward writing evil, sexually predatory, usually bisexual men as villains.
Final Rating: 4/5  Then I sang you a love song. The first one I ever sang for you. It was the first time I’d ever sung one with my heart in it.  Well, while the second book is definitely not on the murder spree of my emotions (thankfully) like the first one was, it took on an actual murder spree mystery with around 50 dead - a royal family massacred, with a disinherited prince left the only one alive, second royal family, a very greedy uncle, a family reunion long incoming, vacations and assassi

I think that's because it is primarily a book tying up the loose ends of book one (such as Jervis and Father Leren) while setting up book three (establishing why Vanyel becomes distant from almost everyone, the growing chasm between "ordinary" Heralds and Herald-Mages).There are some incredibly well-done moments--this is still a strong Lackey book (and head and shoulders above the current disasters set in this world).
I like the resolution--both in that moment and the way it plays out in the future.That said, there are weak plot points as well.
Easily the best book of the trilogy; the relationships here felt the most genuine, the plot unfurled organically rather than being tacked on in the last thirty pages, and sometimes it's nice to read about a main character who's just really awesome at a lot of things. Many of the problems I had with the first book where also present in Magic's Promise, but my least favorite elements of the first book (the romance, the Hawkbrothers, and the "Powerful Enemy From Out Of Nowhere") were not present in this book, so it was easy to forgive smaller things.
Re-read 2018I'm dipping into some of my favorite books to take a break from my more serious reading for college classes. Vanyel and his lousy luck are one of my favorite things to read about. It makes things I'm going through seem not as bad. Re-read 2017I love Van and the journey he takes to adulthood and being one of the main Heralds in Valdemar. I do feel bad for everything he has to go through to try to save his country.
I really liked the first part of the story with Van getting some rest and meeting up with his family and finding some surprises, being able to let things go, having some old hurts starting to heal - even though he found some new hurts too.
*hugs him so much* I like that Van had to question himself on who he is and who he loves.
That you can love a friend and that a lover is also a friend.Sometimes there have been events referred to that I didn't know about.
But, sometimes I felt a bit lost in that regard.Also, I'm kind of scared to start reading the third book.
SHRUGS i mean??? its not BAD i guess????ok but like, to be honest, theres one thing really bothering me about this book tho? like i mentioned before, other sexualities than straight and gay dont exist in this book apparently? its so black and white tbh? PLUS what REALLY BOTHERED ME is that they made up this whole weird ass term for being gay, like, just litterally translating the word gay to this nonsense fantasy world term i cant even remember because its such a long and obnoxious word and tbh?
like i mentioned before, other sexualities than straight and gay don´t exist in this book apparently?
PLUS what REALLY BOTHERED ME is that they made up this whole weird ass term for being gay, like, just litterally translating the word gay to this nonsense fantasy world term i cant even remember because its such a long and obnoxious word and tbh?
it feels a little like the author was litterally so afraid of jsut like, calling these characters gay that she had to MAKE UP AN ENTIRE NEW WORD FOR IT idk it makes me kinda uncomfortablebut i mean?
The second volume of a trilogy always has big shoes to fill, to maintain the energy of the first book, keep the momentum of the story rolling into the third book, and yet leave the reader satisfied that the second is a complete story rather than just a lead-in to the third.This book picks up 12 years after the first book, when Herald-Mage Vaneyl grown into his potential, but remains heartsore over his lost lover, exhausted by his own deeds in defense of his country, and emotionally wrung out over the fear and awe his own legend inspires in everyone he meets.
Through the encouragement of both the King and his friend and his more formidable Aunt Savil, Vanyel sets out to join his family.Now things are still strained between him and his father Withen.
Because of the political ramifications of the act Vanyel, Savil, and a few others must quickly figure out what happened before it's too late.This is a brilliantly written book about family secrets and dynamics and what happens when those dynamics break down and the secrets are too dangerous to allow to come out.
I think that Misty has created the most unique and detailed magic system I've ever read, frankly.
I like all those technical details, oddly enough.One thing that really irritates me about this book is: why is there a war going on?
I didn't pay attention to that detail at first, because throughout the Valdemar series, Valdemar and Karse are pretty much always fighting, but since there was no mention of a war going on in Pawn, then it's pretty obvious that the problems started in Vanyel's lifetime.
Full review here:http://jamesgenrebooks.blogspot.com/2...While I still have issues with Vanyel's portrayal in this particular volume, age and experience suggest it's much more realistic of grief than I'd care to admit.
I’m not sure why he thinks this will be restful since his father despises him because of his sexual orientation and his mother is constantly parading young ladies before him, but perhaps Vanyel has a sense of familial duty.
I’m sorry to say this, but it’s really hard to read this and not think of those Catholic priests.As before, the rest of the plot of Magic’s Promise feels like it’s of secondary importance, but at least it’s slightly interesting this time because Vanyel has to solve a murder mystery that involves physical and sexual child abuse, possible incest, a peace treaty, a greedy uncle, and a magical node.
Gone is the whiny and insecure teenager we knew from the previous book, replaced by an older and wiser man, one who has seen far too many battles, and far too many dear friends fall in the line of duty.We have, in short, someone who's quite earned his chance to be a nervous wreck.What starts off in a fairly boring way (Vanyel returning to his family home for a rest) quickly gets the action going when he and his Companion receive an urgent call for help, and quickly get embroiled in a murder investigation, political and magical assassination, and something that, improperly handled, could devestate more than two countries with a spectacularly large and magically-triggered earthquake.Business as usual, then.When I'd first read this series, I was much younger, in my teens, and this book was my least favourite of the trilogy.
I was jarred from the beginning when I surprisingly realized that this book takes place 10 years after Magic’s Pawn. So as I’m reading along and trying to get into it, in the back of my mind I’m hungry for the Valdemar short stories that will fill in this time gap. I assume what I miss is how Vanyel learns to control his awesome ability and how he deals with his loneliness. In Magic’s Promise Vanyel discovers that his friends, family, and the population are not leery of him because of his sexua
In Magic’s Promise Vanyel discovers that his friends, family, and the population are not leery of him because of his sexual preference, but are scared of him because of his power.
For me, this book doesn’t get good until Van and Yfandes cross the border into Highjorune and find the palace that sits on top of a very powerful node.
Also somehow Vanyel finds himself forced into taking a more authoritative and active role in his own family.
Emotions run high for me when Van desperately attempts to prevent a war between Valdemar and Lineas without sacrificing his own life.
And then Ms Lackey goes on to paint me pictures, like "Birds chirped news at each other right outside his window." Or this, when Vanyel hears Yfandes' voice in his head: "Yfandes' mind-voice was yellow and effervescent with amusement." And then she describes Vanyels sadness thus:"He found himself smiling, a smile with tears on the edge of it, but smiling." Brilliant language.
***I was NOT asked to read this book by anyone.
I paid for it with my own money, as I do for all the books I read, all the music I listen to and the movies I watch.
It may interest those who have read this book to know that Mercedes Lackey also put out a cassette/CD based in the Last Herald Mage trilogy. You can sample some of the songs on YouTube, although the only place to buy it is from the Firebird Arts and Music website. The songs below are all from "Shadow Stalker" (as far I know).Magic's PriceShadow StalkerThe Shadow LoverDemonbaneWindrider UnchainedMy Lady’s EyesNightbladesWeb of LightThe ColddrakeVrondi’s EyesEarth SpiritHawk BrotherThe Herald’s Creed
The fabulous Herald-Mage Vanyel Ashkevron decides to take a vacation after pretty single-handedly defeating Karse in a border war.
This and other magical displays have grown Vanyel from the hurting, uncertain sixteen year-old from Magic's Pawn to the twenty-eight year-old hero of all Valdemar.
In spite of these themes, Vanyel is a much stronger character than he was in the first book.
That mourning has made Vanyel mostly celibate, which is surprising in these books, but I don't think it has as much to do with him being gay in light of the rest of his characterization.I think this may be my favorite trilogy among the Valdemar novels.
The plot can be summed up so easily in a few sentences but the actual story is about Vanyel and his internal turmoil.In fact a HUGE portion of this book is just Vanyel questioning everything: himself, his abilities, his weariness, his comrades, his friends, his enemies.
For example, just like the first book, half of it is almost solely devoted to Vanyel's gayness.Now I LOVE the fact that a main character in a fantasy novel is gay.
Vanyel questions his own gayness nearly every chapter until the end and it's just like .
I'm just tired of seeing fictional worlds where being gay is not accepted for no reason
A fun, powerful fantasy epic of overpowered superheroes bashing away at villainous villains.
Everyone assumes Vanyel is a pedophile because he is gay, but he has no pedophilic tendencies, because that is evil.
which is a bit more positive.But given all the changes in characters from Magic's Pawn to this book, I'm not sure it is the same world.
Vanyel seems to have different powers and talents and seems constantly depressed.
It's really a bit depressing.
Those are cheesy romance novels in a slightly fantastical world.
This is a fantasy world of battles and grand magic that usually has romantic elements.
ahhhh...
chercherz shay'a'chern.
It's book two, and without giving away spoilers...Vanyel goes home to deal with his past, mainly his father, an abusive weaponsmaster, Jervis, a lady seeking his favors, and his mother.
Can he accept who he is, let others know, and receive their acceptance?After dealing with that funky business, it's back to work (he's a mage now) and back to keeping people at a distance.
Because he fears his enemies will try and get to him through his friends.He is pursued, and must confront his personal desires versus the safety of others.
All the while, mages are dying off one by one, and Vanyel is on the case.
The rating reflects my re-reading of this series.
When I first read it, as a teenager, it would have given every star I could have assigned it.
I've been reading another series where it feels like very single day of the saga is described, and it was a relief to have the author make a decision and structure the novel accordingly.
I understand the reason for epics, I do -- but sometimes, you want to read a novel, not a daily diary the size of an encyclopedia set.
Oops! I had Magic's Promise and Magic's Pawn out of order on the shelf and grabbed book 2 first, so you get two #readinghistory books for the price of one today. Promise is definitely a bridge book with not much impact on the character arc, but I love this whole trilogy so much that they're all five stars to me. :D
Just read this in my literary revisit of Valdemar. Of the three books in the trilogy, this may be the strongest but I do wish that more of the events in Vanyel's life had made it into print. Yes, we get the highlights and the most important events but so much is skipped over or just referred to obliquely that I sometimes feel that there might have been three more books at least.
There is quite a time jump between this and the first, Vanyel is no longer a teenager; he's a full grown adult, grown in to his Herald-Mage abilities, serving the front lines for years now.
We come in to this book, with him coming back after serving a year on a war border alone, doing the work of five.
Luckily, he's given some time off, and he's returning home to Forst Reach, which after you've read the first, doesn't sound like a real vacation.
My only problem I've ever had with reading Lackey's book is that sometimes I question who edited them.
This is a tiring book to read, in part because practically every chapter has a moment when Vanyel or his crew fall into bed in utter exhaustion.
I recommend this book to the die hard Lackey fans that want all the holes filled in when they read the later books in the chronology—Vanyel’s books are important to understand The Mage Winds trilogy, and those books are necessary to understand The Mage Wars.
:/ But I guess Lackey wanted to write about All The Struggles a gay man might face, like when you’re too gorgeous and accidentally lead women on because you didn’t immediately out yourself to them.
3.5 There were things I liked better about this book, and things I didn't, so it gets the same rating as the first.
What I didn't like is how he questioned himself on whether he was really gay through the whole damn book.
A twelve year, who also happens to be his nephew.
And then he rescues a boy who's only a few years older and he thinks of seducing him at one point because he looks like Tylendel, and then he questions what's wrong with him.
Add that to the frustrations listed above, and that's where the 3.5 rating comes from.
At first, I was upset at the jump between a teenage Vanyl and his adult self since I wanted to see his training and development into one of the strongest herald-mages.
I think his character is more mature for sure, and honestly, I'm glad he's so powerful and trained because I want to see him kick butt.
Until the end, this is a typical "middle of the series" story with little character development, semi-memorable moments, and new characters that won't be important until the next book.
The ending took me off guard during the first read-through because of an important moment for later, and it hinted at how the companions come to be.
Lackey was one of the first authors I read who not only featured gay characters, but made them main characters and made then whole, dynamic characters.In this, the second of the Last Herald Mage books, we see main character Vanyel struggle with the loss of his lover, but also with the complicated and shifting dynamics with his closest friends.
The plot - a mystery - becomes almost secondary to the emotional landscape of Vanyel and his journey to revisit his childhood.
This book held up very well to a reading almost two decades later, and I am so pleased to rediscover the work of Valdemar and Lackey's imagination.
