https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/80447.The_Portable_Nietzsche
Then, having been at loggerheads with the DesPlaines draft board for some time for resistance, I was notified that proceedings against me were soon to begin.Paying my own way through school, the prospect of being pulled from school in the middle of a term was too much to risk.
Furthermore, he, like myself, was, according to Kaufmann's remarks, a social misfit and idealist.Oh, although it has nothing to do with philosophy except that it may have scotched my chance to become a precocious one, the DesPlaines draft board was twice torched that summer.
Just finished reading "Thus Spoke Zarathustra," this weird hybrid of philosophy, biography, myth and poetry.
It is best read in the open air, as I did, much of it, in Central Park, American elms arching above the Literary Walk to form the vaulted ceiling of a cathedral.
The radical difference in Z's gospel is that God is dead, and man must find his ultimate value in himself, in overcoming himself, or, in Nietzschean terms, in becoming an overman.
The ultimate sign of acceptance and overcoming is a desire for eternal recurrence, not just of bliss, but also of agony.
The Portable Nietzsche is a collection of Friedrich Nietzsche's books.
I was familiar with Nietzsche's blasphemous assertion before picking up the book.
I was not aware of the fact that, according to Nietzsche, we killed God. He died of his pity for us.
Der Ubermann (The Overman) is Nietzsche's ideal, a final post-theology stage of evolution for humans.
I am not certain that Nietzsche believed that The Overman is attainable.
Overall, this book was excellent.
The most interesting book was The Antichrist, even though it is said that the book was written while Nietzsche was in the depths of dementia.
I didn't finish it. Life is too short. His mother should have made him go play outside.Last night I couldn't sleep. I went to the porch and had a smoke. A hare came zipping across my driveway and around the corner of the house. My cat spotted it, jumped off the window sill and rushed to the storm door where he bumped his head against the still closed window. Had Nietzsche been there he would have laughed, too, I just know it.
Walter Kaufmann is the man responsible for Nietzsche studies in the English speaking world, and the collection he edited of Nietzsche's writings is outstanding.
The book has several complete works: "Thus Spoke Zarathustra," Nietzsche's opus about the philosopher-king character Zarathustra; "Antichrist" and "Twilight of the Idols," both shorter, more mature works; "Ecce Homo," Nietzsche's exceedingly narcissistic study on himself; and "Nietzsche Contra Wagner," which is self-explanatory.
The book also has selections from almost all of Nietzsche's other works, as well as selections from his notebooks and letters.
Kaufmann has provided extensive footnotes that allow one to keep up with Nietzsche's often subtle references as well as the nuances that do not translate from German to English.
Definitely one of the greatest philosophers in the Western Tradition. Set the stage for just about every political, or philosophical trend in the 20th century. From his misinterpretation by the Nazi's (he was not an anti-semite) to his inspiration of deconstruction, post-modern thought, and just about every subsequent thought in the continental tradition besides Marxism, this book is a must for anyone who wants to begin to understand how to live life. Probably the greatest psychologist that has ever lived.
In many ways, Nietzsche finally said what was always implicit in Western philosophy - that truth and knowledge were simply a matter of concensus and control, and that freedom was the privelege of the rare few who could descend from the heights of man's "truth" and create their own values.
His philosophy was not the sinister precursor to the Nazi totalitarian state, but a benediction to the willful few to create new life-affirming morals and values to replace the religious values that he accused of being obsessed with judgment and revenge.Much of his early writings were aphorisms, which were short polemic statements of a few sentences or maybe a page that make for very interesting bedside and bathroom reading.
This still remains the best one-volume introduction to Nietzsche that has been produced in English to date. Although Walter Kaufmann's scholarship and Nietzsche translations have long since been superseded by better versions (the recent Cambridge and Stanford editions prominent among them), they remain eminently readable, and the range of Nietzsche's work that is covered here, from his early to his late work (and you get the complete texts of "Zarathustra," "The Antichrist," "Twilight of the Idols," and "Nietzsche contra Wagner"), offers a perfect overview for the newcomer.
This book is a great complement to "Basic Writings of Nietzche". The other book should be read first, however. Please refer to my other review on Nietzche (as I do not have enough room to copy it) for a more complete analysis. There were some additional points I wish to cover:1. Nietzsche is very difficult to understand, and has hence been the most misinterpreted philosopher of all time.The belief that he was a Nazi, that he is an anti-semite, and misinterpretations and misuse of his overman/sup
3.	Nietzsche is very harsh on Christianity.“God is dead.
And we have killed him”This may insult some, as Nietzsche has no respect for Christianity (although he has some positive feelings regarding the first testament).
It may appear that his whole philosophy at times is an attack of Christianity (“the Antichrist”?), but this is going too far.
Instead, Christianity is the system which Nietzsche attacks the most because it is the most powerful and direct contradiction to his philosophy on life.
Some people and movements source this with the justification of eugenics, but I'm not too clear on Nietzsche views on eugenics.In the Übermensch philosophy there is the often quoted and mostly misunderstood "God is dead." which pissed off a lot of Christians.So Nietzsche was and is a very controversial figure in philosophy, especially in our time.I enjoyed this read, and will read this again.I'm not sure if I follow his philosophy exactly, but he does know how to write.“Beware that, when fighting monsters, you yourself do not become a monster...
It's like reading the ramblings of a mental patient
If there is to be art, if there is to be any aesthetic doing and seeing, one physiological condition is indispensable: frenzy.
Frenzy must first have enhanced the excitability of the whole machine; else there is no art.
All kinds of frenzy, however diversely conditioned, have the strength to accomplish this: above all, the frenzy of sexual excitement, this most ancient and original form of frenzy.
What is essential in such frenzy is the feeling of increased strength and fullness.
Out of this feeling one lends to things, one forces  them to accept from us, one violates them -- this process is called idealizing.
what's up with that?*my reservations about his antipathy toward "equality" and his embrace of hierarchy were never completely resolved, but, based on Zarathustra, i'm relatively sure that they are primarily intended as motivational devices with benevolent intent.
i have an especially hard time sympathizing with his fawning admiration of the ancient Greeks, which is at odds with his equally strong dislike of "convictions".
this utopian anti-egalitarian current rubs me the wrong way but doesn't completely turn me off.
i'll reserve judgment for the moment.*i found the Antichrist to be a relatively accessible critique of Christianity that is far more interesting than Dawkinsian (apologies) arguments.
culture is just more interesting than science.
I picked this book up years ago in a secondhand bookstore because it had the full text of Thus Spoke Zarathustra.
Little did I know I'd just bought the best introduction to Nietzsche that I've come across to date.
This contains excerpts and several full texts which span Nietzsche's entire writing career, which gives the person reading him for the first time a vastly more comprehensive feel for his philosophy than can be had from some other Nietzsche collections which are mostly a hodge-podge of quotes stripped out of their context.
I think this volume deserves a place on the bookshelf of any budding Nietzsche scholar.
Hitler was inspired by his views, but Nietzsche does push you to think critically of your own beliefs and why people believe the things they do.
The book is pretty dry though, so take these quotes of all you need to know of Nietzsche.
Here are some of my favorite Nietzsche quotes:1) "What does not kill me makes me stronger."2) "The vanity of others runs counter to our taste only when it runs counter to our vanity."3) "There are no facts, only interpretations." 4) "Not that you lied to me but that I no longer believe you - that is what has distressed me."
Nietzsche is brilliant but not a fun or easy read. He, like many philosophers wrote essays on topics and not stories. I will argue that Zarathrustra while containing some interesting thoughts was a boring read. I am very interested by the man and his philosophical views but despise the style of essay that he wrote in.
Sure, he’s got his opinions, many of which are fascinating, and we can brand these “his philosophy.” Nonetheless, Nietzsche fails to be a philosopher, as such, simply because he doesn’t offer any arguments.
Apparently, our world is not quite ready for the overman: Nietzsche, using Zarathustra as his mouthpiece, is merely preparing us for his arrival.“What is good?
Or did you once experience a tremendous moment when you would have answered him, ‘You are a god, and never have I heard anything more godly.’”MoralityThe overman sees beyond good and evil: morality, in Nietzsche’s estimation, is an illusion.
Nietzsche, the sane of the philosophers of life, is necessary for our humanity. His anti-political stances, his disdain for the morality of the few, his support for the arts are still needed today. This reader is not a basic one, it contains full texts, letters and important excerpts.
A poor title for such an organized work of importance of Nietzsche scholar, Walter Kaufman.
The first 102 pages contain excerpts of his earliest works; Thus Spoke Zarathustra is the first book contained in full, starting on page 103.Thus Spoke ZarathustraI was familiar with Nietzsche's writings before reading this, but I was quite surprised to find out how different this was from his other works.
Nietzsche was truly one of a kind.There are many chapters that criticize different personalities, and how their flaws in thinking and character prevent humanity from achieving the greatness that will create the "superman." The superman is what men will become once they finally live up to Zarathustra's vision.
Considering the fact that Kaufmann is an exemplary Nietzsche scholar, the commentary here is sorely disappointing; though I suppose this can be attributed to the nature of the compilation itself. Otherwise, this is a great place to go for most of Nietzsche's thought wrapped into one volume. The inclusion of his magnificently insightful notebooks and lesser known, albeit incredibly significant pieces ("Truth and Lie in an Extramoral Sense", etc) make this worthy as well.
I have previously read, and also own, all of the complete Nietzsche texts included in this companion, but the notes and letters included in "The Portable Nietzsche" are a great way to really peak into the mind of the great existentialist of the 19th century. Also, the main reason I purchased this is simply because the Kauffman translations are invaluable.
A good, concise introduction to Nietzsche and his philosophy, from a commentator who actually understands his frequently misinterpreted writings. It's not hard to see why he has had such an influence on modern and post-modern philosophy. Essential reading for anybody with philosophical aptitude.
Wow this guy is twisted, but has a lot of good perspectives. He's a kind of high colonic for certain superstitions and emotional constipation. Maybe an over-correction but sometimes thats what a species needs.
A lot of things Nietzsche mentions are true and enlightening. This is another book that I've flipped through as it (I think) a collection of all of Nietzsche's books. I plan on sitting down and reading the book properly in the future. Definitely a great read.
-So far I've just read "The Anti-Christ" from this anthology.-Just finished the essay "Truth and Lie in an Extra Moral Sense"
I love this book
In a sentence: He's significantly more positive than I had initially thought.(But still kinda grumpy.)
Since one way of reading this poem is as a commentary on and reply to Faust’s apostrophe to the moment, “Stay, thou art so fair”, in Faust Part 2, and since the closing lines of that work are alluded to and critiqued several times in the course of the book, Thus Spoke Zarathustra might also be considered as Nietzsche’s Faust, Part 3.Kaufmann claims that Part Four was originally intended as an “intermezzo” and not the conclusion of the book.
Even though that idea fits certain statements, like that just quoted, it’s hard for me to believe that Nietzsche meant the term in that way: he offers nothing like a program of eugenics or makes anything like biological predictions.
The last six months of my life were spent studying the life and works of Friedrich Nietzsche.
He was always an enigma to me growing up, and I felt this was the right time to climb his peaks.
I felt I could finally understand him.
After reading through eight of his works (twice...each!), I feel as though I do.
What struck me the hardest about Nietzsche, especially with this book, was the wealth of ideas.
Most books that I buy or get from the library have one, or maybe a couple, ideas and themes.
I lived the book I read.
I have never experienced a book with this many ideas.
