https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/59829.Dance_Upon_the_Air
La historia es bonita, Nora es una buena narradora: la isla, el mar, la comida (que alguien me dé bollos de canela).
Gracias que al final, Nell le corresponde y la relación se "equilibra" un poco.
Las tres estrellas se las he dado por pura piedad y porque la isla es mágica.Creo que es una trilogía, he leído la sinopsis de cada libro y es básicamente una historia de amor por libro.
Pero si sois feministas os hará rechinar los dientes en más de una ocasión y rezaréis por la muerte de Zack.
It was the first Nora Roberts novel I read and it got me hooked on her stuff.I enjoyed every aspect of the book.
So often in romance novels these days the hero is a super-alpha, or a dark and brooding alpha or a tragic alpha - which there's nothing wrong with, I love a good alpha male; it's just nice to get some variety once in a while.
Their story is one that makes me smile while reading it.I also love Nell's overall story in this book.
All around, it's just a fun read; one of my favorites by Roberts and one that I like to reread from time to time.
This book is absolutely wonderful <3Beautiful romance, the whole mood of the book is swoony and feel-good (well,except for the abusive husband thing), but it made me happy from page one to last.
Leer a Nora Roberts siempre es un acierto. Y, como no, en esta ocasión también lo ha sido. Me ha encantado leer de su pluma a las brujas modernas, con sus escobas y filtros y, también, el tema tan duro como es el maltrato.
Took me awhile to like Zack. A few of his comments hit me wrong, especially when he asked her why she didn't just leave her abusive husband. Then her character went off track for me, too. She says she won't sleep with him because she is still legally married, then a few chapters later she jumping on him in the doorway.  But the story is wonderful! Full of magic and love. Also the two main characters become more likable in the end. 😁 BTW the audio is not great. She gives Nell a little girl voice that grates. 😬🙉
4.5 StarsThis had a Sleeping With the Enemy  vibe, you know that Julia Roberts' film from the 90's? I think this had a more lighthearted feel to it overall, but a similar concept. Loved everything from the setting of an East Coast island complete with lighthouse and witch-lore, to the food. Of course our lively heroine, who emerges from an abusive relationship, gets her confidence back, and falls in love was my favorite part. Zack, the irresistible Sheriff, came in at a close second. Looking forward to Mia's story the most, but Ripley, Zack's sister, is next.
But wait!Magic mirror, on the wall - who is the biggest dick of them all?*GASP* It's Zack!!!!Congratulations Sheriff, please come collect your award while we look back on your lowest fucking moments!(For context: so far Nell's been nervous and on edge every time they talked, she flinched when he touched her, had a panic attack when she thought people would be angry with her for forgetting to make a salad.
Hasta que algo ocurrió, y la maldición cayó sobre la isla y sus descendientes.La historia empieza cuando Nell, una mujer asustada y valiente escapa de su marido, un maltratador que ha hundido su autoestima y su vida, para poder empezar de cero con una nueva identidad.
Además, al tratarse de una trilogía en la que cada una de las mujeres principales —Nell, Ripley y Mia— es protagonista de una de las novelas, la primera parte cumple su función de introducir todos los elementos necesarios para que la historia general —la de la isla, la maldición, la magia y el destino— se vaya desarrollando poco a poco a lo largo de las tres novelas.Sí, es Romántica.
Catering a party with 100+ guests all by yourself while still working full-time elsewhere seems like it would be near impossible, yet it was described as being a piece of cake.I would also like to actually see Nell attempt baking 10 different kinds of pastries every day in a small kitchen that is not well-equipped (her words) and a newly acquired kitten running around.
It was a just a little too hapy-go-lucky for me, with everything perfectly falling into place, but I did enjoy it enough to be intrigued by the other two books.
I'm looking forward to the other two, particularly Mia's book.
This was an enjoyable read, a bit fluffy and very predictable......It is the same story as the movie 'Sleeping With The Enemy' mixed with the TV series 'Charmed' as these 3 sisters definitely have 'The Power of Three'
I've just finished re-reading (for at least the fifth time) one of my favourite Nora Roberts books.
Dance Upon The Air. Although I love this book for many different reasons, witches, love, century old curse, new friends etc etc.The main female character Nell Channing is running away from her past.
And as the story evolves so does the character.
There's a few rather nice pieces about why she chose her name, and that "her name was Nell Channing now and always."I also fell in love with Zack Todd who Nell falls in love with.
I also liked the overall writing style--it flowed very well.However, I had a lot of problems with Zach, the "hero." When he first touches heroine Nell (on the hand or wrist, I don't remember) and she tenses up and becomes very uncomfortable, his reaction (instead of "Gee, maybe this woman doesn't want to be touched") is to tell her that he's going to make her like his touch.
What an asshat.I am going to give Roberts another shot because this was the first book of hers I read, but...well, she's got some ground to make up here.
5 stars - Contemporary/Paranormal RomanceLoved this one! A wonderful, feel-good romance and Zack was such a swoony hero!
I read it for a second time while I was waiting for a book order to come and I have to say that I enjoyed it again so very much!
The following review is from the first time I read it and I am not going to change anything!That was a very nice story!
I have to admit that while I was reading this book I had the feeling that I was a part of the town because of the amazing writing style!This is the story of Nell.
About half way through this book.
It's a fantasy romance about a woman who escapes an abusive marriage and starts a new life across the country.She is very nervous, distrustful, and not interested in another relationship.The thing that is disturbing me is that the romantic interest seems to be following in the same steps as a typical abuser; he doesn't listen to her when she says she doesn't want to be touched, he violates her personal space even though it scares her, and other dick moves.Her husband started out nice, too, but slowly eroded her confidence and sense of self.
4,5 estrellas para esta historia tan preciosa. Amor y magia, la mezcla perfecta. Contado de una manera sencilla y perfecta. Me han encantado los protagonistas y cómo se desarrolla todo. Estoy deseando leer la segunda parte.
It’s a lovely story.There is paranormal elements in here too but not too much.Both hero and heroine are sweet:)
2  stars. Nothing new or interesting about witch powers or escaping an abusive husband. I really liked The Witness and Angels Fall by this author. But this book was disappointing. The characters did not stand out. I felt like the author picked ordinary people to write about, and she just kept writing and writing. We see ordinary lives, working, making friends, having day to day conversations. The author is good at this. The conversations were interesting. But it didn’t make “a good story.” Nothi
Nothing new or interesting about witch powers or escaping an abusive husband.
It was like “the setting” for having a woman living with “a secret.”I like the idea of Nell discovering that she has some witch powers which she didn’t know about.
But again, the author didn’t do anything new or interesting with it.
But again, the author didn’t do anything new or interesting with it.
The two sequels have Mia and Ripley finding love.The best part was the guy Nell falls in love with - Zach, a typical romance novel hero.
Her voice for Nell (the heroine) sounded like a little girl.
Overall 3*I love Nora Roberts.
She is like comfort food when you want something easy and maybe a little cliche, without the classic chick-lit stupidity.
I am glad, because the magical element is just an aspect of the books, without the classical love potions that you would expect.
And most importantly, you ease into the magic, since it picks up gradually from the first book to the third, and it's not overwhelming.
I liked it, but I didn't love it.
If you want to read a Nora Roberts book and you have exhausted your options, go for it.
Nell is *such* an appealing character, and the spooky bits come at the end of the book.
I always enjoy this series, and it's difficult to keep myself from downloading and reading straight through parts #2 and #3 of this trilogy, ignoring the other books I'm currently reading or listening to.
The narrator of the audiobooks is very good, distinguishing among the various female voices, though she's not quite so good at doing the few male parts.
However, she gets a nice scary, manic quality in the voice she uses for Nell's obsessed husband.
She gets involved in a relationship with Zack Todd the islands sheriff and is mostly accepted and loved by the island society.However, without some hardship, there is no story, so things happen….both in her relationship and outside of it.The book includes characters that are very typical to the romance genre:The beautiful, resourceful, kind, innocent, lovable and strong heroine.The "unpolished gem" type male character, kind, loving, a bit rough on the sides, honest, strong morals, down to earth and semi macho type.There is an attempt to deal with the issue of abused women and abusive men, but in a very shallow way.
I really enjoyed this romance. The main story line around a woman running from an abusive situation and finding a place to call home was just wonderful. I loved the characters, I loved the romance and I loved the little bit of witchcraft weaved into the story. Really eager to read the rest of the book s in the trilogy. This was a great start!


Por primera vez, Nell encontró un lugar al que poder llamar hogar, un lugar donde podría ser ella misma, donde dedicarse a lo que más le gusta, y también donde encontró lo que menos esperaba: el amor de otro hombre.Aquí es donde entra en acción Zack, el sheriff de la isla.
Si hay algo que no soporto en una novela es que los personajes no se comporten como esperas que lo hagan personas normales, por suerte, éste no ha sido el caso.
It also didn't surprise me that days of searching didn't turn up book three.[return][return]In Heaven and Earth, the focus switches to Ripley Todd, the quick-tempered deputy sheriff and Nell's sister-in-law.[return][return]While Nell freely embraced her powers and Mia never abandoned hers, Rip made a conscious decision to walk away.
This happened many years ago when Mia had her heart shattered by Sam Logan, another name that gets a lot of mention.[return] [return]Rip s troubles began when paranormal researcher MacAllister Booke arrived; sniffing around at the island s purported paranormal activities.
I think if you are a person that finds the Salem Witch Trials fascinating and tales of witches and folklore and descendants , chucked in with a sense of mystery, thriller , magic and finding yourself in a small cosy township, then the Three Sisters Island Trilogy is just what you need and Dance Upon the Air is just what you need to start the trilogy.
Dance Upon the Air by Nora Roberts has been on my re-read list for a few years now, but I never got around to it. When I realized that it would work for "on the run" on the Ripped Bodice's Bingo Sheet, I decided now was the time to finally re-read this one. It's Classic Nora Roberts, which isn't a bad thing at all. What's the Story? Nell Channing is on the run from her abusive husband. She's been running close to a year, and really wants to find a place to stay. When she arrives at Three Sisters
Dance Upon the Air by Nora Roberts has been on my re-read list for a few years now, but I never got around to it.
When I realized that it would work for "on the run" on the Ripped Bodice's Bingo Sheet, I decided now was the time to finally re-read this one.
It's Classic Nora Roberts, which isn't a bad thing at all.
Nell Channing is on the run from her abusive husband.
Town Sheriff Zack Todd is smitten with Nell the minute he sees her.
I loved the small island town.
I absolutely wanted Nell and Zack to be together.
I think that Roberts did a good job with understanding triggers and healing after an abusive relationship.
That he would not think that blaming our main character, Nell, for her fears, making everything about him ("you don't trust me" accusations whenever she said she did not/would not discuss something about her prior relationship), or yelling at her was significantly better than physical abuse or other forms of manipulation.
I can't get behind a story of healing that sends a character into a relationship with another jerk, especially when the entire cast of the novel keeps saying how great he is.
Maybe the cover appealed to me...I didn't start to read it until it was almost due back.
But it was a satisfying read despite its genre.
I don't want to tell the story here--enough reviewers have done that already.
However, you should know that it deals with the aftermath of spousal abuse so it's not going to appeal to everyone.
I would like to cavil with the reviewer who commented that Nell (the protagonist) was "weak" at the beginning.
Will I read the other books in the trilogy?
Well then, would I recommend Dance Upon the Air to a sister or a friend?
