https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/5024135-nyarlathotep
I know, I know… this is just the paranoid Democrat in me obsessing, but when I read the beginning of “Nyarlathotep,” I instantly thought of how I’ve felt in these months since Trump became president: I do not recall distinctly when it began, but it was months ago. The general tension was horrible. To a season of political and social upheaval was added a strange and brooding apprehension of hideous physical danger; a danger widespread and all-embracing, such a danger as may be imagined only in th
I know, I know… this is just the paranoid Democrat in me obsessing, but when I read the beginning of “Nyarlathotep,” I instantly thought of how I’ve felt in these months since Trump became president:
I do not recall distinctly when it began, but it was months ago.
The general tension was horrible.
I recall that the people went about with pale and worried faces, and whispered warnings and prophecies which no one dared consciously repeat or acknowledge to himself that he had heard.
3.5   Nyarlathotep, or the Crawling Chaos, is a gate keeper of sorts and he opens the way for other gods. He has many forms, but in this story he appears as a "tall, swarthy man" who seems to have more knowledge than anyone our narrator or people around him know. Supposedly he arrived from Egypt and he travels around demonstrating strange things and making people have nightmares. The narrator himself becomes one of his followers.
Nyarlathotep, Lovecraft’s 1920 “crawling chaos” addition to his fictional universe is a must read for Lovecraft fans.This very short work also demonstrates Lovecraft’s influence by Edgar Allen Poe as HP uses a more antiquated language, almost poetic in style.
Another difference of Nyarlathotep with other creations in Lovecraft’s world building is that this pre-Egyptian may be an earthling who answered a call rather than an Old One himself.
Also, unlike Cthulhu or Yog-Sothoth, Nyarlathotep is active and haunts the world now and in disguise.
Not as well-known as the Cthulhu mythos, Nyarlathotep is nonetheless an inspiring and influential addition to all things Lovecraftian.
A five to seven minute read.Lovecraft writes this with poetic grace, sweeps the reader into a world being overtaken by otherworldly beings and an ancient Egyptian god.Highly recommended! Pure delight and horror.
Lo leggo e ve ne parlo qui: https://youtu.be/A6DmFxeJCdA

I had no idea Nikola Tesla was so evil.
First, he creates a time machine (a la, Odd Apocalpyse), now he's an eldritch being from another dimension that likes entertaining people with electricity...
(view spoiler)[ before he ends the world of course (hide spoiler)]Okay...To be fair, this story was apparently inspired by a dream, which explains the strangeness and seeming lack of a point.
A dream starring Nikola Tesla of course!
Only Lovecraft would turn him into the infamous harbinger of doom, the crawling chaos, (view spoiler)[(and my favorite mythos god-- I'm so sorry Cthulhu, I still love you <3), (hide spoiler)] Nyarlathotep.
Lovecraft sure did have a strange mind.

This short story introduces one of Lovecraft's recurring "characters": Nyarlathotep.
He is here described as a tall, swarthy man who resembles an ancient Egyptian pharaoh.
In this story he wanders the earth, seemingly gathering legions of followers, the narrator of the story among them, through his demonstrations of strange and seemingly magical instruments.
These followers lose awareness of the world around them, and through the narrator's increasingly unreliable accounts the reader gets an impression of the world's collapse.The story is extremely short, to the point to being hard to enjoy.
While the story itself is only so-so and ends in confused horror, this Lovecraft classic created one of his most personable, lasting, and sinister characters. It also contains the line, "the hellish moon-glitter of evil snows," which demands respect. Not a bad 5 minute read at all!
It describes the ascent of an old powerful Race of Gods who ruled the Earth millions of years ago, who are again brought to life by Nyarlathotep, who has a human form but is in fact one of them, a sort of sleeper cell -gatekeeper.
Those are the signs, and those are the sins of Man which finally cause the Gatekeeper to wake and summon the Primal Gods.
On the screen images of death and demons alternate with the vision of Earth battling against the impeding darkness brought about by a cooling sun dimly shining over ruins of decrepit monuments and rotten cities.
Even the shortest of Lovecraft's works are amazing. He just has a way of making you understand the most unspeakable fear. Very short and worth the read.
A truly nightmarish vision of a horrifying, gothic landscape induced by the frenzied visions from the one called The Crawling Chaos.
Not so much a story, as an introduction of a character, one of my favorites from the Cthulhu mythos. Seems very fragmentary and incomplete.
I have to read Lovecraft more often!
Men advised one another to see Nyarlathotep, and shuddered.
And where Nyarlathotep went, rest vanished; for the small hours were rent with the screams of nightmare.
Never before had the screams of nightmare been such a public problem; now the wise men almost wished they could forbid sleep in the small hours, that the shrieks of cities might less horribly disturb the pale, pitying moon as it glimmered on green waters gliding under bridges, and old steeples crumbling against a sickly sky.Lovecraft is in his element in this richly worded short story of Nyarlathotep, a being from the stars who comes to Earth, gains a cult-like following, and causes the narrator to experience a few amazingly detailed and horrific hallucinations that read like the Book of Revelations.
Ніхто не знає, звідки з'явився Ньярлатхотеп. Сам він стверджує, що його домом був Єгипет 27 сотень років тому. Відомо тільки одне - куди приходить Ньярлатхотеп, там зникає спокій; глибокої ночі чутні крики тих, кому сняться кошмарні сни. На своїх виступах Ньярлатхотеп творить дива, і слава його шириться. Втім, одного разу глядачі зібралися достатньо скептичні, щоб обізвати Ньярлатхотера шарлатаном. Той вигнав їх і хай вони спочатку посміхалися, та почали нервово оглядатися, коли світло ліхтарів почало гаснути. Публіка пустилася врізнобіч і назавжди зникла у пітьмі.
I ... didn't get it. At. All. Something about the return of a Pharaoh, possibly causing apocalypse?(Moving 2015 review to separate work to make room under collection for review, September 2017. And I should note that at the urging of friends I will give this one another chance. After I finish the rest of Lovecraft.)
4.9I would give it a five but I want to save it for something truly perfect. God this was wonderful. The writing style was beautiful. It was short and vague. I simply love the style. I read it twice to make sure I understood it.4.7Actually, 4.7. I wish these stories has some sort of message or theme. Some substance.
I’m pretty sure this short story is at least 80% just description of things... which to me... leaves little to no actual substance.That being said, this is a clear influence to one of my favorite band’s (Dream Theater) song “The Dark Eternal Night”, with some phrasing lifted right from this story. That alone made me excited, and quite so.
3.5 My rating is largely to do with the opening and the image Lovecraft creates of Nyarmathotep.
6/10
Interest trip
Felt like a bunch of words sprinkled prettily together without much meaning.
Audiobook. Those words are magical
And it was then that Nyarlathotep came out of Egypt.
Vivid and moody short story.
this one was less interesting than Dagon, but Lovecraft's wording is so wonderful.
This is probably one of my favorite Lovecraft stories aside from The Shadow Out of Time and Pickman's model, and The Call of Cthulhu, but I always find something new every time I reread or listen to one of his stories.And when I hear "That is not dead which can eternal lie and in strange eons even death may die." I always shudder a little. Cthulhu could awake anytime now and I think I'd prefer him to Trump. They both haunt my dreams, but at least Cthulhu has charisma and a plan.
Bizarre.
