https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/39280445-nine-perfect-strangers
HER BEST YET.I said to my husband recently...
I just love the way I feel when I’m reading a Liane Moriarty book.
Like I'm surrounded by lovely, neurotic, warm, friends.
And Liane has done it again with this wonderful book about nine strangers who go to a health retreat.
As always, Liane's observations about life are just so damn spot on.
I sort of wanted to go to that retreat ...
The book is funny and sad and touching, and full of wisdom.
All the feels.
I feel so lucky to have read an early copy.Five stars.
Liane Moriarty's latest offering is a hugely enjoyable psychological thriller that is pure fun and entertainment whilst incorporating a look beneath the issues of a wide cast of characters and the moving stories that lie behind the facade of their everyday lives.
The narcissistic, remote and humourless Masha has plans for them which she is certain will truly transform their lives and which will presage a glorious and glittering future with her in the limelight, enjoying global acclaim.There is plenty of sly humour and wit in Moriarty's story of madness and mayhem at a health resort, where people with little in common with each other find themselves in circumstances where they form unexpected bonds and undergo unexpected transformations.
While it might have been a better idea to go on a cruise or some other vacation, they hope that the time to meditate and reflect might help them move past these issues.These people and others expect that their stay won't be all pampering and relaxation, but they're not prepared for all that the health resort is going to throw at them.
I did like the way she tied things up with some of her characters, but I was really disappointed on the whole.I hate when you've been waiting for an author you like to come out with a new book and it disappoints.
Frances- former bestselling romance author- ironically the victim of a romance con/scamLars- divorce attorney representing women onlyTony- former professional sports starNapoleon, Heather, and Zoe- family coming apart at the seamsCaramel- Husband dumped her for a younger woman- wants to lose weight – gain positive self -image Ben and Jessica – marriage on the rocks after winning the lotteryMasha- Head guru- health spa ownerNine people, all from very different walks of life, arrive at Tranquillum House, a highly recommended health resort.
This book is not like Moriarty’s previous novels, which usually centered around the family unit, providing a taut element of suspense, blended with humor and sarcasm.
I adored this book right from the very start and had me laughing out loud numerous times and then at other times gasping out loud in shock for the pain that some of these characters were suffering.LIANE MORIARTY delivers quite the fascinating, intriguing, vulnerable, lifelike, and beautifully written read here with quirky and realistic characters, a brazen and dynamic premise and an extremely spellbinding and enthralling storyline.
The nine guests were perfectly imperfect!Writing/Prose: Well-written, engaging, captivating, witty, intelligent and smart.Plot: Intriguing, clever, thought-provoking, suspenseful, perfectly-paced, absorbing, enjoyable and highly entertaining.Ending: Clever and totally satisfying.
Each of the spa clients has an Important and Topical Issue to fret over: body image issues, menopause, social media addiction, death in the family, starting a family, plastic surgery addiction, the list keeps coming; you get the picture.
And don’t even get me started on the book's single obligatory romance, which takes place (view spoiler)[entirely in the epilogue between two characters who have no chemistry whatsoever.
But the novel is really more like Fantasy Island goes to (view spoiler)[hell, (hide spoiler)] and the many unrelated characters' stories are connected very loosely by that hokey Fantasy Island plot device: they're all there at the same time to Change Their Lives.
If nothing else I’m obsessed with the way that she uncovers her characters individual foibles and indiosyncracies in the most amusing and hilarious ways poking fun at so many common cliches and stereotypes it’s hard not to snigger along at the characters expense but all light heartedly of course!
In all her characters there is always something to relate to even if intially you find nothing in common from the outer.
Anyway I have no plans to discuss the plot, read this if your already a big fan of Liane Moriarty’s books, if not then this book won’t change your mind.
Seriously, I don't know if I loved this book or absolutely hated it.
Half way through I was done with it...but, there is a pull to keep you reading to see what happens to the Idiotic Nine, whom I also loved and hated.
There are 10-11 storylines in the book all told sporadically from each of their points of view.
It wasn't confusing in the least, but it did get rather boring, especially for the characters that I didn't like.
Perhaps if it had been more selectively edited I would have enjoyed it more but, as it was, it is a book I will forget by next week.
I love how Liane Moriarty starts a story all sweet with likeable characters, then slowly a foreboding veil comes across the story and people’s dark side begins to emerge changing a good story into a compelling story.Nine people book into a health resort, Tranquillum House, ready to be transformed into a better, thinner, healthier version of their former self.A washed up romance novelist, a family broken by tragedy, a has-been football star, a young couple whose marriage is faltering, the wife who has been left for a newer model and the lawyer who has commitment issues.
(But I’m still rounding up)If I went to a health spa and they confiscated my phone and secretly raided my suitcase for snack stashes, I’d think WTF?
The plot thickens, but that’s all I’m going to say about the story; you need to go into this one blind.I was worried about whether my head could hold 9 guests (plus 3 people running the place) without bursting or making me feel senile, but as usual Moriarty pulls it off.
Each chapter is about one person, and this style works well.I get pissed that people call Moriarty books chick lit.
Nine Perfect Strangers wasn’t the fun, fast read I was hoping for. The characters who check into the Tranquillum Spa are all weighted down with sad baggage. The first half of the novel details their past woes. I kept reading because I found a couple of the characters likable and the central character, Frances, quite endearing. Then there is a pivotal, ludicrous event which is just a vehicle for more unloading of emotional baggage. This book felt unbearably long. I skimmed the last couple hundred pages just to make sure I didn't miss anything. Nope. Nothing.
Her arrival showed her a beautiful old home built in the 1800s, renovated to within an inch of its life, with a staircase reminiscent of the Titanic (in the film with Leonardo DiCaprio and Kate Winslet; which made Frances smile) – perhaps she might enjoy it after all.Meeting the other eight guests – Carmel, Tony, Lars, Napolean and his wife Heather and daughter Zoe, Jessica and her husband Ben – felt strange.
All to be done in silence.But each and every guest had a secret – and who were the people in charge of the resort?
But this ten day stay is turned on its head, quite literally, when something big transpires, altering the pathway of each of these guests.I recently read an interview with Liane Moriarty where she discusses the inspiration behind her latest novel, Nine Perfect Strangers.
It is a scathing at times, insightful and a scintillating glimpse into the world of health retreats.As we have come to expect with Moriarty’s novels, going on the back of the highly successful previous novels, Big Little Lies and The Husband’s Secret, the characterisation is top notch in Nine Perfect Strangers.
I can't remember the last time I laughed so much at the same time as being made to consider life so much whilst reading a book.A weirdly wonderful group of utter stranger's all rock up to a 10 day wellness retreat, all looking for different answers, all hoping to come out the other side all brand new.
Well be careful what you wish for is all I'll say...This group dynamic is pure dynamite as we slowly get to know this motley crew and their inner selves and life influences.
Nine Complete Strangers is wildly entertaining, extraordinarily thought provoking and beautifully written.
Wonderful storytelling.
I never, ever thought I'd say this about a Liane Moriarty novel but...what a terrible, boring, pointless novel!I really disliked this one.
Couldn't wait for it to be over, actually.
It was so boring and also claustrophobic at the same time, giving me a sense of desperation for these people to just be set free already.
It didn't even sound like a Moriarty.I am still a fan of the author and will for sure give her another try when the next novel comes out but this one?
Wow, what a waste of my time...
The fact that some were related did make it admittedly easier to keep the various characters straight, as there were thirteen POV’s – made up of the nine guests, three core staff, and one other (no spoilers!), so quite a few voices to keep up with.Nine Perfect Strangers isn’t a thriller, crime, or mystery novel, and while there are moments of psychological suspense, there are not enough of them to bill it as that either.
So, all in all, it was well done, but I would’ve preferred it to be crime, psychological suspense.
We quickly learn that something is amiss, and that these people are part of an experience more bizarre and in some ways sinister than was initially advertised.If you're looking for a quick and easy (although very far-fetched) read then this might be the book for you.
However I found myself rolling my eyes at multiple points throughout this story - the characters are stereotypes who come across as pretty one-note, and the twists were not unexpected or shocking (for me, anyway).
I honestly just found it very hard to care about anything that happened throughout the book.Thank you Netgalley and Penguin UK for the advance copy, which was provided in exchange for an honest review.
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/4.5 Stars Why haven’t any of you read this yet?!?!?!? I’m the worst at posting timely reviews so you’ve had nearly a month. I can’t wait to see what others think of this. Take note it is different than any of the other Moriarty books I’ve read to date . . . but somehow it’s also the same. The story here is about exactly what the title states: nine perfect quirky strangers. More specifically, they are: Frances, Jessica and Ben, Heather
Take note it is different than any of the other Moriarty books I’ve read to date .
As I said above, Nine Perfect Strangers is different than anything Liane Moriarty has written before – and to me it seems like she’s really hit her stride.
She is a master of the ensemble cast, filled with fully fleshed out characters who spins such a tightly woven yarn you don’t even know where it’s going until you’re there.
I think it’s safe to say that I officially drink her Kool-Aid and if that makes me the chickiest of all chicks then I’m embracing that moniker .
I accidentally deleted my review and I don't keep copies of my reviews 😩So here's an abbreviated version: I loved it 💖K. Bye.
It was a moment in which Frances the author of romance novels, grabbed words out of her books and threw it into space.She dared to look up and the stars were a million darting eyes on the look out for rule-breaking in her story: sexism, ageism, racism, tokenism, ableism, plagiarism, cultural appropriation, fat-shaming, body-shaming, slut-shaming, vegetarian-shaming, real-estate-agent-shaming.
Well, yes, it was a bit messy, the whole situation, after the code of silence came to an end, and the smoothies became a revered drink every day.
The author got back at her online reviewers, who might want to call her books Misogynistic airport trash that leaves a bad taste in your mouth - ahhh, but wait, that was actually Frances Wylte's fate with one of her books.
I read Truly Madly Guilty back in 2016 and I enjoyed it, but I wasn't totally blown away.
I thought it was better than Truly Madly Guilty and I really enjoyed the characters and story.Nine people seeking relaxation and change go along to a health retreat.
I guess I will just have to class it as "fiction".What appealed to me about this book was the ten-day meditation and mindfulness retreat story line.
I was surprised, but not at all disappointed with where it went.I really enjoy how Moriarty gives away the story slowly.
The day I got this book I had to practice utmost restraint not to start reading at 10am.
I work for myself, so it was really difficult.I don’t read a lot of chick lit but there are two authors I will make an exception for every time, and Liane Moriarty is one of them.The whole experience was just plain FUN.Nine strangers get together for a 10-day health retreat, one that promises to be transformative beyond their wildest dreams.
And yes, the book is funny and frivolous but it also had some very poignant moments.I don’t want to say too much as I don’t want to take enjoyment away from future readers.
Ahh, this rating breaks my heart.
I love Liane Moriarty, but this book was too looney tunes for me.
At times I thought I had fallen down a rabbit hole, cracked my head hard, and was hallucinating.To break it down further, I’d rate the characters and the witty observations of life at 4 stars.
So I enjoyed chunks of it, and it wasn’t a waste of time.
BUT, big but..The plot lost me.
Too far fetched and way too ludicrous, I felt like “it” could never have escalated the way it did, without someone calling a halt.
I just wanted the crazy to stop.Damn, I longed to love this.
“'Ardently do today what must be done. Who knows? Tomorrow death comes.' The Buddha.”   There are several themes threaded throughout this novel, and in my opinion, they all lead back to the above quote. Whether it's embracing gratitude, processing grief, or simply finding self-acceptance, don't let another day pass without making a mark on your journey. In Nine Perfect Strangers, Liane Moriarty introduces a multitude of characters that learn there is no better day than the present. Of course,
In Nine Perfect Strangers, Liane Moriarty introduces a multitude of characters that learn there is no better day than the present.
Of course, committing the next 10 days to Maria “Masha” Dmitrichenko is part of the process.
Little do they know what they've just signed up for.When I began reading this book, I immediately started taking notes.
Moriarty's strength has always been in her characters, and this novel is no exception.
By the end of the book, you will know (and remember) everything possible about these people as if you are right there with them in Tranquillum House bonding over holistic jargon.
[2.5 stars]I have to say, this one started out pretty strong and had me gripped, but it sort of petered out as it went along. I think by nature it was trying to do too much, since it followed a dozen characters or so. It also lacked the depth that I feel some of her other books have. It's by no means a bad book, just a lot more surface-level than others, sort of similar to watching a cheesy Lifetime thriller movie. I enjoyed reading it but I'm not left with much in the end to chew on.
how to hook a person in!
This book has it all - it is sad, it is fun, it is a bit out there but it all comes together in one fantastic story that has you turning pages way into the night.Tranquillum House is a health retreat in rural Australia - far from the busy city lives that its guests are used to.
Follow the rules and become a better person.
So much happens in this book and you are instantly hooked.
A fantastic story by a fabulous Australia writer.
Thank you penguin UK - Michael Joseph for the advanced copy of this book to read and enjoy.
I wish I was better at giving up on books that aren't holding my interest but I find it so difficult when it's an author whose previous books I have really enjoyed.
Nine people arrive at a health spa and each person has their own reason for choosing to stay there.
I was bored for the first half of the book and then finally something peaks my interest but it just goes into ridiculous territory so I couldn't even enjoy it.
I think I'm in the minority with how much I didn't like it, but it does seem like most people would agree this is not the author's best book.
In truth, that’s pretty much where the comparison ends, but I was initially turning pages waiting for the first of the guests to be mysteriously bumped off, as per Christie’s chilling tale.In a way it would have enlivened the first half of the book if we had witnessed a murder or two – I personally found this section pretty hard going as we were ruthlessly introduced to each character.
And the overall taste was pretty unappetising.I always feel that Moriarty treads a tight line between chic-lit and hard hitting observation of everyday life.
Nine people have signed up for the retreat at Tranquillum House, hoping that at the end of the 10 days they will be transformed. 🙇🏻♀Our main protagonist is Frances -the author of romance novels which aren’t doing so well anymore due to the trend of psychological thrillers being all the rage. She will be joined by Ben and Jessica, a young married couple on the verge of a divorce, Napoleon, Heather and their daughter Zoe, in need of an escape, single mum Carmel -whose kids are vacationing elsewher
🧘🏻‍♀️My friend Beth and I had just taken our first yoga class, hoping that Yoga would alleviate the pain that our job brings to our tired bodies, and bring tranquility to our emotionally drained psyches...As others effortlessly got into positions that I struggled with, and began chanting, I was thinking similar thoughts...Looking at Beth, with one eyebrow raised...I had whispered, “I’m not sure I can buy into this!”, while simultaneously thinking, “ but if it works, I’ll do it!” As I read on, Frances continued an inner dialogue with which I could relate..“It was the end of her first day at Tranquillum House and Frances lay in bed willfully reading (it was discouraged!) while she drank her “evening smoothie”-No One could be expected to give up wine and books at the same time.” !!!🍷📚🤦🏻‍♀️All of these guests really wanted the retreat to work.
Nine Perfect Strangers is funny yet twisted at the same time.
It follows nine strangers during their ten day stay at a health retreat.
The events that transpire are kind of funny and so are the characters' reactions to them.
The slow introduction of each of the characters helped in my grasp of who they all were and with getting to know them.
By the end of the book, I felt as though I had a connection with all of them.
This is Moriarty's greatest strength – her ability to write her characters as if they are a real person.
I really enjoyed this book!
