https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/70255.The_Crystal_World
a physician in africa; a world of disease.
decay takes strange shape!
a move into the unknown; the inexplicable finds its form and renovates, reconfigures: a new, dead life!
figures in a landscape become one with that landscape...
stylized characters form a comic tableau, fighting and fucking and dying, always dying...
a journey up-river into the heart of an exterminating whiteness...
this cartoon world ends - not with a bang - but with stasis; an alien landscape that will subsume us all.
what is Self, what is Society, what are compassion & greed & ambition, what is Life itself, in the face of such things?
Also evident, though somewhat muted, is Ballard’s search for faith and questions about the crystallization as a symbol for Christianity.Visually, this is impressive and mesmerizing.
The world Ballard creates, his pulsating description of the crystals and jewels in the jungle sunlight and making strange silhouettes of the characters is dazzling, as if he had painted a portrait.First published in 1966, a reader may ask of what sort is this speculative fiction?
And of what importance does Ballard make to the diamond mines trapped in irony amongst the crystal jungles?Ballard answers many questions, but leaves many unanswered in this hypnotic but puzzling tale.
The Illuminated Man himself was drawn into the theme of the Crystal World.
There's a lot of great imagery going on, and surprisingly, it isn't just the descriptions of the the world being consumed by a time-reversed (or rather, collided time with anti-time) semi-liquid crystals that shine with their own internal light.
People do say it's a sci-fi equivalent of Heart of Darkness, but I think it's more than that.I like to digest some of the deeper currents in the work.
Discover how it truly applies to the crystallizing world.
This isn't just a thoroughly exacting tribute.
Ballard novel: subject, end time. Crystal, metaphor. Verbs? Inappropriateness. Nouns, exclusivity. Technique: problems. Action-omission. Review: inanity, boredom. Book: impossibility. Author-choices, comprehension. Ballard: uniqueness, praise. OULIPO? Disagreement.LSD? Certainty.
This time, Ballard posits a mysterious crystallization process in the forests of Gabon, which slowly transforms everything around it into organic crystals, including plants, minerals, and living creatures.The crystal trees among them were hung with glass-like trellises of moss.
He then expounds on a mind-bending and probably incoherent description of time, matter, anti-matter, and distant universes to explain the mysterious crystallization process:But it is still only a year since the Mt. Palomar astronomers discovered the first double-galaxy in the Andromeda galaxy, the great oblate diadem that is probably the most beautiful object in the physical universe, the island galaxy M-31.
Ballard is enamored with describing the silent, alien landscape inherent in the crystal zone, definitely to the point where the jungle becomes a character and possibly to the point of overkill.
The Crystal World reads like Ballard’s version of Heart of Darkness except the jungle appears to balance on the cusp between crepuscule* and blinding light.
My main problem with the book was the fact the crystal jungle is so overwhelming the characters can seem stock and half-drawn.
I can see why people like Neil Gaiman and William Gibson love Ballard.
Ο Ballard είναι περίεργη υπόθεση, το ίδιο και το βιβλίο του αυτό.Υπερσυμπιεσμένη πλοκή, αντιπαθητικοί χαρακτήρες, περίεργη ανάπτυξη της ιστορίας, αντικλιματικές σκηνές δράσης.Και όμως, όπως και τα κρύσταλλα του δάσους, υπάρχει στο έργο μία σουρεαλιστική θα έλεγα ομορφιά καθώς ο χρόνος τεντώνεται και σβήνει και καθώς όλα χάνονται σε μία πραγματικότητα έξω από τη δικιά μας, έτσι και η γραφή σου μεταδίδει αυτή την αποκάλυχη που έρχεται αργά, σαν παγετώνας για να καλύψει τα πάντα.
I found a fossilized chiffon cake in a cave.
Ballard popped out of it and I fired at him with my shotgun, setting off a storm of falling stalactites.
The sound of them exploding against the cave floor was deafening, but that's not what stunned me.
It was the efflorescence of the fractured crystals releasing trapped light and time.
I wondered if this was all a metaphor for wanting to fuck one of my literary heroes.
No one can even piss near one of my inventions without turning into a crystal-warted crocodile." "True," I admitted.
Later in his career, J.G. Ballard advised that a writer shouldn't write too many books.
I also gathered that this advice came from Ballard's personal experience.I haven't read most of his material, but I have dipped into examples from numerous points in his career, and while I agree that his later offerings were rather flat, the problem of diminishing returns can be seen as early as his third apocalyptic novel, The Crystal World, wherein the very Earth around us begins to turn to glass.The concept of our planet spontaneously transforming to crystal is potentially compelling.
Ultimately, it felt like a bit of a superficial affair, with not enough drive behind the characters actions to keep me interested.Can a writer write too many books?
Legendarily inspired by a boat ride through the Everglades on hallucinogens, this is a novel driven primarily by the crystalline clarity of its images. Plot and character wind through the annealed alien formations with the cold delineation and pre-determination of icons in a symbolist frieze. This makes for a rather distanced reading, but the sheer descriptive imagination and conceptual grandeur -- yes, this is a novel about the crystallization of the the entire universe, perhaps a phase shift in the entire organization of matter -- carry it through quite grippingly.
The prose mesmerizes.Like his other novels, Ballard is concerned with the effects of modernization on humanity, and how it dehumanizes society by driving us toward our most base, anti-social instincts.
That said, it is fair to criticize Ballard's tendency to use Africa (and race relations) in this way, especially when it often feels like he is both reaffirming stereotypes, and othering/dehumanizing the primary population of the setting.
Probably the best of the Ballard "elemental apocalypse" quartet (or it ties with The Drowned World at least).
Once again, it's Ballard taking apart Joseph Conrad's Heart of Darkness and reassembling it as a post-modern tale of apocalypse and humanity's failings - a journey up river through an African jungle slowly being encroached on, and transformed into, crystal.
Time itself is the cause - like a dissolved material reaching maximum load in a solution, it begins to precipitate out into spacetime, slowing the world in stasis and accretion.
Worth your time.
On the good side, the constant repetition of the same descriptions and words (jeweled, deliquescing, glittering, etc.) added to my understanding of the crystallization process by creating a kind of textual parallel: images and metaphors, like the reduplicating crystallizing objects, jut out of the text without any noticeable purpose but to better draw a landscape that is difficult to "see." Ah, but not really, see.
And that's where the book's unconventional narrative combined with the writing to make my discomfort profitable: by doubling events and characters but placing them in ambiguous circumstances without clear narrative expectations, I had no choice but to distill purpose from the philosophical implications of the crystallization.
Ballard achieves a kind of psychedelic realism in this novel - although at times it did get a bit too action-adventurey for my liking. What really stuck with me was the image of the vitrifying forest itself; with its crystal river, kaleidoscopic trees, and jewelled crocodiles, the mysterious Suzanne with her 'leonine mask' of leprosy...horrible and beautiful, and written in a kind of hypnotic, trance-like language which makes the plot itself seem less significant.
A leper doctor arrives in an African backwater. He is mildly interested in renewing an adulterous affair with the wife of a friend who runs a mission upriver, but what is finds is a world undergoing a sea change. The jungle, the wildlife, even the people are all becoming something rich and strange. This is a sci-fi mash up of Joseph Conrad and Graham Greene. Faced with the inexorable march of the crystallizing environment, the hero perhaps bows to the inevitable, but he also embraces it.
The characters are normal people, the setting is a small town with nothing special about it, except that it is beside a jungle where jewels grow out of the ground like weeds, and as a tumor, overtake anyone or anything in their way.
It is a joy to find yourself tangled in the elegance of his wording, so simple and so fluid, yet as enchanting as the jewels of his strange, dreamlike jungle.If you are looking to read a story with a clear, structured plot, where event A leads to event B and is resolved by event C, then avoid this book.
It even fails as science fiction: the main idea is that somehow (?) some kind of time crystals are forming in a jungle somewhere, the author waves his hands about this representing some primordial something or other, and the whole things ends with almost no purpose except to make the main character say some "poetic" things.
As science fiction, this reads like a rejected Star Trek script.That's the final straw: the main draw for this book seems to be its prose and the poetry in the description of the "crystal world", and I'm here to tell you that it's not any good.
This is my third Ballard novel and I am getting used to the way he writes; heavy use of imagery, plot as a vehicle for the thinly veiled subtexts, characters on a quest to discover something about themselves and cryptic, stilted dialogue with much left unsaid leaving the reader to fill in the gaps.Thought provoking as ever, one really needs time to digest the book and no doubt would benefit from a re-read.The science behind the premise of this book is mind baffling nonsense as far as I know but then, that's not really the point.
This is a sci-fi take on Conrad's _Heart of Darkness_. I remember this book's theme and the gradual crystalization of the living things, a sort of leprosy of inertia. It was quite an interesting idea.As I recall, we read this in my UW Sci-fi class.
(Dude summons the spectres of these texts with comments on how “my belief that this illuminated forest in some way reflects an earlier period in our lives, perhaps an archaic memory we are born with of some ancestral paradise where the unity of time and space is the signature of every leaf and flower” (74)—dunno if that’s some kinda ugly subornost-type thesis or other pre-modern proto-fascistic insistence on illiberal unity of atavistic tribes or what—but JGB just can’t stop himself.) Am not sure if this means that in JGB only the upper class is a worthy subject of analysis, or, more precisely, if in JGB the apocalyptic only happens to the elite—if so, it’s almost as though this is a corollary to the standard robot narrative, wherein slave laborers have a revolution against the humans.
The problem with authors who are more interested in ideas and themes is that their weaknesses in developing a plot or writing characters becomes amplified.
It seemed that early in his career that Ballard was attempting to write a series of books that addressed some of his pet themes about a world gone mad and out of control.
While he was able, to brilliant effect, to conjure a bleak dystopia in The Drowned World, one replete with better characters and plot that inhabit most of his books, he fails somewhat with this book.
I wanna get frosted tips in the crystal forest
Wow. For a "classic," this is one of the most intelligence-insultingly terrible books I've ever made the slogging effort to finish.Seriously, WTF? Who the fuck thinks this is a "classic"? Honestly, this is a shitty, incoherently plotted, carelessly inconsistent, ten-year-old-wish-fulfilment-kind-of-ridiculous potboiler of a hack job. And, yeah, it does have a much-more-than-usually-serious Aesthetic Concept at the center, but... uh... that alone doesn't make for a good, or even readable, book. I don't know, man, I'm just shaking my head over this. Seriously: has anyone re-read this book _recently_, and closed it saying "Oh, man, this is great!" ???
Trippy Science fict/fan. 1966 Post apocalypticYYYAAAAAYYYYYYYYYYYYYYYYY!JG Ballard is an amazing writer with an amazing life story. He wrote "The Empire of the Sun" as a semi autobiographical story about growing up in the internment camps in WWII Japan. It was made into a great movie, where Christian Bale, as a child, played the author. The Observer calls this book, aptly, "A haunting picture of diseased beauty,......."West African jungle starts to crystallizeman vs.himself
Beautiful imagery.
Obviously inspired by Lovecraft and obviously the inspiration for Annihilation by Vandermeer.
It's also obvious why Annihilation got a movie and not this novel.
There's little flesh to it and honestly it didn't age that well.
Our protagonist is in Afrika and everyone who isn't white is called either a Negro or a Mulatto.
Women are there to be fucked and look pretty.
Maybe they even get a little hysterical.
Written in 1966, this book doesn't get a pass.
There are a few action scenes, but they really don't add anything to the story.
Because when he does, it is beautiful.
I can't read any book where I can feel the thesaurus in the author's lap.
I made it about halfway through The Crystal World, but had to finally put it away shortly after seeing the words "deliquescing," "coruscation," and "palimpest" in one paragraph.
When I read an author that is trying this hard to use impressive language at the expense of even halfway-decent storytelling?
Yeah, the idea of areas in the world slowly transforming into crystal is a novel one, but it's one that would be better executed as a short story with a really good editor.
As I got into it,I got much more involved with the plot, basically a Doctor, in Africa, travels up-river to find his friends.
He discovers that the forest and area where he wishes to go is being transformed, the vegetation, even the people, into crystal.
It's an interesting journey, as he becomes involved with other peoples' stories and tries to stay alive.
It's worth reading if you're familiar with Ballard's other SciFi works.
I also recommend The Drowned World and The Wind from Nowhere, if you've not read any of his work before.
I've been a long-time fan of J.G. Ballard, but this isn't his best book. There are only so many ways you can describe a crystalline forest. To his credit, Ballard tries all of them, but there's a certain repetitiveness to the writing that starts to grate after a while. So I look to the characters and the action for brilliance. Ballard has never been a character-centered writer-- his talent lies in his ability to render a bizarre world. It's not a horrid book, but it would have been far better as a lean, 50-page novella.
One of Ballard’s armageddon pieces. In his three previous books (The Drowning World, The Drought (also called The Burning World), and The Wind from Nowhere) destruction comes from natural disasters. In the Crystal World, destruction comes under the guise of beauty — and few seem able to resist. But more than a dire warning about the disasters we’re calling down on our own heads, this is also a meditation on the price of immortality. To gain eternal existence we lose our movement through time.
At turns poetic and then unsettling (I recalled Delillo's White Noise), there's a wealth of symbology and metaphor in here, and in particular, an extended allegory of man's struggle between resisting and surrendering to transformation. The premise and descriptions of the forest and people crystalizing--literally becoming encrusted then transformed into gemstones by an unknown pathogen--will remain clearly in my memory. The line becomes blurry: is this book about epiphany, or horror?
