https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/759916.Sunset_Embrace
In the opening scene, Lydia is giving birth to a stillborn baby conceived through rape via her stepbrother.
Coincidentally, Ross Coleman's wife dies in labor a few days later and Lydia is needed as a milk cow to keep the baby alive.
This is the point where I lose interest in the story, because no matter what happens from here on out, I can't get past the rape, and I can't imagine a woman who is brutalized that way romanticizing it the very next day.
I know sometimes I enjoy stories with forced seduction and scenes that ride fine line between that and rape.
Nuestra reseña en A la cama con... un libro Me lo he pasado bomba leyendo este libro
Lately my hankering for a fix of romance that features a dangerous hero whose undeniable passion towards a woman that seems to be the least likely match for him literally brings him down to his knees had me re-reading this oldie but goodie and finished it off loving it as much as I did it back in 2009.20 year old Lydia Bryant is found on the verge of death after delivering her stillborn child in the woods, craving the oblivion of death more than her next breathe.
It arrived with a signed copy of Long Time Coming.I have mixed feelings about this book.
This is my first time reading Sandra Brown and I didn’t know what to expect.
Our heroine Lydia is discovered nearly dead after giving birth to a stillborn son in a pile of leaves by two members of the wagon train.
Lydia is taken in by Ma Langston and she continues on with the wagon train.
Lydia did stand up for herself, but I really wished she had revealed her abuse earlier.I do have a copy of Sandra Brown’s newest book Ricochet.
LA P*** MADRE.Esto me pasa por comprármelo sin haber buscado reseñas antes, así que resulta que el "héroe" VIOLA a la protagonista. A esta altura del partido ya ni me sorprende, parece que los libros de romances escritos en los 80 ESTÁN LLENOS DE VIOLACIONES.
At the opening of the book, we find her giving birth to a still-born baby (which she wants to die because she was raped).
Ross, then has his wife going into labour and dies as she gives birth to a baby boy.
Ross thinks of Lydia as a whore/slut for 2/3rds of the book.
Giving birth to a baby boy without a marriage and because he's attracted to her makes her a slut.
And then this scene happens: (view spoiler)[ After getting drunk and jealous, Ross RAPES Lydia.
He disfrutado los momentos íntimos de los personajes, como se va cociendo su historia poco a poco, como se van aferrando a esta nueva relación impuesta, como se van haciendo imprescindibles el uno para el otro.
Y sí, quizá ESA ESCENA sea ofensiva para muchos, el hecho en si y los pensamientos y reacciones de los personajes, pero creo que hay que considerarla en el momento histórico y en las relaciones de la época, aunque no tenga excusa.Continúo ya con Un nuevo amanecer, porque estoy deseando saber que nos depara Jake/ Bubba, ese hombre de boa fácil, y Banner, que presumo mujer de pechos deslumbrantes como su madre (¿He mencionado que he acabado hasta el * de los senos de Lydia?
Típico culebrón ochentero(lo digo por el año de publicación y no por la época en la que transcurre la trama), donde los malos son muy malos y la prota muy buena y a veces pasada de boba, y no me pudo entretener más, no podía soltarlo, me lo bebí. Me hizo rabiar a montones, hay una parte que es hard topic para mi y eso me hizo bajarle estrellas (view spoiler)[el primer encuentro sexual de la pareja es una violación que la autora trato de romantizar; sorry pero no my cuppa (hide spoiler)] 3,5⭐

This is one of Sandra Brown's earlier books way back when she was writing historical romances instead of mysteries. I read this book years ago after reading rave upon rave about how fantastic, how romantic, how wonderful, how classic a romance, etc. I found it disturbing, horrific and migraine inducing. The hero is this sullen, angry, vindictive brute of a man who infuriated me page after page. Ten years later I *still* remember what a cretin I thought him and that's saying a lot since some days I can't remember my own name.
I liked this book very much, however I reckon it was epic when I was younger. Still you can't go wrong with Sandra Brown.
Que historia más bonita, me ha gustado un montón ... En algunos momentos Ross me ha sacado de quicio, vaya cabezota, pero Lydia me ha parecido muy dulce y comprensiva. Recomendable 100%
InkvotaryThis is the first book of the Coleman Family Saga.I know Sandra Browns books since many years, and I personally believe she is at her best, when shes writing thrillers. Yes, she has one or two good books in the other genres shes written about, but Sunset Embrace isnt one of them. I missed the brilliance in her writing style, her fantastic use of the words she usually has and of course the lack of the thrill. Sure, the story of Sunset Embrace has some kind of thriller elements, there are
InkvotaryThis is the first book of the Coleman Family Saga.I know Sandra Browns books since many years, and I personally believe she is at her best, when she´s writing thrillers.
But when he met Victoria, the daughter of a rich man, he saw his chance of becoming something, he wasn´t from birth.Oh yes – Ma Langston is one heck of a woman!
She takes not only care of her own bunch of kids, but also of Lydia and Ross and she is it, who kind of saves Ross just like that by walking bye from giving in into his dark soul.This novel isn´t one of the best, Sandra Brown has ever written no doubt about that.
Meanwhile Ma, the mother of Lydia's saving family, a day later is called away to deliver Ross and his upper class wife, Victoria's, baby.
Victoria dies in childbirth, but Ross's son, Lee, lives.
Ross is devastated by his wife's passing and when Lydia is presented to Ross as a wet nurse to save Lee, Ross hates and resents her and says vicious things.
Ross had a sordid past as well and the dead Victoria made him respectable by marrying him and bringing him into her upper class world.
Safety -- (view spoiler)[ Hero of book one dies in book two (hide spoiler)]
This novel was written by one of my favorite authors. I gave the book only 3 stars because the story was prolonged. The beginning of the book was great but somewhere in the middle I was thinking please get to the point or ending already. The characters held my interest enough to finish and I am a sap for a love story. The downside of reading multiple books by one author is the comparison and this book left me disappointed.
After all the 5 star reviews, I'm wondering what in the world is going on?
Am I this "different" from the rest of the world?
I won't rehash the plot, but here is why I feel so bothered and disturbed by this book.
Ross Coleman, the "hero" of this book is not a nice man.
Ross just wasn't nice enough to like...even a little bit.
He: - calls Lydia a "[...:]" and treats her like one right up until the very end.
If you like this plot line...try Night in Eden by Candace Proctor.
I wasn't expecting this book to evoke such deep emotions in me from the beginning.We meet Lydia in the woods writhing in pain as she is birthing a child that she doesn't want and was made with violence and hate.
She is taken in by a beautiful family that takes wonderful care of her and she also finds herself needed by Ross who just lost his wife during childbirth.
Lydia has milk to feel baby Lee and this is where the story takes off.
I gave me flashback to nursing my own children.I cannot wait to read the next book in the Coleman Family Series.
Lydia Bryant is on the run and pregnant.
She gives birth to a still-born baby in the wilderness.
She is found by two young boys who bring her to their wagon train.
Also in the wagon train is Ross Coleman and his pregnant wife.
Ross's wife, Victoria ends up dying after giving birth to a baby boy.
Lydia is needed to keep the baby alive.I read this years and years ago and reread it recently and still loved it.
About 2 people thrown together by necessity and slowly learn to love despite their circumstances.
Both had their flaws and issues with the past but eventually love prevails.
3.5 stars
Superba carte!
This was recommended to me but about 75 pages in I realized that the hero in this book dies in the next one which I had already read.
I think in romance novels there is a covenant that exists between author and reader and that is the sacredness of the happy ever after.
In regular fiction anything goes but in romance, a hero/heroine should never be killed off no matter how many books later unless you are writing a totally separate story about their descendants 300 years later.Historical takes place on a wagon train going west.
In Sandra Brown's Sunset Embrace, the first installment in the Coleman family saga series, she took a turn of a page of history for this enthralling classic historical romance.
For Lydia Bryant, she fled from a secret shame and vowed never to let a man overpower her.
For Ross Coleman, he had the shadow of his lawless past and sworn to resist temptation.
But when Fate thrown them together on a wagon trail on the Oregon trail, they fought the desire growing between them, while the shadows of their enemies grew longer.
First Sandra Brown book ever! I would have never read this if not for my bestie and Im so glad she suggested to me. I loved it. I loved all the characters! Truly, I could do a whole review about the support cast alone in this book. I can't express how much I loved them. As far as the 2 main characters, Lidia and Ross Coleman, well, they aren't perfect but I liked that about them. I'm looking forward to Jakes story next. He was one of my favorite characters in this book.
I'm going to do another read and see what I found so unappealing the first go-round. It has been years sine I read this one and maybe I was in a bad mood, interruptions could have played a part in it, whatever, I just want to give it another chance because I liked the other book of the "Coleman" duo. (Christy Reece, whose opinion I highly respect, loves this one!)
I don't like giving one star to an author with skill. The author has skill but the story was not for me. I stopped at 30% of this book. The hero seemed to really detest heroine more than any book I can remember and for stupid reasons. Ugh I really disliked this book.
Another book I just finished today that was a very fine read in Gulu, Uganda. had to take a break from my financial non-fiction books for a bit of romance. This is a hotty with some real description of some loving! Now I need a cold shower...which is all that I get here in Africa anyway!
Will not be reading as (view spoiler)[their HEA gets ruined in the second book (hide spoiler)]https://www.goodreads.com/review/show... <--huge spoiler
Never going to finish that book, nope never.
I just couldn't finish reading this. I usually enjoy this author, but this particular read just wasn't for me.
