https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/13707721-uncle-fred-in-the-springtime
Oh my goodness, what in the dickens is going on now?
Impostors, you say?
At Blandings Castle, you say?
Well, you don't say!Lord Ickenham, aka Uncle Fred is at it again.
Who better to tie these things all together than Uncle Fred?Wodehouse juggles plots with dizzying skill.
I did a rough count and Uncle Fred in the Springtime contains approximately a bucketload of characters.
Every character's got an agenda and they all compete with and against one another simultaneously.
Sometimes the plot lines are silly, sometimes skillful, and sometimes they leave you wondering, "What?
And since all the plots involved Bertie starting himself accidentally engaged while trying to help out a friend and ended with him giving up on his desire to wear a green tie or white pants over the objections of Jeeves, I simply ran out of options.
(A friend implied you could remember which book it was based on which piece of clothing Bertie sacrificed at the end.
If there's not already an app for that, there should be.) After twenty-five years later it seemed OK to start reading again, since the plots are interchangeable anyway and I certainly don't remember the jokes anymore.
Once again Wodehouse brings roses back to the cheeks.
And once again I am amazed by his ability with words, aided by his astounding vocabulary and apparent erudition.
From beautifully worded original descriptions in polysyllables, to both popular and obscure Latinisms, to numerous vernaculars and slang, he seems perfectly at home with them all and can fashion them into something light, bright and sparkling.
His command of the English language is gorgeously beautiful, and as Keats puts it, "A thing of beauty is a joy forever."In short, this one is a standard wodehousean fare, which is to say it's funny, sunny, clever, gentle, and optimistic.
Like his eponymous hero Uncle Fred, PGW always spreads sweetness and light.
Lord "Call me Uncle Fred" Ickenham, a loveable gentleman in his sixties who feels like he is still in his twenties, comes to live the second his wife leaves for France, giving him strict orders to stay at home and out of trouble.
To use the blurb Stephen Fry wrote for the Wodehouse novels: "You don't analyze such sunlit perfection, you just bask in its warmth and splendor."I need to get my hands on more Uncle Fred stories!!!
Lord Ickenham (Uncle Fred) is down at Blandings Castle doing a "bit of good" - well, we know no good can come of that, don't we? Except belly-laughter, that is!I love it when two worlds of Wodehouse collide. It's like mixing two types of liquor together and taking a swig - guaranteed to knock you out! (But then, Jeeves will always be there with his inimitable pickups on the morning after, won't he?)
Delightful romp involving the Duke of Dunstable trying to take Emsworth's pride and joy, the Empress of Blandings, and put her on a reducing diet. In an attempt to avoid this, Emsworth enlists his brother Galahad's old pal, Pongo Twistleton's Uncle Fred. Jonathan Cecil narrated this audiobook and was once again a treat to listen to.
Written in 1939 and maybe because of the encroaching war,this story lacked the sparkle and joie-de-vivre of other Wodehouse books. I found it hard to get into and it failed to hold my attention for long. Having said that, any Wodehouse book is always a good and enjoyable read but this is not one of the better ones.
This book was so funny in parts that I found myself rewinding it and listening to certain scenes over and over. Absolute classic PG Wodehouse.
Impostors, schemes, pig rustling, and more impostors - The indominitible Uncle Fred conducts a veritable three- ring circus at Blandings. Guest appearance by Sir Roderick Glossop, nerve doctor to the upper crust. Delightful.
Uncle Fred has become my favorite Wodehouse character. He is so calming, in spite of his escapades, because you know that he can handle anything (short of his wife's disapproval) that life could throw his way. A little blackmail here, taking a new identity there, and it's all fixed.
What would life be without Wodehouse? It gives one the h.j. to contemplate, if that's the word I want. In the shires of imagination, no citizen does his or her duty quite so delightfully as Uncle Fred. Springtime is the season that Wodehouse brings with him, read whenever.
For the first time, I struggled to retain interest in a Wodehouse novel—nevertheless, I powered through, and at about the 70-page mark, things began to improve. In the end, I can honestly say that, while it didn't stick its head out of Plum's oeuvre, I enjoyed Uncle Fred in the Springtime.
Oh my goodness....... I’ve never read Wodehouse before and I can say that I strongly regret it. WODEHOUSE IS A GENIUS!!!! and an absolute laugh!!! His plots are brilliant and his humour is witty and - to be quite honest - there is absolutely zero he can be faulted on. Please do yourself a favour and lighten your life by reading this book 😂
A defining characteristic of P.G. Wodehouse's marvelous stories is that of the scheme, often a truly complex scheme. While I have not read the entire Wodehouse corpus I venture a guess that Uncle Fred in the Springtime is a sure contender for the most complicated scheme of all. Like many of Wodehouse's tales it involves love, marriage, and money. But how this happy conclusion is reached can only be revealed within its pages. A happy read.
After laughing my way through this hilarious novel, I'm convinced that this is one of P.G. Wodehouse's funniest books. Of course, I feel that way after reading just about any of his books. But I really do think Uncle Fred in the Springtime is one of his very best. If you enjoy literate prose, eccentric characters, and lots of laughs, don't miss this one!
I think I much prefer the Jeeves and Wooster novels.
I've read other books by Wodehouse. For me, this one is the least enjoyable, so far. It has something to do with a pig to be stolen to race at a derby. Or something. This book isn't terrible, it's just all over the place. I hardly doubt even the author bothered to plot this one out before taking pen to paper. Granted, one doesn't read Wodehouse strictly for plot. But a little bit of storyline would have been nice.
I am amazed that Wodehouse finds so many reasons for young couples to break their engagements, as well as reasons for needing to raise a bit of capital.
This one has only one that we can be relatively sure of happening - that of Polly and Ricky - and her father and his uncle are still in the dark about it.
Usually there is an equal number of young men and women that can all be matched up satisfactorily.
I also felt like I would like to see a bit more of the pig, after her cameo appearance coming out of the bathroom and crashing through the Duke's room.
Before reading "Leave it to Psmith," I had an irrational aversion to non-Jeeves and Wooster Wodehouses.
The character of Psmith completely overcame my aversion--he was some sort of unbelievable mongrel of J&W, simultaneously smart + stupid and sensible + debauched, as well as being the most hyper-articulate Wodehouse character I've come across so far.
Now having read "Uncle Fred," I can happily report that it isn't just great characters that you can find in non-J&Ws, it's great plots as well.
Additionally, he character of Uncle Fred may well be the most likeable Wodehouse character yet.
Probably my favorite Blandings book (though Something Fresh is a close second). The scene where Uncle Fred impersonates Sir Roderick Glossop in the interview with Horace Davenport is in itself worth the price of admission.
The greatest of the greatest.A pig hides in the bathroom and eats soap. A beloved uncle jumps out of a wardrobe. A bedeviled duke sets about the furniture with a poker. Eggs are thrown at whistlers.Can you spot the gaping hole in the plot?
Uncle Fred is my favorite Wodehouse character.
Every PG WODEHOUSE novel is a work of art.
I am yet to come across any other author who can create such magic with his words while also providing such pure entertainment every single time.
The characters he's created have stood the test of time for over a 100 yrs now.
Uncle Fred as a character has just surpassed even Jeeves, Psmith and Mr Mulliner in this dynamite of a novel.
And like every Wodehouse novel, it obviously has a happy ending.
Rereading it did remind me that Uncle Fred (aka Frederick Altamont Cornwallis Twistleton, the fifth Earl of Ickenham) is, for me, a character more suited to short stories than in novels.
I feel that his particular brand of chaos works better in short doses.Perhaps some critic had similar objections, because at one point Wodehouse has Uncle Fred say, "It looks like one of those strained coincidences which are so inartistic." I suspect that he took that sentence straight from a review.Even if the total effect is a little wearing, there are some great comic moments in this book.
The conversations and descriptions really make one laugh out loud, and the overall 'Englishness' is incomparable, but, the plot twists were becoming a little predictable.
Wrong balance between principals and attendant lords. Not enough of Emsworth and too much of people it isn't over-easy to like. Having said that, it's enjoyable enough with a few very funny sections.
This was an enjoyable audiobook to put on at work. Jonathan Cecil did a great job reading. I admit I did laugh quite a few times... I wonder what my colleagues thought!
Fred, fairy unclereuniter of loversvanquisher of debts.
When the absent minded pig lover Lord Emsworth entertains the obstinate and quick tempered Duke of Dunstable at Blandings Castle a clash of personalities was bound to happen even if the two do agree on one thing: the other is totally loopy!
Throw into the melting pot a broken engagement, an engagement that cannot be completed for lack of funds, some serious gambling debts and a private detective that cannot forget that he was a former silver ring turf accountant and life at Blandings looks set to return to the default setting of farcical madness.When the Duke of Dunstable remarks that Lord Emsworth’s prize pig – the Empress of Blandings – is too fat and he is the man to whip the prize porker back into shape there really is only one man to sort out this mess.
I only remembered I'd read this when I checked the inside cover of the other Wodehouse book I'm reading.
I originally read this for a book club I was apart of for a while and was definitely looking forward to it.I think Wodehouse is a very warm and charming writer.
I do remember thinking that I much preferred his Jeeves and Wooster stories to this particular Blandings tale, but I still enjoyed it nonetheless.
I also tend to enjoy his books without reading them critically at all, but that's just how I read them.
