https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/65249.A_Dry_White_Season
It is ironic that while reading this account of defying prejudice, I found myself prejudging the entire book based on the rather irrelevant and minor frame story at the beginning, and worked myself up into such a fit of disdain that I very nearly abandoned this brave and important work by André Brink.Brink risked his own reputation and safety to speak out about prejudice and injustice in South Africa in the late 1970s.
André Brink died recently, and is said to have been disillusioned by post-apartheid South Africa.
He becomes involved when the first son of his school's caretaker, a boy who has worked for Ben's family, dies while being held by the security police.
Gordon is arrested and also dies in custody, and the police claim that he hanged himself.The book follows Ben's dogged pursuit of the truth, and how the apparatus of the state frustrates it, ultimately murderously, and the way this affects Ben's friends and families.
There's a trope in African-American literary works set in the Jim Crow era - namely, you should have, if you're black, a white protector, someone to turn to in time of need, to vouch for your character, someone to call you 'a good Negro'.This book, set in the apartheid-era South Africa, looks at the trope from another perspective; this is a story of a white man, Ben, who sponsors a black boy's education.
But as he starts investigating the story a bit he realizes that the South African government isn't as honest as he thought it was.Everything one used to take for granted, with so much certainty that one never even bothered to enquire about it, now turns out to be illusion.
"He is such a human person." Must one now go in search of an entirely different set of synonyms: cruelty; exploitation; unscrupulousness; or whatever?(p 161)I found out about the movie after I read the book which is good because as much as I love Donald Sutherland I was glad not to have his face in my imagination as I read.
A long dry white season, almost 14 years from the time the then President Ferdinand Marcos declared martial law in 1972 up to the time he was deposed in a People Power revolution in 1986."it is a dry white seasondark leaves don't last, their brief lives dry outand with a broken heart they dive down gently headed for the earth.not even bleeding.it is a dry white season brother,only the trees know the pain as they still stand erectdry like steel, their branches dry like wire,indeed, it is a dry white seasonbut seasons come to pass."(Mongane Wally Serote)If freedom may be compared to the life-giving rain, then that period in my country's history was a long drawn out drought.
There is a conversation here between the principal protagonist named Ben (a peace-loving white teacher who decided to act when confronted with an injustice done to a black family by the Gestapo-equivalent in that country then) and another character, Bruwer.
I appreciated this book a lot more when I read it for a writing course in college.
Written during the 1970s, this was certainly an important book for Apartheid South Africa.
A lot of "one has to blah blah blah so that one can blah blah blah, doesn't one?" Bad translation?
I was disappointed that I couldn't capture whatever it was that prompted me to keep this book long after my writing course was over so that I could read it again.
For Ben Du Toit, a white schoolteacher in Johannesburg, doing the right thing never occurred to him, until suddenly it became the reason for his existence.
Ben remains something of a cipher- a mild-mannered, oddly passive husband, father, teacher, who is motivated not so much by affection or concern for Gordon and his family, but by a blossoming sense of social justice.
I squirmed a few times at the drifting of Ben's narrative toward the White Savior, but I wonder how much of that is my own baggage and an armchair reflection of this history, nearly forty years later.
No. I did not see the movie made from this book.The novel begins with a foreword by a fictional author.
There is also a short epilogue, where the fictional author/Brink says he wrote the novel so no one could say he didn't know.The story itself begins at approximately the time of the Soweto uprising.
Stern corridors; open doors revealing men writing at desks in small offices; shut doors; blank walls.Most of this is written in third person limited from the point of view of Ben du Toit.
Suddenly events forced him to confront the truth and he faced a choice--he could look away and pretend he didn't know; or he could fight for what is right.
His family and friends told him to look away from the truth--shut up and play nice, just like before "what you pretend not to know doesn't exist." they seem to say.
The book is told in an odd, flashback way, giving it a feeling of credibility; giving the reader a feeling of illicit complicity in Ben's betrayal of his family and govt in just reading it.
The central character, Ben, is a middle aged lecturer, whose contentment in life is shattered when the university caretaker, and subsequently the caretaker's son, are brutally murdered by the police.
Ben starts to investigate the murders and his life starts to unravel.The brilliance of this book is in how it describes the personal cost of political struggle.
The ending is dark, brutal, and leaves us in no doubt that one person cannot stand alone against a fascist state.Other readers have interpreted the book as arguing that political protest is pointless.
Instead, I think that the book demonstrates why people must stand together.
Ben du Toit, it is me, it is you.
Ben teaches the history.His life is well organised between the school, the church and his family.
His father inquires because he wants to know the truth.
He will be also arrested and will die in prison.
For Ben it is unbearable.
He wants to know.The genius of Brink is to have chosen as hero an ordinary man.
Ben lives the apartheid without that asking any problem.
He only wants to know with some stubbornness and naivity what did happened .
It made give us a live vision of apartheid from the interior, in its daily banality.Brink is a little forgotten today.
If something went wrong for a black person or community, whites took it as justification for the apartheid system (they need it, deserve it, must have done something wrong, etc.).I think the same may be true in oppressive regimes that promote the illusion of openness.
Nonetheless, i liked the way the reader experiences the tightening of the net by the government around Du Toit, and how options/ relationships/ privacy etc.
Brink develops this idea throughout the novel by showing how individual characters only reveal portions of their life and experience to each other.
Ben DuToit, Gordon Ngubene and their families may be fictional, but the setting and atrocities committed under Apartheid existed, and haunt us still.Gordon Ngubene's son Jonathan is detained during the Soweto riots.
It is my son's body.'Thus begins the search for Jonathan, until Gordon himself is detained and subsequently dies in police custody, allegedly due to suicide.Ben believes that their is still a chance for justice, initially trusting the judicial system and added by Stanley Makhaya, who is less hopeful.'You are white.
It's the only way to keep going.'This book was banned under the Apartheid government for daring to question, expose and revile its premise and actions.
Andre Brink is an enormously talented writer and deserves the kind of international recognition that JM Coetzee and Nadine Gordimer enjoy.This book tells the story of Ben Du Toit, an unremarkable Afrikaner school teacher in 1970's Johannesburg.
He becomes involved in the education of the school janitor's son, and after the adolescent is killed in the Soweto Riots, Ben begins helping the black janitor (Gordon) in his quest to uncover the truth.
Brink's story unfolds quickly and believably, pulling Ben (and the reader) progressively deeper into the intrigue and politics of Apartheid-era South Africa.
I can't wait to read more of his books.
Ben Du Toit and the narrator are white South Africans living in Johannesburg.
Ben is a school teacher.
Gordon Ngubene is a black man who is the janitor at the school where Ben teaches.
When Gordon's son Jonathan is missing after a series of riots, and then is reported dead, Gordon turns to Ben as he investigates to learn what happened to his son.
Ben can't believe that report and he starts investigating to expose what he believes to be a cover-up.
The investigation becomes all-consuming and threatens the lives of Ben and those close to him.
This book, about living in South Africa under Apartheid, could be classified as a dystopian novel.
The tension continually builds throughout the novel, (view spoiler)[leading ultimately in a downward spiral to the total destruction of the protagonist.
(hide spoiler)] In reality, we know that Apartheid did end - and that the events portrayed in this novel can't happen now.
I don't live in South Africa and I haven't experienced Apartheid, but I got the distinct impression that this novel portrayed the kinds of things that could have happened, that were happening.
‘There are only two types of madness we should guard against.
One is the belief that we can do everything.
The other is the belief that we can do nothing.’A Dry White Season is a sad, depressing look at racial prejudices in apartheid South Africa through the story of a white man trying to bring justice to the memory of a black man.
Set around the Soweto Riots the book deals with the futile endeavours of an individual to overcome injustice by the state.
This book was banned in South Africa.
It was made into a film in 1989.The story itself is incredibly gripping.
Then I spent a few of hours reading excerpts of some of the books of his that I’ve read.
I never saw it (I make a point of never watching movies made from books I like), but I was glad that it opened up a new audience for his works.
A Chain of Voices, the first book of his I read, still resonates as one of the more original pieces of historical fiction I’ve ever read.
He was a writer for the ages and now I’ll make an effort to find and read some of his later works.
His life and work is worth celebrating.

This is an excellent novel. The writing - particularly about personal relationships - is brilliant. Brink does a fantastic job of developing his characters.
Having recently learned of Andre Brink's death at the age of 79, I found myself once again reading his potent condemnation of apartheid--Brink's courageous novel "A Dry White Season." Initially published in 1980, it still remains apparent to any reader that Mr. Brink was appalled by the horrific events that transpired only four years earlier; that bloody student uprising in Soweto when black school children protested against the authoritarian and dehumanizing strictures of apartheid.
I must admit to being sceptical of Brink's literary prowess after the first book I read of his (Devil's Valley) - it wasn't a bad read by any stretch of imagination - it was an intricate book, but it seemed to lack a certain depth, or at least if it truly was exploring something then I missed it.On the other hand, A Dry White Season feels like an amalgamation of 1984 and Cry, the Beloved Country in a comparatively modern South Africa.
It is very decidedly a protest novel.Alike to many great race works (To Kill a Mockingbird comes to mind strongly), A Dry White Season is framed around a court case.
The book is masterfully drawn: the characters are distinct – Brink can sketch a vivid portrait in just a few lines – and complex; most are sympathetic; the plot develops steadily, each new revelation squeezing the vice ever so slightly around Ben. Reading “A Dry White Season” feels vaguely like being that proverbial frog in a pot of slowly boiling water: the tension develops so subtly that by the time you, like Ben, realize the severity of the situation, it’s too late.
La naïveté de Ben est telle qu'il croit encore à une justice où toute notion de couleur ou de race serait abolie, mais dans les années quatre-vingt en Afrique du Sud, l'espoir est un privilège de Blanc.
L'ouvrage, interdit en Afrique du Sud dès sa publication, recèle aujourd'hui toute la force d'un témoignage et demeure, malgré un contexte politique heureusement pacifié, d'une bouleversante humanité.Le type même du roman complet, construit, partant d'une intrigue passionnante mais anecdotique pour aboutir aux problèmes fondamentaux : les libertés individuelles, le droit de disposer de soi, l'incommunicabilité entre les races, entre les classes sociales, l'illusion du combat solitaire.
De veiligheidspolitie houdt hem nauwlettend in de gaten en de mensen die wel met Ben samenwerken verdwijnen een voor een uit zijn leven."Het is alsof je in een aquarium leeft, elke beweging die je maakt wordt nauwlettend gevolgd door ogen die door glas en water naar je kijken, zelfs de beweging van je kieuwen als je ademhaalt wordt in de gaten gehouden."De schrijfstijl van André Brink lijkt alles in deze racistische en harde samenleving wat te verzachten, te zalven.
Zuid-Afrika is in een andere tijd belandt, maar het kost misschien wel generaties om deze zwarte bladzijdes definitief van zich af te schudden.
Om dit nou weer te lees is om in ongeloof te wonder hoe dit gebeur het dat hierdie inligting destyds amper as heiligskennis weerhou was van die Afrikaners.
Omtrent al sy boeke is in meer as dertig tale vertaal, insluitend hierdie een en daarmee is 'n stuk geskiedenis aan die wereld blootgelê wat die Afrikaner op daardie stadium nie beskore was om te ken nie.
Dis 'n goeie lees vir diegene wat nie daardie tyd gereed was vir hierdie soort verhale nie maar dit nou beter sal kan verstaan.
Easily my favorite Brink.Curious if there are different editions, as I swear I remember scenes from the version I read in South Africa that don't appear in this American 1979 edition?
(3/30/17)An unbelievably compelling novel about the psychological and personal politics of apartheid; it's almost a thriller, but it also creates an indelible character profile of the average Afrikaaner caught up in the forward plunge of white power and dominance in South Africa.
To read this is to be immersed in - and comprehend - a completely distinctive time and frame of mind.
I had a slow start with this book, I think because of the framing narrator, but Ben de Toit's story hooked me right in after 50 pages or so.
Of all the books I have read recently about Apartheid South Africa (from a white perspective) Brink is the most successful in articulating the impossibility of white individuals 'helping' to improve the situation, and also the impossibility of not doing 'something'.
By the end I had also come to appreciate the framing narrator - a rather arrogant, uninspiring novelist himself - as a device.
I'll certainly be interested to read more Brink on this evidence.
Is it too early in the year (Feb '18) to declare that this is going to be one of my favorite books this year?Set in 1970s in Johannisburg, this book will rip your guts out. It describes the political and social climate at the time and did it so well, that it was banned. There is a lot of sadness, but some wonderful moments of clarity in the story. All of it is wonderfully supported by the writing.
Brink's writing is incredibly interesting and clever. He has the ability to write down thoughts and feelings that I didn't know could be put into words. This book is very densely packed with information, and a singular plot that consistently and relentlessly dominates the motion of the story. A Dry White Season is so detailed that it really feels like peering into another person's life and seeing the reality behind every experience. Amazing read.
