https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/380975.K_is_for_Killer
Book Review  3.5 out of 5 stars to K is for Killer, the 11th book in the "Kinsey Millhone" mystery series, written in 1994 by Sue Grafton. In this one, Kinsey's life is relatively calm, which she is enjoying... until someone shows up begging for help in solving the death of her daughter. Kinsey doesn't think she can do much, given the police haven't found anything in the months-old trail. But the woman is convincing and Kinsey needs the money. Unfortunately, the case turns out to be brutal --
Book Review
3.5 out of 5 stars to K is for Killer, the 11th book in the "Kinsey Millhone" mystery series, written in 1994 by Sue Grafton.
Kinsey doesn't think she can do much, given the police haven't found anything in the months-old trail.
Kinsey knows they're hiding something and takes off on her usual path to solve another crazy case.
I enjoyed the book, however it wasn't one of the better ones.
The series took a minor slump with this book, not because it was bad, but because it just wasn't as powerful as the rest.
here's the scoop: I read A LOT.
This was another good entry in this enjoyable alphabet series.
Fortunately Kinsey chose to be discreet and let the bad guys sort out the even worse guy!Prior to this though she carried on in her usual manner, knocking on people's doors at all hours of the night and asking the most pointed questions.
Her methods seem to work because she discovers all sorts of information and usually solves the case.
She works endlessly long hours and eats the worst food, but it all makes for an entertaining read.Ready now to move on to L.
Lorna's lifestyle -- it turns out she worked part-time for the city's water treatment plant and part-time as a high-dollar sex worker -- is criticized soundly by nearly every character in the book, save one, her best friend (and fellow hooker), Danielle.
In fact, the book varies completely from form at the end: not only are crimes left unsolved, but Kinsey doesn't even mention her final accounting with the family of the deceased (one of whom is implicated in an illegal act not long before the resolution).
Not a great read. The build up is very slow and the outcome isn’t particularly thrilling. A really quite pedestrian whodunnit. I’ve still got another two from this series on my bookshelves but I don’t think I’ll bother reading them. Better than 2 stars but not quite 3.
PI Kinsey Millhone’s latest case is a cold one.
As Kinsey begins to investigate, she realizes that Lorna had a completely secret life, and the investigation causes Kinsey to become a night owl like Lorna was.
The cold case quality leads to some interesting complications to the investigation.
Lorna’s life included some things that don’t normally pop up in my cozies, but we didn’t get gratuitous detail, which I appreciated.
We don’t see much of the other series characters, but Kinsey is fantastic as always, and the book is populated with real people that draw us into the story.Read my full review at Carstairs Considers.
The interviews are matter-of-fact and believable, but they are not terribly informative, and show how much the suspense and interest of the book is driven by making the main victim a girl-next-door-high-class hooker and would-be porn queen.The twists in the plot that Millhone's investigation brings to light are generally believable (for example, one character's tampering with a crime scene and a jealous wife planting an item in a home).
The "community meeting" about the development is one of the sketchiest, most exaggerated, least believable descriptions in the book (Millhone supposedly "falling asleep" is a lame excuse for skimping on details).
Kinsey Millhone is looking for who killed a young woman.
The young woman led a much seedier life than she led some to believe, and Kinsey gets a look into this life during the course of her investigation.The 11th book in the Kinsey Millhone mystery series.
This one was a little different than some of the earlier books, mainly because Kinsey no longer worked as an investigator for California Fidelity.
She wasn't working for them in the last book either, but the case was tied to CFI.Overall, it was a typical book for the series.
I listened to an audio version of this book.
This was crazy good. Grafton gets a bit twisty and dark in this installment. Kinsey has to make some hard choices, and then live with the consequences. 4 1/2 out of 5 stars. On to L!
Plot was weak - the reason for killing Lorna wasn't fully developed and left a lot of holes.
Who was Lorna's fiance?
How did the sisters get the tape in the first place?
How did Danielle eventually die - was it murder, or complications?
And who attacked her - her pimp or the murderer?
Just lots of holes.I didn't like the way the reader read some of the characters.
The sisters, especially, didn't jive.
These women were supposed to be in their late 20s and they sounded like pre-teens.
Danielle fluctuated from very mature to silly.It held my attention, but wasn't the best.
I would have given this book 3 stars based on the whole book but I gave it two for the ending. It was the worst ending for any of these Sue Grafton books I have read. It was very anti-climatic.
Except for the a little puzzling ending, this was a corker of another read. The procedural parts to the homicide investigation were in-depth and added to the appeal. Kinsey a tough-minded private eye with a sardonic wit makes for a sturdy protagonist throughout the alphabet series.
There isn’t a lot of discussion about the dark decisions Kinsey makes and that is a little disappointing because I really wanted to see her fight her way back to the light but it was just glossed quickly.
I felt like Grafton couldn’t decide where she wanted the relationship to go so she started at one extreme (flirty/interested) and ended on the other end of that spectrum (disengaged).
There was some discussion but not a whole lot which felt like a huge unresolved storyline was hanging out there.
This one was four stars for me all the way to the end . . . and then it just ended. No explanation for why the murder had been committed. Many of the plot threads were left hanging, and they weren't things that will come up again in later books. So I'm going with three stars: would definitely have been four if there had been a few pages that explained rather than just naming one of the characters as the killer.
One of the Alphabet series in which Kinsey Milhone is asked to investigate a cold case, the death of beautiful Lorna Kepler. I have read most of the series, and find them light relaxing reading. There is a little too much of Kinsey's life style at the expense of the plot, which can become repetitive. Is there an element of autobiography in her novels ?
After finishing my last book over a month, I had picked this book with one simple hope/expectation- the story/pace should be fast and furious!!
It turned out exactly that so full marks to it on that account for bringing me out of boredom :-)!!
The language is fluid and eye for details in every thing is very impressive all through the book.
The various characters developed leaves a mark for sure in their own way.
The book has all the elements to keep us engaged and build the excitement as it progresses and it definitely succeeds in keeping the suspense intact till the very end!
I listened to this over 2 days and fell asleep at one point when Danielle got beat up.
I lost about 20 minutes and decided not to go back.
I didn't like this one as much.
The subject matter wasn't really a big deal but I just didn't want to pay attention to it.
I didn't like a lot of the characters and I also didn't like the deceased.
I would like him to come back!
Next book won't be for 6 weeks unless I Audible it or go to the physical Library.
E-library has 3 holds and 1 copy.
Another rock solid noir-ish one from Sue Grafton. I've read most of the series so far (well the ones my wife has) and have only been disappointed once. Like reading an Erle Stanley Gardener Perry Mason novel, with Sue Grafton and Kinsey Millhone you know what you are going to get and that it will be a good ride. We have a gap in the series; the next book we have is Q. Guess I'll have to renew my library card today.
Janice Keppler can't believe her daughter Lorna met such an end and can't rest without getting to the bottom of what caused Lorna's death.
Kinsey's heart goes out to Janice and soon she is off to end one mothers suffering.
As Kinsey delves into the dark parts of Lorna's life things are exposed that cause anguish, character bashing and judgmental comments from additional characters of her life that we meet who made other choices.
The ending was also different than I'm used to for the series.
Normally I can count on Kinsey to make me smile with her black dress and the secondary characters bringing so much life to her life.
In this book, Kinsey was approached by a mother whose daughter was found dead and would like to hire a private investigator to find her daughter's murderer.
It's kind of different from a murder mystery book told from the perspective of either the detective or the FBI.
This is a mystery told from a private investigator's point of view of researching the case without the usual resources that a normal police detective has.However, I got a little bit confused towards the end.
I would have given this a 3 stars if it wasn't for the end part.
Another good episode in the Kinsey Millhone series.
The storyline was interesting and didn't have a lot of distractions taking away from it.
I enjoyed following the cold case clues along with Kinsey and Grafton did a great job of sticking to the point.
The ending was not what I expected, but gave a great view into Kinsey's developing character and I really liked it.
My only complaint was that the motive behind the murder was not crystal clear and if you blinked you missed it.
(Not good when your listening to the audioversion).
Still, everything did make sense in the end!
"K" was a fun mystery, maybe the only one so far that left me feeling like I needed another chapter at the end. It did not detract from the story at all, but there were so many characters, suspects, and unknowns in this book, and I wanted to see a few more pieces of info, that's all. A really good read, and Kinsey definitely got involved with some characters in this tale of the nighttime world.**SPOILER ALERT** I had wondered whether something might happen between Kinsey and Cheney.....
4 StarsAnother satisfying mystery with our favorite busy-body, nosey, wise-ass; Kinsey Milhone.I must say, this ending was most satisfying. Nice twists and turns throughout the story, with most of the characters being less than desirable and unrelatable... at least to me. I like tidy endings, especially when murder is involved. :)
The 11th book with Kinsey Millhone. This one has a lot of classic crime detective elements to it. A mother comes to Kinsey's office and begs her to take the case of her dead daughter. Dead daughter had a secret life where she was a prostitute. Kinsey has to submerge herself in the night life of said prostitute in order to find out what happened.
The characters and situations she comes across along the way: Lorna's crippled friend - the overnight jazz DJ with the protective dog, Danielle - the teenage hooker Lorna was mentoring, the porn producer in San Francisco and her well-hung co-star who ends up being a transsexual(revealed in one of the novel's best scenes - never played for shock or laughs - which sad to say is pretty fucking impressive for a book published in 1994 -- and taking place in 1985 or so), the night nurse wife with the well connected old father who also employed Lorna as a house sitter (and discovered the body) -- each of them is well illustrated for the amount of time a book this short allows us to spend with them, especially given the fact that the story is told, like all of the Alphabet mysteries, in first person.
✭✭✭✭
A good quick listen. Not as good as Sandford
A friend recommended Sue Grafton for easy, relaxing, mystery reads.
Kinsey is a tough talking ex-cop who left the police force to become a private investigator.There is a large cast of characters in this novel who knew Lorna Kepler – landlord and his wife, a few friends who worked with Lorna, her old boss and wife, her two sisters, Mom and Dad and many others who Kinsey sees could have motives to kill Lorna.
When I started reading this novel, I enjoyed her writing to a point.
I just ran down to Barnes and Noble and picked up the A is for Alibi to start from the beginning with Kinsey Millhone.
I've started at the beginning of the alphabet and so far this is my favorite story in this series.
Kinsey is asked to investigate a woman's daughter's death, 10 months after the fact.
We meet Cheney Phillips, vice detective, in this book and get to know him as they work together a little.
I was happy to just focus on the job with this book, no extra drama with Rosie, Walter, or even Henry.
And no family stuff for Kinsey.
Just a straight detective story.
SPOILER ALERTI was excited when Kinsey appeared to make a friend, wondering how that friend might play into future books, only to have her killed off.
At first, I thought he might be a potential love interest, but all of a sudden he talked about being at home with his girlfriend, and Kinsey took it at face value, even though no girlfriend had even been mentioned up to that point, and he seemed interested in Kinsey.
I can't help but wonder if this is being set up for a future story too.Meanwhile, I don't think Sue did a really good job tying things together like she usually does.
Since I don't remember anything other than how much I enjoyed Kinsey Millhone, I've returned to this series to reacquaint myself with the delightful and determined PI and follow her through to the end of the alphabet.
As Kinsey wrestles with untangling the many threads of the cold case of Lorna Kepler's murder, she must also wrestle with the limitations of our justice system vs.
Grafton's prose is richer in this novel as she delves into the moral dilemmas Kinsey faces.
I'm looking forward to the next books in this series.
