https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/142458.Flashman
Harry Paget Flashman is NOT your typical morally-challenged but likeable scoundrel who you can’t help but love because of his sharp wit and buckets o’ charm. No…he’s an ASSHOLE…a big one. A rapacious, lecherous, despicable scumbag with no redeeming qualities whatsoever. I’m talking such odious funtivities as:**Having sex with his Father’s mistress, and then beating and sexually assaulting her when she refuses his subsequent advances.**Forcibly selling his Indian concubine to a passing artillery
In this first installment, we follow Flashy from his schooling disgrace to his Machiavellian career in the Army, during which he travels from Scotland (where he seduces the young daughter of the family he billets with), to India (where he bangs everything with a pulse), to Afghanistan, where he’s a participant in the major events of the First Anglo-Afghan War. At every turn, through a combination of luck, quick thinking and timely cowardice, Flashman comes out smelling like a rose and ends this first novel as a famous war hero.THOUGHTS:I liked it.
The cover art encapsulates the plot and tone.A rake’s adventures Harry Flashman is a self-aware, shameless, shrewd, cowardly opportunist who describes himself as “A scoundrel, a liar, a cheat, a thief, a coward - and, oh yes, a toady.” (Note that he doesn’t mention his treatment of women.) He joins up; fights; escapes; sleeps around; betrays honour, friends, fellow officers, and even his country; beats servants “for their own good and my amusement”; beds more women; is tortured; duels; double-crosses; takes hostages; is taken hostage… yada yada… rinse and repeat - not necessarily in that order.
Although I was not charmed and beguiled very much, I was not as outraged as I thought I might have been.The conceit of a real historic recordThis book claims to be Flashman’s memoirs, written between 1900 and 1905, and found in 1965.
I've just been looking at the other reviews, and every guy likes Flashman. Every single one. I'm afraid I do too. What does that say about us? I often wonder why women put up with men at all.
They will start exploring different sorts of people, people who are very unlike them, people who might disagree with them fundamentally, but who are still interesting and sympathetic.But there's still a steep hill to climb for authors who want to write characters unlike themselves.
All the views, all the descriptions come from Flashman, himself.Whenever an author completely veils himself behind the character, we must decide what to believe--this technique is called the 'unreliable narrator', for obvious reasons.
There's a recurring theme to the reviews I've read of 'Flashman' which is that whilst, by his own happy admission, he is a racist, scoundrel, bully, cad and coward, Flashman is also an engaging storyteller who has the happy coincidence to be an active participant in the middle of momentous historical events.
'Flashman' is a wonderful way to learn about history whilst enjoying a ripping yarn that is both funny and gripping.
I was delighted to learn that there are 12 books in the series:Flashman (1969)Royal Flash (1970)Flash for Freedom!
I was laughing till I snorted in public at the description of the incompetence of Major-General Elphinstone; then within moments nearly in tears as the full impact of it was realised.The voices seem appropriate, the writing is excellent and the adventure is extreme; so much better as it accurately follows historical facts and gives credible voice to them in a setting with which we've lately become familiar through the evening news.I strongly recommend it for anyone who's interested in a good read of historical fiction - just don't expect to like Flashman himself, though his unflinching honesty about his own cowardly, racist, misogonistic, classist, bullying character is extremely refreshing and entertaining.
Naturally, 100 years later George MacDonald Fraser decided to write a series of historical novels starring a grown up Flashman as the “hero.” The result, at least in Fraser’s original book, was pure magic.Flashman picks up right where Hughes left off, in 1839.
Unfortunately, Flashman ends up getting shuttled off to India and then Afghanistan, just in time to take place in the First Anglo-Afghan War. Flashman is, by his own admission, a coward, scoundrel, and overall crummy human being.
While the character Flashman is fictional, the history his adventures take him through is very real and I actually learned a lot in reading this book.One word of caution.
The fact that he is honest enough to openly and constantly admit that he is a cowardly, toadying rake does not redeem him either.
That said, I hardly ever felt sympathy for him whenever he found himself in a funk - I only read on in my impatience to discover how he would overcome his latest setback.All of which makes Flashy a highly engaging character through which to discover the large-scale Afghan catastrophe which was caused by the likes of Macnaghten and Elfinstone.
Although this novel makes no bones about the brutality of the Afghan tribes, the savagery of the puppet King is not referred to.
Meet Harry Flashman, decorated hero of the Victorian age. He also happens to be a liar, a lecher, a bully, and a sniveling coward, and that is what makes these comic historical novels so funny.He is also gloriously un-PC, which seems to ruffle some dainty feathers these days. Great stuff.
Over the series, written over a 30 year period, Harry Flashman becomes one of Victorian England's most decorated military heros while in actuality he's its most craven coward.
While he revels in wallowing in the Garden of Earthly Delight, he invaribly pays heavily for his sins by winding up at virtually every British military disaster, and a few American ones as well, of the 19th Century, and it appears there were an astonishing number.
Let me begin this review by saying that my star rating has less to do with the quality of the book and more with the fact that it was a bad match for my reading tastes.
I became interested in the Flashman books after hearing them described as a much-loved series of historically accurate, comic fiction.
But my sympathy for him was undermined early on by his ugly racism and appalling attitudes towards women, though I suspect these attitudes also historically accurate for their time.
Reading about the brutal massacre of the departing British forces and the repeated capturing and torturing of our hero is really not my idea of entertainment.
Flashman is in a way the primary example of an anti-hero.
The books are comedies about a cowardly, bullying,thief who always comes out looking like a hero through a combination of cunning and luck.
I thought the idea sounded funny but I found the actual book rather annoying.
All I can suggest is try it and see, I didn't care for them.I wrote that review a long while back, I thought I'd give a short example from "early on".
Flashman in facing a duel offers to bribe the second/loader to give his opponent a blank load.
The books are funny and many like them.
I thought I would like the adventures of Flashy based on the first few pages.
Who wouldn't like a story that starts off with being expelled from Rugby school for drunkenness?Unfortunately, after reading 1/3 of the book, I can't continue.
Flashy's treatment of women is awful and while this could be the norm for his time and his class, it doesn't seem realistic that women would just throw themselves at his feet like that.My main gripe with Flashman is not that he's a liar, a coward, a cheat, and misogynist.
It reads more like male-fantasy.
Fraser took a small character in Tom Brown's Schooldays and turned him into a legend. The mock memoir set-up is very fun, and Flashman in his first outing is a real loathsome character. I didn't much like him! He's the embodiment of ugly British colonialism, raping women and doing whatever he can to get whatever he wants. But I had to keep reading about the fiendish little cad, because the scrapes he gets into and the sh!t luck that keeps him alive was far too amusing.
Whether or not one is offended by the language and misogyny, and it is easy to be offended, such works as this do have the virtue of causing one to reflect on one’s own culture and society and to try to determine what customs and values are worthy of being kept and which are not.Finally, the book led me to reflect on the issue of heroism (for all his obvious faults, Flashman comes off looking like a hero).
It is almost as if the concept of heroism itself is more important and of more value than any particular hero, so that society is perfectly willing to manufacture heroes if necessary.
One positive aspect to Harry Flashman, scoundrel, rogue, coward and all round bounder.......he does have some insight into his own "shortcomings".Must admit that I wasn't quite expecting this. I did enjoy the story arc overall and the historical setting of India and Afghanistan. Also liked the "tongue in cheek" vein that the novel was written in. I did not like Harry Flashman though, didn't like the way he spoke of women, his treatment of women, the way he thought about women. I did enjoy the bit of comeuppance towards the ending, karma is like that.
Harry Flashman, despite every effort to stay out of harm's way, finds himself propelled into one life threatening event after another.
A desperate ride from Afghan horsemen, for example, makes him seem heroic rather than a coward, and he winds up serving as unofficial courier for the British commanders.
This was a good opportunity to learn about what an unmitigated disaster the British occupation of Afghanistan was.
(Of course Flashman survives, winding up getting decorated by the Queen for valor - despite his abandoning the army in the passes.)Four out of five stars.
Another book Neil Gaiman mentioned in his blog. I liked it and thought parts were really funny. Some parts made me uncomfortable, though.

I shall list those which come to mind:He seems to genuinely love his wife, in his own way (he cheats on her, or tries to, pretty much constantly, but he also has ample reason to believe she does the same and knows about his own infidelities; still, his thoughts seem to go back to her more often than anything else, aside from saving his own skin at least).He generally doesn't take joy in meaningless slaughter (if he does take joy in someone dying, they're either also a total asshole or he's just glad he's not the one being killed).He seems to have more respect for people of color than most people in the setting (he uses the dreaded "N word" a lot, but it's mostly set in the 1800s, so that doesn't mean much; mind you, he doesn't respect anyone all that much, but minorities don't get any more of his disrespect or contempt than anyone else, really - a caveat here is that he usually doesn't have a problem with slavery, but that goes back to his simply not caring about most people other than himself).That's it.
Someone in a Goodreads group thread (who hasn't read the book) speculated that Flashman might be considered "post-modern" -- a reasonable assumption given that the narrator is an anti-hero.
Yes, it can be read as a blistering critique of 19th century British imperialism, but it's dealing with historical facts -- a refreshing change from contemporary polemics that are out to score political points at the expense of everything else.
I've also seen Flashman called a historical novel.
Flashman is set in the mid-1900s, but it reads like a contemporary.
History records only one survivor from the party that retreated from Kabul, but we have Fraser to thank for the tale of the otherwise unrecorded second who left many better men and several wronged women behind.The Flashman novels demonstrate that serious history does not have to be po-faced; and that there is no need for light fiction to be poorly researched.
This book and its sequels are great examples of how to research and write historical fiction, and shame on lazy writers who are simply "inspired" by a period and then change established characters and events to suit their own purposes.A phenomenal achievement from a writer who was serious about his history while equally serious about his mission to entertain.
Ok so I ended up liking this book more than I thought I would. I rather like ole Flashy and I suppose I'll read the next in the series. I wouldn't review it as "hilariously funny" as stated on the cover, but to each his own.
I was not the right reader for this book. While Flashman created intense emotions in me, I despised him which I don't think was the author's intention. lol!My Rating: 1 star
In the military the combination of class preferment and the practice of purchasing commissions produced some of the greatest military debacles in history.
The 80 year old Flashman, having been showered with medals and honors is writing his memoirs, — confiding to the reader the true history of his time.
Historical authenticity is enhanced by Fraser's use of footnotes citing authoritative sources to argue controversial points in Flashman's narrative.
I highly recommend these books to anyone interested in a combination of history and great writing.
It's rare for me to actually feel guilty for enjoying the antics of a protagonist but I had this nagging cognitive dissonance the entire time I was reading this--Harry Flashman is certainly one of the more repulsive, boorish fictional people I've rooted for.
It seems obviously unwise to come to conclusions on a person's character from a historical novel in which they are a character, but the dude did lead like 17,000 people to their deaths....In a lot of ways these books seem like the anti-Sharpe.
There were certainly moments in this book where I just thought Flashman was just being a piece of shit, and not in a funny or likable way.
Actually, he’d probably damn their eyes, then nip round the corner to pay a couple of toughs to knock them down, de-bag them and blacken their backsides with boot-polish...I can see why some people might take against Flash after reading the first book in the series.
This first book sets up Flash’s dilemma for the rest of the series; namely, that once he’s mistaken for a dashing hero, various ghastly people (Prime Ministers, generals, unspeakable foreigners, and even members of the Royal family) insist on sending him to dangerous places (mostly hot and dusty) to do horribly dangerous heroic things, while all Flash wants is a peaceful life, dividing his time between fashionable London society and the fleshpots of the East End.Unfortunately, the next book  Royal Flash is one of the weaker in the series (being little more of a reworking of The Prisoner of Zenda) but after that, it’s all gravy.(Note on covers.
From what I read in the reviews it looks like just my cup of tea, and boy howdy is it.The novel is told by Harry Flashman, the same Harry Flashman who's claim of fame is from Tom Brown's Schooldays & Tom Brown at Oxford (I had no idea of that book before this).
The author decided to write some further adventures of the school bully, to hilarious results.The story starts out right after Harry Flashman is kicked out of school, the last you hear of him in School Days.
You will notice right away Harry Flashman is unlike most protagonists you are use to, even the scoundrel like.
You want to laugh? Fancy a little side trip down the byways of the politically incorrect? Do you secretly know you are not really the hero you pretend to be? Read this first volume of the Flashman Papers. A very clever, well-researched lifting of a single character from a classic and giving him one hell of a run for his money.Hilarious!
"...There is a painting of the scene at Gandamack, which I saw a few years ago, and it is like enough the real thing as a I remember it.
But I was there, you see, shivering with horror as I watched, unlike the good Londoners, who let the roughnecks and jailbirds keep their empire for them; they are good enough for getting cut up at the Gandamacks which fools like  Elphy and McNagthen bring 'em to, and no great loss to anybody..." *'Elphy' and 'McNagthen' refers to the military commander and political appointee respectively in charge of the campaign during the First Anglo-Afghan War
