https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/98532.The_Female_Eunuch
Menstruation and Black women's hair.
One that wanted to instil guilt as much push for some kind of equality?She reminds me of those black women who think that all black women ought to have locks or a natural or at worst/best an afro.
And white women who get tans and frizz out their hair are expropriating black women's assets without realising what an insulting political act they are doing.
Actually white women just like getting tanned, they think it looks better (it does, I'm a red head, I'm jealous) and like messing around with their hair.But not as much as black women.
Greer hates trans people.The Female Eunuch is one of the touchstone texts of second-wave feminism.
However, through reading her most famous book I now see that she and I are quite similar.
I adore her humour and incredibly condescending prose, it's quite a refreshing read for a text that was written 45 years ago.
This book basically Everything You Always Wanted to Know About Feminism (But Were Afraid to Ask).
While it is dry at parts, overall the book is enjoyable and informative.
I would recommend this for anyone who wants to know more about second-wave feminism and feminism as a whole really.
Luckily I read this book after I got married, otherwise I wouldn't have married at all. After reading it, I sat down to discuss it with my wife (it was immediately after marriage, and I had high hopes that we two could have long intellectual discussions in our life together). After I gave her a précis of the book, I suggested that she read it.What she suggested I do with the book was not entirely polite.However, I learnt one thing: women's freedom consists of  NOT  choosing to read feminist lite
Luckily I read this book after I got married, otherwise I wouldn't have married at all. After reading it, I sat down to discuss it with my wife (it was immediately after marriage, and I had high hopes that we two could have long intellectual discussions in our life together). After I gave her a précis of the book, I suggested that she read it.What she suggested I do with the book was not entirely polite.However, I learnt one thing: women's freedom consists of 
  NOT
 choosing to read feminist literature too.
I adore men, I love my cigarettes and scotch, take pleasure in my womanly curves; simultaneously I greatly want women to obtain their freedom of rights.
Feminism may be an archaic phenomenon in the urban world yet it is still in the nascent form in numerous authoritarian patriarchal configurations and societies plagued with female foeticide.
This manuscript does justice to such dwellings where women irrespective to their economical standing bear subjugation to various norms of religion and cultural obligations.Alas!
I cannot go through anymore feminism prose.
My audacious teenage years and traumatic squabbles with my mother altered me as Simone de Beauvoir of the house.
Men are susceptible too, just so I don't have any men pop to be all "But it's so hard to be a man..." Yes, yes, sure it is, but we're not talking about you right now, so step off.If you watch commercials on TV today, you are still inundated with ads for things that tell men that their women want diamonds in order to feel loved...
This book was fascinating and made me rethink being a woman. It deals with the suppression of the female intellect, identity, and psychological development. My soon-to-be-husband was NOT happy I read this - I really reacted to what I was reading. I simmered down eventually.
Brilliant. This book should be required reading for everyone, not just women.
Greer cuts through our absurdly patriarchal fantasies of romantic love, diagnosing the misery and anxiety they cause, and draws a picture of the female stereotype as castrated - a passive receptacle for male sexuality. She also implicates capitalism in shaping and reinforcing patriarchy, with some great passages on the history of women in work. The book is also highly readable, non-technical and funny.I've recently found out that Greer's later work is explicitly cissexist and transphobic, so I'm not reading her any more.
Greer also at time inadvertently makes me laugh by criticising accademic feminism in a highly accademic book and criticising the classism in feminism which dealing mainly with middle class issues.Maybe one of the most interesting things I got from reading this book is a view of hoiw feminism itself has changed.
Feminism today is much more accessible, both in it's texts and in the way it operates, and we are started to acnowledge a lot more intersection which I think can only be a good thing.
I did not know any of this when I bought The Female Eunuch.As it happens, this book has been languishing at the bottom of my to-read list ever since, while I have gone on to read several amazing feminist books, old and new, which shaped me as a woman and changed my life and outlook for the better.And now I picked this up because I'm cleaning out my bookshelves and going through my unread books to see if I want to keep them.
Germaine Greer is better off ignored and forgotten.
Forty five years ago, a softly spoken Australian published a delicate commentary on the position of women in the existing patriarchal society and how a small movement known as feminism has taken on a second attempt at evening things out a little.
No stone or assumption is left unturned, no door or circumstance left unopened and no closet, assumption, opinion or excuse is left un-riffled as Greer not only shows where things were (and are) going wrong but also demands of the reader 'what are you going to do?'.
Unfortunately, there's far too much about the concepts and obervations that Greer discusses in this book that are all too relevant to our current society.While many of the statistics are outdated and even perhaps the intensity of the need for change, there is still a very strong message to be found within.
In fact, my own reading of this book saw far more criticism on women than men - perhaps because it's obvious where men need to be criticised and more difficult to articulate the ways in which women have hindered their own liberation.
When I picked this up out of the Women's Studies section this past January, I was really adrift in life. Greer's book caught me and refocused me, entire paragraphs eliciting a 'fuck yes' aloud. Germaine underlines that uncomfortable feeling of what it means to be female in modern society, something I'd never noticed until falling into a heterosexual relationship. What does it mean to be expected to play traditional gender roles, to cater or ignore expectations?A milestone.
To try to review a book this monumental would be somewhat ridiculous, so instead I'll report on what it's like to encounter it for the first time so long after it created the ripples that it did with its impact.
I'm blown away by how much late Second Wave feminism is already present in this book from 1970 (still somewhat early in that movement).
I'm also blown away by how diverse her argument is, cogently handling psychology as well as biology as well as literature.
Greer can be brilliant, can be infuriating.
She can shine and she can let herself down horribly.
This is a book of its time and I read it when it was first published.
Back then, it blasted the cobwebs off a totally patriarchal society but did it in a witty and winning way.
This is Greer at her best.It is sad that whilst this book is now somewhat dated, the battle it engaged with has still not been won.
Books like this are still worth reading and their arguments worth taking on board.
If I met someone at a party who described herself as a speculative anthropologist (which Greer does not, btw), I'd be hard put not to snort in her face, let alone offer to read her unscientific speculatively anthropological text. So many paragraphs of ungrounded but somewhat believable "men act this way, women are made to act this way", it's tiring and not insightful enough for me to continue.Which is disappointing, because if anyone was ready to feel ashamed of the antics of his own gender, it was me!
The Female Eunuch explores how a male-dominated Western society has, over the centuries, conditioned women to regard themselves in certain stereotypical ways (ways, needless to say, in which most men too regard women).
In the course of The Female Eunuch, Greer manages to emphasise the fact that women—from the moment of their birth—are conditioned by society to act, dress, speak, work, etc in a certain way, and that that way is designed to subjugate women.
Greer appears to have taken, as her stereotypes for women (and men) the most conditioned, most extreme representatives of society.
There were a great many sections in this book where I found Greer's words to be angry and dripping with disdain when she talked about things like excessive mothering of children, and the ever-present fairytale notion of love.Greer splits her book into four sections: Body, Soul, Love, and Hate, along with a chapter entitled Revolution at the very end.
However, there were a lot of points that Greer made within her book that really stuck out to me, particularly notions of love and the rearing of children.
Amazing! All women should read this! Greer really explains how I have been feeling about life, the world, being married, suppressed, not listened to, dismissed, abused and so fourth. This is the first book I've read that says I'm not crazy! I have so much to say but I want to read this again, it was so life inspiring and opened my eyes!
Since Greer wrote this, parents have attempted to raise children in a neutral way and seen boys blowing up dolls and nursing fire trucks, suggesting things are a bit more complex than one might have thought.Still, Greer's theory that women are forced into a self-perpetuating mold was a good one, and she makes a strong case that women's limitations are, to a great extent, man-made.Unfortunately, Greer comes across as the stereotypical feminist, humorless, angry, elitis, and certain to a fault.
Ultimately I gave up on the book, because I found it so unlikable.It was the right book at the right time, and said a lot of things that needed saying.
It's so strange reading this again for the first time since I was a teenager. Greer is amazing: witty, funny, spookily perceptive on some things, and hilariously wrong on others. She wastes no time hemming-and-hawing around an idea, but she's pretty humble about how wrong she might be too.She's definitely in my top ten for who would you invite to a dinner party if you could invite anyone at all.
Despite the age of this book, I still think that most of the insights ring true even today. This book definitely stirred me to support the cause and I particularly admire the passionate way Greer writes. This book played on my mind for a long time after I read it, which I think shows its power even 40 years on
ان العلاقة القائمة بين الجنسين هي علاقة صراع يمتلك فيها الرجل اليد العليا لانه اقوى جسديا وتدفع المراة ثمنا باهضا لربح كل معركة تخوضها على كل النساء التعرف على تاريخهن والافتخار بكل النساء الشجاعات اللواتي ساهمن في تحريرهن من العبودية وتحسين وضعهن لكي يصبح كما هو عليه اليوم ومع ذلك لازالت هناك الكثير من الحقوق التي يجب المطالبة بها لذا كن يدا واحدة ان استقلالية المراة واحتفاظها بحياتها الخاصة هي الضامن الوحيد للامان.
It's a classic, which is why it should still be required reading for any feminist trying to educate themselves. But it's very, very much of its time, very much the work of a second waver with all the problematic attitudes towards sexuality, homosexuality and race that that implies. Worth reading as an historical record, but not something that I base my own thought on, really.
It's validating, this book, from the first sentence. Talk of women breaking through the glass ceiling only to settle. Fighting for equality only to go to college to STILL shop for husbands. Great book. Sad nothing's advanced since.
كتاب فريد من نوعه.. أفكار لاذعة، لكنها تستحق التأمل. على المرأة التي تحاول أن تقرأ هذا الكتاب أن تتأمل روحها في مرآة هذا الكتاب، بعد كل فصل!يحتوي هذا الكتاب على قدر أكثر مما ينبغي من الكشف..
...very compelling arguments on feminism, and a strong case the 'rational' of subjugation women.I would recommend this book to every woman, but importantly, to men.
Rather than liberating anyone, we clearly have just suckered the men into our cage.Greer seeks for women “the right to express her own sexuality; which is not at all the same thing as the right to capitulate to male advances.” She argues that female libido is not merely responsive and pushes for freedom for women to pursue their own desires without threat of societal disapproval.
Real gratification is not enshrined in a tiny cluster of nerves but in the sexual involvement of the whole person.” She argues that the sex education of both men and women is lacking (and leads to guilt and hatred on both sides).In her discussion of love, Greer advocates for many things of which I approve.
Thank Goodness, I'm finished.
Such a hard book to review, though.
Silly 6.
Terrible7.
BoringI'll give just a few examples, because I yearn to move on and read something good.
5. Silly - Greer states, that mother-child bond is one of the things responsible for most of the evil in the world.
And, also, in the very end, Greer says that reforms are for shit.
6. Terrible - there are many transphobic, mysoginistic, homophobic and racist passages.
It's the 70s, so I'm not that surprised by her transphobia and homophobia, but to see pure misogyny in a feminist book is unexpected.

