https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/10985.The_Town
Superb, this, the second in the Snopes trilogy, is an improvement from and much more accessible than The Hamlet, the trilogy's first, and than all Faulkner other than The Unvanquished, which is a series of shorts, and Light in August.I was most certainly surprised, saddened and ultimately edified upon learning of the fate of a critical and highly symbolic character, bound to doom by the growing commercialization of the American South in the first few decades of the 20th Century.
Within the narration of these three, there is much humor to be found, at least in the first 3/4 of the book, and perhaps that was what was missing for me in The Hamlet, which I know is supposed to have its own humor, but for me it was ponderous and laborious.Sarcasm and ludicrousness sprinkled here and there produced chuckles of recognition, but somewhere in the middle is a set-piece (also published as the short story 'Mule in the Yard') so hilarious that I gave a retelling of it to my husband.
Though only for a moment because in the next one, if only you followed long enough, they would wilt and fail from that mere plain and simple striding which would shred them away like the wheel of a constellation through a wisp and cling of trivial scud.Should the reader not have read The Hamlet, one can only imagine why such a creature would be the wife of the abhorrent Flem Snopes.
This thought is integral to The Town because the small town of Jefferson, Yoknapatawpha County, Mississippi (I can neither spell nor pronounce the name of this county) really is no place for a woman who can walk in such a way and feel perfectly comfortable doing so.I look forward to reading the third and final installment.
I hate William Faulkner.I hate the fact that I can't even give this book a five because I would have to give The Sound and the Fury and Absalom, Absalom!
I hate the fact that he could both write with the utmost complexity and utmost simplicity.
I hate the fact that to me, he's so good that I can place five of his books on my personal top 10 without flinching.
Damn Faulkner.
I hate how I can't write as well as him as yet.
I hate him for being so damn good.
Faulkner lets the insidious Snopes roots take hold in an actual town, where we find America burgeoning with the advent of the car, banking, somewhat more officious law enforcement/judiciary, etc. This book seems less stylistically and structurally adventurous than The Hamlet, but holds together more cohesively and really enmeshes the reader in time and place. The machinations of Flem Snopes are utterly fascinating and no one seems safe from, or clever enough to match, his ambition/compulsion.
"And it don't take no especial coward to not want to walk into that store and up to old man Will Varner and tell him his daughter aint reformed even yet, that she's been sleeping around again for 18 years now, with a feller she ain't married to, and that her husband aint got guts enough to know what do do about it," writes Faulkner of the central plot of this work.
One could argue that lots of characters in "The Town" (and other Faulkner works) need reforming, but they won't, they never will.
Think again: that's why we still read Faulkner.
The second part of the "Snopes" trilogy, "Town" isn't that crappy Ben Affleck movie at all, but is rather the continuance of the story of Flem Snopes, back-country ass-hat turned "respectable" citizen of Jefferson and his efforts to maintain respectability while quietly destroying everyone around him.Grey knight lawyer Gavin Stevens is on hand as narrator, as is his nephew Chick and salesman VK Ratliff.
It's really about them, interspersed with laugh-out-loud episodes that will make you wish you'd grown up in Jefferson (which is Faulkner's trajectory towards his most-fun novel, "The Reivers") and downright tragic shit ("Fable"-type stuff).Crucially wonderful!
And my personal favourite Wallstreet Panic Snopes, who is a young and up-and-coming whippersnapper running successful downtown grocery stores and possibly the only threat to Flem's small-town empire.
Gavin Stevens and V.K. Ratklif have to be my personal favourites though - Stevens is a lawyer with strong values and someone intent on stopping the Snopes if anyone at all is going to but someone who always gets caught up in the whirlwind of beautiful women, just like in other books.
This here is the kind of thing a man has to know his—himself.” Ratliff corrects himself before Mallison, Jr. who’s been to Harvard (though he begins the book as a kid of five).
“Because what somebody else tells you, you jest half believe, unless it was something you already wanted to believe…In that case, you don’t even listen to it, because you had done already agreed, and so all it does is make you think what a sensible feller it was that told you”(258).
Then, on our US Prez, “a feller that jest wants money for the sake of money, there’s a few things right at the last that he wont do, will stop at.
And yet…well, obviously, when one is reading one of the great writers of the age, as indeed I believe Faulkner to be, one is not just asking ‘is this a good book’, because of course it’s a good book, even the shit Faulkner tossed out just for money (The Reivers, I’m looking at you) are really good.
The main characters in the book – Lawyer Stevens, Eula and Linda, and of course Flem himself – never quite come together.
Various smaller bits, about the rest of the Snopes clan and pitiful folk they abuse, are far stronger, but the motivations for the major characters felt, ultimately, either vague or kind of unconvincing.
K. Ratliff.Each character relates or furthers the others’ accounts of the events that transpire.
It is a tale of wonder, mystery, and outrage.
It is by turns quite hilarious, mysterious, suspenseful, infuriating, and stunningly poignant.I can’t imagine Faulkner having written any lines that could be more powerful or more poignant or simply beautiful than the passages found in this novel.It is a heartbreaker.
Not that its characters are doomed or forsaken, just that it is beyond my capacity to believe that William Faulkner could have ever written anything approaching the brilliance that struts across these pages.I completely loved this novel.Highest possible recommendation.
W. Faulkner wanted to be a poet, than short story teller and after not succeeding in neither of these (he himself thought so), he became a writer of novels, of big and complicated ones, of "Sound and the Fury", "Light in August", "Absalom, Absalom", etc.
It reminded me of "The Reivers" - especially those parts told by Chick Mallison, and "Sartoris" - where we get known to the city of Jefferson, it's first car and bank and then we see further development of the Yoknapatawpha county in "The Town".Finally we get acquainted to the Flem Snopes and his family better.
Stevens' evolution as a character alone is worth the read; the revelations about Eula & Flem are even more astonishing, especially for anyone familiar with The Town's precursor, The Hamlet.One question I have for other readers is what does Faulkner's preponderance of the phrase "All right" signify?
The phrase seems to appear more often than it does in his other novels, and it seems that the phrase is usually ironic since so little is "all right."The other question I have is about "women" who are not interested in romance (322).
Some ghosts, or real people, are going to kill me...but Faulkner is BETTER than Shakespeare...no one
Probably Faulkner's most under appreciated novel. Highly experimental, yet not acknowledged as such.
That's not to say Faulkner presents the traditional South in a good light, but its demise at the hands of a Flem Snopes is an indignity (which Faulkner obviously intended to deal with satirically when he thought The Town was going to be a funny book.)There is enough here to remind one of Faulkner's writing when his powers were greater to justify reading The Town.
The Town is the second book in the “Snopes trilogy.” It begins where The Hamlet ends and tells the story of the rise of Flem Snopes in Jefferson. It isn’t nearly as grotesque as The Hamlet, perhaps because it is set in town, rather than in the Frenchman’s Bend hamlet, perhaps because it is narrated principally by Chick Mallison and Gavin Stevens, or perhaps simply because Faulkner has mellowed in the 26 years which separated the books.This was a return visit for me, and Mr. Faulkner never disappoints.
I thought the use of narrators to be skillful, and I did not mind V.K. Ratliff or Gavin Stevens the way I normally do.
I loved the story of Ratliff’s name and how it was revealed by Eula.
I found Eula fascinating but comical in “The Hamlet,” a woman whose beauty was a “natural phenomenon like a cyclone or a tidewave.” In “The Town” I found her to be one of the most heartbreaking female characters in all of Faulkner, a woman whose life is at a dead end after her fate is traded too many times among the men closest to her.
It is also one of the more accessible reads of Faulkner's.It contains only three narrators: Chick Mallison (a boy who contains the bulk of the narrative and whose internal monologue complicates itself over time in the book until it reaches maturity by the end), Gavin Stevens (one of Faulkner's most profoundly moving and deep creations, a mind as sharp and touching as Quentin Compson in The Sound and The Fury) and V.
The meat of the book is clearly Faulkner's examination of the corruption of Southern ideals by the modernization of the business model, oligarchy, favoritism, corruption, and exclusion.
Gavin, Ratliff, and even Chick by the end oppose it gallantly.
Though this book lacks the scope of "The Hamlet" which has an almost mythic quality about it, I like that this book features the story told by three characters, two who are intimately connected with the action (V.K. Ratliff and Stevens) and one (Chick Mallison, Gavin Stevens' nephew, who is removed from the action -- in fact the first chapter which is narrated by Chick takes place before he is born, so his "version" of the events is entirely dependent on what Ratliff and his uncle Gavin told him.
Lukupiiripakkopulla, osa 2. Alussa kertaus edellisen osan tapahtumista parhaaseen sarjatyyliin. Silti olin jo pudonnut kärrryiltä sivulla 25 enkä päässyt takaisin kyytiin. Lauseet tässä kirjassa lyhyempiä, mutta pronominien käytössä (ja ehkä muutamassa muussakin asiassa) yhä ongelmia. Beat-runous ja Nostradamus ovat selkokieltä tämän rinnalla. Harvinaisen vapaasti irti reaalimaailmasta leijaileva naiskuva. "Oletko koskaan luonut silmäystä tyttöön? Sinä olet inhimillinen vaikka oletkin nainen." Niin, muistin monia kertoja jolloin isä oli syntynyt liian aikaisin, ennen kuin tytöille vihellettiin ihastuksesta.
This is a much more complex story than we find in its prequel The Hamlet. Told in three first-person POVs, it offers a rounded presentation of perspectives on the slow degeneration of the small Southern town. The child narrator, Charles Mallison, is an especial joy. The humor isn't as wild as in The Hamlet, but the subtlety and its organic growth from the characters only strengthens the story.
If you have never read Faulkner, you have missed out on one of the greatest writers of all time. However none of his books made it to my favorite 50 list. When reading one of his books, it is a favorite but a year later fades from my memory. Perhaps my weakness and not the books flaw. But I still look forward to reading the 6 more books of his still on my shelf.
Book 2 full of Snopes, and "Jefferson" Mississippi, and doings in the wider world (Snopes in WWI France, providing loose women and bringing those naughty postcards back home!), even Greenwich Village gets a shout out...
Great southern literature. Chap. 16, with Mrs. Hait and the mules, is great.
I liked the people from the hamlet more. The city doesn't have that personality. Also the tragic-comic parts were fewer.
Faulkner's trilogy expands from the small town of Frenchman's Bend to the larger Jefferson in the second installment of the Snopes trilogy.
At the heart of the novel is the conflict between the old southern aristocracy of Will Varner and the new, acquisitive, amoral Snopes family, with the Jefferson townspeople caught in the middle.
Each chapter is told from the point of view of a different character.
At the same time, these changing perspectives allow for different insights on the characters and events of the story that help make The Town an enjoyable, intriguing and, ultimately, tragic read.
Even a mediocre Faulkner rates from great to excellent in my opinion. I'm hoping the Mansion will be up to the standards of the Hamlet and finish the series strong.
4.5 stars. It has taken me exactly one decade to bring myself to read The Town, the second novel in Faulkner's Snopes Trilogy, after being totally flummoxed when reading the first novel,  The Hamlet . Actually, "flummoxed" isn't the right word. That book scarred me for life. (The infamous story of Ike and his cow, the schoolmaster's assault on Eula, Flem Snopes' outrageous con-artistry, etc.) The trilogy has remained on my bookshelf for a decade, haunting me (and taunting me?) as I've moved acro
It has taken me exactly one decade to bring myself to read The Town, the second novel in Faulkner's Snopes Trilogy, after being totally flummoxed when reading the first novel, 
When thinking the other day that it has been ten years to the month since I read The Hamlet, I thought now was finally the time to crack open the trilogy and dive into that second Snopes novel.
I can't imagine how overwhelming The Town would be for someone just beginning to read his fiction, with all the tangents about random characters from other works who aren't central to the novel.
Because look how, even though the last of west is no longer green and all of firmament is now one unlidded studded slow-wheeling arc and the last of earth-pooled visibility has drained away, there still remains one faint diffusion, since everywhere you look about the dark panorama you still see them, faint as whispers: the faint and shapeless lambence of blooming dogwood returning loaned light to light as the phantoms of candles would.And you, the old man, standing there while there rises to you, about you, suffocating you, the spring dark peopled and myriad, two and two seeking never at all solitude but simply privacy, the privacy decreed and created for them by the spring darkness, the spring weather, the spring which an American poet, a fine one, a woman and so she knows, called girls' weather and boys' luck.
