https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/371023.The_Galton_Case
This is the first great Lew Archer novel, and it has all the important Ross Macdonald themes: money, family betrayal, a masquerade, and a crime in the present linked to a crime in the past.There are two things that make this novel great.
Every line of dialogue, every bit of description, contributes to the beauty of the whole.
It is almost without flaw: for me, the only memorable blot is a slightly clunky last line.
I have long since trained myself to ignore these typical Macdonald lapses.)The second thing that makes this book great is the ending, unusual for any mystery novel but particularly surprising for Macdonald.
After all the tragic events, it ends with joy.
Archer actually did not even have time to agree to the job before the first dead body dropped by to say hi.My biggest complaint about the previous book was the actual lack of investigation by Archer.
This time the guy really earned his money.
He also got beaten up a couple of times, pretty bad even by his own standards (bad guy always love to use him as a punching bag).
As I already mentioned this is a big improvement over the previous book which was so weak that is almost made me reconsider my decision to read the whole series.
When detective Lew Archer is hired to find the long-missing son of a wealthy dying woman, the case seems simple enough . . . but before you know it, there's a juicy murder, a headless skeleton, and plenty of dames in tight-fitting clothing. Things become pretty convoluted, but Macdonald keeps it all darned entertaining. This was a highly enjoyable outing in a series that demands further investigation.
We lawyers don't deal in ultimate realities.
We deal in appearances.” ― Ross Macdonald, The Galton CaseRoss Macdonald definitely dances down the same literary streets as Hammett and Chandler.
This hardboiled detective novel, the 8th in the Lew Archer series, feels like it was written in one continuous sitting (that is a good thing).
'The Galton Case' has a naked narrative intensity that is well-supported by its witty dialogue and California Noir setting.
If Proust was edited by Hemingway, liked bad girls (well OK, sometimes Proust liked bad girls) and wrote hardboiled novels, he'd be Ross Macdonald.
The first half of the book is terrific, and the twist in the middle is good, just what you'd expect from a top detective story. Unfortunately, the pacing slides and as we approach the conclusion, the writing becomes almost a laundry list of rushed explanations, as if MacDonald were bored with this book.And I was not surprised by the ending at all, sadly.Update: His book "Find a Victim" is worse, but with some moments of brilliant prose.
For a writer, reading Ross MacDonald can be an intimidating experience destined to cause vast amounts of envy.
The simplicity and yet stark beauty of his prose; the sheer perfect poetry of his descriptions; the way he can do so much with just a few lines of dialogue – like his one time friend and mentor, Raymond Chandler, MacDonald is able to lift genre fiction to a place where it becomes literature.
It’s not a perfect book by any means, the ending is too rushed with perhaps one twist too many; but for the most part, reading it is to marvel at a talent quite brilliant.
Like many others I'm reading the Archer books chronologically, starting with the first one.
There are many signs in the first books that Ross Macdonald is a phenomenon, but generally it was like a more insecure Chandler, surrounding himself like an octopus with ink with too many strained metaphors and far too poetic descriptions.
I intellectually know that chances are that every next Archer book will not be like the Galton Case, that there likely will be more dud installments, and maybe an overal post-peak decline by some point, but emotionally I hope very much that this impeccable prose-weaving level will come up many mnay more times in mr.
After finishing, I’m glad this series has been brought to my attention and I’ll definitely look into more in the series.
The Galton Case involves Archer being summoned to help an elderly woman track down her son (Anthony) who has been missing for some twenty years.
Archer seems to think, and with good reason, that there are quite a few secrets that are hidden under the surface of this investigation concerning many of the key principle characters.
I do believe that The Galton Case is a perfect way to start the Archer series if you haven’t started yet, but are interested.
Ίσως, το καλύτερο μυθιστόρημα του McDonald με 'δυνατούς' διαλόγους και στοιχειωτική ατμόσφαιρα - Μια έξυπνη παρουσίαση της 'σκοτεινής' πλευράς της Αμερικής των τελών της δεκαετίας του '50 - Το πιο γρήγορο σε ροή και στην εξέλιξη της πλοκής βιβλίο του MacDonald (1959).
Το στοιχείο που κάνει εντύπωση από την αρχή είναι οι έξυπνοι και δημιουργικοί διάλογοι μεταξύ των ηρώων.
Ο αναγνώστης έρχεται αντιμέτωπος με την στοιχειωτική ατμόσφαιρα που κυριαρχεί στα σπίτια των χαρακτήρων και, ειδικά, στη μυστηριώδη έπαυλη της κυρίας Γκάλτον.
The going gets pretty brutal what with a couple of murders and a very violent beat-down but it's character rich.
I genuinely enjoyed the way Macdonald/Millar developed his characters, giving them histories and unexpected motives.Plenty of highly quotable passages but as I paused somewhere around chapter five to read another book (out of print at this time) by a different author at their request, I had to start the book all over.This novel has paragraphs that flow like great poetry.
Macdonald is at the top of his game here.
...[her] emotion was like spontaneous combustion in an old hope chest.
Twisty little book, for sure, with an ending that I wasn't expecting. More when I get back on Monday.
I read my first Lew Archer novel just a couple of weeks ago and was very impressed.
the lawn was the color of the ink they use to print the serial numbers on banknotes, and it stretched in unbroken smoothness for a couple of hundred yards.
The white facade of a pre-Mizener Spanish mansion glared in the green distance.""The color of the ink they use to print the serial numbers on banknotes" - as soon as I read that phrase I knew that I would be including that paragraph in this review.
World weary (she had blue white hair and a look on her face you dont see too often anymore, the look of a woman who hasn't been disappointed) and philistine detective Lew Archer is put on the case by Gordon Sable, the old woman's lawyer.
I also liked the descriptions of small town American buildings, motels and landscapes.It is a great yarn that stumbles briefly when Archer is kidnapped and given a beating by thugs - it somehow came across as a token fistfight or action scene in a movie.
If you don't especially like the Ross Macdonald novels you keep reading, don't give up because eventually you will find one you really enjoy! For me it was this.While it wasn't at all the main point, a lot of this book seemed to be about how it sucks to be a woman. It did an amazing job of showing a changing California, and I loved seeing this view of my home state in a transitional stage before my own day. Plus an awesome plot that kept ahead of me without dirty tricks and Archer in top form. Good times.
Τελευταία φορά που διάβασα βιβλίο του Ρος Μακντόναλντ ήταν τον Μάρτιο του 2014, ενώ και γενικά Αμερικάνικα αστυνομικά νουάρ των δεκαετιών του '50 και του '60 είχα επίσης καιρό να διαβάσω.
Όπως ήταν λογικό, μου έλειψε πολύ το εξαιρετικό και μοναδικό στιλ του συγγραφέα, που μπορώ να πω ότι είναι στο ίδιο επίπεδο με τον μαιτρ του είδους, Ρέιμοντ Τσάντλερ.Η υπόθεση Γκάλτον είναι μια άκρως μπερδεμένη ιστορία απάτης και εγκλήματος, με τον ψύχραιμο και άνετο Λου Άρτσερ να αναλαμβάνει να βγάλει μια άκρη.
A very good entry in the Lew Archer PI series with an extra twist at the end.
You can pick up almost any book in his sun-dazzled Lew Archer series and enjoy mid-century California noir like no other.http://www.barnesandnoble.com/u/featu...She's right, and reading MacDonald again after the Flynn catalog highlights the former's influence on the latter.
So it's safe to say I like his work although I don't know if I can identify a standout novel with which to start.
Maybe The Moving Target or The Way Some People Die. I don't think I'd recommend The Galton Case right off the bat, although the novel maybe aims higher and darker than some of MacDonald's more conventional work.
This one uses the same structure and the same private eye, but the big difference here is that The Galton Caseapplies James's "lucid reflector" strategy to Archer, yielding something far removed from Chandler's neon-tube metaphors and half-serious gangster slang.
Macdonald's private eye angle can be seen as a framing device, and a very effective one at that: here, for once, is a good excuse for putting together these particulars into a "story," and an occasion for relating them.
The reason that this novel works at all is that that writer is a good enough writer that he puts his reflector's limitations ahead of his own concerns.
Hired by the family lawyer, whose thug of a house man is murdered shortly after Archer is hired, the family's for which Archer now works is every bit as unpleasant as the one that hired Philip Marlowe worked for in "The Big Sleep." When it became clear (in something of a flukey way) that the house man had some kind of unsavory connection to the town in which the missing man was last seen, Archer swings into action to examine the connection.
The nature of California's moneyed classes are always under examination, and in much deeper ways than Chandler and Hammett provided, though the books seem more dated in some ways than those of Chandler and Hammett.


later addition: crime fiction as comfort reading?
well something like that, great plot, promises and cynicism both reversed, play the game.
it has been some time since the first reading, but it definitely holds up.
i would suggest macdonald brought crime into the living room...first review: this is a bourgeois fairy tale, mistaken identity, mistaken childhood, of being a prince or a pauper, this is my favorite feel-good archer investigation.
deceptive, absurd, extensive, years conspiracy and then cynicism of all good detectives strained, broken, revealing the improbable final twist, a resolution more psychological than criminal.
Fantastic. MacDonald clearly steps out from the shadow of Raymond Chandler with this book. Less cynical and conflicted than Chandler's Philip Marlowe, Lew Archer fits the template of the jaded private eye, but with a more resigned, is-what-it-is outlook on life and corruption. The writing style is less dense and elaborate than Chandler's, but still effective in its bleak starkness. A great novel, not just a great detective novel.
This is one of the best plotted mysteries in detective fiction I have ever read! The writing is very clean and elegant to with some excellent turns of phrase for genre fiction!
there are many twists in this story. it takes a long time for Archer to get people to start telling the truth, and then all of the pieces reveal a story of some terribly sad people who keep making choices that only trap them further. beautifully written.
As someone who has read all of Hammett and most of Chandler twice, I’m grateful for Ross Macdonald.
A truly great noir novel with a surprisingly upbeat ending. The plot is complex but superbly put together, and Macdonald's prose is is a virtuoso performance, economical, evocative and memorable. Look to the passage about a sort of beat poet's recital at a jazz club for proof that here is one the great prose stylists of the genre, or any genre.
Every Ross Macdonald fan probably has their own favorite but I tend to see his writings as Lawrence Block (I think it's Block)all being the same book with just different details and characters.
Reading this the 2nd time through reminded me that this is one of my favorites just like another one I re-read the same week, The Chill.
If you want to read something in the style of Chandler or Hammett, Macdonald is the one to read.
Whereas Hammett and Chandler wrote no more than a dozen novels combined, with Macdonald you have over 20.
An extremely rich woman wants Lew Archer to find her long-lost son, in hopes she can make amends before she dies.It sounds like the coldest of cold cases, but things heat up soon enough.
Lies, murder, despair abound.
Archer must contend with deceptions and truly despicable people before he can unravel the tangled web of murder and scheming.This is the eighth book in the Archer series, but one of the great strengths of this particular string of novels is that you can pick up any one of them without worrying about the order.
If you have not read Macdonald, "The Galton Case" is as fine a place to start as any.
Audible. I listened to this book while driving to Sacramento and then to San Francisco. Macdonald is always a reliable, lean, mean read. The Galton Case is set along the coast west from Redwood City, in San Francisco, over to Sacramento. Late 40s and early 50s. Not only a good story but gave me such a wonderful sense of driving through history. Drives (and listens) don't get much more satisfying. And I'll always give Ross Macdonald a 4. Can't do what he does any better. .
