https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/438323.The_Forty_Days_of_Musa_Dagh
According to Wiki, it was this novel, which Werfel is said to have researched in depth, which revealed the events upon which it is based to the world beyond Turkey.
It was published in 1933, 18 years after those events.The book was banned in Turkey in 1935.
for a section that clarifies some of the main parts of the story which are pretty much now known to be essentially true.) And the Turkish government has maintained that the entire Armenian Genocide is a fiction, from the 1930s when the book was published, down to the present day.
He was buried in an unmarked grave.”>At front, the author’s grandmother, his father, and his grandfather.Courtesy Khatchadourian FamilyThe article has the following sections:I Resurrection II InfernoIII Remembrancewhich prompted me to think of the novel’s three books.The more public aspect of Khatchadourian’s story concerns how the genocide, for so long denied vehemently by the Turkish government, is now, finally, a century later, beginning to be acknowledged by common people in Turkey as a thing which not only happened, but which deserves, in the minds and hearts of many, some sort of expiation.
E ci porta a condividere la sorte di questi poveri cinquemila derelitti che con un pugno di fucili e ben poche risorse riescono a resistere nonostante i Turchi ma anche nonostante le loro pochezze, le rivalità interne, gli egoismi personali e l'avidità dei singoli."L'uomo non sa chi è, prima di essere stato messo alla prova"E' difficile non pensare che l'occhio di Werfel guardando gli armeni pensasse anche al popolo ebreo (e chissà che magari presagisse l'olocausto degli ebrei che sarebbe arrivato di lì a pochi anni).
Non l'esterminio di tutto un popolo era il peggiore degli orrori, ma l'esterminio della coscienza, in tutto un popolo."Ma ecco che alcuni villaggi Armeni collocati alle pendici del Mussa Dagh (Montagna di Mosè), comprendendo il disegno degli ottomani, decidono di fare della montagna il loro rifugio, e circa 5.000 persone, lasciano sì la propria casa, ma hanno come obiettivo la resistenza.
Preferiscono pensare di morire di stenti piuttosto che nelle mani del popolo ottomano.Questa è la storia romanzata, epica, leggendaria dei quaranta giorni di resistenza sul Mussa Dagh.Il microcosmo in cattività, le dinamiche che si vengono a creare, i comportamenti eroici, e quelli meschini, gli odi, la sopravvivenza, la fame.
(hide spoiler)]Non che Gabriele & Famiglia ne escano meglio, avrebbe potuto scegliere di farli crescere nella loro nuova condizione e non di condannarli a morte come due stupidi.
Un modo per pagare il tributo alla causa armena e sancire le colpe degli europei (come sottolinea anche lo sceicco derviscio) che con il loro intervento hanno sancito un interessamento non dovuto.L'ultimo capitolo a me è sembrato molto sopra le righe, capisco l'attribuzione simbolica di Gabriele (view spoiler)[che si immola  (hide spoiler)](anche alla luce della conversione di Werfel), costruito su una sorte di percorso-viacrucis verso la redenzione, come se dovesse scontare la colpa di essersi allontanato dal suo popolo per 40 anni.
Fu quello che Hitler definì come una prova generale del suo progetto contro gli ebrei.
Gabriele convince gli abitanti dei villaggi armeni, pronti alla deportazione, ad una resistenza armata sulle pendici del monte che durerà quaranta giorni.
Le descrizioni sono particolareggiate e armoniche, quasi slegate dal resto della lettura che ho percepito in alcuni tratti lenta e molto asciutta.La prima parte dedicata alle persecuzioni, scorre lenta, come le colonne che svuotano i villaggi, “un ritmo strascicato di milioni di passi, quale la terra non aveva ancor mai conosciuto”.
I feel bad giving this such a mediocre grade, not least because of how important it is as a historical document (not to mention as inspiration to the fighters in the Warsaw Ghetto), but as a novel it is too full of melodrama and Romance for me, and the prose itself does the job fine but is not exactly impressive. I can see why both Sylvester Stallone and Mel Gibson wanted to make movies of it at one time...
In seguito ci si avvicinerà, rimanendo comunque lontano dalla mole del Mussa Dagh.Forse per la poca dimestichezza con la distanza, il romanzo mi è parso diseguale, altalenante, ci sono passi avvincenti alternati a momenti privi di interesse, con menzione per la storia rosa tra Giulietta Bagradian e Gonzague Maris, di cui avrei fatto volentieri a meno.Naturalmente, i fatti storici sono di per sè talmente significativi da rendere il racconto comunque interessante e meritorio di essere conosciuto, ma Werfel esagera spesso, finendo per attutire l'effetto dei molti momenti di grande letteratura.
An exceptionally well-written book which I highly recommend for everyone interested in the history of Armenians in the Ottoman Empire, the genocide committed by the Turks in 1915 and the local Armenian resistance against the activities of the Ottoman Empire in the region.
Based on the real-life defense of Musa Dagh's Damlayik Werfel tells us the fictionalized story of the Turkish genocide of Armenians through the eyes of Gabriel Bagradian, an Armenian who, although growing up in his native village of Yoghonoluk near Musa Dagh, spent 23 years of his life living in France and Europe.
This novel, The Forty Days of Musa Dagh, published in Germany and then the United States, kept the Armenian genocide from being forgotten and lost under the enormity of the other losses of WWI.
One story that began to consume Franz was of 6 villages in southern Turkey, on the slopes of Musa Dagh (Mount Moses) near the Mediterranean coast.
There they held out from July to September of 1915, repelling one Turkish attack after another, until passing French ships managed to see their distress flag and rescued the 4,200 of them who survived.Franz Werfel's novel is based on this incident and it is absolutely compelling.
The 1915 genocide of the Turks against the Armenians told through the eyes of an Armenian head-of-family.
In my opinion, a forgotten masterpiece.Update: I read this book in my late teens - in other words, 50 years ago.
At the time, I was unaware of the continuing campaign by Armenians to persuade modern Turkey to acknowledge the events of the time as genocide.
Now, in 2009, Turkey's continued resistance to doing so is affecting foreign policy in more than one nation.
The U.S. Congress considered a resolution on the topic that was defeated in late 2007 under heavy pressure from the White House and from Turkey.
The story involves an Armenian, Gabriel Bagradian, who has returned to his family home in Syria from years of living in France, He is accompanied by his French wife, Juliette, and French-born son, Stephan.
The devastating death marches of Armenians have begun.
Gabriel leads the inhabitants of the seven villages in his area to Musa Dagh [Mount of Moses]; he is an Ottoman officer and has knowledge of military tactics.
On Damyalik Plateau they set up a village under the leadership of some of the leading citizens.
Gabriel is their military commander and final word on other Council decisions lie with the Gregorian priest, Ter Haigasun.
The leader, Gabriel Bagradian, is the primary focus of the story, but there is a large cast of characters and the story is told from these various viewpoints.
While I believe Turkey still refuses to officially acknowledge the Armenian genocide of WWI, this story is otherwise universally acknowledged to be accurate.
The Armenians were "expatriated." I don't know whether there were camps, but I think there were no large camps.
And especially so, when Werfel includes this:Had men the right to work out skilful plans by which this or that people should be stamped out?
Franz Werfel scrisse questo romanzo nel 1929 e lo pubblicò nel 1933, quindi 18 anni dopo il genocidio dei cristiani armeni ad opera dei turchi e 5 anni prima che lo stesso Werfel lasciasse Berlino a causa delle leggi razziali emanate dal governo di Hitler.
Leggendo questo dialogo, inoltre, ho avuto una fortissima sensazione di dejà vu: la caratterizzazione di Enver Pascià e il contesto generale potrebbero benissimo adattarsi a un romanzo sull’Olocausto, ma lo sterminio degli ebrei è ancora di là da venire e lo stesso Werfel non immaginava un futuro così atroce per gli ebrei anche se sapeva benissimo che ideologie simili avevano dei sostenitori anche in Europa.Un’opera quindi di grande valore sociale che, secondo me, travalica quello letterario.
And yet, and yet, the sheer length does weigh heavily on the reader's enjoyment, and I am quite at a loss to justify my own irrationally clement 5-star rating.Perhaps it is the documentary excellence, or the astute and close portrayal of characters and scenes, or simply the achievement in its entirety; Werfel's work is quite unparalleled and an inevitable read for anyone desiring a deep impression of genocide and resistance.
The Armenian characters possess a range of flaws, and whilst Franz Werfel does not hide the brutality of the Young Turk regime, he introduces several positive Turkish characters, who do what they can to help the Armenians.If you are interested in reading the book you almost certainly know the broad outcome of the siege of Musa Dagh, but the novel is still gripping, and the reader does not know the fate of the individual characters.
In writing the book, Franz Werfel clearly did an enormous amount of research about the siege and the wider Armenian Genocide, and the Armenian culture of the time.
When published , Werfel was living in Austria as Hitler rose to power and most literary critics then and now saw the book as a clarion call to European Jewry about the impending Holocaust .
With distant echoes of Masada , and of the very recent Hitlers Germany circa 1930's , Werfel explains in chilling detail how the Ottoman Empire systematically destroyed an entire population of some 1.5mm Armenian Christians while the so called civilized powers on both sides of the European trenches stood by and watched .
Regarding the story itself, it's a book that you can't put down.
More importantly, it's a masterwork of historical-fiction that illuminates in close-up and detailed fashion some of the cultural, political, and historical aspects of the tragic event which, even in its more factual and blatant respects, is not always well understood.
Using very detailed personal/ethnic portraits and, on a larger scale, the exposure of the co-occurence of a varied and multi-layered set of religious and political circumstances and the people who either cause or are bound by them, 'Die vierzig Tage...' is based on a non-fictional heroic stance by a group of Armenians from a few neighboring localities who fled to and held a mountain site during the Armenian Genocide, and the story often reaches out into the local, national and international cultures and institutions which acted or failed to act during the tragedy.
Ein unter die Haut gehender Roman um die Dorfgemeinschaft der sieben Dörfer am Fuße des Musa Dagh. Um der Ermordung durch die Türken und der ebenfalls tödlich endenden Umsiedlung zu entgehen, verschanzen sich etwa 4000 Armenier und Führung von Gabriel Bagradian, mit Frauen und Kindern auf dem fast uneinnehmbaren Berg. 40 Tage, Zeiten des Kampfes, der Auseinandersetzung mit den auch innerlich schwelenden Konflikten, 40 Tage Hoffnung aber auch Zweifel wozu das alles soll. Werfel schuf diesen Roman anhand eines Tatsachenberichtes, der ihm zufällig in die Hände fiel.
Maybe it was the longest book I ever read , but it was with great pleasure and interest that I got to page 878.
A heroic saga of the brave Armenian people in the first world war, that resisted bravely against the huge Turkish army trapped on the mountain Musa Dagh for 40 days until rescued by Allied ships.
A fascinating account of great faith, courage, endurance, which deserved to be portrayed on film.
The backstage of the Armenian genocide are presented very clearly so that it is impossible to deny it as a historical fact.
So precious to own this book in my mother tongue.
Dolore, disperazione, speranza, riscossa, ancora dolore.Ho letto molti libri sul genocidio armeno ma (e qui scriverò una cosa lapalissiana), sono i romanzi quelli che mi hanno più toccata perché, anche se con una certa dose di "finzione narrativa", danno l'idea di quante sofferenze, barbarie, pene, paure ci siano state. Quest'anno ricorre il centenario.
Today is the 100th anniversary of the massacre of 1.5 million Armenians at the hands of the Ottoman Empire. When first I heard that fact, I picked up this book and still remember the powerful reading experience.
This is a truly great book. It has great characters and tremendous drama. It also provides great insight into the problems between Armenians and Turks. And it's a great read. I couldn't stop readingi t.
Krásně napsaný příběh o počátcích genocídy Arménů.
la storia della resistenza di un gruppo di armeni al genocidio turco. un vero e proprio poema in prosa, potente, epico. (peccato per la traduzione antiquata)
ספר איטי בשפה מיושנת, אני מסכם את הקריאה בסימון וי
spledido romanzo epico. racconta come, durante lo sterminio degli armeni ad opera dei turchi, 5000 armeni si ribellarono e resistettero eroicamente allo sterminio, salvatisi così dalla deportazione. Un racconto epico ed eroico che ti tiene incollato al libro fino alla fine. Unico neo la traduzione a dir poco arcaica (un italiano desueto già all'epoca della traduzione), assurda; ma che non ti fa perdere la bellezza del romanzo
An epic narrative recounting the attempt of a community of Armenians resiting their forced evacuation and ultimate destruction by the Ottoman authorities in the opening days of the first World War, by all accounts 40 Days of Musa Dagh was one of the earliest works to introduce to the Western world what would come to be known as the Armenian Genocide.
Musa Darh is a very good book, the writing is strong if a bit simple for my tastes, and the narrative complexity is impressive—Werfel often zigs when you think he's going to zag, and I found myself being surprised at numerous points in the book by some or other outcome.
Reading it while the Resolution was being debated made it all the more compelling and I hope you will take the time to get to know this story.
The story is based on an Armenian who has been living in Paris and married to a French woman before returning to his home in Anatolian Armenia around 1915.
His leadership develops as he reconnects to his countrymen and dares to defy the Turkish army’s removal of Armenians in the region.
I hope you will read it even though it stretches for more than 900 pages.
Amazing novel.
Musa Gabh is both physical and spiritual - usually in our lives it is either one or the other.
The hero is at times adored and at times scorned.
The hero is tempted and resists for the most part.
The hero is transformed but never transcends.
The hero leads but can't follow.
The hero looks forward but stops at the edge.
The role of suffering in a persons life and the ability to cope with that suffering is critical.
We live in a world where 'never again' happens way too frequently.
