https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1735330.The_Night_Manager
His political understanding is very deep, his dialogue is outstanding, and lightning portraits of new characters are a joy: one man has ‘a face to play cards against and lose’, while the main female lead, Jeds (a public-school abbreviation of Jemima), is characterised by her ‘jeweled brilliance and a kind of dressed nakedness’.I love this line, but it's also a pointer to the rather limited role of women in the book: they are too sexualised and too disposable for my liking.
And then, six months later, Richard Roper checks into the hotel with a large party, allowing Pine a close-up look at the man Sophie once described as "the worst man in the world."Pine decides that his life up to this point has largely been wasted, and, still blaming himself for Sophie's death, he offers his services to British Intelligence in an effort to bring Roper down.
Worse, some of these agencies have uses for a gun-runner like Richard Roper and don't want to see him brought down.The result is a book that is very compelling and at the same time very depressing.
I was planning to read "The Honorable Schoolboy (1977)" as my third le Carré novel. But as fate would have it, I stumbled upon a TV show trailer on YouTube.Tom Hiddleston + Hugh Laurie + le Carré ?! Sign me up!So before watching the show, I decided to read the novel.  ❝ Promise to build a chap a house, he won't believe you. Threaten to burn his place down, he'll do what you tell him. Fact of life.❞   The story introduces Jonathan Pine, an ex-soldier turned night manager for luxury hotels. It was
To make matters complicated, within the short period Pine and Sophie knew each other, they have fallen in love.So when Leonard Burr, a British intelligence officer asks Pine to go undercover to take down the man responsible, he agrees without hesitation.
Whenever I closed the book after reading the story and thought about it, I found it very fascinating.
Why the two stars then, you ask?It's because of the experience while I was reading the story.
“You have to bend the law from time to time, otherwise you don’t get anywhere.”“The Night Manager” is an overwritten book, even if it is a well-written one, and that kills the enjoyment of this text.
They say John le Carré writes “sophisticated spy thrillers”.
To the authors’ credit, the last 200 are much better.The problem with “The Night Manager” is that it tries to do too much.
The novel ends on a whimper that is nothing short of a cop out.There are no more novels of John le Carré in my future.
One of the more interesting aspects of Ian Fleming's James Bond series is the fact that, although Bond is ostensibly a spy, he really doesn't do very much spying: he doesn't invisibly infiltrate enemy lines, doesn't uncover valuable hidden information.
In other words, in LeCarre's novels, being a spy is much like being a police officer minus any of the redeeming aspects.Given this job description, one of the most interesting questions about a spy is: why on earth do they do it?
http://www.bbc.co.uk/programmes/p03g14d5Description: In the shadowy recesses of Whitehall and Washington an unholy alliance operates between the intelligence community and the secret arms trade.
In London, Burr and Steadman face mounting opposition from Whitehall.http://www.bbc.co.uk/programmes/b0756bgp6/6: Roper and his team return to Cairo for the deal, reuniting Pine with an old enemy.
http://www.bbc.co.uk/programmes/b0761pkzJonathan Pine	Tom HiddlestonRichard Roper	Hugh LaurieAngela Burr	Olivia ColmanLance Corkoran	Tom HollanderJed Marshall	Elizabeth DebickiRex Mayhew	Douglas HodgeJuan Apostol	Antonio de la TorreRob Singhal	Adeel AkhtarSophie Alekan	 Aure AtikaTabby	Hovik KeuchkerianCaroline Langbourne	Natasha LittleFrisky	Michael NardoneSandy Langbourne	Alistair PetrieSimon Ogilvey	Russell Tovey
"Every man has his personal devil waiting for him somewhere."-- John le Carré, The Night Manager "WAR is a racket.
Out of war a few people make huge fortunes."-- Major General Smedley Butler, 1935 After finishing le Carré's recent memoir The Pigeon Tunnel: Stories from My Life, I felt the need to climb a bit higher up on my le Carré mountain.
Here, as always, le Carré is focused more on the UK's involvement and private arms dealing in this book.
The plot--man infiltrates criminal organization to seek revenge on the man who heads said organization—should have made for a compelling novel, but it just...didn't.
Burr being the exception.It took way entirely too long to get Pine infiltrated into Roper's organization.
He wanted revenge on Roper for Sophie's murder, and that's why agreed to infiltrate his organization.
Had more time been spent with her and Pine in the earlier parts of the book (maybe by cutting out some of the 'criminal background setup' I mentioned earlier), then perhaps.
Όλα έχουν μια ιστορία που ο συγγραφέας θα αναπτύξει μέσα στο έργο και σε σύνδεση με αυτό.
Εξάλλου σε όλα τα έργα του ο Λε Καρέ δεν εξυμνει τον κόσμο των κατασκοπων αλλά αντιθέτως προβάλει την άσχημη, θλιβερή, απελπιστικά λιτή και αντιηρωικη αλήθεια του.
Και η ιδιοφυΐα του συγγραφέα έγκειται σε αυτό ακριβώς, οι πραγματικοί ήρωες του είναι πάντα άνθρωποι χωρίς δυνάμεις και πυγμη, χωρίς κανένα ηρωικο στοιχειο, απλά γραναζια σε κάθε ιστορία που όμως μέσα τους κυλάει ένα ποτάμι αλήθειας και θάρρους, γνώσης και ευστροφιας αλλά κυρίως μιας ηρεμης, σιωπηλης και ολίγον ανιαρης αξιοπρέπειας!
A conversation with a guest late one night opens his eyes to the dark underworld of the arms trade; this guest Sophie asks him to pass some documents to the Egyptian authorities, which he does, but he sends a copy onto a friend in MI6 too, even though she warned him that Roper has contact with the British security services.
He has set up a small unit to work against the arms dealers and he wants Pine to help with the sting against Roper.
Pine agrees to go undercover, and starts the process developing new names and details for his story, before heading to the Bahamas.

To run away from his demon and fail marriage Jonathan Pine became a night manager at the Hotel Meister Palace in Zurich.
However, Jonathan Pine demon followed him.
Jonathan Pine loves his country, so he agrees to become British Secret Agents to find the killer of a woman who died in the Hotel.
The readers of The Night Manager will follow Jonathan Pine to see what happens.
John le Carre does a great job in describing the setting of The Night Manager for his readers.The readers of The Night Manager will learn about being night manager of Hotel in Zurich.
Then I heard Le Carre speak and someone asked him about the movie project.
I do hope it gets resurrected.I believe this is Le Carre's best book since the George Smiley trilogy.
The popularity of Bourne would make you think so, but Le Carre's work rises to the level of the best literary fiction, whereas I don't think Ludlum's does.I will admit, however, that the torture is organic to the plot.
Makes delicious fantasy.I suspect that there was someone dear in Le Carre's life named Jemima because the name figures prominently both here and in The Perfect Spy.
THE NIGHT MANAGER is, hands down, the BEST spy novel I have ever read.
He does not go in pursuit of one, such opportunity presents itself, and when it does, he lunges for it.He has hated the man, a notorious and disgustingly wealthy criminal at the highest level, since the brutal beating death of this woman he loved.
He does not speak loudly, nor is he happy when love insists on the heart's allegiance; he is furious with himself when a woman captures his attention, and within his own mind, curses both she and himself repeatedly when his body and mind react to her beauty.Both Burr and all those committed to a lifetime of service within the intelligence community are dumbfounded by all they discover that Pine is capable of achieving.
From BBC 01 Player:Attempting to help a well-connected guest, hotel night manager Jonathan Pine is drawn into the world of arms dealer Richard Roper.1/6: Hotel night manager Jonathan Pine receives a plea for help from a well-connected guest.
His actions draw him into the world of Richard Roper, a businessman and arms dealer.2/6: On the Mediterranean island of Mallorca, Roper's life of luxury and calm is shattered.
Six months earlier, Burr continues her recruitment of Pine, sending him to Devon to build his cover story.3/6: While he continues to recuperate in Roper's villa, Pine starts to dig up secrets about the other members of the household.
I liked the pacing of this novel. It was classic Le Carre. I did have one issue with it though, some of the action scenes seemed a bit muddled. So I had to re-read them to find out how the characters got from point A to point B. There was some connecting of the dots involved.I haven’t seen the mini-series and I don’t know if I will. For this book had a unique story structure.
Le Carré goes Proust and crafts a terrifying confrontation by digging into the past and into his protagonist's psyche in order to make the moment larger than life.
Le Carré created in Jonathan Pine a protagonist complex and engaging like few others.When Pine first gets in contact with his handler Leonard Burr, The Night Manager goes into full spy novel and become labyrinthic and somewhat predictable.
My expectations swell out of proportions, but I was expecting more given how the novel started.Solid spy thriller overall.
It felt weird to read a sophisticated spy thriller.
Driven by retribution and revenge, we get a man (as opposed to an automaton) with heart and soul as well as the obligatory skills of a spy.In THE NIGHT MANAGER, le Carre's prose is poetry, as exemplified when Jonathan, caught in an act of espionage, makes love to the anti-heroine (whom he covets, but thus far has never touched) by telling her: "I'm obsessed by you.
Yet every time I think of something funny, I need you to laugh at it, and when I'm low it's you I need to cheer me up.
I don't know who you are, if you're anyone at all.
This took me a while to get into. Let's hope the TV series keeps me awake longer than the book did!
In the night manager the desire to rid this good earth of the world`s worst man, an English arms dealer, is not the start of a paint by the numbers = come uppance and happy ending on page 353, but a gallant foolish charge into a world where the worst enemies are often your colleagues sitting opposite you.
If me and my colleagues were ever charged with bringing an international arms dealer to justice we would a) argue about governance b) argue about who attended which ever meeting was set up and c) fight about who had messed up where.
Another fine le Carre story.
LC always seems to have his finger on the pulse of international news, even now as it was twenty years ago.Our hero is gently wooed into service, trained for technique, scenarios to develop deep cover, the set up, chumming with the villain, fem fatale, a proverbial storm on the high seas, a horse in green fields.
Isn't it refreshing how Mr. le Carre refrains from using guns to the extent that film, television and other authors do?
It is LC singing his song, painting his picture, walking us through green canopy tunnels.
Fortunately my memory isn't as it was, I have a fresh story every time.

The arrival of the arms deal, Richard Roper, one snowy night sparks memories of an earlier incident in Egypt which ended with a bloody murder, and inspires Pine to offer his services to British Intelligence.
Every sentence shines, every character burns, every twist and turn, whether it's Pine's sweaty, queasy infiltration of Roper's life and affairs, or the efforts of members of Enforcement in London and Miami to protect themselves and Jonathan from political and economic skullduggery and a brutal war between intelligence agencies, is described with a cool, tight grace and emotional restraint as the principals become gradually aware of the extent of their self-deception in thinking they could wrestle even the smallest of victories against corruption on such a scale.
When he finds himself in an old family hotel in Switzerland he finds himself in the company of an international arms dealer who is responsible for his customers death in Egypt and he wants to take this character out of circulation and once again approaches the British secret service.And so starts a sequence that will deliver him into the path of this Richard Onslow Roper and gives him a credible history to find a place among his entourage and to destroy the man and his business from the inside.
Мало того, що читати мені її заважала ціла гора об'єктивних причин, так я ще й сама суб'єктивно мучилась над цією розповіддю.Мабуть, для початку варто зазначити, що переглянула серіал я відразу після його виходу.
І він мені сподобався, звісно завдяки неймовірному шарму акторів.
"О, мені, мабуть, ще захочеться потім щось почитати з нього".
В мотиви його дій я не вірила до останнього.І не варто було видавати книгу у кінообкладинці, бо до змальованих героїв лише Г'ю Лорі має схожість.
3.5/5 stars*I will elaborate on why once I get the chance*
Typical LeCarreI only gave this 3 stars as it didn't grab me like his other books have. I think it's one I'm going to have to read again but I'll probably not get the time
It took just one episode of the BBC/AMC mini-series adaptation to drive me back to the original le Carré, which I thought I'd read, but maybe I didn't.
By and large, the updatings work well for the adaptation -- a cell phone plays a key role.
A gender change for a the central spymaster works.
What fascinated me the most is how the novel, written in close third-person, allows le Carré to verbally reveal the psychology of our protagonist, Jonathan Pine; whereas the mini-series is forced to reveal much of the same perspective via the action and the acting.
The research really shows here - so much so that the story seems real.
And it's not just the layering of actual details that produces this verisimilitude; it's the way badness, fear and weakness conspire to corrupt.
Throughout most of le Carre's novels, and especially this one, an unseen evil hovers above the story and eventually intervenes to scuttle the most intricately-planned operations.
Le Carre's great skill is to reveal the blandness of this evil, making it easier for us to recognise in our own lives.Things are wrapped up a little too quickly and tidily in the end, but the suspense throughout is top-notch.
It was a good story but definitely not a gripping thriller. I thought it was hard to follow the plot and it was a bit boring overall.
