https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/430833.McNally_s_Gamble
I liked the charming main character, but it was funny how this 1997 novel had certain features which dated it terribly--like how everyone marvelled about a hotel that had caller I.D. that helped catch some kidnappers--Wow!
তেমন সুবিধার না। মযাকনযালি সিরিজের পরথম ৬ বই যেমন জমেছিল, এ বই তার ধারের কাছেও আসে নাই। সযানডারসের চির পরিচিত হিউমার, উইট, কমিক রিলিফ আছে, কিনতু রহসয জমে নাই। কোন টুইসট নাই। গলপের পরথমেই ভিলেনকে চিহনিত করে ফেলেছে, আর গোটা গলপে ধীরে সুসথে, আরামসে একটু একটু করে ভিলেনদের ধর পাকড় করেছে। এটাই এখন পরযনত আমার পড়া মযাকনযালি সিরিজের সবচেয়ে বিরকতিকর বই।
তেমন সুবিধার না। ম্যাকন্যালি সিরিজের প্রথম ৬ বই যেমন জমেছিল, এ বই তার ধারের কাছেও আসে নাই। স্যান্ডার্সের চির পরিচিত হিউমার, উইট, কমিক রিলিফ আছে, কিন্তু রহস্য জমে নাই। কোন টুইস্ট নাই। গল্পের প্রথমেই ভিলেনকে চিহ্নিত করে ফেলেছে, আর গোটা গল্পে ধীরে সুস্থে, আরামসে একটু একটু করে ভিলেনদের ধর পাকড় করেছে। এটাই এখন পর্যন্ত আমার পড়া ম্যাকন্যালি সিরিজের সবচেয়ে বিরক্তিকর বই।
Another very fun Archy McNally tale.
Unfortunately the last "real" McNally book.
Since I've already read one of the others, I know they are a huge step down and aren't worthy of reading.
I may have enjoyed this one more because I knew it was the last and it was very refreshing to return to the characters as Sanders wrote them.
I can't help but wonder if he approved the books written by the other guy who distorted and twisted his characters unabashedly.
These books did get a little formulaic, so I guess I see why Sanders gave them up.
Of course Mr. Sanders' readers know that the father is the boss of a legal firm in Palm Beach, Florida, where Archy is the only employee of the Discreet Inquiries Department.
One of the firm's wealthy clients, Mrs. Westmore, is planning to buy a Fabergé egg from a seller in Paris on recommendation of an investment advisor.
The plot becomes more serious when one of the characters marginally involved in the planned transaction is murdered.Of course, this being an Archy McNally novel we cannot get away without some tactfully and delightfully told sex passages.
This was my first exposure to the Archy McNally series by Lawrence Sanders, and it certainly won't be the last.
The 'hero', Archy McNally is an investigator in his father's law firm, and here he gets involved with what looks to be a major swindle, centered around one of the Faberge eggs.
Of course the story becomes much more involved as it develops, and Archy seems to bumble his way through to the conclusion.
I am looking forward to more in this series, especially after I have plowed through a more serious book.
Archy McNally is enlisted by his father to enter into a discreet investigation regarding a new financial advisor for one of McNally & son’s wealthy client.
Normally this type of investigation would be made on the behest of a family member; so, this becomes a doubly discreet investigation, that is until the Westmore children come to McNally & Son hoping to stop what they fear is a one half million dollar scam, especially when the Westmore son could use those funds to continue his research.
This is one of those books that I call a relief book; you don’t really have to think about what you’re reading (what a relief!)
All of the books in this series are quick easy reads that are enjoyable.
Another wonderfully descriptive crime caper involving the rich and infamous of Palm beach brought to a hugely successful conclusion by A McNally Esq.
I love Archy. The perfect diversion when you need an entertaining read. I hope the followup author does as well as LS
The entire McNally canon just oozes with all the things that makes a good crime pot-boiler - dastardly and clever crime, beautiful women, and a wonderfully authentic urban setting.
What makes the McNally books special though, is the fact that they are narrated in the first person through perhaps the most lovable (male) idiosyncratic detective of all time, the one and only Archy McNally.
Unlike other great first person detective stories, it's not told through the amanuensis (Captain Hastings and Archie Goodwin being the prime examples of that particular style) but through the detective, and it's part of what makes the entire McNally canon such a uniquely terrific read, along with his truly wicked sense of humour.
Enjoyable little mystery. Reminded me of a Janet Evonovich mystery except that when I list the genre on her books I put fiction, mystery, crime and romance. On Sanders books I list fiction, mystery, crime and humor. Since I have read all the Connelly, Sandford, Grisham, Baldacci, DeMille, Child, Flynn, McDonald and others I have been looking for a new source of mystery entertainment and so far Sanders or Agatha Christie will be on the list. Cute, clever little novel.
Sanders’ McNally series was favorite reading years ago – even the continuations by author Vincent Pardo were fun entries in this set about a foppish private eye to mostly a wealthy clientele.
Naturally, all works out well in the end.We don’t know how we missed this book first time around having completed the entire 16-book set, but it was great fun revisiting McNally’s light adventures, despite the sometimes tiring descriptions of his lunch choices, or his attire of the day.
A rich widow has chosen a charming financial advisor, who tells her she can make a huge profit by buying and selling a Faberge egg. The set-up stinks to McNally & Son, but even more to the widow's daughter and son, who want the money for their own use. Archy NcNally scrabbles around looking for a chink in the façade of the smooth financial advisor, while the loose-cannon son and daughter set out to block the transaction in their own way.
#7 in the Archie McNally series. Final effort by author Sanders; the series was continued after his death by Vincent Lardo.Archie McNally mystery - Playboy sleuth Archy McNally, finds yet more greed, envy, and murder among Florida's rich and famous-and all because of the Faberge Imperial egg that, much to her children's consternation, the widowed Edythe Westmore would like to buy.
This book, novel, started painfully slowly at first, unlike the only other book I've read from Sanders, Caper (not to be confused with McNally's Caper), I found this book to be a joyful achievement in my collection. I found a flawed hero better then a true hero. How Archy, our hero is flawed? He loves coitus, and not just with hours current fling. It makes him feel like a true human.
You know that RELEASE of laughing outloud when you read? Regardless of where you are when you read this long joke, you are in Miami Florida, sweating, imagining eveyone around you is in a conspiracy. Pull out the white linen suit, SKYY90 martini, and a comfy couch: by the end you will want to become a member of this silver-spooned private investigation team.
"I calmed down by spending the remainder of the morning addressing and signing a stack of Christmas cards I should have mailed a week ago. There were more than fifty and I wondered how barbarous it would be to run them through the company's meter rather than purchase stamps. I finally decided a metered Xmas card was simply too gauche" (295).
I'm assuming this is supposed to be satirical in nature, otherwise it would just be bad rather than laughingly bad. It's cheesy and seriously lacking in depth but that's the whole point from what I can tell. It's a fun, fluff of a murder mystery. The quirky McNally is amusing but I just don't think it's a series I'll be reading more of.
This is one of the last in the Archy McNally series written by the late Lawrence Sanders. Despite its weaknesses, it's hard to dislike this as a tour de force of eccentric detective/fop/bygone era humor. It has a strange tone, the plot is dull, and the supporting characters are not that distinct or memorable
1st Archy McNally novel I've read. My wife says they're all a pretty light but fun read, to which I have to agree. I'm not sure I really like the Archy McNally character, but the mystery itself was intriguing and there were enough fun descriptions of gourmet food sprinkled through the book to keep me always wanting to go nosh on something.
McNally is a bad boy, but I can't help but like him anyway. Connie, his girlfriend, seems too smart to put up with his nonsense. But then, I'm putting up with him too, and expect to read another McNally book when escapism becons. Probably soon.
The Last of the Sanders Mcnally's. I really love the writing style. I hope the remaining books are similarly written. In this one Archy has to try to prevent a rich widow from being swindled. And the usual cast join in the fun. Very enjoyable!
A delightful summer read. I considered myself reasonably knowledgeable with a decent vocabulary but I needed a dictionary close by for the many uncommon words the author used. Not only was the story entertaining, it expanded my vocabulary.
Another good detective comedy from Lawrence Sanders. I am looking forward to reading/rereading the entire series this year as part of my 100 book challenge. Archy is entertaining and funny. A nice break from my other books.
Archie is on the trail of a pair of con artists who are about to bilk a rich widow out of half a mil by convincing her to buy a Faberge egg. The McNally stories were my best detective discovery of 2008. I'm looking forward to more of Archie in 2009.
Cute - I like the character "Archy McNally". He is smart (uses lots of great words), cares a bit too much about what he wears and eats, has flaws like the rest of us, lives with his rich parents and yet doesn't come off as snobby.I think I will partake in another one of McNally's dramas.
I don't think that these kind of books are for me. I got tired of the atmosphere quite quickly. Although Archy is a very quirky and amusing character, I can't take the upper class scene. I just wanted to roll my eyes. First world problems at it's finest.
Archie McNally never disappoint me! What a dandy! It took me all of 2 days to read this book. Great plot, well written, verbose to the level we are accustomed to with Sanders. Recommended read!
Once you get to know Archy and his family you just want to keep seeing the "tangeled web" that is always constantlly being woven.
Yes there are a few giggles as Archy solves the mystery of the Faberge egg scam. He is a man living in Palm Beach and he is single :)
