https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/11215835-rogers-isms-the-cowboy-philosopher-on-the-peace-conference
Politics, Nations, Wilson & Congress...This is a single transcript of the act Rogers performed during the period immigrants following WWI .
Wilson was in Europe, trying to get an Armistice signed AND trying to set up the "League of Nations".
He was having the same luck with Republicans in Congress as Obama...It is amazing: few things have really changed since 1918 in politics, between nations, or Congress.
The names have changed, but the arguments remain the same!
This is a fairly short act, Rogers must have been doing a lot of rope twirling.
This was Rogers's first book, and it reads like notes for a stand-up routine: a list of one-liners, some better than others, from which he might have used about half and made up the rest on the spot.
His "Letters of a Self-Made Diplomat to His President" from a few years later shows much better how well he could handle this kind of satirical journalism.Rough as it is in style, it is well worth the reader's time to get Rogers's reactions to the Paris Peace Conference.
I found this book going through some of my grandfather's stuff. A collection of witticisms by Mr. Rogers. Some are pretty funny, others are really dated. One I enjoyed was "Instead of weddings being jolly parties, From now on they are going to be as they should, very solemn affairs,"Pretty good humor book for being written in 1919.
This is a really fun little book, IF you know the history enough to understand what he was joking about. It also helps if you've seen footage of Will Rogers doing one of his routines so you know what his timing and delivery sounded like, because the book is mostly a compilation of jokes he was using during this particular period.
I love how whitty he is, but this edition is somewhat garbled, making it annoying to read. The eBook needs better formatting.
There are things that I love that Will Rogers did. This is not one of them. This is a book of his aphorisms about the peace talks.
Clever little book about America at the meetings for the Treaty of Versailles by this great Native American humourist!
I had high hopes for this book and most of them were dashed.
