https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7155145-linchpin
Not quite finished with this yet but it seems as if it could be condensed to a one page blog posting.
In fact I wonder if he just expanded a blog into this.
It is so incredibly repetitive without inventing any major insights.
"Be indispensable and be artistic".
Give me a break, that isn't even an insight, it's a fact if life.
Try to be useful at your job and contribute more than just the minimum.
Now that I finished, I reaffirm the wasted hours I spent reading this book.
I cannot believe so many people rated this book so high.
In his latest book, Godin writes about the qualities and characteristics of linchpins - those people in every organization who are the go-to people, who are the ones who seem essential and indispensable, who don't know the meaning of the phrase "not my job.""There used to be two teams in every workplace: management and labor.
They love their work, pour their best selves into it, and turn each day into a kind of art." (from the book jacket) Godin's view is that as managers, we have the ability (and some might say the responsibility) to develop linchpins among our employees.
Seth Godin draws on his experiences in business and life to convince the reader to be a linchpin rather than a cog in the machine of work.He says it better than I did: "This book is about love and art and change and fear.
It's just tricky because, as Godin noted, "there is no roadmap."Recommended for people who may be bored with where they are and can see a glimmer of where they want to be- but aren't sure how to get there.
Also recommended for those who work in the newspaper business because we clearly need more linchpins.
Like many books in this genre, this book suffers from being too long. The core content, however, is fantastic. Seth's thoughts on "shipping", beating the resistance, and giving gifts were useful and inspiring. I'd recommend the audio book to anyone--makes it easier to skip past the repetitive chunks once you've got Seth's point.
And an artist takes it personally.”I picked up this book because I recently subscribed to Seth Godin's blog and have found his advice on business and organizational culture insightful and useful.
He published this book a few years ago about the new skills that professionals need to polish in order to stay relevant and indispensable in the informational age.
The book feels like it was recently published, the information is still accurate and pertinent to most of the workplace changes occurring these days.
Although some sections were very repetitive, I still recommend this book if you're interested in business and organizational topics.
I also highly recommend subscribing to his blog.
Let me try and summarize 242 pages of this book.Linchpin is the person who is indispensable in the organisation, who doesn't do what he/she is being told, brings emotional labour to his job, is an artist.Thing is our schools, workplaces encourage people who keeps head down, fits in and does what he/she is being told.
You have to find your art, that makes you linchpin.You need to recognise your resistance and overcome it.
For example, a painting artists create is a gift.
You can bring emotional labour to any mundane job, connect to people, co-workers, customers and it will show.
The race to the most useful, caring, innovative - well, you're competing with the cheapest, they're going to lose.Enter the linchpin - someone who adds value, who cares about doing a good job, who *thinks* about how to get things done more quickly and to a higher standard, a game changer.
The paradox is the lizard brain likes comfort, but is scared of success.Read this book if you want to escape the whole post-industrial "my job went to India" fear and find your way to a future where you enjoy what you do.Just read it, it's the 21st century equivalent to How to Win Friends & Influence People, (which you should read as well).
Yes. Here is the clincher, and it is the best part of the book too.Seth’s take on: The Communist Manifesto, by Karl Marx and Friedrich EngelsThis book isn’t about what you think it’s about.
The key argument here is that small experiments in communism don’t work, because they are corrupted by the temptation to defect and engage in trade with neighbors that exploit their workers (so you can benefit).
At one profound level they are right: as long as the workers don’t own the means of production, the exchange will be inherently unfair.
Linchpin is occasionally over the top, repetitious, and disjointed, but the core message is sound, and it's passionately delivered.
The basic premise of the book is that the world has changed, and that working harder, faster, and cheaper than your colleagues or competitors is no longer a guarantee of success.
We live in an increasingly educated and connected world, and being "good enough" is no longer the safe option; there are plenty of people with your skills, many of whom are prepared to work for less.
We must work to create, just like artists, personal gifts that change people.
A few years ago, I read another of Godin's books, Meatball Sundae, which explained that you cannot use "sundaes" (web 2.0 marketing) to sell "meatballs" (old-school, average products for average people).
Which was a good argument, I suppose, except that Godin never really explained how you can transform your "meatballs" into "ice cream." So when I picked up his new book, Linchpin, I wasn't sure what to expect.
Unlike Godin's other books, Linchpin isn't about marketing, not really.
It's about you, about asking yourself, "Are you indispensable?" Godin argues that every one of us has been a genius, at least one.
Are they irreplaceable?The message of the book is to become an artist, great in what s/he does while always going far beyond what s/he's expected to do.
Putting emotional labor and creativity in what s/he does for the sheer joy of being an artist and holding no expectation.
Artists are people with a genius for finding a new answer, a new connection, or a new way of getting things done.2.
Linchpin feels the fear, acknowledges it, then proceed.6.
It won't change the recipient of your work, and it's easy to emulate (which makes you easy to replace.)7.
It's not an accident that successful people read more books.12.
- The passionate plea to be a creator than a follower - The call to resist acting out of the ‘lizard brain’ (amygdala) impulse which is afraid to risk & present non-conformity - To regard, yet disregard the damaging educational system which we are made to follow or go through - To follow the concept of participating in the gift economy – giving value for free without expecting anything in return – a benefit which eventually comes back many times over in the form of deeper and lasting relationships.
Linchpin is Seth Godin's challenge to do your life's best work.
The book's message is appropriately urgent, because these are urgent times, where molasses-bound mediocrity suffuses the workplace, where convention pulls the air out of the room.What Godin insists is that everyone is an artist, a person whose unique skills, insights and enthusiasms combine so that they can produce art in their work.
And that though the offering of art is a gift, it's entrepreneurial too: summoning your best, and giving it has cascade effects, it's generative.The book extensively addresses the voice that says "No!" in all of us: the lizard brain.
Making a difference, offering your art through your work and actions = world-changing; indispensable.
but I do have to remind myself -- again -- that while Godin is a master of the blog format he just isn't up to the full-length book format.
If you want to be the person your organization can't do without, there probably isn't a road map showing you how to get there.
And it is up to the managers of these people to give them some guidance but mainly just get out of their way and let them break new ground.Aside from Godin's choppy writing style, the only quibble I have with this book is that it grazes dangerously close to the Bright-Sided territory that Barbara Ehrenreich warns about.
Advices he gives do make sense: to give small gifts to your clients and customers in order to stand out, go extra mile not expecting anything in return and you will be successful.But, he has a grudge against evil capitalism.
- Capitalism turns people into machines (Isn't any -ism doing that?
Especially, Communism) - Capitalism puts you in schools which brainwash you (Ahm, schools are mostly states school and isn't everybody fighting to get to a private school, that evil capitalist private school?).- Only capitalists do something and expect to get something back, nice people give gifts.
This is a preachy, slightly condescending, some what annoying, repetitive book about how to thrive in a new era of work and a new economy.
It is full of ideas that are perfect for creative professionals.
It outlines our past economy, school system, work mindsets and ideas about work.
Bit by bit, it builds up a case for how to thrive doing what you love, giving to others and doing 'art'.
They have been tied together in a way to make an inspirational case to be creative, generous and to not let an excuse get in the way.Just, be for-warned.
I only gave this book one star. I was under the impression that Seth Godin's writing was similar to that of Malcolm Gladwell...Blink (which I thouroughly enjoy). This book argues that we should all seek to create skills such that we are the linchpin of our organization or company and thus irreplacable. I didn't buy into his arguments...he spoke little of higher education and/or specialization. I generally find no matter how special you are you are always replacable. I suggest your time is better spent becoming irreplacable to your spouse, family, and friends...and or just become your own boss.
That is what see lacking: people creating extra time at work (and even away from work) doing their 'homework' so they can be better workers in the future.So here is my "Linchpin book" in an efficient few sentences:Do "your job".
And if your job is not right for you (and you probably know whether it is or not), "God bless" and please look for the right time and opportunity to arise to get you to a 'better job'.
I needed to affirm to myself that this book was written in 2010, because writing about the "post-factory" business world was outdated ten years ago.
Великий и ужасный Гудвин (зачёркнуто) Годин не столько даёт информацию к размышлению, сколько пытается "продать" читателям свои идеи, и делает это довольно навязчиво.
Если творчество создаёт тот самый уникальный эмоциональный опыт, и Художник становится популярен у обычных потребителей, то он становится востребован и корпорациями, которые хотят заполучить такого Незаменимого, и готовы платить за это большие деньги.
Дарю много и всё время думаю, как дарить больше, вот только отдача удивляет :) .
Если вы хотите "соскочить" с корпоративного конвейера и пуститься в свободное творческое плавание (бизнеса, фриланса, художественного творчества и т.п.), то книга очень вдохновляет, и наверняка придаст вам сил и уверенности.
Why does Godin spend so much time trying to convince the reader that she has to choose between either being a linchpin (a creative genius, aka, the goal) or a cog (literally and symbolically, aka the worst)?
Godin gets into this by the middle of the book with his chapter on "Resistance." I found his description of how distractions and negative thinking infiltrate our day and prevent us from meaningful work surprisingly helpful, if only because I can use this to recognize these behaviors in myself -- name it & stop it -- before I lose momentum.
At the conclusion of the opening sequence, as Indy's escape plane flies away, my mom leaned over and said, "Oh my God. Is the whole movie going to be like this?" I had a very similar feeling when - on page 20 of his new book Linchpin: Are You Indispensable?
In just over 200+ pages, Seth Godin asks, explores, and answers many of the ideas questions that have been on my mind lately, especially as it relates to work and the possibility of work as art.
256)A pop-psych, business book that looks at the role of the worker.
Godin makes the argument that the modern industrial workforce has reached its peak and people are no longer valuable by just their ability to just do their jobs or fill a spot on the team.
He also makes a great case for people in all walks of life to step up and believe in what they do or find something that creates that passion.
Godin gets a little repetitive, but it can be excused due to Godin’s desire to fire up those who are listening to the message.
Linchpin is one of those career self-help books that are popular airplane reads.
For those of you without an hour, you can literally (no, not figuratively) get the complete message of the book by reading the table of contents.
So, consider my experience as an existence proof that reading the book isn't a complete waste of time for everyone.As a side note, the blurbs on the back cover are rather generic, but one of them may be my favorite of all time.
Rich though rambling guide on how to become indispensable at workWarning: If you absorb all business blogger Seth Godin’s advice, you could end up overworked and underappreciated.
Or, he or she can choose a path that promotes uniqueness and ingenuity by becoming a “linchpin,” an invaluable, indispensable employee, the center of all a company’s activities.
Although Godin writes in his signature rambling style, which some readers may find distracting, getAbstract applauds this unique, absorbing business book, whose reach extends far beyond the conference room.
Proceed with caution – even being a linchpin has its hazards.To learn more about this book, check out the following web page: http://www.getabstract.com/summary/13...
I have to read these type of books for work twice a year for a mandated "Team Book Club".
As a caveat before getting into this, I hate things that are mandated.
Also I read a lot and have a huge list of things I want to read, so having to take time out to read something like this, can feel like a bit of a waste of time.
So now, I like Seth's blog and check it from time to time when I have the time.
This one should have stayed as a blog post.
So I'm saying this might not have been meant for me.Read it if the description sounds like something for you.
It's amazing what Seth can do. The book gives you deep understanding of yourself, the world you live in and success as well. It is a motivational, philosophical and a business book at the same time. Somehow it is almost great in being all of those as well. A must read.Rarely something just touches you that well. You will most definitely come across a chapter where Seth is describing you in person. No doubt.
Answer: Yes.That was easy.
بهترین کتابی که از ست گادین خوندم؛ مخصوصا میانه کتاب که درباره اینکه چه چیزی باعث میشه نتونیم اون هنر و تاثیری که میخوایم رو به نمایش بذاریم.
It's why, though these books are easy to read, I never get particularly excited about reading them.That said, in Linchpin author Seth Godin did make some great suggestions that have encouraged me to shift the way I think about my career.
I got an email this week from a former student who was amazed and thought I would need to know that he got his first college essay assignment and that the teacher said they didn't want a standard five-paragraph essay.
The form provides a base, but the art comes from the ideas and insights that the form helps you to make clear.I wonder if I'm teaching my students that enough.
Given the new learning model that we have been using for the past year, I couldn’t help but think as I read this book that much of what we are striving to do at the college is to create linchpins rather than machines that can easily be replaced.
In addition he concludes the book by sharing with us the seven characteristics of a linchpin and explaining with enough detail although not in extreme detail how you can become a linchpin and exercise what he calls art and help to change the world.If nothing else this book will give you some food for thought and just may change how you think about traditional jobs and education forever.Read more book reviews on my  blog.
