https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/257990.G_is_for_Gumshoe
Book Review  3.5 of 5 stars for G is for Gumshoe, the 7th installment in the "Kinsey Millhone" mystery series, written in 1990 by Sue Grafton. Another good book in the series, this one offers an opportunity for Kinsey to partner with someone else -- this time to save her own life. Kinsey's just turned 33 and has a few big things going on in her life, one of which is a criminal king pin after her for some recent actions. When Kinsey realizes her life is in danger, she hires a bodyguard, but he
Another good book in the series, this one offers an opportunity for Kinsey to partner with someone else -- this time to save her own life.
When Kinsey realizes her life is in danger, she hires a bodyguard, but he is way more intense than she'd hoped for; however, it's a good thing he's there, as Kinsey finds herself coming close to death a few times more than usual in this book.
I still love the supporting characters, and this one introduces a few good personalities that I hope come around every so often.

For the first time in this series, I voiced the word 'epic' in my mind when I finished reading this book.My memories however, are starting to fade.
I don't know how much of that is because of my mind, and how much is due to the book itself.But it was engrossing to read about the trail that Kinsey Millhone has to undertake and the adventurous dangers she faces.Though it's a five star read, I awarded this score knowing that it doesn't break into my top 20 books.
But it made for an interesting read, being icky sometimes, but that was all part of the perusal.
I have no complaints.
In the meantime, Kinsey is informed she could be the target of an assassin she helped put away, requiring her to have a bodyguard, one she becomes quite close to before all is said and done.
This chapter in the series seemed super short for some reason.
There was a lot of action, some romance, but the case is a little murky and I had to read the last few chapters twice in order to make sure I had understood it right.
The assassin on Kinsey’s trail proved to be the more exciting part of the book and the irony of it made this story as hardboiled as any 1940’s detective story.
4.5 stars. Very exciting one as Kinsey has a price on her head. This is a story with new beginnings of more than one kind.
And now, here is a quick reviewBefore this book gets overdue.(I'm a poet and I DO know it, thank you very much.)Five fun things this particular Kinsey Millhone mystery has to offer:1.
Lots of junk food, for those of us who've reached an age where we need to enjoy that kind of thing vicariously.Also, I never know whodunnit in Grafton's mysteries until she tells me in so many words; but that may be less a compliment to her writing skills and more a sad reflection on my readerly ones.Off to the library now.
G is for Giant Decrease in I.Q.Kinsey, what happened? I used to be able to count on you for being one of the few sleuths who didn't make me pull my hair out in exasperation. Reading this book, however, practically gave me a bald spot as you careened from one blatantly bad decision to the next.I still care about you and plan to read future installments, but I think we need to take a break for a while. It's not me - it's you.
G IS FOR GUMSHOE is the seventh book in the Kinsey Millhone series and it’s possibly my favorite one yet. I’ve enjoyed all the books so far in this series but there’s something about this book that just gripped me from the very first page.First of all, Kinsey continues to elate me. I love that she isn’t too fussed about a lot of things. She’s a straight-laced girl who doesn’t moan over dumb things. Her practicality makes her very endearing to me and it makes for great pacing in the book because
G IS FOR GUMSHOE is the seventh book in the Kinsey Millhone series and it’s possibly my favorite one yet.
I’ve enjoyed all the books so far in this series but there’s something about this book that just gripped me from the very first page.First of all, Kinsey continues to elate me.
Kinsey isn’t quite sure but things start to get even more deadly for her when she learns that someone put a hit on her.
Not only was I terrified for Kinsey, but there’s a character named Dietz that I really liked in this book.
I really loved this one.
Kinsey trying to investigate a missing woman realizes she can't investigate and watch her back at the same time.
She hires Robert Dietz, a private investigator she hired on an earlier case in A is for Alibi.
Kinsey is dealing with her friend Verna trying to set her up with a doctor, telling herself she's not really into Dietz, and coming to terms with her own mortality.
She finally goes and falls in love again after her wariness about getting too heavily involved with anyone.
Minus a star because I could really do without the peep into Kinsey's sexual adventures. I think the books stand on their own without this facet, and I love to recommend them to friends, but I don't like to recommend books where the characters are cavorting between the sheets. Call me a prude, but I'd rather just read a good, old-fashioned mystery story. Isn't there enough gratuitous sex on TV? Romping aside, Grafton has once again given us a great whodunnit, with her usual crack-me-up, dry witticisms and the quirky, believable characters I've come to expect.
I first read this book in the 90s, but chose to re-read it because it was one of my favorites in the alphabet series. I know that Grafton was greatly influenced by Ross MacDonald, and this book is clearly an homage to MacDonald in many ways. I love both authors, and I found the dual mysteries in this one to be equally compelling and suspenseful throughout. Robert Dietz is one of Grafton's best characters, and I was glad to have the chance to revisit this novel.
I have wanted to read this series for ages . . . and how that I've started I can't stop! I intended to read a couple of them and then break away for other books and then return to the Alphabet mysteries later on. Nothing doing . . . I am reading them nonstop (and mixing other books simultaneously ). All the while reading the next Letter of the alphabet and never taking a break from Sue Grafton's fun. :)
At the beginning of May, PI Kinsey Millhone is hired by a woman named Irene to track down her mother.
The two usually talk one a month, but it’s been several months since they last talked.
Will it complicate her search for the missing woman?I was hoping with two parallel plots that they would build off each other.
In fact, the book begins to drag in the middle, although it certainly picks up near the end.
We get to know another supporting character pretty well here, which in turn lets us get to know Kinsey better, which I love.Read my full review at Carstairs Considers.
G is for Gumshoe, not a bad book. Starting of with a hit on Kinsey's life to actually finding out who was the hit man, hope we see more with the body guard.
⭐⭐⭐/5. My least favorite so far, because I felt the story built up this huge THING that ended up being resolved in a handful of sentences. Premise was good, but I was ultimately disappointed by the ending. I wanted to know a lot more than the answers that were given.
⭐️⭐️⭐️/5. My least favorite so far, because I felt the story built up this huge THING that ended up being resolved in a handful of sentences. Premise was good, but I was ultimately disappointed by the ending. I wanted to know a lot more than the answers that were given.
Gumshoe is an old slang term for detective or investigator. I had to google that word. Enjoyed this murder investigation, the characters and the boyfriend. Fast paced, one of the best in the series so far. Will the boyfriend return? Looking forward to the next book.
Just finished "G is for Gumshoe" today. I happen to like Kinsey Milhoune and don't mind that she is stuck in the '80s. Though I enjoyed the story, this isn't the best Kinsey mystery, and I never did figure out what a "Gumshoe" was.
Kinsey Millhone turns 33, moves back into her apartment, takes a new case, and ends up on a hit list.
While working on her case, Kinsey realizes she's can't handle being the target of a hired hit man, so she gets a bodyguard.
The 7th Kinsey Millhone book in Grafton's alphabet series.
Of course, the simple case she took was not so simple, as to be expected with these books.
The best part was when Kinsey hired a bodyguard, Robert Dietz, after someone put a hit out on her.
I hope Dietz appears in other books, because I enjoyed the dynamic between them.
I also liked the incorporation of two separate storylines with moments of merging.
Sue Grafton did an excellent job of incorporating the hitman story into the Agnes Grey story without either of them overwhelming the whole book.
I think I’m half in love with Henry Pitts just as Kinsey is.
I truly think he is someone she can completely be herself with and someone who loves her no matter what.
I tried to like the Dietz character but he seemed to have a very dark side we only got a glimpse of and I didn’t buy him as a romantic interest for Kinsey at all.
It's simply a small setback that this 7th book is not up the Grafton's usual standard.Good female P.I. stories are hard to find and I have the most fond memories of the first Kilsey Milhone books I've read years ago.
Admittedly, there's only a few female private investigators I enjoyed more; that is Linda Barnes series featuring Carlotta Carlyle, a 6'1" redheaded detective from Boston.
Now those where thrilling stories.Here in G for Gumshoe, the two subplots felt rather weak; one is Kinsey avoiding a mean hit-man, travelling with his 5-year-old kidnapped boy.
This ended up one of my favorites in the alphabet series thus far.
I couldn't be satisfied until I made it to the end.
I loved the addition of Dietz!
I hoped he and Kinsey would get together.
I had huge hopes for seeing him in future adventures.
I liked Kinsey even more when they were together.
Kinsey always seems so strange...so un-girlish.
This was the first time I felt Kinsey gave in and admitted to her fears and her longiness to be with a man in a real relationship.
Love her even more now!
Hope she stands strong though, too!
The books are fun, well crafted and each time I read one, I feel like I'm settling in to hear more from a dear friend who I've grown to love.
The stakes are high in these books but never so high that you ever really feel afraid for Kinsey's life.
These books have become like comfort food for me.
While the central mystery in this one felt a bit more muddled and hard to follow, it was just good to spend a few hours in the company of Kinsey Millhone.
I really do enjoy spending time with her.
I’ve read A-Y already, but I decided to start over this year and enjoy them again. This is my favorite one so far!
I’ve read A-Y already, but I️ decided to start over this year and enjoy them again. This is my favorite one so far!

It never was clear why G is for Gumshoe. Maybe I have missed some sort of literary verbiage or crime speak? I found this book to be rather annoying. The story line was strange and Grafton tried to merge two rather large plots into one story. I'm not sure if it worked or not. With the success of her books overall people would say it worked but Grafton has a cult following of sorts, which is the mystery I'm still trying to figure out.
Probably the best twist of the series so far. I loved the literary references in this, but it isn't mindblowingly amazing.I'd also like to know why the main interaction between Kinsey and a POC is a maid described as "an obese black woman" and why this is the second time so far in the series this has happened.
A step up - this one got a little better than earlier books.
If I ever had a test on what I remember from this series, I'd fail. But if I'm stuck in a cabin somewhere and we're snowbound, I'll read it again.
Kinsey had helped him track down and eventually jail killer Tyrone Patty.
All this comes just as Kinsey takes on a job for Irene Gersh, an uptight lady who wants her to find the mother she'd left behind three years before, then living in a desolate trailer park, once a Marine base, on the edge of the Mojave Desert.
Then, back in Santa Teresa, Irene Gersh has her mother moved to a local nursing home—from which she promptly disappears—and Kinsey tries to go about her business under Deitz's guard, which soon becomes a more personal involvement.
HUGE SPOILER under the tag.(view spoiler)[I was not happy with Kinsey deliberately confronting Patrick without a gun in hand.
She's already got a dead body on site and all kinds of evidence, and even if she gets a confession out of him it'll be a he said/she said situation, so I don't see the whole point to it anyhow, but that she'd confront a known murderer that way kills me.Then I was doubly not happy about her so sweetly driving Messinger to the airport.
If you are driving a car at high speed, and you know the guy plans to kill you, why not take a few risks?
