https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/23014868-the-lord-god-made-them-all

So a few years ago, on our trip to England, we spent a few nights in Thirsk (known as “Darrowby” in his books) and we visited the Herriot Museum (“The World of James Herriot”).
The owners grew up knowing James Herriott, who lived down the street with his family.
It’s just down the street from the Herriot Museum.
They can only do what they think is right.”“’Maybe ye don’t know it, Mr. Herriot, but this is the best time of your life.’ ‘Do you think so?’ ‘Aye, there’s no doubt about it.
James Herriot is one of the few authors that I will read repeatedly. I mean I will pick up a copy of one of his books that I have read before and read it again as I know those same stories will again make me laugh and cry and feel positive about the human race. I love animals, the real gift here is making me love people too. My James Herriot books are precious to me.
A lovely memoir by a Scottish veterinary doctor living in Yorkshire.
The stories and characters are not quite as memorable as in his other books, and there are some rather off-topic chapters (more about that in a bit).
As with his other books, the chronology bounces around, but that never really bothered me (except that I'd love to hear more about how/when/to whom Siegfried and Tristan got married).
Herriot's gifted that way.The chapters I felt were off-topic were where he intersperses entries from his diaries from his trips to Russia and Istanbul.
They just made me read fast to get back to what I felt was the meat of the book: his life as a vet in Yorkshire.
I was supposed to have devoted my day to Bill Bryson's At Home today, since I've got about 450 pages to get through between now and when my book group meets on Monday, but Christoper Timothy reading James Herriot is just too addicting. Herriot's hundredth birthday was this week, so I had to mark the occasion by indulging in this volume. No regerts! ;-)
I read the entire James Herriot series as a teenager, and loved them all. I would recommend them for anyone who loves animals and animal stories.
5/21/17 Kindle Daily Deal $1.99
I read this when my children were young. My middle child loved his books and thus we had the collection.
Most of the stories - like the birth of his daughter - took place just after the end of WW2.
The last book was set during WW2 and yet merely 20 years later, he describes these young Germans as friendly, when they had so recently been the enemy.
I very much enjoyed his recounting of both this trip and the flight to Istanbul with some Jersey cows.On the whole, though, this book is not quite as memorable as the previous ones.
Nevertheless, two stories do stand out - one with a happy ending and the other sad.
Of the 4 books that I have read in the All Creatures series, this one was by far the weakest.
The stories don't have the same charm as his first 2 books.
One of the things that detracts from this one is the telling of his trip to Russia.
The Russia story-line is very mediocre - no humor or charm in it at all.
Plus, this story-line randomly switches between past and present tense from one sentence to the next.
All Creatures Great and Small and All Things Bright and Beautiful are the two I would recommend.
If you haven't read these, you are sooooo missing out! It's only $2.99. Invest in your soul. Go get one now.
Perfect leisure reading with big rewards for the spirit, both laughter and tears to be expected.I love the beginning story describing the 7 gates of hell Herriot had to pass through before he got to this remote farm where the farmer was frugal and forgetful.
There were situations with some animals that simply could not be helped and yet, Herriot made such valiant efforts, such was the case with the Sister’s dog Brandy who had the then-incurable form of mange.My favorite stories.
I love the moments of camaraderie described between Jim and the miner, sharing those pints of beer together, the long visits and laughs.
I have loved these books from the first one I picked up.
If I wasn't laughing out loud in a room all by myself, I was mopping up the tears from a very touching experience I read about.
I am a succor for a good animal story.
This book is just a collection of experiences from when he was a vet, and it was interesting as well as hilarious.
This has brought back a lot of the fun stories I read way back and am enjoying it differently on screen than the written page.
Enjoyed both very much.
The joy of Herriot's writing is that he can bring the reader to laughter or tears, effortlessly. In the same way, whilst the focus remains on his animal patients, he has an abiding and clear-eyed affection for the humans he encounters too. Every budding writer should be made to read his prose to realise that economy and richness can go hand in hand to devestatingly good effect. Please read!
om James ini kisah hidupnya benerbener menarik, yaa. keliling pertanian pertanian, nyembuhin berbagai macam jenis hewan. sampe operasi cesar sapi! astaga.semua kisah beliau bersama hewan sangat menyenangkan. yg rada kurang sreg pas jalanjalan ke Rusia dan Turki aja.
This book is full with emotions. Sometimes, after reading a chapter, I found my eyes wet, and I gazed at nothing for a while. Sometimes, it made me chuckle and even laugh.Looking at the world through Herriot's eyes, I sigh and wish that things would continue to be beautiful and bright.
I remember my dad giving me these books for a birthday or xmas fairly early on, and I've loved them and returned to them ever since. Just re-listened to the excellent audio book version. _- love the accents, the humor, the wonderful setting, and the compassion to animals. Great storytelling.
As usual the gamut of emotions, laughter, joy, sadness, and so forth. James Herriott is an excellent writer. There aren't that many books I consider worth owning, but after reading James Herriot's first book, I purchased all his books. They are all a joy to read.
I think this was the least of all the James Herriot books, but was still enjoyable in its own right. There was no doubt he knew how to tell a story in a wonderfully engaging manner.
I just finished what I think may actually be the last of the complete set of the major James Herriot books, and it was a pleasure to be back in his world.
He has such a powerful way of taking joy in such a wide spread of experiences and people, and his sharing of this leaves one with no doubt that he is a truly masterful storyteller, with the added shift that in this book he's now a father for the first time and a few stories of that are added to the mix in ways that are lovely.
Herriot could really write short stories. Really well structured, always with a point and a pay-off, great to listen to on audio on a road-trip, and hilarious in the double entendres I can only presume he didn't realise he was writing. We found this to read, it being the only secular book (unwittingly?) in a Mennonite Airbnb in southern Indiana!
Oh how wonderful! I'll miss that so much and the end was so lovely as Herriot reflects back on his life. I enjoyed the parts in Turkey, too, it was a nice change of scenery. Most definitely books I'll reread over and over.
If you like animals, you ave to pick up this book or one of the many others written by a veterinarian who knows his stuff.
Oh, I'm a sucker for animal stories and these will make you laugh and make you cry. Good reading.
The chapters about the sea voyage were cool, and I loved Raun and how much he cared for the "sheeps." Many of the characters are so full of life - it was fun to think about peculiar clients that I may have in the future.
Rip and Brandy were my favourite small animal stories, and I love any large animal story in which cattle are basically big dogs.
There were many of the classic vet struggles that I am beginning to understand more already, like: "'But aren't you going to do something?' It was one of the great questions of veterinary practice." Classic.

The last book in James Herriot's series of stories about being a vet in the Yorkshire Dales in the 1930's-1960's.
I have loved these books since first reading them back in the 70's.
This last book covers mostly his post-WWII days and includes stories of travelling on a ship carrying sheep to Russia and a plane carrying cattle to Turkey.
Not all the stories have happy endings and there is more of a bittersweet feel to this book but it's still wonderful.
I'm sorry to come to the end of them once again.
Listened to as an audiobbok narrated by Christopher Timothy, who played Herriot in the absolutely wonderful BBC series.
Ini penutup kisah James Herriot yang sempurna. Kisahnya lebih variatif dengan masih mempertahankan humor-humor khas Herriot yang penuh kehangatan. Favoritku adalah kisah tentang si Jimmy anaknya saat maju di pertunjukan piano. Dan ada lagi kisah si dokter hewan ini dalam perjalanannya ke Rusia!! Duh, pinter banget sih nulis pengalaman hidup, jadi asyik seperti novel!!
The fourth installment of his experiences as a vet working in Yorkshire. Like the other three, this is the sort of book that you could dip into at various points and have a self-contained tidbit of his joys and struggles. I think I've said with the others, and it's true here too: it's good that he's not afraid to tell some tales on himself. An enjoyable, light read.
