https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/420750.Sarah_s_Child
He hasn't been the same man since.Sarah is his wife's best friend, who's been secretly in love with Rome for years and years, and would give anything to stop his suffering.One night Rome breaks down and what starts as simple comforting ends up with almost having sex.Soon after that Rome realises he's always felt comfortable with Sarah and that he can't lose her from his life as well, and they start seeing each other.-ROME-A lot of people absolutely hate him, and I get why.I didn't.First thing was him (view spoiler)[finding Sarah attractive even when he was married.Well, men (or women) aren't blind and we're bound to check out people and find some hot and sexy.
This book was written in 1985 but I am just discovering it now due to it being released on the Kindle.
What a great author this lady is, especially if she can have so many one star reviewers up in arms, giving out about the book.
Great story.
but I love mean old badass heros anyway, especially when they come up trumps in the end.
Had tears in my eyes at the end of it - happy tears.
Have read some other books by Linda and hopefully her older stuff will be brought out on Kindle.
Suspend the disbelief and enjoy the book .....
3 stars – Contemporary RomanceI knew going into this that readers tend to have a love or hate reaction to this book and that many consider Rome to be a jackass.
I didn’t really love or hate it, and yes, Rome definitely acted like a Grade A asshat for most of the book.
It makes no sense that Rome never asked Sarah out, especially considering that he’s the kind of man who goes after what he wants ruthlessly and doesn’t take no for an answer.
(hide spoiler)]But what annoyed me most about this book was how much of a spineless doormat Sarah was.
But for me,this was a book about Sarah, not Rome.She lost her best friend.She married a man who she knew did not love her just so he could be content.She got his love only to have it subdued with him wanting her to have an abortion and never have kids.She endured a pregnancy her husband ignored.She is the one that had no help from him for 9 months.
Not the way I wished her to but still.Rome was a week man and a prototype of a person that lets pain destroy the people he loves.Yes,he realizes he was not there for Sarah.
Written in 1985??! I wanted Sarah to grow a backbone, my heart went out to her. And Rome?? I'm not sure how to feel about him. A few times I wanted to slap him though.
It was like someone took one of those horrendous TV soap operas of the era and put it in written form.What could have been an interesting, taboo premise, putting together a widower and the best friend of his late wife, unfortunately turned trite, offensive, and ridiculous.Red flags went up within the first few pages, when widower Rome asks Sarah to come over and pick up a box of his late wife's belongings since it has been two years since she and their two children passed away in a tragic car accident, and he finally wants to sell the house and get rid of the painful reminders of his former life.
I don't like writing bad reviews to begin with and I try to be constructive (key word being "try").
I think the author was trying to convince me the bad behavior was justified; Sarah's by the lack of love in her childhood, Rome's by his overwhelming grief.
Instead I got a Sarah...a TSTL, desperate woman who took Rome's abusive behavior with a smile on her face.
(I don't even know what to think.)Low and behold the wife is killed and we learn that Rome has been lusting after Sarah since his wedding day.
But Linda Howard proved that just because you hate the story doesn't mean that it wouldn't touch your heart in a meaningful way.What if you're in love with a man and you were waiting for him your whole life?
But Sarah is so much nicer than I am and along the way, I learned to love their story.
I even cried a little because Linda Howard books can do that to you.So here's the moral of the story: Just because you hate the bread that a certain bakery has, it doesn't mean that all breads of that kind are nasty.
Sooo, stalker h's just don't appeal to me, they were both creeeeepyI wasn't feelin the lurve, but in terms of general creepyness, they went well together. Plus that whole unrequited love for you BFF's hubby is just soooo EWWW!!!
4.5 STARSLinda Howard has a way with quiet, but strong heroines, and the alpha males that love them.
I loved this book.
There was a situation that bothered me concerning Rome and Sarah, though.
Without giving anything away, logistically, the solution early on for an unexpected development was ludicrous.
That's where my half star was taken off.
I understood Rome's position, but it was still a pretty stupid solution.
I'm being vague, but anyone's who read this will know.
Mind you it all changed and we got a beautiful HEA.
Different, very emotional, but I enjoyed it!It's not going to be for everyone, the hero, Rome, has some real issues, however they are warranted.
He's having a hard time moving on, everyone grieves differently, so I didn't really judge him too harshly, especially since there were children involved.
I wish Sarah would have pushed back a little more, but she was also dealing with the same loss as Rome.
Thanks to Blacky for bringing this to my attention!
You can get a better perspective of the book from her review and Dorsey's too...loved her picture!
Blacky's review Dorsey's review

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pOsAq...Should have married the Brit.
Tudo muito impessoal.Ele avisa ela desde o início que ele não quer filhos porque nada nem ninguém vai substituir a família que ele perdeu.Aí o impensável acontece e Sarah engravida.Ele exige que ela aborte a criança.
The hero still loves the dead wife and suffer the loss of their two small children.
I"m sorry,“ he said again, waiting for her reaction.""Sarah knew, in his heart his only wife was Diane.""I can"t accept another child, so don"t…don"t ask me to try.""I can"t do it.
You either LOVE this one or HATE it.
Linda Howard is one of my Favourite authors, but all I can say about this book is...
OUCH.Mind you, this kind of story is my least liked, and I wouldn't have read it if it had been written by anyone else.Also should mention that it wasn't just his wife that died but his two little boys as well.
They really should mention that in the blurb!Super Hi-octane angst fest (view spoiler)[ and it doesn't let up til pretty much the last page.
I wasn't convinced that he loved her, forever second best to his first wife and kids, and there's no epilogue to smooth things over.
(hide spoiler)]
This story was worth reading because it was different from abusive relationships in "real life," in which one person starts out pleasant but later turns abusive.CAUTION SPOILERS:In this story, Rome starts out abusive, and later becomes healed, nonabusive and truly loving.
Howard, I suggest you read Mr. Perfect, Kill and Tell, Dream Man, After the Night and Almost Forever.
One more thought, my favorite character in Sarah's Child was the 15 year old neighbor, Derek.
Later when Sarah starts going into labor with her child, Derek tells her that he has been reading up on child delivery so that he could deliver the baby if she needs it.
It seems so strange for me to say that such a very sad story is outstanding, but it is, the emotion just rolls off the page and cannot do anything other than engage the reader and make them feel the pain that both the H & the h goes through, it takes a very clever author to do that and Ms Howard is definitely that!
If I could I would give this 6 stars and will definitely read more books by Ms Howard and will add her to my auto-buy list.
I'm probably in the minority on this one, but I like it.
I have an old paperback version that I've re-read a couple of times over the years and had to snap up the e-version at such a low price.
I do like how the h tries to grab the happiness she can with the hope and optimism that eventually will be the life she envisions.
I waffle at rating higher than 4 stars even though I've re-read a few times.
I'm stingy about 5 stars.
So 4 stars is still my rating.
I will do another re-read at some point.
***Three Stars***This story was a love/hate relationship for me.
I hated that Sarah was the ultimate doormat and took so much shit from Rome, and the sex between the two was not hot at all.
(view spoiler)[And when Rome took Sarah's virginity?
(hide spoiler)]But then again, I'm a total sucker for asshole heroes and mega angst, and this story had both in spades and kept me invested the entire story.
I just wish there could have been sufficient groveling or at least some decent ass kissing by Rome in the ending.
I guess I didn't hate this story, but I didn't totally end up loving it either.
But his coldness and unemotional relationship first with Sarah (which he pursued) and than during Sarah's unexpected pregnancy with their child made me want to whack him upside the head with and iron skillet!!!
Sarah has loved Rome for years is willing to do whatever it takes to keep him...to a certain degree.
Eventually Rome's emotional wall comes tumbling down and that scene had me tearing up (and feeling guilty for wanting to knock some sense into him.....in the form of a iron skillet no less).
This is one of Linda Howard's early books and it reminded very much of a Diana Palmer book...it's interesting to see how she perfected her writing over the years.
I read this along time ago, but it still always stays with me. Mostly because of the story...and my inability to really connect with Rome and Sarah. There were too many unpc parts for me to get invested in either protagonist. Rome is typical Asshat and Sarah is way to self sacrificing for my taste.I know this is a favorite for many, but this is my least favorite of Linda Howards.
Did not like Sarah she was too pathetic!
It has not been well reviewed by my Goodreads Friends, but since I am a Linda Howard Fan, I've learned to take the bad with the good and am ready to give this one a fair shot.
I must say that Linda Howards evolution as a writer is nothing short of amazing.
Her later works, especially Open Season and Mr. Perfect are just amazing books.Every doormat needs a big, muddy boot to stomp all over it: Sarah meet Rome.
Yeah, yeah Rome lost his wife and two sons to an auto accident and wanted to crawl into the grave with them, but his massive libido got him over that soon enough.
Despite treating her like crap, abandoning her during her pregnancy, and living with the baby for weeks without EVEN LOOKING AT THE CHILD, in one final romantic gesture he accepts the baby and the heroine, happily ever after.Ack. And one more thing, that I found hilarious: she goes to the doctor to get on the pill and the Doctor tells her that at 33 she's almost too old for birth control pills to be safe--and that two years is the maximum length of time she could take them before she had to find some other method of birth control.
KNOCKED OUT!this is what i feel after completing this book,such an intense emotional read,my heart w
and strike two for this author.https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...
The Deal: When a bad accident kills his wife and 2 kids, Rome Matthews changed, becoming a cold and distant person, knowing he will never love anyone like he loved Diane and his sons.
First he's never going to love Sarah, then he's in love with her, but he still doesn't want to have kids.
He gets Sarah pregnant, blames her, asks for an abortion, 'resigns' himself to the fact the kids is happening, but he doesn't want anything to do with it, so Sarah can't tell him anything about it or her pregnancy!
He blames Sarah because he got her pregnant.
This is a guilty favorite of mine.
I feel like I'm not supposed to like it but I do.
I enjoyed the fact that the hero never decides he didn't love his first wife as so often happens in romances where a widower remarries.
Even though the heroine seems to be doormatish I think really she's just so determined to have him that she lets nothing stand in her way which is not quite the same thing.
I just enjoy stories where a hero has been so wounded that they don't seem to really be complete and watch them come back to life with the heroine.
I just couldn't get past the fact that the man's ENTIRE FAMILY had to die for them to be together. Morbid. Too bad, though, the secondary characters were very interesting. I want to give it more stars, but it just made me so sad, and I don't like feeling sad when I read a romance! I'm selfish! Well, not throughout the entire book anyway.
