https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/101996.The_Erasers
The main character, special agent Wallas, who travels to the city to solve a murder, repeatedly reflects on this lack of aesthetic attraction and beauty, as when we read: “a city completely barren of appeal for an art lover," and then again, “a huge stone building ornamented with scrolls and scallops, fortunately few in number – in short, of rather somber ugliness.” From Wallas’s multiple observations, this unnamed city’s stark ugliness can bring to my mind Golconda by the surrealist René Magritte, a painting of a cityscape raining men in black suits and bowlers, painted in the same year as the publication of The Erasers.This unattractiveness also extends to the people inhabiting the city.
Much movement of characters through physical space—the streets of an unnamed provincial city beset by canals and drawbridges, a derelict inn, etc.—focusing on externals.
There is also a mention of anarchists.
The novel has elements of the police procedural; it might also be called, in part, a murderers' procedural.
Reminds me in some ways, too, of Joseph Conrad's The Secret Agent.
Probably because of the anarchists, though in that earlier novel (1907) they tend to promote terror by bombing things.
Streets of the unnamed town are labyrinthine.
The post-modernist bits don't get in the way.
An unusual, rewarding read.
Distances are so affected that they become virtually unrecognizable, without it being possible to say in just what way they are transformed: extended or telescoped—or both at once—unless they have acquired a new quality that has more to do with geometry… Sometimes this happens to lost cities, petrified by some cataclysm for centuries—or only for a few seconds before their collapse, a wink of hesitation between life and what already bears another name: after, before, eternity.Incertitude and uncertainty – the characters keep roaming the labyrinths of the crime versions until they get lost in the maze.In the murky water of the aquarium, furtive shadows pass—an undulation whose vague existence dissolves of its own accord… and afterward it is questionable whether there had been anything to begin with.
Nine murders in nine days, one by one, every evening at seven-thirty. Sounds like a typical plot for a lurid, pulpy thriller– instead, what you get is a mindbender of postmodern writing that turns conventional tropes of detective fiction upside down & becomes, at times, too smart for its own good.Part thrilling, part annoying, the book explores a murder that (view spoiler)[ was never committed! (hide spoiler)]The same event is revisited several times, involving different characters, and reco
Sounds like a typical plot for a lurid, pulpy thriller– instead, what you get is a mindbender of postmodern writing that turns conventional tropes of detective fiction upside down & becomes, at times, too smart for its own good.Part thrilling, part annoying, the book explores a murder that (view spoiler)[ was never committed!
Detective novels are consumer products, sold by millions, and are made in the following way: there are clues to an event, say a murder, and someone comes along and puts the the pieces together in order that truth may be revealed.
This, of course, is Alain Robbe-Grillet, the screenwriter of Last Year at Marienbad, writing in 1953; Les gommes (The Erasers) was his first novel, and the combination of detailed visual description and vagueness in most other respects is a hallmark of the nouveau roman, which he virtually invented.
Robbe-Grillet takes the conventions of the policier or French detective novel and turns them on their head.
Modiano was still a child, of course, when this was written, but he would surely have grown up reading noir novels as a boy, and so have been interested in Robbe-Grillet's repurposing of them when he began to think of becoming a writer himself.
Personally, in the beginning of my reading this book all these confusing facets of the narrative have created kind of difficulties for me in getting inside the book but keeping me all out, however moving halfway through the book, I started to find it more intriguing, genius, and pretty enjoyable in tandem with time-space and narrator shifts as if it was me who shifted all time from here to there, from then to now, from this to that.
The only time I was ever smart was reading this book in grad school. I cracked it, and the rest of my class thought I was nuts. Then, good ol' Dicky Dillard said, "Even Harold Bloom didn't get it at first." I've since gone back to being dumb.
I began reading this book three years ago, read about 75% of it, then I had to put it aside when I started grad school.
I'm pretty sure that this was the best way to read this book.
It is a time and thought consuming read and you will benefit by re-reading parts or all of it.
Read, repeat, read, repeat.
This book is a bumbling comedic novel layered in a dark, mysterious tone.
Includes on of the best descriptions of a tomato I have read.
I think this would make a really great dark comedy movie.
It deals with a detective by the name of Wallas who is sent to an unnamed town to investigate the murder of Economics Professor Daniel Dupont.
The murder is believed to be linked to a series of eight other murders occurring across the country over the past eight days, each at precisely 7:30 P.M. What's different about this particular murder is that there is no body, and moreover, unknown to Wallas but revealed early to the reader, is that Dupont is in fact not dead.There are many wonderful aspects to this novel.
Robbe-Grillet in noir-est noir form for his first published novel.
Even in a story of detection and murder, of course, his prose is highly subjective and filled with ambiguous repetition of detail.
These tendencies were mostly early in their arc of development at this point, though, meaning the clearest plotting of anything I've read from him, but also less of that rarefied aesthetic atmosphere that continually permeated his work thereafter.
It reads like Robbe-Grillet, but doesn't entirely feel like him.
And it is the feeling he creates, so hard to describe but so strangely magnetic, which seems his strongest point.
During the early part of the work, the story seems to be about a murder attempt gone awry.
And then the author begins repeating incidents, even phrases and sentences being the same but with different characters.
Puzzles, puzzles…Next, dream sequences seem to be inserted into the middle of the narrative, dreams of different characters, not marked off from the primary narrative.
Robbe-Grillet inserts extended passages of apparent minutiae - how a tomato has been cut, how food is arranged on a plate, descriptions of items in store windows - have these any relevance at all??
This book reminded me a little of a David Lynch movie—specifically, Blue Velvet.
Robbe-Grillet describes seemingly mundane objects and scenes with intense details, much in the way that Lynch zooms in with extreme close-ups.
The effect is peculiar and eerie and leaves much for the observer to conclude for him/herself.Overall, I think I like Djinn a bit better than The Erasers, but the latter is definitely worth the read.
It’s actually not quite as surreal as I thought it would be, and I think it dragged a little in the middle, but it picks up by the end and gives a satisfying conclusion.
Allain Robbe-Grillet is one of those writers one either gets or not gets. Care or not care. I care, but do i get? I don't know, but I do enjoy his writings and it brings me back to a time when you can get experimental fiction published by a big publishing house at your local bookstore. Things are a tad different these days...So what we have here is a thriller of sorts. The subjectivity erased out of the narration. An interesting read, and everyone should read Robbe-Grillet at least once.
The agent's resemblance to the prime suspect leads the story into murky territory.
This is Robbe-Grillet's first novel and it prefigures his later trademark narrative techniques and stylistic preoccupations, including the blurring of character roles, reinvention and reconfiguring of key scenes, and obsessive attention to the precise description of objects and the surroundings in which they are situated.
Here these elements are slow to appear and not as defining of the text as in his later novels, but when they do expand in prominence, the book becomes more interesting.
در زمان نوشتن این کتاب، رب-گریه، هنوز رمان نو نویس نبود، هنوز رولان بارت «ادبیات شیئیه» را به نوشتار او نسبت نداده بود، هنوز قصد تحول کلیت رمان در میان نبود.در این زمان، رب-گریه نویسنده ای جوان بود، که از جویس، کافکا و فاکنر تاثیر گرفته بود، و می خواست رمانی بنویسد نزدیک به این نویسندگان مهم، و نسبتا متفاوت با آثار کلاسیک، به خصوص بالزاک.
هنوز در نظر او خواننده اهمیت خودش را از دست نداده و مجبور نیست که صفحات زیادی از توصیف های عجیب و غریب را تحمل کند.در پاک کن ها، همه چیز خوب است، همه چیز معقول و آرام است (با وجود پیچیدگی نسبی داستان) و ما، امروز می توانیم بفهمیم که این سکوت، تنها نشانه ای است برای شروع طوفان.
everything and everyone in this book is a device. sterile. well constructed, like a bunker. are nouveau roman and la nouvelle vague the same thing but novel and motion film, respectively? because it feels like a godard movie without the girl. Alphaville without anna. the blurry transitions in narrative perspective are fun.oh, what's up with "revolver"? repeated a hundred times. is that the translator's mistake? even has a picture of a revolver in the cover art of the edition i borrowed. the gun in question has a clip, jams, and can utilize a silencer. that's a pistol.3 stars
Les Gommes = The erasers, Alain Robbe-Grilletعنوان: پاک کن ها؛ نویسنده: آلن رب گری یه؛ مترجم: پرویز شهدی؛ مشخصات نشر: تهران، نشر دشتستان؛ 1379، در 336 ص، شابک: 9649285210؛ موضوع: داستانهای فرانسوی قرن 20 مچاپ دیگر همین عنوان: تهران، نسل آفتاب، 1389، در 344 ث، شابک: 9786005847291؛
Les Gommes = The erasers‬, Alain Robbe-Grilletعنوان: پاک کن ها؛ نویسنده: آلن رب گری یه؛ مترجم: پرویز شهدی؛ مشخصات نشر: تهران، نشر دشتستان؛ 1379، در 336 ص، شابک: 9649285210؛ موضوع: داستانهای فرانسوی قرن 20 مچاپ دیگر همین عنوان: تهران، نسل آفتاب، 1389، در 344 ث، شابک: 9786005847291؛

I had to read this book in graduate school. It made me feel like a failure as a human being, but I could tell how brilliant it was. Kind of like if Einstein started a conversation with you while you were drunk and tried to explain this new theory he'd been working on, and he did it in German, and oh yeah, you're drunk. Gibberish, and maybe he's not really Einstein, but a serial killer. But you can tell he's either brilliant or mad or both. That's The Erasers. Keyser Soze, drunk, talking astrophysics in German. NC
This book played like a movie in my head while I was reading it.
i hate crap like this.
the author constructs a detective novel-like plot and then proceeds to weave in all kind of confusion and inconsistency in order to make it into serious, postmodern literature.
the critics evidently bought all the shit he was selling, because this guy is supposed to be a big deal.
if  paul auster was french (which he probably wishes he was in the instants of insecurity when he momentarily doubts that new york is at the precise center of the literary universe) and had been born thirty years earlier, he would have produced exactly this pretentious, deliberately obfuscatory, literary cop-out.
- Sofocle//Daniel non era triste..
non era allegro, certo: l’allegria non aveva più senso, passato il cancello del giardino.
Triste no, però.
Non so come dire..
Non è vero neanche questo.
no, ciò che rendeva insopportabile la vita con Daniel era il sentirlo perdutamente solo.
Era solo e non ne soffriva.
Non era fatto per il matrimonio, né per altri legami di sorta.
Personaggi che si disegnano intorno all’aria fredda, situazioni che prendono forma attorno alle descrizioni degli oggetti più banali.
A tratti trascrizione di deduzioni, dei processi mentali che non riveliamo a nessuno e che non capiamo mai nemmeno noi.
So torn..
What a damned difficult book!
The image I had while reading it was that of analysing an intricately detailed baroque sculpture.
Dense demanding and completely unforgiving.
The book is so clinical it's almost impossible to stay engaged and if you zone out - like I did (a lot), you feel you're missing out.
It is so anally structured, you need to hold the entire book in your head to get a proper look at it.
It is painful.
Admirable, butnotreallyRobbe-Gyouneedtochillthefuckout.In unraveling the enigma that is ARG I have line up a couple of his films and perhaps I might even tackle one of his novellas (no :/).
Trans-Europ-Express looks yummy tho.
Ce roman est définitivement intrigant! Je ne suis pas certaine d’avoir tout compris, mais j’ai envie de comprendre, alors je n’arrête pas d’y penser depuis que je l’ai terminé.
سبک نو و بسیار جذابی داره کارهاشون
Sonra gene aynı ekmek diliminden bir tane daha, ama bu defa peynirlisini, ardından da bir bira almak için aynı şeyleri yapar, sonra da yemeğini küp küp kesmeye koyulur:’*Alain Robbe-Grillet yalnızca gördüklerini tasvir etmekle kalmaz, aynı zamanda yöresinde yeni şeyler bulan ve bulduklarını bize anlatan anlatıcıya dönüşür.
Metin onlarla bir bütünlüğe ulaşır.Alain Robbe-Grillet, dünyayı ‘saçma’ bir gerçek olarak tanımlayan J:P:Sartre’tan bir adım ileriye gider ve dünyayı şöyle açıklar: ‘Dünya ne anlamlıdır, ne de Sartre’ın değişiyle ‘absurde’dür; sadece vardır ve gözümüzün önünde durmaktadır.’Yeni romancı var olanı, insanın ona verdiği herhangi bir anlamdan sıyırarak kendi anlamıyla anlatmaya, okuyucuya kavratmaya çalışır.
Reading Auster's "New York Trilogy" (which clearly owes a debt to "The Erasers"), I had no difficulty digesting the heady mix of theory and narrative.
With "The Erasers," it's not so much that Robbe-Grillet throws ideas at you so much as he trots out thought experiments.
It's not that I don't like a challenging read.
It's just that I like a different type of challenge than Robbe-Grillet sets before his reader, and this derives, I think, from the fact that Robbe-Grillet seems to be taunting me to make sense of his wily narrative.
The premise of the book is simple and gripping enough, but its satirical overtones take over soon enough to keep the reader from being too emotionally invested, and thus disappointed when the mystery takes on new literary territories.
At turns, this book is amazingly unique (the allusions to Oedipus, for example, are very cool) and dull (one questions the use of overly cliched stock characters).
This effect, of course, comes about only because of spectacularly careful and artful construction, which may be frustrating for the hard-boiled mystery reader but which should dazzle and delight literary critics and those looking for something new and different.
This is a convoluted story with no pay off.
I am aware that some consider Robbe-Grillet to be an extraordinary writer.
I will admit the story had some charm about it.
But, in truth, I found the structure of the novel to be obscure for the sake of being obscure.
I read up on what others had to say about this book.
I paid attention.
I finished the book.
But, apart from being quite atmospheric, there just isn't much to recommend it to others.
At some point in the future I may reread this in order to gain greater understanding.
But, that's in the future.
Great novel, groundbreaking for its time. The translation, however, is not so good. The translator seems to have a limited grasp of idiomatic English, and far too many phrases are translated in awkward or obscure ways, often missing the point of the original (which is important, since this is a philosophical novel, of sorts). After fifty years, isn't it time somebody did a better translation? Who knows, maybe Robbe-Grillet just isn't that popular in America anymore...
