https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/87640.PostSecret
The correct title should be "Postsecret: Extraordinary Confessions from Ordinary Lives: People Are Secretly Pretty Sad And Have Some Intense Shit That Hopefully They're Dealing With in Ways Other Than Anonymous Postcards".
"He's an arty type...no principles." - W.S. BurroughsDuring junior high, the high school psychology classes would often visit in order to give us anonymous research surveys.
(Luckily this was the Bible Belt in the mid-80's, so it was still bad form to broach the subject with seventh graders of collaboration versus solo project...)Assuming that our questionnaires were not quickly trashed, I would have loved to have seen some of those research papers.
Most likely they hypothesized that the seventh grade English class at T.S. Hill Middle School was comprised mainly of the understudies of Rick James, the Marquis de Sade, and late period Elvis Presley.
Here's a quote from one of the postcard that wiped the smile from my face while *reading* this amazing book :Income from teaching creative writing ... $ 32,654.00Income from writing creatively ... $ 0.00I admire how Frank Warren got his idea for this collected postcards book, and reading the anonymous-es confessions somehow made me realize that I'm not the only person on this planet that have deepest darkest secret(s) that I'm dying to share but so afraid that anyone I know or know me find it (/them) out.

I really adore these PostSecret books.
I feel like I'm kind of late in finding them, but what the hell!
So I'm not on the cutting edge.
That's no secret.Anyway, I am touched by the secrets strangers tell to strangers, so saddened by the guilt and hurt and loss that ordinary people are carrying around.
I can only hope that telling their secrets has helped this folks heal.
(Does that sound trite?
But it's true, it's really true!)I am also amazed and pleased by the art that people create on these postcards to help them express themselves.This is really good stuff.
This books is oddly inspiring and terrifying at the same time.
People from all over the country sent postcards to this guy with their deepests secrets and fears and some will scare the hell out of you and some will make you cry and the worst part is some will make you nod your head and agree!
The author still receives postcards from all over the world and has made a sequel as well, there is also a website and the postcards were used in the song and video "Dirty Little Secret" by the All-American Rejects.
I've seen bits of the books before, and articles about it, but this was the first of the books that I've read all the way through and really took some time with.
The book, and the project as a whole, touched me and elicited emotional reactions.
Some have found it to be therapeutic, others have been helped just by reading the book and knowing they aren't alone.
I saw an interview with Frank Warren, and I think he summed up the power of the project for me when he said, “Every single person has one secret that would break your heart.
At first,I found this book fun in a guilty pleasure voyeur kind of way.
However, as I read more and more secrets I became engrossed with each post card and the the gravity of what it presented.
It was quite liberating and heart wrenching to read all these secrets, some of them depressing beyond belief, that are written by every day people.
It makes you wonder about your friends, your parents, your siblings.
Anyways, it inspired me to get back to writing in my journal.
I think unburdening ones heart to paper can be just as therapeutic and relieving as telling a person.
I don't know how many stars I should give after reading other people's secrets. But for the idea & the artsy postcards that been sent to PostSecret, I could give it 4 ⭐. I haven't found something like this before. Reading this collection felt like hearing confessions. Some are happy to get rid of it, some relieved to wrote it down & sent it away, some just want to brag and some wrote it down with hope.
PostSecret is a still ongoing project where all kinds of ordinary people anonymously send in decorated postcards with some confession, truth or secret to tell.
The postcards arriving every day in the mail are each art projects, with everything on the front from vintage photography to nail polish, and no matter the confession, so long as it's anonymous it shows up eventually on PostSecret's blog website.
However, the creator of the project picked some of his favorite ones to be printed into a full-colour book.
Most of the postcards in PostSecret are from the United States in the book, although some might be from Canada or Britain as well.
This was a super enjoyable read, but like, in a voyeur way? Looking at peoples secrets like this was really impressive and eye opening. I can't really say much beyond that about this book since it's not a story so much as a confessional. I enjoyed it nonetheless and some people put some serious effort into the postcards they sent in!
Is it just me or do people always think they are unique to the extent that nobody thinks the way they do?
Can the truth be that we are all self conscious, hopeful, hold the occasional grudge, the shame of a certain pettiness over a trifle we know is absurd but can't entirely release, etc.?We are all just people.
How else do the marketing algorithms so accurately predict us?
A call goes out for people to write down their deepest secret on the back of a home made self designed post card, and mail it in, anonymously.
Because you have that secret, too
Raw, honest and beautiful!
I remember reading about PostSecret when it first began a couple of years ago, and a couple of months ago found the weekly blog compiled by Frank Warren.
People send Warren a 3 by 5 postcard that reveals a secret that they have never told anyone.
Selections of what he receives appear on the blog and in this, the first of 4 books.The postcards in this book are not organized in any particular way, but the secrets that they reveal include betrayal, love, fear, courage, despair, hope, lonliness, and connection--and anything falling between those opposites.
For me, reading the secrets provokes sadness, sympathy, disgust, hope, laughter, and sometimes recognition.
The secrets from this book that have stuck with me are"I love one of my children"and "the medication is not enough to make me forget what he did to me . . . if i see him again i will kill him to save the others"There are also some less serious secrets, such as"I think women who don't wear makeup . . . are lazy"and"I ATE ALL THE BLUEBERRIES (AND THEY WERE DELICIOUS)"
“How I wish I could hug everyone and tell them that it's okay. It's okay to be scared and angry and hurt and selfish. It's part of being human."
If you can't read the text on this blurry photo, it says: "In November 2004, I printed 3000 postcards inviting people to share a secret with me..." That was enough to intrigue me.
What started out as a social experiement/art project quickly turned into a phenomenon as postcards filled with secrets - some amusing, some scary, some dark as heck - began flooding Frank Warren's mailbox, and continue to do so today.I read this after collapsing at home on my last day of Finals, in need of something to take my mind off the stress of the week prior.
there are two kind of secrets: those we keep from others and those we hide from ourselves....are you willing to share yours???this book was so liberating, as it was comforting.I dont think i can describe with words the emotions, thoughts, insight it gave to me. How much pain, frustration, shattered dreams, fears, hopes.. can all be condensed into a simple sentence. these simple revelations had so much substance. I laughed, cried, gasped.. and of course; empathize,because many of this quiet thoughts were ones of my own.. what a creative project Frank! Excellent book!
While reading this, I realize I'm not the only one who has weird and wild belief or secrets. Some of my secrets were written there and when I saw them, I don't know how to react. In life we sometimes thought we're the only one experiencing terrible things but no, someone out there is experiencing that too. I don't know if we should be happy about it or sad. One thing I know is that we're not alone.
How I wish I could hug everyone and tell them that it's okay. It's okay to be scared and angry and hurt and selfish. It's part of being human. A must read every one!
The big secret: people are lonely and unhappy with themselves. I don't mean that as sarcasm, I mean that the anonymous secrets in this book (and updated everyday on the website) are proof that struggling is universal.
A fun read. He invited people to mail him anonymous postcards with a secret. The book is all of those secrets. Some people have lived with horrible secrets, others are just funny (ex. - I like to pee when I swim). A quick look at all the postcards.
There was a postcard written in my handwriting... It wasn't me, but it made me think that I had sent one and had forgotten about it. :/
Got this for a $2 steal at the St. Andrew's Book Sale.
Warren created a project in which he would ask for anonymous submissions of postcards which had their mailers' secrets on them.
The project became huge as thousands upon thousands mailed in their confessions, and so this book of curation was created.
I think what garners people's curiosities and sympathies towards these submissions is the universality of suffering.
There is a quote included in the middle of this book that I think expresses the success of this project well: "Without suffering, there would be no compassion."Here is the official website where you can see some of the more recent entries: http://postsecret.com/
I have leafed through this in bookstores in the past but never from cover to cover.
Since I have learned the wonders of the public library system I was finally able to pore over it, giving it the attention it deserved.
I love this book.
I love the concept.
I love the art.
I love the individual expressions (and confessions)of things that can be unifying and liberating to the masses.
There are many secrets that i could do without, usually of a sexual nature, but you can't really censor people's secrets.
Such is art.
I read Post Secret series 7 or 8 years ago.
I believe this one is the first of the series, which is the best.
The sequels are fine, but as the project gained fame, it attracted more and more attention-getter submissions, and I suspect a good number of them are fake secrets--too eloquent and even smart-ass in disclosing their long-time secrets.
And more and more near or downright criminal secrets and sexual contents and less of the subtle secrets that nonetheless bother us.
Pictures do say more than words sometimes, and there is catharsis in releasing secrets.
The best way to free yourself from a dark secret or any secret is to tell that secret to someone else. Frank Warren has figured out a way to do that and remain anonomous. Write it on a postcard, store-bought or homemade, and mail it to him. This series of PostSecret books are the best of the lot. Some are hysterical, others moving and some downright gross (ie. the wife that pust boogers in her husband's soup) and no matter if you hate the idea or love it, you have to admit the books ae compelling.
Amazing idea behind this collection of postcards. Read a few and you become compelled to read the rest. Some leave you laughing and some leave you with a feeling of dread. All are presumably true and it is intriguing to see how the people decided to convey their secrets, often with images. A good coffee table book (as long as you enjoy the strange conversations that follow). I recommend at least flipping through it next time you are at the book store. Reactions may vary but its worth the try.
It can be scary what real people do and have anonymously confessed to. I think this is a peak into how a lot of people really behave in a society that they feel anonymous. It just goes to show that a lot of people show little accountability for their behavior. For better or for worse, I think this says a lot about our society....
