https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/23453112-modern-romance
Between the two of them, they did focus groups, had pie charts, and looked at how people dated in a few different cultures.
This is like Aziz scrolling through thousands of personal texts to see what people are saying to each other.
In fact, there are upsides (searching for someone you connect with on a deep level, instead of settling) and downsides (expecting too much from one person, and not being satisfied) when it comes to Modern Romance.Admittedly, I had no real reason to want to read a book about dating.
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/3.5 Stars Modern Romance went on my TBR as soon as I heard rumors of its existence. We’re talking about waiting months for this damn thing (and also never being able to track down an ARC) . . .  Quick confession – I never bothered reading the synopsis for this book. I saw Aziz Ansari had a “romance” book coming out and my brain immediately thought it would be something like “Tom Haverford’s Guide to Dating” . . .  If I would have bothe
I saw Aziz Ansari had a “romance” book coming out and my brain immediately thought it would be something like “Tom Haverford’s Guide to Dating” .
It covered everything from the mind games of not immediately responding to text messages in order to not appear desperate, to how modern romance works in countries other than ‘Murica, to online dating (I’m telling you, if it gets any easier than Tinder y’all single folks might as well just buy sex robots and save yourself the time and effort of leaving the house), to cyberstalking snooping on your significant other .
In India in those days, "love" marriages were still exceptions rather than the norm: when you had to look at the religion, caste, family background, and age of a possible partner who was to share your life (divorces were absolute stigma!) before hitching up, falling in love was like solving a mathematical equation with too many constraints.
I was continuously reminded of the “good old days” while reading this book, especially when I read this:People in arranged marriages start off lukewarm, but over time they really invest in each other and in general have more successful relationships.
As a single woman I feel like Aziz Ansari knows my pain. Yes I am single by choice ( not my choice, but still a choice) , He knows how unpleasant it is to stare impotently at a screen waiting for a message that never arrives “we all have Tanya on our phones”  The hours slouched by. “I’m so stupid!” he writes. “I should have typed ‘Hey’ with two y’s, not just one!” Later: “Did Tanya’s phone fall into a river/trash compactor/volcano? Did Tanya fall into a river/trash compactor/volcano?? Oh no, Tan
As a single woman I feel like Aziz Ansari knows my pain.
Did Tanya fall into a river/trash compactor/volcano??
Their research program included focus groups and interviews with hundreds of people in big and small cities , They set up a discussion forum on the social networking websites, interviewed experts, consulted books on sociology, psychology and human behavior.the book deals with online dating 
I always figured there was a chance someone who was a stalker type would use it as an opportunity to kidnap and murder me.I’m not sure how the scenario would go.
Would I like to meet ‘the love of my life’ or ‘the man of my dreams’ my 'soul mate' if you will?
They never think, Oh, I’m sure he’s much more intelligent and thoughtful in person.
This is just his “lazy phone persona.” I have the best example of this from some guy who was trying to ‘git wit me’.
Look, I suck at spelling, but I know for a fact that devices today help a person out with that problem.
I’m 99.9% sure this guy will never read this review.
But a soul mate is a very hard thing to find.”That’s a lot to ask.
At the beginning of the audiobook, Aziz joked with 'us listeners', about being "Lazy People"......too lazy to sit down and read a book.
( and happy) In the middle of the book...still enjoying this clever-wise-comedian, and his heterosexual pairing with graphs to boot...I quietly said to myself ...YEP, STILL GLAD I'M MARRIED!!At the end of the audiobook...Having enjoyed a discussion about the beginning's attraction of a great relationship with lust and passion...then moving into the companion phase ----which is next to follow if the couple stays together...Or?might a person move on to another person?
Crew sweatshirt that didn't live up to his expectations upon seeing a larger picture.-- On one of our subreddit threads we asked people to tell us about their best first dates, and it was amazing to see how many involved doing things that are easy and accessible but require just a bit more creativity than dinner and a movie.His parents both work in media, and every year he goes to the Westminster Dog Show at Madison Square Garden and finds his way backstage through a combination of walking with a purpose and flashing media credentials his parents help with.
Startlingly inessential.Early on, Ansari makes a somewhat baffling statement that he felt compelled to write this book because there wasn't any other literature on modern dating culture-- a topic explored ad nauseum in newspaper thinkpieces, podcasts, and other disposable pop science bestsellers (many of which he goes on to reference throughout the book).
On the whole, his efforts to ground the book in sociological exploration torpedo the humor and the book ultimately doesn't succeed as science or satire.I suppose this would be easy to dismiss as the latest in a long tradition of disposable novelty bathroom reading written by comedians, but knowing that Ansari was given a $3.5 MILLION book deal to produce it can't help but rankle.
Aziz was interested in how technology has changed dating culture, and he opens the book with a funny story about a girl, Tanya, who didn't text him back after he had asked her out.
One aspect of their research I found especially interesting was that online dating sites and apps, such as Match.com and Tinder, have dramatically increased the number of options for people, but having so many choices can be overwhelming.
One woman told the story of how she would check Tinder before going a date, just in case she saw someone more interesting than the guy she was supposed to meet.I also liked the perspective of elderly folks who were interviewed.
I think Aziz Ansari just convinced me to get on Tinder?
That’s the level of dependability I’m rockin’.)First: GO WITH THE AUDIOBOOK.Now, you may be thinking, Emma, despite your claims of general trustworthiness, I do not trust you.
And so I lived my best extreme-couponer life, and posted a status asking for recommendations.Sofi came THRU.She suggested I check out the audiobook version of Modern Romance - that’s this book!
Honestly, it’s like a six-hour podcast about love hosted by Aziz Ansari.
Ansari and his co-author, Eric Klinenberg, set about to write a book that encapsulates and explains ALL OF MODERN ROMANCE, EVERYWHERE.
I also couldn't decide whether I should have felt guilty about making out with her while her kind-of boyfriend was in another country.- I was thereafter notorious for my many flirtationships, but nothing serious happened for a long time until...----------2) Mildred - circa 2011 - age 22: I ended up meeting Mildred after moving in with a buddy who was very social and outgoing.
In other news I finally had the guts to break up with her myself, in person even, at a Cafe Zupas.Relevant points: - Up until Tinder, I relied on my friends to set me up on dates or to bring new people into our social circles that I could get to know.
Dating sites, swipe apps like Tinder and sexting are a far cry from how people used to meet – you know, through friends and family; answering personal ads; video dating, where you watch potential partners' VHS tapes (!); braving noisy, crowded bars….Ansari has teamed up with NYU sociology professor Eric Klinenberg for the book, so there are many quotes from experts and plenty of facts, figures and even some graphs.
(Note: Aziz admits at the outset that the book is primarily about heterosexual relationships and most of the research was done with middle-class people.)But by far the most fascinating sections in the book are about dating practices in other countries: Qatar, Japan, France.
I came into this not expecting much, but this was fascinating! I picked it up without reading the description, so I was pleasantly surprised to find the majority of this is based on psych studies. If you're interested in the psychology behind modern dating, I highly recommend. Definitley listen to this as an audiobook.It also left me more depressed about being single, but heigh-ho!
In Modern Romance, Ansari combines his irreverent humor with cutting-edge social science to give us an unforgettable tour of our new romantic world.“The world is available to us, but that may be the problem.”Fun fact: I actually started 2017 with this read, but at the time it didn't feel relevant enough for me to get the most out of it, so I put the book down.
But to give credit where credit is due, there are a couple of chapters dedicated to exploring romance in other parts of the world, such as Buenos Aires, Tokyo, Paris, and Doha.All in all: I'm just glad I finally got around to reading Aziz Ansari's Modern Romance with the end of the year in sight.
In this itself, I suppose, I found the humour and comfort knowing that this digital age of romance is as wacked up as I find it to be from my own familiarity of it.
What further makes "Modern Romance" a passable book for me was Aziz Ansari himself - the narrator was undeniably of the voice of Ansari and the jokes were unmistakably in the tone of his humour.
So if you're a fan of him, great, you're likely going to enjoy "Modern Romance".
Otherwise, like a text conversation that dies off or a forgettable date, there's nothing you're missing here that you didn't already know about digital dating if you skipped this book.
The knowledge offered in this book is pretty common and obvious, nothing you haven't read online/heard on a podcast. But some anecdotes, especially about dating in other countries/cultures are funny and interesting.I am glad I listened to an audio narrated by Ansari himself. I can't imagine reading the book on my own, to be honest.
Alright audiobook listen although Aziz berates you for listening to the audiobook instead of reading it.AZIZ YOU DON'T KNOW MY LIFE.
This book is more insightful than I first anticipated. It is a funny book indeed, but the focus group discussions and other researches that discussed in this book are good for my own thinking and introspection.
It was funny, for me, reading about the way romance was done before the technology we have today and in modern times, because I went through my teens in a gap time I guess.
So I guess I kind of got to experience some of both dating times.
This book also made me supremely happy that I'm already in a relationship and not dealing with the single life games.
Definitely worth the read, and I think that no matter anyone's relationship status, everyone can find something to take from this.
Ok, so I picked this up thinking this was going to be a Aziz Ansari version of a Steve Harvey book.
You know the kind with advice like "Ladies, don't call him back right away!" kind of thing.
This is not that kind of book.
Ansari worked with a sociologist to look at love in the modern age.
I really like that the book took a more academic approach.
Because it's Aziz, it's also still funny.
Overall, a great, fun read.
And for the single people out there, great fodder for chatter on a first date :D
We can invest in our careers now, and date more and live life as a single, learning about ourselves and the things that are going to make us happy if we do decide to pair off.
(and it's here I'm going to put a plug in for Felicia Day's memoir You're Never Weird on the Internet who also describes this "social revolution" for introverts in a way that resonated with me completely).So in case it isn't obvious by now, I loved this book and I think everyone should read it, young/old, guy/girl, married/single.
One firm takeaway from all our interviews with women is that most dudes out there are straight-up bozos. My introduction to modern romance was abrupt and unexpected. I was back in New York for the holidays, drinking with a few friends, sipping and gulping the wonderful IPAs that I miss when I’m here in Spain. Sometime deep into the night, one of my friends, who is a gay man—this is relevant to the story; you should also know that I’m a straight guy—asked if anyone wanted to go on his Tinder. “I
Aziz contrasts this with what he calls the “good enough” marriages of yesteryears—finding a partner that satisfies some basic criteria, like having a job and a shiny pocket watchI myself have noticed this shift from studying anthropology and history.
But the rest of my generation disagrees, apparently, so now I’m left to rummage through apps.)Connected to this rise in the “soul mate” marriage is a rise in our preoccupation with romantic love.
Take the time to get to know people; seldom do you see the more interesting side of someone’s personality on a first date.As you can see, this book is quite a rare hybrid: part social science, and part self-help, and part comedy.
Instagram || Twitter || Facebook || Amazon || PinterestThere are a lot of books that I am interested in reading but don't really get around to unless the book is selected by a book club or for a buddy read. This is because sites like Amazon and Goodreads have made the whole prospect of choosing a book so stressful. Up-and-coming books, out-of-print books, esoteric books from small presses - there are so many options. Before Goodreads, I would select books based on the cover, the synopsis on the
Digital dating might help us find people, but it also makes us less willing to stay with people, and can enable us to cheat or indulge in flaky behavior like text breakups or flimsy plans.I was expecting this to be a dating memoir, so you could cover me shocked when I found out that one of my favorite male comedians was writing a semi-scientific book about dating habits in the modern age (hence the title), with a focus group he created, information gleaned from a subreddit set up by him, and many, many studies cited from actual sociologists and psychologists, and literature I'm actually acquainted with, such as Barry Schwartz'z PARADOX OF CHOICE and Sheena Iyengar's THE ART OF CHOOSING (both must-reads, even if you're not a psych major).
It also made for a few very entertaining stories about how painful it is to meet new people when you are a mostly introverted person who has a weird tendency to speak your mind and doesn’t really care what people think.Here is a list of things I learned/experienced on various OkCupid email exchanges and dates – most of which are touched upon in the book:-Being ghosted by someone because they found a random detail on your profile that is an arbitrary deal-breaker for them is a frequent and always puzzling occurrence.
49) – esta é uma das várias premissas – entre muitas outras - que são discutidas e debatidas em ”O Amor nos Tempos Modernos”.As novas tecnologias acrescentaram inúmeras subtilezas ao dilema de se convidar uma pessoa que mal se conhece para um encontro romântico.
265) – e muito mais -; ”O Amor nos Tempos Modernos” discorre de uma forma irreverente, descontraída e cheia de humor – com recurso a várias pesquisas e estudos científicos – sobre as relações amorosas na actualidade, num período em que ”O advento dos smartphones e da Internet fez com que as nossas vidas românticas passassem a habitar em dois mundos: o real e o telefónico.
290)No início de ”O Amor nos Tempos Modernos” Aziz Ansari escreve: "Eh pá, obrigado por ter comprado o meu livro!
This is not that type of book at all.Aziz was interested in how dating works these days and decided to team up with a proper social scientist to do some research.
The new research that Aziz and Eric Kbinenberg did was mainly anecdotal, consisting of focus groups and online questionnaires, but it still gave fascinating data and resulted in a lot of thought.
It all made for a different mix of anecdotes, researched social science and Aziz being a goofy ding dong through the whole book.I guess that mix would piss off some readers.
It really is intended for a casual audience, but one that still likes data and research.
Another thing that pissed me off, and this is a biggy, that Ansari chose to not include LGBT community in his book.
His reason behind the choise was that it's a whole another thing and he could write a whole another book about the community.
That different aspects of dating apply to this group of people and he simply wouldn't be able to do justice.
LGBT is not a group of people from different species!
What is the reason LGBT got excluded?
His reasons for exclusion of LGBT community applies more to Amish people, not LGBT.
So, when I heard that Ansari had written a book with a renowned sociologist about love and romance?
Ansari spent a year traveling the globe, polling and questioning people about love and romance from a wide swath of age ranges.
Though I'll admit that many nonfiction books can end up being an endless fact slog, Ansari makes esoteric sociological jargon accessible through his illustrative, and often humorous, explanations.
You'll not be disappointed if you are a fan of Ansari's humour, and the nigh-ubiquitous subject matter makes it an easy recommendation for your struggling single 20-something friend and your middle-aged parent.
Os Novos Ménages à TroisNos tempos que correm, os relacionamentos são triângulos amorosos , em que o vértice é um objecto inanimado que varia de acordo com as preferências: Smartphone, Tablet , Laptop... ele está lá sempre, fiel e pronto a servir!Apitando, teclando, tocando, falando, vibrando ... ele é o Cupido e o Escravo imprescindível das relações amorosas atuais.Tem Vantagens? Bastantes! ;)Desvantagens? Algumas!...Numa abordagem plena de humor, Aziz Ansari mostra-nos como as novas tecnologias revolucionaram os relacionamen-tos , e em certas passagens chegamos a sentir que há um espelho indiscreto mesmo ali...bem à nossa frente ;)
