https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/10369932-the-eleventh-plague
you can make links to things that have nothing whatsoever to do with your review (you should click that - halfway through, your heart is going to melt and it will not stop melting until the end)but this book did not inspire any of that in me.it is a pretty uninspired post-apoc.
i would like to read the book that takes place after this one (view spoiler)[but not his story - i want to know what happens with her - scouting the wasteland and seeing what she sees (hide spoiler)]and i am all for instilling a sense of independence in the teen audience and i understand that it is very important to make decisions that are right for every individual, but seriously?
But when Stephen is left on his own, he discovers a community that has some semblance of what the world was like before the war.I think the thing that made this novel so realistic to me was that the kids were still kids, at least in Settler's Landing.
And since the adults in this novel were all young adults themselves when the plague hit, they want their children to have that same sense of normalcy, no matter how short-lived it may be.Kudos to Mr. Hirsch.
But the actual story is more like the aftermath of an insinuated plague, involving a fifteen year old boy roaming alongside his father and grandfather as scavengers, until some difficult circumstances come to pass.
Don't get me wrong, it's well-written in spurts, and I finished it in an afternoon, but sadly it felt very lacking when juxtaposed to books in its same genre, alongside some progressions which I found difficult to believe in the world that was built.
It seemed like it could've been developed a bit more.The story centers on Stephen Quinn, a boy making his way through civilization with his father and Grandfather.
A fast read that's best suited for younger teens looking for a post-apocalyptic world setting.The characters are young and act like it.
That things were dire and life was hard, and playing pranks or acting out weren't going to get you anywhere.For the most part Stephen was a good leading character.
I understand she had a hard life, but the way she was written made her bratty and insolent.Overall, it wasn't great, but it was readable and made you think about what you would do if faced with a similar situation.
I've read better post-apocalyptic books, but this works for younger teens since it has less gore.
The most interesting characters were dead and in a coma the entire time.
The love story was totally forced, the characters completely hollow, and it didn't make any sense.
I have no idea who these characters are, how old they are, or anything else.
They acted like they were six years old, then they were fighting and in war like they were in their twenties, only to start acting like winy teenagers.
None of this made any sense, and I'm very disappointed.
I'd wanted to read this book for a long time and when I finally did I was horribly disappointed.
Seriously, go read Cormac McCarthy's The Road and skip this one.
(Definition of “buddy reading” with my son: He takes a week or two to read the book, then goes to school and takes a quiz (Sidenote: I’m buddy reading the Truman Award Nominees with him – if he reads 4 or more he gets some kind of reward, if he reads all 12 he gets to party like it’s 1999.
The kid says “it was more good than it was bad and it was pretty short so if you need to read Truman Books, I’d pick this one”.
Why do I love these post-apocalyptic books so much?
I love zombies.
This book doesn't have zombies but the world is in ruins after a world war and killer flu virus called P11, the Eleventh Plague.
Stephen and his dad and grandpa have been surviving as salvagers, traversing the US from South to North and back again, collecting anything they can sell at the big camps in Canada and Florida.
It turns out these people are from a place called Settlers' Landing where they have created a sanctuary of pre-Collapse America.
I kind of had higher hopes from this book.
I read The Darkest Path by Jeff Hirsch and liked it, but it was also very average to me.
That's what this book was like.
I wouldn't re-read it.
I don't think I'd necessarily recommend it, either, unless someone is looking for a very specific criteria that this book fits.It had the opportunity to be a really great book with the dystopian plotline it put out, but it didn't seem to quite get there.
I didn't particularly enjoy reading this book.
It was okay, but I didn't like the main characters or the love plot.
The female protagonist, Jenny...I really did not like her.
I felt like the characters weren't very well developed.
MEEEEEEH!
Stephen and his father are taken in by the small subsistence community of Settler’s Landing, but he knows from the start that he’s not completely welcome.Dan Bittner’s narration of The Eleventh Plague by Jeff Hirsch, while not enough to make him a must listen narrator for me, is solid, well-done, and a certain boon to the book itself.
I don't like to make comparisons to other books, it's hard to do it well and people always squawk about it if the book compared is one they either love or hate, but Stephen, the main character reminds me a lot of Katniss from the Hunger Games.
His family are scavengers, think of the dead and rotting world in movies like Mad Max or Logan's Run and you wouldn't be far off.
Probably one of the best post-apocalyptic books I've read in a while(: Reminds me of the show "Revolution," you should check them both out!
The Eleventh Plague takes place in the not too distant future where an unsteady global economy and diplomatic breakdowns with China caused a world war that unleashed nuclear weapons and genetically engineered plagues that basically destroyed the entire social and political structure of the United States.
The world that Jeff Hirsch creates is so terrifying that when Stephen meets people from Settler's Landing, a gated community like so many others we've seen, the simple act of helping a stranger seems completely foreign to him.
I loved the contrast between the brutal world of the first half of the book and the insulated suburban society of Settler's Landing.
By that I mean, I’ve already forgotten most of it.Stephen Quinn and his father are salvagers in a desolate world, and they have just had to bury Stephen’s grandfather.
The two end up in a village that has tried its hardest to recreate the world pre-apocalypse.So what does that mean?We get a huge chunk of this post-apocalyptic book taking place in a pretty everyday setting.
Stephen plays more baseball with his friends.
Stephen goes to school some more.What was I reading?!Okay, I get it.
I’m not trying to argue that a place like this couldn’t exist in a post-apocalyptic world.
Free audio book download week of June 14 - June 20 - http://www.audiobooksync.com/ (Good in US/Can/Mexico)I listened to the audio book and perhaps my enjoyment of this book was marred by a "meh" reader.
The Eleventh Plague is the story of what happens after a flu strain kills most of the population.
It was an OK story for me.
Perhaps I am just reading and listening to way too many dystopian/post apocalyptic books that this one did not stand out for me.
When my son finishes listening to this, I'll add his thoughts as I think it is geared more to kids his age.
If you're considering reading this because you think it'll be a high action survival story about an epidemic, walk away now.
And yet....it's neither high action OR about an epidemic.
Most of the book isn't even about survival!
What bothered me most is that the inciting incident promised on the back cover didn't happen until I was about 60% through.
Ugh. It wasn't poorly written though—actually there were quite a few quotable lines—and there were some really great scenes that made some very important critiques on society.
So overall, it wasn't a BAD read per-say....I just found it slow and predictable with a lot of poorly fulfilled promises.
The book was ok. The title is a bit misleading because its actually set after the plague, not during it. The ending isn't satisfying special or cool in any way. I finished the book saying "meh". I'm also not a big fan of post apocalyptical books so if you like that kind of stuff, you will probably like this.
Stephen, our main character, has never known what the real world was like because he was born 5 years after the virus the Chinese dropped on the US during war, P11, that took out majority of the population.
Settler’s Landing is what his father has always hoped the world could go back to and a place that his grandfather told him never to wish for.
Violet was the town nurse and would take in anyone and tried to make things the best that she could given what she was dealt with.
Honestly, I decided to read it because The Hunger Games author, Suzanne Collins is quoted on the book jacket as saying, "The Eleventh Plague hits disturbingly close to home...An excellent, taut debut novel." If you've read The Hungers Games then you know that Collins is no-joke when it comes to the harsh realities of what our world would be like if it was destroyed by disasters of nature and mankind.
While Hirsch's world isn't as disturbing (no televised fights to the death between children), you will find yourself in an America you recognize.This time, the US has been decimated by a deadly sickness known as "the Eleventh Plague," and the country is a barren wasteland.
It is up to Stephen to keep his father and himself safe and try to find shelter.
Both books are about a father and son in a ravaged land trying to survive.
But, whereas The Road is about the father and his relationship and great love for the kid, The Eleventh Plague is about the son, the way he has grown up in this ravaged world and his hope for a semblance of a family and a future.
Although the author does give you a lot of information about the United States, the war, what has been happening, I can’t help but feel it was half formed.
It ranks high up there with any of the dystopia/end of the world because of a virus or zombies books.
This one did not have zombies featured, instead a virus known as P11(Eleventh Plague) took most of the worlds population with the exception of a few as you usually see in these stories.You see things from a teenager's point of view, in this book.
Through his trails, losing his family, learning how to live without them in this harsh and cruel world.
Who to trust, who not, when to act, when not ect..From being born into this world, and trying to survive along with his father, to becoming a father himself.I highly recommend this for anyone!
***SPOILER ALERT***I did not enjoy this book.
It had the potential to be a great dystopian novel, but it just wasn't.Stephen and his dad are alone after his grandfather dies from the plague.
His father dies, too.
Stephen then meets a rebel girl whom everybody dislikes and of course has to fall in love with her, and then, of course they have to do something stupid and end up as social outcasts, because that is just what happens in a book as predictable as this one.
I would not recommend this book.
This book is great for anyone who loves horror stories. The book is about a plague that sweeps across America and kills almost everyone. The book also has many fights. For example, the most intense fight is when the town of Settlers Landing and the Henrys have a battle. The book also has many sad moments. A very sad moment in the book is when the main character’s dad dies. I would give this book a 10 out of 10 because I love books that are action-packed.
It was good
Honestly, I like hear more about how the apocalypse happened but it was mostly about his life.
Another reason I gave this book a good rating is because i always wanted to read on.
I also enjoyed this book because Stephen was thelling the story.
Since I am around the same age as Stephen his thoughts about what was happening to him were very similar to what I think I would feel in his situation.
Being able to relate to the character in a book always makes it more interesting.
I would especially reccomend it to a teenager because they will be able to relate to the story more than any one else
Throughout the story, his grandfather passed away, leaving him many lessons that would come in handy later in life.
When they arrive at their destination known as “Settler’s Landing,” his father dies.
The prank does not just include him and his friends, but it includes people from rival areas, including slavers.
It was very touching when Stephen and his comatic father met some of the members of the “Settler’s Landing.” I would definitely recommend this book to others my age because of the uniqueness of the story as well as the exciting and suspenseful events throughout the book.
Stephen is an alien to this strange new world and struggles to fit in while his father recovers - but while everything looks happy on the outside, he knows that like everyone everywhere else, these people are still ruled by fear.
Some settlers inherently distrust outsiders like Stephen and think he's a spy - and then when trouble really comes on the heels of a harmless prank, Stephen must decide what kind of life he wants, and what he's willing to fight for.I read a great review for this book that compared The Eleventh Plague to the (sadly canceled) TV show Jericho - and now having read the book, I can completely agree with that comparison.
Jackson GodinSeptember Book Plug8CSeptember 30, 2018The book, The Eleventh Plague, is a realistic fiction novel by Hirsch Jeff.
The story is about fifteen-year old Stephen Quinn and his father.
Stephen and his dad try to resume the scavenging trail that their now deceased grandpa has made them travel on since before Stephen was even born.
Everything went to chaos and has been like that for over 15 years now.
I rate this book a 4 out of 5 stars because it is a really great book.
If you want to see if my rating is true and you like adventures and lots of action, then you may want to read this book.
Korrektül megírt világvége sztori, de semmi extra.
