https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/808400.Too_Loud_Lily
Sofie, (2002)Too Loud Lily, Omnibus books, Gosford, NSW.What a humorous little book, a book that many would relate to.
A little hippo with lots of character, and full of joy.The flow of this book just made me want to pick it up again and read it to those around me.
The flow of the story is full of tones and pace that it is a book that I look forward to reading this book many times in my classes to come.
An awesome story line and an exciting little book that I think many children will enjoy this greatly in the future.
Lily Hippo was way too loud! Finally when a new teacher comes to her school she finds a place to use her loudness. This could be a good book to use when talking about loudness and when there is a time for it. Also would be good to relate text to self.
This book was really funny! The Hippo was being too loud and everyone was saying she was too loud. when she was in school also thought she was loud. The best part of the story was when she went to the play and did her best, everyone LOVED it!
I liked the end because I liked the end of the show.
We loved loud Lily!
Miss Loopiola Allows Lily t o be loud in the class, and Lily loves it.
The main character lily played the roll of self verses others in the conflict in the story.The age range for this book is from nursery, to primary.
I also say primary because this is a good starter book for children learning to read.
In this book it also allows the children to use their imagination, showing pictures with no words.
I gave it a four star rating and not a five because I believe that it could use more bright colors like the colors on the cover.
Everyone constantly telling Lily to be quiet almost changed who she was.
All it took for Lily to embrace who she was, was on person believing in her and accepting her for all she was.Theme - Everyone is different and every person has their own talents.
There’s nothing wrong with being different and there is always a way you can use your talents to express yourself.
This story really helps to express to children that it is okay to be different and there is always a purpose for their gifts.Why I recommend this book - I loved this book because it had few words but great illustrations.
People around her are upset, until a new teacher comes to Lily’s school and ask her to be in a school play where she can use her special talent.This is a great book for teaching quiet and loud voices.
While reading the book, the teacher can talk about others’ feelings and perspectives-how people feel about loud voices, and consequences of actions—what will happen if we speak too loud sometimes.
While reading the book, teacher might use extremely quiet and loud voices to show the kids the strong contract of these two words.
Too Loud Lily is a very intriguing and very nice book for students to realize when they feel that they are being judged.
Lily is a bigger animal and she believes that she has friends, until they don't really enjoy talking to her, because she can get too loud.
At this point, then she realizes that she needs to change and make a difference for those around her, but that isn't without the help of her new teacher that comes in.
Her new teacher introduces her and talks to her about the play that will be coming up and immediately that is something that interests Lily.
No matter how hard she tries to be quiet, poor Lily Hippo is too loud.
However, Lily's tendency to be loud is embraced by all when she performs in the school play.
This book is great for teaching a number of different concepts: 1) what it means to be loud, 2) there is a time and a place for certain behaviors, and 3) how can we respond when someone around us is behaving inappropriately?
Children can take turns acting out what it means to be loud and quiet, and can talk about appropriate contexts for being quiet and loud.
I love the concept of this book.
Lily is loud and is always being told to quiet down, until she finds her calling.
The moral behind this story is that even though something a person is good at may be a hindrance to some people, it can be a pleasure to others.
Lily had the knack for drama and once she found something she did well her self-esteem began to rise.
This book would be good to get children to relate the book to an experience in their life.
The illustrations in this book are colorful and pertain to the story line.
This book was a good read because at the beginning of the story everyone told Lily she was too loud. Lily always tried to be more quiet to please everyone but she could never do so. Lily's friends and family always told her she was too loud. She got a new teacher that let her be as loud as she could be and she loved her. She loved her new teacher because she let her be loud and some times she said she still was not loud enough.
Lily is a fun-loving, little pig who loses a lot of her spunk when she is constantly told to quiet down. Lily soon finds a niche in her school's drama program that allows her to be as loud as she wants. This story would be a great tool to use when teaching children the appropriate times and places for certain behaviors, e.g., using our outside voices. Lily teaches us all that everyone has a place in this world, no matter how loud or quiet they might be!
Lily is a very loud and expressive little girl. Everytime she starts to sing Lily is told she is too loud. She is always getting into trouble because she is to loud. Lily has to learn there is a time and place for everything. Finally Lily is aloud to express herself in a school play, and she can be as loud as she wants. This is a good book to help teach students it is okay to express themseves, bit there is a time and place for it. Ages k-3rd.
Too loud Lily is a good book for a teacher with the awkward kid in class. Maybe they can't sit still or do anything gracefully. It's also good for the other students to read to learn patience and acceptence. Everyone has his or her own set of talents and skills, and they don't always look alike. Sometimes they don't even look inviting. However, as teachers we must decide how to put those students' strenghts into action. I would read this to K-2.
Some cute pictures and the story is alright, but I'm not sure what we were supposed to get out of it: There is a time and a place to be loud? Weaknesses can be strengths in the right circumstances? Teachers are more supportive than family? Or maybe it's JUST a story that loud kids can relate to--you'd think I'd be able to relate then--it just didn't strike any resonate chords.
This book is about a hippo who loves to be loud. She goes through many troubles throughout her homelife and school because she is always loud. However, things all changed and turned around for Lily when she entered into the school play. I liked this book because it shows kids to accept who you are and to honor the talents you have.
Lily is just too loud! In this story about a hippo who cannot seem to keep quiet, Lily starts out feeling like she does not fit in. After meeting the equally loud drama teacher who encourages Lily to be louder and louder on stage, Lily finds something that she is good at doing, without having to be quiet. A great book that will reach out to children who don't feel accepted.
This is cute story about a Hippo named Lily who couldn't find her place because she was so loud. She finally found her calling in acting and found a place to belong. This is a great book to show children how we all have different talents and characteristics, but we are all one in the same. This story would be cute for a younger crowd of children.
Lily is too loud. That is what she has always been told. Then Lily gets a new teacher who embraces her loudness. Lily is fortunate that someone understands her. This story teaches students in first or second grade to be who they are. They should not be afraid to incorporate who they are in their everyday activities and Lily reminds readers of that.
A warm and light hearted looking at being a bit different and the opportunities it presents. There is not too much substance in the plot, dwelling a bit too much on Lily's "problem" but all in all a fun read.
Lily seems to have trouble fitting in with her classmates and friends. She's a loud, boisterous hippopotamus who makes a ruckus everywhere she goes. When the new music teacher comes along, Lily finds her place in the school.
In this book, Lilly shows us that its okay to be different. She also shows us that you can learn to be proud of your own uniqueness. I think its a great book for teaching acceptance, not just of yourself but of others.
I really enjoyed this book. It is about finding yourself and not being afriad to be your own person. It is about finding your calling and being happy with who you are. Many children can relate to this book.
Too loud Lily is a great book to use on the first day of school. It great to use when talking about the proper levels of our voices. This can be a great call and response also. Teacher:Too loud Lily Students:Shhhhhhh
I think that this book will be useful in the classroom. Students who are afraid to be themselves could help realize like Lily that she did get to fit even though she was too loud lots of places. She found out she could be herself when she got to play the part in the play.
I feel like too loud Lily sometimes and I am sure other children do too. This is a great book to show children that there is a place in this world for everyone! Bright pictures; sure to bring some giggles.
Pretty adorable. Lily the Hippo is always told she's too loud until she finds the drama teacher and school play. Very sweet, colorful illustration (a hippo in red lipstick!) and the number-of-words-per-illustration is perfect for a three-year-old.
I never read "Too Loud Lily" as a kid, but I laughed out loud reading it as an adult. The storyline of this young hippo who's loudness causes problems in school, finally finds her passion in drama. The illustrations are what makes the book so comical.
Too Loud Lily is a great book to introduce volume levels in the classroom. I also think it shows students that they will find where they belong and what groups will be best for them. If nothing else this is a very humorous child's book.
