https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/36262305-indemnity-only
Mini-Review  What can you say about VI Warshawski? She's hilarious... and someone you'd want to know in real life. She's got a nice chip on her shoulder, but it becomes endearing. And she takes risks. This was a great debut novel for the series and I loved when it became the focus for a movie. I stopped reading this series about 8 to 10 years ago when I was all caught up... but I think I have a few to get back to. Tough crime novel. Good characters. A definite good read!  About Me  For those n
Mini-Review
and someone you'd want to know in real life.
This was a great debut novel for the series and I loved when it became the focus for a movie.
I stopped reading this series about 8 to 10 years ago when I was all caught up...
A definite good read!
For those new to me or my reviews...
here's the scoop: I read A LOT.
I write A LOT.
And now I blog A LOT.
Leave a comment and let me know what you think.
Thanks for stopping by.
Many thanks to their original creators.
Thanks largely to the efforts of Paretsky and Grafton, there are any number of hard-boiled female investigators out there, and so reading a book like this is no longer nearly as eye-opening and exciting as it was back then.As the story opens, a mysterious client insists on a late night meeting with V.I., assuming that she is a male.
This book would launch a long series of novels featuring Warshawski; both she and her creator were true trailblazers in the world of crime fiction, and the fact that the world has caught up with V.
Many years ago I dipped into a Sara Paretsky book.
I don't even remember which one it was but I did not finish it because I disliked the main character so much.
This particular book is quite old now and it has a lot of charm just because of its style and its setting.
And I found I did not dislike her so much anymore, in fact she is a rather smart and certainly tough lady.
The story was good, lots of action, some suspense, a satisfying ending.
So three stars from me and a promise to read book 2 fairly soon.
This means that Warshawski usually winds up at odds with everyone, from the people she’s against to her clients, and sometimes even to those in her inner circle.
Warshawski never out-and-out says this, but there’s a certain fatalistic air to the novels that makes me feel that way.Why read them, then?
Things are gritty in it, yes, but Vic hasn’t yet reached that level of fatalism that darkens the later books.
And hell, one of Warshawski’s clients actually doesn’t turn on her!So, if you’re a fan and like me, haven’t read this book, by all means pick it up and celebrate V.I. Warshawski’s thirtieth anniversary in style.
Though VI wants to prove herself as strong and tough as any man out there, she keeps having run ins with a bunch of people who mean to do her harm which starts to put a damper on her and her potential love interest.I liked the writing, but thought at times that Paretsky got a bit repetitive.
After a while I wondered how the heck she was still standing since when I drink whiskey I start thinking naps are a good idea.This first book was kind of all over the place a bit I thought.
In response, he recommended that I read Sara Paretsky’s V.I. Warshawski novels, saying that if Grafton was “there” on the spectrum of feminist writers then Paretsky was way over “here.”I’m not sure by what scale he was measuring because I didn’t find Paretsky’s Indemnity Only to be particularly more feminist than any of Grafton’s novels.
I think Paretsky intended for that relationship to demonstrate Vic’s casual attitude toward sex, which is all well and good, but why would Vic even have casual sex with a man who so obviously thought that a lady couldn’t be a private investigator for realsies?
Pretty early on in this book, my husband remarked that Kathleen Turner played the role of V.I. Warshawski in a movie of the same name.
I think that's why I liked the book a little more than maybe I should have.
I'm no stranger to mysteries and detective stories and they tend to run along the same vein- a tough, smart, loner who gets in over their head with a doozy of a murder usually is what gives the story a pulse.
From Vic's naive fling, to the resilient and steady clinic doctor and best pal, to all friend and foe in between, Paretsky sketches characters that are interesting and realistic.
Totally within the (small, exclusive) pantheon of Sue Grafton's Kinsey Millhone and Marcia Muller's Sharon McCone. Can a pantheon be small and exclusive? Sure it can. I just said so.Chicago, big unions, big banks along-side small inner city clinics and a public defender turn PI. And V.I. Warshawski drives a Monza... that's a Chevy that they don't make anymore for good reason. It's what my father bought used for my oldest sister with the plan that all five of his daughters would drive it in their turn. And it almost made it.
A steady debut novel in which we meet V.I. Warshawski, a female P.I., who sets out to handle her first case dealing with rich people and (you guessed it) . . . treachery!The clue trails are solid, the characters are well developed and the pacing is a tad slow at times.That said, this novel was written in the 80s when pacing wasn't as big as it is now. OVERALL GRADE: B
But everything about the case she is given is a lie - her client's name, the missing girl's name, and the fact of a murder having been committed a few days before is concealed from her.
It doesn't hurt having had a cop father who, although dead, has given her police contacts, but she relies on herself 99.9% of the time.
The way her client brought Warshawski into the case was not believable on any level, but I got past that.
3  stars. Typical PI mystery series told in first person. Slightly above average.VI is a female private investigator. She is often short on money to pay her bills. A few times I thought I have no idea what I would do if I were the investigator. Then VI did something, and I was impressed. She is tough physically. For example, a bad guy has a gun, she jumps him, breaks his arm, rolls to the floor, and grabs the gun. The result is some good investigating ideas and some pretty good action scenes.The
Typical PI mystery series told in first person.
The result is some good investigating ideas and some pretty good action scenes.There were two sex scenes referred to, no details.
It might not have bothered me as much in the physical book.
This should be ok when reading the physical book.
But it was jarring as an audiobook when the narrator read those lines.
A different narrator with a softer voice might have been better.THE SERIES:This is the first book in the VI Warshawski series.
So far there are 15 books in the series.DATA:Narrative mode: 1st person VI Warshawski.
She’s got a real smart mouth, which makes for amusing repartee for the reader to enjoy, and attitude.According to the blurb, Kathleen Turner played her in a movie.
I must try to find that sometime…But right now I’m going to copy the book blurb:Hired to track down a missing woman named Anita, V.I. instead discovers the dead body of Anita’s boyfriend, the radical son of a wealthy banker.
When the banker himself is killed a few days later, V.I. knows she’s onto something very big – and very dangerous.It was lots of fun to read.
This is one of those series of mystery books I'd heard about for ages but never read until now.
So I started with the first novel in the series, "Indemnity Only".
I. Warshawski character back when it was released more than 20 years ago.
As for the real Vic Warshawski, Sara Paretsky's creation, I enjoyed the tough-yet-feminine character whose quirks were believable rather than annoying.
The story of corruption overlapping the corporate and union worlds was interesting and the characters in addition to Warshawski became people I cared about.
I can see why the series as a whole is popular.
Female detective: nothing wrong with that. Tough, okay. Set in Chicago, which iskind of intriguing since our son had lived there for a few years. It is kind of fun to visualize parts of the city as described in the book. Of course the story has Chicago mobsters and union thugs (sometimes one and the same). Pretty good pacing of the plot, and enough hints to be able to make a few guesses whodunit. May read at least one more in the series.
I slogged through most of this without much enjoyment at all, but it did manage to pull out an interesting ending. The vast majority of it, both plot and characters, just had no ring of truth.
As I drove south along Lake Michigan, I could smell rotting alewives like a faint perfume on the heavy air."I had read several V.I. Warshawski novels many years ago and quite liked them at the time so I was happy to find the first book in the series, Sara Paretsky's Indemnity Only (1982).
Immediately I felt a strong emotional connection with the Chicago setting as it was precisely the year the novel was published that I came to this country from the then martial-law Poland and I lived for a short period of time just a few blocks away from V.I. Warshawski's office.
This book was first released in 1982, and it certainly feels like it belongs to a more innocent and technologically-challenged era. Still, V.I. Warshawski deserves a place in the Parnassos of mouthy detectives and empowered women. I had a lot of fun reading it, laughing out loud several times in the middle of the street. There is no higher praise for a book.
2012 marks the 30 year anniversary of the first publication of Sara Paretsky's debut novel and after listening to the BBC World Book Club program where she was the guest I decided to pick it up.
It's clear of course that she is rooting for the little guy, just as Paretsky is, and it's no surprise that it's the working class characters who are the more sympathetic ones, but Warshawski isn't blindly prejudiced and justice and truth are her goals every step of the way.
In this novel, violence causes real injury, crime bosses are a good blend of evil and humanity, and the central mystery grows through time, until good timing reveals it.Strong narration, a determined female protagonist, good friendships and a clever mystery make this a fun first book in the series.
Indemnity Only is a smooth fast read, balancing feminine interests with tough determination and risk, well-timed asides, an omnipresent fascination with the Cubs, and a clever crime to be solved.Disclosure: My husband buys good books for me.
For younger readers, V.I. Warshawski may seem too defensive, perhaps too over-the-top in proving herself with the men she encounters in her life, her approach a little dated - but at the point in time when this series was written I suspect this was a fresh, groundbreaking departure.
I notice this criticism in reviews of books in the V.I. Warshawski series - and it makes me thankful that perhaps this is a sign that progress has been made.
I'm sure women who lived and worked in the 1980s and 1990s will agree that Warshawski speaks to many the internal, interpersonal and workplace struggles of women during those decades.
The first in her apparently very successful series of V.I. Warshawski stories, this freshman outing—pre-sophomoric; don't freshmen write too?—is good enough in terms of plot that I read it through.
But the writing (style, characters, dialogue, etc.) is so freshman-like that I found myself longing for a cliché or two—not the comic-book kind you expect from immature writing but the imaginative and often ingenious kind you find in a Raymond Chandler novel.
Didn't Sara Paretsky ever read Chandler?
I have to think that Paretsky just timed her arrival on the scene well, introducing a hardboiled female dick, so to speak, before anyone else had thought to do so.
V.I Warshwski is a great character. She's a tough as nails feminist, who manages to navigate the tough Chicago underworld believably. In the hands of a lesser writer she may be "sassy" or fall into the trap of many female detectives, being rescued by a man. The male characters aren't stupid or easily dismissed, which only highlights Vic's strengths and general badassededness. Well written, and weirdly engaging for a book about fraudulent insurance claims. I'll definitely read more in the series.
I have read many other Paretsky books because I just love the Chicago connection. I had never before read this, the first book in the V.I.Warchoski series. I liked it, and it did fill in some background that leads to the other books in the series. Without trying to spoil anyone's interest, I do find the books 'predictable', but, still, I read them because of the totally accurate descriptions of the Chicago neighborhoods.
Paretsky's first V.I. Warshawski mystery. Overall, an entertaining book. There were a few cliches here and there that seemed a little too noticeable to me (but maybe weren't cliches when she wrote them). As the series has gone on, it has improved in quality. Paretsky is better than a lot of mystery writers. It's interesting to see where she started.
Good introduction to V.I. Warshawski, Private Investigator. Novel brings a feminist perspective to the hard-boiled Private Eye genre.
I wonder how heavily these themes figure into other books of the series.The case itself - which involves unions in Chicago, insurance fraud, a dead college student, his missing girlfriend, and the family life of a fourteen-year-old girl - is complex and compelling enough that I didn't want to put the book down for too long.
I liked the fast pace of the writing, the details about Chicago (a city I have yet to visit), and V.I.'s strength and confidence in the face of the dangerous men who threaten her life and the lives of other people she cares about.
In this first book she undertakes a case with a dead college student, a missing young woman, an obstreperous parent or two, an insurance company, and a very old-fashioned union.
Actually, the Knifegrinders are so old school that in these days of powerless unions and a general sense that workers should get no input into their working conditions, I find it hard to believe such power and corruption existed, even though I know it did.
Corporate corruption hasn't budged at all, so that was easier to relate to.
You are, in traditional PI fashion, dropped into a world where the detective has been doing this a while, no cozy she's-struggling-to-set-up-her-business-and -has-a-knack here.
The first of the V.I. Warshawski novels launches the series with energy and strength and wit. Warshawski is a strong woman in her native Chicago, navigating relationships within the police force where her father used to work, using her connections at the University of Chicago and the city's feminist movement. It's nice to read a private investigator mystery that happens in Chicago rather than New York of L.A. Susan Ericksen's reading for the audiobook is at it's best when the characters aren't yelling--too bad the yelling comes off as loud rather than ferocious.
No ha estado mal.
Good mystery!Good murder mystery written in a matter-of-fact gumshoe style. I like the heroine and plan to continue the series. I think anyone who likes the Sue Grafton books will like these as well.
