https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/585707.The_Americans
First published in 1959, The Americans captures the nation at its plainest moments.
Following Walker Evans, the FSA photographer who documented the Great Depression's effects upon small town life, Robert Frank took interest in the painfully ordinary: his collection consists of several black-and-white photographs of mundane scenes, bleak landscapes, and harsh portraits.
Frank's strenuous emphasis upon the simple makes each of his photos appear a bit lackluster when viewed individually, while it also lends his work as a whole an electrifying sense of severity and directness.
Viewed in sequence, Frank's barren photos express a great deal more than they at first seem capable of doing.
This is one of my favorite pics from Robert Frank's collection of photos in his classic "The Americans." It's a beautiful chronicle of America in 1955-1956. It's obvious that Frank liked capturing faces, expressions, moods. The introduction was written by Jack Kerouac, where he romanticizes about the American road, as seen through Frank's lens. There are so many great pics, "Drug store-Detroit" being another of my favorites. The one above is titled, "Barber shop through screen door - McClellanv
This is one of my favorite pics from Robert Frank's collection of photos in his classic "The Americans." It's a beautiful chronicle of America in 1955-1956.
The one above is titled, "Barber shop through screen door - McClellanville, South Carolina." I love pictures that have a lot of layers, and here you can see the photographer, what is behind him, and what is in front of him.
Here's another one I like, with the little baby, the towering jukebox, the empty room, and light streaming in from the windows...titled "Café in Beaufort, South Carolina":
To quote Kerouac from his intro, "To Robert Frank I now give this message: You got eyes."These are wonderful timeless images. A classic work to be savored.
Excellent photographs by Frank; shitty, pompous, self-indulgent introduction by Kerouac.
The American people were all looking forward to the release of the book, they thought it'd be pretty-pretty and it'd suck up to them, but no!
Out it came and people were offended by it.
They were offended because the eye of the outsider saw things which the Americans (not the book, the people) did not want shown.
Yes, 1950's hypocrisy in its most classic form.Well, the world has become quite different and it seems the Americans (the people) now quite appreciate the book.
Not surprising, for the pictures are brilliant, both in terms of technicality, look and concept.
Anybody dont like potry go home see Television shots of big hatted cowboys being tolerated by kind horses.Robert Frank, Swiss, unobtrusive, nice, with that little camera that he raises and snaps with one hand he sucked a sad poem right out of America onto film, taking rank among the tragic poets of the world.To Robert Frank I now give this message: You got eyes.And I say: That little ole lonely elevator girl looking up sighing in an elevator full of blurred demons, what’s her name & address?”—Jack Kerouac, from his introduction to Robert Frank’s The AmericansWhen the term “period piece” is mentioned, certain works come to mind: John Steinbeck’s The Grapes of Wrath, F.
Robert Frank also filmed the documentary C*cksucker Blues, traveling with the Rolling Stones on their 1972 tour for "Exile on Main St." -- for which he also did the cover.
Equal parts debauchery and loneliness, Mick Jagger reportedly said "It's a f*cking good film, Robert, but if it shows in America we'll never be allowed in the country again." A subsequent legal battled ensued over it's release, and it can now be shown in very limited release: 5 times per year, and only with Frank present.
"...,coast of blue Pacific starry night - nobone half-banana moons sloping in the tangled night sky, the torments of great formations in mist, the huddled invisible insect in the car racing onward, illuminate..." writes Jack Kerouac in the introduction to this classic book of photographs by Robert Frank. This would be a five star book for that Kerouac introduction only but combined with Frank's pictures it is priceless.
If Helen's face launched a thousand ships, and if the Velvet Underground record launched a million garage bands, certainly Robert Frank's dense monograph is the photographic equivalent. Beautifully elegant images in a harsh, electrifying thematic vein.Read through it, see into it, read it through, and try not to weep.
The book is now an American icon.The United States publication of "The Americans" included an introduction by Frank's friend, Jack Kerouac, which had earlier been rejected by the French publisher.
The National Gallery of Art has also published an encyclopedic version of Frank's book, "Looking In" which is large and expensive and includes much material in addition to Frank's now iconic collection of 83 photographs.
His photographs capture the breadth of the United States, the difficulties of race relations, and the feelings of desolation, conformity, and tension, as people strive for financial security.I was fortunate to have the opportunity to see Frank's photographs themselves at the National Gallery.
It left me with a weird image of America and Americans!
3.5
The images in this book either didn't move me or left me so in love with the composition and infected story within its frame. As a whole, each image bleeds spontaneity and common appreciation of the details of living.
Robert Frank's first mission is to tell the story of the americans, and he does so by taking his photography into just about every environment and social group he can find.
He is everywhere, and like Bresson, his focus is not always on the technically perfect shot, but on the story, the feeling, the emotion.
The americans come together, come apart, as we turn these pages.
The introduction by Jack Kerouac echoes this photographic style, as he 'em dashes' out his many thoughts and impressions of America—and ends with saying "That little ole lonely elevator girl looking up sighing in an elevator full of blurred demons, what's her name & address?"
What intrigued me: I read an article in Time (I think? I was at a doctor's office and my Google-fu fails me) about elderly artists who are still active in the art community. Robert Frank was on the list. They referenced The Americans in the article and I wanted to take a look.What I liked: There were some truly striking pictures, but this is by far my favorite:What I didn't like: I didn't connect with all of the photographs, but that is of little consequence. Favorite quote: “What a poem this is...”
Beautiful images of the 50s in America and Jack Kerouac was the best person to write the introduction for this book. Many times I had On the road in mind while looking at these photographs. Very interesting perspectives of breaking the rules and focusing more on emotion, as opposed to Henri Cartier-Bresson's preferences for geometry. There's a lot to learn here.I only wish I had this book in a larger format to see the photographs bigger. I had to settle with whatever edition I found.
There must be some historical context here that I'm missing, but I don't think very much of these photos. Some of them are quite interesting, but perhaps because Robert Frank established this style of "street(?)" photography means that it seems ordinary, but actually was groundbreaking. I have no idea if that's the case. And the drivel introduction by Kerouac didn't help my understanding one bit. Actually, I couldn't get through the introduction. It was way too hip for me.Maybe I'll look back on this and be embarrassed by this review, but so it goes.
An all-time favorite book featuring the face of America from small towns to cities. Day and night. Years ago SFMOMA featured a Robert Frank exhibition with many of these photos, plus his the letters he wrote to friends and to get grants. Best of all was matching the photographer's notes on why certain images were selected (or not) as part of the story of America he wanted to tell with the image itself.
Kerouac wrote a wandering introduction (for better or worse), but really nailed Frank's work here in this single statement: "[Frank] sucked a sad poem right out of America onto film." I especially loved on the jukeboxes that found their way into Frank's framing of his travels across the country.
Un libro per street photographers.A me è piaciuto,tuttavia non sempre la bellezza dello scatto è a portata di tutti e prima di apprezzarlo bisogna studiare un minimo il genere.Un viaggio attraverso gli USA con un'occhio diverso,molto " on the road " (con tanto di introduzione di Kerouac).
Studied this in college - one of the classics of photographic literature.
I'd say skip the Kerouac intro and let the pictures speak for themselves...some pretty amazing snapshots of America from the 1950s.
WoW!
Having thumbed through this book in libraries, on occasion, over the last 20 years, I never really had much interest in Robert Frank.
During the same 20 year period, mentions of photography or of monographs frequently hearkened back to this book by Robert Frank.
After seeing one-too-many references to the book recently, I took the time to sit down with it and really look at the work.
pulling the moment into an object truth that even the subjects are probably oblivious to, just doesn't get old.The work is not over-rated.

A black & white photography book featuring people and places from almost every state (Salt Lake City was a shot of the front steps of the McCune Mansion.) Completed in 1956, it was interesting to think "this is what it was like when I was four-years old." Not posed in any way, it captures people mostly unaware and totally natural, shot from non-traditional (at the time) angles and perspective.
These images are surely the progenitors of modern photographic social commentary, and they are poignant and affecting, but I wasn’t wowed. I probably should try to appreciate them for their historical context, but that’s a drab, dull way to interact with art.Also, I did not appreciate Kerouac’s repetitive, pretentious foreward. Yes, yes - you make up words that sound like feelings. Aren’t you amazing?!
It's difficult to imagine the fascination with these images without considering context and era. We're seen many, many iterations of themes such as this, it's nice to acknowledge the first. Some excellent imagery and printing and so many beg for detailed study. The upshot is to master light. Which is all any of us strive to do as best we can.
If you care about photography -- even a little -- this is a MUST READ. And for good reason. So many of the photos are absolutely iconic but they also capture a tension in this country (between black and white, between rich and poor) that still simmers to this day. Beautiful photos that have had a huge influence on the photographers that came after.
This book was a joy to leaf through. In the times of endlessly scrolling through the Instagram ‘explore’ tab, it was a pleasure to only see one photograph per page and take each one in. I truly appreciate Robert Frank’s work sans filters and all.
