https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7956.Treason
While it has some flaws, it is a really fun adventure story of a young man discovering himself & his world.
It's a very cool concept that Card has come up with.
Part of the fun of the book is discovering this, so I won't say more in my review, except that it is a really interesting look at fanaticism & the evolution of societies.There is a lot of adventure & it is almost a fantasy, yet always shelved as SF.
Also reviewed as an audio book here:https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...Card says he writes his books to be read out loud & it works.
No, it's just a very good book & I rounded up this time because I found out a couple of things about Card over the years.This is his second novel, which makes this quite a feat.
There's nothing noble about scratching a living from the dirt & living in poverty, but the Peace Corps was an in thing back then & it was a counterpoint.Other problems & praise: (view spoiler)[ The idea that the various families would become the masters of their chosen professions was obviously a stretch, & a single language & that a starship would still be their goal after 3000 years was kind of silly.
This nice charming young man should be going on an adventure and marry a fairy princess at the end of the rainbow or something but as the plot would have it, Lanik is exiled from his kingdom and set on the path to uncover the conspiracy that enslave planet Treason.
The idea of the book is very original and the story pretty intriguing right up to the point where Lanik goes through a phase where he has to find his true self, accept destiny, make peace with family, save the world…all while having one mother of a Messiah complex.
Thus, outside of aspects of the universe that you haven't yet been introduced to, there is no way to surprise the reader.Luckily for Card, his strength lies in the ability to create detailed and interesting worlds to explore.
Lanik Mueller isn't important, but someone like him is.Unfortunately for us Lanik Meuller seems to operate with the our modern day moral structure and not his own.
Luckily, his early works tended to be short, not giving time for his characters to do much other than explore the world.So in summary, I liked it.
Between the ages of thirteen and eighteen, I read 22 of O.S. Card's sci-fi and fantasy novels (including the five that mirror The Book of Mormon without knowing it).
While Card’s plotlines do vary, unlike, say Clive Cussler (my favorite author during middle school), I grew to be aware of his deficiencies as a writer.
Also, as I got further into Card's oeuvre, I saw that as he got older, his stories became less and less exciting and his writing grew weaker.
And it wasn't very convincing at that.So. This novel, Treason, written early in Card's career, is his best.
It's exciting, imaginative, and, for Card, deep.
The story was cool, but right in the middle of the book, the plot ended and a new one started.
It should have been 2 books, the first and a sequel.
Also, it was really uninentionally funny, the extra arms and tits everywhere, and the way the main character would look at his breasts and feel maternal, hilarious.
The writing was terrible, cheesy, the characters flat, the special powers were played out like a geek who gets picked on at school wishing he could do THIS and THIS to his enemies.
Card's second published book, the one I read redone slightly in later years. I kept puzzling over the fact that it seemed familiar, then I realized, yes, I'd read it before. One scene had really stuck in my head, but the rest had dissolved away. Even so, it is a good fast read with some interesting 'families.' Glad I read it again.
Hace nada (20 añicos no son nada) le cayó un 9/10. creo que era la época de mi amor desinteresado por Card.
Wow. This may have been the most original fantasy/sci-fi story I have ever read!
It was a remarkable story about what could eventually happen when the scientific elites of an intergalactic government are exiled to a planet with limited resources away from the rest of humanity.
However, the crux of this tale is not driven by such political theater, but by the main protagonist, Lanik, and his coming of age through puberty.
This is a must read for any fantasy or sci-fi fan.
It really was a one of a kind Hero's Journey.
Excellent read.
And it's just really uncomfortable most of the time.In the beginning, they talk about how Lanik Mueller, the protagonist (I think), is a Rad and how Rads work, they bring up another fascinating point: hormones would likely change how Rads grow and mature.
What better way to explain that than puberty?Well, I make this sound like an interesting point, but the way the book does it is describing how Lanik has grown breasts and how there was another girl who grew a penis and used it to pee on people in protest to...
Lanik's dad gropes him and it was just weird to think about because later, it just turns out that he's a good guy sweetheart the whole time.WHAT?
This was the most bizarre book I have ever read... not bad, just strange.
Treason feels much more intuitive and far more subtle, and this is what makes it work, I think.Written in the soft science fiction tradition that feels almost more like magic than science, Card tells the tale of Lanik Mueller, the dispossessed heir of the powerful Mueller family, whose genetic legacy is the ability to heal from almost any wound.
The descendants of each of the original exiles have developed particular talents--such as the Muellers' regenerative abilities--that allow them to survive on this planet or even to trade something valuable to the Offworlders in exchange for the iron which is scarce on Treason but which gives a distinct advantage to the families who possess it as they struggle for power against the other families.
But Treason-- a reworking of the second novel Card ever wrote-- takes things to a whole new level of crazy.
except apparently if you're Orson Scott Card.Now, there is definitely a point to the story.
As much as it has the trappings of science fiction, Treason really uses its setting more like fantasy or even magical realism, to explore Lanik's character and identity as he asks the questions, "who am I?" and "what kind of life should I live?".Card pretty much nails this bizarre Jungian twist on sci-fi, crafting scenes and settings as fascinating as they are disturbing.
This is one of his early books, so we can't expect the same kind of polish that he would be writing with nowadays, but this book wandered around (literally) so much that sometimes I couldn't tell what the story would end up being about.
Or even now.The story is set on a planet called Treason (which was the original publication title), and follows Lanik Mueller from his point of view.
In the Audible version, Card offers us a 15-minute background/advice session in which he tells us where he got this story and the mechanics of writing it, and I found that it was as entertaining as the book itself.
This is a pre-Ender book – as in written before Ender’s Game.The writing is sparse and fast – a trademark of early Card – and it feels unpolished in places.
The story, on the other hand, is surprisingly layered in so many ways that it felt more like Timothy Zahn than Orson Scott Card.
It was sort of a return to the early Card that I enjoyed so much when I read Ender’s Game.
It feels kind of like Ender’s Game and the Alvin Maker series mashed together in one book.
It’s been a while since I last read an Orson Scott Card book, and I had forgotten how thoroughly his stories draw me in.
This was no exception, and I found myself unable to put the book down, neglecting other things I needed to do to read “just a few more pages”.
In a world where these metals is exceptionally rare, the nation that controls the supply holds the keys to power.As always, Card demonstrates his skill as a storyteller, providing us with rich characters and a story layered with meanings and lessons.
-Revisión innecesaria de una obra escrita por el autor cuando estaba comenzando a darse a conocer.- Género.
Su padre, combinando destierro, política interna y espionaje internacional, le manda a investigar cómo otra familia/reino, los Nkumai, están haciendo crecer sus dominios por la fuerza y a una velocidad alarmante.
Y es que estas familias, junto a muchas otras, descienden de los hombres que la República desterró hacia ya muchos siglos al planeta Traición como castigo por conspirar contra su dominio.
Novela que es una revisión y reedición de una obra del propio autor escrita nueve años antes con el nombre de “Un planeta llamado Traición”.¿Quiere saber más de este libro, sin spoilers?
The characters are not terribly strong.
It meanders a fair bit.
And this book literally begins with the major conflict being a young man growing breasts.
Dan hypothesized that Orson Scott Card just wanted an excuse to talk about breasts.
I don't know, but were I a man, I don't think I'd find the whole thing titillating.
In fairness, the breasts are only a symptom of much more, but still.
Moving on, another complaint I have is that the main character simply becomes too powerful.
I think his story would have been more human if he hadn't become Superman.
You need to be able to turn off your reality and feasibility filters for this one. Once you do that you can enjoy the imaginative and creative world the author has created. This book was fun, interesting, philosophical, and I enjoyed it. I don't think it would be for everyone. Some may consider it silly. If as a kid you had a powerful imagination you might like it. Remember back when you believed anything was possible. That is the place in my mind this story took me. Cool book!
This book is fabulous. It is tweaky in only the best kind of way that Orson Scott Card is awesome at. I got this book from the library freshman year and all my friends borrowed it and somehow it got lost and I had to pay the library $60 for a $5 book. They look down on "lost books" I guess. BUT even that could not sully my memory of this crown masterpiece of a book!
I was intrigued by the book jacket description, and I've enjoyed almost every book I've read by this author, but found myself disappointed in several issues and descriptions. It reminded me of a sci-fi version of a cross between the Odyssey and Gulliver's Travels (neither of which are personal favorites).
Un país prisión/destierro… familias luchando por controlar el planeta, el hierro como objetivo y objeto de negociaciones… Un mundo donde nuestro protagonista “aprende” y se adapta para lograr superar al planeta Traición. Otro buen libro del genio Card ;).
This usually gets overshadowed by the Ender series and the Alvin Maker series. This is excellent sci-fi with one of the most bizarre heros ever. A radical regenerative. You'll know what it means soon enough.The last line stuck with me a long time. Read it!
I'm not going to say this book doesn't have problems, but in spite of any problems it has, it is FUN. Lots and lots of fun. I wholeheartedly recommend this book.
I really liked this book. Finally an Orson Scott Card book that has a conclusion.
I thought it was all too fantasy-like at first then realized that the story was really one of redemption and loved it.
This book blew my mind in middle school.
TREASON tells of an arrogant and talented young man, Lanik Mueller, and his journey to learn about himself and his world.
The reader discovers the prison-world of Treason as Lanik does, learning new secrets and amazing abilities from each of the various peoples he visits.
Eventually Lanik becomes something more than human and finds himself in a position to save his world from tyranny (in his eyes).
One of my favorite things about Card’s novels, in addition to his easy-to-read writing, is that they do such a good job of striking a balance between challenging a reader with philosophical questions while telling an exciting and fun story.
The things I see him write about, and the things I see Brandon Sanderson write about is completely different.(Talking about Sanderson's aversion to anything adult other than killing.) It makes me think that Sanderson is personally against those things, instead of it being a religious following, as I was lead to believe.
Either way this book was great.
As it was said before "Any technology sufficiently advance, would be indistinguishable from magic".
This seems more a magic than scifi novel.
that means stainless steel instruments and devices...
meaning iron.
Either way it was great following the protagonist around.
