https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/40874032-vicious
Then, suddenly, I was catapulted into a world that did more than keep the promises of the blurb - A masterful, twisted tale of ambition, jealousy, betrayal, and superpowers, set in a near-future world - but also introduced me to a memorable cast of characters, an exciting plot, and some of the most addictive writing I've ever read.Schwab's other books never appealed to me but I suddenly find myself wanting to see if all her writing is like this.
I can't tell you how much Vicious surprised me, and I can't find words to explain just how exciting, gripping and beautifully twisted it is.
Victor Vale, however, refuses to accept the pointlessness of revenge and every breath he's taken during his ten years in prison was done with the memory of how it would feel to deck Eli right in his smug bastard face.And by some messed up cosmic sense of karmic justice, three days after his prison break out, Victor Vale manages to excerce a broad persuasion on a motley crew to assist him in destroying Eli: - Mitch, a tattooed, built-like-an-18-wheeler escaped convict with terrible luck who is exceptionally skilled at hacking and happens to immensely enjoy chocolate milk.- Sydney, a 12 years old precious child with necromancy powers whom Victor had picked up on the side of the road and immediately adopted.- a giant zombie dog who’s never really asked to partake in any of this.- drunk uncle™ Dominic, an alcoholic teleporter with chronic pain.Eli Ever is what Jane Austen would have referred to in 1817 as “never done anything to entitle himself to more than the abbreviation of his name” had he been named Richard.
*EDIT*I re-read Vicious for another book club 4 years on and I still really enjoyed it! This time it was closer to a 4 star read - I wanted a little more development with some of the charcters.First-read rating: 5Wow. I absolutely loved Vicious, it kept me hooked right from the get-go and as things got more and more intense, I could not put it down!I plan on filming a full review soon alongside the #LittleBookClub liveshow, so I will be back with more detailed thoughts!Verdict: READ IT YO :)
WHAT THE HELL EVERYONE IS SO MESSED UP. BUT THATS WHAT MADE IT SO AMAZING.
A Tale of Two Sociopaths.One is just ever so slightly more lovable than the other...This was right up my alley with all the Create-A-Superhero stuff!The reality, of course, is that neither of these guys are heroes. Victor and Eli were college roommates who experimented with a theory that Eli had about how Extra Ordinary people were created. Turns out he was right.  Ta-da! Due to some unfortunate factors, Victor's transformation doesn't go quite as smoothly as Eli's. And because of that little sn
The whole story unfolds in flashbacks, and I think the less I say about that, the more you'll enjoy reading about how it all went down in the past.I do think you should know that neither of them are sympathetic characters, but you do end up rooting for Victor to win.I gotta say, I thought the ending was a little underwhelming, but that may only be because I thought the rest of the book was so good that it didn't quite meet my expectations.
Still, I ended up tearing through this thing in a few days and thought it was (overall) a pretty fantastic story.Definitely Recommended!*Edit:This is one of my oldest son's favorite books.
Vicious (adj.):1) Having the nature or quality of vice or immorality.2) Dangerously aggressive, marked by violence or ferocity.3) Victor Vale.  “Victor was out. Victor was free.And Victor was coming for Eli - just as he'd promised he would.”   Eli and Victor used to be best friends. Smarter than the rest of the students of Lockland University, they tried to play God. Fascinated by the rumors about EOs, ExtraOrdinary people with supernatural abilities, they studied them at first, but later, they
Vicious (adj.):1) Having the nature or quality of vice or immorality.2) Dangerously aggressive, marked by violence or ferocity.3) Victor Vale.
Eli and Victor used to be best friends.
Smarter than the rest of the students of Lockland University, they tried to play God. Fascinated by the rumors about EOs, ExtraOrdinary people with supernatural abilities, they studied them at first, but later, they decided to create them.
Victor went to jail because of Eli, but he escaped with one goal in mind.
While Eli dedicated his life to the eradication of EOs, since he considered them as something unholy, Victor dedicated his life to revenge.
I was so engaged by the story I was dreaded the moments when I had to set the book down and go experience that awful thing called a social life.
Really, who has time for the real world when there is a totally compelling story just waiting to be finished at home?!Victor and Eli are absolute treasures.
They're all given compelling backstories that inform on why they rationalize certain things they way they do.
I'm a busy dude right now thanks to numerous real life commitments, but I put my other current reads on hold for a few days just so I could carve my way though this book first.
i absolutely love the idea of anti-heroes.
i love taking characters that we are meant to despise, but end up empathising and somewhat admiring them instead.
i loved how messed up and arrogant and broken both eli and victor were.
their relationship was everything to me.
their relationship was just so demented and deranged, i couldnt look away.
i love how the lines were blurred when it came to them.
this book in its entirety is honestly something else.
and thank the book gods schwab decided to bless us with a sequel that our boys eli and victor so undoubtedly deserve.
victoria schwab stop emotionally draining me challenge(i swear to god one day i will write a proper review for this)
But anyhow.Also Victor totally colours in books to chill out.Also this book is truly villainous and vicious and specked with really heartwarming moments (a psychopath collecting smol strays and caring for them; a terrifying huge hacker drinking chocolate milk; an immortal looking superpowered man being pissed he's still being carded before buying a drink) and I think those are my favourite moments?!I have full appreciation for how hard it must be to write a book with a timeline that bounces all over the place.
(This is basically Eli and Victor...except more evil.)
I was supposed to be reading Six of Crows but left it at work and started this in the meantime and FINISHED IT BECAUSE HOLY MOTHER OF GOD THIS WAS GREAT.
I legitimately could not put it down.
VE Schwab struck again!
The complexity of the characters and the bouncing back and forth on the timeline and oh my goodness, if you're okay with reading about some college kids intentionally trying to kill themselves to get superpowers and maybe becoming accidental villains in the process PLEASE READ THIS (and if not that's totally okay too, it was just really good and thought provoking).
“There are no good men in this game.”I'm in a Victoria Schwab fever.
Can't really blame her though, her novels are amazing!The most interesting thing about  Vicious  were its characters with their extraordinary abilities and the fact that there is no "good" main character.
But I ended up rooting for some of the side characters and - of course - the dog.Eli however really disgusted me.
They remind me of Dolores Umbridge and there is no one in the world of fiction I hate more than her.It also helps that Victoria Schwab is an incredible writer.
Vicious is the story of a villain and a hero. Or, that's what it disguises itself as. It's really the story of five different morally grey characters, all out for themselves, battling it out. This is a book that explores the hero / villain dichotomy and promptly shatters it to pieces. Someone could call themselves a hero and still walk around killing dozens. Someone could be labeled a villain for trying to stop that person. Plenty of humans were monstrous, and plenty of monsters knew how to play
Not a single character here is particularly good; everyone is a solid chaotic neutral except for Eli, who's one of the best lawful evil antagonists I've ever read.
Schwab's development of these characters makes the book's main conflict even more high-stakes.
She also shows off her talent for relationship building here; the conflict between Victor and Eli is so dynamic and interesting.
I'm always ready to read about friends-to-enemies relationships, and Victor and Eli's is especially cool.
Serena and Sydney are two incredibly compelling characters, and their sisterly conflict makes them ever more interesting.
Reading about messed up lunatics had never felt better, full satisfaction guaranteed.A twisted tale of friendships, bitter jealousy, betrayal, loss and ultimately of revenge, Vicious is about Victor and Eli, former friends turned foes who also happen to be deviously cunning in (almost) equal measures.
Neither one can be categorised as simply good or evil and unlike many stories of similar kinds, this is in no way a tale of good vs.
What more could you ask for in your characters than when they’re so delightfully grey and blur the lines between good and evil?
Seriously, everybody’s messed up and it couldn’t be more delightful.
“Plenty of humans were monstrous, and plenty of monsters knew how to play at being human.”  Friends, this is my fifth book by VE Schwab, and I’ve three starred every single one of them. At this point, it is glaringly obvious that you should take my review(s) of her work with a grain of salt, because it is obviously a “me” thing. I will say that I adore the author, and I want so desperately to fall in love with a book of hers. And even though I thought Vicious would be the one, it sadly wasn’t.
Friends, this is my fifth book by VE Schwab, and I’ve three starred every single one of them.
I will say that I adore the author, and I want so desperately to fall in love with a book of hers.
➽ Serena - To me, Serena and Sydney were truly the bright, shining stars of this story.
One thing I do want to briefly mention that I adored was Victor’s love for blackout poetry.
I loved the start and end of this book more than words.
And nothing is changing that because, believe me, I truly want to love her work so badly.
3.5/3.75*
The easiest 5 stars I've ever given. Full review to come! I just need to gather my thoughts.
In all honesty, I never put this one off because of the delayed sequel; in fact, I put it off for so long because hyped books + me typically don't end well.
It is precisely the type of book I want to shove into everyone's hands and scream "READ THIS!", because how could you not love it?
If you haven't read the book yet, or are looking to do a reread because you haven't gotten to part two, I highly recommend giving the audio version a go.
Highly recommended and feel this is in my top 3 audible reads (listens?) of the year!
You know that feeling of nostalgia you get when you're reading one of your favorite books? That's how I felt the whole time I was reading this. It was like I already knew this world and these characters. And that's not to say that they were bland or stereotypical (because they were extremely complex and compelling), but it was as if they were already somehow part of my life. I don't even have the words to describe how much I loved this. It was perfect, absolutely perfect.
re-read in September 2018STILL GREAT. I can’t wait to jump right into Vengeful.first read in February 2014THIS BOOK WAS AMAZING. The writing was beautiful, the characters were complex and the plot kept me on my toes! Such a roller coaster of emotions near the end there, and I NEED THIS TO BE A MOVIE.
BRILLIANT. ABSOLUTELY BRILLIANT. I BLOODY LOVED THIS.I thought this would be a lot more X-Men ish with tonnes of fight scenes and action sequences, but this was more of a psychological debate over good vs evil. I began the novel preferring Eli, and ended it rooting for Victor. I still can’t say which is the hero and which is the villain, considering that neither of them have any qualms about killing other people. They’re both equally evil psychopaths. I also adored the entire supporting cast, including Sydney, Dol, Mitch, and Dominic. RTC!
We have a talking, walking girl who just might be dead.This is the present, and we are rapidly brought back to the past...to Lockland University, 10 years ago, where two young men named Victor Vale and Eli Cardale were best friends.
He is a good "villain," if you can call him that, but I felt like his development was out of character and inconsistent from what we know of him.
The narrative is from a third-person perspective, and we get it from many characters, Victor, Eli, Sydney, Serena, Mitch.
4/5   “But these words people threw around - humans, monsters, heroes, villains - to Victor it was all just a matter of semantics. Someone could call themselves a hero and still walk around killing dozens. Someone else could be labeled a villain for trying to stop them. Plenty of humans were monstrous, and plenty of monsters knew how to play at being human.”   Okay so I have always wanted to read vicious, I swear I've had it on my tbr since I was born. Why? Well because that blurb sounded oh so
“But these words people threw around - humans, monsters, heroes, villains - to Victor it was all just a matter of semantics.
I don't think I can flail and yell enough about this book, I wish I could write this whole review in caps to get my point across however that's hard work on an iPhone and I'm extremely lazy.
I totally get why people find him hard to like, I however was made for Victor Vale.
My favourite Victor Vale quote; 
I always know books are gonna end up hectic when our antagonist is doing things for the 'greater good'.
“Be lost. Give up. Give In. in the end It would be better to surrender before you begin. be lost. Be lost And then you will not care if you are ever found.” I've  heard all over Goodreads about how amazing VE Schwab is. How everything she writes is amazing. With the hype came me putting off reading this book. So, when Sandra picked this book out for us to buddy read I was happy that I would finally get around to it. Vicious follows Victor and Eli who were best friends and college roommates. Whe
When it comes time for their college thesis assignment starts the two of them begin working on the idea that under the right circumstances you could give a person extraordinary abilities.
Victor and Eli are some of my all time favorite male characters.
Victor and Eli character wise have the same relationship as Professor X and Magneto in Xmen.
Sydney was my favorite character in the book.
It's one of the best opening scenes I've read, and perfectly sets the dark tone of the novel.
I died when I heard there will be a second book, because that ending.
These little sociopathic superheroes were so delightfully messed up.
I really don't know what to say about this that wouldn't spoil something because just the way everything unfolds makes it almost a mystery.
The story jumps back and forth between the past and present (and various characters) and totally felt like a puzzle.
Like you get little pieces here and there...
I normally wouldn't be super into a story like this that's pretty much devoid of romance and features a bunch of antiheroes, but IT WAS SO WELL DONE that I was totally into it!
Full Video Book DiscussionThis book was incredible! One of my new favorites of the year!I was interested from the beginning and I was pleased that Victoria Schwab's writing style was just as good as I remembered! I loved the way this was written with all of the flashbacks and I think that really added a lot to the story. So good. Highly recommend!
I can see how anyone (especially a younger-type millennial Anyone) who hasn't seen the early 90s Roberts-Sutherland-Baldwin thriller "Flatliners"* COULD be moved by this (you know, young 'uns playing with Death & stuff), a work of serious unoriginality. Another "X-Men"? No-oh thanks. (Unless, of course, you are under 30 & haven't yet gotten your fill of "Extra O rdinary" people [hint: as much as you want to deny this, every person on earth is an EveryPerson... No one's born "special," y'all!!!! (These superpowers are so very repetitive!].)* New version in theaters now. Obvi.
Eli and Victor are college roommates. I can't say that they are friends, because both of them are arseholes. We'll pretend they are friends. Eli starts a thesis about EO's or Extra-ordinaries. Those are those people with extra super gifts after they "came back" from the dead. So what do these two do? They decide to try it themselves. It frigging works. Ten years later Victor gets out of prison. (I give nothing away!! You have to read it) and comes after Eli. Eli meanwhile decides that he is the
Eli and Victor are college roommates.
I can't say that they are friends, because both of them are arseholes.
We'll pretend they are friends.
Eli starts a thesis about EO's or Extra-ordinaries.
You have to read it) and comes after Eli. Eli meanwhile decides that he is the only EO worthy of being alive.
Now at one point in this book I was saying to myself that I hated these two goons.
This book is different.
The only other book that I've read I could compare it with is Steelheart but it's still it's own world.
Go read it and...........
By the end of the book, I knew Eli's, Victor's, Serena's, Sydney's, and Mitch's backstory and motivation to be there.
I liked how the first half of the book it jumped to flashbacks every other chapter, but once it reached the first deadly fight between Eli and Victor, where Victor ends up incarcerated for 10 years, the book is mostly linear.
In the beginning if anyone would've guessed who would grow up to be a super villain most of the students and Lockland would've probably picked Victor over the incredibly charming Eli, but as readers we got to know better.Finally, I am so happy with the final fight scene, but it made me so nervous when I was reading it.
➳ I think is time for me to find out who is this morally grey character that everyone loves. ➳ Why did nobody told me that Victor is hot? Like what?That’s completely unexpected.
