https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1930282.They_Shall_Have_Stars
This little-known dystopian novel, first published in 1956, is, as the title suggests, set in the US of 2018. Under severe external threat, the country has descended into paranoia and become a Stalinist dictatorship which in practice is run by Francis X. MacHinery, the head of the FBI. The majority of American's citizens seek refuge from an unbearable reality in bizarre fundamentalist religions.How do science-fiction writers come up with these weird ideas?
Helmuth and the other workers have been mentally conditioned into believing that the bridge is the most important thing to them, to ensure completion of the project even through the unbearable conditions they must put themselves.
So I'll just leave that topic with this - if Blish did intend Wagoner to be a christ figure then he's lost a bit of my respect for that, I'd much prefer that Wagoner remain a driven but fallible man, the story works much better that way.The character than I most felt the most sympathy for was Robert Helmuth, the bridge worker.
James Blish was very interested in Christianity, which he approached from an unusual perspective, and many of his novels are in essence imaginative new heresies.
Two particularly startling examples are Black Easter and The Day After Judgement.
In the first book, the war between Heaven and Hell ends with the Apocalypse and the appearance of Satan, bearing the news that God is dead.
In the second, the final revelation is that even this is part of God's plan: Satan is unwillingly forced to become God himself, and assume the halo of the Divine.
Anne is the most intriguing character of the novel, and I wish Blish had let us spend more time with her.The other two elements of the story are the hard science aspects, the anti-aging breakthrough in biochemistry and the anti-gravity breakthrough in physics and what those breakthroughs will come to means for space travel and the future of human society.
To save the book, Blish by the end finds a better reason to build the bridge, but it's easy to see how tacked on the "real explanation" for the bridge is.Finally, I want to deal with the tiresome Senator Bliss Waggoner as Christ figure "analysis" some readers entertain.
I was so impressed with the quality and style of Blish's writing that I got Cities in Flight, an omnibus of four short novels, the first being They Shall Have Stars.
A factor in the book is the power of the USSR and the expectation that it will overwhelm the west.The science is hard in this science fiction, including technical explanations and fomulae, for the two technological advances that presumably lead to the next three books in the series.
They are the discovery of anti-aging medicine and anti-gravity technology, which will make interstellar travel feasible.
1979 grade B2009 grade B2018 grade C+Series book C0This is actually a prequel, written after the main two books.
It can be skipped.2018 This is either going to be a book to savor or to speed through depending on your preferences.
I ended up speeding through it.
All of that is just leading up to the to the invention of the "spindizzy" and immortality drugs.
Since I was interested in the functional aspects of the the author's use of the "spindizzy," it was not of much use to me.
Yes, it can be skipped.
The introduction to this book mentions that it probably shouldn't be the first book you read of the series. It is quite bogged down in details, without any details. The characters are strange outlines of characters. The story is almost driven with out a plot. Just endure it and something will happen.
The book is okay. It does a decent job of setting up its characters, and establishing the technologies that will appear in future books in the series. However, always skates on the edge of turning into the Exciting Adventures Of Nothing Happening.
Colonel Paige Russell is one of many spacemen who collected soil samples for Pfitzner.
Paige goes back the next day to apologize.Meanwhile on Jupiter a team from the West is building a bridge.
Bob Helmuth is getting kind of sick of the job.
Just Anne spilling a few secrets to Paige which forces him to come work for Pfitzner.
We're told the bridge on Jupiter is to test some theory, I'd like to see some scientists there making measurements or doing experiments.
Rating: Despite its age it holds up for me.I've always remembered this series as one of my favorites from when I was young.
I finally found an ebook edition, so wanted to re-visit it.It held up.
It is upbeat, despite portraying an Earth which is a mess, torn by upheaval and despair, politically a mess.
Yet visionaries look for ways to change the paradigm, and reach for the stars.
I'm tired of depressing books, and want ones that uplift us, that give us hope and remind us that we can achieve fabulous things so long as we believe we can.
We can't just give in to despair.
On the not so science-fictiony-anymore side: people seem to think receptionists should be hired based on their looks, the Internet never happened and microfilm book projectors automatically turn the pages for you.Beyond just the pleasure of science fiction in general, and the special strangeness of expired science fiction...
although in this case it seems like Blish got the politics more or less correct, even while offering some goofy pseudo-science that wouldn't fly in hard s.f. today...
Also, an S.F. book today would just have AIs doing that work, and then of course, they wouldn't think of it as hell and all that.
The dual story lines—the discovery of an anti-ageing drug that will bring about pharmaceutical-induced immortality, and the construction of a massive bridge on Jupiter that leads to the discovery of anti-gravity, allowing cheap, easy space travel—serve to bring about the technological advances that will allow the space travel of the later novels to occur.
As the society in TSHS moves closer and closer to conquering both death and the confines of gravity, largely against its will, Blish is showing us what the second coming of Christ will really look like in a technologically advanced future: immortality achieved through scientific breakthrough, and access to the heavens brought about through a massive, expensive public works project.
Although this is a clear nod of recognition to the McCarthyism of the 1950’s, it may be worth a pause here to realise that this was written sixty-odd years ago and not a current news report.) The Cold War is developing quickly, with clear references to the war between America and the Soviets.Nevertheless, upon the advice of scientist Dr. Corsi in the first chapter to look at the more extreme science out there (but not too extreme), They Shall Have Stars shows us the consequences of this, which, when put together, bring the book to an appropriate conclusion.The first of these innovations is the development of an anti-agathic drug, which potentially means near-immortality, or at least an extension of the average human lifespan.
I wonder if it's because 2018 is only four years away, so I couldn't match my experience of 2014 with such vast technological advances.
There were some funny, everyman moments, but for the most part, I just couldn't feel interested in any of the characters or the situation.
It was originally published as THEY SHALL HAVE STARS, which is a much better title.
I think some jerk at the publishing house felt the need to tinker with it for HOLY GOD YOU'VE GOT TO READ THIS BECAUSE IT'S GOT AN AWESOME TITLE reasons.
An interesting, yet talky, science fiction novel.
The focus author James Blish gives the book is squarely on the science.
Yes, there are mysteries in the tale to keep you turning the pages (what's the point of the "Bridge" on Jupiter?
What is the pharmaceutical company, Pfitzner really up to?), but there is nothing at stake to make you turn the pages faster to learn the secrets.
Despite this, "Year 2018!" is a good smart read.
Much less why that particular year is the more important than 2016 or 2020, for instance.
Still, it was good to read a science fiction that emphasizes the science.
While this novel is an excellent prologue, it is clearly a prologue that is solely designed to set up the rest of Cities in Flight. This novel does a solid job of providing the setting; it presents the scientific and political milieu for the year 2018, which sets up the rest of the Cities in Flight storyarc.
They Shall Have Stars is the first novel in the four part Cities in Flight series, written in 1956 it's not particularly well known but is nonetheless quite a good little tale. It follows two people caught up within a dystopian style American future where paranoia reigns supreme and within government projects secret research on life extension and gravity are being done - whilst not a seemingly interesting subject in and of itself, it is actually interesting and is the groundwork for further expansion of the story in the following books.
In the introduction to my old 1957 paperback, Blish notes that this is really just an expanded prologue.
The characters are sketches, the ideas seem half baked, and the there is way too much political and medical crap to make this terribly interesting.
Apparently, the rest of Ciities in Flight is better an contains none of these characters.
I will say that the end was kind of cool, and would have worked with better characters.
I read this as kind of a joke, so I won’t be continuing with the series, at least not for awhile.
Indeed, this year has started with a bang!
I read They Shall Have Stars shortly after an English professor told me science fiction didn't exist as a genre. The whole concept behind Cities in Flight fascinated me, as did (and still does) political intrigue (which is probably at its finest in this first book in the series).
Very appealing book. Oddly moving. I loved the relationship between Anne Abbott and Paige Russell, even though it couldn't be developed much because the book is so short. I guess I'll have to read the other 3 novels in the series.
Meh. I thought that this was supposed to be hard science fiction it turned out to be more like fantasy. Started o the second book could not finish it.
A book set in the future.
Best of the series
If you love fascinating science talk, you'll love this. If you dislike character development being sacrificed for fascinating science talk...you will not be pleased.
James Blish has an all around amazing writing skills, he simply did not set any limits to his imaginations when he was writing this book, this book sums up the true definition of Science Fiction.The writer simply took flight and set no boundaries to where it would go and I must say it was one hell of a ride!
The first of the Cities in Flight novels, my all time favourite series as a teenager, so it was interesting coming back to it 40 years later.By modern standards, the writing creaks abysmally.
And secondly, the underlying scientific basis of the book (and the other three novels) is beautifully thought through.Later novels are more about storytelling, but this one (written after the third in actual sequence, so it's technically a prequel), is all about politics and science with a mere wisp of a plot to string it together.
I read this by accident and I blame it all on my tendency to hoard hundreds of books I have yet to read on my kindle at once just to prevent running out of reading material if I have to wait somewhere (the horror), as well as the fact that I generally don't look at summaries of books put on my to read list long ago directly before reading (I like to be surprised!).
While reading I started to wonder what was causing me to get so slowly through a little 200-something page book (The Last and First Men) and why it sounded somewhat old, but not exactly like a book from 1930 and not at all like anything I expected...which uh, well..
James Blish’s Cities in Flight is a series of four novels that documents Earth’s discovery of technology that allows them to achieve long distance space travel and the ramifications of Earthlings traveling the galaxy and beyond.Book one starts off on Earth in the not so distant future of 2020(ish).
The technology is of little use to them, however, until they can find a way to overcome the issue of space travel–the fact that it takes several human lifetimes to travel a significant distance in space.
By the end of the first novel, the secret project of Big Pharmaceutical is revealed–they have discovered anti-aging medications that allow humans the ability to live several lifetimes.
They Shall Have Stars, the first of the Cities in Flight series by James Blish, is a sophisticated, high tech science fiction novel.
During the course of the story several momentous inventions are born of the crackpot research, but in the story these instances, (which hold great potential to make the book ridiculously hard to put down), are somewhat dummed-down with annoyingly crude "1950's" hard science fiction-type language.
Though early hard science fiction is not for everyone, and the plot is minimal, these things aside the book is filled with fascinating political ideas and is highly recommended.
After about half way through this classic novel, I was told this is probably not the first book in the series to start with--even though it is the first in the series.
The duel story lines never seem to mesh up until about two thirds the way, and then the novel takes off and becomes very interesting.
Dick, you will like this.This is a worthwhile early hard sci-fi novel with some genuinely well-written passages.
At least our main character seems to genuinely fall in love with her.The plot is rather minimal, the ice bridge on Jupiter concept absolutely outlandish, and the mini-chemistry lectures annoying.
