https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/24874322-the-life-of-a-stupid-man
Twenty years old at the time, he had climbed a ladder set against a bookcase and was searching for newly-arrived Western books: Maupassant, Baudelaire, Strinberg, Ibsen, Shaw, Tolstoy...The sun threatened to set before long, but he went on reading book spines with undiminished intensity.
Standing on the perch at the top of the ladder, he looked down at the clerks and the customers moving among the books.
I couldn’t tell you what either of those books is about.
I’ve read some other reviews on here about this book; I’ve even looked at scholarly summaries about it, and I just don’t see it.
First I have a question: why are people rating this so highly and talking effusively of how brilliant this is.While the first story is mildly amusing the rest is unreadable. The title story is broken down into 51 miserable bites there is no coherent plot and why would one find his constant moaning of wanting to die thrilling.In conclusion this book will leave the reader wanting, there is no fulfilment here only emptiness a sense having read NOTHING.
Χαλαρά απο τις πιο ευχάριστες εκπλήξεις του 18. Ειδικά το Ρασομον, Στον ίσκιο του μπαμπού και το Πόδια Άλογου τα κατατάσσω στα καλύτερα διηγήματα που εχω διαβάσει. Όπως λέει και το επίμετρο : "Πίσω απο τη φαντασία είναι η καθαρή πραγματικότητα. Πίσω απο τον μύθο είναι η καθαρή αλήθεια. Επειδή αυτός ο μύθος δεν είναι το παραμύθι, αλλά η ζωή στην ολοτητα της.".
"Ah, what is the life of a human being, a drop of dew, a flesh of lightning? This is so sad, so sad. What can I say?" This Little Black Classic included three stories of the Japanese writer Ryūnosuke Akutagawa, who lived in the 19th and 20th century. He's regarded to as the father of Japanese short story and Japan's most prestigious literary award is also named after him!The first fictional story retells a murder scenario solely through the eyes of the witnesses and participants, which was a ve
This Little Black Classic included three stories of the Japanese writer Ryūnosuke Akutagawa, who lived in the 19th and 20th century.
There's a recollection of memories of people in Akutagawa's life who died and a contemplation of life phrased in short sequences.
There's not a lot of action, but then I suppose there are different reasons for remembering things and it's interesting, because even though this is not a biography, but a rather poetic approach, I felt like I got to know what kind of person Ryūnosuke Akutagawa was, who unfortunately committed suicide aged 35.
Including little stories from "around the world and across many centuries" as the publisher describes, I have been intrigued to read those for a long time, before finally having started.
I'm glad this was the last book I read before studying for my exams.In the Bamboo Grove 5/5 starsA short tale about the case of a thief who has been accused of murdering a samurai after raping his wife.
In the end, you really do end up wondering what happened in the Bamboo Grove.Death Register 5/5 starsThis short story is an autobiography of Akutagawa's past.
It's a sad story and not one you can really give a rating to, but his execution was stupendous especially since he abhorred the idea of writing an autobiography of himself.The Life of a Stupid Man 5/5 starsThis is actually the author's suicide note.
"Ah, what is the life of a human being — a drop of dew, a flash of lightning? This is so sad, so sad." @monica_readsThe Life of a Stupid Man was my very first read of Penguin Little Black Classic. This book contents 3 short stories:1. In a Bamboo Grove2. Death Register3. The Life of a Stupid ManI think 2 of them are like autobiography of the author but it's written uniquely. In The Life of a Stupid Man part, it's just like the snippets of 51 short stories.At first it was pretty hard for me to u
@monica_readsThe Life of a Stupid Man was my very first read of Penguin Little Black Classic.
This book contents 3 short stories:1.
The Life of a Stupid ManI think 2 of them are like autobiography of the author but it's written uniquely.
In The Life of a Stupid Man part, it's just like the snippets of 51 short stories.At first it was pretty hard for me to understand this book, since it's really out of my usual comfort read.But actually it's a very enjoyable read.
So I gave this book 4 stars ♥
Αρχικά δεν ξέρω γιατί στα στοιχεία της έκδοσης έχουν δοθεί 202 σελίδες, το δικό μου αντίτυπο πάντως όλη πληρώνεται στην 188.Πέρα από το Ρασομον και κάποια ακόμη διηγήματα που τα έχω διαβάσει σε παλαιότερη έκδοση, το Βίος και Πολιτεία πραγματικά με συγκλόνισε και μου προκάλεσε ταύτιση.
θεωρώ πολύ χρήσιμο να υπάρχουν τέτοιου τύπου σημειώσεις σε συγγραφείς που λόγω της προέλευσης οι εκδότες (ας μου επιτραπεί η έκφραση) τους ξεπετανε.Γενικά αξιοπρεπεστατη και ποιοτική έκδοση, με πάμπολλες σημειώσεις (σημαντικό κι αυτό) και μακάρι να υπάρξουν κι άλλες να γνωριστούμε καλύτερα με την Ιαπωνική λογοτεχνία.4 / 5
Tres relatos” por Ryunosuke AkutagawaLo primero que me encontré con este libro fue con el “biombo del infierno”, el cual pasé de largo ya que ya lo leí la semana pasada en “Roshomon y otros cuentos”, luego me vi sumergida en un ambiente denso de “Los engranajes” me costó leerlo sinceramente, no estaba preparada para verme en un ambiente de depresión mezclado con un comienzo de esquizofrenia, donde las alucinaciones visuales y otros fantasmas comienzan a alterar su pensamiento.Apartado de esas historias feudales que lo caracterizan, nos encontramos con dos obras autobiográficas, por un lado los “engranajes” y por el otro “vida de un loco”, en los que trae una y otra vez su sentimiento de culpa, la depresión, y sus temores constantes de la enfermedad que ya atacara a su madre.
On of the three little Penguin books I bought in Tokyo for the plane trip back home.
Oddly enough, I never read his works, but I knew of him as the iconic writer of his time.
Strongly influenced by the French writers and poets of the 19tth century (he was born in 1892 and died in 1927), there are traces of that type of impressionistic dynamics in his work.
The longer piece "The Life of a Stupid Man" is a poetic commentary of a young man going under.
Of course, I'm going to seek out and purchase a bigger collection of his stories.
Most of them are barely a page long but they're great!
I didn't understand this, neither the short story nor the autobiographical bits. There were a few sentences I really liked, though (so it's 2 stars not 1).
This Penguin Black Classic collection contains his popular short story, In A Grove, and two authobiography sketches, Death Register, and The Life of a Stupid Man. In all of them, Mr. Akutagawa's writing style is introspective and melancholic.
This short story will always be one of my favorites.In Death Register, Mr. Akutagawa writes about his family, in the lens of the deaths of his mother, then his first sister and subsequently, his father.
I think the essence and ideal of the three connecting stories is that all three deaths passed simply, and there was no suffering on the part of those who died, and who were left behind.
Either way it is reasonable to believe that this kind of writing was written and published by a desperate man who suffered enough in his life and had depressing thoughts about life in general.
Somehow, I liked this excerpt "When I kill a man, I do it with my sword, but people like you don't use swords.
True, no blood flows, the man is still alive, but you've killed him all the same.
Needless to mention that some stories were hard for me to draw any conclusion from them.
My mind is being off-balanced, so reading these stories only make it worse.
Every single one of them, however, concealed some kind of needle to stab me, whether in the text or an illustration."" 'The Four Fearsome Enemies-Doubt, Fear, Arrogance, Sensual Desire' - When I saw this, I felt still more defiant: there so-called "enemies" were, at least to my mind, simply different names for sensitivity and intellect.""Life is more hellish than hell itself."And then the novel ends with this:"To go on living with this feeling is painful beyond description.
Dood en zelfmoord zijn dan ook niet toevallig thema's in zijn kortverhalen.
Wat ik zelf fantastisch vind aan de verhalen van Akutagawa is de manier waarop hij met korte fragmenten, vanuit verschillende standpunten (in tijd, personage, realiteit, etc.) een sfeer schept die de gebeurtenissen of personages onvolledig maar toch treffend belicht en hen zonder duidelijke aflijning toch concreet maakt.
Hij heeft de helft minder woorden nodig dan de doorsnee schrijver.
Je merkt bovendien ook bij hem de drang naar puurheid en evenwicht, naar zuivere kracht en controle die zo eigen is aan vele Japanse kunstwerken.
I fell in love with the 80 little black Penguin Classics as soon as they came out and had to choose at least one to purchase so I took it as an opportunity to broaden my horizons and read something different.Ryūnosuke Akutagawa was a Japanese author who lived from 1892 to 1927 and this selection of stories was taken from Jay Rubin’s 2006 translation of Rashomon and Seventeen Other Stories.I am really glad that I read this despite it being out of my comfort zone.
I liked this collection and would recommend it if you already love Japanese fiction or you want to try something new.
His adolescence, marked by hatred towards the smell of dead bodies intertwined with attraction to the concept of murder, grew into a manhood with an interest of rotten-apricot smell of corpses and suicide."He wanted to live life so intensely that he could die at any moment without regret." His life, strong with visual senses on form, shape, picture, and color, was occupied by his diversion from emotional attachments and self-appreciation, which crafted a scenic life story and mixed-up testimonies ended by defeat.Along with "In a Bamboo Grove" and "Death Register", Akutagawa added depth into the Japanese literary cult of depression, self-concealment, solitude, and women's obedience, with a sensation of soul-baring impulsiveness.
I should have been more impressed, or, I suppose, moved by these little autobiographical snippets then I was. They were intriguing, indeed, but they had a dull quality that was difficult to ignore in order to enjoy them. The first, what, fictional short story? (sometimes it's hard to tell with these since there is no introduction of explanation) was rather confusing though it showed the wonderfulness of man's inability to remember the truth.Blog | Instagram | Twitter | Pinterest | Shop | Etsy
I loved the first two stories, but I wasn't such a fan of the last one. 'In the Bamboo Grove' was especially nice, because it was a story about a murder and it was told by so many different people that I'm not quite sure who the real murderer is.
2 for the first part, 5 for the second part
This 'little story' is as dark as his life. Who would write an autobiography and title it 'The life of a stupid man'? History tells us he eventually committed suicide. Sad. Really. Sad.
kinda weird and actually really deep in some ways.I guess maybe they're just not really my type of short stories. (although I enjoyed the first two)
I thought after reading this that this author was reborn as Jim Morrison
The book contains 3 stories: In a bamboo grove, death register and the life of a stupid man.In a bamboo grove was the inspiration for Akira Kurosawa's Rashomon.All 3 stories give a very intense feeling. Knowing that the life of stupid man is autobiographical makes it even more impactful.The great thing about many Japanese authors is how much they can convey in such short works. Regarding the book itself, the pages are nice and thick, the font is very easy on the eyes and everything feels robust. If you have the chance, get it and read it.
Knowing that the author killed himself in suicide attempt is somewhat making me a bit dejected to read his book.
What a life as an author, of being Akutagawa.
A story based on Akutagawa's life.
This story making me go and google more about Akutagawa.
I love the haiku at the end of the story.
I may wear the skin of an urbane sophiticate, but in this manuscript I invite you to strip it off and laugh at my stupidity." This story basically a summary of Akutagawa's life tells in 51 fragments.
Hallé los cuentos muy perturbadores, al grado de que acabé de leerlo en la madrugada y me levante, toda nerviosa, porque no podía conciliar el sueño.
Conforme te acercas al final sabes que habla de EL FINAL.
Hay algo en Akutagawa que me quita la calma de una forma que pocos autores logran.El biombo del infierno es ficción.
Pero aún en este cuento el autor logra meter ciertos elementos muy personales, muy perturbadores.
Él mismo, en el 49 de Vida de un loco dice que considera que no es un autor para toda la gente.
We get short testimonies of everyone who was connected to a murder.
These people include the murderer, the victim, eye witnesses and the person that found the body.
At the end though we still don't know exactly what happened since everyone tells the story differently and elements change.
I loved how we got these little views of people that have been important to the author but are dead.
Some did, some did not and others I did not understand why they were included in the story.
It got better further on in the story, you can feel the ending coming but this was my least favourite out of the three.
The author is known as “the father of the Japanese short story.” This little collection of stories is fascinating.
He also wrote the short story Rashomon (in which nothing much happens), but it’s not included in this volume.
But we do have In a Bamboo Grove, sometimes known simply as In a Grove.
For the film Rashomon, the Japanese director, Akira Kurosawa, drew some elements from the Rashomon story, but the main storyline and characters are taken from In a Bamboo Grove.
The final two stories, including the titular one, are based on the author’s life and are rather dark.
"თეთრად გადაპენტილი ალიბლები მის თვალებში გასაშრობად გამოკიდებულ ძონძებსა ჰგავდა, მაგრამ ამ ალუბლებმა, მუკუძიმას ძველთაძველმა ალუბლებმა, ბოლო დროს მას შეაცნობინა თავისი თავი.""ქორწინების მეორე დღეს მან ცოლს უსაყვედურა: "არ უნდა დაგეხარჯა ფული უყურადღებოდ". ეს სიტყვები დეიდას დაძალებით იყო ნათქვამი. ცოლმა მოუბოდიშა არა მარტო მას, ეს თავისთავად, არამედ დეიდასაც... მოიბოდიშა ქმრისთვისვე ნაყიდი ნარგიზებიანი ლარნაკის გვედრით.""მისთვის, 29 წლის კაცისათვის, წუთისოფელი სულაც აღარ ჩანდა ჩანდა მშვენიერი. მაგრამ ვოლტერმა ხელოვნური ფრთებით შეაიარაღა. მან გაისწორა ეს ხელოვნური ფრთები და მსუბუქად, იოლად გაფრინდა ცისკენ. მაშინ გონების სინათლით გაცისკროვნებული სიხარული და ურვა ადამიანური ცხოვრებისა მისი თვალსაწიერის მიღმა დარჩა."
