https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/668645.The_Status_Civilization
The Status Civilization is not a SF aficionado must-read, but it's a fairly enjoyable romp through an interesting world.
The starship is soon revealed to be a prisoner transport and he is abandoned on the prison world of Omega, home to a twisted society run by deported criminals.
The Status Civilization was written in 1960, and occasionally the book’s age peeks through, a wrinkle here, a saggy bit there (computers in the future being programmed via punch cards was a LOL moment) but for the most part it’s pretty spry for its age, leading the reader on a pacy dash through the twisted world of Omega and beyond.
It was a society in which the lawbreaker was king; a society in which crimes were not only condoned but were admired and even rewarded; a society in which deviation from the rules was judged solely on its degree of success.And this resulted in the paradox of a criminal society with absolute laws which were meant to be broken.”In The Status Civilization Robert Sheckley turns the idea of society and morality on its head in his world-building for the planet Omega.
If you have never read Robert Sheckley before, I have very good news, many of his short stories, including this very novel being reviewed, are in the public domain, available for download as e-books (and some as audiobooks).
I planned to read a chapter each day as I perused the comics, news, and celebrity gossip - BUT it turned out to be a real page-turner (or mouse-clicker...or whatever you want to call an involving story read online...) I ended up sitting in my uncomfortable computer chair, back aching, long past the time I should have been doing something else.
A man is sentenced to a prison planet for a murder he cannot remember committing.
The prison turns out to be a strange village comprised of criminals.
Sheckley is an under rated SF author with some great ideas, although he reminds me of PKD with his odd sense of humor that I just don't get sometimes.
This was one such, but the point was far better done than PKD generally manages.
A really interesting idea, a prison planet where everyone has their memory wiped & then they're dumped there.
If so, status increases.
What he finds there is even more disturbing.It's quite a disturbing look at the future that follows some trends that are even more in evidence today than when he wrote this in 1960.Another freebie from Librivox that can be downloaded here:https://librivox.org/the-status-civil...
3.75Un roman peste care timpul a curs bine.
Omega e o Australie a viitorului, planetă țintă pentru criminali, devianți, opozanți sau orice răufăcător ți-ai putea imagina.
Omega e un spațiu al terorii, bine ierarhizat dar condus după regulile celui mai puternic.
Roboții conduc totul, iar oamenii sunt doar observatori, păpuși care păstrează vechile funcții sociale pe post de decor.
Cruda și violenta Omega e mult mai vie decât mult doritul Pământ.Sheckey scrie un roman bun, tributar războiului rece și teoriilor fataliste din acei ani.
Însă un roman care aduce a Philip K.
Și care încă își păstrează misterul și ideile originale.
Wow, I did not expect it to be this good!
The story was captivating right from the start.
I'm a sucker for Kafkaesque plots.
The author's version of a futuristic Earth and the reasons behind why it evolved so is fascinating and disturbing.
The protagonist wakes up on a starship that's on its way to planet Omega where criminals of Earth are deported to.
There is no government in Omega, it's entire population were/are criminals.
I loved how the story progressed.
The sci-fi and futuristic ideas are incredible and by the end, they are tied up neatly that provided an immense satisfaction.

Two vastly different social structures (on two different planets) were packed into this novella.
The first was a prison planet in which inmates had created a world that worshipped evil and status was driven up by authorized kills.
The second was a cold conforming world in which order reigned.
I found both worlds incredibly fascinating.
As with so many dystopian worlds I was left with many unanswered questions and a few confusions.
Despite this I found the concepts fresh and I enjoyed the ideas.
ETA: Just upgrade it to 4 stars.
I originally gave it 3 stars but it has stuck around in my head...
Q:It was quite obvious that poisoning played a large part in the daily life of Omega. (c)
I have clearly read this book before, I wonder how many years ago since I didn't remember almost anything of the twists and discoveries the author has reserved for the reader.It's a light and short reading (around 100 pages), available at project Gutenberg, proof read by volunteers around the world.Well worth reading if you're a fan of science-fiction, even though the themes have been done and overdone since then: Sheckley has been, to my knowledge, a source of inspiration by its exploration of such themes: life in a penal colony, utopia turned into a dystopia, brainwashing, robotic civilization.
I initially went with 2 stars, to leave room at the bottom, but I'm going to to go with my heart and give the 1 star thumbs down. Ugh. I don't even have the energy to give this one a thorough dissection. The main character is bland and treated by the narrator as some sort of genius for managing to perform basic critical thinking tasks. Maybe he's a cousin to the protagonist in Dorsai!. The parts of the worldbuilding that you aren't rolling your eyes at are....wait...there aren't any. Skip this one.
3.5 stars.
This is a great, short classic from one of the early SF masters, highly reminiscent of Philip K Dick's early work, in both style and substance, sans the mind altering drugs.
The story also has elements that brought Jack Williamson's The Humanoids and Robert Silverberg's Hawksbill Station to mind as well.
It's hard to say too much without getting into spoilers, but this reads like a thriller, with the protagonist seeking to uncover clues about his forgotten past, and ultimately unmask a deep rooted conspiracy.
The story revolves around themes of conformity and stagnation, and of course, being sci-fi, happens in the future, on an alien planet.
I enjoyed this, liked the methods used by the protagonist to always get out of those situations despite what his 'advisors' always said. In the tale Will Barrent suddenly awakes on this 'space ship', apparently his memory has been temporarily erased. He is told that he committed a murder and has been shipped off to the prison planet Omega. Here crimes dominate. Well back on Earth, there have been drastic change, for one the planet is now close to utopia, with all based on trust.....Barrent must prove that he is innocent.....
Горько-ироничные повести о будущем, в котором совершенно новые технологии и почти не изменившиеся люди. Отличные идеи, захватывающий сюжет и вообще очень понравилось.
"Şeklidən nə oxuyum?" məsləhətinə ilk verilən cavab. Bəyəndim :) Adamı yormur, dili rahatdır, tez oxunur. Müəlliflə tanış deyilsinizsə, mən də sizə bu kitabdan başlamağı tövsiyyə edirəm.
Una novela de ciencia ficción entretenida que no ha envejecido demasiado bien.
The book although it may be weird and edgy some of the times has a lot to chew on.
First of all the author presents a view of a utopian earth, where automation has taken over.
You will at first focus on the action that happens on planet Omega but at the end of the book you forget all the action and the author makes you think of what it means to be in a perfect society.
Although I wish this book had about 100 more pages, in which Barrens new life, the return of the people of Omega and the new status quo would hane been resolved.
“Here” turns out to be a spaceship heading for Omega, prison planet for all of Earth’s unwanted criminals, who've been given free reign over the laws and culture of their new world.
And when Will kills one of them, he moves up from being a newly-arrived Peon to inheriting the dead man’s status of Free Citizen, his possessions, and his storefront, an antidote shop.With a new title, social freedoms, and a means for income, Will mingles with the Omegan society.
(In the camp of there are no new ideas in art, I suppose.) Some of his points like the insularity of people's pursuits on Earth have to strike rather close to home for people, like myself, who spend a large part of their energies on the internet.It is good that the book ends where it does because I found myself fairly easily formulating a lot of counter-measures that the computers/robots could come up with to ensure that the Omegans don't get anywhere with their plans.
All hail our internet nanny overlord!********I listened to the librivox production of this work, read by Gregg Margarite.
A dystopian novel disguised in a science fiction cover. Book rating; 4/5Narration: A bit flat, but we are still grateful for the work of Mr. Gregg  Download  A LibriVox audio version;  Download  an e-book from the Gutenberg project “Dead or alive, you will retain all your rights.”  Will is a murder and he is sent to the planet Omega, where all criminals are dumped and free to determine their own fate. Or so they think. The problem is Will has no memory of who he is and what his life on earth was
The problem is Will has no memory of who he is and what his life on earth was.On Omega you might think they would abandon law, that anarchy would rule such place, or that the survival of the fittest is taking place.
The book title describes the society on Omega very accurately.
The status of a person protects him and gives him certain freedoms.
(view spoiler)[Even the freedom to kill the lesser casts
The law protects the status and the law is there to get rid of the excessive population of criminals arriving every six months.
The tone of the book changes significantly through the course of the novel, but I did find it enjoyable.
He is then informed that he is a murderer on his way to a prison planet to begin a new life.
Early on he is saved by a woman who may or may not be real.
These mysteries are only the beginning as you try to figure out what is real and what's a facade.
This book deserves more like a 3.5, but the reason I leave it at three is because the characters are just not that interesting.
This book is all plot and that just isn't my thing.
4,5/5 Metis BK serisindeki en iyilerden. Kısa ve öz, en sevdiğim özelliği bu :). Kitap başlangıç olarak, PKD'nin romanından uyarlanan Total Recall gibi biraz. (view spoiler)[ - İçimde kalmasın söylemeden edemicem çünkü :D. -o kadar benziyorlar ki, Total Recall'u izleyenler bilirler 3 göğüslü kadını, heh işte, bu kitapta da yine 8 göğüs olanı var ve ikisi de kahramanlarımıza gösterip kaçan bir bir uzaylı rolu oynamakta. Öyküsünde var mı bilmiyorum ama Totall Recall filmi baya esinlenmiş bu kitapdan da  (hide spoiler)]. Tabi olaylar farklı bir yöne sapıyor sonradan. Yine hafif bir mizahi dil var. Baya sevdim.
I loved it.
Fun, imaginative, and it keeps you reading 'one more chapter' at a time.
yeah, it has some silliness to it by today's standards and it has a 50's SF feel to it nut I think that just adds to its charm.
it doesn't try to be uber-serious or snarky like most SF today.
I only wish there was this kind of material being written today.
Somewhere we kind of lost the FUN that made SF popular.
Maybe Hollywood will re-discover this kind of stuff when the super-hero movies have lost a little bit of their gleam.
This book is freely available from Project Gutenberg through the efforts of fine folks at Distributed Proofreaders. Robert Sheckley is one of my favorite authors, so when I saw this book in Distributed Proofreaders, I knew I wanted to work on putting it all together. Check it out!I definitely enjoyed actually reading the book after completing all the final checks and stuff. It's been a while though, so I don't recall all the details. I think I liked the way it ended.
Pulp FictionThe idea for the book was great, but the execution.. simply terrible. I loved the idea of prison planet society, but after first couple chapters, when the main protagonist settles in, whole thing goes down to a high school essay level. Mediocre sf in every way. Seems that the author had an idea only for the premise and the ending. Better check  Janusz Zajdel for interesting society/utopia stories.
While I agree with Mark about the wasted idea, to some extent, I still think this science-fiction novella about a moribund, manipulative Terran Hegemony deserves a better grade than one star for that idea. A nonconformist from Earth is railroaded, through false murder charge, to a prison-planet, then seeks to return to Earth to discover and reveal all. Of course, those who favor conspiracy theories will attempt to extrapolate beyond the plot. I still enjoyed reading it.
Çok iyi bir bilimkurgu romanı.Yüzey hikayede hareket hiç durmazken art hikayede bambaşka şeyler anlatıyor. Her iyi bilimkurgu kitabı gibi günümüzü tahlil edip yaklaşan tehlikelere karşı farkındalık yaratıyor.Kitabın sonuna doğru hikaye yavaşlasa da sona vardığımızda zirvesine ulaşıyor.Çevirisi muhteşem: Belma Aksun öyle güzel çevirmiş ki kendi dilime yeniden saygı duydum. Dimağı dert bulmasın.
One of the best books I've read, seriously. I was enthralled. It was made even better because I'd had never heard of the author, and its one of those free classics. I'm in shock right now how good this was. Read it.
Удивительно, что эта книга ещё не экранизирована. Судя по всему идеи из неё черпали разные творцы: от режиссера "Вспомнить всё" Пола Верховена до автора "Голодных игр" Сьюзен Коллинз. Крутые идеи, остроумный сюжет, наличие главной мысли. Это фирменный стиль Шекли. Читать и ещё раз читать.
The Status Civilization is genuinely successful embodying its satirical despairs in a shaped narrative set on a Prison planet where social hierarchies have been turned topsy-turvy (a classic device of Satire) and conformity means being always wicked.
