https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/566213.The_Secrets_of_Consulting
Weinberg has that peculiar sense of humor of older "systems" (i.e. computer science) guys - an unhealthy love of puns, alliteration, riddles, goofy parables, etc - but it doesn't interfere with the clarity of his messages.
By his own description Weinberg sees the role of the consultant less as a problem solver and more as a "jiggler"; someone that disturbs a system just enough (critical point - JUST enough) so that the system and the people within it become more robust at solving their own problems or, even better, at anticipating and preventing problems.
Recommended for anyone in a managerial role or overseeing any process improvements or work involving structural aspects of a "system."
One of the best and most enjoyable business books I've read. Certainly on my top 10 list. I came across this in some IT book club -- it was a $30 paperback and I was aghast. Have since probably bought and given out 50 copies (Gerry, you can send thanks) to engineers, auditors, and others who need to bring humor and sense to situations. It has sayings: "Things are the way they are because they got that way." Remember it.
The author has been a consultant since age 13, when he worked at a local supermarket as a substitute stock boy, noticed that no one was buying the rutabagas, and suggested to the produce manager that they be thrown away, and their shelf space be utilized for something with greater turnover.
Weinberg worked as a consultant for Ford on the Edsel, a famous failed product (strange: in his blog he says that around this time he worked on the operating system for the space tracking network used by NASA's Project Mercury).
The Secrets of Consulting by Gerald Weinberg is a book about the learning and wisdom of Weinberg's consulting career.
The Secrets of Consulting from the outset seems like it is specifically aimed at consultants or perhaps employees in larger corporations but as soon as you read it, you instantly become aware that this book contains advice and wisdom for your life.
While all of the advice usually centers around consulting cases it is most of the times applicable for your life as well.
The lessons from this book are applicable to most situations in your life and in your work.
Very thought provoking and humorous book. Although it leaves the reader with more questions than answers it definitely contains numerous advice on the subject. I only wish I read it before I started to be a consultant.
Laws of life, with a great Jerry Weinberg's spice!
Best SanityChecklist Ever. If something going wrong, probably it's you. If it's not you then it's definitely other people. But never tools or situation. Read and check yourselves.
Worth reading for everyone involved in business.

Finished the book in three days and enjoyed it very much.Afterwards I wish I’d read it earlier, and I’d like to compare it with How to Win Friends and Influence People. Both books introduce a lot of principles, backed by enjoyable and memorable stories, that you can apply to your life—for great effect—right away.Also, it finishes off with a great list of other books you might enjoy reading on different subjects; one of them being the book I just mentioned.
Entertaining and highly educational. Will have to return to this.
Этот тот редкий случай, когда мои ожидания от книги не оправдались.Прочитав первую главу я был просто в абсолютном восторге!
Вся глава в заметках, столько мыслей и эмоций!
Автор не просто жжот, он познал мир, корпоративную культуру и явно узнал ответ на вопрос Вселенной и всего такого.Но дальше что-то пошло не так.
Да, законы консалтинга применимы в жизни, они интересны, из них можно почерпнуть чего-то полезного.
и так и не вернулся.
В конце книги количество заметок на полях сошло на нет, что для меня является главным показателем падения интереса к книге.Чтиво интересное, но дикое количество восторженных отзывов в этих наших тырнетах мне все же не совсем понятно.
Looks like a lot of advice given in a very approachable and brief format. Lots of insight into human interactions, and not a lot of fluff and sunshine. It is one of two Weinberg books I currently own, and I'm realizing that two is not nearly enough.
This is a very honest and forthright book about consulting. It is also quite funny.It's not just a book for consultants, but also for people who use the services of consultants. I think I can get the most mileage out of it if I can entice my clients to read it.
A book can only do so much, but this book is the closest thing I've ever seen to a howto guide to consulting. A person could do some good, and make a very comfortable living just following Carl Weinberg's advice. This is especially useful for technical consultants.
Read this book if you are new to consulting, otherwise you may already know much about what you may find here.
Poorly written with self evident consulting half-truths like "don't make any promises" and "it takes years to earn clients' trust but moments to lose it". Gee thanks.
Interesting!
Very easy to read. Good advices regarding prices, trustworthiness, and recommended books in the end.
Many timeless lessons that can be applied in any work environment.
Not just for people who make a living as "business consultants" but applicable to anyone looking for fresh and counter-intuitive insights on learning, changing, improving, helping, and life. Don't be shy about skipping around and you'll find gems all over. One of the many lines from the book that sticks with me: "Past glories are future graves." Don't focus on protecting what's "yours" and living off of your past accomplishments. I realized that's what I did. I needed to keep learning and trying new things and moving forward.
The Secrets of Consulting: A Guide to Giving and Getting Advice Successfully (Paperback) by Gerald M. Weinbergread many times in a box of special stuff that I hope I find in storagehttp://www.dorsethouse.com/features/e...
A good book that describes trust and integrity. People, either clients or spouses, need to know what you can and cannot do.
Great book full of useful advice and funny stories. Lots of Laws and Rules that are summarized at the end, plus an excellent list of suggested reading.
Chock full of great content. I would recommend anyone in consulting give it a read.
This one was recommended to me years ago, but I only got around to reading it last December.
It looks like a very specific topic, but I would recommend this to anyone who has to deal with other people for work in any way.
That probably includes most people who have jobs.
A lot of it is common sense, but it's presented in a way that help you remember those insights when you need them.
The copy I read was from the library, but I now own a copy for myself.
This is one of those books that one would benefit from reading maybe once a year.
I finally got around to reading this book. I'd recommend it to others who are in positions to give and take advice. Is someone asking you for help with something? It might be worthwhile to read this book.This could have been a pretty dry book. It isn't. The stories, puns, and alliteration all make its lessons memorable.Its short and might teach you something. Its worth a read. I'll be dipping back into this book.
The advice in this books is targeted towards outside consultants who provide advice to clients for a fee, but this is a good read for anyone who has to work or deal with people and hopes to influence them in some helpful way. I probably already knew most of the things I read here, but never thought about them in an organized way. So it was nice to find confirmation and to frame them in my mind. As a bonus, some passages are very funny - always a good-to-have in a book about consulting.
Why do consultants fail?How do I become a consultant of repute?What are the skills needed to become a consultant? If these and some other questions come to your mind when you think of consulting as a career,here is the book that should be really helpful.In a simple and lucid way the author has drawn upon his rich experiences and the daily lives' chore to make the reader understand the intricacies of becoming a successful consultant.Good read
This book is a gold mine of information that condenses many years of the author's experience into an entertaining and straightforward collection of short stories, tips, and techniques. A must read for anyone considering consulting.
