https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6643090-major-pettigrew-s-last-stand
Major Pettigrew's Last Stand, however, proves that any book about any subject matter or any type of characters can become a great experience if written well.
This novel is, essentially, a love story between a 68-year old retired Major Ernest Pettigrew and a 58-year old Pakistani shop keeper Mrs. Ali, brought together by their loneliness and love of literature.
English-Pakistani relationships take a center stage in this novel and are written in a particularly tactful and insightful way, without sugar coating the difficult colonial past of both countries and prejudices that exist up to this day.
But the Major's life starts falling into chaos when he falls in love, and with a most unsuitable candidate - Mrs. Ali, a charming Pakistani widow with a shared passion for Kipling.
West" stereotype turned on its head: the Pakistani families in this book are not simply portrayed as saintly picked-upon underdogs who can teach their English counterparts all about life, but as a fully rounded culture in their own right.
All one can do in the face of it is laugh - and cheer that the Major and Mrs. Ali might waltz off to a happy ending despite the opposition of their families.
Major Ernest Pettigrew is a decent sort, 68, retired military, widowed, and coping with the death of his younger brother, Bertie.
He is a respected fixture in a rural community, member of the local golf course club, romantic target for one of the local ladies, and defender of traditional values.
But everything changes when he encounters Mrs. Ali, a widowed Pakistani shop-keeper.
Despite their different backgrounds, Pettigrew and Ali find that they have much in common.Helen Simonson - image from The Globe and MailAs Simonson takes us through the will-they-or-won’t-they she also offers a look at contemporary rural England, with old values and new engaging in public and private.
I say.... old chap... What a wonderful book. Delicious, full of humor, wit, it's colorful, delicate, wise.... cute, a big five star, very special! Highly recommended! I'll be looking for more work of this author.
It is much more universal than that.It is a story about romance, but it isn’t a romance novel.
Everything fits together – traditions, values, rebellion, challenges – and creates a story that is both timely and very real.I loved the characters in this book, even the ones who weren’t lovable.
This one held me close through the enchantment of a wonderful story and excellent writing.If you have yet to read this book, I am happy to recommend it with enthusiasm and confidence.
One to turn the lights off with a smile and a thought to slumber by.Major Pettigrew is a 67 year old English widower who is trying to navigate the growing changes in the world, the dearth of discipline, the turning tide of etiquette, the lack of loyalties.
He becomes as dear to the reader as a beloved, yet eccentric uncle would.Mrs. Ali is a kind, generous Pakistani widow who owns and runs the small convenience store down the street from Major Pettigrew.
Sjajna knjiga, protkana finim sofisticiranim humorom...
Ta knjiga mi se izdvojila u moru drugih koje sam te godine pročitala...
4 godine pokušavam da nagovorim nekog srpskog izdavača da je objavi, ali bez rezultata, no ne gubim nadu...
Hrvatski čitaoci su u prednosti, prava je kupio Algoritam...Epilog:Skoro pet godina je trajalo ubeđivanje sa srpskim izdavačima da je neko objavi...
I valjda sam im se popela navrh glave pa se jedan napokon smilovao...
:) DakleM, ova knjiga će ove godine ugledati svetlost dana u Srbiji, ne pre leta a najverovatnije za sajam...
Such touching delusion must underlie many otherwise inexplicable marriages, he thought, and liked Christopher( the Vicar) all the better for loving his wife.To top it all off, Major Pettigrew's son, Roger, drops a bombshell with introducing his new girlfriend, an American-- oh dear yes-- to the poor man.
"I think you've overslept.""What the ...""It's Christmas Day and it's already past eight thirty," said the Major.
The major heard a faint retching and held the phone away from his ear in disgust."Roger?""I think I threw the turkey out the window,"said Roger.
I am utterly baffled as to why this book is popular.
I expected sweet and charming and got dry and dull.
The obsession with the pair of guns was overdone, and was what finally made me stop reading the book.
The book is also bogged down with architectural detail and long, pointless descriptions of landscapes and interior decor.
The author's stereotyping of Americans is appalling and insulting.
She's clearly playing to British readers with this attitude.
"...the ignorance of the bad-mannered"?!
As if all 350 million of us are exactly alike.
Not all Americans are tacky and boorish and pushy.
Some good writing, but with terrible characters and dodgy plotting--an infuriating combination.The author can turn a nice phrase.
But, the Major excepted, the characters are terrible.
I shouldn't be able to predict every single aspect of a character's behavior, but I was.There were similar problems with the plot: There were several scenes where I thought, "Oh, BS.
It took me a while to finish this, because I kept thinking, "Oh, I should read more of that, but I don't wanna." After a while, I'd get brave and pick it up, and sure enough soon I'd be chuckling or saying, "Oh, that's nice!" to a specific line.
But Simonson gets it absolutely right in Major Pettigrew.Reading about a 68 year old, widowed, retired Major in a sleepy English village is not necessarily a draw for most readers, but there's an alchemy in the way the characters are written.
Some start off as stereotypes, but few of them remain that way -- and you don't have to wait for the end of the book to discover their layers.
They're all incredibly enjoyable -- I'm usually someone who likes adventure stories and urges the plot to go faster, but not once did I feel like Simonson was dragging her heels.
Absolutely charming. The Major, the last true Gentleman on Earth, is my new best friend.
Major Pettigrew’s manners and standards hearken from a more gentlemanly era, yet it’s as though he’s a one-man time warp surrounded by modern incarnations of rudeness and overt materialism – his son is breathtakingly selfish and shallow, his relatives are vulgar and grasping, and the local squire has class snobbery but no sense of heritage.
(And are we supposed to feel sorry for the Major because of his frightful son, or wonder at his bad parenting??) Worse, and still more disjointed, many of the other characters seem to come from outposts of civilization in the 1930’s where people think that Mecca is a restaurant and Hindu and Muslim are the same things.
Major Pettigrew's Last Stand is a wonderful comedy of manners in which the multiculturalism, rudeness and self absorption of the present collide with the stiff upper lip, rigid social consciousness and self absorption of the past as portrayed by Major Pettigrew and his son.
As the realities of 2010 Britain creep relentlessly into a village stuck in a time warp of Empire and English superiority, the character of the characters in each group is revealed.
Some evolve, some are hopelessly stuck and some are not what they seem.Surprising and deeply felt, the story is also about the kind of courage and re-evaluation that motivates and illuminates the human heart.
Sweet love story in a very English countryside.
I'm not big on giving out 5 stars for a book, but this novel deserves all of it's praise and more.
He is grouchy and curt....and I loved him completely.When the Major becomes inadvertent friends with a widowed shop owner of Pakistani descent, he is to discover that as advanced as the world has become, it doesn't quite extend to tolerance.
Read it with a pen and paper nearby because there are at least a hundred passages you will want to jot down for their wisdom.It really is a delightful book and one of the few novels I intend to keep on my permanent shelves for a re-read later on.

Such diversions are generally welcome and it was with great expectations that I opened the first novel by a transplanted Brit Helen Simonson, who sought to occupy her time as "a stay-at-home mother in Brooklyn [and her former:] busy advertising job" in creative writing programs.
(Now she has me doing it.) In any case, such writing is a sure sign of an ingenue, but is not in itself sufficient reason to abandon a book of imagination and charm (as the recent GUERSEY LITERARY AND POTATO PEEL PIE SOCIETY has so successfully revealed).More significant is the fact that her characters, with the sporatic exception of the major and the widow, are cardboard and uninteresting.
Major Ernest Pettigrew (Ret.) is a stickler for protocol; a man set in his routine in both action and philosophy, although he is not without the occasional witty retort.
Intertwined with the basic story of Major Pettigrew’s attempt to reunite two collectible Churchill shotguns and Mrs. Ali’s attempt to reunite her nephew with his estranged son and girlfriend, are important themes of how we view each other and ourselves.
But this is a romance novel that contains human lessons, tensions and struggles almost too numerous to count.
There’s also the psychology of dealing with the loss by death of a loved one and the subsequent tensions of dealing with inheritances issues.
Then there’s the issue of material objects becoming more important than human relationships.
And many of these issues show up in parallel fashion in both the native English and immigrant Pakistani communities.
And the English-Pakistani woman has a nephew with whom she has a strained relationship.
And then there’s the gossip going around the small English community in which they live.
3.75★"I would like you to be happy Ernest," she said. "We all deserve that."A heart warming story about people figuring out how, and then deciding to have, a meaningful and fulfilling life by letting go of preconceived notions, prejudices, and plans. If you read and enjoyed The Storied Life of A.J. Fikry, The Unlikely Pilgrimage of Harold Fry, or A Man Called Ove, I think you will like this one also.
I read a very positive review and bought this book the day it was available.
I just happen to watch "Slumdog Millionaire" the same weekend and thought the two contrasted well.The author is British but grew up in the United States, so she has a keen eye for the significant gaps between cultures, the old world way and the new high tech global way, tradition versus change for the better, the Empire's version of history and the version of history as seen by others!I would recommend this book, it would make a great book club read.
Is it enough to tell you Major Pettigrew’s Last Stand Is delightful?
The Major (Earnest, aptly named) – Retired British Army, military attitude, and strong values, almost stuffy with an air of ostentation.Mrs. Ali (Jasmina) – A Pakistani shopkeeper, a bit of an oddity in the small village of Edgecombe St. Mary, smart, kind, Both The Major & Mrs. Ali have recently lost spouses and are finding their way through grief.
Major Pettigrew’s Last Stand is a story of grieving, family, love and duty.
I am positive that my enjoyment of Major Pettigrew’s Last Stand is largely due to the fine narration of the audiobook by Peter Altschuler.
Helen Simonson's debut, Major Pettigrew’s Last Stand is delightful.
Books about fresh, dewy eyed youngsters meeting and falling instantly in love, make me roll my eyes and grimace.
But when a couple meets and they are instantly struck with the world-stopping, earth-shaking, (insert mushy love related cliche here), knowledge that they will be together until the end of time...oh, give me a break!When Major Pettigrew meets Mrs. Ali, the earth does not move, or stop, for that matter.
I liked the way one character described his feelings for a woman, -- "In her presence, I'm lost to her.
So, I enjoyed this tale of old farts in love.
Major Pettigrew, a retired British Army officer, is a man who is used to being in control of his routine and social life.
He is a widower of 5 years and has recently buried his brother Bertie.
The pair was passed to Ernest and brother, one to each, from their father as part of the will.
They were awarded by an Indian Prince to Col. Pettigrew, Ernest and Bertie's father, when India was awarded their independence.
During the Major's attendance at his brother's funeral and during his mourning time, he becomes attracted to an Indian widow, Mrs. Ali and a romance builds.
And the village he lives in is very similar to this one.This was quietly hilarious - the Major's dry sense of humour and the sometimes ridiculous situations he gets himself into purely down to social niceties and perceived face-saving is very funny.A lot of interesting themes such as race, class, family, love and sex are explored in a gentle but engaging story.
I am not generally a lover of romances and I wouldn't call this a romance novel as it's more of a family drama but it did appeal to my romantic self (who is very rarely present!).Highly recommended although do bear in mind that my English sentimentality will have influenced my score greatly.PS.
The two share their love of books, polite conversational exchanges, gatherings over tea, and a connection that neither seems to find with the other various people in their lives.For a debut novel, Simonson has outdone herself, as the charactization and plot feel like it was written by a seasoned veteran.
Both the Major and Jasmina are written well, and their interactions with the people in the village or various family members showcase how important the values and traditions they grew up with mean to them, but also how the shackles of upper-class British society or conservative religious ideas can weight them down in ways that really should not.
What a great story!
It starts a bit slow, but really packs an enjoyable punch through to the ending.
I really grew attached to the Major and this great cast of characters.
Some laugh out loud moments...some very poignant moments and a very enjoyable love story.
You got a feel for all sides of the story and it made for both sad and wonderful outcomes.
This story surprised me many times.
I thought I would end up disappointed but the opposite is true.
I loved the character development and recommend this for a light and uplifting read.
This novel was well-liked at book club and led to a very interesting discussion.
Major Pettigrew and I share a sense of humor.
Major Pettigrew in his sixties is charmed and attracted to Mrs. Ali, a widow and owner of the local convenience store.
In his stuffy and status conscious world their friendship is frowned upon.
The relationship is finally threatened by the world's most ghastly dinner dance at the golf club, a theme party based on the Moghul empire and culminating in the re-enactment of a train full of people murdered during Partician.
Can the Major win back Mrs. Ali and save the romances of both her nephew and his own son.
