https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/536982.The_Never_War
Yeppers just as good as before. Loved reading about the Third Earth territory.. what a utopia!

And in order to save First Earth, Bobby will have to unravel the web of the past, the present, and the future, as well as make one of the most difficult choices ever.Accompanied by the complex, vengeful, charismatic Vo Spader from the previous novel, with the addition of First Earth's mellow and wise Traveler Gunny, Bobby has reached a personal tipping point of his own; the time when he will truly come to understand what it means to be a Traveler.I loved that this book took place in our own past, with all the time-appropriate references.
The Never War (Pendragon, #3), D.J. MacHaleمن اینجا هستم، در زمین اول، ویلاکس در گم کن بود.
من و اسپیدر با ناودان به ویلاکس رفتیم، اما فهمیدیم آن جا خبری نیست.
خبرها اینجا در زمین اول بود.
من این روزنگاشت را روز تولدم برای شما مینویسم.
چه قدر عجیب، مگه نه؟ اگر من در سال 1937 هستم و امروز هم روز تولدم است، پس چه جوری پانزده سالم است؟ حتما از تعجب شاخ درآوردید، نه؟ شروع داستان به نقل از کتاب.
در این داستان بابی و اسپیدر باید از یورش گانگسترها و توطئه جنگ، جان سالم به درببرند و نقشه ی جدید سنت دین را آشکار کنند.
I mean, they don't even have a TV !!I think I liked that we are reading Bobby's journal continuously because I think it was so full of information and twisted plots, I would have gotten a bit annoyed if we are forced to take a break from all of that and read about Mike and Courtney's story.
As I'm reading Saint Dane's evil plot reveal, I'm still like …....so you did ALL all that for THAT...I mean why did you make it so complicated dude?....
I keep getting this idea that, Mike after reading about Spader and his adventure with Bobby, he wants to be apart of it.
Here they are: Friendship issues, War vs.
The main one for me though is Friendship issues.
The main character, Bobby, and his friend, Spader, are having friendship issues.
Spader is mad at an evil guy named St. Dane for killing his father.
Spader goes wild with anger when he hears about or sees St. Dane.
This doesn’t help Bobby stop St. Dane from destroying Halla (Everything basically).
In the end, Spader almost ended up destroying Halla by not listening to Bobby.Bobby managed saving everything in the nick of time, but was mad at Spader for not listening to him.
My favorite book since it takes place on the First Earth(historic/past Earth). The bombing and Bobby dealing with the gangs makes it very enjoyable.
اين آخرين جلد مجموعه بود كه خوندم.به نظرم ايده ها و حتي اتفاق هاي جزئي تمام كليشه اومدند.اميدوارم باعث پشيموني نشه اين نيمه رها كردن
But I feel like I enjoyed it a little bit more this time around and can appreciate how vital it is to the series as a whole.I love Gunny, who is introduced in this book, and I like that this story keeps you guessing of who exactly Saint Dane is taking the form of to cause the tipping of the territory of First Earth into disaster.
I also very much enjoyed the glimpse we get of Third Earth and that it shows just how poignant one moment in history can be in affecting the future.
This is a unique Pendragon book: It takes place on Earth. Even more unique: In the 1930's. I don't want to spoil anything, but Machale did an amazing job with this book, piecing it together and making it sound realistic. I really enjoyed it.
Definitely going to continue flying through these books, this one was so fascinating. Seeing a possible singular event end up creating a domino effect was interesting for sure.I love all the stuff that the author comes up with, he's got an incredible imagination and I love how each one is revealing more and more stuff and also creating more and more questions.I cannot wait to get back to my boyfriend's house so I can get the next book, I'm so stoked.
This is probably my favourite book in this series. It deals a lot with how choices can influence the future, and how a single choice can have very far reaching consequences, even if that choice seems to be right at the time.
Great twist ending. I kind of feel bad for Spader but he did deserve it. I definitely think he's coming back though. Can't wait for the next one.
Ok, I'll shut up about the Doctor Who mash up thing, but this one kinda reminded me a little of Bioshock infinity.
I think this had to be the most interesting book in the series partly because it took place in 1937 which according to the author is considered "First Earth".
I really liked this book because it was in the times of World War II and I've always thought that particular point in history is way interesting!
Through the flume, Bobby Pendragon with his new found friend, Spader, travelled back to First Earth to uncover Saint Dane's diabolical agenda.
In this heart-pumping event, they've met with the Gunny, the traveller from this territory; they've also met Jinx Olsen, the amazing lady pilot; and Max Rose, a mafia leader.
My favorite book yet in the series, you can really conected with this territory!!!
Bobby must not only save one world he must save three the past the present and the future not to mention Halla which is every thing in all of space...No pressure...
wrong Bobby,spader and Gunny,must find the turning point of the teritory First Earth..If something gose wrong not only one territory will be destroyed but three and to make matters worse this is could really hit home for Bobby (literally).
Join Mark and Courtney while reading Bobby Pendragon amazing adventure with amazing friends,mystery,suspense and much more this is a must read!!
The third installment of the pendragon series was amazing. They travel threw the flume to first earth, the time period before second earth. Saint Dane is continually trying to tear down halla and turn all he territories into his worlds. Bobby is still sad about uncles death. They work threw the events throw at them discover that the Hindenburg is the turning point of first earth and that people are trying to save it. But these events must happen for the sake of halla. No matter how bad they are.
از نظر من اين كتاب بهترين قسمت از مجموعه ي پندراگنه شايد به اين دليل كه در زمين اول يعني در سال1937 اتفاق ميوفته و مارو با زمان هاي ديگه آشنا ميكنه اينكه گذشته ي زمين چطوري بوده و آيندش چطور خواهد بود و چطور بابي بانجات دادن زمين اول از نابودي زمين دوم و سوم جلوگيري ميكنه.بالاخره زمين خونه ي ماست ديگه!!!:)
3.5
Emotional, big surprises, and exciting! Hard to put down, even though I've read it three times
However, I really hope that this is covered in a future installment because I see it as unfair to have three of the same territories like that.Editing/Presentation: The cover of the old version is okay; it has an old yellowish look that makes you think of the past, so that’s a nice touch, but it’s definitely not eye-catching.
If we had gone into their point of view too many times throughout, it would have thrown off the pacing and pulled the audience away from the big story.I would definitely recommend this series to a friend and anyone interested in fantasy and/or already reading the series.
The Traveler of Third Earth, Patrick, accesses a computer that predicts the future in which they save the Hindenburg: industrial spies working for Max would lead to the Nazis developing an atomic bomb and disastrously winning World War Two. Bobby and Gunny return to First Earth, only to find that Spader and Rose have gone ahead, seeking to stop Winn Farrow from shooting a firework rocket into Hindenburg.Personal Opinion:I honestly have really liked and enjoyed the Pendragon books so far, and I am looking forward to reading the rest of the books.
This plot was handled better than some of the other books, but the author's political views, such as environmentalism and "family planning" (in this particular sense it seems fairly likely that this is synonymous with massive abortion because it results in global population reaching zero growth) as the grounds for utopia come glaring through so much that the book is awful, and even delves into loss of personal humanity while the author tries to convince you it's okay.
However, you have knowledge of the probabilities of time and know that if you choose to shoot Ted in cold blood, Bill and Jim come out alive.
And the choices he must make in this movie are the toughest so far...Not only does this book have that oldie feel we all know in love, it also has all the drama and intrigue that you would expect from an entry in the Pendragon series.
While the other Territories were more clear cut in how to save them from certain doom, First Earth poses some serious questions as to what's right or wrong in the grand scheme of MacHale's universe.
Bobby and the traveler from Cloral known as Spader have traveled to New York City in 1937.
Here they discover that there is a plot with a connection to New York gangsters and the Nazi party that will result in the famous hindenburg disaster being avoided.
Bobby is faced with the difficult decision of either sabotaging the plan resulting in a historic disaster, or doing nothing and allowing his world to be forever changed.
This is another amazing adventure of Bobby, and i loved this book as much as the ones before.
Since we've been told a number of times that a traveler (somehow) always arrives when they need to, I'm not sure why these would be separate worlds at all, but so it goes.The story itself is fairly interesting.
I really like the ending, where (mostly avoiding spoilers) you end up with a somewhat standard time travel trouble of having to chose between the evil you know happened and possibly upsetting everything.
It's a combination of time travel just not feeling like it makes sense / something that's needed in a universe like this + the aforementioned issues with Spader.
DJ Machale always make the end interesting. This really makes one feel to start the next book right away. So far I liked his writing. But honestly the starting is always slow but become a fantastic work in the end.I loved this book. I liked how Bobby is maturing. I have mixed feelings for Spader. I liked how author made the plot in 1937 of first Earth. The idea of Hindenburg incident being the turning point of first earth causing world war 2 was fantastic. I liked his imagination of future earth i.e third earth.
I really liked this book because of all the action and suspense, but I still think the first book was the best so far.
The book is about a young boy that just finds out that he is a member of a group of people that fight for all the worlds and that he must do his part if he ever what’s to see his family again.
I think that the best part of this book is the part when he doesn’t shoot the gangster trying to kill Mr. Rose.
If you liked this book than I would suggest reading The Rangers Apprentice, its kind of like this book because of all the action and adventure.
Woo! This book did an amazing job of playing with the idea of time travel and how changing a fixed even in history can have catastrophic effects on the future!If you've gotten this far into the Pendragon series, then you've probably been wondering why Bobby's Earth is called Second Earth. Well, in this book you get to find out why!Very dramatic and suspenseful; I can't wait to see what happens next...on to book four!
Bobby Pendragon is a traveller who is supposed to save all of halla.Saint Dane has found a way to send 3 world into chaos one of which is Bobby's home of 2nd Earth, all at the same time. They are in New York City in 1937. I think this is a really good book it keeps you questioning. Like who has Saint Dane disguised himself this time. Will Bobby Pendragon save all 3 worlds including his home of 2nd Earth.
