https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/726054.The_Little_Bookroom
The world would be a better place if more ppl loved Farjeon, and George MacDonald (The Princess and the Goblin, and Frances Hodgson Burnett (The Secret Garden). Sweet but not syrupy, joyful, spiritual but not at all preachy, tender. Comfort reads all when I'm tired of the prophets of doom, the cynics, snarky reviewers, and trolls....
The stories were only okay, I found them a little too predictable, not quite exciting or magical enough, and the prose not quite lovely enough to make up for that.However, I absolutely loved her autobiographical essay about her family's house full of books, and the dusty "book room" where all the harder-to-sort books piled up in dusty, inviting heaps and the children could hide all day reading whatever they wanted.
When I was seven, my Aunt Kerry gave me three books for Christmas: The Little Prince, the poetry collection Hailstones and Halibut Bones, and this collection of short stories by the gifted and now mostly forgotten Eleanor Farjeon.
All three ended up being touchstones in my life as a reader and a writer, but this is the one I love most of all.
The illustrator, Edward Ardizzone, is another favorite of mine, and his loose pen-and-ink drawings add the right tone of sweetness and longing to Farjeon's modern fables, jumbled fairy tales, and loving sketches of English life.
Honestly, has there ever been a better fairy tale than "Westwoods"?
I still remember the day my mother gave me Eleanor Farjeon's The Little Bookroom and said that this woman had decided as a girl that she was tired of reading other people's fairy tales and so she had made up some of her own.
To learn that someone, a woman, could just make up a fairy tale was unbelievable to me and it was from reading these stories that I realized all the stories I had been making up, writing for myself, reading to my little sister and her friends, that each of these was, in its way, a fairy tale all of my own.
I found this book on my parents' shelves when I was a kid - I don't know where they got it, and I don't think they ever read it - and I read it devotedly. It felt like my own secret treasure. I have not seen a copy in a long while, but maybe I should hunt one down.
The Little Bookroom is beautiful compilation of fairy tales. I enjoyed each and every one of them. The afterward by Rumor Godden, a favorite author of mine, finished the book up in a bright pink bow of perfection.This would make a great read aloud, a fun read for a child ages 0-80.
Finally! After probably 35 years or so, I found it again. The best thing is, I loved it again and probably even more.
(hide spoiler)]5* funny 2 The King's Daughter Cries for the Moon 7 - Tears of missing princess on roof flood cook's fire, all cooks resign; 1K disguised Detectives jail everyone including Chief; "Children of the Dark" p 14 and Day rebel against Sun and Moon; world is topsy-turvy (view spoiler)[till girl returns before 1 April beheadings.
(hide spoiler)]9 Westwoods 90 - After Ministers beg for marriage with princess of east, north and south, young King John of Workaday jumps horse over western fence, raised so long ago to protect curious children that nobody remembers reason.
I got this book for my tenth birthday, and have read it at least seven times since. It is a collection of tales, exquisitely written and with the perfect touches of humour. In the first reread in a year, I remembered again how sweet they are, and how you don't need material wealth to be happy. An absolutely charming book; I really can't praise it enough. I declare, December is the month for reading all my favourite books! First Lord of the Rings, now this! I really am spoiling myself :)
I've loved this collection since I was very little. I wish more of Farjeon's work were available.
‘The Girl Who Kissed the Peach-tree’ feels like a traditional Sicilian tale, one of a handful of tales in this collection that evince a genuine love for growing beautiful things despite a knowledge that life can be hard.
Pre-echoes of this appear in the author’s own introduction to The Little Bookroom:"No servant ever came with duster and broom to polish the dim panes through which the sunlight danced, or sweep from the floor the dust of long-ago.
In the Author's Note at the beginning of this book there is a sentence that jumped out at me and made me smile - "It would have been more natural to live without clothes than without books." Short Stories for children and what a lovely selection they are too.
First published in 1955, the year I was born, it's dated for children today being nothing like a Harry Potter novel but I can see the attraction it would have held back in the day.
Even today, read with animation to children I could see it still being enjoyed.
wowvery cuteenjoyed alot
Seminal.
Some of the titles include: "The King's Daughter Cries for the Moon," "The Little Dressmaker", and "The Giant and the Mite." "Of all the rooms in the house, the Little Bookroom was yielded up to books as an untended garden is left to its flowers and weeds, there was no selection or sense of order here.
In the dining-room, study, and nursery there was choice and arrangement; but the Little Bookroom gathered to itself a motley crew of strays and vagabonds, outcasts from the ordered shelves below, the overflow of parcels bought wholesale by my father in the sales -rooms.
The Little Book Room goes beyond "once upon a time," and delivers a smart, engaging collection of short stories that are sure to delight adults and children alike.
Each story comes alive in simple yet evocative language that pulls the reading right inside Farjeon's "little book room" of discoveries.Awards: Carnegie MedalPages: 336Rating: GMy Thoughts:I found this collection of tales quite by accident as I began exploring the New York Review Children's Collection, which re-publishes long forgotten gems of children's literature.
Their writing is practical and matter-of-fact in style, which makes fantasy tales even more delightful when told from this perspective.The Little Book Room is first recognizable as a collection of short stories for children.
However, there was just something missing here that could have launched it to a new level, since the stories themselves were not necessarily bad; the book itself lacked any sort of experience of a "bookroom." I was hoping there would be a unifying frame amongst the collection of stories, but, alas, there is not.
I was hoping that the book would mimic the experience of being in a bookroom, as described in the Preface, but, alas, it did not.Having said all this, however, I would recommend this book to younger girls (probably in the 7-9 range) who enjoy fairy tales.
Some good, some boring, some too religious (for me), some very clever.Highlight was 'The little dressmaker' which had a lovely twist - the story seemed to be a repeat of the 'poor girl goes to dress-up ball where prince is looking for wife, prince has hinted he's got a great costume, girl meets 'footman' in entrance hall each night and falls in love with him, then the prince is about to get his bride and girl gets taken by footman to be married...
Her stories are surprisingly modern and stay with you for life.
It was my favorite book when I was little, most beloved stories had loose pages and my elder siblings lost the last few pages of the book, so I read the last fairytale in whole only when I was an adult...
I think that every little girl struggling with self-acceptation and wanting to be "like everybody else" should read the story about Seventh Princess.
These stories teach about tolerance, kindness, generosity, gratitude and change the way you see the world forever.
At least it did it for me, after I read this book over 20 times...
I revisited this collection of stories by the remarkable British author and journalist Eleanor Farjeon for the first time in many years and found it every bit as enchanting as it was when I first read it as a child. As with any collection of stories, some are more interesting than others. When I was little, "San Fairy Ann" and the "Clumber Pup" were my favorites, the former is still lyrical and deeply moving, the latter, sweet and gently humorous. I was glad to find this collection again. Reading it was like meeting childhood friends after a long absence.
I read this book in primary school (more than 20 years ago - gulp!), but I couldn't remember much of it. I enjoyed reading it again. Some of the stories are rather sexist by today's standards (princesses and seamstresses getting married off without their consent, and suchlike), but mostly they are lovely. The first half of the book are fairytale-like stories involving faraway kingdoms, princesses and magic. The second half contains stories of "olde England" and I think I enjoyed these the most.
This is a sweet little collection of fairy tale-type stories for kids. As with most collections, there were some hits, and some misses. Overall, though, there were more hits than misses for me. My favorite stories were: "The King's Daughter Cries for the Moon"; "The Goldfish"; "The Clumber Pup"; "The Little Dressmaker"; "In Those Days"; "Pennyworth"; "San Fairy Ann"; and "The Kind Farmer".
A wonderful mix of stories - fairy tales, realism, fables, humor. All of them remind you that there is good in the world. Eleanor Farjeon could really write, and the illustrations are charming. I especially liked her version of a Cinderella story, in which the heroine rejects the prince and marries the footman instead.
I first read select stories from The Little Bookroom when I was much younger. I recently returned to this book from my childhood...and it has once again captured my heart. Westwoods, my favorite tale in the collection, is one of the best short stories/fairy tales out there. The Little Dressmaker is another favorite.
A collection of Eleanor Farjeon's own folk tales - some of which are better than others.Highly recommended, by me, tho' is: Westwoods - if yr attention isn't caught by the opening conversation I'd be very surprised.That story, the quality of the writing & the story itself alone will keep this book on my shelves.
My Eleanor Farjeon kick fizzled right here. After Kings and Queens, Heroes and Heroines, The Little book Room (in spite of its engaging title) failed to live up to the high level of the first two. Not that it's bad - the Edward Ardizzone illustrations are charming and some of the stories are quite good, but most are predictable and pedestrian.
I love these stories. They have a quality of the fairy tale based on truth, so that one feels the author has somehow rediscovered tales of real events and people, previously lost to time and memory, and opened them for us like a gift. Like so many of the tales we carry from our history, each story has something to ponder, to add to the fabric of our own lives.
This is exactly the type of book I loved as a child and still love today. I was especially enchanted with the story "And I Dance Mine Own Child," which combines some of my favorite topics: English village life in the 19th century, old songs, and old books. Plus, in this story it's music and a book that save the day! I've always loved Edward Ardizzone's drawibgs, too.
Artfully crafted and suffused with magic, these stories are populated with kings and princesses, simpletons and talking animals, often turning the wisdom of adults on its ear to side with children and underdogs instead. Suited to reading aloud by families with school-age children.
A charming little collection of short stories by Farjeon. They have a mystical/fairytale like quality but also have a touch of realism and morals too. They are well written and vary in subject and setting. Perfect for children and adults!
