https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/19661.Family_Matters
The heart has its reasons which reason knows nothing of.    Flipping through the pages, my heart leapt many times; those waves bearing the ring of countenance were from still stream but the ones with ripples of accusation roared thunder. Accusation? Accusation hurled towards whom? The fictional characters delicately brought to life by the stinging brush of the author or the guilty, manipulative, egocentric, conceited character of mine? Did my fingers pause typing these words defining myself? T
And it also confirmed my worst fears: I am no angel and the pristine white enveloping me is a well-fabricated dwelling that I carry with temporary aplomb, aware somewhere deep inside that some of its bricks are turning cancerous by my vices.Why, else, should I feel tormented at the sight of a 78-year old, Parkinson’s afflicted Nariman Vakeel, whose profound literary mind is reduced to a negligible fraction, not by the disease and a broken leg but by the invalidating abandonment of Coomy and Jal, his step-children?
He maneuvered with utmost care, almost gracefully imitating Nariman’s movements, not ruffling our senses acutely but with a gentle thrust, like shaking a medicine bottle to get the mix right and placed a few shards of mirror on our palms: they did not cut, they did not intimidate, they simply showed our reflection.
What haunts Nariman, besides the fact that his independent life has been stripped away --is his memories for the woman he loved --forbidden to marry --torments him again and againI'll Be Back.....5 stars so far....(if it goes down by the end of the book - I'll change the stars then)STAGE 2: Nariman is still the central character in my mind.
The deeper I think about Nariman, the more it's clear he is suffering from all the most cherish things in life: love, health, happiness, and freedom.
My 76 year old retired professor friend ( who passed on his thoughts to me about 'how to read the book "Ulysses", by James Joyce), is also in great health, happy, loved, and thriving in all areas of his life.
It is not because of my familiarity with the physical surroundings or the Parsi community, but the fact that Mistry writes a simple story of nameless ordinary faces with astonishing lives.
Old age and Parkinson’s disease has not only bed-ridden Nariman but made him a burden on his financially challenged children.
Nariman could never marry his true love Lucy, for she was a Catholic, he could not bring his step-daughter (Coomy) to accept him as her father and now he was the sole reason for the rifts between his children.
But in the end all human beings became candidates for compassion, all of us, without exception...and if we could recognize this from the beginning, what a saving in pain and grief and misery..."This thought from Yezad (ch 17) sums up his moment of insight in this teeming story of generational family "matters", complicated by inter-religious bickering, unfaithfulness of various kinds, jealousies, rivalries and surrounded by the massively overwhelming city of Bombay, being reborn (but not really changed) as Mumbai.Mistry is a master of the detail.
While I still preferred A Fine Balance of the two stories I've read by him (it was grander in scale), the more intimate Family Matters is still 100 percent 5-star fare with rich, evocative, Dickensian characters, set against the sprawling, corrupt, bustling backdrop of Bombay-soon-to-be-Mumbai, India.When the 79-year-old patriarch of a Parsi family Nariman--recently diagnosed with Parkinson's disease--breaks his ankle and becomes bedridden, his stepson Jal and stepdaughter Coomy become overwhelmed caring for him, and enlist the help of their half-sister, Roxana.
This premise allows Mistry to explore many social problems in the Bombay of this novel - poverty, care of the elderly, religious intolerance, corruption, gambling, the caste system.I immediately enjoyed the slight culture shock of being plunged into this Parsi Zoroastrian family and its bitter-sweet domestic dramas.
Family Matters  is a beautifully written account of both life in Bombay and the Parsi Zorastican culture as well as the universal experience of aging and for that I recommend it.Certainly, I will be revisiting Rohinton Mistry in the future.
What, I didn't review Family Matters? Okay, here is the review :Rohinton Mistry -three novels, three five star ratingsWow
(Nariman recognizes the parallel, shaking his head that, having taught Lear so many times, he didn’t learn its lessons.) Luckily Mistry doesn’t follow the tragedy through to its full extent; one particularly odious character gets a proper comeuppance, and the innocent one who suffers is a minor player.As to ageing parents, this is a pretty relentlessly bleak picture, but there are some sparks of light: joy in life’s little celebrations, and unexpected kindnesses, like neighbor Daisy being willing to come play her violin any time Nariman is distressed.
But in this case, I really must stress that Family Matters is one of the best books I have ever read.
I never re-read books, but this is one of those rare gems that even I want to return to.
If you took all of Shakespeare's tragedies, condensed them into a story about one family, and set it in Bombay in the 1990s, this book would be the result.
There are several funny and witty moments throughout the book, but overall the tone is one of heart-crushing poignancy.
Bombay and his protagonist's love and hate for the rotting and still lovely and lively place is one of the topics he adresses in "Family Matters" and maybe I should be thankful to Mehta that he helped me understand some of the political and social allusions which Mistry presents without explaining them for unenlightened readers - not a minus in my opinion as there's plenty of information somewhere else on the Shiv Sena party, on Zoroastrianism and housing situation in Bombay/Mumbai (hard to decide which name to use as through this book I've learned that even for the inhabitants it's a question of faith to opt for one or the other).
When Nariman’s circumstances mean he moves to stay with his biological daughter and her family, the focus of the story moves with him and we see Yezad, the husband, now scheming to attempt to make ends meet with an additional member of the household (an expensive one, at that, with his medical requirements).There’s an obvious play on words at work in the title where “Family Matters” can mean both "Family Topics" and "Family Is Important".
As I say, I nearly put it down after 100 pages (it is far easier to put down a library book than it is one that you have paid good money for!), but then things picked up and the middle (and largest) section of the book was an interesting and absorbing story.
A Fine Balance comes very close to my idea of a perfect novel, so I doubted that Rohinton Mistry would be able to deliver something of similar calibre a second time.
Family Matters is an excellent book, but it doesn’t quite pack the same punch.Like A Fine Balance, this novel is set in Mumbai (then Bombay, and the nationalistic name change is an important plot point).
In the midst of these times of change, we follow an extended family: Nariman, who slowly succumbing to Parkinson’s; his two step-children, Jal and Coomy; his daughter, Roxana; and Roxana’s husband, Yezad, and their two children, Jehangir, and Murad.
The best thing about Rohinton Mistry is he has got the beauty of capturing the little unnoticed experiences of a common mans life.
Talking about the book, the literary fiction is set during the time of Babri Masjid fall and rise of Shiv Sena.
The politically fouled air and terror among the people affecting the life of Yezad and Mr. Kapur family changes the course of plot.
The book also portrays the animosity one develops against their own family members as the clock ticks.
Its not a fast read book i should say.
We assume old people are not right in their heads.
People are who they are and unfortunately we often fail in coping with sick and/or elderly in our own family.The book was realistic.
When you read stories about how people have a hard time because they get caught in a war or a storm or genocide, you watch them fight to survive and you feel a bit of hope for mankind.
This book is about not only the importance of family, but also about aging and how the young and old have so much to teach each other, but the message is clear that we rarely have the energy to stop and learn from each other.

Tai laikant "Šeimos reikalus", oi kaip jis mane purtė!Narimanas jau senas.
Tačiau Kumė nuolat skundžiasi ir dejuoja, kaip jai sunku šokinėti aplink tėvą, kokia didžiulė jis jai našta.
Narimanas turi ir savo dukterį - Roksaną.
Roksana mielai priglaudė tėvą kelioms savaitėms, tačiau tos savaitės vis nesibaigia - Kumė vis randą priežasčių Narimano nepasiimti.
Roksana neprieštarauja, tačiau nauji išbandymai pamažu griauna jos šeimą...Rohinton Mistry vėl tai padarė - nuo knygos sunku akis atplėšt.
Matome kaip priimti papročiams palankūs sprendimai griauna jaunų žmonių gyvenimus ir iš liūdesio ir neteisybės gimsta net kelias kartas besitęsiantis pyktis ir nepasitenkinimas.
"Šeimos reikalai" knyga kaip ir gyvenimas: visoks.
Nariman, and later Roxana and Jehanger, clearly had their moment of testing and became stronger people with increased self-confidence and more insight into their families.
Watching them through Roxana's eyes (who is Jehanger's mother and Nariman's daughter), made me think this is why people continue to create families in spite of the shoving and shaping families do to our destinies.
I had read this book a long time ago but still remember it as it dealt with a slightly different aspect. This is the story of a Parsi family living in Mumbai as they progress through life. It was like reading through the diary of the family members as it slowly moves towards the end.May be I would read it again sometimes to see what has changed with me being 35 now and also my own growth as a reader as well. Well this was good enough that I remember the book still. Well Keep on Reading folks.
Beh, non serve un libro per ricordarci di aiutare i genitori anziani, ma visto che mi piace leggere libri ambientati in India e conoscendo già l'autore perché mi era piaciuto moltissimo Un perfetto equilibrio, ho deciso di leggerlo.Questioni di famiglia narra la vita di Nariman, un indiano di religione parsi che non può sposare la donna che ama perché questa appartiene a un'altra fede religiosa.
La figliastra già dopo pochi giorni non ne può più di questa incombenza e decide di interpellare la sorellastra che vive con il marito e due figli piccoli.
beautiful, beautiful and again - beautiful. what an amazing book !!'a fine balance' by the same author is also on my top list, and i'm so glad this one made it there as well. i simply don't have enough words to explain this book ... just read it ... now ... :)
Mistry transports us into the life of a struggling Parsi couple in Mumbai/Bombay.
His language graphically conjures up the characters, a tiny apartment, the marital tensions, the feelings of two young boys, the stresses of trying to cope with too little money and a naive employer, and particularly the deterioration in the health of the grandfather.
Nariman Vakeel is a 79 year old widower forces by circumstances and parents to reject his true love and marry within the Parsi community.
The story portrays his sad memories and the difficulties of living in a deteriorating apartment with his two now middle-aged stepchildren; one bitter and vindictive, the other pliable and mild-mannered.
Nariman Vakeel has a fall, Jal and Coomy his step children, send their father to their half sister Roxanne.
So in a fit of meanness they send their step father to Roxanne.
Once Nariman Vakeel is at Roxanne's they plot and plan to keep him there for as long as they can, so they undertake extensive renovation of their house.
You would think that when Roxanne and her family come to live in the palatial mansion that it would be better times for the family, but everything changes, especially for Roxanne’s husband Yezda who from a simple fun loving man changes radically to a conservative Zoroastrian.
As the grandfather of the family, Nariman is likely the best candidate to be declared the main character of this novel, but it is truly and ensemble cast, with Nariman's step children Jal and Coomy, his daugther and son-in-law Roxanna and Yezda and his grandchildren Janghela and Murad all playing important roles.This is an exquisite novel.
The novel begins with Nariman as an old man, suffering from the early stages of Parkinsons disease.
Quickly the crisis of the novel occurs as Nariman suffers an accident, rendering him immobile.
Just arrived from Israel through BM.This is the first book written by Rohinton Mistry that I've read and I really liked it.The story is about the family of Nariman Vakeel, a 79 year old Parsi widower who suffers from Parkinson's disease.
By consequence, Roxanna's family will face with new challenges, from economical point of view and her children's education as well.Some religious and social issues are raised by the author along the narrative, specially concerning the Parsi's heritage after the Partition of India.A very realistic story written by some sense of humor.
Or is it FAMILY matters?
http://thedianerehmshow.org/shows/200...That interview was part of the book tour that, unfortunately, occurred too soon after 9-11.
According to a November 3, 2002 BBC report: “Canadian author, Rohinton Mistry, has cancelled the second half of his US book tour because of racial profiling at US airports.
… As a person of colour he was stopped repeatedly and rudely at each airport along the way - to the point where the humiliation of both he and his wife has become unbearable," a memo from the writer's US publisher Aflred A Knopf said.” http://news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/entertainm...Enough about the title, how was the book?
And as usual, with any story written by an Indian immigrant, I read the story personally -- ultimately, this was a tribute to a city from the eyes of one far away from it, revealed through distinct memories and descriptions of photographs and references to Hindi songs and idioms, and charatcers highlighting its chaotic blend of creed and religion and class.
Many tears were shed reading this one, as Bombay was my own home for 5 years, a city which I love dearly, though perhaps my love has more to do with my memories of it than with the present city itself, one from which now I am now so far removed.
Nors Rohinton Mistry "Trapi pusiausvyra" knyga tik buvo perversta, bet taip ir neperskaityta iki galo, tačiau nauja autoriaus knyga "Šeimos reikalai" buvo šioks toks iššūkis man.
Kitas nemenkas iššūkis buvo tas, kad vietomis knyga buvo pradėjusi erzinti savo nukrypimais nuo pasakojimo apie Indijos politiką, įstatymus, ekonomiką, todėl ir pasakojimas apie aprašomą šeimą tarsi nublankdavo.
Kalbant apie pačią istoriją, tai pasakojimas apie tris parsų šeimos, gyvenančias Mumbajuje, kartas, kurios pribloškia savo tikroviškumu.
Kiekviena karta skirtinga, kiekviena į savo šeimos gerbiamą narį, kuris serga, žiūri labai skirtingai, kad nepaprastą vaidmenį šiame kūrinyje vaidina skurdas, kuris yra neatsiejamas šios šalies žmonių gyvenime.
It was like reading a play with the characters performing so well. The characters like the letter-writer,shop owner, violinist, gambler were very unique though playing the supporting cast were quite unique and lovable too. Sad that I was ignorant about this Indian author. Really loved reading this book.
A very slow novel that contain heart-felt moments and funny little devious schemes. Thia book, as I found out through my English teacher, has deeper meaning than just family. WHY CAN'T SOMETHING JUST BE SIMPLE. WHY MUST I OVER-ANALYSE THIS?
While there are political undertones to the book,quite definitely, two major themes being the orthodox v reform debate within the Parsi community, and communalism in Bombay following the Babri riots, and while these events materially and directly affect the lives of the protagonists, the spotlight is, to a much greater degree, on the characters themselves and their relationship with each other.And Rohinton Mistry really is one of the finest writers I've ever had the privilege of coming across.
More so than any of his previous books I think (which all have their own strengths) characters truly come to life in Family Matters.
