https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/20811.Halloween
I loved how you get the thoughts of Laurie and some other characters in the book that's not JUST in the movie!
Wow, if he's looking at me, then I'm in trouble!Moving along and it's after school and Laurie is walking home with her friends when they run into Micheal in the car again.
He saw a huge dark figure with a white grotesque face carrying a limp body of a girl out of the Wallaces' garage.
I love Micheal =) Laurie's nails dug into his shoulder as she stared like a soldier in shell shock at the empty place on the lawn.
Halloween is almost upon us! This, my dear friends, is the ultimate Halloween book. It's literally called Halloween. I'm sure you've all heard of the movie (if not, shame on you). Curtis Richards' story gives us insight into Michael's psyche. This novelization is far more graphic than its on-screen version. It's more detailed. I enjoyed the book, just not to the extent that I enjoyed the movie.    "It was the bogeyman, wasn't it?" she murmured."As a matter of fact, it was."    The plot is simply
This, my dear friends, is the ultimate Halloween book.
I enjoyed the book, just not to the extent that I enjoyed the movie.
The best thing about the new Halloween movie is that Ben Tramer is alive and Michael and Laurie are no longer siblings.
I can ship Michael/Laurie now without it being weird, right?
Do you know how many erotic Halloween stories there are on Archive Of Our Own?
That's why I love being a part of it.Anywho, if you're into slasher-thrillers with good plot, read this novelization.Here are my Top 5 favorite scary books of all time.1.
As good as the movie!!! This is the novelization by Curtis Richards based on the original screenplay done for the film by John Carpenter & Debra Hill. IF YOU KNEW BY HEART THE FILM...IS IT WORTHY TO READ THE NOVEL? Quick answer... YES!!! ...but those are movies. You can always turn the television off if you get too scared. You can't turn off real life. I had already watched the film several times in the past, but since I was able to get a copy of it like four years ago, I set a "tradition"
So, I am truly glad of having decided to read the novelization.I think that besides the obvious title of the film that makes it a perfect choice to watch on Halloween's night, a key element of the story is that while it's highly unlikely that you will meet a vampire, zombie or another kind of paranormal monster on Halloween, it's dangerously disturbing the chance of meeting a serial killer.
No.Let me explain, my only complain about the movie is that while Laurie Strode is starting to freak out during the day due encountering several times with Michael Myers, and it's noticeable (and understandable) that she is quite nervous about it, suddenly she is not believing to young Tommy, at night, when he tells her that he is watching "The Bogeyman" out there.
dare.
as 6 year old Michael Myers answers the demanding wicked voices in his head with a violent attack on HALLOWEEN night.Dressed as a clown, and later referred to as "IT" (sound familiar Stephen King fans?) even after 15 years in exile at the Warren County Sanitarium, Michael returns and the evil is still not gone, only darker and more viciously savage.My wonderful vintage copy (see bookcover) of HALLOWEEN begins with an old horror tale that backdrops Michaels mysterious voices from a time long ago "in a foggy vale in Northern Ireland at the dawn of the Celtic race" on the eve of Samhain <(the Druid festival of the dead).......a curse so powerful, people would bolt their doors in fear, but to no avail........If you remember the frightening movie, the novel will bring it all back in spades with the silly teenie-bopper conversations and an atmosphere reminiscent of the time.
- My Description - Halloween - The time of year for the giving of candy and fear of ghosts.
Halloween 1963 - Young Michael Myers brutally stabs his older sister with a large kitchen knife.
He's come home for unfinished business.
He's come home to kill.
- My Review -For anyone who has watched and loved the movie, Halloween, you'll love this book.
It gives deeper insight to the background of Samhain, The origin of Halloween.
This book was a tad bit different than the movie.
I recommend reading this in October.
I read this in October and it was perfect.
Finally you come to learn about the background story why Michael Myers started to kill! Fantastic read, okay, not the highest literary style and skills, but extremely compelling and eerie. If you know the movie (I watched the whole series for several times) you can still experience more details you missed between the scenes. Absolutely recommended! If you want to get in the mood for Halloween or Samhain this is the book you should focus your attention to. Now!
Movie novelizations/tie-ins usually suck, but this was very good. Almost as good as John Carpenter's cult movie. Almost.
I think the 1970's film was better, but this book was really amazing, too. It was well-written and descriptive and very gripping and suspenseful.
(Cover of the first Bantam mass-market printing from 1979. I don't normally read novelizations, but this one supposedly adds a lot of depth and backstory to Michael Myers. Too bad it's nearly impossible to find in decent condition for less than $100, which is crazy.)
Some of these actually became quite collectible, depending on the cult nature of the film, and scarcity of the first pressing.Halloween, based on the now iconic horror movie, was one of a number of film related horror titles Bantam books was doing at the time, most with embossed, garish covers.
The exception was that author Curtis Richards ended up delivering a tight suspense novel, embellishing on the rather thin plot and creating a back-story so effective it was later used in the Halloween sequel, along with dialogue lifted right from the book.
People read novelizations of movies either to relive favorite moments, perhaps to get an extra insight, or because they just wanted a new way to experience a film. Me? All of the above. What a shame Curtis Richards wasn't up to the task. His writing is simplistic to the point of being juvenile. This is someone doing a job, and poorly, not writing from a deep love for the genre or the subject. The real monster in his book is weary cliche.
I was pleasantly surprised - this gives the characters so much more depth, and we find out so much more about Michael Myers and what makes him tick.
We also see what happened during Michael's stay at the Sanitorium.
The plot stays faithful to the film, whole scenes are exactly the same but there's always a little extra something to ramp up the tension.The sex and violence is pretty graphic here - there are no holds barred - but overall if you're a fan of the film, this is not just another tie-in, it's a real treat.
Überraschend solide geschriebenes Buch zum Film, bei dem ich sogar etwas lernen konnte:Die Taktik, bei den Slasher-Szenen die Augen zuzuhalten oder mal eben etwas aus der Küche zu holen, funktionieren anders als beim Film beim Buch nicht.Wenn vom Bösen besessene Kinder groß werden... Anders als March in BAD SEED lässt Richards keinen Zweifel daran, warum Michael Myers "böse" ist - und mit Psychologie hat das nichts zu tun. Gibt es eigentlich das Genre "Kinderhorror"? Mir fielen auf Schlag etliche Titel ein.Fazit: 3,5 Sterne.
I'm a little biased since this is one of my favorite movies of all-time. It's hard to take off the "fanboy glasses" sometimes. The story unfolds pretty much the same as the movie; however, there is a dash of other details sprinkled in here and there. It's not worth the $300 price tag (it's long out of print and this is what it will cost you if you find it out in the wild); however the ebook can be found online. It's a fun read if you're a fan of the movie. Also, the cover is ridiculous and awesome.
This is far different from the film, which is why I didn't like it.It delves into the reasoning of Michael Myers, the reason he is so creepy is because he's just there for no apparent cause.
Loomis was a nice element in this, he was the only one actually trying to stop Michael.The end, having Michael shot 6 times over the balcony of the Doyle house (An error Halloween II failed to correct) & Loomis looks over, only to see Michael has vanished like a ghost.
Truly on of the best film s of all time.
Overall, this novel was not terribly far from the movie, but I really did'nt care for it.
More like 3 1/2. Fun read, especially for the origins of the curse of Samhain and Michael Myers' life in Smith's Grove Sanitarium. Just wish the characters could have been more fleshed out.
Later in the book Loomis and Sheriff Brackett were discussing how Michael's great-grandfather Nordstrom (his mother's father's father) had heard voices too and had even murdered two people at a harvest dance in the 1890's and was hanged for it.Shortly before murdering his sister, he goes trick or treating at his own house on Peecher Street with other kids from the neighborhood.
In the film, most aren't close enough to him to wonder if it's a mask until they're being murdered by him.When Loomis and Sheriff Brackett (Annie's father) go into Michael's old house and find the dead dog, they say his intestines are hanging out.Shortly before Annie's killed, she's at Lindsey's, brushing her own hair.
Listings for the book on Amazon are not cheap, and that makes me sad that many fans of the film will never read this novelization.Here's my review.What a ride!
It delves into Michael's childhood, including interactions between his family (left out of the film) and an in-depth glimpse into his head.
Also left out of the film, are sexual motivations of the killings, which humanize Michael even more.
For any fan of the Halloween films, this novel is a fun, quick read that accurately and carefully takes you on a scare-filled ride into the world of "Halloween."
‘Halloween’ is about little Michael Myers who kills his elder sister after repeatedly hearing a mysterious voice.
Years later when he escapes from the sanitarium, he stalks three teenage babysitters while his psychiatrist and the police attempt to track him down.
The background behind the voice was given at the beginning of the book.
It was interesting, dark and sad all at the same time but most importantly, it helped explain the existence and owner of the voice.
The part where Michael killed his sister was chilling in its simplicity.
The three babysitters were exasperating as their actions throughout the story were ridiculous.
This book was just discovered by me yesterday and I flipped when I found out someone wrote a novel based off the movie.
There are moments in this book that werent in the movie, which gave a little more depth to the characters and story overall.
I was always researching the Curse of Thorns and the beginning of the book never came up.
If it's not an actual part of the back story for Michael Myers than I would like to know what is the correct history, because the celtic history is true, I know that much.
Speaking of climaxes, some of the sex scenes in this book are extremely graphic, which makes me wonder if Richard Curtis (the real name of "Curtis Richards") didn't secretly want to be a romance novelist before deciding to go into the horror genre.With all of that late '70s and early '80s erotic silliness aside, the book is still very good, and I found myself imagining the (sometimes roughly) corresponding movie scenes while reading.
So, if you're a fan of the movie or just want to be scared, give this one a try - if you can find it.
Well, biased because of the film, and this version has several typos and occasionally suspect formatting - but it's Halloween!
There's also an interesting back storyto Michae Myers which the 1978 movie (still the best, duh) really didn't get a chance to touch on.
Not sure if explaining the evil would have worked anyway, in the movie (avoid the sequels after 2 when it really gets pagan child of Myers blah blah blah).
This is the pulpy horror classic with a few interesting extras, well worth checking out, there are some good places to get hold of a digital copy as the original paperback seems to go for silly money now.
Not bad for a movie tie-in.
I would have given it a higher rating, but I really didn't like the author's choice to try and explain why Michael Myers did what he did.
The author also basically made him a sexual sadist which is so far from what Myers represented in the movies.
He took away the thing that made Myers scary and that was no one knew why, not the characters and not us.
Lovecraft put it best: “The oldest and strongest emotion of mankind is fear, and the oldest and strongest kind of fear is fear of the unknown”
The novelization of "Halloween" was quite a quick read. I didn't expect literary genius, but the book was fairly well crafted and kept me involved. While I did enjoy some of the "fleshing out" of the characters, I truly didn't enjoy the characterization of Michael Myers. The Celtic angle was a nice touch, but I think that the lack of motive in the Carpenter film actually made the character more intriguing. Either way, this was a lovely addition to my spooky bookshelf -- courtesy of my lovely girlfriend.
It's a rare thing when the novelization of a movie actually becomes an essential read, but the novels of the early "Halloween" films manage to pull it off, fleshing out the stories with the Samhain mythology that was cut from the final films, only briefly hinted at in "Halloween II." Why is Michael Myers slowly metamorphosed from an insane youth to a nearly invincible figure, growing in size as time passes? The movies won't address it, but the book does.
Loved the film. Loved the novel at least as much. Was interesting to hear Michael Myers' thoughts and the odd memory of him as a child. I wasn't so keen on the little explanation at the beginning about the curse in ancient times and so on, it felt a bit unnecessary and I would've preferred the author to have left it out completely. Very good, which is probably not something that's said too often about novelisations.
It was very good,similar to the movie, yet different, it's kind of hard to explain, but I liked the book better than the original movie. I read this book when I was about 11 or 12. I recommend this to anyone who is a fan of the Halloween series. I really liked how it grasped the idea of true horror. No movie or book scares me, but this one somehow did. I think John Carpenter did an amazing job on the movie, but I do have to admit, I like the book better. I totally recommend it!
If you like the movie Halloween, then you will like the book just as much. With more background information about the happenings on the eve of Samhain, we come to understand why Michael did what he did and became the monster we have grown to love to hate. This book also takes you along the screenplay of the movie. Great book. I can't emphasize it enough.
This book is an excellent tie-in with the movie adaptation. If you are a fan of the Halloween movies you should enjoy this book as well. The book goes deeper into the backstory of why Michael Myers is the way he is. There were parts of the book where I felt like I was reading the screenplay, however Curtis Richards succeeded at expanding on the mythology and creating a suspenseful read.
My first "novelization". It is hard for me to judge as a stand-alone book but as an accompaniment to the film I think it's well done. The motivation for Michael Myers to kill is expanded upon and specifically why "frolicking" teenagers suffer the most (I found it more credible anyway than Friday the 13th's "sexy times kill babies in the water" back story).
