https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/897461.Islandia
Lang ultimately finds himself in a position where he must decide between being himself, his full, awakened self, his Islandian self, and fight the invading armies seeking to subjugate Islandia, or being the US Consul.Even though it means the US, in fact the whole world, will be forced out of Islandia again, even though it means the other Islandian girl he's fallen in love with (and lost that pesky virginity to), Hytha, will be lost to him forever, he fights with his friends for the country he loves, and he leaves it knowing he's done the only possible honorable and honest thing.Back in the US, Mary, the young lady-friend he's corresponded with these years, and he take up again, and get married.
Ultimately, though, there are two stories intertwined in the book: the story of Islandia itself and the political and social crisis it faces between two opposing viewpoints: whether it should embrace the world at large and open its borders to outsiders, or remain true to the old ways and follow Islandian ideals; and the story of John Lang, a young man who becomes consul for the United States in Islandia and goes through the dual processes of learning about himself and his direction in life at the same time as he learns about the strange new country around him.
Despite this the story and experiences of our protagonist, John Lang, still remain central to everything as we experience first hand not only his immersion into a new world with customs and beliefs far outside his normal purview, but also witness his growth from relatively callow youth with little to no direction in his life to a man who has weathered many storms in order to find the road to his heart's desire.
Highly recommended for those who wish to see things in a new and intriguing way and are willing to put up with a slow pace and introspective narrator in order to visit a new world.
To give a mere plot synopsis would not likely compel one to read the book, but I think for me the fascination comes from the very real world that Wright creates in _Islandia_ tied to the fact that he populates it with characters that are very real and complex.
In addition to this its label as ‘utopian literature’ points out the fact that Wright is not simply telling a traveller’s tale to expound on the wonders of some imaginary place, but is using this as a means to explore political and philosophical issues which, while he may not ‘solve’ them, lead the reader to ask meaningful questions and certainly adds even more depth to the world and story he has created.I’ve certainly noticed it on previous readings of this book, but one of the things I saw the importance of again was Wright’s creation of the Islandian notion of ‘tunefulness’.
There aren't very many towns or central social hubs, so socializing is often accomplished by staying as a guest in someones farm house as you are traveling through the country, and you can do that totally unannounced.Islandia is a utopia of sorts - they believe that progress in their culture will not lead to improving their lives.
In a sense, our society has shifted from being family centric to friend centric, as friends are the people we hang out with socially in the cities, where most of us live.
It's a slow book, Islandia, but it is such a fiercely imagined world, with so many insights into human nature, that you feel like you're learning secrets about life as you read.
It's a utopian novel written for private use in the early part of the last century.
It has had a cult following for the better half of a century, and with good reason.
Though Islandia doesn't really exist, you feel as though it does, if you could only get a visa to go.
it makes me question not only the aspects of my home society- as any good utopia or anti-utopia does- but also the ingrained expectations i have of what a novel is.
this utopia is such for only the right people, who happen to resemble the author's native heritage, in this case: white, intelligent, straight, healthy, moral, rational even in irrational moments, given more to dialog to solve conflicts rather than violence.
if you like to read immersive long books with little plot, if you like the utopian ideas and portrayals, if the romance of better humans in a better world intrigues, if imaginative escape appeals...
I read this book when I was in high school, and have read it again many times since.
But Lang is conflicted, because he finds much to admire in Islandian values, rooted in a deeply agrarian way of life.It's a lovely story, full of excitement and texture.
Like Lord of the Rings, it has enormous backstory, so that people feel they know the place, and there is so much more than appears in the novel.It is a book that is part of the texture of my life and thought.
Wright produced a complete geology of Islandia (including some maps included in the book), a history of the literature, families, properties, population tables, peerage, and book length history.
Islandia is a fictional utopia.
Wright created a world that works.
I writhed, frowned, gritted teeth, ran away, came back, connived, twisted, shook my head, and when the last page was turned, I wished there was a version written by an Islandian to help me adjust.
The extraordinary beauty of these 1000+ pages is that the tenets that make life the sublime simple joy on Islandia can be replicated within ourselves.
How I long for Islandia! Beautifully written, and so well created I almost think this must be real. This book will stay with me for the rest of my life.
The Islandian fellow returns home and later our American, John Lang, is appointed consul to Islandia, a country as xenophobic as Japan before Perry.
Lang’s friend Dorn is on the opposing side and the plot of the first part of the book involves the politics between the first families of Islandia as to whether or not it would be good for the country to have choo choo trains, telephones and combustion engines or whether the Islandians would continue to travel by horse and wagon.
Ugh. I never cared about the "fish not really out of water after all" protagonist, and the Islandians are generally cold, reticent, and hard to love.
I'm sorry, but the insane amount of encyclopedic minutiae that author has provided ultimately doesn't make the Islandians any more interesting.
But after plowing through it, with vast passages leaving me thinking "Something yet nothing is happening so why am I expected to care?", and the author sending me down deep diving to explore the esoteric culture that doesn't even strive to be very interesting, and plot lines that are both opaque and turgid..., for me, finishing this book was like running a marathon.
A large portion of the book is devoted to the political maneuvering of Islandians wanting to open their country to trade and modern conveniences, and those who want to maintain their country and culture status quo.
Lang, as U.S. Consul, must represent the pro-trade group, even though Islandian friends and perhaps his own heart feel otherwise.
Lang and the reader share his dilemmas about relationships and where to spend the rest of his life – in the U.S. or Islandia, if given the chance.The author himself graduated from Harvard in 1905, then attended Harvard Law School.
The protagonist lurches from woman to woman as though the only reason he came to Islandia is to get laid, which is a typical modern American tourist approach, granted, but most of the book is spent in his dealing with these three distinct definitions of love and wrestling with his monogamist inner guilt, which he eventually sheds, only to shift that same problem to the American woman he brings back to settle with him and lets her endure it all herself.Nevertheless I did promise to say what I liked about it.
Islandia is a book I discovered during my hippie days and remains one of most influential works affecting my life and my ambivalent feelings about humanity's obsessive and arguably unthoughtful and largely uncontrolled embrace and development of an overly complex and technologically dependent world.
I am getting ready to reread it again to see if it still affects me in such profound and unsettling ways.Austin Tappan Wright perceived the inherent downsides of such an obsession by the "developed" world - pollution, personal disconnection with the natural world, greed, sensory dilution, and personal disconnection between individuals and within small groups, from lovers and extended family units to the village.
The conclusion reveals that there is no real happy ending to any of the questions and problems that arise from human interaction with the environment and, like Tolkien's narratives, compromise is sometimes necessary and invariably enforced.Islandia is a Utopian fantasy, but contains the age old Edenic myth at its core.
What should we do about this factor that makes us so different from the rest of our fellow travellers in the life-world?Should we stand our ground and refuse to allow progress to destroy what we love or should we compromise?
Will too much compromise simply cause what we love to die of neglect?
"weeding the collection," i came across this book.
At some point I reread the book, but could remember nothing definite except for having a certain fondness.
So I reread again despite the fact that at almost a 1000 yellowing, thin pages with small print was not something I really wanted to do.
But I couldn't weed it without finding what it was I liked about it.
And I liked it.
Particularly the parts of the story that had some action and were related to descriptions of things and characters present in the book.
Nothing mystical about this book despite the fact that he wrote around the same time as Tolkien.
The questions facing Islandians over how to co-exist with modern nations but still maintain their own identity and way of life are still pertinent as the world shrinks ever smaller.Re-reading again in 2018: several things are resonating this time around.
1) The isolationist policies - and how impossible it would be to live that way in today's world.
In the past I read through descriptions in a hurry.
This time I have been much more conscious of the actual writing - and as a result I think I am delving deeper into each character than I have in past readings.
A masterpiece, plain and simple -- but it's not for everyone.
This is a sedate, thoughtful novel of radical ideas and subtle characterization delivered in the stately prose that writers still used as the nineteenth century turned to the twentieth.
If it is occasionally tarnished by sensibilities of the time, we should overlook that in favor of the considered utopian perspective Wright espouses.
He looks at our own world from the outside; it is an exploration of culture shock.
I first read this book as a teenager, and it is one of the few novels I've ever read that had a profound influence on my world view and internal value system.
I first read Islandia in 1972, during the the Vietnam war, and I have re-read it at least 10 times.
It is one of my favorite books of all time.
I would like it to be on the required reading list for all high school students.
For that matter, I would like it to be required reading for everyone in the Congress and the White House.
I think Austin Tappan Wright was a genius, and I would love to own a first edition of this book.
I highly recommend it, especially at this time of America's involvement in Afghanistan and Iraq.
@TheHugoAwards 1943 Retro Hugo Finalist for Best NovelAt the one-third mark, I blogged my "Field Notes from My Retro Utopian Adventure"At the two-thirds mark, I sent a few vintage postcards.4-4.5 stars (finished reading 7/1/2018)
One of my top ten all-time favorite books. I was transported to another world and I don't think I've ever really left it. Suggested to me by a salesman in a small bookstore near my college dorm...years and years ago. I don't know that salesman's name but I will always be grateful for his suggestions.
Islandia is fairly isolationist, only allowing about a hundred foreigners at a time in the country and while Lang is expected to investigate the possibility of opening up business interests there and maybe bringing this backwards place into the totally modern world of 1910, he finds himself exploring the land with an Islandian man he went to Harvard with, getting involved in their politics, learning about their culture and falling in love with all of their women.
Austin Tappan Wright worked in an American law office until his death in 1931, after which his family discovered thousands of pages devoted to an imaginary place he called Islandia.
Sociologically, Islandian language and culture might be rated more advanced than ours for having better defined and grappled with the different shades that exist in human relationships, acknowleding the inherent contradictions in pleasure and jealousy, lust and envy.
I could write an essay's worth (or several) on examining Islandian life and all of its curious detail; a fact which I find astonishing to reflect upon, given that in all its thousand pages the novel never falls into the weeds of exposition.
Their love for him is not always reciprocal, and the book spends a lot of time discussing four states of love, roughly defined as follows: alia, the love of place and family; amia, the love of friends; ania, the desire for marriage and commitment; and apia, sexual attraction.
Much of the world is still striving to achieve the peace and harmony of Islandia, and perhaps never will.SPOILERSThere is a scene near the end of the book that disturbed me a lot.
Lang had married a woman from the United States and they were going to live the rest of their lives in Islandia.
Islandia As a young man, recently married, an older friend recommended that I read Magister Ludi by Hermann Hesse along with Islandia by Austin Tappan Wright. I asked him which book was most "fun" to read and he said that Islandia is the most fun, so I read it first. That was nearly 40 years ago. I reread Islandia less than a decade later and have just recently reread it for a third time. I won’t take the trouble to write a synopsis of Islandia and thereby turn this review into a spoiler but wil
What really brought on the nostalgia though, was that descriptions of Hytha Nattana, the protagonist Lang's second great Islandian love interest, revived memories of my deceased wife.
Rereading Wright's depictions of Hytha Nattana flooded my mind with memories of times long past and of my own lost Tana, and brought many tears to my eyes.
I was about Lang's same age when I first read Islandia and while not quite so naive and inexperienced about girls, I would like to tell myself anyway, perhaps Wright's treatment of these issues helped me sort out my own feelings toward my wife and towards the opposite sex in general.
I'm never reading that final 400 pages.I started reading because Anne McCaffrey cited this book as foundational for her in her journey into writing fantasy literature.Make no mistake: this is not fantasy.Technically, it is, but only technically.
There are some good and interesting points made by and in this book for sure.But the narrator is insufferable.
His narrative arc is that he wants to have sex (which by the way is a bad motivation for a book), and he does that ~60% through, so what is supposed to keep me as a reader going?
After graduation, he pulls some family political strings and gets sent there as the American Consul.
And he falls in love, with several of the young women of Islandia, but most of all with the country itself, whose relaxed social and sexual attitudes are a stark contrast with the rather repressed American culture of the Gilded Age. It's a great work of world-building, with a series of romantic plots overlaid (and some politics, but really not all that much).
The pace is fairly gentle, but I did find myself caught up in the story, especially the awkwardness of the narrator's relationships with the women of both Islandia and the USA.
I finally finished this massive novel that is the epitome of world-building in fiction There is not much fantasy in it but there is a good cracking story about the discovery and exploration of a new continent Now I need to get to work on the paper i am working on about exploring how Tappan-Wright and other authors (including Tolkien) used paratextual elements to world-build. Have some time to read this and continue to press on when it starts to lag in narrative over description - a tremendous work of world-building!
I am glad that this is over with. Rarely can I say that skipping whole chapters does not affect you enjoyment of a book but in this case it is true. There are whole chapters where nothing happens.I have read "The Fountainhead", "Atlas Shrugged" and "Battlefield Earth" all are long but stuff happens. To top it all off the editor cut down the original to this length I am sure there was still a lot of fat to cut.
