https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/149610.Night_Without_End
When I was a lad, I very much liked Alistair MacLean novels.
The story concerns the crashing of a commercial airliner in the middle of the Greenland tundra and the attempts of the personnel of a meteorological weather station to save them.
As with most MacLean novels very little is as it seems.
Agains, as with most MacLean novels, not all of the secrets deal with the plot, but it makes finding the truth that much murkier.
It seems only the people without secrets are the three men at the weather station.
I first read this book over thirty years ago, but I remember it well.
I was eleven or twelve, and this was the first ever non children's book I read.
What had I been missing all these eleven or twelve years !I was totally captivated and this book launched me into the world of fiction.If I reread this soon, I may demote it from 'amazing' to 'really liked it'.
It did, after all, amaze me.
I did reread it ten or so years ago, and once again before that, and it has aged well.
Survivors are rescued and a decision made by the research staff to set off across the artic wastes to get them to safety before their meagre food supplies are exhausted.
But with a high-tech MacGuffin on the plane and a couple of merciless killers among the survivors, the journey turns into a battle for survival against both the elements and enemy agents.
Granted, the Cold War thrilleramics in respect of the MacGuffin are hackneyed as fuck, but MacLean has the good sense to focus instead on the gruelling journey.
A passenger crashes in the Arctic night and only three researchers are near enough to help.
Short of food and supplies, with critically wounded people on their hands, they begin a desperate escape to help - knowing all the time that at least one of them is a cold-blooded murderer.
MacLean is excellent at writing adventure stories with interesting settings, and this one works very well.
The details of the cold, ice, weather and survival techniques felt quite real to me and added up to an excellent read that kept me breathless till the final paragraphs.
One of Alistair MacLean's earliest thrillers, it's a well-paced, page-turner. Perfect setting, the frigid Greenland ice sheet, a group of scientists rush to save the passengers of a plane which has crashed on the plateau. What they find is even more surprising as some of the passengers are more than they seem. struggling to survive in sub-zero temperatures and survive a murderer in their midst, it's definitely an action packed story. Excellent stuff.
দুরদানত উততেজনা আর টানটান থরিল !একটা পলেন একসিডেনট করেছে দূর বরফের রাজযে, সাহাযযের একমাতর উপায় রেডিও টি কেউ নষট করে ফেলেছে !বারজন মানুষ, খাবার আছে সাত দিনের, সাহাযয আসতে অনতত পনের দিন !এরই মাঝে একজন একজন করে খুন হতে চলল।!লুকিয়ে আছে খুনি এই পলেন-যাতরীদের মধযেই !!!রোমাঞচ-থরিল এ অসাধারণ ! :)
দুর্দান্ত উত্তেজনা আর টানটান থ্রিল !একটা প্লেন এক্সিডেন্ট করেছে দূর বরফের রাজ্যে, সাহায্যের একমাত্র উপায় রেডিও টি কেউ নষ্ট করে ফেলেছে !বারজন মানুষ, খাবার আছে সাত দিনের, সাহায্য আসতে অন্তত পনের দিন !এরই মাঝে একজন একজন করে খুন হতে চলল।!লুকিয়ে আছে খুনি এই প্লেন-যাত্রীদের মধ্যেই !!!রোমাঞ্চ-থ্রিল এ অসাধারণ ! :)
To his credit, Maclean researched this story thoroughly, but to this reader's dismay, he shoehorned all that research directly into the narrative with long expository paragraphs that did not enhance the reader's enjoyment or propel the plot forward.
I'll keep it brief.'" Hillcrest then launches into a half-page litany of every aircraft and ship that has joined the search, providing Mason the make, model, and national origin of each one, burying Mason under an avalanche of detail (133-34).
I just felt bad Mason had to sit outside in 70-below temps while Maclean was utterly failing to impress me.
It was during the time when I was still caught up shifting from Goosebumps from R.L.Stine (written for 11-12 year olds) to Fear-street series from R.L.Stine (for 14-15 year olds-this is acc to my times, right now kids are are much smarter and probably would read heavier books than I did at a younger age than mine)Anyway, during this time I remember going through my school library, desperate for trying out something "different".
These last two years, i don't know how i got reminded of this book and just , just how much I had enjoyed reading it.
The story is about 3 scientists who are doing an investigation on the polar ice-caps.
The killers turn out to be Carazinne and Smallwood.
Like when people die, the writer should be able to give you a feeling of sadness or anger but I didn’t really get that while reading this book.
The difficulty was just what I expected, not too easy but also not too difficult.Overall, I would recommend this book, because it is just a very nice story and doesn’t take long to read at all.
This is one of books that were thrown out of our local library and brought home by my old landlord.
It’s only saving grace was to give me joy in the knowledge that I am nothing like, and have nothing to do with, the vast readership that this author enjoyed.
When he discovers that two of the survivors were responsible for the crash, and have already murdered several people, he has to try and discover their identities before they can kill everyone and escape.I somewhat enjoyed this arctic survival action novel with a strong mystery element.
It has some well described survival/action sequences, mostly of the crew struggling through the snow and cold, desperately trying to keep their ancient tractor going, and the the twists, cliffhangers and red-herrings keep coming.However, like all of Alistair Maclean's novels the characters are weak and stereotypical.
MacLean uses interesting techniques to make the reader really experience the story: the sub-zero temperatures, the interminable journey to reach rescue, and the unbearable suffering of the characters.
One characters literally freezes to death; one minute he is alive, the next minute he is frozen solid.
But the most effective technique is the use of super-long sentences to give the feeling of events going on and on and on and on without end.
The plot itself is better than average MacLean, but be aware of all the literary techniques he uses.
This is more of a literary experience than a story.
This is my first MacLean and I can only say no wonder this man's such a legend and no wonder at least three of his works (to my knowledge) turned into legendary movies.
If this book is anything of a typical representative of his opus, then his works are movies in your head.
The crew is freezing their asses off from the first till the last page, to the extent I fell victim of autosuggestion and shivered at moments without reason.
There's no filler moment in it, it doesn't drag for a second.
It's good fun and suspense from start to finish.
This one is good sample of it for sure.
Riveting story of survival in at least 40 degree below zero temperatures in Greenland at the polar ice cap. A plane crashes at a scientific research station, which does not have enough space or food for the survivors. And that's not the worst of it. A murderer is among the survivors. The pilots didn't die in the plane crash, they were shot. Now someone has destroyed the station's communication radio. A survivor with a head wound is smothered in his sleep.... Dr. Mason has to lead this group to Uplavnik, a scientific reporting station, about 200 miles away.
This scattered story about a downed airliner never quite came together for me. I enjoyed the descriptions of arctic life and travel, but it was hard to connect with or care about the characters. The narrator made a lot of bad decisions, and while that's understandable from a scientist thrown into unexpected intrigue, he didn't have to be such a smug jerk about it. That combo of self-assured cockiness and getting nearly everything wrong made him thoroughly unlikable, and so did his sudden, inappropriate romantic attachment.
the best maclean book,notwithstanding HMS ULYSSES (see my review). this ratchets the tension up unbearably,the characters are "real" and you care what happens to them.you can feel that you really are as cold as they are in the book.one of the best books i have ever read,and that has a lot of competition,as i can read about 100-120 pages an hour,and love reading,obsessively( literally,as i have pure OCD),and i have read 1000's of books
Exciting until the very last. It doesn't matter that it's old. (Except for the fact that there's no epilogue. I would have liked to know how they all managed afterwards.) The odds were impossible and probably unlikely. Still, the relentless cold he describes put the shivers in my bones without a doubt.
One of my earliest MacLean, was a teenager then and new to spy novels. I could actually feel the cold while reading, and was caught shivering many times by my parents as well as myself. Much later when I introduced my wife to MacLean I started with this, and she had the same shivers too.
Good thriller.... Very good story... Hard to keep away at night.... I only have a problem with the printing company... The print is very fine... Difficult for the naked eye to read...
A master class thriller!
In the case of Night Without End, the setting is the high Arctic and I came to it after several years of obsessively reading historical Antarctic travel books (Scott, Shackleton, Amundsen, Cherry-Garrard) so I knew my stuff on polar landscapes and was gratified to find that MacLean had worked hard to make his convincing.
But it just about works and the pacing is perfect, thanks partly to the deadliness of that freezing polar environment.(view spoiler)[For me, the story is slightly marred by possibly the worst ever chemistry between two romantic leads.
frontier: a wilderness at the edge of a settled area of a country part of speech: the airplane pass the frontier i thik they were searching something  sentence: adding to the precarious security situation, tribesmen kidnapped 18 Egyptian border guards along the frontier with Israel in Sinai Peninsula4.
grove: a small growth of trees without underbrush part of speech: here in the artic we dont see any grove  sentence: Soon after we came to Pasadena, father bought an orange grove of twenty-five acres.5.
fray:a noisy fight part of speech: i just hear a fray behind me  sentence: Armed rebels have joined the fray in recent months.mariana toro 10a
Oli kyllä niin uskomaton tarina jälleen kerran. Lääkäri, joka oli tiukassa paikassa kuin mitä parhain jääkäri. Mikään ei häntä pystynyt pysäyttämään. Silti ihan viihdyttävä teksti, toimintaa ja jännitystä riitti.
I think that night without end by Alistair Maclean definitely is a good bookIt’s about a group of scientists who help people who just crashed into the cold mountains.But what they didn’t know at first was that the crash wasn’t an accident .Someone of the surviving passengers drugged every passenger on the plane and killed the pilot.
In the book are a lot of characters with difficult names so when you stop reading and when you start reading again you don’t know all the names anymore.
But overall I think it’s a very good and exciting book especially if you love this kind of genre and if you can understand English very well.
MacLean's best thrillers have Nazis or nature as their villains, and this page-turner's got the latter.
We have a couple standard MacLean stock characters here: the hyper competent, strong silent BFF; the cardboard damsel in distress; and of course the tough, long-suffering, also competent, sometimes self-doubting leader, muddling along though we never doubt that he can pull it off.
The mystery sabotagers and the reason for sabotage are just MacGuffins here, because the real story is about man vs Arctic.
It's a damn good story, topped with a stone cold BAMF ending.All in all, one of the better Alistair MacLean thrillers.
It's a formula we've seen from him many times, done well and done right with good pacing and action.
1.Oxford level 62.4/10=50min, 4/11=60min, 4/12=30min, 4/13=20min3.mystery, plane, murder, missile, gun, kill, cooperation 4.(a)'Throw me a rope.
For God's sake, throw me a rope.' I thought of the number of people who had died because of Smallwood-the plane's captain, the other three officers, Colonel Harrison, Senator Brewster and Mrs Dansby-Gregg.
I thought, too, of the people who had almost died because of him - Mahler and Marie Legarde.
(b)I think the man who murdered many people to make his plan work well seeked a help is so miserable.
The man who committed the mureder was originally priest.5.
Alistair Maclean's first dozen adventure novels were pretty good, and "Night Without End" is one of the best.
It's the typical "things-are-not-as-they- seem" scenario: a group of people are thrown together in a dangerous or isolated setting (in this case a weather station high up on the Greenland glacier) and someone begins to kill them off one at a time.
The central character, in this case a scientist, must save the group and find the killer(s).
Throw in other environmental challenges (a plane crash, a fire, various attempts at murder, downturns in weather conditions, etc.) and things get fairly white-knuckled when done right, as in this case.
From my review at http://AlistairMacLean.com:"Less complex and ambitious than some of his better-known works, this one follows a generally linear story line focused on a small group of characters.
Maybe it's a case of 'simple pleasures for simple minds,' as my mother used to say, but this story's minimalist approach holds real appeal for me."Strengths include his canny psychological portrayals of characters and his ability to make you feel the cold dark climate.
One weakness is an awkward stab at a romantic angle; MacLean often struggled to make those convincing.
Overall, a gripping read that kept me turning pages past midnight.
Alistair Mclean was a variable writer.
I would place his novels into one of three categories: good, very good or plodding.
This one is plodding.
I starts well: a remote Greenland research station, a crashed airliner, some unexplained murders.
Then it goes off into Agatha Christie territory for a while: a bunch of eccentric strangers are gathered together - who is the killer?
When that mystery is solved, the book is left with nowhere to go.
So it goes there slowly.
This involves a long trek/chase across the icy wastes with the thin plot substantially padded out with 'thrilling' but improbable and eventually quite tedious incidents.
Not a bad adventure / thriller. The lacklustre nature of 50's technology compared to today (even though in its time it was pretty neat) is the only thing that makes this a little ho-hum, but that's not the books fault. Set in the Greenland icecap in the International Geophysical year (1958), a team of geologists has to help the survivors of an airliner crash back to civilisation. Except one of the survivors is a murderer trying to steal goverment secrets and will stop at nothing to make sure the evidence dies on the ice where noone can find it.
