https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/188119.How_to_Stay_Alive_in_the_Woods
How to Stay Alive in the Woods is perhaps on of the most comprehensive and best-explained survival books available.
The book was obviously written in a different age, which adds a certain charm - and some decidedly non-p.c. moments - to the narration.If you spend any significant amount of time camping away from the daily conveniences of modern society, if you are planning a trip into the wilderness, or if you are just trying to figure out how you can survive the complete and total end of civilization, you will find 'How to Stay Alive in the Woods' to be a fantastic reference and a better teacher.
My dad left me this book when he passed and as I read it, I realize how he pulled off all of those wonderful survival skills when we were canoeing deep in Canada.This book is wonderful, the advice is valid and it works. I have a lot of Angier's other books and they are just as good; this man knows his stuff and knows how to survive without cell phones, ipads, or electricity.My copy has a ton of scribbled notes from dad, which verify and confirm that Angier knew what he was talking about.
I found this at the Goodwill recently. I am learning much about skinning frogs and porcupines for sustenance.
Better than the Bible for a sense of security and cure for insomnia. Perfect present for all those counting the days until Doomsday.
Excellent survival manual (it's hard to imagine a better one, though I am not well read in this area). I am not sure how useful it will be outside of survival though (unless you regularly camp). My only negative is that at least one of the survival foods was shown without it's negatives. Dock is high in oxalates and I wouldn't recommend it if there is a grocery store around.
Main takeaways:Saltwater is safe to drink if you freeze it for a year firstPorcupines are smarter eating than trout, cause they’re dumb/more caloricYou should definitely own 2 copies of this book, one on your person at all times -just in case-Snowshoes are easy to make, just make sure you bring your waterproof canvas mackinaw and a bunch of sewing supplies with you if you plan to get lost in the wilderness.🙄
A classic survival book by a skilled woodsman, but the main charm of the book for me is the wacky, roundabout syntax. Like this example about surviving on beavers: "If you have a gun and enough time at your disposal to wait for a sure shot, an often productive campaign is to steal to a concealed vantage on the downward side of a beaver pond."
I almost got this five years ago, until I found the USAF Survival Handbook, could only afford one and made a decision. I'm glad I got this one now, it was a good read, but it isn't replacing my USAF Survival Handbook in my camping/hiking bag.
I've had a copy for years and have referred to it off and on -- while I don't ever want to have to test any of what the book offers, there are certain comforts one can take from it in terms of survival. While it would be uncomfortable, it's not that hard! Angier is very "old school" optimistic and enjoyable to read.
this book saved my life at least three times
Dated, but I enjoyed learning about his experiences and how he wrote about them.
Worth it.
was a thorough and pleasantly blunt (which it needs to be) survival guide for those who wish to learn vital methods and techniques for survival in the wilderness.
I definitely am not expert on survival,  but there are things I have learned while living in Maine and hiking while there that I think this book missed.
How to deal with leeches, and how to tell stagnant water from non-stagnant water.This may seem obvious, but when writing a book about survival, you should assume the person reading the book knows nothing on the subject matter.
Advice on how to deal with 'leavings' while surviving in the wilderness.
I only really found a couple of issues in this book: It could have eliminated a couple of illustrations that didn't present knowledge (I'm talking to you, wolf picture!) and could have included a few that needed them because words weren't sufficient (skinning things, making some things).
I enjoyed this book and it covers a broad range of topics pretty well. However, like many "wilderness guide books", it's missing some of the fine details. I'd definitely recommend this book, but I would highly suggest finding an edible plants guide for your region. I would also remind you that reading and doing are very different, so if you want to learn to use these skills (the basic traps and fire making techniques, in particular), practice them!
A concise and precise guide to food and shelter without all the to do about traps and combat that come in the SAS and Army field manuals. Easy to follow, slim enough to fit in a backpack with water-resistant cover and pages. Illustrations are clear and instructions are clear. Would recommend to the casual or serious hiker or outdoorsperson.
This author has a particularly haughty tone when it comes to wilderness survival, especially with his personal accounts of adventure. Information is good, if you can get through the flamboyant vocabulary.
Enjoyable and very comprehensive. To refer back to if I ever want to do a trip in the Canadian wilderness.
I used to lug this around with me in case of disaster. Great book!
Really need to try out that resuscitation technique. Can’t quite picture it in my head.
Packed full of useful advice and clearly from experience. However not always written that clearly – could do with taking its time to explain further.
Very informative book. I have to say, as an avid woodsman myself, I actually found myself learning quite a lot!
so dense I could only digest it a bit at a time
Probably very practical in an emergency situation, but otherwise it was so dry.
Very useful, especially since the book includes area where we live.
MAN IS A CONTRARY CRITTER. A LOT OF US ARE working harder than we want, at things we don’t like to do. Why? In order to afford the sort of existence we don’t care to live.
What makes this book different from other survival guides is easily the author. While Bradford is very educated in wilderness skills, he is also extremely well at keeping the reader interested. Every time I pick this book up to read, I get very exited when I know that I can learn something that could possibly save my life in the long run. I would defiantly recommend this book to anyone anywhere. On the back cover, it says that you can survive anywhere under any conditions. While this is a stretch, it defiantly mostly true.
I ended up liking it so much I got a hard copy plus Bradford's copy of "Edible Plants." I believe that you should have two copies of this book, one in your personal library and one to bring with you while you're having fun outside.
I liked how this book was updated, even though some parts are a bit outdated they're still great to know.
I watch a lot of survival shows so it's good to know that this stuff actually works when I see it on screen and I can reference parts of the book to what I have seen on TV.

As the title suggests, this book contains a vast amount of survival information for anyone planning a wilderness excursion in North America.
The prose is mostly dry with few anecdotal passages, but the result is a dense collection of survival tactics and strategy.
A paperback edition would make a practical addition to your wilderness outfit—so long as it was contained in a waterproof vessel of some sort.
The recently rereleased hardbound edition is beautifully designed and looks handsome on a shelf, but it is far less practical for outdoor use as the bulk of the book is increased by the substantial margins.
