https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/254108.Geheimen_van_het_Wilde_Woud
Another great book of Tonke Dragt! Have to read again soon!
Only recently did I read the prequel, 'The Letter For The King' so I was incredibly excited when I was contacted as to whether I would like to read the sequel- quite the coincidence!The story follows friends, Tiuri (a knight) and Piak (his squire) and their journey through the Wild Wood in search of the King's missing knight.
Meeting strange people along the way, it's a race against time to save not only the King's knight but Dagonaut too.I felt, like with its prequel this book had very much a Lord of The Rings vibe with Tiuri and Piak being like Frodo and Sam, on a mission together travelling miles and crossing the paths of those they'd much rather avoid but with their fun team work partnership it made the book really enjoyable throughout.
This was my favourite children's book, and it still is. I still read it, and its prequel, "De Brief voor de Koning" regularely, despite being 21 years of age now. It's a shame there seems to be no English translation, and it is amazing.
Dark and more mature than its precedent, this book continues to capture the magic and adventurous spirit I've come to know and love from Tonke Dragt's imaginative world.The first novel is a fairly straight-forward story of squire Tuiri's mission to deliver an important letter to the King of Unauwen on the other side of the Great Mountains and the trials and tribulations that are waiting for him on his dangerous journey – not in the least the Red Riders who have killed the previous messenger; The Black Knight With the White Shield.
4.5/5. Gooooood. I did think the first book was better.
They are classic Arthurian stories of knights and quests, centered around kind, honorable Tiuri, who is a squire in the first book and a young, but already well-liked, knight in the second.
Tiuri embodies all of the classic knightly qualities of chivalry, honor, bravery, and humility; even better, he is compassionate and kind.
These books are old-fashioned and traditional and would be a good entry point into knightly fantasy for some young readers (although no magic here), and a feel-good nostalgia bomb for some older and adult readers to curl up with.Also, I LOVE the covers.
Three years ago now, I picked up a copy of this book’s sequel The Letter for the King, which had only just recently been translated into English.
The beautiful world building and medieval-like setting, young Tiuri and his faithful guide and friend Paik, the highly amusing comments from the knights, Tirillo (I squealed when he showed up again in book two)—and just the epic journeys and high stakes that have made up this series.
Tonke Dragt is mijn favoriete Nederlandse schrijver en ik was huiverig dit boek na jaren te herlezenDe eerste keer dat ik het las was ik hevig onder de indruk van de 'volwassen' thema's die aangesneden werden: het doden van een ander mens, het volwassen worden van de jongen waar ik tijdens Brief voor de koning van was gaan houden, de oorlogsstrategie die ook in het schaken telkens terug bleef keren.
Nu komt het allemaal hopeloos simpel op mij over, maar ik denk dat juist dat de kracht van dit boek is: zware onderwerpen die dankzij de ongelofelijk fijne schrijfstijl van Tonke Dragt makkelijk te lezen zijn wanneer je jong bent.
This was such a wonderful book.First things first, this is such a beautiful book.
From the first page I was pulled into this fantasy world surrounded by all the wonderful characters.I really love the world building in this book.
The story and characters where very engaging.
Also, Laura Watkinson has done a wonderful job in translating this book!The story is very intriguing filled with, journeys, sword fights and friendship.
We meet a lot characters we already know from the previous book and get to meet a handful of interesting characters as well.This was a fantastic fantasy story that will have you gripped from the very first page.
Tonke Dragt's only sequel to The Letter for the King details the further adventures of Tiuri and his faithful squire Piak.
Illustrated by the author in moody charcoal, The Secrets of the Wild Wood is a chivalric romance full of duels, arduous quests, haunted forests and courtly love.
And Tonke Dragt perhaps deprives her story of its glamour by revealing too many secrets from the Wild Wood: when all mystery is stripped away, no magic can remain.
Though not as thrilling as the first novel, The Secrets of the Wild Wood is a masterful adventure story, a romance in the medieval sense of the word.
Originally posted on:> http://lauraslittlebookblog.blogspot....The Secrets of The Wild Wood is the long awaited sequel to The Letter for the King by Tonke Dragt and I was so pleased to see the return of Tiuri, Piak and lots of other familiar faces.
Now Tiuri with his new squire Piak are on their next mission to find the missing knight and go on an adventure even more perilous before.As with the first book in this wonderful two part series, I really wish I had read this as a child as it just has everything you could possibly want from a children's book.
Dit boek is goed los te lezen, maar ik denk dat het een stuk leuker is wanneer je een groot deel van de achtergrondinformatie hebt uit het eerste boek, en gewoon gedetailleerder weet wat Tiuri al heeft meegemaakt.In 'Geheimen van het Wilde Woud' gaat ridder Tiuri samen met zijn schildknaap Piak naar Kasteel Ristridin, waar ridder Arturin de ridder van is, maar wat tevens de thuishaven is van ridder Ristridin waarmee ze in de lente op het kasteel hadden afgesproken.
Dit maal gaan ze een hele andere kant op, niet naar Deltaland, maar in de richting van het Wilde Woud, waar ze moeten vechten en schaken voor hun leven, en dat van vele anderen.
It had been such a long time since I read the letter for the king!
In this book strange occurrences lead Tiuri and his friends into the unknown Wild Wood.
From there on you go on a journey with them to uncover secrets and mysteries and escape the hidden hostility found in the woods.I almost couldn’t put this book down and wish that Tonke Dragt had written more books about Tiuri and his adventures, but unfortunately it ends here, I’ll just have to make the rest up myself.
I wanted to love this book, I really did!
As much as 'The Letter...', the previous instalment of Tiuri's adventures - but I just didn't.
I found the pace slower, the characterisation a little thinner (although I did love the deepened friendship with Piak), the structure more episodic and the tension less convincing.
Saying all this, it's far, far from a bad book.
The final chapters do up the game, with a thrilling Hamlet-esque duel, but the fact that I dipped in and out of this novel over a month rather than devouring it in days like 'The Letter...' probably speaks for itself.
Another solid and enjoyable read from Tonke Dragt, following on from the story of Tiuri in her other great book 'The Letter for the King'.
This author is an excellent writer and despite the size of these stories, each one only took me a few days to read - utterly unputdownable.
It did leave me thinking there was some hints of a third book there which would have been great but given this one was written 50 years ago, I don't think I'll get my wish.
A very unknown author that hopefully will become more known as the years go by.
Read this with my boys, aged 8 and 6, straight after finishing The Letter For The King earlier in the year.
We absolutely loved both of these books.
This definitely feels like a progression from the first novel in many ways—the main character seems to have matured and has a little bit of a love interest, and there are genuinely complex and profound issues tackled such as death, taking another person's life and Pyrrhic victories.
If you're a family that reads together and enjoys a bit of fantasy and adventure with knights, battles and mysterious lands you will love this, but pick up The Letter For The King first.
Well, this turned out to be...
After the first one I had such high expectations for this, but basically I was pretty bored the whole time.
I think it mainly suffered from WAY TOO MANY CHARACTERS - there must have been 50 important named characters, who I couldn't keep track of.
Additionally, the geography basically was integral to the story and I kept forgetting what the map looked like, so that also made it v v difficult.ALSO, MOST UNDERUTILIZED CROSSDRESSING EVER.
So, basically I'm happy I read this, but it wasn't worth getting it all the way from New Zealand I suppose.
Having read the first book, Letter for the King, I was really looking forward to this sequel.
It did not disappoint.
I was captivated from the first chapter and found it difficult to put the book down.
I always know a book is good when I can play a movie of it in my head as I read.
I had almost all the characters cast by the third chapter!
David Heyman should get his hands on these two books.
If it's epic adventure with some well developed characters that you're after, this is the book for you.
Just like 'Letter for the King' is this another great and exciting story of Tiuri and Piak. This time they travel to the Wild Woods, where evil things are hidden...Unfortunately I didn't read this book when I was a child, because now the store seems quite simple and predictable. But nevertheless, I enjoyed reading it and I wouldn't want to miss it!
"Secrets of the Wild Forest" is the sequel to an acclaimed youth book by Tonke Dragt, De brief voor de koning ("The letter to the King"). More is revealed about Tiuri's nemesis, the Masked Red Knight. I guess it's a decent book for youngsters, but for me it felt more like a waste of time.
net als het eerste deel een boek vol herinneringen aan mijn jeugd. Toen ik het in 2007 voor het eerst weer las, vond ik nog steeds dat het eerste deel beter geschreven is, maar dat maakt deze serie niet minder om te lezen :)Een boeken serie voor jongere kinderen (stond bij ons toendertijd tussen de B boeken) maar ook als volwassene leuk om weer eens te lezen :)
I just love the series so much, it was beautiful, suspenseful, thrilling and endearing. Just love Tiuri and Piak and the whole world Dragt created, life lessons I've learned and all the sites I visited in this world. Such a great series.
The second in the series, after "Der Brief f_r den K_nig". Like the first book, this is a very dense novel about friendship and betrayal and negative forces threatening the peace in the Kingdom the young knight Tiuri lives in. An amazing book that will easily hold up to repeated reading.
I liked this sooooo much better than the first book! Excellent sequel! I like what they did with the ending. Very Hamlet. =)
"The wild woods" and the "Letter for the King" have the same central character, Tiuri... clearly books that were childhood friends ;-)
One of my favourite children's book that I read over and over when I was younger. It's filled with adventure and friendship and is different enough to stay with you.
Geschreven voor kinderen, maar ook als volwassene blijf ik hem herlezen. Beter dan het voorgaande deel. Mijn absolute favoriet.
More like 4.5 stars. Niet in het rijtje van mijn allerbestgelezen boeken, maar erg, erg dichtbij. Beter nog dan Brief voor de Koning, vooral omdat ik vaak niet wist wat er zou gebeuren. Aanrader!
so glad this book came out!
A perfect sequel to my favourite book. I reccomend that you read the The Letter for The King first though.
