https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/16451.Patty_Jane_s_House_of_Curl
These sisters have a bond that will touch your heart and they live a life that may just break your heart, but a heart cannot be broken without first having been filled to the point of bursting with joy and love.
I don't think you will step away from this book untouched or without falling in love with the characters you meet.
There were also times when I was crying to the point of having to put the book down in regards to some of the grief Patty Jane and Harriet had to experience.I think it's safe to say you will love this book!
My mom recommended this book for me and I'm not quite sure why.
The whole thing felt like it was trying too hard - every life event had to be chocked full with wisdom and little sayings.
Each character had these "charming" eccentricities that are supposed to be endearing, but instead it felt like too much going on.
Finally, even though the characters had many road-bumps along the way and plenty of sadness, none of it really felt genuine.
Even the depressing moments felt chocked with sugary-sweetness.I would recommend this for someone who wants a light read and doesn't need much depth.
I heard of this book often when it first came out.
I even tried to read it at the time.
Often when someone says that they cried at a book, they mean that they teared up.
I usually mean that, too.
But this time, I cried cried.
I guess you could say this book was a lot like real life.
Lives that are happy and sad, but, most of all, full of love.
- - - a note about the narrator - - - Christina Moore read this book and she was wonderful.
(I also loved her reading of Practical Magic.)
Set in Minneapolis and around places I know well, this book hooked me immediately.
Though I read it long ago, I fell in love with Lorna Landvik's style of writing...not to mention a really great story.
Lorna writes in a voice that sounds like your best friends'...as though she's just across the table from you sharing a cup of coffee.
It's a book I keep on my shelf and have re-read, something I seldom do.
You will love the characters, the story-line and the easy drift of words as you turn each page.
This is her best book ever.

I loved this book. Very easy and quick to read. Have you laughing and sad - I just really liked it!
I actually did like this very much as a beach book: very quick story with some good characters and not requiring much thought.
And, I liked the Scandinavian flavor of everything from humor to baked goods to word choices and character traits (like leaving the room to avoid confrontation).
His interaction with the women was the best part of the book.
I agree with another review that said she felt like the book tried too hard; it definitely felt like that when Thor's story was revealed at the end ("Misery" came to mind).
I liked this book more than I thought I would. I assumed, when starting it, it would be a lighthearted read but it ended up having much more depth than I expected.
What Minnesota girl doesn't love a story that takes place near her own home town?
3.5 starsLorna Landvik is a Minnesota author, and she gets Minnesota right. Minneapolis and St. Paul, their landmarks, river and lakes, come alive reading this. The story is pure fiction to be enjoyed as such. A little unlikely / unbelievable at times, but touches the heart with humanity and realness at others. Sometimes funny, sometimes sad (I cried). Partly very predictable, while sneaking in a few surprises. I was distracted at times by typos, but the writing is witty and the story is heartwarming with an inspiring vibe.
This is the second time I read this. I reread Landviks debut to prepare for the long awaited sequel that just came out. A story about 2 sisters and their ups and downs thru life and love. a great summer read!
I read this book for the first time soon after it came out in 1997. I loved it, and did again the second time. I remember well that first read - as a mother of three, staying in bed all day because I couldn’t put the book down. The kids would wander in every so often and find me either laughing or crying as I read. The characters, somewhat eccentric, get to your heart and make you wish you could have been a customer at Patty Jane’s House Of Curl.
I first picked up this book because of the title..and I knew it would have to be about a bunch of women and their lives. And it was, It was all I thought it would be. funny, messy, funny and sad.What I thought was a predictable part turned out to be something totally different, and I was left wishing that that part was more detailed. It felt out of place at first but such good writing brought it all together.I love stories of women and their lives and especially women who are good friends no matter what.
"Uff-da, mayda," says Norwegian Grandma Ione in Lorna Landvik's tale set in Minneapolis.
They, too, dealt with hardship and tragedy although Patty Jane has so much turmoil in her life it pushes the borders of credibility.
The characters are so off-beat they kept my interest as opposed to an interesting plot that was predictable in many spots.
Patty Jane is a potty-mouthed, strong woman who works hard to raise her daughter after her husband abandons her days before the girl's birth.
Patty Jane and Harriet take up most of the narration along with some interesting minor characters.
The book revolves around Patty Jane and her sister Harriet, as they go through quite a few ups and downs.
But they support each other, keep trudging on, and then in Part II, they find their second loves...along with quite a few friends with Patty Jane's House of Curl.This book was definitely not some sappy romance novel, and while sad at times, overall was upbeat.
My favorite character was Avel, a super-short rich man who the tall and lanky Harriet proceeds to meet and instantly fall in love with one afternoon.
Overall, there were a lot of great quotes in this book that I wish I would have been writing down.
This novel was filled with such emotional warmth, humour, sadness, triumph and close, understanding bonds between women.Patty Jane and her sister Harriet are such colourful characters who know how to love and to forgive.
I would have loved to have been part of Patty Jane's House of Curl and the womenly friendships they shared.From back cover:"Patty Jane Dobbin should have known better than to marry a man as gorgeous as Thor Rolvaag, but she was too smitten to think twice.
It's a good thing Patty Jane has her irrepressible sister, Harriet, to rely on.
I just adored this book - it was warm, tender, full of wonderful characters, funny and romantic.
I laughed and cried and didn't want the book to end.Back Cover Blurb:Maybe Patty Jane Dobbin should know better than to marry a man as gorgeous as Thor Rolvaag,but she's too smitten to think twice.
Yet nine months into their marriage, with a baby on the way, Thor is gone.
It's a wonderful, warm-hearted place where you can count on good friends, lots of laughter, tears and comfort when you need it - and the unmistakable scent of somebody getting a permanent wave.....
As Patty Jane's daughter, Nora, says, "but comparatively speaking, our family seems to have had a lot more terrible things than most people."You'd be laughing at the funny sayings of Patty Jane or her mother-in-law, Ione, and then in the next moment feel the loss of loved ones that each sister faces.
Alcohlic parents, deaths of loved ones, alcholism, cancer.
But they all came together in times of need.Salons with live harp music, baked goodies, learning seminars, and squables of ladies getting their hair done.
Makes you appreciate the quirks and lessons learned that make you a family.
Many many years ago I read all of Lorna Landvik's books and loved them.
Just a really satisfying story with lots of heartfelt moments and tragedy and triumph.
I think it's funny (and kind of insulting) that the first sentence of the blurb on the cover flap says "An easy-to-read story".
I was surprised at how little of the story I remembered.
I loved the midwestern Scandinavian details and I suspect I'll go on a nice comfortable jag of rereading some of her other cozy titles.
If memory serves this was the first Lorna Landvik novel I read. The Minneapolis metro area has a phenomenal writing community, numerous publishing houses and one of the country's best public library systems. I heard Minneapolis writer Landvik lecture several years ago and loved her humor and incisive wit which bursts through on the pages of this and her other novels. Her characters are fleshed out, a bit off-tilt, but really interesting and unusual. Humor is balanced with the more dramatic aspects of life, as most lives are.
As always Lorna Landvik wrote a book that made me cry. Sometimes reading a book to escape from everyday life is needed. Then again, sometimes reading a book about others surviving everyday life is what's needed. Lorna Landvik never disappoints to deliver characters that seem as real as an aunt or a neighbor. Real life lessons when it comes to love, life and enjoying all it has to offer. Another book on my shelf that is dedicated to the writings of Ms. Lorna Landvik.
I am quite fond of Patty Jane's House of Curl. And this book is one reason I am quite fond of book clubs, and our library's in particular. This is a book I never would have picked up on my own. But, as a pick for November's meeting, I decided to listen to the book on audio. I must say, I semi-fell in love with the characters and just the whole book. Pleasant surprise for me! :)
I really enjoyed this book. It made me laugh and cry. The characters were all so quirky yet relatable. The only thing I didn't like was the fact that almost the entire plot of the book (including spoilers about certain characters)was on the inside of the dust jacket, which I always read. I would definitely read this author again.
Sort of a Norwegian Southern novel.  I tried this a couple of times, but I was determined to get to the end this time; I don't see what all the fuss is about.
Any story that takes place in a beauty salon has got to be good. That's where all the secrets are revealed, right? This was a fun weekend read. Not too long or too short.
LOVED THIS BOOK!!
Quick read. Reminded me a lot of Steel Magnolias. Nothing to jump up and down about; I found it very predictable.
I laughed I cried I loved every character
Perfect time in my life to re-read this book! Listening to it was the best!
Mary Jane and Harriet are sisters who grew up with parents who drank in excess with the sisters caring for the parents at the times of excessive drinking.
Patty Jane married handsome Thor Rolvaag and became pregnant the night of her marriage.
Thor had been out one night drinking in excess when he slips on ice and disappears before the birth of Nora.
Harriet meets Avel Gains a rich man, becomes engages and dies in an airplane crash days before the wedding date.
Harriet meets Reese Brown, a policeman, and they marry.
Mary Jane had found love with Clyde Chuka and they have a son named Harry after Harriet.
