https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/226475.Radio_Free_Albemuth
It takes a genius of Philip K.
Dick’s stature to tell the same story while also maintaining sub-plots involving alien telepathic transmissions, erudite references to God and the Bible, alternate realities, mental illness, drug use, schizophrenic delusions and enough conspiracy theories to choke a wub.
This, in a nutshell, is Radio Free Albumuth, a story that PKD drafted along with his VALIS trilogy but was not actually published until after his death.
Like VALIS, Philip K.
And also like VALIS, the pink ray transmissions are back as well as PKD’s fascinating, hypnotic use of the unreliable narrator.
Real Rating: 3.5* of fiveWhat a damned miracle it is to find this book again.
In the Year of Our Suffering 2018, the weird way of PKD's imaginary travels has become our reality.
The fact that this wasn't published until after PKD's death suggests to me it wasn't fully baked yet.
He just didn't have a chance to get down into the working parts of the book before he died.But damn, it's really really really scary how the imaginarium in his head led PKD to predict our present.Then there's a 2014 movie that makes my hair stand on end.
"This, I realized, is how a man becomes what he is not: by doing what he could never do"- Philip K Dick, Radio Free AlbemuthMy brother and I were discussing how PKD would absolutely lose his shit to see how much the world has become what he wrote.
For me this book was a bit of post-Trump-election therapy.
Even the relationship between the election of Ferris Fremont and the Russians seemed a bit too close to reality:"Why should disparate groups such as the Soviet Union and the U.S. intelligence community back the same man?
As everyone knows, they really are out to get us all.Whether or not you buy into any of PKDs paranoid fantasies or strange religious experiences, it’s undeniable that he wrote this book with searing honesty, pathos for the struggles of his characters (himself, really), and out of a genuine desire to understand what exactly was happening to him with all these visions and hallucinations.
It’s a unique literary experience for any hardcore PKD fan, though it may make no sense whatsoever to most readers.Film Version (2010): I was surprised to discover a film version of Radio Free Albemuth had been made as a low budget indie production back in 2010 starring Jonanath Scarfe as Nicholas Brady, Katheryn Winnick as his wife Rachel, Shea Whigham as Philip K Dick, and Alanis Morisette as Slyvia Aramchek.
Technically, Radio Free Albemuth was PKD's last published novel.
But instead it reads like a different version of the sprawling gnostic treatise of paranoia and salvation that was VALIS.The two protagonists are Philip K.
Dick himself, and not-Philip K.
Dick, who is a cipher for the author's own experiences, and the visions of 2-3-74.
If one wants to try and glimpse the later PKD without delving too deep, Radio Free Albemuth is a good place to start.
BUT NOT NEARLY AS DELUSIONAL AS HARLAN ELLISON WHEN HE WROTE IN DANGEROUS VISIONS THAT ONE TIME ABOUT HOW PKD WROTE HIS BOOKS WHILE TRIPPING ON DRUGS.
BECAUSE THAT'S A TOTAL LIE AND HARLAN ELLISON IS A LYING LIAR PANTS ON FIRE.
PKD DIDN'T DO DRUGS.
EXCEPT FOR WHEN HE TALKS ABOUT DOING DRUGS IN THE EXEGESIS.
BUT REALLY, PKD DID NOT USE DRUGS.
AND IF DRUGS WERE INVOLVED, AND I MEAN THIS IS A BIG IF, IT WAS ONLY BECAUSE OF THAT ORAL SURGERY MEDICATION THAT ONE TIME WHEN HE WAS SEEING AND HEARING THINGS FOR TWO ENTIRE MONTHS IN 1974.
Έχω διαβάσει 14 βιβλία του Φίλιπ Ντικ, ο πλέον πολυδιαβασμένος από μένα συγγραφέας μαζί με τον Στήβεν Κινγκ, και μπορώ να πω ότι είμαι κατά κάποιο τρόπο ειδικός.
Γίνεται ένας χαμός οπότε τι να πω; Θα πω απλώς τι περιέχει το βιβλίο αυτό: Πολλές συνωμοσίες, φασιστικό αστυνομοκρατούμενο αμερικάνικο κράτος γεμάτο ρουφιάνους και πράκτορες, ψυχροπολεμική παράνοια, αντικομουνιστική υστερία, εξωγήινους εισβολείς (κατά κάποιον τρόπο) και εξωγήινους δορυφόρους που στέλνουν για εκατοντάδες χρόνια σήματα στη Γη, ιστορικές αναδρομές στην αρχαιότητα και μπλέξιμο με ελληνικά, ρωμαϊκά και άλλα ιστορικά στοιχεία μέσω διαφόρων οραμάτων μερικών χαρακτήρων του βιβλίου, "θεϊκές" παρεμβολές και διάφορους προβληματισμούς γύρω από τη θρησκεία, ναρκωτικά και άλλες ψυχοτρόπες ουσίες, και γενικά τα πάντα όλα!
Το βιβλίο θεωρείται αυτοβιογραφία (ή κάτι τέτοιο) του Φίλιπ Ντικ.
I don't know if I just read a book about aliens or a book about religion. Maybe it was both. The book started off interesting enough but the middle part was a chore reading about all the different theories the two came up with and then there was a long, long Bible lesson. I still don't know what to think about the ending...WTF sums it up about right I guess.
This one was PKD's the first shot at novelizing his Feb.'74 experience. Sometimes one's first ideas are maybe not the most developed or executed but are still essentially the best.He used his own name in this one, rather than "Horselover Fat" which he used in Valis. Horselover Fat: narrator; Philip in Greek means "fond of horses"; "dick" is German for "fat", which is clever.It is another strange yet entertaining and enjoyable and unforgettable story of extreme paranoia. It reads more like one of PKD's posthumously published non-genre novels as PKD writes sci-fi as if it were true conventional reality.
His life and that of his closest friend, is turned upside down by the experience.This is the most "autobiographical" of Dick's fiction, even to the point of having a character named "Phil Dick," who narrates 2/3 of the novel.
Dick could never completely commit to the reality of his experience, and always came back to saying “I’d be crazy if I believed all that.” The book is less explicit, and maybe we need to see his “wouldn’t I?” at the end as a real question for each reader to decide for him or herself.
"Mi giunse un'altra immagine, chiara e netta.
La mia amicizia con Phil, il fatto che lui abbia scritto decine di popolari romanzi di fantascienza che si vendono nei negozi e nelle stazioni degli autobus, anche quella è una falsa pista.
E' proprio quello che le autorità cercano: qualcosa che emerga da quei romanzi da quattro soldi.
Vengono studiati e vagliati uno a uno dagli uomini dei servizi segreti.
Anche noi del campo discografico siamo controllati, ma più che altro si cercano allusioni nascoste alla droga e al sesso.
Gli argomenti di tipo politico le vanno a cercare nel campo della fantascienza."
I don't believe many people would be able to get away with a continued theological speculation framed within a science fiction narrative, but this is a convincing work and often, very moving.
Dick obviously had a lot of hope for humanity though and it really shines through in this beautiful work.
I wanted to read mostly to read about some things mentioned in biographies, interviews etc.Now, this is quite well written for Dick's standard.
This one combines a fine science fiction story, good writing, nice twists and a lot of clues from Dick's life.
Some of the incidents in the book have been mentioned in interviews etc as real(?) events of PKD's life.
For some Americans it's prophetic in the sense it speaks about this age for some reason.
Not only I don't want to mess with politics but, more importantly, I think PKD's work speaks for all eras.
Hikaye baştan sonra kasvetli, paranoyak ve psikozlu. Dini, polis devletleri, faşist yönetimleri ve bilim kurguyu mükemmel bir şekilde harmanlamış PKD. Hikayenin kapanışındaki sahnede de tüm bu kasveti dağıtmış. PKD özel bir adam, okuduğum her romanı ile bunu kafama tekrar tekrar vuruyor.
A dystopian tale set in a USA under a totalitarian President who is merely a puppet for Russia.Ideal escapist fiction in today's world!
Dick's first attempt at novelizing his strange experiences of February and March 1974.Radio Free Albemuth hits many of the same notes as Valis, but is a more straightforward and polished narrative.
Some of the same alternate world background that appears in the movie-within-the book Valis appears in Albemuth, such as Valis as an ancient alien satellite sent to assist humankind, the authoritarian dictatorship and cult of personality of Ferris F.
But in this novel, Fremont is not a metaphor for Nixon in an artistic sci-fi movie, he is real and has managed to turn America into a Stalinist police state.
It has been suggested that this was only a first draft which Dick abandoned before going on to write VALIS (published in 1981).
I enjoyed its simple, autobiographical style and fairly simple plot, especially after the bizarre reading experience of Ubik, which I loved.The story focuses on the friendship of two men, Nicholas Brady, a record store clerk, and Philip K.
This entity appears to offer guidance to Brady, but is Valis real or just a creation of Nicholas’s mind?
I enjoyed reading this book but it didn’t leave as much of an impression on me as Ubik did.
because I did enjoy Radio Free Albemuth, and it's making me want to try going back to Do Androids Dream and to some of Dick's other work, and have another try.It's a smooth read, confidently written, and easy to follow -- which as I recall, was my problem with Do Androids Dream; I just couldn't keep a handle on what was happening and why, for whatever reason.
There's something very 1984 about it, obviously, but with -- well, I won't spoiler it.The discomforting thing is really the fact that this is semi-autobiographical, and Dick really believed this, or some of this anyway, was happening to him.
Tüm dinler tarihini, bilhassa İsa'yı bilimkurguya indirgemek, dünyadışı zeki yaşamformlarıyla birleştirmek; bunu yaparken de baskıcı totaliter faşist hükümetleri işin içine harikuladeten katıp harmanlayarak, belki de yazılabilecek en iyi politik-bilimkurguya imza atmak. PKD işte. Gerisi lafıgüzaf.
Philip K.
Dick'in 60'lı yıllarda kaleme aldığı bilim-kurgu ve paranoyak fikirlerle süslediği nevrotik bir roman Albemuth(fomalhaut) Özgür Radyosu.
Nicholas adlı Berkeley'li bir plak satış tezgahtarının çevresinde gelişen olağan dışı olayları konu alıyor.
Dünya dışı gelişmiş bir ırk tarafından seçilen Nicholas'a gizemli bir uydu tarafından aktarılan sinyaller aracılığıyla dünyayı F.F.F'in zalim yönetiminden kurtarmak için giriştiği birtakım işler başını türlü dertlere ve AHD adlı gizli bir hükümet polisinin merceğine yöneltiyor.
AHD'nin baskı ve despot politikası yüzünden Nicholas, Silvia ve nağmıdiğer PKD işlerini gizlilik içinde yürütmek zorunda...Harika bir yazın anlatısı.
Okunası, içten, bilim-kurgu ruhunu yaşatan ustaca tasarlanmış bir eser.
Dipnot olarak altıkırkbeş yayınından çıkan kitabı almanız sonucunda Philip K.
Il prodotto finito sarà la nota Trilogia di Valis, di cui questo romanzo, Radio Libera Albemuth, non è altro che una prima versione, poi scartata e riscritta.Questa premessa si rende oltremodo necessaria vista la particolare natura del testo, un romanzo compiuto, eppure pubblicato postumo, a favore di una successiva riscrittura più congeniale all'autore.
Tutto questo e molto altro concorrono a rendere Radio Libera Albemuth uno dei più lucidi e visionari romanzi di Dick, e il più riuscito tentativo di elevare la fantascienza a luogo privilegiato in cui si incontrano gli uomini e la letteratura.
His final and most prophetic novel," the kind of come-on you'll find on most covers of most of the novels by this author who is more often than not treated by his fans and the publishing industry as some kind of mystical seer or high priest of sci-fi, instead of the paranoid nut-job with minimal writing skills that he truly was.And that's not to say I'm not a fan because I am, although a little Dick goes a long way in my estimation, and I've never felt the need to binge read him.
Not that it was weirder, per se, but it was weird in a way I wasn't expecting from Dick -- its paranoid alternative reality dystopia (expected) meets New-Age Christianity (not expected).I liked that most of the book was narrated by "Philip K.
That's when it started sounding more like the sort of books my crazy hippie aunt who sells crystal water and named her childen based on numerology reads rather than sci-fi.
Radio libre Albemuth est vraiment un livre très spécial. Une sorte d'autobiographie truquée (ou pas), schizophrénique et paranoïaque. Philip K. Dick s'y dédouble comme dans une manifestation de dissociation de la personnalité et décrit le monde de cauchemar dans lequel il croit évoluer, mêlant faits réels et inventés. On ne sait jamais trop dans quelle mesure il est sérieux dans ses interprétations ou s'il saisit simplement des occasions d'être drôle, laissant le lecteur entre consternation et crise de rire.Ah, si seulement son éditeur avait accepté ce livre, Dick nous aurait peut-être épargné sa trilogie divine.
This novel was published posthumously, set from a completed and corrected manuscript that Dick left to a friend. It contrasts starkly with the completely niave prose of Dick's early work, the author being so technically assured as to even change narrators in mid sentence...twice. THIS REVIEW HAS BEEN CURTAILED IN PROTEST AT GOODREADS' CENSORSHIP POLICYSee the complete review here:http://arbieroo.booklikes.com/post/33...
Nixon-era paranoid schizophrenia as only PKD can do it. Parts of it made me laugh out loud, which is unusual for his books. You might find it interesting to contrast this with VALIS; however, I've forgotten 99% of VALIS, so I can't say any more than that.
not PKD's finest work, but a good read, especially considering the parallels to current politics. US presided over by a bumbling totalitarian president secretly installed by Russia, hmm.
A novelization of a series of mystical experiences initiating in February 20, 1974.Matching Soundtrack :Les Chants Magnétiques - Jean-Michel Jarre
But what makes Radio Free Albemuth a more enjoyable read, for me, is that it deals with the themes in a fresher and more open way.
By the time Dick wrote VALIS the events of his ‘spiritual awakening’ in 1974 had become heavily mythologised and theologised, 'Exegesis'-style, in his own mind, but in Radio Free Albemuth he confronts them – not directly (there is plenty of obfuscation) but more naturalistically, more autobiographically, despite the obvious limitations of the book being an unrevised draft.The opening chapters about growing up in Berkeley are quite wonderful, and often very funny, in the style of Dick’s realist novels.
The other main character in the book is Dick's friend, Nicholas Brady, a record store clerk in Berkeley who starts dreaming odd dreams and hearing voices and seeing visions which seem to emanate from an alien satellite, later to be called VALIS by Nicholas.
Phil moves down shortly after just to keep up with things going on in Brady's life, which seems somewhat hard to believe, but he is a sci fi writer, right?
That didn't make sense to me.Eventually, Nicholas and Silvia hatch a plot, engineered by VALIS, to produce records with subliminal political messages in them, alerting the public to the fact that Fremont was a "Red," and therefore not to be trusted.
