https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/267869.Silent_in_the_Grave
A "historic" period timeframe where the only thing keeping the reader knowing that it's 1886/87 Victorian London is the fact that Raybourn kindly included the date at the top of the first chapter.
Nothing takes me out of a book faster then this current fad of giving historical books and characters the faintest whitewash of their time period, while conducting a novel that could just as easily have taken place in NYC, circa 2010.If any of the above appeal, then run, don't walk, to the nearest bookstore and get your copy of Silent in the Grave today.In conclusion, this debut novel is dreck, just dreck.
It's very easy to guess why Lady Julia's husband has been murdered, so it's rather tiresome that the characters aren't catching on sooner.* sometimes the turn of a page means that a whole year has passed.* there is far too much heavy-handed feminism presented in this book.
I'm all for feminism, obviously, but not when it's inserted so ham-handedly.* you'd think that with so much raging femininity going on, Lady Julia would play a more pivotal role in uncovering the mystery.
Everybody loves a good international man of mystery, but private enquiry agent Nicholas Brisbane is Just Too Much: he's a prizefighter!
Lady Julia Grey -- although at times stupid and inconsistent -- is a more interesting character, because she's believably human.
Born into a family of eccentrics, Julia has spent her entire life suppressing herself, until the death of her husband forces her into exploring her own powers.
Unfortunately, the interactions of this odd couple always seem forced and artificial.
The mystery itself is not much: Julia overlooks two obvious suspects, one of whom predictably turns out to be the murderer, although the motive was somewhat different than I imagined.
Victorian-era murder mystery: Lady Julia Grey is the young widow of Sir Edward, who collapses at a dinner party and soon dies, despite the best efforts of the doctor and Nicholas Brisbane, a dark and mysterious private investigator who had been hired by Edward because of some threats he'd received.
So Julia tracks down Brisbane, and the two of them belatedly begin an investigation, attempting to find out who may have murdered Edward and why.
. .This is a well-written book and I enjoyed the way it immersed me in Victorian society--mostly high society, but with a few notable visits to the seamier side of London life.
Even better, it's the first in a series with the second one already out and the third due to hit shelves in March.Silent in the Grave starts out with one of the best opening lines I've read in ages.To say that I met Nicholas Brisbane over my husband's dead body is not entirely accurate.
That's why, when confronted with an unusual and mysterious private investigator's claim that her late husband employed him to find out who was threatening to kill him, Julia dismisses the notion as preposterous and sends Mr. Nicholas Brisbane on his way.
It brought me back my love of Victorian times after I had (mostly) exhausted the classics and become tired of re-reading my favorites.
This series has some of my favorites of all time - the mysterious and tempestuous Brisbane, full of barely restrained energy.
The Victorian setting is lush and filled with atmosphere, and the mystery and suspense, and even the romance, just add more depth and purpose to the story.
Twice.Raybourn earned a place on my favorite authors list through this series the first time around.
I love the mix of historical fiction, mystery, and little bit of love story.
This is our pick for this month's Vaginal Fantasy Hangout. Read along and then watch on Feb 27th, 8pm PST! THATS MONDAY THE LAST MONDAY OF THE MONTH!
This is a reread.
I read the first Veronica Speedwell book a while ago now and really enjoyed it.
When I went to review it I realised I had already read and rated two of these books with Lady Julia Grey, but I didn't remember doing so at all!
I was halfway through the reread before the story started to come back to me and that was quite telling in itself...this story is ok, but a bit slow.
I may continue this series if I get bored but for my money, the Veronica Speedwell series is much better.
Julia, Brisbane, and the secondary cast of characters are so funny - most times unintentionally - that they really made the whole reading experience an absolutely fabulous one.The mystery was very well-done, and while I had my suspicions relatively early on and they ended up being right, it was by no means obvious, the motive I had ascribed the murderer was completely and utterly wrong, and there were still several aspects of the mystery that were surprising and caught me off guard.The ending was good if you're planning on reading the next book in the series - if not, or if I were stranded on a deserted island without the sequels, I might just tear my hair out!
I did like the author's lighthearted style.The longer I read, however, the more I began to dislike the story.
I didn't feel any chemistry between Lady Julia and our mysterious tortured hero, who keeps making vague, annoying threats: "If I find that you have hidden anything else from me, hindered me in any way," he said softly, "I will not be responsible for my actions."The plot gets gradually more ridiculous, and then at the 3/4 point the author tosses in a supernatural element, which this story did not need.
(hide spoiler)]) which Lady Julia absorbs with nary a swoon, hardly even a blink.
9/1/18 $1.99 for Kindle.Highly recommend to fans of historical murder mysteries with a strong romantic aspect.
Le voy a dar 4. Ojo que no es una novela romántica.Pero el ambiente victoriano está bastante bien reflejado y pese a que la trama en general me ha resultado en muchos puntos bastante predecible, es una novela que creo que está muy bien escrita. Los personajes complejos y la trama evolucionada.Es una serie de 5 entregas y tocará seguir leyéndola, pues pareja hay.... no sé si terminarán juntos o no, ya se verá
I’ve reviewed other books of the series and talked about the characters on the blog before, but I recently started at the beginning for a reread and couldn’t resist writing a review!
Check out the opening lines, which is easily my favorite beginning of all time (and which I’ve already talked about on the blog more than once):To say that I met Nicholas Brisbane over my husband’s dead body is not entirely accurate.
These themes add such richness and depth to the stories and the characters; it is remarkably easy to get lost within the pages of Silent in the Grave.Lady Julia and Brisbane are easily two of my favorite characters in all the land.
However, the characters are colorful and I love the writing style.
Julia reminds me a little of Amelia in Elizabeth Peters' books as does her relationship with Brisbane.
I had no preconceived ideas about this before reading it though I remembered quite a few friends liking this series.
I'd like to see this writer tackle something a little more meaty though - because I think she can do it.
By the end of the book it bothered me some as that aspect became more than a little over the top.
I adore this book, and just listened for the second time to Ellen Archer's excellent narration.
There is not a lot of romance in this book.
The murder of Julia's husband has been solved, and Julia has narrowly escaped death at the hands of the murderer.
Just a bit of soft cotton wool and a thin silver pendant, struck with the head of Medusa, strung on a black silk cord.
I swooned.If you enjoy mysteries with a touch of romance, I enthusiastically recommend this book and the rest of the Lady Julia Grey series.
The book opens thusly: "To say that I met Nicholas Brisbane over my husband's dead body is not entirely accurate.
Edward, it should be noted, was still twitching upon the floor."An excellent beginning!
It is, unfortunately, all downhill from there.
Unfortunately, the author is determined to write mysterious romances.
To solve her husband's murder, Julia engages the gentleman detective Nicholas Brisbane.
He is swarthy and sarcastic and secretly excellent at fighting and music and can speak every language ever and etc--a horrible, hodgepodge collection of stereotypes that makes him well-nigh unreadable.
I was disappointed with this book.
But despite it probably being one of the better written books I read these months, I'm currently so pissed off at it that I can't bear to read the last few chapters and want to excorcise my frustration.Is it really just me who sees the "solution" at the very first clue placed?
Sadly, the same here, and despite having read only romances (a horror story in 50 chapters itself) in the last weeks, the rave reviews of intelligent readers make the weakness and narrowminded modern American viewpoint of heroine and author so unbearable for me.Please bear in mind that I was going to give the book 3-4 stars initially.
Silent in the Grave was a fun historical mystery read.
I really wish some of the aspects of Brisbane's character that were introduced would have been explained and explored more in detail.
(view spoiler)[ He has the sight which I took to mean he is psychic, through dreams it seems, but then near the end we find out he was an old man and a cat at different points in the book.
Did he disguise himself as an old man and look through the eyes of the cat somehow?
That was a little disappointing considering how Brisbane was written throughout the book.
I'm a huge fan of slow-burning HR novels spiced up with mystery and crime solving. This series is very similar to the author's new book A Curious Beginning in a sense that the main characters are eccentric, peculiar and there is little or none romance involved. The writing is also the same - witty with the elements of dark humor that simply forces you to keep on reading.  Lady Julia Grey  has spent her whole life caged like a bird - she is the calmest and most reasonable of all her family member
This series is very similar to the author's new book A Curious Beginning in a sense that the main characters are eccentric, peculiar and there is little or none romance involved.
THE BAD:- Only one (Julia's) POV destroyed Nicholas' character development.
*SAFETY GANG note: (view spoiler)[there is a mention of Nicholas' past, but there is no romance whatsoever in the book, they kiss only once.
However, the chemistry is strong.There isn't OW drama, but the heroine meets an old woman with whom he had a brief liaison in the past and remained her good friend.
Until much later when she finds a threatening note that seems to bear out what Nicholas Brisbane has said.Julia hires Brisbane to investigate her husband's murder.
Both Emily Ashton from Alexander's books and Julia Grey in this book are lured into the world of criminal detection after their husband's die under mysterious circumstances.
I enjoy these drawing room, genteel ladies being thrust out of their comfortable, upper class sphere only to learn a little bit more of the world around them.
Raybourne does a great job injecting little bits about the family dynamic, including the long time servants.
Original Post:  Silent in the Grave (Lady Julia Grey 1)  at FLYLeF (www.flylef.com)The polarized reviews for Silent in the Grave (Lady Julia Grey 1), by Deanna Raybourn, caught my interest and before long I found myself immersed, or rather drowning, in this British historical thriller. “Let the wicked be ashamed, and let them be silent in the grave.”Before Sir Edward Grey could show this threatening message to Nicholas Brisbane, the private investigator he hired for his protection, Sir Edward co
at FLYLēF (www.flylef.com)The polarized reviews for Silent in the Grave (Lady Julia Grey 1), by Deanna Raybourn, caught my interest and before long I found myself immersed, or rather drowning, in this British historical thriller.
“Let the wicked be ashamed, and let them be silent in the grave.”Before Sir Edward Grey could show this threatening message to Nicholas Brisbane, the private investigator he hired for his protection, Sir Edward collapses and dies.
He draws me into his story, and by mere association Julia’s story – a predictable, yet disturbing, murder mystery.I’m uncertain if I will read the sequel, Silent in the Sanctuary (Lady Julia Grey 2).
I'm torn with my rating for this book, so much so I almost didn't bother with a review.
If it wasn't for my commitment to do so, with every book I read this year, I probably wouldn't have.Why?
Because, this book confused me.
It picked up for me again, after the "maybe, maybe not kiss" incident, and I found it quite hard to put down.In conclusion, It did have all the necessary elements of a great book.
I give this 5 stars for the start, 2.5 stars for the middle, and back up to 5 stars for the ending...
I don't know what to categorize this book.
It's a historical in first person POV and it has romantic overtones, but it's not a romance.
A historical mystery.
At some moments I felt so sorry for her, and then at others I was exasperated.
Other moments she was hilarious and others she broke my heart.
I didn't solve the mystery before the big reveal, either.I'm very tempted to jump right to book 2 but I'm going to wait.
So, remember, it's a historical mystery told in first person POV with romantic overtones but it's not a romance.
Meh. DNF-ed. It just went on and on and on without anything happening. And when we got to the part about the two-week long personality-altering migraine, I had had enough. The main characters had about as much chemistry as two wet crackers.
Enjoyable first in series book. The ending was well done as all the pieces for the mystery snapped into place.
Absolutely beautiful! Great series with fantastic characters and wonderful writing style!
I liked this book, although it is a bit darker than I usually read.
And the only one she could ask for help in such a distasteful endeavor is that same stranger, Nicolas Brisbane.The mystery and investigation plot, while mildly interesting, is not the best part of this novel.
No typecast extras in this story.Julia, the heroine, is a product of her time and her family.
I liked Julia, but I disliked Brisbane.
It was entertaining to untangle the intricate knots of secrets in this tale and see what that does to all the characters.
Recommended to anyone who likes historical mysteries.
EDIT: OK, so I just went through and read a few more reviews for this title, and I am hijacking my own review because I have to clarify something.Apparently, some people feel that this plot is "too feminist".#1 -- I have read this book cover to cover, and I have no idea what you people are talking about, other than maybe the fact that a fictional Victorian lady has some self-respect, some sense of social justice, and a goddamned pair of eyes.#2 -- Even if this book were a scifi novel about a bunch of lesbians who have done away with men entirely and now frolic in an endless Garden of Rainbows and Unicorns it still would not be too feminist because guess what Internet THERE IS NO SUCH THING AS TOO FEMINIST.
Every now and then, you stumble blindly across a book that you pick up not expecting a great deal from, but you find yourself completely unable to put down, almost like it was written just for you.
Also, I very much enjoyed how the author introduced the heroine and hero, and lead us through their story, painting their characters thoroughly, whilst leaving a great deal of material for future books.
Fluid, witty, and with some really wonderful cultural references (Simpson's of the Strand etc), and some great descriptions of the heroine's family - it just flows incredibly well.

