https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1243377.The_Terminal_Beach
The terminal beach, 1993, J.G. Ballard The Terminal Beach is a collection of science fiction short stories by British author J. G. Ballard, published in 1964.British edition: "The Terminal Beach", "A Question of Re-entry", "The Drowned Giant", "End-Game", "The Illuminated Man", "The Reptile Enclosure", "The Delta at Sunset", "Deep End", "The Volcano Dances", "Billennium", "The Gioconda of the Twilight Noon", and "The Lost Leonardo".تاریخ نخستین خوانش: روز بیست و سوم ماه ژانویه سال 2011 میلادیعنو

The Terminal Beach: The best of Ballard’s early storiesOriginally posted at Fantasy LiteratureJ.G. Ballard is best known for his autobiographical novel Empire of the Sun (1984), along with his early novels like The Drowned World (1962), The Crystal World (1964), The Atrocity Exhibition (1970), Crash (1973), Concrete Island (1974), and High-Rise (1975).
Ballard leaves it very open to interpretation, but the loving descriptions of crystal houses and plants and eventually people are guaranteed to haunt your imagination and memory.“The Drowned Giant” This story is deceptively simple and fable-like, in a Borges vein.
Their half-melted faces, contorted into bleary grimaces, gazed up at him from the jumble of legs and torsoes.”The title story, opening this collection, is a powerful metaphor of self-destruction of both individual man and humanity as a whole – any time the earth may turn into a terminal beach and become a graveyard.“On the morning after the storm the body of a drowned giant was washed ashore on the beach five miles to the northwest of the city.
Tarkovsky's 'Stalker' and the work of De Chirico vividly sprung to mind when reading this collection.
This book has the best short story about overpopulation EVER!
While The Terminal Beach is ostensibly a collection of short stories, they fit together nicely, with numerous repetitive themes and images, making it seem like a single work.
A few of the stories are true gems: "End-Game," "The Illuminated Man," "The Reptile Enclosure," "Billennium," and "The Lost Leonardo." Others — like "The Terminal Beach" and "The Gioconda of the Twilight Noon" — are maybe not as successful in some ways, but I find they give me even more to think about.
(Note the continuation from "The Gioconda" to "The Lost Leonardo," which finish the book in that order.) My caveats: I don't care as much about these characters as I could.
Most of it was written at the height of the cold war, and the themes and locations reflect the times; abandoned nuclear testing grounds, spacecraft crash sites, the effects of contamination by alien substances, all set a vivid scene for the, at times psychological, drama to come.The title story, “The Terminal Beach” (1964), appears half way through the collection, and explores the uniquely artifical landscape of Eniwetok (a collection of islands in the pacific, now officially spelt ‘Enewetak’) through the eyes of Traven, willingly marooned on the atoll after the death of his wife and daughter in a car crash.
Ballard's importance lies, in part, in the role he played in opposition to the whole ghastly edifice of English 'literary fiction' that limited the writing of all but the bravest oddities - Mervyn Peake, say - to a suffocating sort of naturalism for too much of the Twentieth Century.
His settings, characterisations and situations are distinctively disturbing.
This selection of stories is a fascinating introduction to his work.
Themes we recognise from the 'Crash' and 'The Drowned World' are recognisable, while the Pinter-or-Kafka-ish 'End Game' portrays an utterly broken and pathetic condemned man unsparingly.
All far more interesting than who's shagging who in Hampstead.
This collection is superior, a must-have for any fans of SF, Horror, Surreal Fantasy.Quick breakdown of some of the best tales in this collection:'Question of Re-Entry' - Ballard's ode to 'Heart of Darkness' with satellites crashed in the jungle becoming holy, interstellar artifacts.'Terminal Beach' - a man hides on an island used for nuclear testing, and he finds that he's not alone.
Horror and surreal match up so well here, and the last visual he leaves us with is a beautiful image, no matter how terrifying it is deep down.'Billennium' - a rare sense of humor carries this story of overpopulation into a sad, frightening vision of city life in the future.And the rest of the book is staggering as well.
This collection of Ballard's stories contains some of his earlier stuff; it may have been his first published collection.
Ballard is usually not at his best when describing relationships; he is much more powerful when he focuses on his bleak speculative fictions, and he does this very well in the title story.
Below this metallic surface is often something dark and disturbing, a hypothetical scenario of the world falling apart, yet doing so in a way that is fascinating and strangely beautiful.
There is a lot of unstated fear lurking in the corners of these stories and their dangerous speculative settings, and yet they can be very interesting places to visit.
Ballard's first major collection of short stories are a veritable feast of a new and emerging talent, a brave voice filled with conviction, style and courage.
Some of the stories are insular and personal, and somewhat like sketches, but others are vast and broad-based, set against the largest backdrop of all - society itself.
Overall, the stories are so filled with intellectual, poetic and philosophical energy that one simply sits back in awe and gratitude at such a vast display.
A great book for the neophyte Ballard reader.
Ballard is one of my favourite English writers and this volume collects some of his best short stories from the sixties .
Ballard har jag pratat om förut, flera gånger, men har egentligen aldrig utforskat hans kortare verk.
Har läst hans bidrag till "Dangerous Visions", men det tillhörde inte precis toppskiktet i den samlingen.
Det är egentligen bara den sista, "The Lost Leonardo", som jag inte alls gillade och så gott som hoppade över helt.
Den och "A Question of Re-entry" är egentligen de enda två jag hade klarat mig utan.
Den förstnämnda är inte dålig, egentligen, och känns inte heller så malplacerad men är istället ganska ointressant med undantag för några språkliga krumbukter.
De teman som sträcker sig över samlingen är ganska typiska för författaren.
Entertaining, if somewhat dated, stories.
A rather curious read for one of the hottest days thus far, but oddly appropriate; especially given the apocalyptic overtones of this exemplary collection of truly eerie, unsettling sf short stories.I don't think I will ever forget the grim pathos and soul-searing melancholy of 'Deep End' - a truly devastating piece of speculative fiction!
Terminal Beach is so beautifully written it could make a life-long sf reader out of the hardiest literary curmudgeon.Ballard really is on form here, and I cannot wait to get started with his 'Voices of Time' collection - For me, the short story idiom doesn't get much better than this.
I liked this better than "Empire of the Sun" because the short story format let me power through Ballard's tendency to rambling and metaphysical hoopla and get on to a different story.
Not much of a compliment, that, but I did enjoy several of the stories.
My favourite was "Billenium", with honourable mentions for "Deep End", "End-Game", and "The Drowned Giant".
The other stories were either a little too "out there" or just not compelling enough for me, but there were only 1-2 that I actively disliked.
Nevertheless, I'm taking any remaining Ballard works off my "to read" list.
I've read enough for a while.
Some of these stories are funny and weird, others are creepy as shit.
Stories about insanity, nuclear testing, over population, reasoning with the man who is going to kill you.
I've never read stories like these.
I read Billenium in The Oxford Book of Science Fiction Short Stories, so I knew that was a good 'un.
The other stories live up to it.
One sentence has stuck in my mind, about a nuclear testing site, he describes it as " an Auschwitz of the soul, whose the mausoleums contained the mass graves of the still undead."
Ever wondered why some people are great authors and you aren't. Empire of the Sun tells you all you need to know. I don't mean that you need to have amazing/terrible experiences like the protagonist, who is based closely on Ballard's own experiences as a child in WWII in China. What I mean is that you need to have the imagination and determination that this character displays. Without the imagination, well, you have a poor story. Without the determination, well you don't have a finished book. Without either one, you don't have a chance in hell.
I actually read this on the beach and it's perfect for that heatstroked state where you're half awake and half asleep. Most of the stories concern the permeable barrier between the external and internal worlds - is reality just a reflection of the mind, or vice versa? Ballard creates some indelible images, like a forest made of crystal, a nuclear test island filled with concrete monoliths and a beached giant. (He also predicts Sydney's housing market with a comic story about people confined to 4 meter apartments.)
When I was younger, I didn't like J.G. Ballard. I still see why that was the case. His stories are often vague, cryptic, open ended. He's not interested in the science in Science Fiction. His science is often incidental and does not hold water. His protagonists are not rational, they follow strange urges from their past or from their subconsciousness. They do this without consideration of their health or even life. Well.. nowadays I like all this. And I also appreciate that his language is more sophisticated than that of most SF authors
Ballard's short stories are not really comparable with those of any other science fiction writer. These stories fall somewhere in between his atmospheric disaster novels and his later more literary works. There is an air of post-imperial decline to these stories, the glorious dreams of early SF already fading into cynicism and decadence, but there is a beauty in the ruins that Ballard depicts perfectly.
3.5 stars. Ballard must have been the life of a party. That's the thought I had over and over while reading this. Some of the stories condemn humanity directly and others are more abstractly unsettling. He finally gets playful in "Billennium" but joke is on humanity. And the book ends with "The Lost Leonardo" which stands the whole collection on it's head. It is a crime mystery that quickly turns fun and farcical. Things might be ok after all.
Decidedly surreal but thoroughly absorbing story in this collection of shorts
I still think this is the best collection of Ballard short stories, showcasing a great variety of styles and themes. Contains my favourite - 'The Drowned Giant' (a nod to Swift), and the title story which was a forerunner for the 'condensed novels' of The Atrocity Exhibition.
Una carrellata delle visioni oniriche e castrofistiche di Ballard.I racconti sono cerebrali, surreali, dotati di una logica stringente, ma al di fuori degli schemi logici dell'universo normale, assolutamente perfetti.
This book got me totally hooked on Ballard. I found it while searching for The Drowned World. It's a very fun read. I read it along with Duma Key and both genres paired very well. Definitely looking foreword to read more.
This collection varies from "Twilight Zone-esque" quickies to short versions of what would become standard Ballard fare: psychological sci fi set in desolate, bleak and apolcalyptic scenarios. The novels tend to be btter explorations of his bizarre ideas.
Gracias a este libro descubría a Ballard, me dijeron que era parecido a Ray Bradbury y ahora que lo pienso, no tiene mucho que ver, pero le agradezco a mi vieja :P
4 stars from Stuart: http://www.fantasyliterature.com/revi...
A must have for the literary sci-fi fan.
