https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/42959.The_Bridge_at_Andau
Michener states at some point in this book, and I am paraphrasing, that the atrocities suffered by a nation are too much for one reader to digest, but the trials of one person are enough to break your heart and build true understanding.
He does a tidy job of explaining Hungary's recent history of political subjugation, its long history of tensions with every one of its neighbors, all framing the current crisis (as of his writing) of the people's revolution over communism, told from the varied perspectives of Hungary's industrial workers, intellectuals, KVO members, and children.
Reading this book really helped me put a chronological order to the long list of -isms that have plagued so many nations of Eastern Europe.

I don't normally read non-fiction, and especially I avoid war non-fiction. But this book was so interesting and sad. The Hungarians fight for freedom from communist Russia is heartbreaking. I can't even comprehend the cruelties inflicted by one human on another. But this is an interesting look into the Hungarian's strength of spirit. I'm glad I read it.
Being of Hungarian descent and having both parents escape from Communist Hungary after actively partaking in the 1956 Revolution, I was very interested to read this book. I found it accurately supporting much of what my parents have described to me about the events in Hungary in 1956. I applaud Mr Michener in undertaking such a daunting task of recounting a part of history that unfortunately many people never even knew occurred.
A story of the Hungarian Revolution of 1956. Michener interviewed Hungarian refugees during the writing and based the characters of the story on these interviews. I found the book so disturbing that I had to move on to some lighter reading when I finished it.
Otra compra magnífica de mi viaje a Budapest, y nuevamente gracias a la recomendación de un acertado librero. Un testimonio extraordinario y verídico de la valentía del pueblo Húngaro. Lo recomiendo ampliamente.
James Michener was right there at the Bridge at Andau, watching and helping some of the 200,000 Hungarian refugees that fled to safety into Austria in the weeks following the five-day Revolution in 1956.
For this reason, the Bridge at Andau serves as an excellent historical account of the Russian occupation of Hungary and mid-century American attitudes toward Communism and immigration.
Yet, his observations are a useful study of American, or perhaps Western, opinion of refugees and Communism, and an exciting account of the Hungarian Revolution.
The decision to annex Bosnia in 1908 and then use the assassination of Archduke Franz Ferdinand as a pretext for declaring war on Serbia (in an attempt to consolidate the hold on Bosnia) led to WWI and the deaths of millions of people.
In WWII Hungary declared war on several of its neighbouring countries, and hundreds of thousands of Hungarian soldiers took part in the invasion of the Soviet Union, an invasion in which 25-30 million Soviets died.
During WWII about half a million Jews were sent from Hungary to Nazi death camps.
I only made it through about 80% of this book—not because it was boring, it just started to repeat itself. I didn’t really need anybody to tell me that Communism sucks, but when you read this book you realize that the promises andthe hopes of the dedicated Communists were all lies and inevitably lead to extreme poverty, death, and destruction of a beautiful country. Hungary in many ways was the savior of eastern Europe against the spread of Soviet communism.
An unashamedly biased presentation of the 1956 Hungarian uprising and the stories brought by the waves of refugees that fled Hungary for safety and freedom in the West.
I would probably have given this book a higher rating if Michener hadn't chosen to display some depressingly era-appropriate but no less disturbing homophobia in his composite picture of the 'bad guy' of this book: a typical member of the AVO (Hungarian secret police).
A must read for anyone who attends a state sponsored school.
Michener meticulously documents the actions of the communist that ruthlessly ruled Hungary.
Are we so vigilant in ensuring that our children are learning truth over propaganda?
As an optimist, I hope so, but it is difficult to see when all around us we are distracted, like the slaves in Rome with entertainment.Every parent should read this book and consider their role in the education of their children or to our nations peril we will fall as all other great societies have fallen, from corruption from within.
I started reading th\is book because my father was involved in these events.
It was quite an emotional experience reading the details of what happened and wondering all the way through "Was he one of those?" or "Did he see that?"Ultimately I could not finish this book.
I found the detailed descriptions of how the Hungarians were tortured by the Russians so disturbing that it haunted me even when I was not reading about it.
I ultimately decided that it was better for me not to continue.The book is well written.
If you are interested in the events of this time, I recommend it.
A great read if one has forgotten (or never knew of) the atrocities of the Soviets, this is but a thin slice of what it was like to be in the thrall of Moscow during the Cold War. Sadly, one can't help but cringe reading the final chapters as Michener describes interacting with Chinese communists... Whereas Michener mentions the Suez Crisis as a handy retort for his Chinese interlocutors, what stands out now, with the remove of 60+ years, is that this admirable book was written and published at the very beginning of the United States' involvement in Vietnam.
In fact, it's that part of the book that makes this volume still particularly timely, albeit we are facing a different form of totalitarianism today, one that is more subtle and insidious than Michener and his Cold War companions could ever possibly have imagined (as is demonstrated in his complete misunderstanding of the nature of modern imperialism displayed in his record of arguments with Asian students in the penultimate chapter).
Is it possible that Michener really didn't see that there is a difference between socialism and Soviet-style "communism?" Perhaps (and many academics continue to make this same error by refusing to closely analyze the socioeconomic formations of the Soviet state).
For twelve days of violence and exhilaration, the people of Hungary fought the state operatives known as the AVO and their Russian overlords.
After twelve days, Russian forces regrouped and attacked the city in strength, destroying buildings block by block and wiping out the resistance.In those days thousands of refugees ran for freedom, many of them crossing the border on a rickety footbridge over a canal near the Austrian town of Andau.
Of course we know that the communist hold over Hungary grew tighter and more vicious, with retribution and executions, and the country suffered many more years before experiencing the freedom that generation fought for.
I'm on a quest to learn about Europe. Don't ask me why, but I started with the country of Hungry. This is the story about Hungry's revolution from Russia's occupancy. James Michener usually writes historical novels but this is different. He is on sight in 1956 as the refugees are crossing the Bridge of Andau and is interviewing them. They tell their stories and he writes them.
When it came in on ILL, I decided I might as well put forth a good effort, and I was really glad I read it.
What Michener documents here is no less horrifying than the holocaust and, in some ways, is more horrifying because communism as it was practiced in Hungary and many other nations cultivates a steady, longstanding state of complete mental and physical terror.
It taught me much about Hungary as a nation and a people.
It has taken me forever to read this book, for a number of reasons.
I originally picked it up in July before a planned trip to Hungary in September, but it has taken me 5 months to actually get to the end.
The “surprising” fact that only 1% of the refugees had anything to do with the revolution is hardly surprising neither was the fact that most Hungarians did not feel “liberated” by the Russians (sound familiar with recent conflicts and other countries being “liberated”?).I need to find a book that documents the story of the revolution a bit clearer and in broader terms.
I don't have the time or patience to write what I learned from this book.
It was especially interesting to read it during an election year.
It is amazing and horrifying how the masses will buy into a government-promoted concept like communism and will suffer and sacrifice for what they are told is the "good" of the many.
The Revolution of 1956 in Hungary was like turning on a giant lightbulb, and people suddenly saw communism for what it really was.
I thought about this book for months after I read it.
I wish I could organize all my thoughts.
The stories horrified, shamed, and drew me to such feelings of compassion and bravery that I would indeed say it was a very good book.
What was the catalyst that sparked the revolution and why did over two hundred thousand Hungarians cross the border and obtain freedom from Soviet domination?Arranged into a series of interconnected stories, The Bridge at Andau revolves around young students, intellectuals, and reformed communist political leaders.
The Soviets used education as a tool to push the communist agenda while at home parents taught their children what it was like to be a Hungarian.One particular moving story dealt with a little boy who was turning six years old.
James Michener’s The Bridge at Andau details the Hungarian Revolution from the side of the revolutionists. His Western perspective influenced his interpretations, and his writing clearly reflects a contemporary cold war mentality. Sometimes exaggerating his depictions of life in Communist Hungary, he has clear anti-communist motivations present in his stories. The Hungarian revolutionists whom he interviewed were also responsible for the embellishments found throughout the novel, no doubt shari
Michener uses embellished storytelling from a Western perspective and in The Bridge at Andau to warn against the spread of communism and encourage more committed American intervention in the Eastern bloc.
Thus, not only does Michener use The Bridge at Andau to warn against the spread of communism, he calls for America to take a more active role in providing military aid to countries looking to overthrow their communist leaders, rather than simply broadcasting messages of freedom.
While Michener changed most of the names of the people he interviewed for their safety and the safety of their families, all of the events actually happened.
While most of us of a certain generation are aware that the Soviets "invaded" Hungary (and later Czechoslovakia), I have never read so much detail on why the people revolted, who did the fighting, and that for a brief period of time, it looked like happy days for Hungary.
I visited Budapest last year, and wish I had read this book prior to my trip.
The book also highlights the heroism shown by the unprepared Hungarians and their fight against the Russian powerhouse and all of its lies and propaganda.
This would lead to starving Hungarians ratting each other out to Russian spies called the AVO in turn for food.
If you have the curiosity to learn about the gruesome stories and injustice that took place during the Hungarian revolution, then this book will demonstrate the corruptness of Russian communism.
One of the ways Hungarians are treated badly by the Russians is when during the revolution, Russian soldiers are given the order to kill anything that moves.
Sometime the author would switch from one situation to another or from one character to another mid-chapter with little or no transition, and the result was a bit jarring.Finally, I feel like the author wanted to convey the miniature stories within in an exciting way, and so parts of it read more like a novel.
However, it was also important from him to relate the reality of the situation, and sometimes facts would be laid out as if in a history book.
There is a balance to be found in doing both things together or side-by-side, but Michener couldn't find that balance.So I won't be reading any more books by James A.
This book tells the story of the Hungarian uprising of 1956 and its rapid suppression by the Soviets.
Michener acknowledges in the afterword that he fabricated some of these stories from things told to him by multiple informants, and that he did so to mask their identities and thus protect family members they had remaining in Budapest.
Michener's writing style is also really, really biased, and often reads like anti-communist propaganda.
Sometimes it's specifically anti-Soviet propaganda, but by and large, he really seems to be trying to discredit communism as a political and economic system generally, not just the specific problems that led Hungarians to rebel in 1956.
I really liked The Bridge at Andau: The Compelling True Story of a Brave, Embattled People by James A Michener.
This is the first book I have read by Michener and I thought it was very interesting.
I prefer reading non-fiction and had not read any books about the Budapest rebellion of October 1956.
It makes for very hard reading, but reading about it is definitely better than experiencing it.I would highly recommend The Bridge at Andau to readers who like: well written and researched non-fiction, books about Hungary, books about communism, and books about people who greatly desire freedom and are willing to fight for it.
Michener is a good writer and it is interesting to read him in full-on 1950s Cold War mode.
Much of the book is written in a very breathless over-the-top anti-Communist style that borders on erotica in showing/describing the brave Hungarians fighting the evil Communists.
Michener can only sustain that style for so long, though, and he eventually starts explaining the context with more depth and understanding.
The sections that deal with his personal experiences on the Austrian border during the refugee crisis are well written.
If you want to experience how the Cold War was covered in the US in real time, this book delivers.
A stinging indictment of Soviet communism, but also of American complacency in the initial Cold War years.
Is this account of the Hungarian Revolution of 1956 true?
Events predicted about the Soviet satellites circa early 1957 did largely come true.
But also contributing to a grand tradition we now call Cold War propaganda.
For this reprint I wish that someone had written a postscript essay addressing these matters from the vantage point of the fall of the Soviet Empire some 35 years later and including some detail of Hungary’s less than honourable actions during its collaboration with Nazi Germany in WWII.
Not sure how how I never heard of this book before now.
It describes specific events before, during, and after the Hungarian revolution of 1956 that directly resulted in my father leaving Hungary and coming to America at age 17.
He interviewed many of these refugees seeking a new life and this book is the result of those interviews.
Many of the details in this book resonate with the stories I heard from my father growing up.
I would definitely encourage anybody with a relative who lived through the Hungarian Uprising to read this book, as well as No More Comrades  by Andor Heller.
