https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/320377.Moonchild
This book makes two things clear: one, that Crowley was an intensely brilliant man, a genius in fact; and two, that ordinary intellectual pursuits such as mathematics, literature, or science were not enough to satisfy him, and therefore he created fantastic justifications for the existence of supernatural phenomena.I don't mean that he is wrong to say that firmly stating "magick" does not exist is foolish, since of course we have no evidence to the contrary...but I don't believe that he truly managed magick.
I think reading this sort of thing is a good idea...shake up what you think you know, and strengthen your defenses against very eloquent bullshit.
This guy is such a dumbass. It's so bad I nearly pissed my pants. As if he didn't annoy the world so much with his dorky occult shit, he has to offend the world's good taste with this terrible literary endeavor. Oh man this book blows. A pathetic, fat, little-dicked wizard.
A novel by the Great Beast himself, the “wickedest man in the world”.
I’m told it helps a great deal if you have some familiarity with Crowley’s magical system (about which I confess I know very little), but Moonchild is still surprisingly entertaining.
The novel was in fact written as an attempt by Crowley to disseminate his magical theories to a wider audience.
For those who are interested in Crowley (who was certainly an extraordinary character), or the history of magic in modern times, it’s essential reading.
of course, Crowley the narcissist.
Its charming, old-fashioned, florid, descriptive prose, the kind they don't do anymore.
Of course, he also spends a fair bit of time telling us, more than showing, although he also does a fair bit of that as well, how his own personal 'Marty Stu' Cyril Gray is just sooooo much better than everyone.
He even has his other stand-in, Simon Iff, his detective character, fawn over Cyril/Aleister a bit.
That was how society saw them as well.Judged as a standard novel, its a bit poor, the prose is good but the plotting is thin to inconsistent and the characters are broadly-drawn cartoons.

i think i liked this book a lot though i was in a different head and heart space then so can't retrospectively give an accurate review.the time of life was very spiritual and occultly and synchronistic.this book reminds me of 2 things:1.
brea gable - my good friend in college my first year.
moonchild was the name of the childlike empress in the neverending story, which i never realized till i read this book.3.
since i know how to find you i declare:: let's find brea.
BREA GABLE where oh where can you be???/another book i'd like to read again....
The book is well-written and engaging. I learned a lot in this book and the premise is very interesting. I think writing a novel to preach and teach some very good concepts and beliefs is a good way to let people know. This book reminds me of Sophie's World.
This guy is such an asshole. It's an interesting novel, but I want to strangle the author.
I read this book many, many years ago and thought it was a fair book back then.
But upon rereading it recently I have found that there is just so much more to the book than my first reading.
Having done that the book definitely becomes more enlightening and explains Crowley's attitude to its members which are played out in this book.
I mean this book had me in falling out of the chair when he started in on Arthwaite because I could readily agree with him in his thoughts after reading Arthur Waite's books.
A good read, just do the prep and you will enjoy it more.
very difficult to follow sometimes because of crowley's intense magic theories, but rewarding for the glimpses of deeper meaning that pop up occasionally.
The misogyny was too great, I abandoned it, very unusual for me.
Mr. Crowley tried so hard to show that he's a learned man and the philosophy of his religion affect man and god and the past and the future, but shit's bound to backfire when you don't know what you are saying.The author spent a great deal talking about the dimensions but he couldn't go beyond the fourth.
I mean, I get that electrons must be pretty rad 100 years ago and it's pretty rad to use it in your book explaining your high concept, but this goes to show that you should really have a good understanding of the material.So these are the things that bothered me and I feel justified to give it a 4.
From there she is initiated into an organization and is embroiled in a feud between Black and White Lodges, while she specifically is involved in a great work to give birth to a spiritual being embodying the moon.Chapters tend to go back and forth between story and long exposition of theory, which can be hard to get through if they don't particularly grab you.Probably the greatest problem is the plot derailing in the last 50 pages where it becomes not really about the characters anymore, but mostly British tut-tutting about World War I.
Sharp, witty and satirical take on the world of feuding magicians in the age of the Golden Dawn, as thinly-disguised versions of Crowley's friends and foes battle it out at the start of the 20th century. Bonus star for his cynical, perceptive wit, and another for the completely unexpected direction taken by the plot.Whatever you might think about Crowley, who was clearly a master manipulator of the media, he wears his heart on this sleeve and he can clearly write far better than you might expect. Essential reading for anyone interested in the milieu.
If it has one star I liked it a lot If it has two stars I liked it a lot and would recommend itIf it has three stars I really really liked it a lot If it has four stars I insist you read it If it has five stars it was life changing
Not much of a novel, but intriguing nonetheless.
There are stretches of the novel that are fairly blatant plugs for his brand of occultism, but there are also parts where characters admit that scientifically testing their magick would come to nothing since how it effects reality is not quite direct, and there is no alternate reality to test against.
The book's central plot point, an elaborate magickal experiment to seed a lunar soul into a human child is fascinating, but, as far as I can tell, pointless.
While Crowley is decidedly an interesting thinker, he is a far cry from a capable writer.The book in its entirety has perhaps 80 pages of actual, relevant, intriguing PLOT.
The ending of the book, in my personal opinion, is an utter rebuke of the last 300+ pages that Crowley took the effort to write.
Essentially while he struggles to make a semantic and aesthetic point to the ending of the story, it is, plainly stated, a lackluster cop-out.Time has also not aged this book well.
The plot seemed interesting (Before it was abandoned about 50 pages near the end).
Perfect reading for Halloween. This is an interesting novel that seems to lose and gain trains of thought several times, and ends with a non-sequitur abandonment of the entire premise of the novel. Maybe it was setting up for a sequel that never came?
Competently written, banally misogynistic self-insertion fanfic before wattpad was a thing. I suffered through 33 pages and resolved no more; I felt the joke was already on me.
Struttura perfetta, old fashion, un po' tiepido nella seconda parte.
Not at all what I expected from Aleister Crowley. It was an excellent fantasy novel, though I understand it was also a manual. I couldn't put it down.
But that is a lot to ask of the modern reader.There are some moments of genuine horror - the black magick ritual certainly puts Dennis Wheatley to shame - and, perfectly in character, he is much better at portraying villains than heroes.But the story does not flow, the psychology is unconvincing, the long stretches of didacticism dull, the obfuscations unnecessary, the 'wit' heavy-handed (he is no Oscar Wilde) and the more than occasional nastiness about women and war uninspiring.All this book tells us is that Crowley was capable of creativity but not capable of the sustained effort and judgment to refine his literary art.
I wasn't expecting that much, and the first few chapters weren't that amazing, but I persevered and by the mid-point I was forced to admit that Crowley was actually pulling it off: he had written a very decent novel, with a number of interesting bits, and philosophical digressions which neither jarred the reader nor distracted from the plot itself.
And infact, there were genuinely funny bits, some honestly deep, philosophical bits, and the plot was interesting and believable enough (within the realm of fiction) to compel the reader along.
A very decent novel - perhaps without much literary or stylistic merit, but interesting nonetheless as an example of Crowley's thinking and worldview, circa 1917.
Los momentos oníricos y surrealistas que contiene, sin embargo, se disfrutan mucho.Como novelización del pensamiento metafísico de Crowley es bastante recomendable, pero sus pasajes abstrusos y en ocasiones recargados e innecesarios hacen la lectura ardua.
La trama deriva hasta que pierde el rumbo por completo y, pese a su pretensión solemne, el desenlace resulta bastante inocuo e indiferente.
Un punto negativo son los antagonistas de la historia, que no sólo son ineficaces y ridiculizados de manera que carecen de cualquier amenaza, sino que el autor identifica sin mucho disfraz con sus antiguos camaradas y superiores de la orden de la Aurora Dorada en lo que casi parece un berrinche infantil.
the women all act like typical "sensible" women, and always predictably in the men's eyes.
The men often have a low view of women so the female characters are the few "sensible" ones.
Still they abuse them and use abuse and manipulation as a way of controlling them.
Kind of like reading a retarded oscar wilde at times, if you can imagine that being entertaining.
The ending completely falls apart though.
(but it might have been because i was pushing to complete the book over night and was tired)all in all, 4/5 for the strong points.
I was led to this book by a circuitous route, having first read the works of Rabelais (who was an inspirational figure to Crowley), inspired by the music of Gentle Giant.
To appreciate Moonchild requires, if not an actual belief in Crowley's ideas about Magick, then at least the willingness to suspend disbelief for a while.
But little more so than for many other works of imaginative fiction.Moonchild is alternately insightful, haunting and satirical.
There is some marvellously acidic wit to enjoy here - and a special kind of elegance, charm and imagination that is shared with other works of fiction that predate the Second World War.
I really enjoyed this book by Crowley, a true genius.
The characters lead you through a tale of magick and mystical events.
Crowley knew how to combine the mysitcal with science and math that eventually went on to be a basis of chaos theory as well.
Originally written to try and bring the US into WW1.
You truly get a glimpse into Crowley's world and his mind.
The version I read was the kindle version, and my only complaint was the typos, though not so bad that you can't figure out the actual words, so the editing of the e version could be better, still not to deter anyone from reading this masterpiece.
One of those books that, if I cared enough to get it, would require a second reading. Aleister Crowley, a talented writer certainly, inhabits a parallel universe and does his best, it seems, to portray it, but it does not translate well into this one. Unfortunately, not driven to reread it right away, but I'll keep it around in case I want to try again sometime. I had hoped it would contribute to a research project I was working on otherwise but that didn't happen. I fault my familiarity with his subject matter more than the author.
The Beast is a Bore. Crowley's fiction writing is medicore at best. As is the case with Crowley, he tends to believe he is cleverer than he actually comes across in his work. There are parts of the novel where his philospophy and magickal wisdom shine through, which makes the book tolerable. But the plot and complete lack of character development make this a story to avoid. If you are interested in Crowley, read his autobiography instead - not surpisingly he is much better when speaking about himself.
