https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/297673.The_Brief_Wondrous_Life_of_Oscar_Wao
How this book won the Pulitzer Prize AND the National Book Critics Circle is beyond me. It's terrible. Here's the review I wrote when it came out. I stand by this completely. If someone says they read this and liked it, punch them in the throat. (I'm kidding, naturally.)Review of Junot Diaz’s first novel, “The Brief Wondrous Life of Oscar Wao,” published Oct. 7, 2007 Imagine, if you will, that seven years after publishing "The Short Happy Life of Francis Macomber," Ernest Hemingway decided to ex
Imagine if, before Macomber is "accidentally" shot by his wife on that safari, Hemingway decided to pad the narrative with a couple hundred pages about Macomber's mother, sister, and grandfather -- tangents that only serve to betray the proper focus of the story, its title, and the reader's trust.That, in short, is what Junot Diaz has done with "The Brief Wondrous Life of Oscar Wao" (Riverhead Books, $24.95) -- a short story he wrote for the New Yorker in 2000, and which, in novel form, devotes more pages to the title character's extended family (and it's so-called curse or fuku) than it does to the fat, girl-challenged nerdy writer who loves “The Lord of the Rings" trilogy and aspires to be the Dominican Tolkien.
I want to know why this is important to you or that is not.
Junot Diaz takes 300+ pages to tell a story about a boy that wants to be kissed and the kiss MATTERS because we know his family, we know his friends, we know their superstitions and their pains, and their loses and their survivals and by the time we get to page 339 we know why the kiss is so important.Oscar goes on the short list of book characters that will stay with me forever.
Exhilarating.
Brutal yet beautiful.
Wao. I really enjoyed both the style and the story of this whirlwind of a novel by Junot Díaz.
I especially enjoyed the footnotes.
Writing any more about this book would certainly break my no spoilers rules so suffice it to say that this book was GREAT and I will be on the lookout for more Díaz fiction!For more about Trujillo, his regime, his assassination, and the chaos that ensued (with a magnificent female protagonist Urania), don't miss Feast of the Goat by Nobel Laureate Mario Vargas Llosa - it is extraordinary!
Ok, I’m writing a review of this book right now or I’ma die trying goddamn it!
1 HOUR LATERI got nothing!
2 bruises in my forehead, kind of dizzy, I’ve cursed the gods of knowledge for being born without literary talent!!
he watches cool tv shows that I like!
Talks about books that I like, and has an unhealthy Tolkien obsession almost as big as mine!
And god damn it I love platanos too!
I need a life so badly =( anyway this book has anime, D&D, Tolkien, Dr. Who, platanos, Dominican mother’s makes one want to kill one self!, voodoo, Love, I mean all the good stuff!!!!
Granted, I have no Spanish-language background, so there were some important places in the novel where I couldn't get the total meaning of the sentences, but I thought Diaz's reliance on slang & colloquialism arose more out of laziness than from the narrative voice, which was often sloppy.
Besides Oscar, his mother's trying to get laid, his sister's trying to get laid, and so it seems the essence of the Dominican character is about getting laid.
A to Z around the world personal challenge - D is Dominican RepublicAfter the partial failure with another Pulitzer winner and the controversy surrounding this book /author I was a bit weary at first.
Rant alert and unpopular opinion about #metoo I read a couple of reviews who criticize this novel because it is sexist.
I will not say more because I should not write about the author's personal life but, in general, I think this #metoo movement is going way too far and deviates from the original, appreciable objective, which is to denounce sexual predators like Weinstein.
Soon after I started reading this book, I also started reading  Housekeeping vs. The Dirt  by Nick Hornby. In it's preface, Hornby discusses why reading has fallen by the wayside as of late. A lot of people associate reading with boredom because to most, it feels like a chore to get through novels. If people would just read what they enjoyed, then they would begin again to see the pleasures of reading and thus, do more of it (he even makes a point that someone who reads only The Economist and th
There's a bit of circular logic to this, of course; how are you to know if you'll enjoy a book unless you start?
Which pretty much sums up all the trappings I fell into with Oscar Wao. I first became aware of it when I read an interview with Diaz on a comic book site I frequent.
Diaz decides to spend a LOT of time on the childhood and adolescence of Oscar and Lola's mother.
I'm sure there is some beautiful dovetailing of story lines later on, but the reading became a chore, and at that point I decided to take Nick Hornby's advice on how to proceed:"Put it down.
This was a Book Club choice that had me a little nervous but in the end had me tightly strapped in for the ride.As the title suggests, there is brevity to Oscar Wao's life.
Going into the read knowing this fact makes it even harder to accept as you have little hope that he will survive all that is thrown at him in his early years.
I am better man having read about Oscar than I was before.
here's the scoop: I read A LOT.
(Who knew they hated Haitians so much?) In fact, I expect any prominent Latin American author writing about their homeland to have some kind of educational element.Alas, the Spanish words intermixed into every other sentence?
(As an example, he pointed to how Lord of the Rings lovers will put up with countless pages of “f*cking Elvish poetry”.) Diaz also will admit he is a slow writer.
Plus in his acknowledgements, Diaz mentioned one of my all-time literary crushes, Francisco Goldman.
In Junot Diaz' debut novel, The Brief Wondrous Life of Oscar Wao, however, Oscar is the flame and we are the moths.
Diaz has been a middleweight figure on the literary scene for eleven years, based almost exclusively on his previous (and only) book Drown, a collection of interconnected stories which, like The Brief Wondrous Life of Oscar Wao, chronicled the Dominican immigrant experience with a startling freshness.
The Brief Wondrous Life of Oscar Wao bravely assumes there is an audience of readers who will sit through a long novel in which the English and Spanish languages mingle without the author once stopping to translate the unfamiliar words.

Or like the fat blackish kid in Beto Hernandez’s Palomar:(this is a creepy Daniel Clowes comic called "The Sensual Santa" to give you an idea)In contrast, Oscar (as well as his entire family) end up being at war with the actual creepy man, the ultimate Dominican stereotype, the sex fiend, Trujillo: hiding your doe-eyed, large-breasted daughter from Trujillo, however, was anything but easy.
It is a book about the magic of sex and it’s object, how much it is saved up for in the minds of men who think only about sex, how much it can dominate culture, how much people can wear it and how much it can control.
Junot Diaz’s 2007 Pulitzer Prize-winning novel The Brief Wondrous Life Of Oscar Wao  is an achingly beautiful, irresistibly harrowing depiction of Dominican Republic.The twentieth century’s one of the most disreputable dictators, Rafael Trujillo exercised absolute power over Dominican Republic like a feudal lord from February, 1930 until his assassination in May, 1961.
Plagued by an ancient Dominican curse, the novel chronicles the life of Oscar Wao, a contemporary immigrant on an unlikely journey where his want of personal love may come to an justifiable end.
GarbageThis book was recommended to me by my cousin so I thought I would like it. I was so wrong. All that's here is childish profanity, body-shaming, and portraying minorities is stereotypical ways. For an author who is so lauded, I am left confused at what he has to offer. It all seemed so forced and inorganic for something that was supposedly based on the author's past that it felt like a poorly drawn cartoon that fifth graders would make as if they were aiming to create the next South Park.
I subscribe to the belief that nowadays the family chronicle, the history that lives within a single human, event, thing...
well, all that is what readers wanna read & Pulitzer givers prize.Oscar Wao is about several things, but the main family curse, that which honors the BRIEF part (SPOILER ALERT this ain't) in the title, is the centerpiece.
He is unique because his family history is unique, rich, relevant.
It is almost one, and I will even say that it is way more readable, and yes, much more relevant to Mexico (and me) than the other aforementioned novels.
Now I will whine and do nerdy things, and occasionally mention them so that the cover blurb saying I'm the Dominican Tolkien won't be 100% inaccurate."If this is what you want to read, go ahead, be my guest.
Because I decided that *I* wanted to make my life awesome.I honestly was hoping to expand my reading tastes, to read about a Dominican guy who wanted to be like Tolkien.
I know I ought to TRY to get past 15% for my Book Club, but seriously, this is NOT WORTH my time.(Thanks to my fellow book club member who sacrificed her sanity and DID finish this to warn me away while I still had the chance.)
The wrapping might differ but the nest of mankind’s ignorance is essentially the same.In the twilight of one’s consciousness, where ebbing lives are bathed in lulling moonbeams and canefields cuddle broken bodies, the unconcerned hobbit of this story draws a weary smile and takes pride in having acted following the stars of love and literature in a Universe where nothing ever ends and where one can always open a new book and find a new beginning.
The sex and violence is crude too.
And then there's banal sex that devalues human connection and emotion, the kind of thing someone who was desensitized to real relationships in preference of porn would write.
Even inexperienced Oscar's interest in women is banal and of no depth.2.
I asked for spoilers at my book club from the only person who managed to make it to the end (nobody else liked it) and it doesn't sound like the ending is rewarding enough (or at all) to suffer through it.
Oftentimes I shelf a book on my did-not-finish shelf and think maybe someday I may return to it, but not this.
The Brief Wondrous Life of Oscar Wao is a great coming-of-age tale about a boy who wished to grow up but just couldn’t… He just managed to grow older.
The kids of color, upon hearing him speak and seeing him move his body, shook their heads.”He was a captive of the trash culture and he lived under its curse – those who admire superheroes and worship supermen unavoidably turn their own lives into a despicable shit.“It’s never the changes we want that change everything.”The changes that eventually changed his life were the truly fatal ones…The Brief Wondrous Life of Oscar Wao is a tragic story.“She would be a new person, she vowed.
Chances are, unless you're Dominican, a Caribbean history buff or a fan of Julia Alvarez's, you know mierda about Trujillo or his reign of terror or how badly Dominican women have been treated.And, if you haven't read this book.
you don't know Oscar Wao, and that's a tragedy.This book has flavor, it has history, it has imagination, it has science fiction, and, best of all, it has cojones.Diaz, through his narrator, Yunior, presents to the reader a sassy and intelligent Voice that you never doubt, not for one moment.
I wasn't expecting this book to be so sad.
The different perspectives, the family, the entire history and origin story of their curse and the island itself, no matter how far they were from it (even Japan) they were still connected to it.
Like it was some sorta secret the story wanted to let the reader in on, that even pretty people feel pain, and in some cases a similar pain to Oscar who was far from pretty.
I'm not entirely sure how I should end this other than saying--you should probably read this book.
I loved listening to this because Lin-Manuel Miranda narrated it and, subsequently, I was attuned to every word.
But although I loved listening to this, both because of Lin's voice and the content, I would love to revisit this in a few years and actually read it to see what else I can pull from it.
It's very different than anything I would typically read, and it delves so far into backstories and family lineage that I would love to try flying through it in order to pick up more connections.This was just a really brilliant story told through an interesting narrator, equal parts educational and tragic.
He has some nurturing and protection from his secretive mother and wild sister Lola, but his fatness, social ineptness, and geeky interests in comics, fantasy and sci fi, and, later, video games make it impossible for him to find love and assures he is an easy mark for bullies.
In a joint interview with Díaz and fellow writer and friend Francesco Goldman in the Christian Scientist Monitor, Diaz shares a lot on his struggles to achieve what I find as a perfect balance of light and dark in his book:"Oscar Wao" more than any of my other works was a delicate balancing act – keeping the voice from becoming too funny or too bleak, too historical or too nerdish.
Not sure what was so wondrous about Oscar's life.
Dotada de una característica heteriligüe (escrita en inglés con palabras de español dominicano), que usa aclaratorios y humorísticos pie de página para explicar al lector lo que no sabe sobre el gobierno del señor Trujillo (1930-1961), es una obra que no puede clasificarse como una novela del común, —Se me viene a la mente con el ingenioso uso de este recurso en Jonathan Strange and Mr. Norrell— más bien es una que se siente conforme en su estatus, en su diferencia.Desde su debut literario, el dominicano americano Junot Díaz ha trabajado por reflejar el mundo de los dominicanos inmigrantes en Estados Unidos y cómo en esta sociedad forman guettos en los que su cultura persiste, aunque no es la misma.
I don't know, I haven't figured out the system just yet.Maybe it was my utter lack of knowledge about the political turmoil that is the Dominican Republic in the 1950s.
(sure)Maybe it was the fact that I decided to take French(1) in High School.
1. In my defense, I did attend High School in New Hampshire from 1984-1988, and if you're at all familiar with this area and timeframe, you'd know that there is a heavy Canuck presence complete with Poutin and Bob & Doug MacKenzie references.
I am late to the party with Junot Diaz's work, but wow, what a book!
This is realistic adult fiction, with interlocking stories tracing several generations of a Dominican family.
I say 'realistic,' though it owes a debt of gratitude to the magic realism of Garcia Marquez and Borges.
I knew very little about the Dominican Republic before reading this novel.
Now I can't imagine how I got along without the wonderful voices and characters Diaz evokes.
It all adds up to a rich stew with wonderful, unexpected flavors mixed together.
It's about him trying to become a person the best he knows how, with all of that working against him, plus everything else his family has already gone through- about being a loner, an outcast not only from your age group, but from your family, your culture, even the supposed expectations of your gender.It's horribly sad on so many levels, and Diaz makes it sting all the harder with his vivid details, crushing turns of phrase and a memorable first person voice that plays with the art of storytelling in a narrative voice that is lucid, full of gallows humor and unsentimental about his deeply flawed, deeply scarred family.
Although the buzz for 'The Brief Wondrous Life of Oscar Wao' has been steadily building since it was released almost a year ago, the book I picked up at the bookstore had a big, gold starburst attached to it reading 'WINNER - 2008 Pulitzer Prize', and had been brandished 'THE BEST BOOK I EVER READ' by no less authority than my friend Kevin right here on this very website.
This bothered me, as it sort of altered my interpretation of the story up to that point and going forward.In the end though, these are small gripes, and the book is beautiful, affecting, and heartbreaking, because we've all known someone like Oscar, who just doesn't quite fit in, but wants to so badly, but not at the expense of being himself.
I learned a lot about the history and politics of the Dominican Republic during the Trujillo era, I knew next to nothing about the atrocities this country faced and what a history it is.
This book managed to tell the story not just of Oscar but the many characters with cheek and plenty of Spanglish humour that it could almost disguise the horror beneath the surface.
There were a few times where I had to gulp down some lumps in my throat.Not only was this story incredible but also informative with plenty of background history.
