https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/381614.A_Daughter_of_the_Land
A touching, moving, powerful story by Gene Stratton-Porter!
This book is unlike Mrs. Porter's A Girl of the Limberlost - which is a favorite of mine as well - but it's a wonderful one in a different way.
The characters are quite human and flawed; at times I was inwardly begging Kate not to do such-and-such; but she had my sympathy, the story is amazing and well-written, and I teared up at the end.
Won't say what happens, but the end is awesome and touching!
It shows the beauty of love and forgiveness.
It shows a picture of the brokenness around us.
I’d chalk that up to its being written a hundred years ago, but I didn’t get the same strange vibe with Freckles and Girl of the Limberlost, which I'd read to my daughters, or with the The Song of the Cardinal.Kate Bates, the protagonist, is the source of much of the off-feeling this book had to me.
Kate makes decisions on marriages quite suddenly, and people — “conveniently,” usually those who seem to be in her way — die often and quickly as well (can someone, and a young someone at that, “turn her face to the wall” after a deep conversation, and just die?
Kate Bates is the youngest of sixteen children, daughter of a rich but miserly and controlling father she defies his plans for her and leaves home at eighteen, looking to make her own way in life and find a man, a farm and a family.Kate is a pretty unconventional heroine for an early 20th century romance.
She was very successful, but on this evidence she did it, like her heroine Kate, her own way, not via any romance formulas.A Daughter of the Land has much to commend it, even though Kate's decision making exasperated at times, and it was more than just a tad overlong.
The woman who I read aloud to has a bookshelf of all her old - and I mean OLD!
SO far, the writing is decent and I'm on a history trip!Update 3/3/09 - I am into this book!
It's funny and surprising.Update 3/30/09 - This book just gets better and better.
Considering it was written in 1916, the only part I took offense at was when the main character despises a woman from a lower income bracket for marrying "above her class." I also noticed that people died awfully quickly once they made up their minds to do so.
Another good book by an excellent author. I didn't like everything she wrote. The author was a product of her time. You probably won't enjoy every book she wrote but this is one of the good ones.
The "Bates Way" didn't seem terribly admirable to me and I got sick and tired of Kate thinking any halfway intelligent or sensible action was somehow directly attributed to her mean miserly father's genes.
Seems the daughter took after Kate in making hasty marriages, but at least she had sense to marry a decent person who really loved her.That Kate didn't become a better person is a fine story arc, but it seemed the author thought Kate was an ideal heroine, Porter doesn't write bent or broken stories, they're whole -- good is good and bad bad, and there's no confusing of the two.
Kate Bates makes some ridiculous and seemingly out of character decisions in her life that could drive many people to enough frustration to abandon her as a heroine, but if you know and trust GSP, you know that there are reasons for these decisions that won't justify them, but will use them as a refining fire to transform her protagonist into a true heroine.
Despite my frustrations with Kate I loved her from the start and felt it refreshing to get to know a character that doesn't fit any typical wholesome character molds, while still being a wholesome character.
Just when I'm starting to get into the story and liking the characters, the author makes them say or do things that completely turn my crank.
But then she starts making some odd choices (I'm still not sure why she married the guy she married in the first place), practically turns her back on her own daughter because the daughter wanted the right to live her life her own way (sound familiar?
huh?
huh?), and then before a young father even gets the chance to be a father, she basically steals the baby away from him.
Not my favorite GSP book - I enjoyed the beginning, and was glad at the end, but everything in between was pretty hard work... I think she was trying for a story about a family full of "imperfect" people, which is fine - but a lot of the characters seem to make decisions that don't really make sense, except for the goal of GSP wanting to make them "imperfect". They just don't come across as genuine, believable choices I guess is what I'm saying... Glad I read this one, but probably won't be reading it again...
what i learned from this book is that it's better to do the right things for the wrong reasons than the wrong things for the right reasons! this poor woman does everything wrong and lives a horrible life because she overthinks everything - and yet people constantly go to her for advice, go figure.i grew up on my mother's copy of 'girl of the limberlost' but this wasn't the same kind of book at all - meant to be an adult novel and a morality take - not one of gene stratton-porter's best.
Though I am a Gene Stratton-Porter fan, this was not one of my favorites by her. Perhaps that is because the main character has more human weaknesses than other Stratton-Porterheroines; her life of struggles is caused to a large extent by her own actions. I'm glad I read the book, but it is not one that I would probably choose to read again.
I always loved The Girl of the Limberlost by Stratton-Porter. But with the kindle I have discovered more of her books. This one was great. You cannot imagine how much more bad luck could follow the main character. Despite it all she never gave up. Wonderful book.
Not what I expect in a novel. It was slow at times but the prose is very engaging. I wanted to find out what happened to Kate even when I felt that she couldn't make this worse. Take-away: TALK to the people in your like otherwise you could waste years of misunderstanding.
Another excellent book by Gene Stratton Porter. You can find my full review here.~Kellyn Roth
Since I had read an enjoyed several other books by this author, I was expecting to enjoy this one.
And not only that, but most of them died with no hope of salvation.There were multiple times the whiteout had been used (for which I was grateful!)All in all, this is not one I will be reading again.
Sure, their father is looked upon as a wealthy land owner in their farm community, and the family is large and spreading their work ethic past the original homestead; however, there are serious issues.
The youngest daughter, Kate, inherits the good with the bad and sets off to forge her way in life.
It seems that the impetus to set her off is being told that she must sit back and wait.
It is a real life love story, not only in terms of romance, but also love of family and love of the resources found in working the land.
A Tale of Hard Labor and True Love Stratton-Porter is a wonderful story teller. Kate is the last child of a large family and knows the meaning of hard work. She wants a chance at life while her Father desires that she stay home and continue work there. Kate leaves and her family disowns her! She has a hard life and endures many a setback before things finally turn around for her. An exceptional story that will make you laugh and cry. This book is another reason Stratton -Porter is one of our finest authors.
Interesting protagonist who doesn't make the decisions one might expect. Probably will re-read.
Daughter of the Land by Gene Stratton Porter is her least sentimental book yet.In the beginning, the reader would be forgiven for thinking that’s another tale of a neglected girl escaping her stern family to pursue an education (like A Girl of the Limberlost).
In the end, she and the millionaire (and his mother) will settle down happily on the farm, leaving the brutish doctor in the dust, and she will be reconciled with her obnoxious father.
And nobody is redeemed by nature.As I understand, Gene Stratton Porter was criticized, even in her own time, for having idealized characters and romantic plots.
An outcast from her family, she is left without their support or guidance as she faces the consequences of her choices.
It is only after the death of her father, that things begin to mend, and Kate's life takes a turn she never thought it would.I have such mixed feelings about this book, and picking a star rating was really hard.
Sometimes the circumstances and Kate's choices made me so angry that I wanted to stop reading.
When I first read this, as a teenager and huge fan of several other Porter titles ("Freckles", "Girl of the Limberlost", "Harvester"), I was shocked and turned off by what I felt was the darker tone of the writing and the generally gloomy events.
Since I have an anthology of Porter's novels on my Nook, I decided to re-read "A Daughter of the Land" while on vacation, and was quite surprised to find that it was humorous, and that as a character study it ranks--in my opinion--as her most original and realistic writing.
The plot is good but the tell overtakes the showing and the showing in the dialogue is rough.
The dialogue in the first few chapters falls apart because she can't master how much the country bumpkins speech patterns measure up to the people who are more worldly.
This is done quite well in the Hoosier School master.
There is incongruity in the dialogues between George and the protagonist .
I would love to see what Booth Tarkington would have done with this story, or George Ade or Thomas Hardy.
I think she was much more in her element writing the more romantic and lovely Girl of the Limberlost and Laddie.
I felt more like I wanted to smack Kate rather than side with her most of the time.
People do stupid things for the wrong reason all the time, and we don't usually see this handled in novels - so in that way, it was novel, lol.
Kate goes on to make more and more mistakes, usually through her own headstrong ways.
She treats people whom she feels are inferior to her terribly (look at poor Jennie) and people she likes not much better.
It was an interesting read, but there was just a lot of people behaving badly for no particular reason at all.
OceanPearl Books endeavors to provide well-informed book reviews, business readings, parenting tips, and consulting services for our clients.
And it's all for Free!OceanPearl Books - Book ReviewA rich land owner, Bates, deprives his daughters of their share and hands out two hundred acres land to each of his sons without giving them the title.
Kate Bates worked all her life to hand out land to her brothers.
Now she dreams of two hundred acres land of her own.
However, the strong character of Kate Bates is portrayed in great contrast to her wrong, life altering decisions.This book is available for FREE at http://manybooks.net/titles/portergee....Rating: 3/5
Kate Bates is a very strong character--almost like a legend with her great height, physical strength and ability to persevere despite making some hasty decisions.
Stratton-Porter weaves a large and encompassing story fit for Kate.
The author wrote expansive dialogue but would then skip years in one expository paragraph.
Although the book was published less than 100 years ago, the book used some unusual words (e.g.
"telescope" for suitcase) and convuluted and/or vague dialogue that made the book difficult to understand at times.
But despite its weaknesses, I still found the story and characters very compelling and enjoyed reading it.
An easy reading with enough twists and turns to hold one's interest.
Just as you become complacent and think 'I know where it is going', the author springs a nasty little surprise on you and keep the story going at a steady pace.
Kate, the central character, is headstrong and diligent albeit a bit impulsive and altogether very likable and inspiring.
The manner in which Kate holds her head up through all her struggles, preserve her self-dignity and never fails to speak her mind.
I really enjoyed this book, maybe even more than the other 2 I've read by this author.
I have noticed how much she feels that the "classes" should not mix.
Kind of an old fashioned idea that I'm glad we've grown out of in America.
155, "We are all more interested in ourselves than in any one else in this world, until love comes; then we soon learn to love a man more than life, and when a child comes we learn another love, so clear, so high, so purifying, that we become of no moment at all, and live only for those we love."
However, if you are wanting to see real life people that have real life problems and human weakness this is your book.
This book shows how a family that has no God in their lives and behaves poorly to each other yields lives that have appropriately negative consequences.
But the elders recognize their weakness, the children break the cycle, and the grandchildren get it figured out.
This book would be a great book to compare against characters found in "Laddie." Very opposite families that have opposite results.
But it is redemptive, our heroine finds God and finds peace.
i'm a little sad about this one, because i am a big fan of a girl of limberlost - elnora and phillip are particularly admirable people and yeah, they're excessively good, but they're lovably so. this particular character rubbed me the wrong way - was kate meant to actually be someone to be admired? or maybe the moral is good things happen to faulty people too, i guess? because kate's excessive pride pretty much asserts itself in the worst way possible at multiple points in the book but kate seems to... not realize or notice? i'm not actually sure.
Kate is the main character in this story and lately I have started finding myself wondering what Kate would do. This read can be hard because it feels like she keeps getting smacked down regardless of all her hard work. However, she observes that it seems like those who have to work hard are those that turn out the best.  She is tenacious, hard working, diligent, and strong. When life starts getting laborious, I find myself encouraged knowing that Kate would keep at it. She would push forward until she's reached her goal.
