https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/13083.Hoot
I thought I was too old for Hoot's message but Carl Hiassen proved me wrong.
Hoot, with it's wonderfully developed array of the most interesting characters I've seen since The Importance of Being Earnest, goes beyond the story of Roy Edberhart (if that's how you spell it), Mullet Fingers, and Beatrice Leep in their struggle against the building of a Mother Paula's Pancake house.
This book is just a reminder that as Paper Towns spring up the animals are forced to flee or die.
Recommended for anyone who liked Paper Towns by John Green or The Lorax by Dr. Seuss.
This book is extraordinarily okay.
Hiassen is masterful in the way he never goes astray, never veers into good, never dips into bad; it's a stunning, tour-de-force of okay.
If you set out to write a book that was just okay enough to keep reading, but not so good that you actually started to like it, this would be it.
It honestly couldn't have been more okay if it tried.
Meh. Do you see the level of ambivalence this okay book inspires?
I liked it a perfectly okay amount.
It won't disappoint you.
It won't excite you.
He is slowly but surely devouring each of Mr. Hiaasen's novels so I decided to jump on the bandwagon and see what it's all about.The main plot of Hoot is an ecological thriller/mystery of sorts centering on endangered burrowing owls.
The middle-school aged characters are great and I enjoyed seeing young perspectives about adults, rules/laws, and the environment in general.
I mean, look at these little guys...If you know any elementary or middle school-aged kids, recommend Mr. Hiaasen to them...or better yet, gift them one of his books for young readers!
About what you would expect from a cheesy, feel-good YA novel. I probably would have rated it higher if I was a teen (some YA translates well to adults, not really so much here). But, it wasn't bad and I can definitely see myself recommending it to my kids when they are teenagers.
Hoot by Carl Hiaasenis a coming of age story that I adored. It has everything a kid could relate to -bullies, not fitting in, wanting to help, a noble cause, friendship, and family. The best part was the cute owls and the way the author brought the wonderful characters to life! I understand it is a movie! I will have to see it now. It may have been a preteen book but I enjoyed every moment!
The following review is by my son and padawan Liam:I give HOOT 4 and a half stars. I liked how there was a mysterious running boy called "Mullet Fingers." I liked how Mullet Fingers and Beatrice are related. I like how Roy tricked Dana into thinking there were cigarettes in a trailer and that he stepped in the mouse traps.I disliked that the ending kind of left you hanging. I also didn't like that the story is called "Hoot" and you don't figure out the title until the very end.I would definitely recommend this book to other kids.
I love Carl Hiaasen's YA novels and this one was TREMENDOUS! Takes place on the Left Coast of FL and has a great cast of characters to love and to dislike. I am an old fart(68),but I still enjoy a well written YA book and HOOT is definitely one!
Till there you can see it’s a dumb and boring stories story but when mullet fingers starts risking his liberty painting the cops cars windows in black and trespassing private property not going to school (which is illegal in Florida) and escaping from his parents you are obviously in suspense.
I can imagine perfectly how Dana is struggling poor Roy. The techniques Carl uses in this book are to have 2 settings and that in the end they unite and also she is having you with suspense so you keep reading it and also it has a bit of mystery.
This book shows care towards owls
Roy a boy that notices Mullet Fingers running one day in the street, starts getting filled with curiosity all related to the boy.
With great imagery, the author clearly describes the child's point of view throughout the whole tail.
Hiaasen uses great techniques one can clearly notice along the book.
"Roy zipped through his homework" is one of the statements that Carl uses instead of just saying he was done with homework rapidly, which makes it sound boring.
I also liked how he said " Mullet Fingers, dying of ferocity but strength" instead of just saying he was really angry and brave.
The plot was clever, the main characters believable, and I very much appreciated the message taught in the book...not so much the environmental message, which was fine, but the message that sometimes life presents us with alternatives which aren't clearly black or white and we have to dig down inside ourselves to figure out what to do when outside sources don't have all the answers.
I appreciated the parents in this book who were supportive but allowed their son to make his own decisions.
But, as they were relatively minor characters it didn't cause a significant decrease in my enjoyment of the book.
Great for those who enjoy a bit of a mix of mystery & menace, and like the underdogs to win! When a young man seeks to protect an endangered owl habitat, his actions effect an entire community in hilarious ways.Great for ages 8-adults...adults like me who like to finish a few books in a day or 2 in order to move on to the next great piece of writing.
i love this book, great 4 envirnment crazy ppl like me!
His favorite characters:Roy - Main character and new kid at Trace Middle SchoolMullet Fingers - The shoeless running boy that provides much of the mystery/ intrigue of the bookDana Matherson - The bully (<- mostly just because he liked to laugh at every time Dana tried to beat up Roy and couldn't)His favorite parts:(view spoiler)[When Mullet Fingers paints the windows of Officer Delinko's patrol car (hide spoiler)](view spoiler)[When Roy tricks Dana into getting caught at the construction site (hide spoiler)](view spoiler)[When all of the kids hold hands around Mullet Fingers and the owl burrow to protect them from destruction (hide spoiler)]Things, as a parent, that I wish were different:Beatrice the Bear, who becomes friends with Roy eventually, is the only female child that has a role in the book.
This is familiar territory for Hiaasen as he’s written so many book set in Florida and also dealt with the environment and corrupt politicians and business in his other books that this world felt familiar yetfresh cause of the younger angle.Story: The story is paced really well with wonderful dialog and chemistry between the characters.
All the pieces are here and the story plays out the way a Hiaasen book plays out but this time through the eyes of a child and it makes for fun in a different sort of way.
I found the book entertaining, but due to the genre it just wasn't an amazing book. I found it tolerable and one of the best realistic fiction books I have read, but it is still realistic fiction.
Animal lovers surely will love this book...Hoot began when Roy Eberhardt saw a barefoot boy running fast past the bus stop.
Roy was curious because the boy didn't go to any school.
Through Beatrice, a tall girl who played soccer, Roy knew about the boy, who was called Mullet Fingers.
He's an animal charmer who wanted to prank Mother's Paula pancake people out of town.
..It must be nice to be Roy, who had to move a lot due to Mr Eberhardt's job.
Sure it's inconvenient to be the new kid many times but Roy had seen the world a lot.
This past week I chose to re-read Hoot.
I remember reading it in Middle School, and I liked it so much that I bought it.
The tale of 3 kids trying to save an endangered species nests from being bulldozed over by a pancake corporation really makes me want to help out too.
The story makes me more aware of the environment, and makes me question how many real life situations similar to this have occurred, and no one ever knew.
I believe it is important to make a difference and stand up for what you believe in.
As I found this book entertaining for a younger audience it was still an enjoyable story. I quite liked how one kid changed the mind of others by showing them the wrong others were doing and did his best to protect the owls that a major company was ignoring because they wanted to build and didn't care what the cost was as long as they got the land. It was a powerful message being told here.
I really liked this book. I read it last year and like it so I read it again, and I liked it the same.
This be a review of the other four books: hoot, flush, chomp, squirm.
All of them involve a young boy who lives in Florida, gets bullied, loves animals, has a quirky sense of humor, makes new friends, and saves the day.
This book follows a boy named Wahoo (worst name ever) as he works with his dad as an animal wrangler for a wildlife reality tv show.
It is over-the-top and ridiculous and I loved it.squirm: This book was slightly different in that part of it takes place in Montana and there is an absent dad who certainly doesn’t win any awards for best parent.
First OBOB read for the 2018 season, and this is a great start. Hoot is a fast, funny read with elements of mystery and action thrown in. The message is spot-on with empowering kids to make changes by making the right choices and taking stands. This isn't sugar coated either as not every issue can so easily be resolved. Great OBOB choice and fun for the whole family.
I don't like this book since I first read it in 6 grade, now I still don't :p The plot is not interesting so I only get to finish half of the book
This was such a cute and funny book I read it a few years back. Now rereading it I still love it just as much as I did then. I'd recommend it to anyone and everyone.
He gets in a lot of trouble, but eventually finds out that the running boy is a classmate’s step brother, and that he’s trying to save an endangered species of owls whose habitat is at risk (a pancake house is about to bulldoze their nesting site to make way for a new restaurant).
The boy (Napoleon Bridger) has been trespassing at the construction site – pulling up their survey stakes, putting alligators in their port-a-potties, removing the seats from the earth moving equipment – and Roy resolves to find a way to help him (and the owls).
I think this because the book ended with the three teenagers saving the owls and their environment.
This book was about, this boy named Roy starting a new school.
On his first day going on the school bus he noticed a boy running really fast (probably faster than the bus) barefooted and thats when he stated wondering thinks.
Then this girl, realized that he was staring at the boy barefooted and told Roy to kept his mouth shut.
Later on that day, Roy decided to bring the barefooted boy sneakers just in case he wanted them and was poor or something.
Not bad - writing is lucid, characters are reasonably interesting, etc.
It seems to be the theme of nearly every Saturday morning cartoon anymore (although I suppose it's usually super heros or faries or something acting as the protagonists rather than 12 year olds.) So, like I said: a decent and reasonably engaging treatment of the subject - and yes, at least a BIT more nuanced than the typical Saturday cartoon - but it doesn't seem to be worth the hooplah and the Newberry award.
Our son started to read this book, so I thought I would read it too so we could discuss it.
If you believe it shouldn't be built that is fine, but to celebrate a child or anyone who breaks the law to save the environment or animals is not right in my book.
I looked at other children's books he has written and they seem to follow the same theme.
I would not like any book that promotes this type of behavior even if it was for a cause I believed in, because the end does not justify the means.
Funny. Silly. This is not brilliant writing, but that's a good thing. Hiaasen makes good points, some good jokes (and some cheesy ones, too), and provides a lot of fun with some serious environmentalism, and we know we need both. Good read.
I tried to read this a couple years ago and was not into it at all. I kept on reading maybe thinking it was a slow beginning but it wasn't. The story was slow. Nothing really made me wanting to turn the page. I thought this could be a lot better.
