https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/9307674-the-last-guardian
(A-) 84% | Very GoodNotes: A series that's lived off Chekhov's Gun sees its most poignant use. The usual peril is boosted by bursts of emotionality.
I'm sitting here, looking back at the first time I picked up Artemis Fowl, remembering how much I didn't love it at first.
The Atlantis Complex fell out with the rest of the series, and, here we are with The Last Guardian, at the ending - or, perhaps, the beginning - of all things.
We can't read heavy college class lit books all day, everyday: and it is in this - in the easy, whimsical escape from reality - that Artemis Fowl: The Last Guardian succeeds, completely and surely.
(Although, even then I was taking note of how rushed the beginning seemed - as soon as the first chapter starts, the book informs us that Artemis was now cured completely, and then proceeds to rush headlong into the action.
What did Artemis learn from the experience, given that he was back to his old self again immediately after?)It started off so strong, but quickly crossed into the realm of the absurd, as I discovered when I moved farther into the book.
This book does not tie up the Artemis Fowl series in a pretty little bow.
Eoin Colfer is back with a bang, and how!The Last Guardian  has : - Criminal Mastermind Juvenile Genius, Artemis Fowl, back in full form and all his brainiac glory.- Captain Holly Short, as kick-ass as ever.- Butler, still hoping his primary's end-of-the-world shenanigans stop for good, soon!- Myles and Beckett Fowl, Artemis's four-year old siblings.
(view spoiler)[I wanted to know what happened to everybody and how they set about coping in the "new world" what with technology everywhere being destroyed...
Only Eoin Colfer would be able to write a scene wherein friends drug eachother into something where I wanted to scream "CONFESS YOUR EVERLASTING LOVE FOR EACHOTHER, DAMMIT!" But the point at which I really lost it was when they had laid out the clone, and Holly was calling for Artemis to come back.
So, I thought, it would be better to read this and finish this series rather than being disturbed all the time.Well, this book was great!
THINGS I LIKED   => I liked that Artemis got free from Atlantis Complex( a disease he got in the last book).
If the writer wanted to make Artemis just like his before self after curing the disease, then why the heck he got that in the first place.
The one reason that comes in my mind is that, maybe Mr. Colfer wanted to show us Artemis' Good side??
That Mr. Colfer didn't cure Artemis in the Last book.
How does one review an Artemis Fowl book?
He's written a book series that is so good, I can't possibly begin to do it justice with a review.
Example A: Artemis Fowl is a nice guy who wants to do good in the world.
The other major thing I love about Artemis Fowl books is the signature Eoin Colfer humor.
Even more so than the other Artemis Fowl books.
In one of my other reviews, I described the end of Pendragon like this: "OH-MY-GOODNESS-WHAT-IN-HALLA-JUST-HAPPENED, Oh-that's-adorable!, I-DON'T-UNDERSTAND-THIS-AT-ALL-BUT-I-LOVE-IT-ANYWAY....NO-WAIT-IT'S-PERFECT!" The end of the entire Artemis Fowl series was a bit in this same vein, for me.
I’d like to think The Last Guardian is my reward for my perseverance and, well, it’s not perfect but I’d go insane if I’d expected a perfect ending after the most recent couple of books.Anyway, the plot this time around probably makes even less sense than all the previous plots combined.
That’s still a problem here, once all the players are at Fowl Manor and it’s time for Artemis to stop Opal, sure we have some scenes with possessed pirate zombies and killer woodland creatures, but, nah, it’s still the same cheesy weakness that really sunk these last couple of books.
The plot twists, and Artemis' ingenious plans to deal with them, were also probably the least interesting/brilliant yet, with the exception of the one at the very end.Because this is book 8, at this point there is probably little my review can do to influence your book-reading decision.
Either you've followed the series till now and will most likely feel obliged/excited to read the final installment as I did, or you haven't read them (or stopped earlier on) and won't get to this for a while.
Will always love Artemis Fowl and Colfer, and really look forward to reading his next series!
First Nevermore was a complete catastrophe, then THIS....this atrocity is published!
This felt like Eoin Colfer wanted to get rid of Artemis, and he wanted to get rid of him fast, so he (view spoiler)[ wrote out a short little plot, killed Artemis, and then brought him back to life so the fangirls wouldn't get him (Colfer).
(hide spoiler)]This book felt like Colfer had taken one of the action-packed scenes from the whole of one of the previous books, stretched it here and there, and tacked on an appropriate ending.
It literally felt like one loooong scene.
im glad theyve got a title out, but now i have many more questions.
i cant wait until theyre answered [Spring of 2012??
I can't wait!
And I'm very upset with you, Mr. Colfer, for making me wait longer than "spring of 2012"!!
It better be worth the wait, or you'll feel my wrath!!**UPDATE 7/9/12***gasp!* I just realized...July 10, 2012...THAT'S TOMORROW!
Though that's certainly an...interesting way to end a series...O.oI love Artemis.
I love him so much.
(view spoiler)[I'm so glad she died, but how could Mr. Colfer end the series without doing so?
It had a slow beginning where I started to get irritated at the writing, but I think that may have been me being a weird reading mood and cranky.
But once I was half way through, it got back to the old feeling that I had with the series for the first 6 books.
I'm very happy to have finished this series and know this final tale in their story.
I think people who prefer definite endings won't be satisfied with it because it left me with more than a few curious questions, but I didn't have a problem with how it ended.
Dear Eoin Colfer, thank you for introducing me to this world, to all the beautiful & amazing characters. I am so honored to travel along the journey of this series <3
خیلی ناراحتم که جلد آخر یکی از محبوب ترین مجموعه هام رو خوندم :(و تموم شد :(
I've met the rule breaking, first female Captain of the LEP, Holly Short, the always hilarious dwarf Mulch Diggums, (Which by the way created a whole new character for the title "dwarf" which I was at first confused by but came to love and accept), the ever-intimidating, loyal, and all around Bad-@$$ Butler, who was by far my favorite character; I came to hate, admire, miss and finally understand Julius Root; I was easily able to hate one of the worst antagonists in book lore, Opal Koboi, and then of course there was Artemis Fowl: Artemis was a character I hated, despised, appreciated, pitied, liked, and respected this individual who had such an amazing change of character he came to hate himself.
I finally read the book and it was really good...
I think I gave this book 5 stars because I love this series  and I'm in love with Artemis but there were some parts I found really disappointing.
There was non-stop action, which in a way is a good thing but I wish they would have slowed down a bit in some parts.
I think I read the book way to fast as well, maybe if I took my time and spent a few days on it instead of a few hours I would have liked it more.
روند داستان رو دوست داشتم...
(نثرشو خیلی دوست دارم) سر هر چیز طنز کوچک هم کلی خندیدیم اشک از چشمانمان جاری شد :دی ولی پایانش...
به نظرم اصن مایلز و آرتمیس باید میمردن...
بعد همش من باید تو خیالاتم تبهکاریای جدید اینارو تصور کنم و چون حال نوشتن ندارم تو ذهنم فن فیکشن بنویسم :)) اینش بد شد...
کالفر اگه نمیخواست ادامه ش بده باید تمومش می کرد...
:|باز این به کنار...
روند بزرگ شد آرتی...
ای خداااااا :(((((باز خوبه 25 سالگی ش رو ندیدیم...
وگرنه اونجا داشت به نامزدش اس میداد :| هنوزم شخصیتش دوست داشتنی و جذاب بود ولی...
That last book :( Makes me sad, have been reading these since they first came out!Well, finished the book, and I am not sure what to think of it. It was a wonderful as all the others, but I can't help feeling that the book finished as an unending. There was no closure, no closed ends. I wonder if he has left it like that to perhaps write more of the series in the future?
با اینکه تم مشکلاتی که که توی این داستان هست خیلی وخیم تر و جدی تر و بی رحمانه تر از مسائل داستان های قبلیه ولی من خواننده حس میکردم دارم ماجراجویی آرتمیس در یک ماجرای معمولی ، از همون جنس ماجرا جویی های قبلی رو میخونم .
اگه کتاب توی همون فصل یکی مونده به آخر تموم میشد میتونستم بگم با اینکه کتاب چندان خوبی نبود ولی پایانش از اون جنس پایان هایی بود که من خیلی دوست دارم .
I know that all good things must come to an end but this was especially cruel.
I am never satisfied when TV shows or other books end it in a similarish way to how this was ended, but after much pondering and a good deal of listening to fan mixes whilst roiling emotions threatened to make me crawl into my sock drawer and cry for days and re-reading sections of the book, I came to a conclusion.
Fan Mix1.The Birth of an Idea (Zack Hemsey) - Artemis(8) in Fowl Manor2.
End of An Era (Zack Hemsey) - Artemis (8) Sacrifice6.
The last Artemis Fowl book. Oh Artemis how I shall miss you! This book had laying laughing and screaming and TOTALLY fangirling. I love you Artemis, though I'm a bit dissapointed, you're so 'good'. What happened to that bad boy from the first few books? No matter, it was awesome none the less.I'm shipping Holly/Bulter. They understand each other! :DIt was a nice wrap up, I guess. (view spoiler)[When Arty died, I was crying like a pathetic baby. If he hadn't come back, I would have ran around the neighborhood screaming and sobbing. (hide spoiler)]
CLIFFHANGERCLIFFHANGERCLIFFHANGERCLIFFHANGERCLIFFHANGERCLIFFHANGERCLIFFHANGERCLIFFHANGERCLIFFHANGERCLIFFHANGERCLIFFHANGERCLIFFHANGERCLIFFHANGERCLIFFHANGERCLIFFHANGERCLIFFHANGERCLIFFHANGERCLIFFHANGERCLIFFHANGERCLIFFHANGERCLIFFHANGERCLIFFHANGERICLIFFHANGERCLIFFHANGERCLIFFHANGERCLIFFHANGERCLIFFHANGERCLIFFHANGERCLIFFHANGERCLIFFHANGERCLIFFHANGERCLIFFHANGERCLIFFHANGERCLIFFHANGERCLIFFHANGERCLIFFHANGERCLIFFHANGERCLIFFHANGERCLIFFHANGERCLIFFHANGERCLIFFHANGERCLIFFHANGERCLIFFHANGERCLIFFHANGERCLIFFHANGERCLIFFHANGERCLIFFHANGERCLIFFHANGER
¡5 cerrado, que parece más 10 que otra cosa! ¡Eoin Colfer la hizo de oro y diamantes!¡OH! ¡Mi corazón! ¡¡adsafssrafsgstshshsgsjsksjsksksk!! ¡Mi corazón! *A lot of feelings and tears* *A lot* Alerta de fangirleo extremo...continúe bajo su responsabilidad xD De todos los libro que he leído (y disfrutado) de esta serie, este es el mejor por lejos. De verdad, fue un gran gran final para la saga, grande con letras itálicas. He amado cada hoja, sufrido, reído, llorado y en fin, simplemente me encantó.
A pesar de que sé que Eoin Colfer es un autor irregular, no me importa, quiero más libros de Artemis, porque hasta los "menos buenos" de esta saga, son mejores que la mayoría de lo que se lee hoy de este género (Si, te miro a ti Percy Jackson).La trama (view spoiler)[{Opal, la duendecilla megalomaníaca y rival de todos, quiere apodararse del mundo, para lo cual desata el Armagedón} (hide spoiler)] a medio camino entre lo mágicamente apocalíptico y detectivesco, realmente me mantuvo en vilo como ninguna otra.
Let us begin!Oh dear.Oh godThis bookThis seriesThis ..okay well the first page confused me a little(so I decided to reread the entire series)Aha!So.I still have no knowledge of these Berserkers ...oh well.It was nice to refresh my memory anyway.GodFeelsGodI have a bad feeling about this ...- ten minutes later -I finished my vanilla ice cream about five minutes in.I feel a little bad but I still have my trusty chocolates.They'll have to make do.OPALDAMN IT OPALWHY ARE YOU ALWAYS RIGHTWHYWHYWHYNONOOO..AlsoPaper age?
I feel like the last two books in the series might've spawned from ideas or even short stories that were set earlier in the series, and that the author took these ideas and reworked them into the last two novels to fill a contract or something.
Myles simply goes to bed and Beckett is never mentioned again after the berserkers leave.Mulch: Goes from being friends with Artemis to robbing his house.
Another thing that makes me wonder if these novels were written out of order.Nopal: Hinted to possibly have a soul by Holly in the beginning, and then shown not to have anything at the end, which convienently allows for Artemis's resurrection.
But what I can remember, and will carry with me, are the times I spent reading each book.
Thank you for the years of happiness.Artemis Fowl was the first series I have ever read, and probably will ever read, where the main character begins as the bad guy.
However horribly, horribly cheesy it may be, there's nothing quite like losing yourself in an Artemis Fowl book.
And thank you for the times to come.
But I want my grandchild to read these books and go on the fantastical, amazing journey I did.
So, for the last time, thank you Mr. Colfer.
But the most important reason I dont want to read this book is because ever since root died in the third book,I've been worried which other major character colfer might kill off.WHAT IF HOLLY DIES?????But I'm gonna calm down now before I get over worked.WHAT IF FOALY DIES????NOOOOOO!!!!!That cannot happen.OMG?WHAT IF ARTEMIS DIES AND THEN HOLLY MOURNS OVER HIS DEATH BUT THEN SHE KILLS HERSELF AS WELL AND THEN FOALY DIES TOO BECAUSE ONE OF HIS MACHINE INVENTION THINGIES BACK FIRES!!!!!!!!!!so many bad things could happen...but I swear that if colfer kills off any of them then I will get my super ray gun and break down his door and turn him into an ice cream.so colfer beware....
The book begins by sidestepping the atlantis complex, simply declaring that Artemis has been cured.
Colfer had the chance to really send things off on a high note here, and provide the series with a more mature ending, but he goes for something overly sentimental.
In the previous book, The Atlantis Complex a number of ideas were presented and dropped within the first thirty pages, or simply not even acknowledged.
Artemis' split personality, one half technically brilliant the other physically adept.
These frustrating possibilities for the story, along with annoyingly simplified prose make this book a sad ending for a series that I've been following for the past eleven years.
At first it has an interesting beginning with Opal trying to rule the world again, but as soon as the book takes off it turns into a meandering round-around in Fowl manor.
I mean those were not hints, those were giant shipping boulders.In the end, I just do not think this book did a good job at wrapping up this series or had a fun enough story.
I mean the Time Paradox and Atlantis Complex were very silly, absurd books, but they were fun.
While I was never a huge fan of the 5th Fowl book, that was a better series ending than this one.
This was probably my favorite of the whole series. Which is hard for the final book to do. Hair of the teeth action for a lot of it but you still get the characters personalities throughout. I pretty much loved this one. Can't give away too much in the review but it was ended perfectly.
