https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/165446.Ride_the_Wind
It was kinda surreal reading it, because the story of Quanah Parker is pretty well known to me, I learned about him in various Oklahoma history classes growing up, and the mall I grew up going to is even in the city Cynthia Ann and Quanah are buried, and the mall is on the Quanah Parker by-pass.Going into a book about the Indians' dying way of live will of course be sad, but the utter hopelessness and heartbreak of this ending left me upset and even vaguely unsatisfied.
I'm not saying that as a fault of the book-it is what actually happened.Anyway, even after having my heart broken at the end...I have to say it was worth it, this is a BEAUTIFULLY written story, and I will undoubtedly be picking it up again someday.
A CAPTIVATING, HAUNTING GLIMPSE INTO TEXAS HISTORYMany of the paperback covers make this book look like a cheesy western romance novel.
Ride the Wind is based on the true story of Cynthia Ann Parker, who was kidnapped in 1836 during a brutal raid by the Comanche Indians, then adopted and raised by the tribe.
The novel sticks with the true story, and it ends in heartbreak, but it is truly a captivating, haunting glimpse into Texas history.
It made the “best-loved books” list for both myself and my 97-year-old grandmother, and will be a favorite for readers who love adventure, history, romance, and Comanche Indian culture.
The beginning depicts, in graphic detail, a large group of American Indians attacking a Fort.
The few that were unfortunate enough to be taken captive are then repeatedly gang raped, burned and abused.
Cynthia was 9 years old when she was taken as a captive by Wanderer who was 16.
She was almost raped, but Wanderer prevented it.
The author did not come right out and say this, but Wanderer and the others that Cynthia continues to live with, participated in the continued nightly rapes of her Aunt--who was pregnant and nursing a child.
The book goes into excruciating detail of the Indian way of life.
My favourite of the various books that Ms. Robson has written. Don't be fooled by the cover -- this is not a romance novel by any means. It's smart, intelligent and based around a real story -- that of Cynthia Ann Parker.
3.5There is a great deal of details involving the lives and customs of the plains Indians in this version of the Cynthia Anne Parker story. This was a very romanticized depiction, but there are some extremely brutal scenes throughout the story. Aside from the gushy romance, this novel was told with great adventure and detail. Good for details on the lives of the Native Americans, good for an adventurous story, not so good for the facts about the life of Cynthia Anne Parker.
The last time I bought it, I was told it was out of print, so I held on to that copy.I've always been interested in Native American history, and I remember how that interest fired when I read the back cover of this.
Much of what Ms St. Clair Robson wrote of their lives was taken from published interviews with Quanah Parker, who by all accounts was quite charming and social and loved to talk about his mother.I think I was just a few years out of high school when I first read this, yet I can tell you everything that happened here.
One of my personal all-time favorites. Do not be put off by the rotten cover. This isn't a trashy sex romance. It is actually a true story - the major incidents did happen. You'll become deeply attached to the characters and be heartbroken, in more ways than one, when it ends. I have spoken.
The white child who grows to marry a chief.
Not only to their enemies, but to each other.She teaches you how harmoniously the Original Americans lived with the land.
They understood the value of the land, the animals, the human spirit.
They valued their children as treasures instilled with their future.The end of the book is brutal.
Not physically, but it brings up the question: At what point is a kidnapping victim no longer a victim?
Where they are most needed, wanted, regardless of their personal wishes?I cry each time I come to the end.
If you are looking for a book about what it would be like to live with Indians, this is the book.
It is based on the true story of a 9 year old white girl that was captured by Indians.
The story line is definitely fictional though, as there is no written account from Cynthia Anne, the white girl, only that information from her white relatives and her oldest son, Quanah, the last free Indian Chief.
She lived with them for 24 years before she was discovered and returned to her family.
Yes, there is better writing, but man oh man, what a story!
I learned about Native Americans, the Texas Rangers, and Westward Expansion, in a way that I never learned in school.
Learned about daily life, motivations, and how the Indians and settlers impacted each other.
The book doesn't whitewash Indian attrocities, you do not get a trite, "at-one-with-nature" view of the Native Americans.
Yet even after reading about cruel and twisted acts by the Indians I feel much more empathetic to what happened to them.
Oh, and it is based on a true story!
I read this book years and years ago, and it's still one of my favorites. I could not put this down. The descriptions are so vivid I could smell the prairie air, and the characters are done so well they've stayed with me all these years. I loved the hero, Nocona, so much I even named my next dog after him :)A warning though, this book is absolutely wrenching and not for the faint of heart. But I promise if you read it, you'll never forget it. Incredible piece of writing.
Still one of my all time favorite books! Based on historical events, this is a story of Cynthia Ann Parker’s abduction and assimilation into the lives of the Comanches that kidnapped her. It outlines the gradual fall of the people. Beautiful, yet haunting. The incredible sadness will stay with you for months, if not years.
One of my favorite books of all time! The story of Cynthia Ann Parker, so if you are into Texas history you will love it! The opening scene is extremely gruesome, so just be forewarned. After that, it isn't quite so graphic. Lucia St. Clair Robson does a brilliant job relaying this story in a captivating, compelling and compassionate way. . .
This was one of my books from my high school days in the 1990's. I read it several times. I was very into historical fiction/non-fiction. It was amazing how much life St. Clair Robson breathed into a real story. A must read for any Native American History fan!!
One of my all-time favourite books. I still get emotional even though I have read it several times. A classic.
Excellent book on the life of Cynthia Ann Parker and the last days of the free Comanche.
She is able to weave the true events of Cynthia Ann's life, and the daily details of the lives of the Comanche into a book that keeps the reader engaged and interested throughout the entire 600 pages.
That's not an easy feat.I would recommend this book for those interested in Native American culture, historical novel readers, Texas and/or the Old west history lovers and those who like very sweet love stories.
It was so well written, and yet parts were SO BORING.
As I read the book I became one of the People and I fell in love with the characters.
I thought the beginning was a little much.
Just as the violence was pretty detailed.
I don't know why those were ever necessary because they were drop dead boring.
The book could have been at least 100 pages shorter if we didn't have to read about random hairy soldier guys.
Well, how about best love story with the weirdest beginning ever.
The plot was quite fascinating and I liked the Wanderer/Nadua love story.On the other hand, the first half of the book was markedly better than the second half.
The second half was full of cliches,e.g., "We're in love and our two awesome horses had TWINS that look just like their parents".
It also seemed to move a lot slower for me in the second half.Something I'm not sure about- the violence in this book.
I'm not sure when I last read something with such potent images of rape, torture, killing.
Now, don't get me wrong- I think these portrayals were necessary in the context of the story, but...
This book continues to remain one of my favorite books of all time.
This is not a romance, it's one of one several historical fiction books written by this author that feature real people and real stories.
Her research and portrayal of the Comanche is spot on.
It's brutal and loving all at the same time.
It's a historical fiction because Cynthia Anne never spoke of her life.
She was captured when she was 9, she spent 24 years with the Comanche and died within a few years of being rescued.
Despite the deceiving cover that makes it look like a cheap romance, Ride the Wind shares the story of a young girl who is adopted into a Native American tribe.
As she grows, the American government's presence becomes even more prominent and threatens the traditional culture and way of life for her adopted family.
I felt that Lucia St.Clair Robson really wanted readers to get a feeling for 19th century life, the dangers faced by early settlers, the life of the Native Americans etc.
Some readers might find the graphic violence, including rape and torture, to be too much to stomach.
My Mom was really into Native American books, so I read this book when I was a teenager. I wasn't all that into reading novels at the time, but I loved this book. Afterward, I tried to read Follow The River (it's another historical fiction novel) and could not get interested in it because I just kept comparing it to Ride the Wind. I was very intrigued by the Native American lifestyle and it had a wonderful love story.
DNFing at the 50% point.
I don't have a strong enough stomach for this book.
I was warned that it was violent, and I thought I could handle it (I've read a Brief History of Seven Killings...twice, so I'm not exactly a lightweight).
The writing style was also not that great.
There was too much "First, she did this, and then she did this, and then she did this, followed by doing this and then she did some more." AHHH!!!
I was not enjoying this book at all, and would much rather be reading something that I did.
Well, I gave this 4 stars because it really is a great story and I enjoyed it for the most part. But, it was SO long! I felt like it was the book that never ended. It just kept going and going. I would have enjoyed it more if some of the needless details were cut out. But it really is an incredible story that was told really well.
I knew that the story was true, but I was blown away by the details of the different tribes, the differences in raiding, hunting, moving, eating, even the way they abused and mutilated their captives (and themselves while grieving).
I did a lot my own research while reading, because although I know the author obviously took liberty with the characters and even some of the timing of events, I really wanted to know how deep the fiction went.
The characters felt so real to me, I loved them, cried with them and even missed them when I finished the book.
I think everyone should read this book, should know the story Comanche Indians.
Okay, so the things I liked about this book outweigh the things I didn't...I think.
I really enjoyed that this book was set in Texas, much of it where I'm from in the Panhandle.
Loved thinking about what this area looked like not even 2 centuries ago.
She would write scenarios that I was like, there is NO WAY that happend in Texas!
When was the last time there was a blizzard OR a prairie in the hill country??
I would reccommend this book to anyone from Texas, especially the Panhandle, hill country or around Nocona or with ties to the Commanche tribe.
It's the historical fiction retelling of the story of Cynthia Ann Parker, kidnapped at the age of nine by a Comanche war band who massacred her family’s settlement in Texas.
I appreciated the way she told both sides of the story and the way Cynthia Ann Parker (Naduah in Comanche) is portrayed.
In reality she never told anyone about her life among the Comanche but based on the stories from her son, Quanah Parker, I would like to think that the author's version was how it happened.I enjoyed this book very much but it is very difficult to read in places.
I read this book years ago, then couldn't find it.
I recently found a copy, but upon re-reading it I found that it depressed me to read the plight of the American Indian and the injustices done to them and their culture.
I feel that this book is a close to life depiction of what happened to their culture and the angst between them and white people.
If your are looking for a true to life story (this is a fictional depiction of a true life story) of Comanche Indians and the loss of their culture you must read this book.
I give this book 5 out of 5 stars.
Fantástico, interesante y muy bien escrito.Me ha gustado muchísimo y en algunos pasajes he sufrido bastante con la crudeza de la violencia. A pesar de ello me quedo con la maravillosa y triste historia de este pueblo.
WOW!!
One of the best Westerns I have read and probably my favorite book in 2018.
