https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/169572.In_Love_Trouble
Each story plunges you into a fully realized world of characters and circumstances, the kind of world that could propel an entire novel.
And Walker is so good at making these character breathe for us, so good at making their concerns and lives vital to the readers, that it's like a slap in the face when the story ends and a new story abruptly begins--on the very next page, with not even a blank page to give us a moment to digest and mourn what we lost.
Probably not--it seems more like proof that she is a five-star story writer.
For what it's worth I think In Love and Trouble is the best thing I read so far this year.
Maybe I should - that Southern Gothic link, but I think I was distracted by all the feminism and racial talk that surrounds Alice Walker's work.
If that's what interests you the most (feminism and racial politics) you'll have your fill, no worries, and probably more than you expected.
One or two I can count as among the saddest fiction I've ever read.
The language is proudly Southern, rough yet lyrical, and so beautiful as it blurs the line between prose and poetry.
I read these stories during a time when I still remember ed details of when I lived in Jackson, MS. I saw how black women were treates, no, not as badly as they had been in the past, but I inexcusable ways. I related Because I am a woman in a society that is beginning to understand women's value.
This is one of my favorites by Alice Walker.
The stories are rich, deep, and lyrical.
Poetic prose you might say.
Some in this collection are so sad, with no happy ending in sight.
They leave your heart ripped open, your mind desperate for a more consoling conclusion.
But isn't that life?
Sometimes things just don't end well.
My absolute favorite is The Diary of an African Nun. Walker masterfully explored the internal spiritual conflict that plagues daughters of Africa, even when they don't know it.
I also loved To Hell with Dying, for its sweetness, innocence, and message about love and loss.
This is an incredible collection of stories.
They reminded me of Flannery O'Connor, but told from a black woman's point of view.
The reader is immediately dropped into tense, sad stories of everyday people frequently having horrifying things happen to them.
The stories don't have the eccentricity and bizarreness that mark O'Connor's stories, but they have the same unexpected endings.
Some of the stories tear your heart out.
I'd recommend it to anyone who is interested in what I would guess is the typical experience of the black woman in the United States.
This is a beautiful collection of short stories. "The Welcome Table," is a story I return to again and again. I have used it in my classes and find the students respond to it quite well.
Alice Walker is a phenomenal writer, but this novel was extremely boring with lots of access "blahhs" that made a few of the stories hard to read.
All of the stories centered Black women, and the trials and tribulations can come alongside that.
It seemed like she had a hard time deciding whether she wanted to do a poetry book or a short story book.
3. In one of the stories, there is two characters who both go by the name 'daughter'.
In closing, if you are an Alice Walker fan, check out some of her other works.
I'm going to mark this read for lack of having another way to add the story here.)"Everyday Use" was interesting though not particularly moving to me.
There is a lot to pull apart inside it: the limited narration of the poorly-educated and poorly-equipped mother, and the thematic contrasts between her adult daughters.
The contrasts were less exciting.Her daughter who's stayed home is sheltered and shown to be as unintelligent and unambitious as the mother, but this seems to be a virtue in the author's view.

Obviously, Alice Walker possesses writing skills that exceeds those of most human beings.
This book exhibited all of those, and more.
To say that I've never read a better book would be unfair, I think.
However, a lot of the writing had me spellbound.
Some of the stories in this book transcended my, perhaps, common appreciation of literature.
On the other hand, some of these stories were like magic.
It's writing like that that makes me want to recommend this book to everyone.
If there are stories in there you don't care about, you can just read on.
The collection has authentic stories of black experiences, most of them inspired by her own life and the stories she has heard from her mother or in her community rolled with a little fiction and includes "Everyday Use", her most popular short story, along with so many other gems and I feel it's a must read for someone as enthusiastic about short stories and African American literature as me.
Even if you are not, you should still read it.And though 'Everyday Use' was great, I loved so many of the other ones.‘Really, Doesn’t Crime Pay?’talks about a black woman who is driven mad after lover steals her stories and publishes them under his name after breaking up with her.
I so dislike having this reaction to any book: not being able to discern if it’s a quality of literature over my head or if it’s just not good.
It’s Alice Walker, so it must be my shortcoming, right?I just didn’t feel the women in this collection of short stories, and I can’t help but feel that it’s because the author didn’t feel them herself.
There’s a feeling of contrivance in this book, yet also a frustrating disjointedness.
The stories feel incomplete.
Rare were the moments of either tenderness or revulsion.Alice Walker is a stirring writer.
But I didn’t feel anything like that from this collection.
My first book by Alice Walker, and it was definitely a good read.
Her writings are smooth, poetic, and intriguing.
making intense scenes spine-chilling, dreamy scenes even more dreamy, and overall, very very fascinating.In this book are 13 short stories of black women who each have lived different lives and have suffered different problems which changed their lives forever.
I can't spoil the story here because you have to read the book the feel what she wants you to feel.
This book made me think of those things.
I would love to read some more books by Alice Walker.
This is the first work I've read by Alice Walker.
It is a remarkable, poetic collection of stories.
You never know what you're going to get from one story to the next.
Traveling through different times, lives and perspectives, you're first brought into the book by two stories that challenge the standard literary narration.
The format of these first two stories is perhaps designed to make you feel before you think, to perhaps wipe clean your senses and even challenge your sense of self.
This is a beautiful, memorable work, well worth a read.
Well written, but mostly heartwrenching and devastating. Which, fair, obviously. But if there were any hope to be had I'd give it 5 stars.
I didn't have the time to read all the stories but this collection has one of my favorite short stories that I was able to track down again thanks to David W. "The Revenge of Hannah Kemhuff" tells the story of a woman wronged and now, near death, all she wants is revenge. It is one of those short stories where every word is perfect, and it will stay with you for a long time.
I really loved these short stories, written from the perspective of women of color of different ages and social status. My favorite story was of an older woman obsessed about her bookworm husband's fidelity.
Nice collection of short stories, some I liked more than others.
ebook version
Alice Walker is the author of ”The Color Purple” for which she won the National Book Award for fiction, as well as a Pulitzer Prize in 1983.
She has been an activist in the civil rights movement, as well as an outstanding writer.“In Love & Trouble”, a collection of short stories, is her first short story collection and was published in 1973, 10 years before she won the Pulitzer Prize for fiction.
“To Hell With Dying” is exquisite.My favorite story is “To Hell with Dying” which tells the story of Mr. Sweet and his relationship to a little girl and her siblings.

Ik had een rode draad verwacht doorheen de 13 verhalen maar die is er niet.
Sommige verhalen zijn op een eenvoudige manier geschreven en volgde ik direct mee vanaf de eerste zin.
Er zijn ook enkele verhalen die heel raar en onbegrijpbaar waren.
Sommige verhalen zijn leuk, anderen wat minder.
Meeste verhalen zijn ook heel zwartgallig.
Om de verhalen volledig te begrijpen, zou ik dit boek toch zeker een 2de keer moeten lezen.
Maar ik ga dat niet doen.
Een 2nd read is dit boek voor mij niet waard.
Bijgevolg zou ik dit boek eerder aanraden aan mensen die graag korte verhalen lezen.
As someone who has read a number of Alice Walker books, this would not be my go-to suggestion to recommend to someone looking to read something from the author. Start with some of her better known novels and then come to this well after. With saying that, these short stories are some of the first things published by Alice Walker in her career. What you get in these thirteen stories is a a storyteller trying to find her voice and a hint at what that voice will later become in her stellar body of work.
An interesting and varied read. Each short story was a tale in itself. The styles of the pieces were greatly varied. Some were more direct and understandable (to me) and others were more difficult for me to "get". Is that a function of my whiteness? For me the most poignant, meaningful, and disturbing was "The Welcome Table." It really spoke to me. Although this edition was published in 2011, the stories dated as far back as 1967. Wouldn't it be nice to think that things have changed for Black Women since then. That, however, would not be realistic thinking.
Many of these stories were disturbing, but were extremely thought provoking. I really liked this book had a hard time putting it down. It certainly inspires me to be a better person in relationships with others; there was so much cruelty and some of it was done thoughtlessly which certainly doesn't make it any better. I will definitely keep this book and reread it.
A great book, every story is a gem. The very short story, Flowers, stuns, and The Welcome Table grabs your heart and doesn't let go. All the stories tap into thoughts and bring up feelings that stay with you long after you finish reading them. A new addition to a very small collection of all-time favourites. Thank you for sharing your gift, Alice Walker.
An occasionally powerful writer of prose fiction with a woefully deficient moral compass.I see no reason why anyone should empathize with or pity the stupid, the savage, the ignorant or the primitive over those who exhibit self-control, education, civilization.
Although there was maybe 2 stories I couldn't quite get and will need to read again, the overall vibe of this collection of stories is enlightening and thoughtful. I will be re-reading this book this year as it makes me want to explore more into it's heart.
Alice Being Alice As normal, Alice Walker weaves tales that are engaging from beginning to end. She does not strictly adhere to the standard formatting of the short story. Often she takes poetic liberties and blends across genres.
This book is very entertaining. It speaks on women empowerment, infedelity, love, and renewing of one's happiness. It's an amazing book.
