https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/32571395-one-of-us-is-lying
I think this was a clever move by the publisher and author; if other readers pull the same underestimation as I did, they will be more than pleasantly surprised at what they get out of this book.
Again, I applaud the author for tackling some really tough issues and concerns in this book, and I don’t think she wrote anything wrong on her end.
I think it’s more of an issue I’ve seen present itself across a wide number of YA books recently.
I'd give this 4.5 stars.If  One of Us Is Lying  was a television series, I would binge-watch it wholeheartedly. It's been a while since I've gotten so into a book I've devoured the majority of it in one sitting when I haven't been on a plane. This hooked me completely, and I'm surprised how much I liked it.Five students have detention one afternoon. There's Cooper, the golden boy and star baseball player trying to decide between college and the major leagues; Bronwyn, the class valedictorian who
There's Cooper, the golden boy and star baseball player trying to decide between college and the major leagues; Bronwyn, the class valedictorian who plans to follow her family's legacy and go to Yale; Addy, one-half of the picture-perfect couple and a homecoming princess; Nate, the bad boy, on probation for dealing drugs (and still selling them not so secretly); and Simon, the despised (and kind-of feared) creator of About That, Bayview High's gossip blog.
It's not long before investigators discover that the next day, Simon was planning to publish items about Cooper, Bronwyn, Addy, and Nate—items which could potentially destroy all of their lives.
I need $$ not feelings *squashes my emotions with my bare hands* So as I was saying, this book was just so good, so cinematically, tangibly exciting, so FULFILLING TO THE CORE and I’m willing to bet that if someone threw it off a cliff, I'd probably dive after it tbh!!It’s a universal truth that I am actually and unambiguously and inappropriately obsessively 100% full scale high key addicted to reading crime books and watching crime documentaries and having in-depth knowledge of incriminating shit.
4 to 4.5 StarsEvery time I walk into the living room my wife is watching Pretty Little Liars or Revenge or Riverdale or Veronica Mars or .
Sometimes I watch a bit with her.
While not the most complex mystery I have read, it is quite a bit of fun.
I stand by my vote – this is a pretty good selection for Young Adult Fiction.
That is, unless you don’t like gossipy cat fights and brooding bad boys in love with nerdy girls .
hey, if you don’t like those things, why are you even reading the review of a Young Adult book!?!?
It's not that his storyline has no value, I just think that sexuality shouldn't be used as a plot twist.Further harm is done when part of the plot includes Cooper being publicly outed against his will.
When I hear many LGBTQIA+ reviewers I follow saying sexuality shouldn't be written as a plot twist and that storylines involving being outed can be triggering, these are the best guidelines I can go by with my reviews since I am not personally affected by it.
I'm just warning those who MAY be harmed by it that this is present.Mental IllnessThere are a couple of characters in the book that are said to be depressed and one of them was Simon, the boy who died.
You guys, I thought this book was brilliant!
- murder mystery- high school drama- secrets, both big and small- suspicion I love a murder mystery anyway, but this one was made better as I cared about the 4 kids who were suspects.
All 4 end up in detention with Simon Kelleher, the guy who runs a gossip app that ruins reputations with its secrets.
Because by the end of detention Simon is dead, but who did it?
By the end of the book she really became her own person and I LOVED THAT.
More addicting than lays potato chips! Well, I can't remember the last time I've eaten lays potato chips. Do they still make them? My 5 stars are for pure page-turning enjoyment. I LOVED "The Breakfast Club" ---(my kids watched it a half dozen times too) ---and this was The Breakfast Club on steroids! Moral of the story: All kids lie! haha!
I'm going to go ahead and leave this at a 4 star. I wasn't sure between 3 and 4 because it's one of those books that was driving me crazier than I am. I couldn't put the book down and wanted to smack everyone in the book! Major players:Simon BroneynNate CooperAddyThey all go to detention and one dies. Why? There are lies and evilness all around! Stupidity and sadness.
3.75 A mystery/murder breakfast club!
I’m always so hesitant with thrillers bc they’re always a hit or miss for me buT DAMN THIS WAS SO GOOD Things that this Book will Bless your Life with - Friendship- A precious boy who deserves the world- Writing so addictive you’re willing to let your tea go cold for it- CHARACTER DEVELOPMENT- A SHIP THAT WILL SMACK YOU IN THE FEELS OH MY GOD IM STILL NOT OVER IT- A mystery that will have you punching pillows to solve- 4 kids with different personalities, backgrounds that will FOR SURE have you
-	Friendship-	A precious boy who deserves the world-	Writing so addictive you’re willing to let your tea go cold for it-	CHARACTER DEVELOPMENT-	A SHIP THAT WILL SMACK YOU IN THE FEELS OH MY GOD IM STILL NOT OVER IT-	A mystery that will have you punching pillows to solve-	4 kids with different personalities, backgrounds that will FOR SURE have you relating to-	DIVERSITTTTTYYYYYY- late night phone calls -	A kicka*s grandma-	Its so bloody binge-able you guys, like I finished it in a day and I wasn’t even intending to binge it-	It just happened and I was like damn can I get some more please-	Also I SOOOOOOOOOOO guessed itHonestly, there’s really not much to complain about with this book.
It was good!
Tbh, it's so hard to find a thriller that literally has you on the edge of your seat, biting your nails, screaming at and suspecting everyone, saying "WHAT THE FUCK" every 3 pages, wanting to flip to the last page to find out who dunnit because you're so fucking full of it and can't stand the mystery and suspense.
thrilling???Well, I can 99% gaurentee your search has come to the end because let me present to you this book which lives up to the damn hype and everything you can possibly want in a thriller.
Can we talk about how precious Cooper is?
As a huge fan of "The Breakfast Club", I loved the concept of five characters with different personalities meeting in detention from the get go, and I'm incredibly happy to report that my high expectations were even exceeded!
There are also kept on a small scale, so the attention never drifts away from the main plot.All of the characters go through some personal growth throughout the book.
I thought I had discovered every possible solution, but I was still surprised at the end!There is only one small thing I have to complain about: I would have liked a little bit more insight into Simon's life.
loooved the characterization, the story was entertaining and the ending was sweet-ishrtc---BR WITH THESE PRECIOUS JEWELS:  Sweets  &  Cute Amy &  Dotty  & Chai latte & Prag
I just totally felt like a teenager again while reading this, in a good way, and that was fun.
I also saw a bunch of reviews about the portrayal about sexuality and mental illness, and I'm not trying to disqualify anyone else's opinions or feelings but personally I didn't find it consistent with my own reading of the book.
The picture of mental illness it paints isnt that nuanced but this book reads like pretty little liars or something and I wasn't really expecting it to have some conversation inducing portrayals of those things.
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/ “Some people are too toxic to live. They just are.” Welcome to detention, where a princess, a jock, a brain, a criminal and . . . a gossip???? Wait, that’s not historically accurate . . . . . Have all earned a spot for violating one of the most serious rules of high school: NO PHONES IN CLASS. They’ve done the crime, now they have to do the time as well as write a 500 word essay about how technology is ruining American high schools. I
First, kudos to whoever was in charge for finally getting a dang blurb right.
This absolutely was “The Breakfast Club Meets Pretty Little Liars.” Per usual, I was not the target audience for this selection, but hey the sun shines on an old dog’s butt every once in a while because I thought it was .
Obviously this isn't a story that’s going to change anyone’s lives, but if you have a teen (or in my case a 30 year old male attorney boss) who enjoys all the guilty pleasures Pretty Little Liars has to offer on the ABC Family Channel, this will probably be a winner.ARC provided by NetGalley in exchange for an honest review.
The story itself is narrated by the four main characters—Bronwyn, Addy, Nate and Cooper—, thus keeping things moving at a fast pace.
That’s the problem: this book doesn’t make you feel anything.
And the way I see it, it’s a requirement for mysteries/thrillers to make you feel something.
Otherwise it’s just a book like any other.
If this is one of the first YA mystery novels that you read, I guess there’s a chance you’ll enjoy it more than I did.
But that’s because I’ve read many of them.Here are some recommendations:- Dangerous Girls- Dreamland Burning- All the Rage- City of Saints & ThievesThose are books that actually make you feel something.
Spoiler-free review!  I feel like one of maybe four people in the world who just... really did not enjoy this book? I've been putting off this review for weeks because I just don't know where to start. I have so many friends who raved about this book to me, so I was so disappointed by it. These are only my opinions, and I would never dream of disrespecting anyone who disagrees with my review, so please show the same courtesy and don't hate me for what I'm about to say. ❤→ what i liked ←This is
❤→ what i liked ←This is a very quick read; if I had enjoyed it, I'm sure I would've knocked it out in one sitting.
Whenever it was any other character's POV, I definitely found myself rushing to get back to his sections.→ what i didn't like ←This book is so problematic and most of it is NEVER challenged.
We spend a tremendous portion of the book focusing on the girl's one-night-stand, while the text literally does not ONCE actually name the boy for what he is: a cheater.
This book should be called All of Us Are Liars.One of Us Is Lying was fasted paced, fun, and very addictive.
Once I picked this book up I could not put it down.
It also served as a pallet cleanser after The Handmaid's Tale.
I needed something fun and lighter in tone(yes I know its about the murder of a teenager).
At about 100 pages in I developed a theory about who was behind the crime and it turns out I was right.
One of Us Is Lying is Karen McManus' debut novel and I can't wait to read more of her work in the future.
But in saying that, the way the plot was constructed still left me surprised by the end of the book.So sneaky...I will mention that this story heavily focuses around harassment, mental abuse and homophobia.So if you're quite sensitive around these topics, just be mindful.
McManus did a fantastic job with this book.The style of writing, the plot with all the twist and turns that left me guessing in most parts, was just SO GOOD MAN!Kudos to you, Karen!
detective jessica, human lie detector, reporting for duty!i got to the bottom of this and figured it out pretty easily early on, but that didnt detract from the story in the slightest.
i also thought this was especially impressive for a debut - stories like this are pretty common, so it quite ambitious to try to make it your own, but i thought mcmanus nailed this.
it had great pacing, solid writing, an engaging plot, and interesting characters.
and i also now have a new book boyfriend in the form of nate, so thats always a bonus!
i cant wait to see what kind of books mcmanus writes next!
I loooooved and devoured this book!Once I started this book it was very hard to put down. Five high school students end up in detention one day, one of them does not make it out alive and we are left with the questions about what happened, who did it and why. The plot is told from the different points of views of each of the four students that survived detention and the journey and unraveling of this mystery was awesome. It was fun, cute, suspenseful and overall great!
5 Students walk into detention. A few minutes later 1 of them is dead.    Who killed Simon?  I've been wanting to read    One of Us is Lying  for awhile now. I am a hug fan of tv shows like Riverdale and Pretty Little Liars and teen movies like Breakfast Club, Sixteen Candles, Mean Girls, Can't Buy Me Love, Scream, etc. I could go on & on. It's pretty bad - I can't flip through the channels and see any of those on without watching. Therefore, it's no surprise that this book seemed like a pe
I am a hug fan of tv shows like Riverdale and Pretty Little Liars and teen movies like Breakfast Club, Sixteen Candles, Mean Girls, Can't Buy Me Love, Scream, etc.
Addy - who I found spineless and whiny in the beginning completely won me over by the end.
That made reading the book even better than I initially expected.
Yes, but that's what makes it fun & a bit nostalgic.
I felt like these characters showed growth from beginning to end which you don't often get to see in YA mysteries.
It held my interest from beginning to end.
Simon, notorious due to his gossip-style blog that revealed all the dark and dirty secrets his fellow students never thought would see the light of day, had made many enemies.
Each dirty secret that was uncovered made each character less of a walking stereotype and more of a flawed, and therefore real, individual.
How wrong could I be?The actual plot was a thrilling and interesting one, but it was the characters who circled it that really compelled me to keep reading.
With their flaws and their individual insights they continued to interest me, and made this a very real and very suspenseful read.
"Everybody's got secrets," he says. "Right?" This book was a pleasant surprise! It was refreshing and a change from the usual young-adult contemporary. Bronwyn, Nate, Cooper, and Addy are suspects for murdering the school's gossiper, Simon. When the 5 of them were in detention, the last thing they expect is for Simon to drop dead... Unless one of them planned the whole thing. The story is told from their POVs. The nerd, the bad boy, the jock, and the princess are the most common high school ste
Bronwyn, Nate, Cooper, and Addy are suspects for murdering the school's gossiper, Simon.
Bronwyn has the highest grades, Nate was (is?) a drug dealer, Cooper is the best baseball player in school, and Addy is used to being popular, true, but these are more than their just titles.
Bronwyn and Nate's chapter were my favorites, although I have to admit how much Addy grew on me.
Yet, you can't help but feel skeptical, I shouldn't like this character, he looks innocent but what if ?One of the things I liked is how this book relies on social media, something many books set in our days ignore.
Four come out alive.Simon: Is basically gossip girl without the secret identityBroneyn: Nerdy girl with a rich familyNate: Has a reputation and a criminal recordCooper: The baseball player with more scholarships to countAddy: Has the perfect boyfriend and life ahead of herLet me try that again:Simon: Who is tired of never being accepted by the popular crowdBroneyn: Who’s only goal is to get into Yale and will do anything to get thereNate: Who always takes the hit of anything because of his pastCooper: Who has a bar to make but a secret that could limit his reachAddy: Who doesn’t have a personality without her boyfriendI absolutely loved this.This was written amazingly.
But first, I gotta say Karen McManus’ One of Us Is Lying legit gave me so many Pretty Little Liars feels it’s ridiculous.
In One of Us Is Lying, each of our four main characters is hiding a secret they fear will shatter their meticulously constructed personas.
They’re joined in detention by Simon, creator of the school’s infamous gossip app.
All four students wanted Simon gone.
To recap: basically, we’re looking at a mashup of PLL and Gossip Girl with a dash of The Breakfast Club.
Really, it’s the characters that distinguish One of Us Is Lying from its contemporaries.
Plot and character are equally developed and prized.
This book is a symphony of high school cliches, and I'm almost embarrassed at how much I enjoyed it.
They come together in a murder mystery when Simon, the school gossip who ruins his classmates lives by airing their dirty laundry on his app, is murdered during detention.
The four other students in detention with him become suspects in his murder, especially when it comes out that they were all next on Simon's hit list.There's nothing surprising or inventive about this story, and the twists and turns aren't all that difficult to see coming down the path.
I didn't take it seriously at all as a murder mystery, which is one of the reasons I enjoyed it so much.
5 suspicious Stars 🌟🌟🌟🌟🌟Please ignore all comparisons of this book to The Breakfast Club....
and go into this book with an open mind....The only similarity to this book and that fabulous 80s movie is these five very stereotyped teenagers spend some time in detention together...
this is where the similarities end....
I really enjoyed this book....
and I really wanted them all to be innocent....
I really don’t want to say too much...
but I didn’t see the end coming until quite late in the book....
any age this is a fabulous book filled with wonderful characters and twists and turns.....
I love the stories of the individuals and the pace the secrets are being revealed.
I like how she encourages Addy to move on.This book is told in the first person point of view, starting out with 5 students meeting each other at the high school’s detention room.
All the students in the school either feared or hated Simon because he exposes their secrets on About That.
This concludes that all 4 students has motive to hurt Simon.This book is very well written and easy to read.
I love the humor in this book as well as the fast paced.
