https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/22822858-a-little-life
All this is because the author knows absolutely nothing about gay men other than the most superficial stereotypes and doesn’t have the imagination to venture deeper than that.
She can’t even imagine that a man (Willem) doesn’t need a woman to quench his sexual needs—he has a solution readily at hand.Some people believe this is a novel about friendship.
Were they his friends, they would never have let things progress the way they did.Some people believe that a strength of this book is that the author's presence is not felt.
But meanwhile the author is carefully and meticulously adhering to the through line, everyone will suffer, every character, the reader.
The power of friendshipIf this book had a theme song it might be the Beatles’ “With A Little Help From My Friends.” Four roommates at an Eastern college move to the Big Apple and become huge successes: J.B. becomes a hip downtown artist; the well-off Malcolm is a well-known architect; Willem goes from waiter to movie star practically overnight; Jude is a lawyer, first at the D.A.’s office and then at a prestigious corporate firm, where he works himself up and becomes a partner.Over the decades, their friendship endures, through spats, early career struggles, J.B.’s drug addiction and, most of all, dealing with the effects of Jude’s unspeakably abusive past on his current life, although Jude is terrified to tell anyone about that abuse.
There's no doubt that this book is beautifully-written and contains some of the most raw and honest prose I've ever had the pleasure or misfortune of reading, but it's a long very long character study - over 700 pages of misery, substance abuse, self-harm, sexual and psychological abuse (and its aftermath), with very little of that "light" promised in the blurb.There's a section of this book called "The Happy Years" and never has a title been more misleading, if you ask me.
It may sound presumptuous to say in January that I've read the best book I've read all year, but reading is a lot like love.
Second, it refers to the act of reading it, spending time in this book is really like living a version of life.There is a third meaning, one that you don't discover until around halfway through the book when the title's words are used in a context that is like a punch to the gut.
And that is a lot of what the experience of reading this book is like.
It's a book that kept me reading long into the night, made me turn each page with vigor and curiosity, gave me chills and shivers over the joys and sorrows of each character, and ultimately left me feeling a bit older and tortured and yet at peace with the deeply complicated nature of humanity.
But it has its own beauty that comes from its ability to convey these feelings, making you feel every pain or happiness that Malcolm and JB and Willem and Jude feel.
As a twenty-year-old, I felt both so young and so old upon finishing this novel, as if its sheer humanity aged my soul while making me appreciate all the years I still have left.A Little Life follows four friends after they graduate from a small, prestigious Massachusetts college: Willem, a kind and talented actor; JB, a sharp and sometimes-caustic artist, Malcolm, an aspiring architect at a well-known firm; and Jude, a mysterious and intelligent litigator.
She writes about some of the most wretched, abominable acts of cruelty I have ever read without sentimentalizing any of the abuse or making any of the characters' feelings mawkish.Yanagihara offers us temporary respite from the pain within Jude's past by showing us the power of friendship.
Brilliant, devastating, heartbreaking. Fucking hatefully sad at times. There are places that are overwrought and overwritten but this is an amazing, engrossing novel. Just wow.
Brace yourself for the most melodramatic, pretentious, dull, dumb, overwritten, repetitive, laughable, cringe-inducing, self-indulgent, unbelievable, stereotypical, voyeuristic, contrived piece of fiction.
After pushing through and trying to motivate myself to finish this book just to see if there's more to it or some kind of message there...
I'm putting this book down for good.
Normally, I would have kept going just to find out what happens to the characters, but honestly I care so little about any of them, they can all die or live, they just remain empty caricatures to me and I have better things to read.At least it was so over the top it gave me a good laugh every now and then.
Jesus Christ. I cried for an HOUR last night. This freaking book.
You get a first read only once. I don't know what to say. It's the book of my life. Not that it mirrors my life, but that it's the literary love of my life. I know I get hyperbolic about this kind of stuff, but it is what it is. The most cathartic reading experience I've ever had. I'm shaking and crying writing this. How to move on after this one - hard to imagine I will.
Note: I received an ebook copy of this book from the publisher for review consideration.Around page 150 of Hanya Yanagihara’s second novel, A Little Life, which follows four friends from their college years into their fifties, I wrote the following in my notes:I am more excited about Hanya Yanagihara and her work and her career than I have been about any author in a really long time.Around page 200 I wrote this:Is Jude’s suffering perhaps a tad overwrought?
I decided to spend some of my weekend, which turned out to be all day today, catching up on some reading.
I started A Little Life sometime in January, but had to put it down a few times due to time restrictions on other books.
I'll start by saying that I can't recollect the last time I felt so connected to characters in a story.
In fact, the next day I still felt depressed.
Don't get me wrong, I loved this book, but it's going to take me a few days to get over it and I'll never forget it.
Other people have criticized more articulately the implications of the way Yanagihara treats her gay characters, who exist seemingly only to suffer (while paradoxically others have praised it as the great gay novel).
Hell no.The real deal breaker for me was when I paused midway through the novel to read an interview where Yanagihara stated her criticism of psychiatry as a way to treat mental illness.
The implication that some people are too broken to help and we should just let them die is so, so harmful, and in no way does it help to eradicate the stigma against mental illness in this country.
All I longed for while reading this book - and talking myself into picking it up and finishing it - was for the main character to find hope.
Spoiler: He never found it.Now, we all know and love that kind of book, those epic and dramatic novels we read, cause they'll sweep us away and make us weep, make our heart ache.
And this shattered my awe for and good opinion of this novel.I’m also sick and tired of (straight and/or female) authors exploiting gay stories and lives.
I’m even more tired of (straight and/or female) authors killing off gay characters for tragedy.
Jude doesn't come out of his childhood whole and I feel a little broken by having read about his life.
The romance in this book is a beautiful one, but not in the traditional sense that a reader might expect or want for the characters involved.We all often say that we loved this character or that character in one of the many books that we read, I know I say it often, but the character of Jude St. Francis is something special.
4.5 starsEDIT: Nevermind, 5 stars.
The flashback sections read like a gothic horror story and it's no overstatement to say that I had to put the book down on numerous occasions, overcome by the sheer brutality of the text.So this is one element of the book: how does someone like Jude, who has experienced such an upbringing, integrate themself into the wider world?
There are some wonderful sections on this: The only trick of friendship, I think, is to find people better than you are – not smarter, not cooler, but kinder and more generous, and more forgiving – and then appreciate them for what they can teach you, and try to listen to them when they tell you something about yourself, no matter how bad – or good - it might be, and then to trust them, which is the hardest of all.
This novel was so rich in raw, uninhibited emotion, in the true unveiling of life’s effervescence, horrors and humanity, that I didn’t feel that I was trudging through a thick read—though, believe me, it’s thick!—I felt that I was on a 40-year Hajj with these characters, a journey that, like real life, takes you over lofty and decadent highs then drags you through trough-like lows.
It was the lows in A Little Life that made me literally cringe and turn away, re-read at times and stop reading at others just long enough to question what really is humanity?The theme of lifelong friendship is obviously central to the novel, and I loved that the four focal characters were all male.
I know this is only March but books like this don't come along very often .I was asked where that place was that this book took me so I am adding this .
(view spoiler)[We probably all know what it's like to suffer - maybe physically , or at the loss of loved ones or a myriad of other things that could affect our lives .
But the main character who is left at birth suffers unspeakable abuses - physical, sexual and deeply emotional abuses at the hands of some depraved individuals from the time he is a young boy to his teenage years .
This is that place that this book took me.
Such an incredibly hard book to read, and yet a beautiful book too, on the true meaning of friendship.
Why do we hang on to a place, a state of mind, that causes us nothing but pain?
The writing is exemplary, the abuse scenes can be graphic, but offset by friendships that are amazing, love that is wonderful.
I have read so many articles where critics and readers both decry, "Where are the published books that will later be considered a classic?" I think this one will, one of the best, most sincere, if painful books, I have read in a long time.
This book is about their lives and as you read it, you feel like you’re experiencing your own little life.It’s been nearly a week since I finished this book and I still feel so close to it and to the characters.
It asks, “What is a life and what makes it worth living?”Throughout the novel, characters are stretched past the limits of what they believe they can endure, and I felt a bit like that as I was reading.
(aka the one who deserves the whole wide world and more):We get to know Jude slowly but surely, and the one thing I remember most was how I truly enjoyed the specificity and depth of his character.
You’re the friend of Malcolm Irvine, of Jean-Baptiste Marion, of Richard Goldfarb, of Andy Contractor, of Lucien Voigt, of Citizen van Straaten, of Rhodes Arrowsmith, of Elijah Kozma, of Phaedra de los Santos, of the Henry Youngs.“You’re a New Yorker.
Λοιπόν, δεν θέλει πολλή φαντασία για να καταλάβεις το τρομερό μυστικό του Τζουντ, και δεν σας κάνω και κανένα μεγάλο spoiler εδώ : μεγάλωσε σε μοναστήρι, έζησε μια άσχημη παιδική ηλικία για την οποία δεν θέλει να πει τίποτα, δεν έχει σεξουαλική ζωή, do the math.
Πόσο πιθανό είναι αυτό ; Επίσης σε όλη του την ενήλικη ζωή ο Τζουντ συναναστρέφεται κατά 80% με gay άτομα, αυτό όμως δεν το πολυσχολιάζω γιατί θα έπρεπε αντιστρόφως να σχολιάσω ένα οποιοδήποτε μυθιστόρημα που έχει μόνο straight χαρακτήρες (πάντως στατιστικά απίθανο ακόμη και στην cool New York των γραμμάτων και των τεχνών να είναι όλοι σχεδόν gay).
Just as in real life...
Friendships build more friends...
We continue to meet real people...
always with a strong focus of these 4 friends.
(The Core Group).
Two other outstanding characters outside the 'core' are Harold, and Andy.
How do these friends help each other?
What do they each bring to the group?
Why are they destined for friendship?
Withholding the details from your friends, considered first a sort of mystery, and then a kind of stinginess, one that it was understood would preclude true friendship".
After finishing this book I'm a little dead inside.
Before reading A Little Life somebody described it to me as "emotionally gut-wrenching" and being the coward that I am I avoided reading it until this month, when our book club selected it for discussion.
The story follows the lives of four men starting from their college years and continuing for decades throughout their lives.
The story is both captivating and almost unbearable to read.
It is a book I will never forget, profoundly sad...
and yet I cared for these characters very much and could not stop reading it.
He deals with his trauma by injuring himself, which is the one realistic aspect of this book, where totally straight men happily turn gay to care for their best friend (Jude) , a doctor cuts vacations and surgeries short to care for his beloved favorite patient (Jude), a rich couple adopts a thirty-year-old man (Hey!
Jude), a famous artist builds an entire career painting pictures of -- well, guess who.And I really got the sense that the author was getting off on her endless and loving descriptions of Jude's cutting and burning and suicide attempts.
I'll cut to the chase on this one fairly quickly: Hanya Yanagihara's  A Little Life  is nothing short of an utter masterpiece. This book is one of the most dazzlingly brilliant, emotionally moving books I've ever read, and it will be a long time before I can get these characters and their story out of my head. And truth be told, as painful as this book was in places, I don't know if I want to be rid of these characters anytime soon."It is always easier to believe what you already think than to t
And truth be told, as painful as this book was in places, I don't know if I want to be rid of these characters anytime soon."It is always easier to believe what you already think than to try to change your mind."
This is such a powerful book, and as issues were confronted, joyous moments celebrated, and troubling moments lamented over and deeply felt, not knowing what to expect made the impact of the story even more resonant for me.Yanagihara is a writer of exquisite beauty and she has created fascinating characters; none more so than Jude and Willem.
Jude is truly unlike any character I think I've ever come across (and I read a ton of books).
Everything was supremely unbelievable, especially the fact that Jude's life could be so perfect and his past and demons could be so traumatic.
Did he ever have any friends who said, "you know what, Jude, I love you, but I'm not fucking flying to Paris for your birthday"?
I hated the lack of female characters, especially the fact that he had an adoptive mother who played no significant role.
I hated that every single character's life revolved around Jude.
I want to ad-block it from my life.
This book is Pulitzer material and sure to become a modern classic."A Little Life" is about 4 men who meet at a college in Massachusetts (Jude, Willem, Malcolm and JB) and they stay friends long after college is over.
Without giving away too much, it is truly about the character, Jude St. Francis, and what his life was like before he met these 3 friends, and how that life before affects everything and everyone around him.
I will say that I was sucked into this book so much so that I felt like I was actually there with these characters.
" If I was writing this review as some sort of literary quasi-critic, I might give this book 4 stars because it is well written with fully developed characters, and it thoroughly explores the devastating, lifelong impact of child abuse on the abused (and those in her/his life) in a way that reveals the dreadful truth, which is, I think, a primary purpose of great novels.
