https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/43935.Darker_Than_Amber
MacDonald the writer simply understood the psychological underpinnings of the situation he’d created, and had his character do likewise; and I might add, at a personal cost to himself, reflected by this comment late in the narrative:“Vidge had soured me a little, and Vangie had dropped off the bridge and accelerated the process, and then I had really put the lid on it by trapping that dumb empty punchboard into a life sentence.”McGee's rescuing of Vangie from the water after someone has tried to kill her has no fairy-tale ending whatsoever, because Vangie, as McGee eventually discovers, is a hooker into something very nasty; so nasty that she obviously expected to come to a bad end one day:“All her symptoms of near-death had been physical, but emotionally she seemed to have an acceptance of it so placid as to be a little eerie.
Published in 1966, MacDonald’s early depiction of Travis McGee, as Mr. Penis-to-the-Rescue Problem-Solver would give the average woman fuel to start throat punching.
Sure, the woman is a prostitute, who’s involved with a ring of criminals who bilk, then kill, men for their money, but McGee is a pro at this askew Sir Galahad stuff and he helps her out.Because McGee couldn’t/wouldn’t/shouldn’t do the Dr. Love bit, he channels his blue balls angst and tracks down the murder ring in order to bring them to justice.
(view spoiler)[The killing of Ms. Amber Eyes, by her pals in the Lesser Masters of Evil, is the impetus here, hence the dead hooker gif.
Oh, and I should also state that there are likely to be spoilers.In Darker Than Amber, Travis McGee and his whip smart buddy Meyer are fishing under a bridge in the middle of the night when somebody drops a perfectly good whore over the bridge (people are so wasteful--she had lots of good tricks left in her), chained to a cement block.
Despite his admission that he's done his fair share of sleeping around, McGee seems to think that too much sex can ruin a good woman.
NOT a book club edition. This is the first Travis McGee novel printed in hardcover in the US. The book's printing was preceded by the hardcover edition published by Robert Hale (UK) in 1968.John Dann MacDonald (July 24, 1916 - December 28, 1986)The seventh in the series. McGee and close friend Meyer are fishing under a bridge when a young woman is thrown from it. Basis for the 1970 film of the same name. I binge read the series.
However, Travis defends himself pretty well with his own clear words (and those of Meyer aka JDM) throughout the 21 book series, so it baffles me that people would say things such as “he’s a misogynist” or "he treats women like sex objects" or "all he wants is to get laid." In my opinion, all of these comments are inaccurate and just plain wrong.
He's been past that.Meyer says to Travis You like women as people.
I have yet to read another character who I feel as drawn to as Travis McGee. Maybe because I read him so many years ago?
We were about to give up and call it a night when somebody dropped the girl off the bridge.You don’t get a much better opening line to a crime novel than that.Travis McGee, the Florida boat bum and ‘salvage consultant’ who specializes in recovering money or items conned from people is just trying to do a little fishing under a bridge with his best friend Meyer when someone drops a girl wired to a cement block into the water in front of them.
Other than that, it’s pretty typical of the series with the brooding McGee trying to outwit a bunch of lowlifes and cooking up a pretty elaborate scam to do it.
This objectification and mild hostility, however, sometimes does distract from his clear prose, his fantastic dialogue, and intriguing plot.This book starts with a woman thrown off a bridge and rescued by McGee and Meyer, his economist friend and drinking buddy.
The rescue of a drowning damsel charts the direction of this book as McGee and Meyer engage their unique skill sets to revenge, salvage, and make the world safe again for all the bachelors of Florida.
Sometimes the world needs to be set straight by an angry, yet romantic bachelor on a boat fighting for nobel causes in between stints of drinking on his boat.
MacDonald.
As they were sitting in their skiff below a bridge, a body was suddenly hurled off the bridge into the water.
Unfortunately, the men who were fleeced disappeared and never got to come back from the cruise.
McGee and Meyer learn that over the past several years about fourteen (or so) men had been taken and later tossed overboard.
The rescued girl, Vangie, fills them in on how it all worked, and charged up McGee enough that he goes out for revenge.
It doesn’t hurt that the men of the group manage to get Vangie on a second try.
This is typical MacDonald in style and content.
Seven books into the series I find myself fairly bored.
Maybe I've read them too fast.
The writing is great, but the mysteries are too complicated and I don't care about house boats.
Twenty books!
It does, however, shock and annoy me that McGee has been called misogynistic .
Whoever said that was obviously someone who didn't read the books and doesn't understand what the word misogynistic means (and then other people heard it and thought it was true because, you know, it was said).
Travis McGee is very progressive for the 1960s.
I don't think he's even sexist, let alone misogynistic.
The best of the seven so far:1) The plot is brilliant.2) The writing beautiful and creative: Meyer (a fellow boat owner) says to McGee, "Believe me, boychick, the broad was colossal." And McGee's friend isn't talking about what might first come to mind.3) "Boychick?" Let's talk about this term: In #6, Trav turns down a woman and takes care of business on his own: "I went below [deck], slapped a wrench on a nut..." Here, in #7, when he again turns down a woman, she responds with, "You gay or something?' and one has to wonder what "something" might be to her, to Trav, or to Macdonald.
MacDonald’s Travis McGee series finds our rough-around-the edges “salvage collector” and his best friend Meyer fishing for snook late at night beneath a bridge in the Florida Keys.
This novel marks a new phase of the Travis McGee series in that it elevates the character of Meyer from an occasional contributor to a full on side-kick.
Meyer is the perfect foil for Travis, managing to round out McGee’s rough edges a little bit, keep him aimed correctly, and perhaps be a sort of Jiminy Cricket conscience for him.
Quite simply, he elevates Travis’ game and he will remain an important co-character for the remaining 14 books in the series.
I got sick and wanted some comfort reading.
MacDonald's hero, Travis McGee and his economist buddy, Meyer, are fishing under a Florida bridge when a woman drops in.
McGee dives in and she reaches for him, indicating she is alive and awake.
McGee snaps into action, freeing her from the block and bringing her up to oxygen.
The action speeds up from there but saying more would ruin it for you.The book moves fast with plenty of action, descriptions of Florida's seamy side and the Homo sapiens-type animals who dwell therein.
Its a good, fast read whether you are sick or well.
I am always arguing with people who label McGee as a womanizer, or even a mysogynist. Meyer describes it best in this one :  "You like women as people. You do not think of them as objects placed here by a benign providence for your use and pleasure, so in that sense you are not a womanizer. But you cherish the meaningful romantic charade."
Been reading a bunch of MacDonald this past year since I bought a big lot (23 books) off eBay. He's quickly made it into my top five favorite authors.
Not my favorite Travis McGee, but this puppy has my favorite opening chapter by John D. MacDonald. I've read this two or three times, I think. At least twice.Copyright 1966. Growing up, I found Travis McGee novels harder to read than Matt Helm novels (by Donald Hamilton). But Travis holds up better now that we're into the new millennium; and MacDonald maintained a high quality of writing all the way to the end of the series (something Hamilton did not do).Travis is not your average literary hero. MacDonald went way out into left field to dream him up. Thanks, John.@hg47
I really liked this volume of the McGee series, in the last two books, McGee helps someone in trouble along with one of his friends. This show was another side of McGee, how he is when not having to take on his alter egos when trying to reclaim this book's victim.
This is my favorite yet re-reading the Travis McGee novels. Meyer is not only present, but an active participant. Travis comes up with a complex, clever and memorable plan.
I'm on my way back from my youth re-reading JDM's Travis McGee series. I was rather disappointed with Darker Than Amber (Travis McGee #7) but I'll keep on reading these as long as I can find them at reasonable prices or in my library.
(Surely the witty economist Meyer is a stand-in for MacDonald himself, who took a degree from Harvard Business School, and must have decided that his hero was having too much fun not to join him.) The criminal enterprise here is a little dated, as are (as always) some of McGee's musings on sex and race (dated but still interesting--is it possible to be a feminist chauvinist?), but this one is still a ripping yarn, and it has what must be one of the best opening chapters in pulp fiction.
Se čtením jsem začal fakt hodně brzo, což mělo za následek, že jsem se ke spoustě autorů dostal moc brzo.
Hlavní hrdina je sice rytíř bez bázně a hany, ale zároveň má odpor k závazkům a s tím vyplývající depky z marnosti života.
I o světě kolem tu autor skrz svého hrdinu neuvažuje jen v rovině cynické hlášky, ale fakt se snaží o něm přemýšlet a k něčemu dojít.
Ani dialogy tu nejsou postavené na hláškách nebo na šoku, ale jsou civilní, přesvědčivé a budují věrohodné postavy.
Pokud bych něco považoval spíš za nevýhodu je to, že to často není příliš detektivka.
Ale ono o to fakt ani moc nejde.
This was my first John D. MacDonald, and I loved it! Hard-boiled and noir to the highest level, but also with some fun intellectual diversions. The characterisation was great and definitely has me hankering for more. Can't believe it's taken me so long to discover John D. MacDonald!
McGee and Meyer rescue a girl dropped from a bridge and soon find themselves embroiled in a quest to trap a band of murderous schemers with whom she was involved. While it's not my favorite McGee, it's an interesting and solid thriller with some strong moments and interesting tricks and twists perpetrated by McGee to get the bad guys.
McGee, if you are unfamiliar with the series, lives on a 52-foot houseboat, “The Busted Flush.” He works when he needs money or when someone or something drops in his lap.
This story is about the woman who drops into his lap literally while he was fishing under a bridge with his buddy, Meyer.
This is a job for the cops, or maybe for Magnum, P.I.DARKER THAN AMBER includes a brief nod to the civil rights movement, as well as an increasing specificity to the McGee habits (e.g., an occasional pipe instead of cigarettes, Plymouth gin as cocktail of choice, more fishing and less hard-partying).
Trav says that “having to use a gun is the end product of stupid procedure” (p83) and he sticks to that code even when he shoots somebody d-e-a-d.Maybe because it was the most conventional of the first seven McGee adventures, DARKER THAN AMBER had a movie version (1970) that starred Rod Taylor as McGee and Theodore Bikel as Meyer.
Just what I was looking for!!!! Great little crime novel with characters, twists and a satisfying ending! I will be reading more John D. MacDonald!
He and his sidekick Meyer are fishing in the Keys, and a woman falls into the water next to their boat from the bridge 20 feet above.
This leads Meyer to quip, "Damned handy, Travis.
As soon as you run out (of women), they drop you another one."The unfortunate falling woman is Vangie, and right away her story doesn't add up.
She insists she was trying to kill herself, even though McGee and Meyer heard a car speed away from the bridge above.
Oh boy...I am, obviously, a fan of vintage books, but there's a trick to reading stories of a certain age.
You have to approach them on their own terms, ignoring your own politics to a certain extent.
This often allows you to enjoy books that would otherwise make you cringe in their approach to various topics and/or people...And this time, I just couldn't do it.
At best, a woman in this novel can be expected to be treated as a fairly handy place for a vagina.
I will still read others of MacDonald's oeuvre, but without the same careless zest.
As the story opens, McGee and his buddy Meyer are fishing and minding their own business when a girl is thrown from a bridge, tied to a concrete block.
McGee fishes her out, and together with Meyer they slowly uncover the girl's sordid lifestyle.
It turns out she's more than just a high-priced call girl.
Better yet, Meyer plays a large role in this story.
For this first time in the series, Meyer is more than just the occasional dock side companion.
He's in it up to his neck as McGee's assistant, and I liked that.
The first novel featuring Travis McGee's hairy, intellectual sidekick Meyer, in a leading role.
They learn that the men who attempted to kill her are mixed up in a nasty game of murder and extortion and when Vangie makes an attempt to recover her stash, they find out she is alive and finish the job this time.
McGee takes it upon himself to exact revenge upon the group, beginning a dangerous game of kill or be killed.
Wonderfully written and laced with the usual social commentary that marks the McGee novels as unique in my opinion.
spoliers ahead!Travis once again displays his overgrown hero complex by rescuing another damsel in distress and going after the people that screwed her over.
I was tickled by how tortured Travis was after he did away with Griff.
Oh, and the description of life on a cruise ship - the tiny rooms, deck chair rentals (like the cruise didn't cost enough money?), being stuck on a ship for DAYS with people you don't like, having limited time to explore ports of call - reminds me yet again of why I will never be interested in taking one.
