https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/30241.Bloody_Bones
Anita Blake has all those traits that are usually connected to romance novels where an alpha man, a strong man, is also an huge brownie point asshole.
- there is a problem with Kindle version, it is addicted to a sign "<" for reasons unknown to me.Overall, this installment had more gory glory in it, which is something I like, and does show this is not a book for kiddos, but it really doesn't tickle a person like me, one who has gotten used to the sicko, and requires more and more to get really excited about.
And here's the woman who'd rather shoot first, ask questions later, who'd rather do her own thing than listen to and obey ANYONE including her boss--and her choice, when faced with the death of her boyfriend, is to date the guy she supposedly hates, instead of, oh, I don't know, SHOOTING THE PANSY VAMPIRE AS MANY TIMES AS POSSIBLE!?!!?!?!
I liked being away from St. Louis, being away from Anita's relationship drama (though, Jean-Claude does appear and bring it with him).When I started reading "Bloody Bones", I thought this would be my favorite of the 5 books I've read.
Well, it is named after a restaurant in the book called Bloody Bones.
Anita actually says a word more often than "Nike." It's "Browning", and apparently it's some kind of gun that she really really likes.
The word "Browning" is in the book 45 times!!
And, there are fairies - beautiful fairies with glittery love powers.um,,,,yeah, that's gonna stick with me for a while....Anita ends up needing help from Jean Claude and I have to say that I am kind of loving him at this point.
Anita is such a badass as usual!
Although I never really learned to like Anita Blake, she was always tolerable ~ until Bloody Bones.
But at this point I feel as if I am wading through the same crap I have read over and over again in every other Anita Blake novel.
Hamilton should give her fans some credit ~ by now we know Anita sleeps with guns surrounding her, and oversize clothes hide her multiple weapons in custom made holsters.
Hamilton gave Anita Blake full Mary Sue status by pointing out all of the similarities between the two of them.
With that said, Bloody Bones is one of her books in the Anita Blake, Vampire Hunter series that really doesn’t do it for me.There are parts of this book that make you read super fast in anticipation of how a scene will turn out!
The twists in this book are interesting, but other than the few scenes that really gripped me, the book is somewhat boring to me.Anita Blake, an arrogant and rude animator and vampire hunter is stuck between the two men in her life that leave her drowning in lustful sexual tension.
“Come to me, child, and I will always be with you. I will hold you forever.”  - Serephina  The most terrifying monster can see into your heart and give you all you’ve ever wanted. Anita has been called to the next town to raise the very old dead and hunt a child killing vampire. It will mean dealing with another Master of the City, a woman Jean Claude never wanted to see again.Anita is pretty awful to Jean Claude in this book but the vampire has long term plans... and they’re working. Some of my casting:
It’s dark and painful to read the grief instilled within some of these pages.Anita must also raise an entire graveyard of the dead for a client with only Larry the apprentice as backup.
Anyway, as we all know Anita is still dating Richard and Jean Claude.
The “monster” line begins to get real fuzzy for Anita and the sexuality is ramped up a notch but I’m still okay with that because there is a plot to this book and it moves.
The only thing missing is the darker edged humor that I enjoyed in the first few books.
Sabırla okuyorum , heyecanla Jean - Claude bekliyorum. *_*
I cannot stress this enough, it made my want to cry on Anita's behalf even knowing it wasn't true.
I loved this book as well as the rest, this series is so good, like I said I cannot stress this enough.
I have yet to encounter a book series like this in which I never can assume ahead of time the outcome.
I don't know now which book I prefer, this one hit me hard, so upsetting but so good as well.
I also find it surprising that Anita finally gave into Jean-Claude (not the way you think, gosh), I thought she would stand her ground as always.
However, Hamilton's writing style just makes me skim through large chunks of the story until I get to the interesting bits, so it's a love-hate relationship.I like the love triangle between Richard, Anita, and Jean Claude.
Just read some descriptions of Anita and then go look at Hamilton's photo).The only thing that struck me as odd was that Anita gets bitten, but doesn't seem to worry about rising like a vampire or needing to cleanse the bite with holy water, which she did in circus of the damned.Also, it is a little ridiculous how Anita manages to kill everything: I know she's tough, but _that_ tough?
This is my favorite book in the Anita Blake series so far.
In Bloody Bones, Anita begins to bend from her very rigid moral code, which is a good thing.
We learn about Jean Claude's background before he was a vamp and his beginning as a vamp.
Learning about JC's background makes him seem more like a person, and it was sad but I also saw him as a victim.
There is some background about Anita and her mother and Anita begins to learn more about her powers and who she is.
Most enjoyable. And she seems to be getting closer to Jean-Claude. Yippeee
I have enjoyed this entire series so far and this one was no exception. I like that the characters are in constant motion. They seem to be moving forward, even if at times it feels like they are moving slowly. But it seems that by the end of the book, they have all learned something new and have adapted. Usually in series, that is hard to keep up, but this author has figured that part out. These have been a fun escape for me. I have a couple more that I hope to get to soon.
A psychotic vampire begins committing murders in the area and Blake must call on her fanged boyfriend for help.What I enjoyed:- Anita Blake finally stops thinking of Jean-Claude as a monster anymore, and finally sees him as not just a powerfully seductive vampire, but as a man.
Seems like a healthy step forward in their relationship (but never fear, the drama is not over.
With Anita it's always "one step forward, two steps back").- The fae make an appearance!
I always love when LKH packs in more supernatural creatures.- The blood and goreWhat I disliked:- Anita is still with Richard.
Not half-bad.
it was a little all over the place near the end, but i still like it so far
Another one done and I loved how it felt as if I was reading this for the first time.And my love Jason is now firmly in the series. I love that mutt.
I read a short story in a zombie anthology where Anita raised the dead, and I thought: "Cool!" So I grabbed a couple of these books. This was okay, but I am so over vampires, especially french vampires. I did rather like the fey and Bloody Bones. But I don't know if I can handle another in the series. If you like vampires though, go for it!
This was a really good story, powerful vampires, conniving humans and some fae thrown in for good measure.
Not to mention un-dead pedophiles....yeah that's a disturbing one.Anita and Larry get the full limelight and it's a really good team story, the dynamic with Jean-Claude is fun too and although the subject is there the 'who-to-choose' romance isn't at the top of agenda.There's the usual mix of good and bad characters, odd individuals and true bad guys.
There's guns and magic and blood and gore and all the rest you'd expect.
Our priorities and logic will always differ.This book, Bloody Bones, has easily become my favorite in the Anita Blake, Vampire Hunter series for a plethora of reasons:(view spoiler)[1) The love triangle is not really an issue.
There are subtle hints, but for 95% of the book, she spends her time alone with Jean Claude, Jason–his werewolf to call–and Larry.
But this time, the small little peek we get of Jean Claude's path in the bubble bath was highly interesting, and for the first time, humanized him on a level that even Anita and her dumb logic could not overlook.3) This book had fae.
Maybe "Micah", as well.) We also got a little bit of Richard before Anita left town, so we got both of our leading men.
It's up for debate.)Besides, you can't resist the appeal of "Bloody Bones" for humanizing Jean-Claude in Anita's eyes.
I don't think of him as a monster anymore."Bloody Bones" is also the first book where Anita learns of the vampire council.
*g*I also loved learning more about Jason in this book.
Nothing demonstrated that more than when Anita feared that Jean-Claude drained Jason, killing him.
I mean Jean-Claude and Jason were both humanized after being seen as other.
For all the Anita Blake books - I started this series with my then friend, Meredith - she actually got me hooked that fateful summer of 2000 when I was living on her wooden floor in Brooklyn.
We were both unemployed and bored and got hooked into this series.
The other thing I find annoying is that Anita likes to pick fights for no reason and seems to have the little dog syndrome - always barking up at the big guns.
But then I got annoyed and moved on to other authors who still work with their editors!!!
Bloody Bones continues Anita Blake’s non-stop exploits in a book containing faerie characters and multiple story lines which added to the brilliant book.
Anita reluctantly calls Jean-Claude to help with yet another series of master vamps.Interesting new evil characters like Seraphina and her slave and fey Magnus contribute interesting plot and sub-plot elements.
A huge fight ensues with Magnus to where gasoline is introduced to burn out all of the casket dwellers in Bloody Bones.
(hide spoiler)]The humor of Anita where Jean-Claude was in the bath tub was fun.
There were a few things I liked.
I liked the faerie guy.
I like seeing Jason again, but he was a little too bratty for me this time around, I expected a different type of behavior from him.
I loved Jean-Claude.
I don't know, once again I am disappointed in Anita's treatment of Jean-Claude.
This guy opens himself up to her and once again she walks away and takes it in stride, as if she could care less if he loved her or not.
Get over yourself woman and I wished Jean-Claude would get over her.
Anyway, I only liked the last few chapters in this book.
The only thing that tripped me up a bit was that Jason seemed different than in the previous book; this may be because he was out of his mind for most of the previous book, but his character still seemed a bit incongruent between the two plots.
Nevertheless, I liked his character in this book, and it was refreshing to have at least one character in the mix who knew how to take direction without constant arguing - that got a little old as the book progressed.
Except for the excellent Rivers of London series, the last few urban fantasy books I have read have been pretty lackluster.
I had forgotten how kick-ass the Anita Blake books are.
They may try and fit into modern human life and be understanding, helpful and sympathetic, but she never lets you forget that they are really horrible monsters underneath, even the good ones.This is a fast moving story with plenty of edge of the seat suspense.
Oh yeah, this isn't one for the squeamish:) The narrator also did a good job of giving Jean-Claude a bit of a French accent.
The resulting lack of communication is beyond difficult when there seems to be 2 separate vampire killers.Negotiating with the local vampires, of course, requires getting further involved with Jean-Claude and he never keeps anything simpleLike in previous books, this has several storylines intertwined – but also like the previous books, they all come together.
Because of that, I don’t think this book added anything to the world building – while technically introducing whole new creatures, it just doesn’t fit the overall theme and shape of the series.We had some development of her relationship with Jean-Claude, but it was mainly her letting him closer to her more than anything.
Fans of the French vampire Jean Claude, as wells as fans of the murder and crime and investigation that characterized the first few installments in the series, will love this book.Anita travels to Branson, Missouri to raise an entire cemetery in order to settle a dispute about the ownership of the land.
Hamilton has returned to her style in the first book or two; fast- paced action with great characterization.
Good but a bit gory at times.
I do feel that Hamilton is beginning to shift her 'world rules' a little here to facilitate more books.
Anita feels weaker than in her last book.
I liked the 'twist' in the final 'escape' but Anita's final 'position' seems a little dubious.
There is a feeling that Hamilton has to upgrade the shock element in each book which is a shame, as it is the character interplay that I find the most interesting.
