https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/11551.The_Wolf_s_Hour
Straight epic WWII historical adventure filled with heroism and sacrifice...
or a sexed-up epic werewolf story from childhood through adulthood.
This is all a huge tome with a very long and very adventuresome escapade revolving WWII from resistance fighters, going deep into enemy German territory, Russia, and back to England.
If you like your stories long and exciting and sexed up and very, very, wolfy, then you really ought to read this.
And to make it even more impressive, it's very immersive as a historical drama, too, from '18 Russia to WWII.
They just don't write them like they used to.
That doesn't count since it didn't happen during World War II.Wolf's Hour tells two parallel stories: one of Michael Gallatin in World War II and another of young Mikhail Gallatinov, a Russian boy who becomes a werewolf when his family is killed.
While both branches of the story had a good amount of action, I was far more interested in the Mikhail storyline.
The WWII storyline had far too little werewolf action for my taste.McCammon's writing is workmanlike.
I thought Michael Gallatin was a good character for what he was meant to be: James Bond as a werewolf.
I did not.All in all, this is a good pulpy action story starring a werewolf.
I’ve only read two McCammon books so far (SWAN SONG and THE WOLF’S HOUR), but I’ve come to a conclusion.Robert McCammon doesn’t write novels.
Despite the fact that we know how WWII ended, we feel genuine terror when the Nazi plot is revealed and teeth-chattering suspense when Michael attempts to bring down (literally and figuratively) Hitler’s diabolical plan.From the above comments it might seem I’m bashing SWAN SONG.
And if I had to choose between THE WOLF’S HOUR and SWAN SONG, I’d choose the latter as the better of the two books.
My introduction to his writing was through Swan Song oh so many years ago and I can remember thinking more than once as I read it, that I needed to see what else this guy had written.
Many years have passed since the first time and once again Mr. McCammon took control and just told me a fantastic story.
And that friends is what it’s all about.The story moves back and forth in time between Michael Gallatin’s past and present as a British Spy attempting to thwart Nazi operations during WW II .
Michael as it happens is also a werewolf.
Resistance fighters, Gestapo agents and civilians caught in their web each sense something unique about Gallatin, and as the story moves back in time to Russia, we see how an adolescent Mikhail Gallatinov came to acquire his unique abilities ...If you don't cotton to this premise, I doubt that there's much in Robert McCammon's 1989 hybrid of a WWII action adventure and a werewolf tale that will convert you.
She completes her mission by getting Michael to the Resistance, but feels strangely compelled to go the extra mile for him, posing as his driver and escorting Michael on the deadly road to Paris.-- By the way, amid these set pieces, McCammon over-delivers with vigorous amounts of espionage, sex, Nazi killing and werewolf transformations.
Michael has to learn to live in the brutal world of the wolf and the more brutal (for it is often not of necessity), unnecessary viciousness of humanity.
Even Michael, a man who lived as a wolf and has a dual beast nature, is not so cruel and blood-thirsty as the Nazis, with their racial and ethnic hatred, their greed, and thirst for domination.
In real life, there isn't a such thing as "and they lived Happily Ever After." Instead, we have seasons of joy and plenty, and then there are seasons when sorrow seems to prevail above other emotions.
Wolf’s Hour tells us the story of Michael Galletine, a British spy, during the World War II.
Mr McCammon also told us how Mikahil, a young Russian boy became a werewolf and later turned himself into Michael, a topmost British spy.
How he learned to live in a pack and how he earned the respect of his fellow pack members was truly a heart-warming story, a part which I enjoyed much more than Michael’s.World War and Werewolf is not a combination that looks very promising at first time and that's what I had thought but this book simply blew me away.
4.75 stars...near perfect!That was one amazing adventure! Positively the BEST werewolf book I've ever read! The wolf attacks were brutal...and the back story of how Michael became a werewolf was awesome!! Besides Boy's Life and Swan Song, this is another favorite McCammon of mine!Historical fiction mixed with a horrific mythical creature....equals one awesome story! This one will leave you howling at the moon...ok...I know!, but I just had to say it.Highly recommended! 4.75 stars
This is probably my favorite of all the McCammon books. How can you go wrong with a werewolf master spy fighting against the Nazis? You can't.Its just pure pulp fun. Some may consider it trash but they're just not enlightened.
If Jason Bourne and rabid Lassie had a love child on the set of The Dirty Dozen directed by John Woo, this is what you’d get.Nazi’s make me fucking sick.
I can’t believe that this kind of shit went down not all that long ago.
Anytime a Nazi piece of shit gets killed I can’t help but want to stand up and cheer and there was no shortage of it in this one.
A little spy thriller/ espionagey (yes, that is a word) for me, but I believe it was exactly what it was supposed to be and its McCammon man.
McCammon!
Trashy, genre-crossing mess about a Russian refugee werewolf fighting Nazis and having sex. I read this when I was in my early teens and thought it was pretty pervy, but I'm sure it would seem mild compared to lots of later "paranormal" novels.
again Mccammon found the right note with his feminine characters and they are not in the story as passive eye candy but as fierce fighters and independent spirits.The level of violence and gore is very high, still I would rate this book as an adventure thriller and not a true horror novel.
Well, this book is one such procrastinated effort!At the beginning of 2015, my dearest buddy Manu and I decided to exchange 12 recommendations, with the promise that we shall read all twelve this year.
This book was one such effort and I must say that the rush to the finish line isn’t going to happen, despite the facts that the books recommended by her are truly superb.Coming to this book in particular, I have to say that this is my second book by the author and I totally loved it.
To come.
Fabulously entertaining, an exotic blend of paranormal, war thriller and romance. Defies category. Highly recommend.
McCammon has written some great tales but this is one I can (and have) read over and over and over again.
007 meet the Wolf man; actually no...
007 IS the Wolf man.
McCammon takes you back and forth between WWII espionage, personal vendetta, 007 spy action and werewolf Russian heritage.
As much as i would love to read a sequel I don't want the fun of the original to be squandered.
If you want a great werewolf novel or just an interesting twist on a WWII or spy novels..
this is it.I simply can't find the words to fully espouse how much I freakin love this book.
man this book had it all.
This was not so much a scary book as it was an action packed thriller.
McCammon does provide some gruesome scenes along the way, so scary or not, this is still a horror novel fit for a good pre-Halloween read.
Along the way we are given some back-story glimpses of our protagonists life and his transformation into a lycanthrope, but the bulk of the story deals with him in human form as an undercover agent endeavoring to aid the allies in the battle against Hitler and his Nazi regime.
And now he faces his most delicate, dangerous mission: to unravel the secret Nazi plan known as Iron Fist." This book is packed with werewolf vs nazi action, flashbacks to the Russian Revolution and a rather alarming number of graphic sex scenes.
Update: After writing this, I threw the book in my bag for my honeymoon, and I have about 100 pages left in it.
I knew that the ending was going to suck with about 60 pages left, but what- do you only read the first 540 pages of the werewolf spy novel and then put it down, saying, yeah- it's not that good?
This was a great read. It had a bit of everything and it is well written to boot. And it works. All of it. Yes even the werewolf part. Well done. I want more. I love the being in the present and then the flashbacks. They were some of my favorite chapters. Yes. Chapters of flashbacks. A complete second story. I am sure there are amazing reviews out there about this book. All I can say is that I can recommend it to anyone. Why is there not more??
Another splendid story from Robert McCammon. THE WOLF'S HOUR is a high octane supernatural war adventure, that makes you feel like you're in another grand Indiana Jones movie. The characters and the intrigue are wonderful. This book keeps you guessing until the end. Fantastic...
It's a fantastic journey thru the life of a man who indeed gets bitten by a wolf and then is taken into the pack of people who can transform into the body of a wolf (and back) at will.Seeing the struggles of a child learning to deal with this (both physically and emotionally) as he grows up is compelling enough on its own...but also seeing the grown man try to unravel a mystery intertwined with the Nazis and World War II is simply amazing.It's a journey you won't be sorry you took...and you'll wonder why on earth a GOOD screenplay hasn't been written for this, as it would make a really great film, if the subject matter is taken seriously and not as a cheezy werewolf story.
The GoodMichael Gallatin is a werewolf who works for the allies during World War II.
Because he's the man for the job, dammit!The Not-so-goodYa got your present-tense, in-the-thick-of-it story that hops all over Europe and lands Michael and friends into one nest of Nazi intrigue after another; and ya got your past-tense narrative that traces Michael's path from care-free kite-chasing boy to young, abused werewolf in the making.
Sex. Scene.
I skimmed them all, and it was still painful.The GreatAvoiding a crazy game hunter in a scene that is straight out of a James Bond novel.
It’s not that I didn’t like Alexander, only that, when the spy story was going full blast, he seemed more like a comic book character out of “Watchmen” than from a Novel.
The pace of action – drama found a good balance, even with the Super-hero characters and the back story was fantabulous (yes, I know that’s not a real word.) The ending fell a little flat for me when (view spoiler)[ Gallatin gets shot and spends a week healing a grievous wound whit the allied invasion pending.
It takes a pretty good writer to pull this off:Write an espionage tale about a British spy who is in a race against time to determine what secret the Germans have in mind to thwart the Allied Invasion of Europe.
Now throw in the fact that he's a werewolf without making the whole thing sound stupid.Yeah, it sounds really stupid, and the front cover of my paperback does nothing to dispel that.But it really works!
When I was in high school I wanted to write a story with a werewolf and my friend suggested I read this book.
Wolf’ s Hour is much more than just a werewolf book, although just at that level, it’s a fantastic read.Wolf’s Hour is as much a World War II novel who’s main character, Michael Gallatin is a British spy who also happens to be a werewolf.
The book also is chocked full of some nasty bad guys Nazis who I wanted to find an untimely demise.This was the first book I read by Robert McCammon but certainly not the last.
I was expecting this to be the best werewolf novel I would ever read because McCammon is such a fantastic writer but I was disappointed. The werewolf portions of the story were excellent and worthy of five stars but over half of the book was more of a spy novel and that's just not my thing. It may have been well done but I don't care for the James Bond stuff. Our protagonist was a little too perfect. I like my heroes flawed. Fatally so if possible.This was still a good read; just not what I was expecting.
I have absolutely no concrete evidence to support my (admittedly rather tenuous) claim, but at some point over the course of this review I’ll try to explain why I think this may be the case.The principal plot thread sees our hero, Michael Gallatin (born and raised in Russia as Mikhail Gallatinov, and now - after a slight name change - a British secret agent) race across war torn Nazi-occupied Europe, as he tries to unravel the mystery of ‘Iron Fist’; a super-weapon that threatens the success of the Allies’ D-Day offensive.
I found the spy story angle thrilling as I rushed through the pages just as much as I felt Michael's pain as he suffered the inevitable existential crisis at trying to find his place in the universe, straddling both worlds and the ever slippery and relativistic concepts of good and evil.
I felt the cold of those forests and the historical aspects were completely convincing.What I loved about this novel is that the werewolf element never overwhelms the story.
The Wolf's Hour is my second McCammon book.
The first read, The Night Boat was Nazi Zombies which I enjoyed and this book, which may be termed Nazi's and Werewolves was equally enjoyable.McCammon is mentioned in the same breath as Stephen King and is an author I want to read more of (along with King).There are two stories in this book.
Second, is the main character taking on the might of the Nazi's.The Nazi story is more of a spy thriller with elements of horror rather then an out and out werewolf tail (tale).
Robert McCammon is such an amazing writer.
Loved the Wolf’s Hour, a brilliant read.
McCammon is such a vivid writer, he really sucks the reader into the atmosphere of the story I could almost smell the gun oil off of the weapons fired or the smell of pine in the forest when Michael was in his wolf form running through the woods.
I really took my time reading this and savoring it, didn’t want it to end.
I believe years later McCammon wrote a follow up to this, I got to find that!
