https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/538163.Madeleine_Takes_Command
With her mother and father away, 14-year-old Madeleine stepped into the commander’s role when a group of Iroquois attacked. Because of her bravery, a statue of her stands on the St. Lawrence River about 20 miles downriver from Montreal. Madeleine Takes Command is her story, based largely on her own written account of that week. The story is fascinating and impressive, though at times the narrative drags. I recommend it to people studying or interested in Canadian history.
This was a read-aloud with my boys. What a story! The heroine is a 14-year-old girl, and along with her two little brothers and a elderly servant, she held off an Iroquois attack for an entire week. The children in this true story endured sleeplessness and hunger while they demonstrated amazing courage and level-headedness. It was an honor to relay Madeleine's story to my boys.
Worldview - Christian - See Review Read Aloud - 8 yrs + Independent Reader - 10 yrs + Setting:Location - New France, Verchères, St. Lawrence RiverTime Period - 1692Review Left in charge of the family seigneury, fourteen-year-old Madeleine must ensure that the habitant farmers are safe and that the fort is guarded for the sake of her family and for king and country. The Iroquois attack without warning, killing the habitant men in the fields. Under siege, with all but two soldiers captured or kil
Worldview - Christian - See Review Read Aloud - 8 yrs + 	Independent Reader - 10 yrs + Setting:Location - New France, Verchères, St. Lawrence RiverTime Period - 1692Review	Left in charge of the family seigneury, fourteen-year-old Madeleine must ensure that the habitant farmers are safe and that the fort is guarded for the sake of her family and for king and country.
Knowing that they cannot withstand a full assault should the Iroquois mount one, the children set out to deceive them into believing they are facing a fully garrisoned fort.
I really hate child prodigies in fiction.
This book, however, is the child prodigy done right.
Her family lived in and oversaw a manor house and fort on the St. Lawrence River.
One day when Madeleine's father was off with the army and her mother had gone to Montreal to conduct some business, a band of Iroquois attacked.
Madeleine was the eldest member of her family at home and, despite the fact that she was only fourteen, assumed the responsibility of protecting the families that were able to reach the safety of the fort.
Wonderful story of heroism and courage from a 14 year old girl and her 10 and 12 year old brothers who held down a whole fort after an Iroquois attack.
A truly amazing story of strength, resilience, faith and incredible bravery!
I read this book to my daughter who is 11 and my son who is 10.
They both rated this book 5 stars.
This book starts off a little slow but soon the excitement makes you not want to put it down!
This is a great book to read to your kids as the children true character!
A well written story of a true account concerning a fourteen year old girl who holds off a indian attack in New France (Canada).  With her father in Montrial, her mother just left on a business trip, and all but two of the garrison captured or killed while on a hunting expedition, it is up to Madeline, her two younger brothers, a family servent, the two untrustworthy garrison men and a neighboring man to hold the fort together from the Iroque tribe. Based off of the true tale, this was very interesting and well written.
An enjoyable, historically accurate story of the girl who saved the French settlements in Canada.
One of the better books that I've been required to read. 3.5 stars
Read with my daughter for history.
It really is an amazing story and I enjoy anecdotal history so I am glad that we read it.
There was a lot of discuss after we read it: bravery, perseverance, existing on meager food and protection, relations between the Native Americans and the colonists.
I think I learned a lot alongside of Olivia.
However, I think the story could have been told in half of the chapters.
We found ourselves sighing and eyerolling toward the end when several successive chapters detailed night patrols and threat of Indian raids in grueling repetitive detail.
I read 'Madeleine Takes Command' last year and really enjoyed it.
In fact I read it in 1 day, believe it or not.
It was about a girl called Madeleine living in 'New France' (now Canada) whose father was in military service.
Then the Iroquois Indians make siege on the fort they are staying in.
Madeleine takes command as the title suggests and rallies the fort to fight for their lives hoping against all hope that help will come in time.
This book was full of adventure and courage and was a great read.
I read this to my kids as a read aloud.
We all loved it so much.
It’s historical fiction based on a true story and real people.
All the events actually happened which made it so much better for the kids.
It’s a story of the strength and courage of a big sister to keep her brothers safe.
They had an old man to help and a neighbor but it was the courage and determination of the girl that made it happen.
**It would make a great audiobook if your kids love audio stories**
i thought it was good. for me personally, sometimes it was a bit boring... however the more you read it the more interesting it gets. i think it’s a good book though, and i especially like Madeleine!!!! i don’t really think there was a point of Antione... maybe if he was Madeleine’s love interest or contributed more to the story i would have given it a 5 stars
Another good book from Bethlehem Books. It did get bogged down sometimes in descriptions of setting, and I think it could have gotten to the Indian attack as well as through it a bit quicker, but overall it was good and very exciting in many places. Went great with studying the colonial era of history in N. America, especially if you're using SOTW3.
What a great story of courage and determination to overcome in the face of fear and danger! This is such an inspiring story and great to read to children who are studying this time period. It makes it even more wonderful that the story is true.
This was a great book about a time and place in history you don't read about often. Definitely recommend for all ages!
Great read aloud with my seven year old, she was so excited about this 14 year old girl being in charge of the safety of a fort!
The girl listened to this one. She liked it (better than having to read) and noted that it would be a scary time to be in charge...or even there!
School reading.
Based on a true story, in the winter of 1692-93, 14-year-old Madeleine Verchere, along with her two younger brothers and a few other companions, must bravely defend her family's fort just south of Montreal, Canada from a band of raiding Iroquois Indians.
This book, first published in 1946, is based on the true story of a young woman who, at the age of 14, thwarts a Mohawk attack on her family’s seigneury with only the aid for her two younger brothers, an elderly man, and two soldiers.
I was only mildly interested in the story, but Saoirse, who is 12, hung on every word, moved by the protagonist’s bravery and intelligence.
She insists on sharing the title with every girl she meets, and assures me that every young woman her age needs to read it.
Working with feverish haste, Madeleine selected muskets, pistols, powder, and bullets.
The sight of a man's hat, an old one that had belonged to her father, lying on a powder cask, gave her an idea.
She pulled off her linen cap and put on the hat.
She was adjusting powder horn and bullet pouch when Louis and Alexandre ran with Laviolette at their heels.
"Arm yourselves quickly," Madeleine ordered.
"What is your plan, Ma'm'selle?" the old soldier inquired.
We are fighting for our people-what are left of them-for our country and our faith.
Let us fight to the death if need be."
this is a very good book about a girl in the 1700s.
one day, indians attack unexpectedly and most of the soldiers are killed before they can close up.
all they have to guard the place in the end is one 10 year old boy, one 12 year old boy, a girl 14 years old, and an old man.
they have the remainning 2 soldiers and a friend gaurd the women and children while they trick and hold off the indians for over a week.
it is a true storie too and is realy good!!!!!
I wish I could give this 4 stars.
It's very historical but I feel the book gets bogged down in seige details.
By the end the kids and I felt exhausted with it all, maybe that's the desired outcome - to feel as tired as Madeleine must have felt after holding the fort.
I choose this book as part of Cdn. history study because it is part of Quebec's history and the accuracy of the book is much appreciated.
This book would have been less engaging for my kids if it was about a geographical area foreign to us.
Even being a true story couldn't make this book very interesting. Nodded off a few times while my daughter read it. The french names that we didn't know how to pronounce did not help.
I really, really liked this book. I didn't expect too, as I must admit that I did judge it by its title. Not its cover though, once I saw the art, i no longer expected something I wouldn't like. I read it for my school work, but truly it was very good. And the fact that it was a true story made it special.
Bethlehem Books...takes me down memory lane! I read a few excellent books from this publishing company and Madeleine Takes Command is one of them. Since I read it about 13 years ago, I do not remember all of the details, but I do remember Madeleine kicking some you-know-what with her spunk and courage! I do enjoy reading about this historical time period and recommend to history buffs.
This was an excellent historical fiction book! The kids and I completely enjoyed the heroic tale of this young girl and her brothers! I kept reminding myself throughout the story that she was only 14 years old and her brothers were 12 and 10!!! They were truly courageous and trusted God in a perilous time!!
A compelling fictional account of a true incident of a 14 year old girl who commanded four men and her 12 and 10 year old brothers in defending a fort in the Quebec wilderness for a week against a band of Mohawks. The reader feels both their concern and fatigue as well as their resilience and determination.
Read aloud to the kids over breakfasts and lunches this summer.... a great look into canadian history through the eyes of a young french canadian girl who was so brave and calm through a very scary time. It was inspiring and the kids also loved it. Reading historical fiction really brings history alive.
This is a good book about a small group of French Canadians fending off an Indian attack while the leader is gone and they have no soldiers. Madeleine, a young lady, takes command of the fort and holds it all together until help can come.
