https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/226486.Clans_of_the_Alphane_Moon
That’s kind of a cool mix of sci-fi and fantasy.Poul: That’s mine again, The High Crusade, published in 1960, waitress, can I get my check?Bob: Oh, Poul, don’t be so defensive, we all know you are a great talent (finishing his last oyster) Now where is that delightful little serving wench?Phil: So, Bob, what do you think about my idea?Bob: Sounds good, I like it, you just need to spice things up a bit.
If you're into stuff like this, you can read the full review.Non-Predictive SF: “Clans of the Alphane Moon” by Philip K.
DickThe actual potential, some of it realized already, of science is mind boggling & dizzying, and SF and TF both provided dazzling and wondrous possibilities to people's minds, especially young people's minds.
When Phil Dick was writing there was a great deal more wonderment, and a great deal less expectation, in TF.
Although there is more wonderment now in one sense, in that science and technology are making the stuff of SF real almost as fast as SF or TF writers can imagine it.More stuff on the other side of the Fog.
If you're still unable to find an idea for the Dick review." Manny groaned inwardly: as usual, the powerful GodReads combine were making sure they stayed ahead.
Augmentation of reality, revelation of symbolic structure, that kind of thing.""Sure," said Manny absently, as he inserted the cartridge into his worn player.
It resolved into a bearded male face that seemed oddly familiar."Who are you?" asked Manny, more intrigued than frightened; evidently, Cara's Psi powers were somehow modulating the holovid transmission.
You believe the Paraclete has left you, but it remains.""The Paraclete?" said Manny, puzzled."The Holy Spirit," replied the voice.
Of course, that hasn't stopped them from building a skewy-functional society over 20 years full of overreactions but relatively peaceful cooperation among all the bickering.Move on to a few "normal" Earthlings, a bitter struggle between an idiot CIA man, his idiot psychologist wife, and an idiot popular comic and we get paranoid intrigue, suicidal depression, telepathic slime molds, buxom women, and an interplanetary war.I kept suspecting that this whole novel was a fever dream of a man in a psychotic break, but no, no cheap tricks here.
If I had to compare it to anything, I'd rank it along the same line as the original Total Recall with Arnie.
Clans of the Alphane Moon is about a human colony on a moon called Alpha III M2 in the Alpha Centauri star system.
As usual I find Dick’s dialogue a little stilted, and, as usual, I don’t mind at all because I feel it is part of Dick’s charms and makes his book a little more surreal.I don’t consider Clans of the Alphane Moon  to be one of Dick’s finest books but it is a fast read, imaginative and a lot of fun.
Cred că asta a fost cea mai "normală" carte de Philip K.
Eliberată de responsabilitățile căsătoriei, Mary decide să accepte postul de consilier psiholog în cadrul expediției terrane ce va vizita Alpha III M2, un satelit colonizat în trecut de către Pământ și obiect de dispută dintre acesta și Imperiul Alphan.
Pe de altă parte, m-ar fi încântat mai multe detalii despre Imperiul Alpha și locuitorii săi; nu prea m-am putut apropia de Chuck sau Mary; personajul meu preferat din toată povestea asta a fost plasmodiul telepat (mi-a adus aminte de greierașul-conștiință care tot țopăia pe umărul lui Pinocchio).
Of all The PKD novels I've read so far, this is one of the most fun.
It would be difficult to argue, but it is an original and intelligent tale written during his most prolific period ('63 to '66).
It is PKD primarily addressing mental illness (a subject he, no doubt has a unique perspective on) in the SF genre.
Think "One Flew Over a Cookoo's Nest" done by Dick: Humour and utter weirdness.
La premisa es original y bien pensada y como casi todos los libros de Dick, la ambientación es maravillosa y llena de ideas sorprendentes.
Con la sensación de que tendría que ser algo más.Y además, me ha faltado que explorara más la ambientación de Alfa III M2, porque la idea de los clanes es genial y no está suficientemente explotada para mi gusto.
No es el mejor libro de Dick, pero se lee rápido y tiene unas ideas maravillosas.
There are parts when the main character is living in a slum with a telepathic slime mold as a neighbor and a perky girl who can turn time back five minutes as a love interest that seemed like the set up to some gloriously weird sitcom.I love how Philip Dick's personal life manifest themselves so bizarrely in his trudging-away pulp fiction: here he is no doubt manifesting some insecurities and frustrations about his ex-wife, his attempts to find employment, his fear that he may be mental.
Πολύ ωραία και πρωτότυπη η ιδέα μιας κοινωνίας ανθρώπων με διαφορετικές ψυχικές ασθένειες και το πως αυτοί μοιράζουν μεταξύ τους τα διάφορα καθήκοντα που είναι απαραίτητα για την επιβίωσή τους.
Γιατί ναι, σίγουρα θα ευχαριστηθώ έναν καλογραμμένο serial killer, αλλά το να βλέπουμε άτομα με ψυχικές ασθένειες μόνο σε παρόμοιους ρόλους δημιουργεί μια εντελώς λανθασμένη εικόνα.Τέλος, λάτρεψα το πόσο ευφάνταστος είναι ο Dick με τις διάφορες εξωγήινες φυλές, και αυτό είναι κάτι που νιώθω ότι λείπει από τη σύγχρονη επιστημονική φαντασία λόγω του ότι οι συγγραφείς επικεντρώνονται στην αληθοφάνεια και στο τεχνολογικό κομμάτι, κι έτσι η φαντασία μένει λίγο πίσω.
"Clans of the Alphane Moon" was one of six books that sci-fi cult author Philip K.
And then there is Lord Running Clam, easily the most memorable and likable character in this book: a telepathic, self-locomoting, yellow slime mold from Ganymede (!) who befriends Chuck and helps him on his adventure.As you may have inferred, there is some pretty zany sci-fi plotting involved here, with 36 named characters, and Dick mixes his stew with a good deal of zest and humor.
And Dick's Earth of the mid-21st century almost seems as whacky as the Alphane moon (and perhaps that is the point).
Really inventive plot, totally out there characters, a weird network of partially developed symbolism – the basic elements you’d expect from PKD.
It’s a fun read, but it’s not really very good.
The plot is ridiculous, of course, but that’s not where I take issue.
Instead, my complaint is about the writing: a good deal of the dialogue feels unnatural, and most of the characters are underdeveloped.
That said, the Ganymeadean slime mold is excellent – a memorable character who is a lot of fun to visualize, especially in the scenes in the apt on Terra.
Matching soundtrack : Like Spinning Plates - Radiohead
Este libro me ha recordado a un gazpacho.Me explico: escoges productos vistosos, los preparas con cariño, pero resulta que se te olvida probar el pepino, y éste sale agrio.
A veces pasa, y se jode todo el gazpacho.Con este libro me da esa impresión.
El final no me ha gustado especialmente, como se puede ver, más que nada por la locura en que se convierte toda la trama, que se enreda y no sabes dónde tienes pies y cabeza.Y, pese a todo, al contener esas ideas, esos pensamientos tan curiosos, cuando pienso en el libro en conjunto sonrío y pienso que ha merecido la pena.
Nuestra concepción de comunidad se ve desafiada por un planteamiento, en apariencia tan sencillo como qué pasaría si mandamos a todos los “locos” a la “luna” y los abandonamos por 25 años ahí.Esta novela está basada en un cuento previo de Dick, La estratagema (Shell Game, 1954), pero, en la novela, se ve reflejada parte de lo que atravesaba el autor en su vida: después de aventarse cerca de 11 novelas en un periodo cortísimo de tiempo, atravesaba otro divorcio y a eso le sumó un intento de suicidio.No sé si ya habían llegado a sus manos: Maladie mentale et personnalité (1954) y Histoire de la folie à l'âge classique.
Vuoto cosmico Idea interessante - la classificazione della malattie mentali - che paga a caro prezzo una scrittura poco ispirata e un contesto, attorno all'idea, oggettivamente debole.Non si perde mai del tempo a leggere P.K. Dick, ma è innegabile che la brillantezza dell'autore vada cercata altrove.
An ugly divorce wrecks the plans of two inter-system empires... This is SO Dick.
Mary and Chuck are on the verge of divorce and therefore on opposing sides when they reach the moon.
I told her if you read science fiction from 60 or so years ago, you notice that a lot of it is real now.Clans of the Alphane Moon turned out to be pretty thought provoking in these days where crazies and criminals appear to be running our government and where we who have been reduced to constant anxiety must somehow band together to save our country, maybe even the world.
Ovaj. Prevod.Ne.
As a term of Chuck’s divorce, he is made to take a second job as a scriptwriter for Bunny Hentman, a Sid Caesar type television comedian backed by a military industrial conglomerate of Alphanes—an insectoid race engaged in galactic cold war with Terra.Meanwhile, trouble is brewing on Alpha III M2, a lunar insane asylum turned semi-independent colony, organized around a clan system where membership is based on type of psychiatric disorder—there are the manics, paranoids, hebephrenics, and so on.
It has all the deficits I've come to expect: •Misogyny•Antiquated psychiatry•Poorly realized protagonists•1-dimensional supporting characters•Stiff, pulpy dialogue•Poorly paced conclusion•Loose ends tied up hastily at bestBut this one didn't redeem itself with any of the solipsistic puzzles or mind-twisting plot tinkering that makes it all well worth enduring.
The plot skeleton held promise, but I couldn't sustain my optimism past halfway through, where many of the best parts were ditched in favor of trivial conventions.Oh, well.
And at worst, I can always come back to stories like The Three Stigmata of Palmer Eldritch, or Do Androids Dream of Electric Sheep, or Martian Time Slip, or Now Wait for Last Year, or Ubik, or...
Kitaba kötü diyemem ama daha iyi bilim kurgu romanları okumuştum. Yine de akıcı bir romandı. Bilim kurgu sevenler deneyebilir. Bu arada ilk defa bir Philip K.Dick kitabı okudum.
He knew the psychiatric lingo and at times used it as rigorously in his personal relationships as he did in his books.Alpha III M2 is one of the purest creations of his experiences with mental health professionals.
He did not belong in any of the settlements here on Alpha III M2; here he was a loner, an outcast, accompanied by no one even remotely resembling him."Maybe not exactly a cri de coeur, but it seems one of the most personal statements PKD has made in his work to this time.But then again, his is also improving his knack for toss away nuttiness.
The only thing I didn't like was the ending.The more interesting part of the story takes place on a moon orbiting an alien inhabited world in the Alpha Centauri system.
It looks like the Communism now dominates the world, but the US has become its own brand of totalitarian superpower.
The “protagonist” is a CIA agent, at least initially.As the story progresses it becomes obvious that the sane characters aren’t that sane, which kind of makes the justification for taking over this moon absurd.
Its actually a pretty complicated plot and universe, and it feels super real.Its paced perfectly.
Dick is unique in the field of SF as far as I can tell.
Nobody else I've read or even heard of would have thought up the premise for this book, which I'm not going to give away.
Yes, it's about a CIA propagandist caught up in an interstellar web of conspiracy, largely through his own foolishness, but no, it's not really about that, at all.
It's difficult to talk about the true theme without spoiling the effect, so I will save that for the bit hidden behind spoiler tags.THIS REVIEW HAS BEEN CURTAILED IN PROTEST AT GOODREADS' CENSORSHIP POLICYSee the complete review here:http://arbieroo.booklikes.com/post/58...
I love when SF meets Psychology, and I loved this book for it reminded me a bit of Asimov (due to its style and how the author touched the idea of robots) and of Almost Human (John Kennex and Chuck Rittersdorf have one or two things in common methinks).
But I cannot say that this book impressed me too much despite having an interesting approach to Psychology in the future.
Maybe it was because it was fast paced or maybe it was because it borders a bit on sexism if you ask me.
However, I quite liked it and now I am curious to read other books written by this author.
I wouldn't recommend this one as an introduction to the world of PKD, but for die-hard fans, heck yeah, quite a ride!
I had to qualify my praise because I don't think the main character is particularly likable...
Or likable at all, really.Also, a lot of people might be turned off by the fact that a lot of the book centers on a very dated understanding of psychological disorders, but come on.
Classic sci-fi.
For me at least, it's easy to forget just how old most PKD books are because everything feels so timely and modern...
that is to say, disturbing and weird.
Not my favorite. Stilted idea does not stay true to its own improbable rules, resulting in a whacky plot. Phil's worldly relationship woes spill on to the page and he once again avoids starvation. Mission accomplished.
Ah, što god uhvatim do Dicka u zadnje vrijeme nekako iskače iz tračnica. Ovo čak ima i dobru fabuli i nekakav jasan zaplet i likove, ali opet ga je teško čitati jer bacaka okolo ko štuka na suhom pa u nekim dijelovima ne može čovjek uživati u čitanju već se pitaš koji k?
This is a good one, and I liked it a lot. Interesting plot and characters. And also quite funny in places.
