https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/41918.There_are_No_Children_Here
For those wondering what happened to Pharoah and Lafayette, here's a quote from the author, taken from a 2011 Chicago Tribune article:In 1991, the same year the book was published, Henry Horner residents embarked on a legal battle that led to a federal consent decree to have the site redeveloped.
He was paroled this year after being convicted on separate drug, drunken-driving and handgun charges.Depicted as the reserved older brother, Lafayette Walton said that he was conflicted about the success of the book during the 1990s.While he got to travel the country and earned a bit of a celebrity status, the family was still poor.
This book changed my entire perception of the power of journalism.
Kotlowitz follows the lives of two young boys growing up in the projects of the near West Side of Chicago.
I consider it a seminal book in my life.
It is exhaustively researched, and his access to the subjects just astounds me.
Then the story he records just astounds.
Before reading this book I would never have believed that life could be so destitute and hopeless for people inside the United States of America.
It challenged many of my assumptions about government, birth control, criminal justice and gangs.If I could give this book six stars, I would.
A must-read.
I think it's because I wanted to keep hearing about Lafayette and Pharoah's days...make sure they were okay.
There is so much chaos in the Lafayette and Pharoah's lives.
The book affirmed the importance of school with all its rules and rituals.
The biggest idea I take from this story is, as a teacher, school can offer some order, structure, some connection between cause and effect for kids who don't have it in their homes and families.
I'm also really interested in all the descriptions of space in the book.
I'm grateful for what this story has made me think about.
At the time this book was written, I was nearly the same age as the main characters and living only 12 miles away in the near west suburb of Bellwood.
I'm now convinced that it is nearly impossible for people to rise out of their circumstances.
And the vicious cycle continuing when your child's lack of education lands them right back in the projects?On the other hand, I also came away from the book with the realization that the people described should not be understood based on their circumstances.

The book spans 4 years and deals mostly with describing how the boys are affected by poverty, violence, drugs, gangs and run-ins with the police.
Maybe that's what Kotlowitz was going for.The chapter where Lafayette (the older brother) confronts his dope-fiend father seemed like the climax to me.
I almost cheered.The last chapter of the novel describes how the juvenile court system fails Lafayette, accusing him of a crime he did not commit.
I was arraigned in a packed, public court room - juvenile proceedings are supposed to be private.
Though Kotlowitz never details it, the reader can see that Terence, the boys' eldest brother, encounters the same irony.
Many of them tend to blur together into one tangled mess of shootings, pregnancies, drugs, and live-in fourth cousins, but this one really broke my heart.Instead of trying to detail every catastrophic news blurb that makes it out of the projects, a white reporter named Kotlowitz somehow manages to spend years hanging out with just two project boys, Lafeyette and Pharaoh.
But Kotlowitz is best at conveying the psychological effects of all of this, the boys fear of growing up, or of not growing up at all ("if I grow up I want to be..."), and the desire for peace or for any sign of hope among the other residents of the projects.
Readers may have to continually remind themselves, "This book is taking place in America.
This is not a war-torn, third world country.
This is the richest nation in the world." The writing style is dated, but the things described here are still occurring every day in our nation.
You think of all of the money spent to do things like give police in podunk towns military-grade vehicles and subsidize the production of junk food, but we can't even perform enough maintenance on low-income housing to make the buildings safe and suitable for human life, let alone all of the other stuff going on here.
But we had a decent apartment in a safe, lower middle class neighborhood, adequate schools, and plenty to eat.The lifestyles and environment of people who lived in Public Housing such as the Henry Horner Homes in Chicago, on the other hand, were so far below my standard of living, as to make me ashamed for ever having used the word "poor" in regards to my childhood.This book takes you into the Projects, where you can almost feel the frustration, fear, and hopelessness that the Rivers family and their neighbors lived with on a daily basis.
Most People are oblivious to the things that go on in Henry Horner or any other project in America and this book shows the every day struggle that "The Other America" goes through.
At times I felt sick to my stomach while reading this book but it's the realness that affects you most of all.
This book details building conditions (the way they were built to repairs never being made), violence and crime (the lack of police, also murders and gang activity), and families caught up in the middle trying to raise their kids the best they can with what they had.
An non-fictional account of American poverty as experienced by two adolescent boys and their mother in a Chicago housing project during the late 1980s.
Incidentally, the book reads more like a novel than a work of non-fictional journalism.
The impression that these stories left with me is that good people in bad situations can't help but be stifled.
Anyone who wishes to truly understand poverty and help those in need should read this book.As a side note, I only became aware of this book because I saw the made for TV movie that it inspired in 1993, when I was about the same age as the boys in the story.
Poverty still limits far too many children in America, and even though it's certainly lessened, it's still a traumatizing reality for far too many people.The stories are the heartbreaking reality of what it means to grow up poor in an American city.
LaJoe, the mother of the two chief characters in the book -- boys Pharaoh and Lafayette -- constantly fears that her sons will be conscripted by the gangs or even outright killed in the crossfire.
The entire time I was reading the narrative, I had a sinking feeling things didn't end well for these boys.
This nonfiction account follows the lives of Lafeyette and Pharoah Rivers, two brothers growing up in Chicago in the late 1980s.
Lafeyette and Pharoah live in the Henry Horner Homes—a public housing development—with their mother, LaJoe, and an assortment of other relatives who come and go at random.
As the brothers grow up, the challenges they face are numerous and, sometimes, overwhelming.I didn't want this book to end.
I became so attached to Lafeyette and Pharoah that, after I finished reading, I jumped online to try and find out where they are today.
This book is a must-read for everyone.
I read this book over the Christmas holiday.
1) So many people in roles who are to help kids in these situations just gave up.
I don't have the answer for fixing all of this, but I do like to help people who want to help themselves, and, kids in situations that cannot do anything about their place in life should be given a solid place to learn and grow.I like to think our America is a good place, but there are parts that are unlike I have ever experienced.
I'm just a couple years older than the kids in this book.
This book is a true story about two boys that grew up in the project.
It talks about how their mom protected them from the dangers of their situation.
Their house was never what they wanted but they made it work for them.
They take their terrible situation and turn it into something good and look for the good in all the bad.
It really captures what is going on in this world and shows how there are children who go through horrendous things and still come out on top.
By focusing on the lives of two young boys instead of a housing complex or city as a whole, Kotlowitz illustrates how trauma, tribulations, and every day life for marginalized inner city children stacks up - very much like an unsteady house of cards.
Also, while it may seem as if Kotlowitz is using the happenings at Henry Horner Homes as a pity-and-shame filled spectacle at first, the intent and purpose of the novel becomes more clear with the passing of each chapter.
Above all, the novel is an important reminder that we must work towards providing each and every child with the resources and experiences necessary to have a fulfilling and content life.
Painful, depressing, and mostly hopeless.
Those were the feelings I had reading Kotlowitz's book detailing the lives of families, particularly two boys, "imprisoned" in the projects of Chicago in the late 1980s.
This must be a bit what living in a refugee camp must be like.
This must be what living in Afghanistan or Iraq or Gaza must be like.
Gangs, drugs, crime, lack of opportunity, distrust of the police and legal system, no employment opportunity.
How does anyone escape?
Despite that, I am very glad to have read the book and glimpsed a U.S. that I never understood.
Interesting read, and I respect what Kotlowitz achieved in bringing the troubles of inner-city America to suburban audiences nationwide.
However, the pace is glacial and the book not particularly well-written; in addition, I noticed an astounding number of typos and other errors in this text.
I rarely if ever notice spelling errors in books, but could not help but be distracted by the frequent errors in this edition.
And before you complain, I don't mean quoted text contains slang and misspellings, only the portions outside of quotation marks.
Glsd I read it, but that is about all the praise I can muster up here.
This book has been on my to-read list for a while.
Those two little boys (who are now grown men who are older than I am) are going to haunt me - I haven't stopped thinking about them since I finished the book.
This is an especially harrowing read in the wake of the Trayvon Martin tragedy.
If you're not comfortable challenging your perspective on privilege, race, class, and social justice, this book is not for you.
(Higher Ed friends - it reminded me of A Hope in the Unseen in many ways, so if you liked that you would probably like this one, even though this story is much more dated at this point.)
This reads like a sociology textbook, rather than a novel, which it is not.
In all fairness, I lost interest halfway through the book.
The climax that set the rest of the book apart hadn't shown up in those first 150 pages.
Every day was conflict and climax.
It is heartrending yet achingly difficult to not ask myself, as a middle class Caucasian, why did she continue to have children when the father was out of the picture?
Why didn't she seek employment sooner?But, as I pointed out, the circumstances of these people are so foreign to me that it was and proves to be, a very good education on the projects of Chicago.
It came as a huge surprise to me that I loved this book as much as I did.
It was assigned to me at school, and I was less than enthusiastic about reading it.
It took me a little while to get into the writing style - it's not exactly prose, more like a work of journalism or reporting.I would describe this shocking and moving glimpse into the lives of Lafayette and Pharoah Rivers as disturbing, in a good way.
Eye-opening and tragic, something that people perhaps need to read more than they want to read.Stunning.
I read this book while on vacation last week. Very moving and eye opening, poignant and sad. I think it's important to read about what life is like for others, people in different countries, different cultures, or people who live in difficult and turbulent contexts, like the boys in this book, (the Chicago projects). I am now curious about what has happened to the two boys, Pharaoh and Lafayette, and their families and friends since publication of this book.. I wonder, does anyone know?
Not sure how I hadn't known about this book previously. A marvel of clarity and unflinching honesty that never descends to become maudlin, cheap, or manipulative. If you want to get the beginnings of understanding Baltimore's riots or what class differences look like in the real world, this is a good place to start. I am changed for having read this.
This book should be a must read for us all. Truly an eye opener, filled with so much pain. This book shows us the truth about poverty
fucking devastating. you should read this book...everyone should.
After reading a few books about the War on Crime and its impacts on black men over the past 30+ years, I found it enlightening to read about the experience of one family “on the ground” in one of Chicago’s poorest housing projects.
Kotlowitz gives the impression that government and private assistance, though imperfect and strained, were there but the community was too far in the hole to capitalize on them.
In the epilogue, Kotlowitz says he tried to intervene in the lives of Lafayette and Pharaoh, sending them to private school and helping out where he could.
There Are No Children Here was a deeply painful read for me, especially in light of the fact that not much has changed during the last 30 years.
There are real people, real children, a real family.
It's impossible to ignore the humanity of Pharoah, Lafayette, LaJoe, and the rest of their family/friends.
It's impossible not to wish/hope/inwardly demand something better for them.And yet it seems possible for many of us to read their stories, feel some level of emotional impact, and then go on with our relatively safe and stable lives.
This book follows the lives of two boys from Chicago.
It was eye opening to read about their lives in the project and the things they learned at an early age.
The title comes from a conversation between the author and the boys' mother, where the author says that he would like to speak to other children in the building.
The mother replies "There are no children here;" she is not referring to age but the fact that the kids grow up almost immediately due to the conditions around them.
Not that things are necessarily much better now, from what I understand: the public housing complex where the book is set has been demolished, but the elimination of public housing has not done much to ensure that those who lived there have better options, just that those options feel less like the public's responsibility.The book also did help me to understand why it is so hard for people who grow up or live in gang-infested areas to avoid involvement in the gangs.One other note on reading the book nearly thirty years after it was published: I really would've liked an afterward discussing what ended up happening to Lafeyette and Pharoah.
An internet search supplied me with the unfortunate answer: it seems that Pharoah did manage to graduate high school, but neither one went to college and both ended up spending time in prison...
My heart broke for the boys and their family as they struggled to cope with extreme poverty and the violence of their community.Kotlowitz is a talented writer because you can't find him anywhere in the book.
So often non-fiction writers insert themselves in to their writing in a way that interferes with the story being told.
There is no preaching, no lecturing, no opinion sharing, just the story and anything the reader takes from it.
I'd really like to know what happened to the boys once they become adults and whether or not things in this community have changed or improved.
