https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/153575.Pigeon_Pie
Another early book by Mitford reflecting what she knows about life - everyone who counts is an aristocrat and lives in houses so big they don't know who else is living there!
Nancy Mitford was anti-Nazi, her sister Unity was in love with Hitler, Jessica was a Communist who became an American, Diana was a fascist and married Oswald Mosley, head of the British Fascist party at Joseph Goebbels house with Adolf Hitler as guest of honour.
Then as now.The book like Christmas Pudding, which was written by Nancy about the same useless aristocratic types at around the same time, would also make an excellent drawing-room comedy.
She is so busy trying to develop methods for finding these German agents that she is sitting on top of one the biggest spy organizations yet in existence.
It all becomes hopelessly tangled and Sophia is dragged into the tentacles of the organization against her will.
Close friends – if they are indeed her friends – begin to disappear.
One of her friends is found dead in a local lot, but it is soon discovered that the body is that of a pig, while the friend turns up on a German radio broadcast.
Nancy Mitford must be the first author I read who manages to make a novel set in World War II funny.
Sophia also finds herself amidst another mystery when it appears (to which the readers pick up clues much earlier than Sophia herself—who doesn’t seem to notice or take in even things staring her right in the face) that there is a spy in their midst and she must take up the role of a counter-spy to her own delight.
Mitford’s writing and the plot (including the mystery elements) are both great fun as is our heroine whom one likes despite the fact she doesn’t always notice the obvious.
This was a delightful read; I can't understand why I haven't heard of this book before. This actually manages is both a satire and funny at the same time--rather delightful and witty.
I was amused by this light hearted satire, especially considering it was written at the beginning of WWII without the knowledge of the damage and human suffering that was to be the result. It would have made for interesting dinner conversations provided the Mitford sisters were still on speaking terms.
This does not mean that it had ever occurred to them to alter the present situation, which seemed exactly to suit all parties; Rudolph was unable to visualize himself a married man, and Sophia feared that divorce, re-marriage and subsequent poverty would not bring out the best in her character.
Anyhow….’”Sophia explains that the pious, self-righteous Florence (who lives in Sophia and Luke’s manse) may be nicer than they thought because she has a pet pigeon.
Florence looked a bit crucified and said how strange it must seem to live in a perpetual whirl of thoughtless gaiety.”There is irony of situation in this farce, and it’s even more amusing on a second reading.
-Nancy Mitford, Pigeon Pie. Nancy Mitford's light comedy, Pigeon Pie, is an irreverent novel about the British upper class at the very outset of World War II.
Readers who might be shocked by Mitford's lighthearted tone (towards the war) should remember that she started writing Pigeon Pie in 1939.
My Penguin paperback edition has a brief statement of introduction from Mitford, who describes Pigeon Pie as an "early and unimportant casualty of the real war which was then beginning".
Mitford's humor, elegant, class-conscious, and usually quite funny, ensures that Pigeon Pie is an amusing read.
Sophia's enemy, the appalling Olga Gogothsky, may be loosely-based on a real person.
I adore books like this - light, but not trivial.
It made me smile a lot and laugh out loud several times.
If the Duchess of Devonshire, for instance, was handed over to the peasantry to do as they liked with, they would no doubt put her in the best bedroom and get her a cup of tea.
'If the peasantry are really such demons,' she said, 'whose fault is that, pray?'I enjoyed reading it again.
Great book.
I'll keep it for the next time I have flu.
middling 3s -- amusing, but nothing brilliantnancy mitford's satire of the Bright Young(-ish) Things coming to terms with World War II is a mishmash of funny and trite, verging on witty.
the plot carefully balances on the (often horrible) choices of her very recognizable main character, fairly successfully moving things forward at a satisfying clip -- so i'd say mitford's mechanics had improved satisfactorily by this point in her writing career.
nancy mitford is like the clever kardashian of the titled set, if you catch my drift; reading her is a class voyeur's dream, but her worldview is so circumscribed that her smug self-satisfaction is puzzling and often grating.still, a fun read.

18 AUG 2014 - Mr Tony's review brought Pigeon Pie to my attention. The book sounds super. Here is his great review: https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...
Lacks the appeal of the 'Hons', but has a stylishly drawn central character and the period feel of a section of society not often depicted against th.e backdrop of war
The Phoney War is not part of the popular history of the Second World War - we think of the Evacuation, the Blitz spirit, the Dunkirk retreat, the D-Day landings, but the Phoney War now is simply the calm before the storm, but Nancy Mitford is writing in a nation that does not know quite what the nature of said storm will be.
Again not one of her best. But, remember, her worst is better than many other writers best.
God, the main protagonist annoys me to death.
I got an audiobook and listened to it - for a long, long time it was such a boring book, listing some trivia I was not interested in.
And then I started really get annoyed with the female protagonist.
She does stupid things to "outsmart" the police, because she is jealous of her frenemy and wants to be called a "beautiful female spy".
She came up as fibble minded, jealous, incapable of keeping her husband or lover, empty female who thought that she was better than a trained policeman or a security service employee just because of her background.
Her fake feeling of superiority annoyed me all the time.
Written during the first few months of the second world war – the tone of Pigeon Pie is tongue-in-cheek and satirical.
Mitford could not then have known the terrible catastrophic toll the war would take.
Britain was in the throes of what came to be known as the phoney war.
Later of course she came to take the war very seriously indeed – and was instrumental in having her own sister (Diana Moseley) and her brother-in-law interned.Pigeon Pie is not Nancy Mitford’s best novel, but it is as entertaining and engaging, as I always find her to be.Book review: https://heavenali.wordpress.com/2016/...
"It's in all the British papers -- Germany has invaded Poland, war has begun -- and it could cause the comfortably situated Lady Sophia Garfield some inconvenience, especially when her doddery but celebrated godfather, England's bewigged and beloved King of Song, disappears, her "German maid suffers a ghastly demise, and her pampered French bulldog is apparently taken hostage.
Then there's that house guest at the Garfields' London residence who keeps a pigeon as a pet.
Pigeon Pie is a silly little spy saga and satire of society by Nancy Mitford set at the beginning of World War II. The heroine is a frivolous society matron who realizes that her husband has introduced Nazi spies into her household. The novel is funny, especially the character of a faux Russian aristocrat, but it is not as good as the novels Mitford is more famous for, Love in a Cold Climate and In Pursuit of Love.See my complete review here:http://whatmeread.wordpress.com/tag/p...
I have read/re-read all eight of Nancy Mitford's books in chronological order (in the Penguin Kindle complete novels edition, which has a good introduction by India Knight).It's a good way of seeing how her style and skill developed through a long life of writing. Nancy Mitford is like a 20th Century Jane Austen: a witty observer of her own part of society, who manages to define it for us who read her now. She does quite a difficult thing in this one: creating a heroine who is not intellectual but is intelligent, and move the plot forward almost by accident.
This book was published right at the beginning of World War 2 - in 1939.
It's set in the time of the 'phoney' war when nothing much seemed to be happening and people were just practicing first aid and air raid warnings.
Lady Sophia is a young married socialite who volunteers at a first aid post.
Her upper class friends are all pretending that they have far more important war work to do - such as spying.
But it's Sophia who finds herself involved in the real thing.
This is silly in a PG Wodehouse sort of way.
A fun read.
This is such a funny book. I loved it. Unfortunately I couldn't read it on public transport as the copy a friend lent me was a very old Penguin paperback edition that had swastikas all over the cover! Someone could very easily have got the wrong idea.The reason for the swastika artwork, in case you were wondering, is that this is a farce featuring German and British spies in 1939. Unlike her sisters, Unity and Diana, Nancy had no fascist sympathies.
Much as I love Nancy Mitford's later books, I almost gave up on this one after 50 pages. The plot certainly has zest, and the fact that she was able to write a jeu d'esprit such as this in the opening year of World War II provides an interesting insight on Britain's national mood at the time. But the writing is not yet assured, and the jokes are not as good, as in her post-war novels - so although she was 35 when she wrote it, I would bracket it under 'Juvenilia'.
Bizarre, but funny. Nancy Mitford's second novel is…a spy story. About Germans in England during the "Phony War" period. You've never heard of it, because she had the misfortune to publish it in May, 1940, just as Hitler was rolling up France. Suddenly, the book was anything but funny. It fizzled at the time. But it's actually quite cute, 65 years later.
Didn't really enjoy this. Lots of 'jokes' about the war that are quite distasteful now. I know Nancy regretted this and the foreword is explanatory. Story was slightly fun when it got started, but characters under-developed.
This would make a hilarious BBC production - very Upper Crust and all. Did make me want to find more of her books and read them, remembering the time at which they were written. Parts of this were quite funny (Agony 22)
This may be Nancy's most farcical novel. It's easy to picture it being staged, with people just missing the action(s) they most need to clarify the situation. There are a couple scenes involving Morse Code which are sidesplitting. And Sophia absolutely has to be a wide-eyed blond.
The wonderfully witless adventures of Lady Sophia Garfield (hopeful spy) in the first few weeks of WWII in London. Not Nancy Mitfords best. She describes it herself as "one of the first casualties of the war".
A fun read! A comical WWII spy story written right before WWII started. Very British humor. Reminded me of an Audrey Hepburn spy movie. Loved it.Note to Self: My paperback edition is not on here. It's a Capuchin Classics with an almost Gilded Age looking party photo as front cover.
I've never before read a WWII spoof and was not at first sure I could get behind it. As the novel progressed, grew more and more silly, I enjoyed it; however, I think it best that a farce err on the side of being shorter. The novel could have used good trim.
A short book that slips into a soft spy story toward the end. Mitford wrote this before Britain fully entered the war, so it reads a bit like an alternative history. Not her best work, but still a fun read.
