https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/17465249-they-don-t-dance-much
Perhaps the third time will be the charm and the book has now been re-released with an introduction by Daniel Woodrell, a great writer perhaps best known for his book, Winter's Bone.The main protagonist is a North Carolina farmer named Jack McDonald.
He's particularly good at portraying the class distinctions that existed in a small, rural southern community at this time, and he's created a cast of believable and very memorable characters.This is a book that will remind many readers of the stories of James M.
Here I was mixed up in one and it looked like experience was all I was going to get out of it."Smut Milligan is a bootlegger who opens a roadhouse, and finds himself drowning in debt.
So, Smut takes his trustiest employee, Jack McDonald, along to pay the man a visit.
It turns out to be a very unsocial call, and soon the men share a dark and deadly secret.Money changes everything and life quickly becomes a game of who can turn the other guy in and collect the cash WITHOUT implicating himself.
Some of the characters who hang out at the roadhouse love to debate whether or not crime pays.
Just finished this novel moments ago and I'm feeling pretty much pole-axed by the quality of the writing and the stunning and beautifully written ending.
Not really.It's in a league of its own.It's tough and it's hardboiled and a richly rewarding read.If you're a fan of Country Noir you owe it to yourself to read this.I'm going to have to cogitate on this one a while.Might try to write a more coherent review of this tomorrow or the next day.Doubt I'm capable of doing this literary masterpiece justice.It's absolutely the best novel I've read since Donald Ray Pollock's The Devil All The Time or the last Daniel Woodrell.
The book has been lumped into a category called "Country Noir," but this is mainly because it is set in rural North Carolina.
Still, Ross clearly had the talent to continue to write tales in this genre and I'm glad Mysterious Press recognized the book as a neglected noir classic and decided to release it again.
Like the best noir fiction, it explores the darker side of humanity without trying to explain it and gives an accurate, slice-of-life depiction of life in rural North Carolina in the late 1930's.
As you might guess, this fellow has a glass eye that either doesn't fit quite right or is slightly cocked.
Sad to say, Badeye's 'good' eye is also slightly cocked.
Nuances fall by the wayside here, the author pulls no punches with the unforgiving nicknames of his characters and they are fun.
'Making a fuss like a hog over a slop trough' - maybe you have heard the phrase, maybe not - but the picture it evokes is crystal clear.
There is nary a redeeming character in the tale, and hopefully no one to whom you can relate.
I found that the book had a slow start but picked up about half way through. I liked how the narrator started the book the same way that he ended the book.....with pretty much nothing. He played his role well. The stuff in between held my attention causing me to think maybe things might work out for the narrator. Also, for a book written in 1940 I thought it was a pretty good little novel with some well placed surprises. This book is full of characters that are never going anywhere and excel in the art of missed opportunities.
James Ross (1911-1990), said by William Gay to be “the man who invented Southern noir,” wrote only one novel, They Don't Dance Much. The story is set in a North Carolina backwoods town, in the Depression years, and as the story opens, the narrator Jack Macdonald has just lost his farm through non-payment of taxes. Jack spends a lot of his time hanging around the garage and roadside store run by his friend Smuts Milligan. Smuts has some big plans for the store, and soon Jack is working for him a
The story is set in a North Carolina backwoods town, in the Depression years, and as the story opens, the narrator Jack Macdonald has just lost his farm through non-payment of taxes.
Jack spends a lot of his time hanging around the garage and roadside store run by his friend Smuts Milligan.
Raymond Chandler described it as “a sleazy, corrupt but completely believable story of a North Carolina town.”When Daniel Woodrell reviewed Joe R Lansdale’s Mucho Mojo (1994) in The New York Times, he cited as Lansdale’s predecessors James M.
Before McCarthy, before Gay, before O'Connor and Farris Smith and Rash and Woodrell, there was James Ross's They Don't Dance Much.Published in 1940, the original southern noir novel stands the test of time very well.
I guess some of the racial language may be a little fresh for the modern ear but it is very much a novel worth reading and is at the heart of all the southern noir, country noir and southern gothic writing that has followed it.
I read the introduction by Daniel Woodrell first, then read the book itself, then went back to the introduction again and reread it.
I wanted to understand exactly why Woodrell praises this book so much.
My main objection was the narrator Jack.
Although he thought he knew what was going on in that roadhouse he was actually pretty slow to put one and one together.
I also thought that the relationship between Jack and Smut after the crime was committed was odd and non logical, to the say the least.
I was expecting more from this book because of excellent reviews and recommendations, but it just wasn't there for me. The characters were wooden and one-dimensional, and the story was simplistic.
Lola doesn’t have the same business opportunities as Smut, but she does have a killer body, so using her natural assets, she’s managed to snare the town’s richest man, Charles Fisher, the only son and heir of the region’s richest man who owns the local hosiery mill.There’s nothing pretty or marginally decent about any of the characters in the book; this is a hard-scrabble town during the Depression with people ready and willing to do whatever it takes to get by, so there’s no quibbling about feeling guilty or wavering in a moral dilemma.
Set deep in the south during the Great Depression with a wide cast of believable, rough and tumble characters, James Ross’ They Don’t Dance Much is almost Shakespearian in its exposure of the darkness of the human soul, combining the best elements of Raymond Chandler, Flannery O’Connor, James M Cain, Jim Thompson, and even hints of William Faulkner’s Southern Gothic aesthetics.People may not often hear Ross’ name beside the likes of these writers, but they should, because James Ross is at least as good, and in some cases better, than his more celebrated contemporaries.
Set in rural 1930s North Carolina at a highway roadhouse of low repute, this novel first published in 1940 has been getting some buzz as the place where country noir began (and which was promptly lost; the book never sold well).
So that was a noticeable surprise for me.The story is told through the eyes of Jack McDonald, a no-accounter who loses his small farm and finds work just outside town with Smut Milligan, and old acquaintance.
Jack becomes Smut's right hand man, as the only other person about the place with a lick of sense.
a novel that was often declared dead but has never been successfully buried, offers a persuasive portrait of rough and ready America as seen from below..." I forgot who recommended this to me, a Goodreads person I believe, but I would like to thank them.
Interesting story, surprising plot twists that keeps one guessing, and well written.
I was surprised at how well Ross was able to construct North Carolina in the 30's until it dawned on me that this book was published in 1940 so events were fairly fresh.
Interesting that this was his only novel as he went on to write mainly short stories.
Publicado en http://lecturaylocura.com/mal-dadas-d...Según va acabando el año, uno no espera encontrarse ya obras de nivel muy alto; sin embargo, este año, en su mes de diciembre, hemos vivido uno de esos momentos increíbles en los que las editoriales lo han dado todo; solo tenéis que ver mis últimas reseñas para comprobar el nivel, bastante alto, de lo último publicado, y eso que me falta todavía bastante por leer.Uno de estos libros de calidad alta es, sin dudarlo, el “Mal dadas” del norteamericano James Ross (1911-1990) que nos acaba de traer Sajalín.
According to this 2013 appreciation of this novel by Jonathan Yardley in the Washington Post, and (probably reliable) information elsewhere on the Internet, this is a novel that all the cool kids like, including Raymond Chandler, Flannery O'Connor, and George V.
Even this Yankee liked it.While I am grateful for Mysterious Press for saving this novel from oblivion, I am also cranky enough to note no human being seemed to mindfully read the new edition of this book from beginning to end before publishing it.
This "country noir" novel was written in 1940 and is narrated by Jack McDonald who tells us about his experience working for a man named Smut Milligan who operates a filling station and garage outside of the town of Corinth.
Meanwhile, Jack keeps hearing of twenty thousand dollars that Bert Ford may have buried in his yard and gets to thinking about it:"I opened my mouth and listened while he was saying that.
I had about decided on the town for my roadhouse when Charles Fisher snapped his fingers at me."Jack mentions this buried treasure to Smut and before he knows it, Smut involves him in a plan to get the money.
If They Don’t Dance Much is noir, then it’s noir fiction with mules...and the mean streets are dirt tracks through the pines.
First published in 1940, the novel is set in a North Carolina roadhouse somewhere near the back of beyond.
He goes to work for Smut Milligan, but Smut owes money for his new roadhouse, plus protection.
An old redneck farmer with a fondness for the nickelodeon listens to Billie Holliday singing “Strange Fruit” when he’s drunk, and cries into his 10 cent beer.
But that’s when he’s drunk.
They Don’t Dance Much is very sleazy, and probably very real.
Life in a small Southern town in the '30s: not tempting.
A place full of complex power relationships, social and personal isolation, corruption, gambling, lots of alcohol (licit and illicit), sex, and violence, related by a rather hapless first-person narrator, Jack, who floats along as his debts pile up and his land gets repossessed for unpaid taxes; he then ends up working at a new roadhouse built outside town by an old friend of his, Smut Milligan.
Smut's desire for money builds as the local good-old-boy power brokers manoeuvre him into defaulting so they can take over his roadhouse, and he involves Jack in his counterschemes to disastrous effect.
"They Don't Dance Much" was originally published in 1940.
It has been championed as a forgotten classic by numerous big name literary figures over the years, but that hasn't kept it from going in and out of print.
Despite its age "They Don't Dance Much" still feels current and interesting.
Ross was setting a template for the sort of gritty, ugly rural noir currently practiced by Daniel Woodrell and Donald Ray Pollock.
The story centers around a country roadhouse bar.
There's drinking and drugs and sex and crooked politicians.
What keeps the book moving are all the pathetic, comical characters hanging around the roadhouse.
A while ago I read this piece on a favorite book site, The Millions, that told the tale of this lost classic and how now that it's been republished, I should "Read this dark dirty lovely country-noir masterpiece already."I barely cared about any of its two dimensional characters, was only occasionally impressed by its mostly flat style, and even when murders are committed, was less intrigued than I was curious when it'd be over.I'd say that it's definitely a pure noir in the classic sense -- bad people doing bad things and meeting bad fates -- but turns out it's not noir that I love as a reader.
No sé lo difícil, escandaloso o transgresor que era para la época escribir sobre el racismo, la explotación encubierta de trabajadores blancos o negros, la crueldad, la ignorancia generalizada, la hipocresía de una sociedad empobrecida, pacata y alcoholizada, la corrupción como parte inherente al “buen” funcionamiento de la sociedad, la ambición inmoral por encima de todo y de todos.
Solo puedo decir que Mal dadas es una novela entretenida, bien escrita, con un tono general de novela negra, ágil, con una trama mínima enmarcada en grandes pasajes dialogados que retratan muy bien como era (es) esa llamada basura blanca y esos negritos falderos de los blancos.
Not much happens in this book, but I was carried along by how blue collar southern guys talked in the 30s...everything is an understatement, with so many charming simplistic little twists of language...from an author who knows whence he speaks.
It is considered to be the birth of a genre known as “Southern Noir.” Kept alive by word of mouth through the years, its copyright was renewed in 1968, and has just been put back into print, part of the renaissance of out of print classics that’s now taking place via computer-driven revolution known simply as print on demand, wherein books can be economically produced as few as one at a time.They Don’t Dance Much, (Mysterious Press/Open Road Integrated Media, $14.99, 288 pages, ISBN 978-1-4532-9620-2) by James Ross is, in the words of Raymond Chandler: A sleazy, corrupt, but completely believable story of a North Carolina town.
Heavily in debt with no prospects and no crop because he’s been wiped out by the boll weevil and he’s a desperate man, McDonald accepts a job in a new roadhouse owned by a seedy, disreputable and thuggish acquaintance of his named Smut Milligan .
The book was originally released in 1940, and was (I believe) Ross’s only published book – a bit of a one-book wonder.The story is set in a small North Carolina town during the Depression – the kind of town where everyone knows everyone and where there are complex shifts of power due to gossip, money and friendship.The narrator of the story is Jack and starts when his land is repossessed for unpaid taxes, and then he drifts into working for his friend Smut Milligan as he embarks on a new venture to build a roadhouse.Smut has a propensity for illicit dealings – moonshine, gambling and an eye for the girl married to one of the richest men in town.The majority of the book is a kind of gentle narrative of life in that kind of town in the 1930′s, and I have to say that I enjoyed it immensely.
The main character, Jack McDonald, loses his farm due to back taxes and has nothing else to do, but accept a job offer from Smut Milligan, a local troublemaker, who wants to open a roadhouse.
Therefore, in addition to having dancing and pay-by-the-hour hotels, Jack and Smut serve illegal liquor made by a black employee of the roadhouse.
In order to find that money, Smut commits a violent murder that Jack is forced to witness and participate in.
I didn't know of a 'country noir" genre, but I guess that refers to noirs that take place in a rural rather than urban location.
I think that crime novels and westerns are similar with desperate characters that have entrepreneurial spirit:).
A number of screenwriters wrote noir and westerns.This book was written just after the Great Depression.
It takes place in a rural part of the Carolinas.
Noir characters are often devoid of any redeeming attributes but here, its mostly desperate conditions that push the characters to do what they do.
The language seems pretty rough for the time.
This is a curious piece. About as hard boiled as it gets within the constraints of what was publishable in the 1930s. If written today, there would be far worse language (F-word, F-word, F-word) and more lurid sexual detail. This novel conveys the sordid, seamy nature of the characters and setting without needing the modern language. This is James Ross's only published novel. He has been called a "one hit wonder," but it's quite a good hit, and better one hit than none.
Si digo que hay que apreciar la sencillez, lo digo por novelas como esta, que apuestan por hacer las cosas sin grandes florituras, sin fuegos artificiales. Dos tipos, un bar, un montón de alcohol ilegal y un asunto turbio por en medio. Dejarse llevar, rutina, cigarrillos, montones de café, venganzas, puyas, y un final de esos buenos.https://viajealrededordeunamesa.wordp...
Una novela que podría haber firmado James M. Cain, novela negra hard-boiled en una expresión bastante pura. América profunda, la Gran Depresión, alcohol ilegal en dosis poco menos que industriales, unos individuos cuya ambición es directamente proporcional a su carencia de escrúpulos, una mujer fatal, racismo por todas partes y un crimen bastante atroz como guinda del cóctel. Un relato desesperanzado, sucio y mugriento, como el escenario en el que se desarrolla.
