https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/5152561-fragile-eternity
I'll be honest and just say that my only reason for reading this is Seth.
And no amount of tatoos or piercings will ever make up for that.I can understand how Aislinn feels, she's under a lot of pressure and she has a lot of responsabilities but I don't agree with her so-called reasons for trying to get naked with Keennan when she thought Seth had left her.
Either you want somebody or you don't.
Trying to sleep with somebody just to see if there could be something is bullshit.
I'm sorry, I wanted to like this.
It turned out to be a rather insightful experience, however, because reading Fragile Eternity help me pinpoint a little better why YA just hasn’t been hitting the spot lately (and I don’t think it’s because I’m getting too old for it, thank the stars).You see, I’m in a reading point in my life where I’m looking for more world building and event-driven novels.
Overall, it was a light read filled with plenty of teenaged angst, and I’m looking forward to half paying attention to the final two as I do yoga, lol.Recommendations: This highly character-driven YA Paranormal Romance is something I wish I’d continued shortly after reading (and loving) the first two books.
Ash feels a pull toward Keenan, even though she knows she doesn’t love him, and feels guilty for the time she spends away from Seth – her true love.Ash’s transformation isn’t just an adjustment for her; it is taking its toll on Seth too.
Between Ash’s increased responsibilities to the Summer Court and Seth’s human mortality there doesn’t seem to be much hope.FRAGILE ETERNITY takes us back to the world we fell in love with in WICKED LOVELY.
3 out of 10 ревью на русском/review in russianIt could be 5 out of 10 stars, if the book didn't angry me that much. It could be 4 out of 10 stars, if I understood that the story wasn't that bad, and the problem was just with my taste being different. But 3 stars mean that I had some hopes and they are shattered now, this is worse than 'not my cup' or 'average read'. Review to come. Seth to die. Wicked Lovely (Коварная Красота):— Wicked Lovely (Коварная Красота) #1/5— Ink Exchange (Роковая татуи

This means that Fragile Eternity was by far the longest book it has ever taken me to read.
If I had it my way, meaning I did not have to mail this book out to a friend, I would have taken another week or so, hoping to drag the pain out over the course of time.
So if you are like me and read those books ages ago, read it again before starting Fragile Eternity.
More than halfway through the book, page 250 or so, did the actual storyline make any sense.
In fact for a hefty read like this, around 400 pages, the entire series moved 3 steps forward and 2 steps back.
There are few characters in this book or series that I even like.
Like banana?)takes Seth into Faerie, there really isn't much of anything happening.
Ban prowling around trying to stir up trouble, Niall being sad, angry and brooding, kind of scary, Keenan still trying in any way to get into Ash's pants.
Serious question, why does everything in the fey world seem to somehow hinge on some faerie guy getting into some teenage girls pants?
The only way the summer court can be strong is if Ash does the deed with Keenan?
A boring plot with few likeable characters - can't recommend.
I was feeling unsure about this series, because I loved Wicked Lovely but felt "meh"-ish about Ink Exchange.
Seth's journey to be closer to Ash, despite the presence of Keenen and the approach of Summer, is at the heart of this book; the choice he makes is not unexpected, but the ending did take me by surprise.
Just wish Niall was a larger part of this one, but perhaps in Book Four?A friend asked if you had to read these in order; my advice is if you haven't read Wicked Lovely, you can't read Fragile Eternity.
Not as bad as Ink Exchange, but nowhere near as well done as Wicked Lovely, this series is becoming a real disappointment.
While teens love series books just as much as adult do, the blatant manipulation of endings designed to force you to buy another book that are found in Marr's world asks an awful lot of readers, especially when they are being asked to buy the book in hardcover.
Aislinn cries. Seth waits around. 389 pages and it's finally over.
"Fragile Eternity" is the sequel to "Wicked Lovely", but the third in Melissa Marr's "Tales of Faerie".
However, this book relies heavily on events from WL, and having read INK will allow you pick up on some subtleties.After the events in "Wicked Lovely" (and "Ink Exchange"), Aislinn is now the Summer Queen, Donia is the Winter Queen, and Seth is still just a mortal (albeit a Sighted one who is best friends with the king of the Dark Court).
The first half of the book reads rather slowly, and it seems bogged down by lots of internal monologues that aren't always needed.
When he let Bananach, the insane war faery, lead him to Sorcha, the High Queen, in hope of becoming immortal like Aislinn, I was frightened for him.
Sorcha considers Seth her foster son and gained a touch of mortality when she gave him a special form of faery immortality.I liked Aislinn less in this installment.
(I certainly enjoyed the scene in which Niall sealed Seth’s alliance with the Dark Court with blood--Keenan’s blood, drawn when Niall punched him.) It was also sad to see Donia, now the Winter Queen, continue to suffer because of Keenan, even lashing out and attacking Aislinn.
I get his dislike for Keenan, but his treatment of Ash is inexcusable.
My favorite irony is that he tells Ash that Leslie was hurt because of her stupidity (which is apparently why he hates her...
The best part is that he is hateful towards Ash because Seth went to Sorcha.
She takes it from Don, from Niall, and in the end even from Seth (I wont even get into my opinion of him in this book, except to say that I have a hard time believing that something that "special" comes in a package that stupid - sure, War, lets traipse off together, I trust you implicitly).Very disappointed.
The nostalgia of this book series is so real, guys. Honestly, they aren't fantastic but damn if they aren't an addicted quick read. Nothing is realistic. Everything is angsty insta-love and rushed plot development and I still just can't stop reading them.
Bir genç yetişkin kitabı, sebebi bu olabilir ancak bunun daha çok Aislinn ile ilgili olduğunu düşünüyorum.Önceki kitabı çok sevmiştim.
Seth ise olgun ve her zamanki gibi karizmatik ancak o bile artık bundan usanmış vaziyette.
Seth gibi birini bile Aislinn delirtti.
:DDünya her zamanki gibi ilgi çekici, tanımlar da öyle ancak karakterlerin, özellikle Aislinn'in biraz daha olgunlaşması gerekiyor.
Bir de Keenan ise gücünü kaptırmamaya kararlı ve her ne kadar aşık olsa da bu aşkı güç için terk etmeye ve Aislinn'in aklı ile oynamaya devam ediyor.
İlk kitaptaki mutlu son tamamen bir hayal artık.Kitaptaki en büyük sorun bence Aislinn'in hala ve daima salak olması.
/working on review/
For those unfamiliar with or new to the series, FRAGILE ETERNITY is the third book in Melissa Marr's Wicked Lovely world and the long-awaited direct sequel to Wicked Lovely itself.
FRAGILE ETERNITY picks up shortly after the end of Ink Exchange and divides its time between the four original principals--Aislinn, Seth, Keenan, and Donia.
Aislinn working really hard not to touch Keenan with a ten-foot pole.
So while all four of the main characters annoyed me at times (I now officially repudiate Keenan), these three peripherals delighted me to no end and from the moment Seth meets Sorcha I hit the point of no return and had to read it straight through to the finish.
Its sad because we dont get to find out the fate of Aislinn and Seth.
Aislinn, Seth, and Niall are the only characters in the whole series that I like so far.
The world is amazing, but in the story I am only reading for Seth and Aislinn.
Hopefully these books are sad because the HEA is being postponed till the end of the series.
In this book Aislinn and Seth werent together often.
In fact, I hate him more after reading this book.
Even if he hadnt returned, and Aislinn had let Keenan woo her, it never would have been the same as it is with Seth.
I usually read paranormal romance for adults, so I wasn't expecting to find this series that interesting.
I love everything about it: The characters, the story, the events, everything.
I enjoyed learning more about Sorcha, she is a great character and I would love to hear more about her.
I always liked Seth, so seeing him come forward in the lead role of this book was great.
I also loved the deepening friendship between Seth and Niall.
What I loved the most, was the wicked way the events got resolved at the end.
If you like YA paranormal books, you'll love this book.
It’s the best book of the series by far.
Fragile Eternity begins right where we left off on Wicked Lovely and Ink Exchange.
I’d recently read Ink Exchange, but it had been a while since I’d read Wicked Lovely, but fortunately I didn’t have any problems getting right back into the story.
I love Melissa’s Marr’s writing, and I think I enjoyed it even more this time after reading her previous two books.
After two books, we finally get to see some of the inner workings, that make the courts so different and yet very similar to each other.
And the introduction to the new characters worked seamlessly within the plot.
3.5 StarsI have mixed feelings about this book. I really liked how it contributed to and furthered the story and universe but, some of the characters annoyed me so much and I became unfocused while reading this story more than the previous ones. Pros: -World building. We meet Sorcha, the High Court queen and learn more about why she is removed from the mortal realm. We learn more about Bananach and her relationship with all the other courts and her frame of mind - she becomes more than a crazed
Seth trusts Niall implicitly and doesn't condemn him for his place in the Dark Court.-Everyone calling out Kennan's manipulative ass.
Niall, Seth, and Donia all acknowledge that Keenan is being manipulative and tell Ash to not give him a free pass for it and I loved it.
Even though I don't really like Keenan, I can't fault him for how he's acting because it is 100% in character as the Summer Court king.
I still really liked this story and thought it did a fantastic job of expanding the world and giving all of the characters more involvement and a place in the story.
Aislinn wants to stay as close to mortal as she can but each day she is one step closer to turning her back on her human side.
Aislinn may love Seth and not Keenan, but she knows by denying Keenan she could tear apart her court.
It is a YA after all) Keenan needs Aislinn desperately and wants to love and cherish her but she keeps turning away from him and will only settle for friendship.
There is one who would love nothing better than having the Summer and Winter courts destroyed and that is Bananach, the twin to Sorcha, the Queen of the High Court.
And while some of the side characters annoyed me or frustrated me, they all obviously play big parts and I'm so anxious for the next book.Emotionally(view spoiler)[The entire time I was reading this book I felt like something big was going to happen and then nothing did.The plot I feel was a long time coming.
At the end of the first book, Ash/Aislinn, the new Summer Queen, decides she'll take the new job but that she wants to keep her normal life as well, including high school, her friends and her boyfriend Seth.
This installment was still hard to follow at times but the puzzle pieces fell better into place upon my rereading it.I have to warn you that it will be hard to discuss this book without any spoilers, so be forewarned that there will be some minor ones.Now that Aislinn has accepted her role as the Summer Queen, she is trying her best to fulfill her duties to her court, but her heart still belongs to Seth so she is only able to give half of herself to help make her court stronger.
Or that the basis for it has come about rather rapidly – we’ve gone from a group of people who were generally friendly but with some issues to resolve, to three hostile armed camps.It doesn’t help that we spend so long on everyone’s personal angst – Niall’s over Seth, Aislinn’s over Seth and Keenan, Seth’s over Aislinn, Donia over Keenan – it’s not a matter of being dull to read (though I can’t say I’m a big fan) but it feels like these vast forces are on the cusp of war because everyone’s too childish to deal with their emotions in an adult manner.
The series' focus back on Aislinn, Seth, Keenan and Donia made the story feel a little repetitive at times, since much of their intricate relationship was hashed out in Wicked Lovely.
Finally, the previous books' endings were left open-ended while still providing closure to the story's main conflict, but this one was left on a cliffhanger, which I really disliked.All that being said, I enjoyed returning to Marr's world of Faerie.
Her books have a way of combining the real world with the mystical to create something entirely new, which is why I enjoy the series so much.
As much as I loved the previous books by Melissa Marr, this one is even better!
You learn A LOT more about the different Courts, how they operate, etc.
I don't think you need to have read INK EXCHANGE in order to get this story, but I now more fully appreciate the story of the 2nd book by understanding how it sets up what I learned in this 3rd book.
At first I was annoyed that the 1st, 3rd and 5th books in this series would be the true "sequels", but I'm now really intrigued with the way Melissa Marr has broken up the story.
The constant learning of faerie law, politics and existence doesnt stop with the first book, Wicked Lovely.
It certainly continues with Ink Exchange and right through Fragile Eternity.Without handing out spoilers, Fragile Eternity is a wonderful read.
He may be the Dark King, but brutal honesty is high on his list of personal qualities!If you havent started the journey that is the Wicked Lovely series, please go out and get the four books.
I have to wait till August for Radiant Shadows (personal competition prize!).....I am now at a loss and will roam the house aimlessly wondering who Ash chooses, will War get her wish?, will Keenan finally show his true side to Ash......
It is also too much drama that I can handle (I can't stand the stupid love triangle - no wait more like love square).I lost a lot of respect for almost every character in these books.
The last half of the book is the only reason I would consider giving this book 3 stars because it focus' more on Seth (my now favorite character).
I don't like how weak Ash is in this book.
Donia is so weak and emotional that she doesn't deserve to be the Winter Queen and why is she stabbing Ash?
One of my less favorites of the series because we are subjected again to too much Aislynn/Ash, who is boring as dirt.
She can't make any decisions, but if she does, they are wrong.
I really can't believe she has two guys after her.
I wouldn't think she would have even one guy after her.
Boring!
She is the worst thing to happen to summer since sand fleas in your bathing suit.Here are the characters that are interesting, in my opinion, in order of interest:IrialLeslieSethNiallGabrialSorchaKeenanDoniaEvery other faeryAislynAnd, this book didn't have any of my first two favorites in it at all!
The sequel to Wicked Lovely, Fragile Eternity picks up a few months after book #2 in the series, Ink Exchange ends. The courts are in disarray due to the new monarchs. War is using this to its advantage. Until one thing changes it all and changes the was Aislinn looks at her future and the future of her world.To say any more would give away so much of the plot. But rest assured that when you finish this you will be clamoring for the sequel to it, and the series, not due out for almost two years. It's that good.
