https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/92936.Red_Azalea
The memoir's first in-depth scene shows a Party secretary by the name of Chain, a mindless political cog, leading a "struggle meeting" against Min's beloved teacher, Autumn Leaves.
Next we leap to age 18 or so, when Min was sent to Red Fire Farm, a collective farm on the Soviet model, near the East China Sea. Among those she meets there is Little Green, a beautiful, young woman who loves many of the things young women often love: makeup, nail polish, clothing, etc.
I've read many translations from the Chinese, and the works of many speakers like Ha Jin writing in English, and Min's achievement is unlike anything I’ve ever come across.
A story of life during Mao’s Cultural Revolution in China (1966-1976) when many were killed or shipped off to forced labor farms.
But, like Cinderella, because of her clean peasant look and attitude, the main character ends up selected to play the role of the young Mao’s wife in a propaganda movie.
This book is also a coming of age story of a young woman who has bisexual experiences.
Min was forced to work on a collective farm and was selected to play the same role as the heroine of the novel (although the film was never produced).
This is one of them.What we have here is a memoir written by a woman who grew to adulthood on the tail end of Mao's reign, the book itself ending a few pages after the death of the Chairman who spearheaded the Cultural Revolution.
The aforementioned Madame Mao was a powerful figure in the Cultural Revolution who helped keep a tight rein over the masses through the use of entertainment in the form of operas.
Anchee (Jade of Peace) is raised on the teachings of Mao, becomes a leader of the Little Red Guards in elementary school, during the Great Proletarian Cultural Revolution in China.
As a bright young woman, a child of two educated parents, and oldest of four children, she is sent off to work as a laborer on a farm, called Red Fire Farm, near the East China Sea, where thousands of young people from the cities were sent to produce food in nothing more than slave camps, under the auspices of the Communist ideal.
Sure, this book is about the Cultural Revolution, but it is even more about both lesbian and heterosexual love relationships.
This is an autobiography, and this book does relate what happened to the author during the Cultural Revolution.
At the end of the book the words used are more nuanced, and yet the sentence structure remains choppy.Events are crudely depicted:She was a worker in a steel factory and was the daughter of three generation of workers.
In most books that which is said is placed within quotation marks.
with the autograph of the author
The book is divided into three sections, which deals with different phases in the author's life.
If I only had to rate the book on this section alone, I would have rated it 3.The second part deals with Min being sent to Red Fire Farm, a slave labour camp to which every family needed to contribute a slave.
Pining for ex-lesbian lover, petty cat fights between the various opera girls, and another boring romance with a man, makes up the bulk of this section.
By the time we reach the end, Mao is dead and the author chooses to cover this momentous event in just one page.
Irony builds upon irony in this autobiography of the best-selling Chinese historical novelist, Anchee Min. During the Great Proletarian Cultural Revolution, a time which Chairman Mao coined as “permanent revolution,” the Chinese people are totally oppressed and required to conform in a way crippling to the human spirit.
Her parents and siblings, also reeling from the severe oppression of the times, are unable to help her escape a fate of back-breaking labor, as thousands of young people are sent to collective farms to literally get them out of the way.
When I first started to read it, I found that I had to put it down several times within the first couple chapters, because the voice and imagery in the story resonated so clearly to me - it was so heartbreaking, violent, confusing and upsetting (despite my not being raised in China nor during the Cultural Revolution.) I think it resembled a similar cultural divide that I had experienced as a 1st Generation Chinese American, growing up in New York and being raised by my grandparents.
I also felt like I finally understood what it must have been like for my parents to grow up in that era in China and how that has affected them as adults.
At one point in this memoir, Anchee Min quotes the proverb "Poverty gives birth to evil personalities".
This book shows that happening, but it is not just material poverty -- the women who have so little power battle each other like a pack of starving dogs fighting over a very small crust.
Min's main theme, too, is the drought of desire in a sexually and emotionally repressive culture.
Min weaves together her themes in a subtle and skillful structure, selecting details and observations from among her memories.
Almost all the major characters presented are women.
When I say this book is beautifully, uniquely written I especially mean the way Anchee Min writes about her growing love for Yan. It’s Yan who makes her feel write this: “I stood in the sunshine, feeling, feeling, the rising of a hope.” A hope like this:She asked me to feel her heart.
When Yan and Anchee finally kiss, it’s beautiful, and sexy, and just everything you’ve been wanting in a love scene.
Okay, don’t trust me: read this quotation:She said, I want you to obey me.
Red Azalea is not difficult to read -- it is a book easily consumed in one or two sittings.
Red Azalea is the story of the author's childhood under China's Cultural Revolution, but tackled with seemingly simple language that manages to impart complicated undercurrents of meaning to the reader.
I found Anchee Min to be inaccessible, and the memoir difficult to ground in reality; however, this did not prevent me from enjoying the book and being vastly educated by it.
Red Azalea is quite different from any book I've ever read: a memoir both complicated and simple, a plot both clear and elusive.
I din't want to rate the book.
How does one rate someone's life story anyway?
Anchee Min is a natural story teller, and her memoir reads more like a novel.
I am not convinced that the relationship between the author and Yan should be so central, and I wonder if it's designed this way just to spice things up.
Despite some of the book's weaknesses, it is illuminating to read this very personal account--and I suggest approaching it as a personal account rather than historical analysis--of a young woman's life during Mao's regime.
This is one woman's story of what it was like to be a girl sent to the countryside in China's Cultural Revolution.
Anchee Min shows how hard it is to pick cotton all day, which of course reminded me of slavery in the United States.
The most unusual aspect of the book is the moving love relationship between two girls working in the same production team.
I am glad that Anchee Min was finally able to leave China, or her voice would have been silenced.
But of course they are present in this book, too, though not directly.
They controlled China, and this book demonstrates that.
This is one of those books that I hardly know what to say about, as evidenced by the fact that it took me six months to finish it.The thing that kept coming to mind as I worked my way through what is essentially a tale of fear, isolation, deprivation, and heartbreak, was ...
I learned all these basic facts about Chinese history in school.
What I did not learn in school was just how brutal it was for all these people to be torn out of their lives and enslaved and starved for an ideology that was essentially a cult.
This book gives us the internal view of Mao China, its Cultural Revolution, the life in a society most Americans are unfamiliar with.
That's certainly interesting.
For me, however, this book is about being human.
The government suppresses people's natural feelings, over and over, with overwhelming authoritative power, and yet, they cannot help being human.
People still fall in love.
The author intentionally leaves much unsaid.
For instance, I don't think she really is unaware of her lover's later life .
Hope the author is doing well these days.
P.S. It seems this book, among many, is banned in China.

After reading "Becoming Madame Mao," a fictionalized biography of Madame Mao by Anchee Min, it was interesting to read her memoir about her years first at a collective farm during the Mao years and then in the Chinese movie industry.
Now it's understandable how she had so much insight into Madame Mao. Living here in the United States, it's hard to imagine life in a country that sounds so much like "1984" realized.
Reading a personal account of someone's life during this period helped to bring understanding of this period in China.
It's amazing that she was able to arrive in America with so much of her personality still in tact.
Anchee Min remembers with clarity and poignancy growing up during China’s Great Proletarian Cultural Revolution (1966–1976). She experienced abject poverty, brutal physical hardship, first love, and loss, all during this extraordinary and terrifying period of China’s history.A Pretty powerful and amazing book.
I really was a bit underwhelmed by this book.Response to Red Azalea, by Anchee Min.There are two aspects I would note in the way Min writes.
(52)The simple language and short sentences does wear on the reader.
I would have found it more effective if the sentences became more sophisticated later in the book, but they really do not.The second noticeable writing technique, one that I hate, is the lack of dialogue punctuation.
Memoirs written about painful life experiences, from cancer, personal tragedy, to big events in first person—the holocaust, Vietnam, Soviet Russia, Maoist China, Rwandan genocide—we forgive strange writing by the power of the experience that is expressed.
Achee Min left her home in a Shanghai tenement to join a labor collective where she lived by the rules of Mao's little red book.
Her oppressive life was described in excruciating detail.
However, I could not see the beauty of the storytelling which many have described as poetic.
I did not gain many insights into this time in China's history.
She described her lesbian relationship with an unconscionable amount of repetitive detail.
I decided to wear my old uniform, the one given to me by Yan." A motionless cricket underneath one of the beds is described next.
Min just published a new book.
This author, born in 1957, grew up in China during Mao's Cultural Revolution.
She was the oldest of 4 children and, upon graduating from "high school" at age 17, had to go work as a peasant on what was basically a commune, b/c at least one child from every family had to give a child to work for the country as a peasant.
Overall, it's a good book, but I didn't like it as much as I thought I would basically only b/c I personally didn't feel the main character/author was very sympathetic.
Min describes a systematically deprived Shanghai childhood (the family was forced into successively meaner quarters); school days spent as a member of the Red Guard, spouting the words of Chairman Mao & being forced to publicly betray her favorite teacher; & later teen years on a work farm in order to become a peasant because peasants were the only true vanguard of the revolution.
The farm years, w/ their backbreaking workdays & heartbreaking, lonely nights, exemplify the grinding insanity of the Cultural Revolution, the terror & dehumanization it inflicted on ordinary Chinese.
I almost felt physically tired while reading about the hard labor she endured on Red Fire Farm.
Red Azalea is the story of a girl trying to grow up in the shadow of Mao- “I was an adult since the age of five,” Anchee Min tells the world.
Flipping through pages of Red Azalea, you will accompany Anchee Min as she finds friendship, falls in and out of love, explores her sexuality, questions her identity and purpose, and, ultimately, experiences all the joy and devastation of growing up.
And the fact that she was able to accomplish all of this within the rigid context of 1960’s Communist China makes the whole story pretty damn incredible.
Anchee Min, best known for her historical fiction work set in China grew up during the Cultural Revolution under Mao. Early on she showed great promise as a daughter of the Revolution even considering, at one time, turning her parents for counter-revolutionary thoughts and actions.
However, when she was forced to lead a public denouncement of her teacher Min began to awaken to the reality of China and Communism.In many ways this book was incredibly disappointing.
While I admit I've never read Min's fictional work, I expected more from her writing.
But, I was barely interested in the story after Min leaves the communal farm.
I don't normally read autobiographies (or non-fiction, for that matter) but I wanted to get a better idea about what was going on in China during the cultural revolution because it is referenced in Liu Cixin's "three-body problem".
(Which I tried to read prior to red azalea but simply found too confusing without the proper research)Red Azalea was enlightening.
I knew who Mao Zedong was before reading this but I didn't fully understand how his ideology affected the lives of the common people.
I would definitely recommend this book to anyone.
And, "red azalea" has the added bonus of being quite a wonderful, yet bittersweet, lesbian romance.
Min writes an honest memoir of coming-of-age through Mao's cultural revolution.
I was going to write bluntly honest, but decided that blunt described the memoir itself.
Her sentence structure is short and punchy.
She tells it as it was.
She bares her emotions, rubbed raw by injustice and oppression.
Nearly everyone is broken by Mao's machine.I found her stories of farm labor interesting.
Her relationship with Yan surprised me - in its innocence and path.
But this was a memoir, and it was true.
The summary of how she ended up in the states was also blunt.
Anchee Min grew up during China's Cultural Revolution, and she has an interesting story to tell about growing up as an excellent student, being sent to the country to work as a communal farm laborer to fill her family's peasant quota, and then being selected to receive acting lessons. I have two main gripes about the book: her prose is extremely choppy, which was very distracting to me, and she dwelt at length on some parts of her story while barely talking about others. I'm surprised I finished it--I kept hoping it would improve!
I read Red Azalea years ago and only remembered it because of Anchee Min's newly released second memoir The Cooked Seed. Red Azalea, a memoir about her life growing up under the waning years Mao, is definitely a favorite of mine. It's received criticism due to the simplistic language and awkward translation, which I feel is ridiculous as she taught herself English, so of course it's going to read a bit raw. It's definitely a gripping story and deserves a read.
The writing in this book is like this. It's very plain. But not in a Hemingway kind of way. It is awkward to read. It's about growing up during the Communist revolution. The content is somewhat interesting. But I could not get over the writing. Or the attempt at flowery pose. That was just bad. I think others have similar stories to tell. Hopefully with better writing.
