https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/84031.I_Love_Myself_When_I_Am_Laughing_And_Then_Again
Hurston should be required reading in all public schools.
In the dedication, by Alice Walker, she introduces readers to a woman who loved herself and her people and managed to remain true to herself despite having characteristics that others may have seen as hinderances in Hurston's time, such as being black, woman, non-bourgeoisie, and not favoring a likeness to whiteness.Mary Helen Washington's introduction, not far off from Walker's view, paints Hurston as one who is enthralled by the culture of black folks and all their folklore.
Sometimes the real deal just needs to be read. Wish she were more well known.
Good solid book. I learned some things I didn't know about my girl and when you understand a bit of the author you are reading, you receive their work better if you ask me.
(267)*A little war of defense for helpless things was going on inside her.
People ought to have some regard for helpless things.
(278)*"Somebody got to think for women and chillun and chickens and cows.
I god, they sho don't think none theirselves.""I knows uh few things, and womenfolks thinks sometimes too!""Aw naw they don't.
The men cruelly discuss how they would handle the woman is she was their wife, and the reader discovers that her husband won't beat women because it's like stepping on baby chickens.
Zora Neale Hurston is one of the most fascinating people to ever live, and she can prove it. This collection is a great primer. I stupidly lent it to a boy I had a crush on and he never gave it back. Which helps console me having had the crush in the first place, but man... I want my book back.
the title itself warrants five stars. plus it's edited by alice walker. LOVE
The title alone made my heart melt.
What a masterpiece! Part of what makes this collection so close to my heart is its editorial work by Alice Walker. Walker's essay's reflecting on Hurston's life, particularly "Looking for Zora" give the reader a lucky glimpse into the ways one writer influences another. A joy to read, and so so important.
Zora Neale Hurston is my favorite writer! Often people read her fiction when she can only speak through her characters, but don't forget to treat yourself and read some of her essays because her own writing voice is the best!
"A Genius of the South." - Alice Walker (borrowing from Jean Toomer) on our literary ancestor, Zora Neale Hurston.
WHO CAN BEAT THIS TITLE? WHAT HAPPENED TO COMPLEX THOUGHTS!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
Zora's essays are amazing, as are her short stories. Read it all!!!
I read this book many years ago, but I still remember how much I loved it. Highly recommended!
This is a bit of a "revived" edition of Hurston's work along with Alice Walker---both are incredible writers. This book just consists of short stories and essays--excerpts from her books.
Taking my time reading this one. Absorbing every page slowly.
This collection of Zora Neale Hurston's work is divided into 3 parts: autobiography, folklore and reportage; essays and articles; and fiction.
I was most interested in part 1 and part 3 (though I didn't read the excerpts from her novels because I want to give them a go on their own.) I only recently became aware of her work because I'm trying to put together a list of early modernist writers, and I have to say I loved the short stories in this collection, particularly "Sweat" and "the Gilded Six-bits".
She is a great writer, and I love the way she works in the dialogue.
I bought an old, stained paperback copy of this book from a street stand near Washington Square Park and couldn't put it down. I learned a great deal about this important American original who wasn't recognized in her lifetime. Her perspective on her own life and time was clearly divergent from the mainstream. I loved reading her investigations into American Black folklore as well as Caribbean folklore, and hope to find collections of it somewhere. I also now need to read Their Eyes Were Watching God.
This is a beautiful collection of short writings (fiction, folklore, autobiographical) from the author of "Their Eyes Were Watching God." I love Hurston's style and sense of humour in her fiction, and the wonderful way she weaves her own life story in this book. Plus, how could you not love a book with such a great title?
Previously,I had only read Their Eyes Were Watching God. This book is a collection of essays, so far very worth reading. The title alone is compelling. Will post final reaction when I've finished. I had to return it to the library. I will have to check out again, or buy - I was about 2/3 done. It's well worth a read. I liked reading it an essay at a time.
Please, if you want to read one of the great black authors of all time, read some Zora Neale Hurston.Just Re-Read I Love Myself When I Am Laughing. It was already brilliant, but it got even better as I grew a bit older. ;))
Some incredible writing here. A mix of autobiography, folklore, reportage, essays (and these are phenomenal), as well as fiction. A damn shame that an author as important as she was, especially in the 20th century, died in a welfare home and is buried in an unmarked pauper's grave.
The short stories were delightful, especially the Eatonville stories. However, I was disappointed to find that the anthology was mostly excerpts. I would have enjoyed reading more of Ms. Hurston's essays and musings.
Another one that makes you feel...
Love her.
Zora Neale Hurston is my favorite author so all her work is amazing. She was definitely before her time.
I read this book because Alice Walker wrote the prolog and epilog. The author lived an original life. Some of her work written in dialect I find difficult to read.
Don't remember. May have to re-read it.
Love Zora!
I have other anthologies of Hurston, but not with her nonfiction & autobiography. Great reading.
