https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1714864.Arrival_and_Departure
Arrival and Departure is a deeply contemplative novel, though its concerns are too much rooted in the specific questions of mid-Twentieth Century European politics to be of much relevance today. There are some interesting ideas explored around culpability, and cause and effect, but these are not enough to sustain the novel.
Εκεί που τα πάντα του κάποτε θα χαρακτήριζαν την Ελευθερία και τη Δημοκρατική Ηθική, είναι εγκλήματα μαλθακότητας.Μα δεν είναι μόνο μάνα που γεννά εικόνες το βιβλίο, γεννά έντονα συναισθήματα, σκέψεις, ίσως κι ακραία: λαγνεία για μια μικρή Γαλλίδα, συγκίνηση απ’ τα λόγια μιας πρώην φοιτήτριας, μένος ικανό να πλακώσω τη Σόνια στις σφαλιάρες στη σελ.
Γιατί φίλε να τα περάσεις όλα αυτά όταν μπορείς απλά να περάσεις σε μια νέα Ουδετερία που κρώζει ιδανικά στα χαρτιά και πουλά νέον και προπαγάνδα μιας νέας τυποποιημένης τεχνοκρατίας; Ίσως γιατί μέσα στη φρίκη και στην απελπισία μπορεί να γεννηθεί εκείνο το είδος ομορφιάς που είναι για όλους κι όχι για κάποιους.
Suffering a nervous breakdown due to Odette's abrupt departure after a ten-day love-fest, Peter is rehabilitated by Sonia through a rigorous process of psychotherapy, where his ills are related back to the guilt over the death of his brother, a guilt that causes him to throw himself into difficult causes, like fighting wars, and enduring torture.Having rationalized his drives, Peter decides to follow Odette (and Sonia who also leaves for America after Peter’s physical and mental recovery is complete).However, the battle in Peter’s mind, between his ethical belief and taking the easy way out, is still raging, and finally gets the better of him.
An interesting and thought provoking book on choices, moral commitment, the individual's needs vs the "greater" needs and why one may be the person one is.
Peter Slavek escapes from a regime of torture and terror, finds himself in a neutral country while he waits for a visa.
While he waits for first one visa, then the other, he contemplates how his thoughts & ideas formed in early life, how his ideas were/were not altered during the torture he endured, his commitment (or not) to a cause, his ability & willingness to see it through (England) or live a happier life (America).
A bit lackluster when compared to Darkness at Noon. I like the sense of atmosphere Koestler is aiming for, but sometimes it seems hamfisted. I thought this book was a bad translation at first, but it seems it was originally written in English.Darkness at Noon is much better. Go for that.
The third novel of a loosely-related trilogy that explores the conflict between morality and expediency and the ruptures that this conflict brings in the context of one's own nature and ideological standpoint. If you can suppress the urge to toss it aside through some extremely dubious thoughts on sexual consent and seduction, it's a great exploration of a tricky subject. B+.
It is a good bildungsroman in that the hero of the story comes to know the way the world works, where he fits into it, and what his proper actions should be.
The mid-Twentieth Century male illusion that an ideal woman really wants to be raped by a man (so long as he is not too bad looking) and that she will thereafter fall in love with him (but not demand he love her) is on display and shows the author's misogyny, and is too simplistic.
The really good parts are the way the hero plays off the stories of history and literature.
Eventually, after psychoanalysis and a period in a love triangle, the hero escapes neutrality for an alternative to both Communism and Fascism.
Peter blir imidlertid dradd mellom politikk og kjærligheten til Odette og får til slutt et mentalt sammenbrudd som også paralyserer den ene foten hans.
Han begynner å gå i terapi hos Dr. Bolgar, og hun finner "røttene" til Peter's mentale tilstand, en rekke traumatiske hendelser fra hans yngre dager i tillegg til torturen i hjemlandet i løpet av krigens første par år.
Boka viser en god innsikt i den menneskelige psyke og vi får et godt bilde av Peter og de mentale utfordringene som han er blitt og stadig blir utsatt for.Boka handler lite om selve krigen og er mer fokusert på to parallelle dialoger.
Den ene mellom Peter og Dr. Bolgar om hans mentale tilstand.
What an odd book this was.
I gather it is semi-autobiographical, about Koestler's experience as a refugee in the middle of WWII.
The country he lands in as a refugee he calls "Neutralia".
Turns out it was based on portugal where Koestler did actually land.
At any rate, despite it's oddness, it was an interesting portrait of a person in limbo awaiting news of his fate at the hands of the authorities.
Perhaps he did that to try and neutralize any bias from his audience, or to raise the book to a higher plane, but I found it detracted from the potential power of the story.
A fantastic book - about World War II, the Holocaust, and political torture, but also about why we do the things we do. Beautiful, simplistic, occasionally reductive, both specific and allegorical. Here was my favorite quote. "Yes, he submitted with open eyes, more 'in spite of' than 'because of.'...The first time he had set out in ignorance of his reasons; this time he knew them but understood that reasons do not matter so much. They are the shell around the core; and the core remains untouchable, beyond the reach of cause and effect."
I enjoyed the start of the book even though I did not like the disguise the author seemed be so determined to keep up about so many things, like what country they were in . The entire middle of the book seems so unreal to me and the ending anticlimactic . Will try the other book by this author as it got better reviews.
I'm not sure if I read this before or after Last of the Just but I think they're the only books I've read about the Holocaust. In this book we know the hero has survived and is physically well but the book is about the struggle he goes through on the inside.
چاپ اول - 2000 نسخه - مرداد ماه 1347
Kitabın kahramanı Peter'dan çok etkilendim.
Many incisive reflections on ideology. Seems really remarkable for when it was written for its view of fascism. (A bit too Freudian for today.)
متاسفانه به نظرم کتاب خسته کننده ای بود و ریتم جذابی نداشت
1943 was a difficult time to write a novel about the Second World War, especially one set in an imaginary Balkan country. Perhaps the novel was the wrong genre. It's difficult to see why Germany and Britain can't be named as such. Horrific in parts, but the main character's moral problems with himself veer from the scarcely relevant to the obscure.
Not as philosophical as Darkness at Noon, but still compelling.
3.5/5 - Unfocused punches. Bernard and Peter's conversation is of more significance than the psychoanalysis, yet the two spar for attention: themes should waltz together.
