https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/300789.The_Magic_Garden
It's also a quick read.I like what this book has to say about love and what it has to say about boys and girls saving themselves and developing their virtues for the man/woman that they will marry.One part that was a little hard for me to follow was the amount of kisses and hugs.
I wish I knew what my view of it would be if I had grown up differently and lived in a different time....Anyway, this book is a little hard to find, but if you can get your hands on it, give it a read!
I discovered this book quite by accident as a young girl. I was searching through the books on a shelf as a child and found this very old book, missing it's cover. I read it out of boredom since it didn't look very appealing to a 10 yr. old...it became the book that really started my love for reading. I still own that crumbling book and will always cherish it.
"When she went to John Guido and said, 'I have come back to you,' as she had promised, she must go with lips that no other boy's kisses had touched.
She must go as God intended that every woman should go to the man she loves.
A boy and young girl kiss a few times as children.
A young man proposes and he kisses his wife-to-be.
A young girl has no respect for God (this is to show her lack of parental influence) - this is later corrected.
These reports give a complete break-down of everything in the book, so you'll know just how clean it is or isn't.
""The Magic Garden" (1927) was read to me by my mother.
I later read it myself and to my children when they were young.
For myself it was absolutely a "magical" experience.
Gene Stratton-Porter takes you to places that are incredibly beautiful.
"The Magic Garden" is an enchanted place that one does not want to leave.
I can safely say that it is my favorite book of all time.
I have always remembered the main character, Amaryllys, she was my favorite.
This book was also my mother's favorite when she was a little girl.
I have her copy from when she was young.
Apparently I had a higher tolerance for sentimental goo when I last read this book 20 years ago.
Imagine eating approximately 12 Krispy Kreme doughnuts, washing them down with a vat of hot chocolate, and then finishing up with a pan of brownies and you will be approaching the experience of reading this book.
But I'll be $%^ if that manipulative ending didn't make me tear up a little, at least until the nauseating final kiss and final line, "John Guido, I am hungry again!" Now that I'm done with this book, I can go collect my eyeballs from where they have been continually rolling to all four corners of the room.
Contains spoilersAh Gene, my dear, what was shaping up to be a lovey little story that kept me interested and entertained and happy with your writing and fortunately lacking in some of your more preachy/talky stories...why'd you have to ruin it at the end? Had to be fair and give it 3 stars because I really did like most of it, it was really quite charming. But truly, the end was appalling and made me really unhappy.
So beautiful!
They don’t write books like this any more. By which I mean, the years have brought this book from a starting point of ‘sweet and sentimental’ to a contemporary reader’s ‘those were surprisingly odd plot twists.’ I understand why it’s out of print, and I’m glad I read it.
This is one of my favorite books of all time. I have read it over and over through the years. The story of such pure, innocent and selfless love is something that is missing in a lot of current books. Though I enjoy a wide variety of current books, romantic and otherwise, it is nice to go back and read The Magic Garden now and then.
A poor little rich girl runs away from home and meets a poor boy who nonetheless has what she lacks. When her father finds her, he turns his priorities around and devotes himself to his family. She is reunited with the poor boy later on, in an ending that may seem syrupy to many, but if you can suspend your cynicism long enough, it's lovely.
This is classified as a youth book, but I found it a charming and sweet story. The innocence of the children, and the sweet tender love a child has for another. Gene Stratton-Porter wrote this book with Lee Thayer. Sometimes the books of today of an edge that forgets the innocence of a child.
Kinda weird! This book had some redeeming qualities like the ability to paint an exquisite mental picture that you wanted to jump into, and illustrated the power of love. The ending? Let me know how you like it. It didn't seem to fit in with the book.
The Magic Garden is a beautiful story, but quite strange in places...especially with all the kissing.
Gene Stratton Porter never fails to make me laugh and cry. This book was really, really sweet.
Such a lovely story! Enjoyed it a lot!
This book is a lot darker than the title might suggest, but that's about par for the course with Stratton-Porter. More interestingly is the way she uses themes that are still very much a part of books, specifically YA, today - much more hopeful, while still maintaining the basic cruelty of parts of the story.
A leafy love story -just leafy! For forest girls with hungry hearts, this emotional rollercoaster through the green gardens of idealistic romance is worth a read for fans of Stratton Porter's 'Girl of the Limberlost'
I have been sobbing my heart out over this beautiful book for over fifty years. It’s a lovely weekend read of a heart-warming family love story. You’ll love it, too!
The first half of this book was SO GOOD.
(view spoiler)[Why did Amaryllis and John never write to each other?
People got almost everything they wanted, and life proceeded according to plan.And then the end was random and out of the blue!
(view spoiler)[And can I really feel happy for John and Amaryllis when Amaryllis's brother and all his friends have just died?!
It was such a nice, optimistic book up to that point that the sudden tone shift to catastrophe and gloom was jarring - and not in a good way.
This is now thought to be Gene Statton-Porter's last book and it is lovely, almost a child's allegory.
I don't know why I haven't picked up on this sooner, but I as I was reading, "The Magic Garden", there was a statement made by the author that was quite disturbing and I realized as I thought of her other books, seems to be a theme.
I have appreciated Porter's morals and character that she teaches in her books but am disturbed by this latest realization.
As for the story in this book, other than the huge flag of lack of a mother figure, the morals taught in this story are good.
It was pure luck when I found a Hutchinson edition of The Magic Garden.
I'm still trying to Google whether my copy is a 1927 or a 1937 edition.
I love seeing how different the past century was to this century.
The Magic Garden is a sweet, short story (I finished it within 2 to 3 hours) about a young, wealthy girl--unloved and neglected--who runs away and meets an older boy; and both instantly finds love in each other.
I love it to bits!
Amaryllis is smart, well educated but uses it only to make a house beautiful for her true love.
He is also well educated and a virtuoso violinist and gets to go on tours and give concerts.
It gets very preachy with 1926 stiff conduct and moral codes.I did enjoy the first part of the book when Amaryllis was five, rich, abandoned by everyone and desperate to be part of a family who cares.The ending was typical of the time but very disappointing.
This one was well written with a similar style but still a disappointment.

After watching a movie of A Girl of the Limberlost, I thought this author must be amazing.
So I read A Girl of the Limberlost and was enthralled and delighted until the second half of the book which was kind of dull and kind of unnecessary.
Moving on from there I tried The Magic Garden which had a great title reminiscent of The Secret Garden--but was absolutely awful.
Rambling, incoherent, melodramatic, and a great slog of a journey this is not a book I would ever recommend.
A pity because it would have been a really good story.
But it wasn't.
Definitely not my favorite Gene Stratton-Porter story. I think it was meant to be a modern take on a fairy tale. But the flat characters were hard to relate to, and the story was rather preposterous. Buying a love story between a 5-year old girl and a young teen boy is a stretch to begin with, but you throw in how rich she is, how quickly her father's character changes and the out of left field ending, and this feels like a slapped together story from GSP, who is normally a good author.
I love this author but this is not her best book. Usually I like her books because they give a hopeful image of the great possibilities in life. This was such an extremely idealistic picture of love it was impossibile to believe, and therefore did not impart the hope and optimism I have learned to expect from her. The pure motives and unmixed emotions of her characters are so rare as to be unrealistic.
Not my favorite Stratton-Porter, but not a bad little story, either. Five-year-old Amaryllis has grown up spoiled, raised exclusively by servants, without any love. Her divorced parents are absent. By running away, she manages to recapture the attention and love of her father and brother, as well as find true love (at the age of five!). The plot was a little odd to me but it was still a nice story if you can get over the five-year-old falling in love.
This is one of the most pure love stories I have ever read. I love it, looking for a digital copy. My copy is old and moldy but I try to read about every 5 years. ( By the way I am highly allergic to mold so reading it always cost me but OH it is worth it.)This book was written by a pure heart and it infuses and encourages those of the same mind and heart.
This book reads like a fairy tale. I really enjoy the world and people that the Authoress creates. Gene Stratton-Porter creates perfect characters with high moral values and no evident flaws. In her own words, the authoress states that the characters she portrays "create a picture true to ideal life; to the best that good men and good women can do at their level best."
