https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/17926775-stolen-songbird
Actual rating: 3.5 “Hmmm,” the King said, making a face. “I’m not sure this is what we bargained for, boy. We expected the girl to be attractive.”If I hadn’t been so terrified, I would have been insulted.“This is the one.”“Are you certain?” the King asked from his perch on the throne. “She rather smells.” Mother of God. A YA fantasy without insta-love. Without a love triangle. Without a Mary Sue who constantly complains about different she looks and how different she is from everyone else?!It do
Tristan and Cécile are literally forced together for the sake of fulfilling a prophecy that is supposed to save the people of Trollus.
For their mutual survival, and for the cause, Cécile and Tristan must join forces, become reluctant allies, in order to free the people of Trollus.
Mistrust into alliance into friendship into love.Tristan is such a complicated character, his mission and purpose unwavering.
I absolutely adored how Tristan and Cécile come to trust and rely on one another.
It was beautiful seeing them love one another while knowing they come from two different worlds.Trolls cannot lie by nature.
How will Cecile ever know who can be trusted when the monsters wear such pretty disguises?Myth #2: Trolls are stupid.
Cecile must learn to adapt to this world as best she can, but the longer she lives without the curse being broken, the more she becomes expendable - for what use is she to the trolls if she cannot do the one thing she was brought there for?
Cecile comes to learn that trolls have the same capacity for good and evil that humans do.
And yet, a lot of trolls appear pretty misogynistic:
4.5 Very very good!
WOW. wow.I loved this book! Everything about it was captivating. The characters, the world, the magic system. The plot was such a rollercoaster. I am definitely going to read the next book ASAP!
What the fuck is it with me and trolls?!?I can say without a shadow of a doubt that this book is a must-read. Cecile wasn't a MaryJane sissy boohoo but she also wasn't Xena the warrior princess. I liked her character and POV but tbh finishing the book nothing about her character really stuck out at me as being unique to only her. The general writing went for short and shocking which worked really well with Cecile's POV of everything being new and dangerous "The girl rose, and her eyes laches ont
I liked her character and POV but tbh finishing the book nothing about her character really stuck out at me as being unique to only her.
just a sacrastic prick that does exactly the fuck he wants to...except when it comes to Cecile because love.
Dang trolls was all new and interesting compared to more fey shit (hide spoiler)]And OFFFF COURSEEE the book ends on a cliffhanger that leaves you screaming and wanting to know what the fuck happened to Tristan like is he okay or what, can I help him, what exactly is Cecile doing to help this situation, and maybe he should just leave her for me....just saying...
Cecile is stolen and married to Tristan, the prince of the trolls, and a Beauty & the Beast scenario ensues.This book is very YA and reminded me a lot of the stories from the Twilight era, so it's a fun throwback.
But of course there's tons of angst, the prince is a troll yet the main clue he’s not human is he’s so incredibly attractive (and of course smells like soap and steel like any good YA guy), and they’re super in love but can’t be together because of reasons.
•My main reason for loving Cécile, the main character, is that she's got red hair.
Her characterization is a bit like the book in general, that is good, but not special or unique; she doesn't really stand out for anything.
For instance, there is this gigantic disaster that totally happens because our larva of a heroine decided it was just the right moment to come out of her cocoon as a full-grown moron and (view spoiler)[ran away because the Evil Duke told her Tristan was having an affair with another girl.
•As if that were not enough, the previously delicious scheming Tristan is also abandoned by his wits as soon as love blooms.
“I cringed, though; for as much as I did not want to marry a troll, I was just as certain the troll didn’t want to marry me.”  Now, THIS was an unputdownable book! Whoo! If I hadn’t begun this the night before my first day of the autumn term, I would’ve, without a doubt, finished this in one sitting. Having said that, I did read this during every spare moment in between my classes. Thus, I was already a quarter of the way through Hidden Huntress (aka Book #2) before I even got home! :DI’m astou
This book is basically combination of La Belle et la Bête (aka Beauty and the Beast) and Fairest (a girl who isn’t beautiful in looks, but has a beautiful voice instead), with trolls.
In fact, these trolls have magical abilities, cannot lie – although they can twist the truth into a deception –, have a unearthly appearances, are resistant to iron, have a separate King and Queen who rule the Summer and Winter Courts respectively, and can be controlled by their “true names.” Hmmm…does this remind you of any creatures that we’ve seen before in other novels?
This book started out really good- the heroine was exactly what I like: capable, fierce, intelligent, and autonomous. I loved every single bit… till she was bonded to Tristan. Also, just a side note, but I would not compare this to Seraphina. I haven’t read that one again in some time, but it was much better imo, and Graceling was a complete DNF for me. So I suppose I shouldn’t have hoped that this one was going to fare better on my personal enjoyment meter. I’m such a sucker though, I always
Tristan, being the most powerful of all, and being bonded to a human, wants to make sure nobody can use her against him but fails miserably- and it was the stupidest thing ever.
And furthermore- the troll that was used in this instrument of jealousy wasn’t even a bad guy (view spoiler)[she was hopelessly in love with Tristan, yes, but she was also one of his closest friends and she was NOT horrible.
I think this book will be the one that has people wanting to be forgiving enough to let go of certain things, or ones like me who can’t move past them, and just a handful in the middle.
Want to read this fabulous book?  Enter the giveaway on my blog for a SIGNED copy of Stolen Songbird!  Open internationally! Read in February 2014 | 4.5 stars"They aren't ugly. More like beautiful things that have had the misfortune of being broken."Stolen Songbird just might be my favorite novel of the year so far (but it's only February--too early to tell), with its magical setting, beautiful writing, truthful characters and engaging story. This one definitely had some irritating moments, but
More like beautiful things that have had the misfortune of being broken."Stolen Songbird just might be my favorite novel of the year so far (but it's only February--too early to tell), with its magical setting, beautiful writing, truthful characters and engaging story.
She also cared for the citizens of Trollus who were abused/not given what they deserved, despite them being trolls and not humans.At the mention of Trollus and its inhabitants, I immediately think about how much I loved the setting and how authentic it was.
It was nice that each character had a personality and all contributed to the overall story.“Watch your tongue, Tristan,” the Duchesse snapped.
About a human who somehow finds herself in troll land with no escape and is bound to one of them.
- There are a few tropes I like and this book had two of them!
The first is 'enemy-to-lover' and the second is 'bonding of characters'.
I love when two characters are bonded!
- I liked reading about the different types of physical appearance of trolls!
idk I just felt like something was missing.
Like I enjoyed it but it wasn't something that was spectacular.
There was mystery, adventure, romance, action, everything that makes an amazing story.
Yet he has to play his role to his father as the prince and future heir to the kingdom.The overall story and idea of trolls as new and different and I loved every minute of my time reading this story.
The romance didn't overwhelm the story but had a nice pace to it and the fact that Tristan and Cecile hate each other for a good portion of the story was GREAT it added conflict to the characters story themselves which I love.
Jensen4 ''I just fell in love'' starsThe MC, Cécile de Troyes, is the daughter of a singer.
The day before she was supposed to join her mother in the purpose of starting her staining to become a professional singer like her, she was unsuspectingly kidnapped and brought to Trollus, the buried kingdom of trolls.Oh, I loved Cécile.
I don’t really like when an author tries too much to make us love a character by bringing out all their talents and achievements.
I easily classed this new series in my most-promising-new-series-of-2014 shelf.Enjoy!P.-S.: I would like to have the book two please, like now…^ ^Pretty please?
I put this book off for quite a long time based off the description.
Seriously- a book about trolls?
The story, in short, starts off fairly fast paced as Cecile is abducted and taken to Trollus, a spelled city under the mountain where trolls live (and can't leave via a magical curse.) She's said to be the one to break said curse by marriage to the troll prince (Tristan.) Of course, nothing is that easy- and things under the mountain grow complex as Cecile realizes Tristan isn't what he seems and there is much more to Trollus than meets the eye.
WOW. I honestly didn't expect this to capture my heart like it did! There were a couple of little things that made me roll my eyes but overall I LOVED this.
Particularly one who damages glassware.”I loved the general plot line: trolls, girl kidnapped against her will and forced to marry hot bad boy prince, political intrigue, and magic.
I think my favorite thing besides Tristan was the setting –I loved that it was so different, it reminded me of the caves in The Host.I will say I didn’t know where this plot was going.
Still, I will definitely be reading the sequel because there were lots of plot lines unanswered and a big cliffhanger, plus the world of Trollus is so fascinating in itself & I love all of Tristan & Cecile’s dialogue <3
this book.........I wasnt sure what to think of it at first....the first chapter or 2 were like...."what is this nonsense....?" but then I was like "I need this to never freaking end".I loved the characters.
Yep. it wasn't love at first 'line' but it definitely didn't stay that way for long.I dont have much to say, except that this was an excellent book, and I'd been wanting to read it for quite some time before I actually bought it.
I only regret reading it so soon because I have months to wait for the sequel that I really really really need, right this second.
What I loved in Stolen Songbird can be summed up by the sentence above. Indeed, what's better than a book which shows the ability to surprise you?  "I think it is our nature to believe evil always has an ugly face,” he said, ignoring my question. “Beauty is supposed to be good and kind, and to discover it otherwise is like a betrayal of trust. A violation of the nature of things." ✘ What you expect  : Regular Trolls✔  What you get  : WIN! Absolutely not the ugly and stupid creatures Trolls are k
Absolutely not the ugly and stupid creatures Trolls are known to be.Now, I know a big amount of readers were annoyed by the fact that the Trolls aren't like we could expect but come on.
And I'm not complaining because let's face it : I don't ship overly beautiful male-leads but come on : a troll like I used to read about in fantasy would have been an awkward love interest, I must admit, because they are STUPID MORONS, remember.
Actually, she reminds me of Megan from The Iron Fey series, and although I realize that a lot of readers didn't like her, I always thought that her mistakes were understandable and above that, fucking realistic.
RE-READ!!*Still 5 Wonderful Stars* I was terrified. It was not like the terror of running from a wolf, always knowing you can turn and fight. It was not like the sense of drowning, where there is a chance to flee to the surface. From this darkness and this place, there was no escape. I could neither run nor hide, and no one can fight the dark. All there was left for me to do was die. Okaaaaayyyy so.....a book about trolls? Really? I mean, come on. In what way could this possibly be appealing? An
"From your lips I can almost believe it's true."It's quite simple, really...Cecile is stolen from everything she has ever known, dragged 'leagues' downward to the passed over and only rarely mentioned city of Trollus where all the Trolls are trapped because of a curse some witch cast on them a long time ago.
We got to see my favorite thing about any story-I've only said about one hundred times that I love seeing a desperate male lead saving the damsel in distress in the fashion that he could lose his life in exchange-and I haven't gotten to see that in action for a long long time....not in such a dramatic fashion, anyway.
Or overly concerned with her looks or all the silly fripperies with which most YA heroines are sadly affected.A swoon-worthy male lead.Side characters who are actually worth reading about, and who contribute to the plot development.
The world building is a bit imperfect, but who cares.A relationship that builds at the right pace, with the parties actually speaking, interacting and getting to know each other before making gooey eyes.
They don't even do the gooey-eye thing.Oh, and have I already said a swoon-worthy male lead?I have to make a little room for him in my (too crowded) collection of fictional boyfriends.
Without us, who knows what would happen to productivity."I rolled my eyes and climbed out of bed.
Catching the corner of a sheet, I set to making the bed."What are you doing?" Tristian shouted.
"I want you to stay Cecile, but I'm afraid staying will only bring you misery." --- “Being around you was the sweetest torture.
I am afraid of loving you, knowing that someday you will go and leave me here.” The tricky thing about these two, throughout the story, is though they undoubtedly love each other for a large part of the story there is this a wall.
They are awaiting for their chance to break free and reign the world once again in terror...Beauty is supposed to be good and kind, and to discover it otherwise, is like a betrayal of trust.
This girl is Cécile, with dreams and desires, innocent, thrust into the ruthless world of Trolls, where magic and power rules and nothing is at it seems.Well-constructed, fast and intriguing this story has so much potential that blew my mind!
Romance, certainly and passion, less politics, more magic and action.
I liked the world-building, with touches of Fae mythology and how the story progressed made sense.
So this is what a book hangover feels like...
I stumbled upon this book because of Regan from Peruse Project.
I added this book to read eight months ago and I've been kicking myself for the last three days for not picking it up sooner.
I had to force myself to put this book down a few times in order to savour every piece of it.
I need all the books immediately!
I don't think I've been this invested in a books plot, characters, or world building since Harry Potter!
It definitely had a few flaws but, for the most part, the characters were likeable and the world was a fun one.
I did feel like the ending was a little weak but up until then the whole story had been fun and engaging.
All in all this was a fun YA fantasy romance and I'll definitely be reading the sequel.Rating: 3.5 stars I'm rounding up to 4 stars as this was quite engaging.
The other bits were read by Eric Michael Summerer, who did the few bits of the book from Tristan's POV and I feel like he was also a good narrator.
"Sometimes, one must do the unthinkable" Welcome to Trollus!!When I think of Trolls, I think of small green creatures with pointy ears, yellow eyes, and warts. Well that's not the case in Trollus. Here we have beautiful women trolls who could give our beauty queens a run for their crowns. We have half bloods who look like your average Joe humans. We have tall, dark and handsome princes. But there are also evil kings set out to break curses, and trolls who have their eyes set on the crown for th
But there are also evil kings set out to break curses, and trolls who have their eyes set on the crown for their own evil plots.
And this is just the beginning.Cecile is kidnapped and thrown into this world with no knowledge that it even existed before she arrives and is to be wed to the crowned prince.
Until other trolls and their dastardly plots come to play, then Cecile must be clever if she is going to survive and one day escape.
I felt like I was a part of Trollus, a little halfblood working in the mines or a servant helping Cecile.
I said in my goodreads progress while I was reading this book, that "STOLEN SONGBIRD makes me remember why I love fantasy so much." And it does!
I got 3 Likes from 3 different people that read STOLEN SONGBIRD that agreed with that above statement wholeheartedly.
It felt like STOLEN SONGBIRD had magic within it's pages.
And I am SO happy it did!(Okay, I know I might sound like a nutball, but come on, we've all have that one (or Many) special books that just hits us full force with all its power.
That is until the Troll prince Tristan comes into her life and changes everything she once thought about Trollus and their people.
Following our main character Cecil, who is kidnapped and sold to the troll king to be married off to the prince of Trollus in order to break a spell that was placed on the town 500 years ago by a witch.
Everyone thinks that the kingdom has failed, and they hate Cecil (because who likes humans anyway, right?) but, the entire town is asked to wait and see if maybe it just needs to take time.
WHAT THE HELL. I KNEW IT. I KNEW IT!!! UGGGGGGGGGH. WHY MUST YOU DO THIS TRISTAN???? WHY? :(OH MY GODS. I AM JUST SO HAPPY TO HAVE THE SEQUEL RIGHT NOW.I LOVED THIS BOOK IF THAT'S NOT YET CLEAR. Thank you book. I think I had a reading slump for like 2 days. (Was that even considered a reading slump?)A more coherent review to follow.
Wonderful!!!
Yes...my new book boyfriend is, in fact, a troll...  “They aren't ugly...more like beautiful things that have had the misfortune of being broken.”  I'm that person that reads the blurb for almost every unknown book I see along my feed. Therefore, I do have the talent of recognizing most books and what they are about. Let me tell you...it is very rare I ever come across a book with trolls. No...not trolls as the side characters, or the big scary monster our main characters have to defeat to accom
Yes...my new book boyfriend is, in fact, a troll...
Maybe it was the originality of the story, maybe it was the juicy enemies to lovers trope, or maybe I just haven't read a really good guilty pleasure young adult novel in a long time.While this book does have its originality, it also has the whole 'girl gets kidnapped and is thrust into a completely new world' trope going on.
This is where she learns an old witch's curse has kept all the trolls captive beneath a mountain for over five hundred years.
