https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/17061.Coraline
My most recent experience of the book was listening to it with my little boy on a long car ride.
"His name is Neil Gaiman." "Do you have his phone number?" he asked."No," I said."Do you know where he lives?""I do," I said."Are you his friend?"That brought me up short.
I'm proud that my boy knows I write books.
"You should tell him he *sure* knows how to write a scary story...."* * *So there you go.
You don't really need me to tell you how I feel about one of Gaiman's books at this point.
Coraline is a short but delightfully dark and creepy book that just happens to feature one of my absolute favorite characters.  Is it wrong that I want to be Coraline's best friend???   “Because,' she said, 'when you're scared but you still do it anyway, that's brave.”   Coraline is clever, quirky, curious and adventurous, brave and determined, independent, stubborn to no end, a bit reckless and not scared of danger. She will NEVER leave any mysterious doors locked and uninvestigated.   In short
Coraline is a short but delightfully dark and creepy book that just happens to feature one of my absolute favorite characters.
Coraline is clever, quirky, curious and adventurous, brave and determined, independent, stubborn to no end, a bit reckless and not scared of danger.
we could be friends, you know," said Coraline."We COULD be rare specimens of an exotic breed of African dancing elephants," said the cat.
-----------The language of the book is simple and sparing, and fits the story perfectly.
Coraline is one of the books that are just meant to be read aloud.
I want to consider the “other mother” and her story.
The third speaks in a form of Shakespearean English, which I took for proof of a victim many years previous.
But one thing remains an absolute certainty to my mind; something terrible happened to the “other mother” a long time ago, something awful that drove her into the deepest depths of despair and as a result she clings to the essence of life: love.
But I’m not sure how much of this we can actually consider.
What do you think?Is the “other mother” a villain or is she simply a misunderstood victim of fate?
(A-) 82% | Very GoodNotes: A genuinely disturbing and creepy story with vivid imagery, it’s well-rounded and goes at a perfect pace and length.
3.5/5"When you're scared but you still do it anyway, that's brave."I think this would have been one of my favorite books if I read it as a child, but unfortunately 20-something me felt like it was lacking.
I went into this with too high of expectations because the movie gave me nightmares after I saw it in theaters.
Basically, I pretty much expected this to be a novelization of the movie - that was not the case.
But all in all, if you're looking for a spooky book that only will take you a couple of hours to read - this is it!
I was such a cowardly kid that I never managed to read more than the blurb on the backNow that I've finally summoned the courage to give it a try - I wish I read it sooner.  I love this novel.  Unlike Gaiman's fiction for adults, every sentence, every word has its purpose. And finally, Gaiman does not throw in some weird sex scene.  Can I get a hallelujah?  One especially dull and rainy day traps young Coraline inside the new house. Her parents are busy and she must entertain herself. She finds
I was such a cowardly kid that I never managed to read more than the blurb on the backNow that I've finally summoned the courage to give it a try - I wish I read it sooner.
And finally, Gaiman does not throw in some weird sex scene.
Finally, the other-mother plays her hand.
She wants Coraline all to herself.
With a growing sense of dread, Coraline finds the way back locked and her chances of escaping becoming ever slimmer...All the while, the other-mother promises how wonderful and lovely living with her will be...forever...
Coraline herself is brave and kind and courageous.
I saw the film before I read the book, which is not how I like to do things, as it can often be like taping a hockey game and having someone tell you the final score before you've had a chance to see the game for yourself.
We see the characters through the eyes of a little girl who is remarkably intelligent and yet doesn't understand everything the adults do or say.
Gaiman knows cats well; they appear elsewhere in his works.
And this one is the genuine article: superior, stand-offish, wilful, easily offended, and yet a true friend.Gaiman makes this a children's book that will appeal to adults as well.
My summary:The story begins with Coraline, a young girl who has just moved into a new house with her parents which has been broken up into different apartments with neighbors.
Her neighbors have warned her previously, but curious Coraline enters the door into a new world and finds that the house looks much like her own.
Now Coraline must figure how to get her parents back from the other mother.My thoughts on the book:I finally read this with my kids after seeing the movie a hundred times.
Coraline is intelligent, inquisitive, slightly contrary, hates being bored, and wishes her parents paid her more attention, and didn’t feed her “recipes”.
I only wish it had been published a decade ago, so I could have read when my son was YYA.Learning OutcomesThis isn’t a remotely teachy or preachy book, but Coraline learns a lot about life, familial love, and especially herself.
Coraline, not Caroline, thank you, the little girl who was small for her age, and found herself in darkest danger was the subject of Neil Gaiman’s 2002 publication, which was in Gaiman’s own words “refreshingly creepy.”Gaiman said that he started writing the book for his young daughter Holly around the time they moved to America but, unintentionally, wrote it very slowly, “one word at a time” and thus stretched out the project for years.
Refreshingly creepy is maybe the best way to describe this young adult work that also has darker elements, references to myth and the occult that will probably fly over the heads of younger readers.
Edit : I'm sorry guys, I won't be able to post the review today because it's already midnight and I was busy :( REVIEW TO COME TOMORROW.
'She left us here' said one of the voices.
'she stole our hearts, and she stole our souls, and she took our lives away, and she left us here, and she forgot about us in the dark.'  This is a story about a girl named Coraline Jones, She and her parents move to a new house but they don't own all of the house.
They just own part of it and they also have neighbors
They are Miss Spink, Miss Forcible and an old man with big moustache but one day the old man says he has a message for Coraline from the mice.
The message is Don't go through the door  and when Coraline visites Miss Spink and Miss Forcible's house, they read Coraline's tea leaves and they say she is in danger.
and what do Miss Spink and Miss Forcible mean when they say she is in danger when they see her tea leaves?
I wasn't born as a reader, so I didn't read the book first before watching the movie :( and I loved it so much!
This is the perfect Halloween read! It's creepy, eerie, and beautifully written. Now I want to rewatch the movie! I loved it :D
It is astonishing just how much of what we are can be tied to the beds we wake up in in the morning, and it is astonishing how fragile that can be.This is like Stephen King's It re-written for children.I adore Stephen King, obviously, and I highly enjoyed this creepy and horrifying children's book that Gaiman has written.Coraline is a little girl who is rather introverted.
Like very tiny dogs and with much less upkeep and expense.Little things in the book I love.
For instance, Coraline hates "real food" (what she calls 'recipes') and instead lives on stuff like microwaved frozen pizza and microwaved frozen French fries.
This was so creepy, I loved it.Full review to come.
Coraline is a ravishingly wonderful tale of a brave girl confronting ghastly demons. Opening new doors, she builds an alternate house of monstrous reality, of fear draping the walls, of greed burying love. And now she has to redefine her rusty, curious world. It is astonishing just how much of what we are can be tied to the beds we wake up in in the morning, and it is astonishing how fragile that can be. Coraline  charmingly reflects the fears and trials all children experience. The power of evi
Coraline is a ravishingly wonderful tale of a brave girl confronting ghastly demons.
Opening new doors, she builds an alternate house of monstrous reality, of fear draping the walls, of greed burying love.
And now she has to redefine her rusty, curious world.
It is astonishing just how much of what we are can be tied to the beds we wake up in in the morning, and it is astonishing how fragile that can be.
Coraline  charmingly reflects the fears and trials all children experience.
Dissatisfied with her given role, Coraline revolts against both societal norms and against authority.
A quick read that I blitzed through in a couple of hours, but of course it being Gaiman it left behind chills and the fears so prominent in childhood.
One with two elderly ladies next door and a crazy old man upstairs, not to mention the black cat who seems to belong to no one.
What’s with the door that opens to a brick wall?
What Coraline discovers behind the door is the worst of nightmares for a child.
And when this villain threatens her family Coraline must act to protect those she loves.
Creepy and imaginative, I’m glad I didn’t read this as a child!
Click here to watch a video review of this book on my channel, From Beginning to Bookend.
Who doesn’t like a freaky middle-grade book to snack on (at nighttime) ever once and a while?
(Plus, writing research for middle-grade books.
It probably mentions about 3 or 4 times how Coraline is actually feeling.
Who can manage to sound freaky and creepy without actually telling the reader to be creeped?
The story line is simple and delicious.
Coraline?
(Then I banished it.)It IS a creepy book, but in such a simple way that it packs a punch before you realize it.
Button eyes are kind of horrific, in the best possible way.
I wouldn’t say the book was over-the-top at all though.
Deliciously creepy.
Coraline Jones and her parents move into an old house that has been divided into flats.
The flat beside Coraline's is unoccupied.
کورالاین روزها دوروبر خانه می‌گردد، و به همسایه‌ ها سر می‌زند.
در خانه­ ی آن‌ها دری وجود دارد، که رو به دیوار باز می‌شود.
روزی کورالاین که در خانه تنهاست، در رو به دیوار را باز می‌کند، و با راهرویی روبرو می‌شود.
This book definitely confirms that I was right about that.Coraline is a young girl who loves to explore and finds a locked door in her house.
I feel like this could be a fun book to read with my son around Halloween.I also love how smart Coraline was in the end.
I don't think Coraline's actual age is ever revealed in this book, but either way she's young enough to make that an impressive statement.I really liked this book, and would recommend it.
This book wasn't terrifying or anything like that, but for a children's book I was impressed with how much I actually felt scared for Coraline being all alone in this strange world.
“It is astonishing just how much of what we are can be tied to the bed we wake up in in the morning and it is astonishing how fragile that can be.”In their new house, Coraline opens a door that leads to an other world with her other mother and other father, where things seem a little too good to be true...First of all, where the hell does Gaiman get off thinking this book is acceptable for children?!
Deliciously disturbing, a modern fairytale with a surrealistic feel.
So unless you figure you’ve outgrown fairytales (which is kind of a shame) what’s not to like about it?Nasty flu & a crummy day at work had me pretty well pissed off at the world.
Snuggled under a pile of blankets, suitable ambience provided by a fierce rainstorm slashing at my windowpane I felt like I was ten again.
Finished in a couple of hours,when I drifted off to sleep I was feeling almost human.
I’m betting this will earn its place among classics like Hansel & Gretel, Alice In Wonderland & Pinocchio.
Creepy, creepy, creepy. This book made me feel like I'd just awoken from a disturbing dream I couldn't shake, but couldn't quite remember, either. And the movie looks terrifying.
Neil Gaiman weaves a chillingly beautiful story just as a spider weaves her immaculate web. *Poker face*This is the tale of young Coraline Jones who moves to her new house with her parents. She is a lively little child who loves to explore and play around. But her parents are very busy and hardly have time to play with her. So, life is pretty much boring for the young lady.But then, she finds a door. *Ooh, ooh, does it leads to another world filled with talking animals and wonderful characters?*
*Poker face*This is the tale of young Coraline Jones who moves to her new house with her parents.
But her parents are very busy and hardly have time to play with her.
this is NOTHING like Wonderland or Narnia!Neil Gaiman has crafted an excellent story which manages to be creepy, inspiring, funny, smart and imaginative all at the same time.
Actually, creepiness kind of stands out.And you will love Coraline Jones when you meet her in this book, believe me!---------------------Cat philosophyCats don't have names.
Cats know exactly who they are, so they don't need names.Weirdly enough, this made total sense to me!
this book makes me really cross i missed the 3d movie when it was out.
i think if i had read this as a young girl, it would be one of my favorite books ever.
when i was little, my brother would hide under my bed until after i was just drifting off to sleep, and then jump out to scare me.
and i want to be scared.
a book, a movie, i dont care.
(just dont hide under my bed - lets stick to books or movies, yeah?)this will be my preparation for halloween mental gathering.
It has minor similarities to about a hundred books to be found over the ages, both children's and adult, but nothing strong enough to be called an influence (at least, not one that wears its heart on its sleeve).
But when she goes through, she finds a weird alternate universe where her parents have buttons for eyes, things are interesting, and the world ends beyond the garden...Gaiman mentions in an interview after the book (found only in the ebook edition) that Coraline is usually seen by children as an adventure story, by adults as a horror novel.
actual rating: 3.5 stars Neil Gaiman really did some witchcraft and created the perfect book for halloween, huh?? he really Did That  Coraline is the type of horror that i like. it's that eery, uncomfortable, subtle kind of tension that i enjoy, the kind that has you feeling slightly uneasy. if i had read this as a child, i probably would've never opened a door i weren't supposed to open ever again. i really liked the characters in this. even though i feel like they weren't very complex (as it o
even though i feel like they weren't very complex (as it often is with fairytale-esque stories, the characters are almost all just perfunctory), i did enjoy following them along in this story.
sarcastic asshole cats that follow the main character everywhere and do nothing but make snide comments on everything???
all throughout the book i was convinced coraline was a crazy bitch but at the very end she refused to eat the pineapple on the pizza and i was like....
i might even want to be her friend.mayhaps this will become an annual read for me, just because i feel like it really doesn't get more perfect in terms of halloween themed books.
Sada se već slabo sećam sna, ali znam da je u njemu bilo i rupe, i zeca, i one strašne Kraljice...Poprilično godina kasnije uživala sam u mračnoj avanturi jedne druge devojčice.
Pošto sam sada starija, zrelija (mada se mnogi ne bi složili sa tim) i hrabrija, ovaj put su noćne more izostale, ali je doživljaj bio skoro podjednako upečatljiv.
Kažem "skoro podjednako" jer Alisa je ipak prva ljubav, a Koralina kao lepo vaspitana devojčica mora da zna gde joj mesto i da poštuje starije :)U svakom slučaju, Koralina je još jedna divna bajka za malo stariju decu i odrasle iz buđelara Nila Gejmana.
“Fairy tales are more than true: not because they tell us that dragons exist, but because they tell us that dragons can be beaten.”This was dark and witty and theatrical and Gothic and utterly utterly adorable. It was sometimes hard to remember that this was aimed at a younger audience as the beauty of the writing and the dark turns of the plot completely enveloped me. This is my first Neil Gaiman but I know it won't be the last! Instant fan!
SO glad I got the chance to read this, even if it was for a lame school assignment. I need to pick up more books by Neil Gaiman, he's such a fantastic writer. This story was both whimsical and dark and I had such a time reading it!
