https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/10009.Homo_Faber
For globe-trotting Walter Faber this is a conflict that is never really resolved, through the misadventures of a strange semi mid-life crisis, Frisch writes a poignant and sometimes shocking novel as Faber struggles to maintain his previously unwavering belief in technology, whilst human connections both past and present start to send his perfectly controlled existence spiraling out of his control.The narrator, Walter Faber, a Swiss bachelor heading towards fifty, is an analytical, headstrong but somewhat misanthropic individual, who's life is about to seriously land him on the ropes.

The effect is staccato but wonderful; an extreme example here from a virtuoso section set in Havana:My lust for looking.My desire.Vacuum between the loins.I exist now only for shoeshine boys!The pimps.The ice-cream vendors.Their vehicle: a combination of old pram and mobile canteen added to half a bicycle, a baldachin with rusty curtains; a carbide lamp; all around, the green twilight dotted with their flared skirts.The lilac moon.Often you are forced to read between the lines to understand what is really going on, and sometimes this reaches such a pitch that one has the impression of having experienced a scene twice.
Which books did it remind you of, in your vast reading experience?""Well," says Manfred after pretending to think, "It reminded me of Sofies Welt.""Incredible!" I reply and roll my eyes.
He really does resent sharing my body at times like this."Alright," I say "Why did it remind you of Jostein Gaarder?" "The key to the book is Hanna's speech on page 140," says Manfred.
"Man is not obliged to learn the language of the subjugated class; in contrast, and although it does not help her, woman is obliged to learn the language of her master, a language which always puts her in the wrong.""Why is that the key to the book?" I want to know."Walter speaks the fragmented language of the ruling male class," says Manfred.
A Swiss Heart of DarknessAn engineer with an engineering outlook on life, the eponymous Homo (Walter) Faber believes in the randomness of existence.
“Technology instead of mysticism,” is how he puts it.That there should be any sort of continuity between physical matter and emotional spirit is not a consideration for Walter.
Equally improbably, Walter encounters the daughter on his voyage home to Europe.Faber‘s monadic existence he finds not in the least unpleasant.
The order of his existence is torn apart, its logic made nonsensical.The possibility that Walter has had sex with his daughter is the ultimate dislocation.
Now I want to seize everybody in turn by the lapels and say 'read this book and then read it again!'.Unusually I know when I had the book for the first time, the Easter of 1995, there's an inscription in my Mother's handwriting on a flyleaf with that date.
You can't read the same book twice since you never can be the same reader.The narrator doesn't see things that way.
I get a good sense of the main character, the time and his way of life.
What does man fabricate if not his own tragedy.Rereading there is a sudden sharpness in the descriptions of places.
The title, Homo Faber, is a play on words that could be seen to bear multiple meanings.
The second meaning is simply the direct identification of the protagonist: Homo Faber; or, Faber, the man, who is prototypically male, yet whose experience and condition is no greater than that of any ordinary man.
I see a third meaning, which is that of a taxonomic designation - Homo Faber, as contrasted with Homo Sapiens.
Unfortunately to say any more would be to spoil the story - the gradual revelation of its enormity, and the questions around the complicity of the characters represent the greatest pleasure this book has to offer.
“Nothing is harder than to accept oneself." - Max Frisch. Walter Faber is a paradigm of collective identity v/s self-identity, rationality v/s irrationality and providence v/s concurrence; counter positioning free will. You cannot find yourself anywhere except in yourself. Frisch portrays the contradictory worlds of methodical reasonableness and the quandary of being a mortal. Walter believes in what he nurtures. As a technologist working for UNESCO, he lives in the present and connects with th
Frisch toys with the post-modernism attitude towards technology suggesting that even though technology can make life easier it cannot define the workings of human connections.
(Jean Paul Sartre; Nausea)The underplayed incestuous approach and the irony in Walter’s analysis on abortion as a logical outcome in a civilization, shows that even though ‘man plans’ the absurdity of fate makes technology a pitiable surrogate of human identity.
Ultimately, Walter’s trepidation of death and emancipation from his social identity as an engineer, proves that “Man the Maker” relates to how an individual classifies oneself from a hollow world where one cannot suffer nothing.
This book is required reading in many schools in Germany.
But have forgotten all about it.Homo Faber is Walter Faber.
Constructs his world around technology.
To deploy technology to people who are already quite happy without it.
A single relationship (Hanna); breaks up.
Hanna goes to Walter’s friend (doctor) to not get their (Walter: her) child.
Faber meets a young woman on a voyage, calls her Sabeth because Elizabeth he does not like.
He does not recognize Hanna in Sabeth, and not himself.
Glad I read it now that I’m older than Faber (just barely).
Lisede Almancadan okuduğum bir kitaptı.
Vakti zamanında "Çarpık Sevda" diye yanıltıcı bir başlıkla yayınlanmıştı ve Almancası yeterli olmayanlar bu versiyon sayesinde sınavı geçebilmişlerdi.
Şimdi 60'lı yıllardan kalma bir çeviri ile Sezer Duru'nun yetkin çevirisiyle ve kırk yaş olgunluğuyla tekrar okudum.
Gelelim kitaba, kadere inanmayan-yaşadığı her şeyi matematiksel bir rastlantıya bağlayan Walter Fber (ki eski, belki de hayatının ilk ve son aşkı Hanna tarafından "Homo Faber", yani teknik insan olarak adlandırılıyor) için inanmadığı kader ağlarını örüyor.
21 sene evvel bağlantısını kaybettiği (bence kaybetmek istediği) arkadaşı Joachim'in kardeşi ile uçakta yan yana geliyor ve sonrasında Joachim'in naaşını bizzat buluyor.
Kitabın "Voyager" bir film uyarlaması da var, Sam Sheppard Faber rolünde.

He is the protagonist and we can witness through his eyes, what this particular European, specifically a Swiss, squeezes out of his life on this earth, directly after World War Two.Death plays a big part in living, as Frisch is aware, and he uses it as a mechanism for human interaction and man-made peccadillos, and how we futilely plan or attempt to manipulate the present and/or the denouement.I am not trying to be opaque but there is so much to enjoy here, and I do not want to reveal it all.
A plane crash, a chance meeting with the brother of an old friend, a visit to the friend in central america, whose body they discover at his home.
Faber, a middle aged man, meets a 20 year old woman and they hit it off and continue to travel together and an affair develops.
This is man vs machine; but as the narrator, Mr Faber gives the plot away as you go along, it's a bit like watching a car crash in slow motion!
Faber realises he cannot control his environment as life continues to conspire against him.
A novel of slowing down and being left behind by the world and technology, and the imprisonment that that world might bring.
Coincidences, synchronicity--people read meanings from them, even the atheists or those who believe in the pure randomness of the world.An author who can create a world, and horrify you with it (e.g., Elias Canetti in "Auto da Fe"), deserves the highest praise.
Through his character-narrator, Walter Faber, Max Frisch has created a world completely devoid of meaning.
Walter Faber, with his mesmerizing staccato prose (like even his words don't want to socialize with each other lest, inadvertently, they would create meaning), will not and cannot see any possible meaning in even the most astounding events, including serial ones, and just proceeds to narrate them matter-of-factly.
Walter Faber, at best, only looks annoyed by them.
this is one of books that have influenced me the most.
The story of this man destined to become a robot, ignoring his emotions, trying to avoid suffering and depending always on logic and system, is a story of people in the 20th century.
What we know now about emotional intelligence is what Max Faber lacks.
If someone is interested in the depths and miseries of the human soul, he should read this book.
Morover the language is so clear and direct, he doesn't need a very baroque language to express the horror mr faber is feeling.
In trying to make sense of Homo Faber, I feel as ill-equipped to do so as the other reviews lead me to believe Walter Faber as he exists at the start of the novel would be if you asked him to explain the meaning of life and human existence.
to demonstrate that he's not whimsical?What was the point of Walter's finding the hanged old friend?
Or are we supposed to believe Hanna's notion that Walter was attracted to Sabeth because of who she was?What was the point of the moping about in Cuba?
i truly hate this book! i had to read it in class once and create a frikking presentation. my mood drops several degrees when only thinking about this crappy book!HIGHLY NOT RECOMMENDED
How moving... How..., shockingly...surprisingly so
What a double coincidence!I’m not going to spoil the story, but basically Faber keeps on travelling from one place to another while his repressed past gradually catches up with him.
His most famous work is Homo Faber, where a man thinks he is better in control of his life thanks to technology, but in fact many unexpected events still occur, destiny cannot be control and some things end tragically.
I just think that the author’s point didn’t come across well in this story, especially for people who are not familiar with the author’s life.
2 kere 2'nin 4 ettiği bir dünyada yaşarken bir anda geçmişi ile yüzleşmek durumunda kalan Mr. Faber'in hikayesi Homo Faber.
Kimi zaman ne yaptığı anlaşılmıyor, kimi zaman ise kendi mantığına göre en iyisini yapıyor.
Garip bir karakter, 'teknik adam' tabiri üzerine cuk oturuyor.
Öte yandan Amerikan toplumu ve Amerikanvari yaşam, kürtaj, yalnızlaşma gibi konulardaki düşünceleriyle potansiyel bir sosyolog.Ama karakter hakkında öyle bir sıkıntı var ki, kitap bittiğinde hala anlayamamıştım: Kendi öz kızı olduğunu düşündüğü Sabeth'e karşı duyguları babacan mıydı, yoksa gerçekten ona aşık mıydı?
Sanırım bunu anlamak için satır aralarını okumak gerek.
Not: Kitabın çevirisi motomot çeviri gibiydi.
Kısacası, çeviri gözden geçirilmeli.
Една от книгите, които ме е формирала като човек. Оттам и петте звезди. Любимата ми реплика за тежки състояния, "Не плача. Просто ми се иска да ме няма." е от "Хомо Фабер". Но книгата не е тежка. Не е тъжна, не е весела. Тя е полиедърна, многогранна, дълбока и дълбаеща. Една от книгите за спасяване на самотен остров.
Η ροή και το ύφος της αφήγησης συμβαδίζει σε όλη την έκταση του βιβλίου με τον τρόπο σκέψης και την αντιμετώπιση του κόσμου μέσα από τη ματιά του πρωταγωνιστή. Ο Φάμπερ διαγράφει μια πορεία από τον ορθολογισμό και την επίπεδη αντίληψη των πραγμάτων έως τον έντονο συναισθηματισμό και την ενσυναίσθηση και -αναπόφευκτα- στην τελική συντριβή.
Der anthropologische Ansatz des homo faber, des schaffenden Menschen, ist ein Beispiel für die Moderne und damit eigentlich zu meinen Lebzeiten, in der nach Bauman liquiden Postmoderne bereits nicht mehr aktuell.
Durch diese Assoziation der Archäologie ergibt sich für mich erstmals ein Hinweis auf die Vor-Moderne und den Topos Griechenland, da Hanna Piper als Archäologin wie Schliemann in Griechenland tätig ist, genauer gesagt in Athen, der Wiege der Demokratie.
Nazi-Deutschland spielt in diesem Konstrukt eine wichtige Rolle, da es einerseits einen Höhepunkt und Bruch darstellt, andererseits sich die Geschichte der Kolonialisierung sich in Gestalt des Herbert Hencke als Bruder des stark mit Nazi-Deutschland verbundenen Joachim Hencke die Zeit nach dem Krieg, das Wirtschaftswunder symbolisiert.
When he told me that it was from one of the most famous Swiss authors and that it would be interesting to read his 1950's take on Switzerland, México and the US (all places I've lived) as well as some of the same psychological, philosophical and cultural subjects I had broached in my own book, I became enticed.
After all, I live in Switzerland - the least I could do is read a national icon's most famous book.All I can say is wow, I had no idea.
Frisch's novel is a classic for a reason, and not a word is wasted.
“There aren't any prehistoric monsters any more.
Why should I imagine them?
I'm sorry, but I don't see any stone angels either; nor demons; I see what I see – the usual shapes due to erosion and also my long shadow on the sand, but no ghosts.”Walter Faber is a pragmatist and he lives as if he is blown by the wind – he is a ship without an anchor and there is no haven for him in the sea of life and there is no place he can call his own.
I had to read this for school and it was better than all the other books I've read for school. I actually enjoyed it and it was really quick and easy to read.
"She thought it stupid of a woman to want to be understood by a man; the man (said Hanna) wants the woman to be a mystery, so that he can be inspired and excited by his own incomprehension.
The man hears only himself, according to Hanna, therefore the life of a woman who wants to be understood by a man must inevitably be ruined.
According to Hanna.
The man sees himself as master of the world and the woman only as his mirror.
Um Gottes Willen. Endlich geschafft. Meiner Meinung nach völlig überbewertet. Ein 200 Seiten langes blablablablablablabla. Wenn man die Namen Hanna und Sabeth aus dem Buch löschen würde, wär es wahrscheinlich nur 50 Seiten lang. Sabeth macht dies, Sabeth macht das, Hanna will weg aus Griechenland, Hanna will doch in Athen bleiben.... Bla bla bla.
Tragedy=OedipusHomo=Faber
