https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/296776.Life_Lessons
Contains simple yet deep lessons we have to learn in our time.
The book doesn't contain a special formula or way of thinking that will provide you with life without pain or sickness, but it does put a whole new perspective on suffering, one that can help you endure the storms that are a normal part of your life, accept what you can't change, and change what you can.
I love the style of the book, the writing is simple, yet profound, and the lessons are interwind with author's personal stories about their patients, people they knew, themselves.
A friend of mine with cancer gave me this book, and it encompasses many of the things I've tried to learn from her. Some people don't get to the best part of their lives until the end, and the authors give us many anecdotes and insights about why that is. Sometimes hell is other people, and our perceptions, but this book shows that the opposite is also true.
This book has changed my life! No other book has had such a profound effect on me. All of life's most important lessons are explained and validated by personal experiences of the authors or others.
Easily the best non-fiction book I have ever read.
Just like a chapter book, page by page.
I have no doubt I will read this book a number of times as it is a book not to be read so much as studied, committed to memory and applied.
It also gave me the knowledge that all is as it should be, so that I may let him go, while still looking forward to the time when we will be together again.
This book is a gift!
This is the first book written by Elisabeth Kübler-Ross that I read, and I am delighted with it.
The book is also written by David Kessler, and both give us a beautiful lecture about life.
I honestly think that not many of us find true joy in living and life itself.
And if anyone understands what life is all about its the dying.
They also give us a good lesson in relationships, love, happiness, and forgiveness among other aspects of life.
Basically life is the school and those are the lessons we are here to learn and master.
Definitely a good read.
Las lecciones de vida que nos muestras Elisabeth y David creo que a todos nos pueden ayduar en cierto momento.Pero me pareció muy repetido todo, no tengo nada en contra de los libros motivacionales, pero este me pareció eterno...
A beautiful book with interesting insights. Nothing unforeseen, but good reminders about what it really means to live a full and meaningful life with no regrets.
I find the advice to range for good to something I'd find at a 12 step meeting.
I don't mean to insult 12 step meetings, but they are filled with average folk trying to do better, and there is a belief in collective wisdom, which isn't always justified.
And, I think there is often contrary advice without trying to distinguish when each is appropriate.
Perhaps I am jaded, so others may find this book profound.
I also really can't stand is trying to put meaning on the death of a child, I think it dishonors the dead child.
It is somewhat interesting to read about the perspective of dying people.It is very disturbing to read about it when the author is full of presumptions (you could call it lessons), in other words common sense psychological truths on life. I suppose most people would agree with it so would not be bothered by it.But these ideas such as we humans all have the same value, you must first love yourself before you can love someone else I don't buy unless it is explained. You may not be capable of expla
It is somewhat interesting to read about the perspective of dying people.It is very disturbing to read about it when the author is full of presumptions (you could call it lessons), in other words common sense psychological truths on life.
I suppose most people would agree with it so would not be bothered by it.But these ideas such as ´we humans all have the same value´, ´you must first love yourself before you can love someone else´ I don't buy unless it is explained.
You may not be capable of explaining it, but then at least mention that.
My shelves say it all. I found this so boring, I couldn't bear to finish it. The voice of the male author was tedious and pretentious in the extreme. It's as though he wanted to capitalize on his 'friendship' with Kubler-Ross when she was in bed and couldn't escape his attentions, when she had alienated so many people. Notice he puts her name first, because he couldn't sell this book without that. Call me cynical, but there are so many books out there that are better.
Konečně kniha z oblasti osobního rozvoje, která mi přišla fakt dobře napsaná a mající hlavu a patu. Je rozdělena na kapitoly, přičemž každá kapitola nám sděluje určitou lekci. Ať už jde o Lekci odpuštění, Lekci hry nebo třeba Lekci lásky. V každé kapitole se autoři střídají a tak nám umožňují nahlédnout na problémy ze dvou pohledů, které se ve finále skvěle doplňují.Kniha mě zase určitým směrem posunula a spoustu věcí, které se mi v životě dějí, vysvětlila. Určitě doporučuju!
Een goede vriendin en tevens vrijwilligster in de palliatieve zorg leende me dit boek toen mijn eigen moeder haar laatste 15 dagen inging, op het moment dat haar nog maar amper 1 dag meer gegund leek.Tijdens gestolen momenten verslond ik pagina na pagina, alsof ik door een onzichtbare kracht bij de hand werd genomen.
De dankbare glimlach op mijn moeders gezicht sprak boekdelen.Een boek dat je leven -én dood- voor altijd zal veranderen.
This was a very enjoyable and well-written book, and one of the last from the pioneer on death and dying research, Elizabeth Kubler-Ross.
I had expected a focus on death and dying, but the title certainly provided a clue as to the actually emphasis - Life Lessons.
By the time Kubler-Ross started writing this back in the late 90's she had suffered a few strokes and was partially paralyzed so she was able to add a great deal of personal reflection to the experience of dying.
Highly recommended reading for anyone interesting in learning about the lessons of death and learning how to live a joyfull and fulfilling life.
📖"Life has storms. Storms always pass." 📖This book was enlightening and so much more. I think it is one of these books you have to come back to multiple times to remember what was being said and, most importantly, what you need to learn at the time you're reading it.
Elisabeth Kubler-Ross dedicated her work and life to understanding and sharing lessons on how we die.
She shares that she was angry and often very ugly to her friends and family.
She mentions that at least 75% of her friends were no longer in her life.
She and her friend David Kessler discuss the lessons they have learned over the years dealing with patients who were dying.
The book has nice reminders about enjoying life more, conquering fear and showing more love for others, as well as many other lessons.
These life lessons, when read with openness, have the power to change the direction of your life. The challenge is to remind yourself of them in daily life.The book offers an invitation to pull up a chair at what seems to be a conversation and sharing of stories between two old friends. What is even more incredible is learning that Kübler-Ross is confined to a wheelchair recovering from multiple strokes when this book was written.Balancing personal stories with that of the dying, this book shares some of the most profound wisdom I’ve read on what truly matters in life.
This is my first time reading a Self-Help book and, actually I couldn't put it down.
It talks about many things I've felt and reading about them from a different perspective than mine was actually quite eye opening.
Many of the things I already knew, yet I don't apply and other I had never thought about but I was able to find them in my self and I'm still trying to find others that are mentioned.
I'm quite happy I read it and I feel like giving Self-Help books a big chance, there are things I feel and I want to explore more and these might help.
This one I actually read becuase MY.
This was a book club selection that was a combination of new age psycho babble and some really simple advice. Readers just have to figure out what's what and how to apply it. There are better books out there like Being Mortal and many devotionals.
Хорошо написанная книга, структурирована по темам (эмоциям). Книга поможет тем, кто испытал потерю или живет рядом с обреченным на смерть человеком, но еще больше поможет встряхнуть заскучавших на жизненном пути.
By times cliche, other times some good reminders
I'm not sure when I read this -- sometime in the past 5 or 6 years, I would imagine. She's a genius.
Read this book, and will never give it away. Taught alot about myself
224This book will change your life.
Your actions and the way you do things won't change,but the way you think and approach life will after reading this book.
This book helps you with your self-awareness so much.
I can leave this life knowing who I am." - p.
38I encourage young adults and over to read this book, and don't be put off by the advice Elizabeth Kubler-Ross and David Kessler give you because it sounds cliche or impossible.
Their advice works - you just have to believe in yourself and that it can change your life first.
I read this book during college when I was going through a rough patch with a friend.
It allowed me to see life in a new light.
I learned that sometimes we forget to value the moments we think have no significance in our life.
As a result, we realize what we had only when its too late.
The anecdotes on life and death force you to think deeper into what truly matters in life.
A lot of the lessons and insights are things we already know but have not put much thought into.
I have forever changed my outlook on life after reading this, for the better.
Though it has some good points, if you have read other Elizabeth Kubler Ross books, you might find this one a bit repetitive. I was hoping for more life lessons, and not expecting so much about the end of life. Yes, it's all connected, but still expected something different. Also, maybe it's just the time that I read it, but I found just a few too many stories of people's experiences. Nevertheless, worth a read, as it's simply written and easy to get through. You will definitely get something from it.
Są książki do których trzeba będzie wrócić, by postudiować je jeszcze raz. To właśnie jedna z nich. Czy to stanowi dostateczną rekomendację?Wielu nie spodobają się odwołania do Boga. Mi to w niczym nie przeszkodziło, pomimo braku wiary.To takie 3,5 gwiazdki zaokrąglone w górę.
It has a treasure of life lessons, concentrated, and part of the mechanisms of the emotions that accompany those lessons. It is not "Dalai Lama level wisdom" but honest and clear lessons to coping with the difficulties of life. Imho though God is involved a little too much than was neccessary.
❤
This book can change your life !
Must readThere are so many lessons in the form of excerpts throughout, I found myself sending passages to multiple friends and family!
