https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/14400.Stalking_the_Angel
But I really enjoyed Suspect by the same author and I thought it was about time I gave Elvis a second chance.In case you’ve never come across this series before – unlikely if you’re in any way a reader of crime fiction - Cole is a private investigator working out of Los Angeles with a hard-man sidekick called Joe Pike.
It’s like an episode of the Rockford Files (I’m showing my age here) has been melded with a Jackie Chan script.For the record, the case involves a missing Japanese manuscript and encounters the Yakuza (the Japanese mob) as Cole seeks to chase it down.
I really want to like you, but two books in and this still feels like awkward blind dating rather than true love.Elvis Cole is hired by wealthy Bradley Warren to recover a rare Japanese manuscript that has been stolen.
When Warren’s wife and daughter are threatened, too, Elvis ends up getting on the bad side of the yakuza.I should be all over these Crais novels.
When I read the first Elvis Cole novel, The Monkey’s Raincoat, I thought that Crais was doing a west coast version of Robert B.
An ancient copy of the Hagakure, a Japanese text, goes missing from a rich man's safe and it's up to Elvis Cole to track it down.
Can Cole and Pike bring back Mimi and find the Hagakure?The central teaching of the Hagakure is "The Way of the Warrior is Death" and that would have been a good title for this book.
Elvis Cole goes from one grisly murder to the next, uncovering more and more dark information about the relationship between Mimi Warren and her father.
Parker's Spenser, I'm forced to abandon my curmudgeonly stance and admit that Cole's a helluva lot more than that.
This is the second book in the Elvis Cole series, published in 1989.
Elvis is the same smart arse PI we were introduced to in The Monkey's Raincoat, almost to the point where his continuous wise cracks started to get on my nerves.
I love his side kick Joe Pike, the silent, enigmatic sociopath who Elvis calls in when he needs the big guns for back up.
I've been told this series improves after the first few books so I will read a few more, if only for more of the delightful mayhem that erupts when Joe Pike is let loose.
3.5 starsSimilar flaws to the first Elvis Cole book, but with a weaker and indeterminate ending.I mostly enjoyed the book, especially the Man on a Mission heroic side of Cole, again much like the hero Harry Bosch.Moving on now to book #3 in the series.Notes:62.0% ...
a man on a Mission ...
Bradley Warren's blank check was still in my wallet.
I took it out, tore it in quarters, and put it on the table by Jillian Becker's plate.
Jillian Becker looked at the check and then at me.
'Stalking the Angel' is the second book in the Cole mystery series, but I feel it is a standalone read.
The first one in the series, The Monkey's Raincoat, goes into the backstories of Elvis Cole and his partner, Joe Pike, both of whom are Vietnam ex-military veterans, but I don't think it is necessary to read first before 'Stalking the Angel.'Bradley Warren is an ass, but he is Cole's new client.
After all, it isn't always necessary that he likes his clients.Cole drops by the Warren house to see where the safe was, and even he is impressed by the size of the mansion.
"Stalking The Angel" is the 2nd in the Elvis Cole & Joe Pike series created by Robert Crais.
This book is ALL ABOUT the incorrigible attitude of Elvis Cole, Los Angeles' finest Private Investigator.
But Elvis and his methods take it to a different plane altogether.Mr. Crais introduced us to Elvis Cole and Joe Pike in "The Monkey's Raincoat" and this book maintains the momentum of the series.P.S: This book took double the time for me to finish as I had to go back and read every dialogue of Elvis Cole once again because "Once Was Simply Not Enough".
3rd reading - Great read, with our P.I. looking for a stolen Samurai book, worth 3 million. 2nd reading - Another entry I'd read awhile back. Does anyone else re-read books? I enjoy the Elvis/Joe Pike dynamics. One is a wise-cracking extrovert, the other an enigma, with his shades and tats.This time, a yuppie type is trying to track down a purloined Japanese tome. Elvis is pulled into a Twilight Zone universe, complete with the yuppie's girl Friday, his alcoholic wife, and bewildering teenage daughter. Throw in the yakuza, and you have a rip-roaring adrenaline ride.
I enjoyed this 2nd Elvis Cole book, and am looking forward to the rest of the series.
The book had an engaging storyline, and it kept me guessing.Elvis Cole is hired to find an important Japanese book that has been stolen.
As he tries to find it, he comes up against organized Japanese crime, as well as some surprises.I really like Elvis, and I felt badly for him in this book.
He tried so terribly hard to do the right thing for Mimi, but his efforts didn't turn out like he had planned.
It was tough to see him wondering if he'd done the right thing.
I enjoyed Elvis Cole's second go-around almost as much as the first, but I was left with a few naggi
L.A. Requim, which is the 8th Elvis Cole novel, is what landed him as an author that defied all genres and in it outsurpassed even the legendary Ross Macdonald.Enough about Crais, the guy's good.
Use him too much and you wonder why he isn't the main character (we know Crais has struggled with this as he produced 4 separate novels featuring Pike as the hero); use him too little and you start wondering why the big guns aren't being pulled out by Elvis.
We are never more beautiful than when we are burning.Like I said, it really came together following the publication of his 8th Elvis Cole novel.
A fast paced read that feels very much like it wanted to impress the Chandler readers with how authentic its structure and attitude is. Fun and quick witted and full of well hit plot beats, superior to almost all of the other obvious Chandler clones i’ve come across. I think i’ll enjoy taking another trip with Elvis Cole.
This was a good book with a good who-dun-it and a lot of action. I am starting to get into this series and have heard great things about it too. I enjoy Elvis Cole's sense of humor and Joe Pike just being Joe Pike. Give this book/series a try if you are looking for a good mystery that is well written and had likeable characters and a lot of action. I'm looking forward to the third book in this series.
A rare 13th century Japanese manuscript, the Hagakure, has been stolen and Elvis Cole is hired to get it back. He and Joe Pike begin their search in L.A.’s Little Tokyo, the nest of the Japanese mafia. Very exciting book.
And no one does it quite like Robert Crais.No one else can take you into the heart of Little Tokyo, where Elvis has to go to investigate the case, and not only make you feel you're there, but ratchet up the suspense as he discovers a body killed in a most gruesome way, probably at the hands of the yakuza (the Japanese version of the Mafia).In addition, Crais has the amazing ability to build build tension and suspense in his story to the point where you simply can't read fast enough, then suddenly insert something incredibly funny.
Adding one star to this book because I feel like the last half of the book is where Crais really starts to flesh out who he wants Elvis to be. The story drags some at the beginning and you start to feel that everything is super predictable but how everything works out through me for a loop. Like coming back to this series now, revisiting my old friends and remembering why Joe Pike is my favorite "detective friend."
Elvis Cole, ace private detective, is still sort of being defined as a character, as is his trusty nearly nonverbal sidekick Joe Pike, and in this episode Cole is hired to find a stolen rare Japanese manuscript.
Before he knows it, he finds much more than he bargained for, and brings Pike in to get things moving.
He’s fired from the job by the dickish guy who hired him but keeps working at it because there’s more to the story.
The procedural stuff, although Cole is a PI and not a cop, seems solid and the story moves along at a fast clip.
Seriously though, this was a fun read but like the first Cole novel didn’t bowl me over.
I think the biggest reason I enjoy these is because I like Cole a lot.
It’s just hard to care as much about that kind of mystery when there’s so many books about serial killers ’n shit out there.
Of course it did kind of broaden out quite a bit so the book wasn’t really the biggest issue in the novel but it was certainly the starting point.
Plus these books are less than 300 pages each so it’s not like dedicating several weeks to a fucking brick and being underwhelmed.
I really enjoyed this 2nd book in the Elvis Cole series!
Good mystery that kept me guessing. Not a typical happy ending, but a good resolution.
Follow a stolen Japanese book, a gruff employer, a “sweet girl”?, Joe Pike is back, with Elvis Cole book #2- I read then out of order. Wait for the twist at the end!
He meets the businessman's family which consists of a wife, who is a drunkard and who signals that she is oh-so-available to Elvis, and their teenage daughter, who at first meeting appears to be something of a pathetic nonentity.Cole's investigation leads him deep into the Japanese subculture of Los Angeles where he encounters the Japanese mafia, the yakuza.
The practical reader wonders how Elvis Cole will ever make a living as a private detective because he seems to specialize in pissing off his employers and getting fired!
I love Elvis Cole!
He's a guy I would never cross.In this book, Elvis has been hired to locate an ancient Japanese manuscript.
When he quits the case (he doesn't like taking money from a man as vile as his client), he still solves the case because he said he would!These books were published in the late 1980's but you couldn't tell from the writing.
I love Cole's lackadaisical attitude, his 'take me or leave me, I could care less'.
Cole takes everything to heart and he will find the answers to all his questions-and he doesn't care who he has to kill to get it.
Everything PI Elvis Cole knew about Japanese culture he'd learned from reading Shogun, but he knew a lot of crooks and what he didn't know, his sociopathic sidekick Joe Pike did.
Together their search begins in LA's Little Tokyo and the nest of the notorious Japanese mafia, the yakuza, and leads to a white knuckled adventure filled with madness, murder and sexual obsession just another day's work for Elvis Cole.
The dialogue between Joe Pike and Elvis is, as always, at it's snarky best.
well, I won't spoil the rest of it too much, but just refer back to the first paragraph...Trouble with this book is that half way through it tries to become some sort of social worker's manual, where Cole forgets the fact that he's meant to be a private detective and turns into a bleeding heart instead.
Just didn't hang together for me, I'm afraid.
A sample of the writing of this book..."You have any idea how much money that is?""Excuse me," I said.
We can go on."Really?Look I get that most post-Chandler private eye stories follow the same cliches and that the protagonist always has to be some sort of scarred, sarcastic jerk but for the love of God, at least write it well!
He's an accomplished writer who gets good reviews and, being that this is his second book, I'll probably get around to reading him again at some point because I do love private eye tales.
But hopefully his writing gets better.
STALKING THE ANGEL - ExCrais, Robert - 2nd in Elvis Cole seriesBradley Warren had lost something very valuable, something that belonged to someone else: a rare thirteenth century Japanese manuscript called the Hagakure.
Everything PI Elvis Cole knew about Japanese culture he'd learned from reading Shogun, but he knew a lot of crooks and what he didn't know, his sociopathic sidekick Joe Pike did.
Together their search begins in LA's Little Tokyo and the nest of the notorious Japanese mafia, the yakuza, and leads to a white knuckled adventure filled with madness, murder and sexual obsession just another day's work for Elvis Cole.Crais really knows how to capture the reader from page one to "the end."
First Robert Crais book I've read and I enjoyed it so much. Elvis Cole is a great character, funny as well as determined. He's good at his job and doesn't stop until he knows the answer, seemingly more for himself than for the client.Joe Pike is the quiet one you should watch out for, and they clearly share a close friendship. They can read each other incredibly well and make for a dynamic duo.I only started this one as an 'in between' book because it's short, but it's giving me a craving for more Crais, Cole and Pike :)
I really like Elvis Cole and Joe Pike, but I really didn't like all the excessive killing and over-the-top violence. I also hated that Elvis was in the wrong here several times and cost people their lives. Nobody is perfect, but Cole kept making mistakes over and over again.
I loved the book. I really enjoy Elvis Cole and Joe Pike is an interesting character as well. I like the little plot twists in the story and the emotions Elvis deals with in making his decisions. Great book - great series!
