https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/108629.The_Valleys_of_the_Assassins
There is however one important difference, West's account of a journey through Yugoslavia is tied together by her thesis that the virility of the Serbs and their self-conception as a nation was the only effective counter balance to European fascism, all her snakey explorations of culture, history, or character support that argument while the simple device of moving from north to south, from modernity to the starkness of epoch changing clashes that she ties up with the battles on the plains of Kosovo and Kumanovo.
"Solitude, I reflected, is the one deep necessity of the human spirit to which adequate recognition is never given in our codes.
It is looked upon as a discipline or a penance, but hardly ever as the indispensable, pleasant ingredient it is to ordinary life, and from this want of recognition come half our domestic problems.
The fear of an unbroken tête-à-tête for the rest of his life should, you would think, prevent any man from getting married.
She traveled as a native, on a pack mule, sleeping in homes in small villages, learning how the locals lived.She wrote many articles about her discoveries that were published in the journals of the Royal Geographic Society, and drew up maps of regions that were until then unmapped.
Names of places have changed and photos of that era are few and far between, the area was being modernized as she traveled and it is very different seeing a road up a mountain rather than a precarious mule path!Stark presented history of places as told to her by her guides and the locals.
In 1930, 1931, and1932, Freya Stark traveled as a single woman (with one or two hired henchmen) through mountain regions of what was then Persia, now Iran.
She notes the pain of a first wife in a polygamous marriage, displaced in the affections of her husband; the way parents fear for their children (or don't) in a society with high levels of infant mortality; the pride of a young hill-dweller with no experience of the wider world, but a great deal of ambition.
Freya racconta di come si era quasi abituata a mangiare, leggere, lavarsi e dormire circondata dagli sguardi e dalla presenza di decine di curiosi che non potevano smettere di osservare questo strano animale.
La Stark, spirito esploratore indomito, curioso e romantico, si muove con molta disinvoltura in questo mondo arcaico e vedere luoghi e persone di quei luoghi e quei tempi con i suoi occhi è molto piacevole, spesso divertente, alcune volte commovente.
Il mio approccio per la lettura è stato di sorvolare su alcune parti più tediose per poi soffermarmi e godermi i dialoghi, le relazioni con le persone, le descrizioni dei costumi e delle condizioni di vita.
This has been on the go for a while, unusually - but it is very good and really interesting. Freya Stark was one woman who broke every mould and dared anything. Admirable and inspiring.
Trained as a geographer and cartographer, she lived in Baghdad in the Thirties and traveled throughout the Middle East, Turkey and Afghanistan intrepidly, sometimes gathering intelligence for the British, sometimes on Archeological expeditions and other adventures.
Freya went places that few westerners at the time would go, let alone a woman traveling alone.
The Valleys of the Assassins is a collection of pieces about her travels in Persia in the Thirties.
The last pieces describe trips she took in the mountainous region between Tehran and the Caspian sea among a group of people called the Assassins were a Persian Shi’a sect of Isma’ili Muslims who were known for their abilities as professional murderers.
This is a collection of Stark's writings about her adventure travels in the middle east during the early 1930s, mostly in the Iran/Iraq border region.
She traveled on foot and on horseback through what was then (and probably is still) very wild and dangerous country, in a place where women were expected not to be, and managed to face down a good many very difficult and dangerous situations.
I was able to get some sense of where she was by looking up the major place names in wikipedia.
It is quite remarkable that an English woman should, in 1930, take a notion to travel by herself to the remote regions of northern Persia - a land still closely resembling the tribal patterns of medieval days.
With local tribesmen as guides, she made her way over the mountains and through the valleys casting herself upon the hospitality of the villagers.
She seems to have been quite fluent in language and well acquainted with the history of the area which certainly worked in her favor.
A fascinating glimpse into a land on the verge of change as the Shah's new road was pushing into the area bringing the era of modern travel and all the changes that implied.
Although most of the book is pretty concrete descriptions of the places she goes and the things she does, she does mix in some more poetic descriptions and some philosophical reflections as well as historical points which varied the material some in a nice way.The big caveat with this book, and one that you see a fair bit in the 3 star reviews here is that it can be a bit dry and list like at times.
One of my 2014 favorite reads.In 1930 and 1932 Freya Stark, a British woman in her 30s, traveled into Persia (Iran) as far as the rock of Alamut, the stronghold of that madman who seduced his followers with hashish into carrying out for-hire assassinations from Jerusalem to Marseilles.
The Valleys of the Assassins is the first I have read by her.Her adventures in the Middle East, including experiencing different cultures as a lone English woman in many cases, are incredibly interesting.
However, the Valleys of the Assassins is an out of the way place that even the English have not headed out to, and Stark also wants to collect artifacts and map the region.
Overall I was a little disappointed by how very stiff and British this travel account is, but it's also a very unique first person perspective on a world that had been not heavily influenced, let alone seen, by outsiders.
I ADORE Freya Stark.
She inspired my own wanderlust many years ago, and always reminds me that there is so much to learn and explore.
To be honest, this book was a little tedious, but I think that has more to do with the fact that I am reading it decades after it was published.
I can imagine reading it as a young woman in the 30s and my mind being completely in awe of the world that was out there.
So for Freya, as an explorer, as a traveler, and as an all around kickass lady, 5 stars.
For this book, 3 stars.
درباره سلسله ی اسماعیلیه در این مناطق صحبت می کنه
Stark went wherever she pleased and however she wanted, regardless of what the world expected from a single woman in the 1930s, only capitulating occasionally and only to a point, out of politeness and respect for cultures other than her own.
It's refreshing and inspiring to read about a woman like her and to know that she existed.
There is an arrogance and air of superiority and entitlement that hangs from Stark throughout; and as respectful of local customs as she outwardly is, reading from the perspective of 2017 there are some things I found horrifying to think of having happened - like all the grave robbing.
A single woman, at the turn of the last century, travelling unknown, unmapped lands in search of adventures, geography and history, and essentially to carve out a career out of something that was quite unheard of, for the women of that time.
This book is a collection of her experiences, jotted down in her journal/diary from her travels through the inhospitable stretches of Luristan and Persia.
But nonetheless, the tales of this bullheaded adventurer's travels to rob graves and hunt for skulls across Central Asia are stuff that is truly fascinating but seldom spoken about in classrooms.
I'm sure there was a good book in there somewhere, but it never engaged me and I found it very difficult to read.
Should be great, but so poorly written.
This is a book that is very firmly set in the 'travel writing' genre, which I'm finding is one that I have a hard time with.
A lot of location names and unfamiliar-to-me language is used, and while I was able to cobble on due context, I'm not sure this was the best book for me to have started reading Freya Stark's work with.
Honestly, the one thing that bothers me the most - but which is also a function of the travel writing genre, somewhat - is the lack of FREYA that we get.
Narratives of several journeys in remote areas of the Middle East, principally the Persia-Iraq border region, in the 1930's.
She is motivated partly by her own curiosity and wanderlust, and partly by a never fully explained commission from the British Foreign Office (I think) which likely relates to mapping and general intelligence gathering but apparently also includes a bona fide treasure hunt.[return][return]It's a remarkable insight into a people (peoples really) and place which most of us know nothing about.
Reading Valley of the Assasins which describes the travels of this brave woman Freya Stark, as she travels through "Persia" in the 1930s, one has to admire her courage and great sense of adventure.
Riding either horses or donkeys she explores first the region of Luristan then the Valley of the Assasins.
Much of the writing is engaging as the travelers never know what reception they are going to receive from the villagers and other travelers they encounter.
However much of the writing becomes repetitive descriptions of riding over one mountain after another,down steep winding trails into valleys with scattered villages.
Freya Stark is the closest to a real Indiana Jones that I've encountered.
Her adventures across the Middle East in the early 1930s are fascinating, with beautiful descriptions of the land, the people, and the history of the places she went.
In particular, her archaeology is of the adventurous Indiana Jones type that often seems to create more ethical questions than it provides historical answers.
She traveled by herself throughout Iran and Iraq in the 30s, making maps, meeting the locals, and looking for bits and pieces of history.
She traveled by mule and on foot, using local guides, and every night she’d arrive unexpectedly at a some nomad’s tent and be invited to dine and given a place to sleep (often under the stars).
But I have to say that this book was a bit hard to get through.
Geography was her passion, and it shows, but the book is really weighted down with minute descriptions of each hill, pass, river, torrent, defile, bank, and cliff.
Sorry, this is one of the few books I couldn't get into at all; as a matter of fact, I couldn't even skim it to the end.
Like any travelogue, many individuals Freya met on her adventure were named and their clothing described but soon were forgotten.
Many valleys, mountains, hills, plains, streams were named and, perhaps, beautifully described but I had a hard time figuring out how they were physically related (I even had Google Maps open and found them far removed from each other).
In short, I gave up and put the book in my rummage sale pile.
Travelling only in the presence of local guides and speaking nothing but Persian for week after week, she leads us into the high mountain country of ancient Kurdistan, Luristan and Lakistan (and possibly a few other -stans), searching for traces of ancient civilizations (as well as Bronze-age man).
One has the impression that visiting modern Iran, in which all these travels took place, would have similar difficulties.
The writing is a trifle old-fashioned yet perfectly clear and if this traveller expresses at odd times what seems to be a kind of snobbishness, at others she is wonderfully human and tells of the people and places she visits with great warmth.
i didn't enjoy stark's writing as much as thesinger's.
i had really been looking forward to reading this after seeing a review of a new biography about stark.
her life was really interesting, being english, growing up in italy, and then later traveling on her own in the middle east after studying arabic in lebanon.
i suppose one could say her life was more interesting than her writing.
she writes, at times, purely for the english audience, comparing a scene to a certain town or aspect of english life that the non-english reader in the 21st century might not understand.
Se narra la historia de Freya, quien viaja a Persia por los años 1930 aprox.
(?)Me pareció una historia interesante por ser la primera que leo de este tipo, pero además porque no conozco nada de la región en donde sucede la historia, así que todo resultó nuevo e interesante.Quedé impresionada con la actitud de Stark, quien se adentró en una región sin conocerla y, mayormente, por su cuenta, valiéndose de sus conocimientos geográficos y cartográficos para establecer rutas a seguir y descubrir la ubicación real de su viaje.
Arriesgando incluso su vida, como sucedió en el momento en que cayó enferma, pero no renunció a su cometido.
I find I don't really like this person that much.
But I keep reading her, because I admire her sheer guts and intellect, her uncanny ability to size up personalities, perceive truth and falsehood, bargain, barter, and schmooze.
Her endless energy and interest.
Her absolute fearlessness.
And most of all, the way she puts all this together to get exactly what she wants.
But that, I suppose, would violate her code of traveling solely for pleasure.Also enjoyed: when people ask what you're reading, answering, "Freya Stark, who traveled by herself around backcountry Iran in the 30s for her own amusement." People's faces are priceless.
I read this book as a monthly discussion group assignment.
It is an interesting account written in 1937 of the travels of British author Freya Stark, a lone traveler, archaeologist and geographer.
Stark documents her travels in Persia (Iran) by mule and foot, mapping the terrain and searching for bronze age remnants of civilizations.
Her descriptions of the remote villages and peoples she encounters as well as the country are well done and it is interesting reading, although names of towns are unfamiliar and many have either ceased to exist or have been renamed.
The book brings out the humanity and poverty of the Iranian back country inhabitants.
Flitting about exotic locations must be invigorating, Freya Stark lived 100 adventure filled years. She travelled all over Persia as a lone woman and thoroughly enjoyed herself. It is refreshing to read the travels of an independent woman, who defied tradition, enjoyed her fellow man, and appreciated the beauty of her surroundings. Freya Stark said, “One life is an absurdly small allowance”. I agree. She relished life, took chances, did things most of us will never attempt, and fortunately chose to share them with us in her books.
