https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/46725.Plagues_and_Peoples
Yes the book was much about epidemiology, but the focus was also very much on how certain diseases were possible within certain environments – how they got there, how they survived there, and how those environments were affected in the way of future outbreaks, food cultivation, population growth/ reduction, etc.You will not get a lot of unknown facts about diseases from this book as the majority of the time periods addressed were prior to formal record keeping and disease identification.
Most of his conclusions are reasonable, and he provides a fresh look at history that his contemporaries have not accounted for.However, I hold several reservations concerning his guesswork where information was lacking.
There's also some outdated concepts within his arguments - natural for a book published in 1976, such as the talk about the parallel evolution of man.
McNeill often gives the course of disease a little too much credit in the course of human history.
humans) and Macroparasitic (Man vs.
Man or animals vs.
man) are not the sole motivations in human behavior.
Worth a look.
An entertaining, if depressing, book on how history has been shaped by disease and pathogens. If you liked Jared Diamond's Guns Germs and Steel, this book is all about the germs, and about more than just the modern era: there are interesting comments on the Black Death and the rise of "childhood diseases" and why the tropics are still to be feared in terms of disease (and why climate change is so worrisome, even though that fear postdates the book by a few decades).
Other great books on this genre (different authors) are "Stiff: The Curious Lives of Human Cadavers" by Mary Roach (much more readable, this author has a charming sense of humor) and the "The Red Market: On the Trail of the World's Organ Brokers, Bone Thieves, Blood Farmers, and Child Traffickers" by Scott Carney (a very readable author, very much in tune and sympathetic to the subject at hand).
He's an author who can't past his own writing style to make direct statements for his readers to understand.
On a lark, I quoted a few on my blog to see if a few Ph.D.s could make sense (History, English, etc.) of the statements.
This book is a really important one, but it's been so foundational that this piece has been eclipsed by numerous others.
McNeill's primary contribution is centering disease as a subject of historical analysis.
Before this work, little thought had been given to disease's role in world history.
Clearly, disease was pervasive and affected everybody on earth, but nobody gave thought to the impact disease had on historical processes themselves.
William McNeill's own son, John McNeill, has followed in his father's footsteps by producing Mosquito Empires, for example.Because the work has been eclipsed, it is not nearly as important as it once was.
Problems of finding food and the changing ways human communities have done so are familiar enough in economic histories.
The problems of avoiding becoming food for some other organism are less familiar, largely because from very early times human beings have ceased to have much to fear from large-bodied animal predators like lions or wolves.
Nevertheless, one can properly think of most human lives as caught in a precarious equilibrium between the microparasitism of disease organisms and the macroparasitism of large-bodied predators, chief among which have been other human beings."Originally published in 1977, parts are noticeably antiquated, but it remains an interesting and thought-provoking work which has sparked my interest in learning much more about the bubonic plague and the medieval period.
McNeill in this seminal volume offers a very interesting and informative overview of the past interactions and continuing interactions between so-called "macroparasitism"--that is, predation of man upon man--and "microparasitism"--the relation between tribes or nations of men and the organisms in their microenvironment. This may be one of the first books to systematically examine the equilibrium that develops over time as diseases adapt to hosts, and how that microparasitic equilibrium can be disturbed by macroparasitic movements of people, whether through war or trade or expansion. A book that anybody who is interested in medical history should read.
Only a historian would know how to beat a dead horse to this extreme. Unfortunately, the redundancy in the first section was enough to kill the interesting stuff...read this only if you have trouble sleeping or it's required reading for a school course.
“It is not absurd to class the ecological role of humankind in its relationship to other life forms as a disease.”The ruling classes in civilizations behave like macro-parasites when they siphon nutrients away from the working class hosts that they exploit.
The same was true for Native Americans, even those who lived in the densely populated regions of Mexico, Central America, and the Andes.Humans share many diseases with domesticated animals: poultry (26), rats and mice (32), horses (35), pigs (42), sheep and goats (46), cattle (50), and dogs (65).
This book, a fresh and wide-ranging look at the links between disease and history, is full of startling and dramatic connections and almost seems designed to provoke.
Perhaps the main flaw is the constant, overwrought comparison between diseases caused by microorganisms and the strains on society caused by what McNeill refers to as "macroparasitic" entities, by which he means states, tax collectors, armies, etc.
I would rather that he had stuck to his thesis rather more closely; his book suffers when its focus wanders into specious comparisons between the very small and the very large.
Originally published in the mid 1970s, this may be the first history book to focus on the effects of disease on human civilizations.
Beginning with the start of recorded history and continuing into the 20th century, McNeil traces various plagues and their consequences to human populations.
It is this book that properly restores the critical role of disease in many major historical events: Plague in Athens during the Peloponnesian War; plague as a major contributing factor in the fall of the Western Roman Empire; plague as cause of the fall of the Mogul Empire; plague as destroyer of native populations in the Americas, Australia, and New Zealand.
While the book's subject matter is fairly interesting, McNeill has a tendency to repeat himself and uses language that can only kindly be described as verbose.One notices that the tone of the text is quite long-winded and repetitive.A few paragraphs in and you begin to perceive a discourse, of sorts, that is familiar, the reader having read a similar statement earlier in the text, and whose verbage is unnecessarily convoluted.Catch my drift? Try 300 Pages of that.
I had expected discussion of exactly what cultural ramifications disease epidemics have had throughout history.
The movement of disease and the large-scale changes that forced upon populations throughout history was discussed in great detail, but the CULTURAL impact of all this was not the focus.
For example, in the chapter about the plague epidemics, McNeill focuses on transmission of the disease, possible origins, effects of that disease on the prevalence of others, and quarentine measures enacted in response.
The final chapter, disease after 1700, was also fairly interesting; it focused on the roots of medical advancement, social change that doctors were able to bring about, and modern (20th centure) epidemics.
Civilized diseases.
This is the book that first alerted me to the way some germs and viruses have altered human history, much as pigeons have become a part of our daily environment.
While Western Europe became more superstitious, the Moslems were somewhat more enlightened:When you learn that epidemic disease exists in a county, do not go there; but if it breaks out in the county where you are, do not leave.Book Season = Winter (when you're shivering with the flu)
Written back in ’76 the view expressed in the book is only more pertinent today when we have no dearth of theories explaining macro-level human state development and history (J.
In India state expansion into south east direction was badly impeded and in fact McNeill’s views the caste system as social response to inability to find immunological balance between civilized diseases of the city and various ‘peoples of the forest’.
Staggering.-	Such population losses had to have had an effect on social fabric, taxation, religions, warfare, imperial expansions in all sorts of ways.
This work seemlessly unites archaeology, history, and microbial biology by looking at how infectious diseases have caused our history.
The deepest implications are reserved for our future, but the resolution of the past is brought into clarity as well.
McNeil points to the sucess of Muhammed and Alexander the Great and argues that they owe more to diseases ravaging the conquered rather than the military prowess of the conquerer.
Simple facts such as the density of cities and the rates of infection in deserts and backlands help to explain ancient history, and places the whole of our recorded human experience against the ebb and tide of microbial populations across the old world.
If you think we control the world, think again. This book traces the influence of diseases on history. It's compelling reading. It's interesting that this is a part of history rarely studied, except for some mention of the Black Plague, in college classes, though again and again disease interrupts the plans and course of men.
This is an interdisciplinary work, an epidemiological history of humanity. For me, it represented an entirely new perspective whereby the political events emphasized in standard histories were radically relativized. Indeed, when one compares the devastations and distruptions caused by human agencies to that, say, of rats, the rodents have often come across as more influential than homo sapiens.
Detailed and thoughtful. I would've liked to see some of the theories expounded upon and expanded to include a more recent history of epidemics within the past forty years.
by indicating to the 'cooling-down' of epidemics, leaving room for a more 'rational' approach of the world.Another feature about this work is that McNeill constantly associates the microparasitarian evolution (the influence of diseases through bacilli and viruses on humans) with the macroparasitarian evolution (the influence of wars, political regimes, tax systems etc.); according to him both are crucial external threats to humanity, in that they can have devastating, disruptive consequences, but remarkably can also create an environment of relative stability, and thus advance the health of men.
McNeil examines macroparisitic and microparisitic effects on the growth of civilizations, focusing primarily on diseases and how epidemics have effected world history, the course of civilization and human evolution.I found the sections where the author discusses the "living conditions" of diseases particularly interesting: how a specific disease inhabited a certain enviornment, how it arrived and survived in that environment, and how those environments may have been altered by human impacts such as agricultural activities, population growth (or lack thereof), how the disease spread to other areas etc.
A classic, because McNeill draws from his rich knowledge of world history and looks at the problem of diseases and epidemics from a global point of view, with which he was several decades ahead of the recent World/Global History-movement.
A pioneering study because this book is full of hypotheses and guesses.
McNeill has no problem to acknowledge this, simply because before him (this book was published in 1976) hardly any research was done on this issue.
Definitely an interesting book, but I suspect (and hope) that in the meantime a number of hypotheses of McNeill were verified and confirmed or rejected, and would thus recommend to read a much more recent work on this matter.
The contemporary global diffusion of childhood diseases such as measles, mumps, and until recently smallpox took thousands of years, a history well covered in this book.It was due to a near lack of disease that humanity was able to multiple vastly between 40,000 and 10,000 B.C; as humans left the tropical environment of Africa, it left behind not only diseases that were endemic to the environment that had kept mankind in check but additionally moved into non-tropical environments that were not as benign for many parasites (McNeill often referred to infectious diseases as microparasites or simply parasites).

When I bought this book I made the mistake of not checking the publication dates.
This book was first published in 1977 and the information in it is very dated.
There have been more recent books that cover roughly the same topic that have far better information in it.Another aspect of this book that got on my nerves is the author making these inferences without providing enough proof to back up his ideas.
I don't disagree with the argument being made, but there wasn't enough evidence provided in the book to win me over to the authors way of thinking.
A history of the interaction of human history and disease, from ancient times to the present (i.e. the mid 1970's). Fascinating study of how epidemics have affected the course of history, including how diseases spread between Europe and Africa to the Americas after 1492. But earlier conquests also had medical consequences too, for example the Mongol conquest of much of Asia in the 13th century, which perhaps facilitated the spread of the bubonic plague (the Black Death) in the 14th century. The last chapter discusses the rise and impact of modern medicine.
To really understand history, everyone should read this book. It will completely change the way you look at history - it's incredible to me that I studied history through high school and college, and never really thought about measles, small pox, yellow fever, and their role in history. McNeill is a master at connecting disparate parts of history - from the black plague to changes in roofing to the expulsion of the Jews. Plus, this book is just a lot of fun to read.
I suppose one of the reasons for the low rating is four decades between it’s publication and when I read it. It was simply outdated. Now I admit, it’s my fault for not checking the year it was written (and reading Guns, Germs, and Steel first) but I can’t separate myself from that. Another qualm I had with the book was that McNeill is guilty (in the first degree) of circumlocution. This should have been a 150-200 pager.
If we know each other well, I've probably recommended this book to you. It's one of my staples. Examines human history from the perspective of epidemiology, discussing how disease has shaped our societies. It's imperfect, and some of the science discussed is outdated now, but it's still a must-read.
It is a bit dated, and from recent reviews I've read, some of the more speculative parts of it have not held up all that well, but the general thesis of the work has apparently gained traction (according a UChicago book review I link at the end.) It's the 'Germ' of Jared Diamond's work.McNeill argues that disease has played a central role in human history, and that many events attributed to political disturbances or famines should be supplemented by an understanding of epidemics and their evolutionary dynamics.
