https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/19387.Candide_Zadig_and_Selected_Stories
It must be an established truth that then—one hundred years ago—as it is now, both theater enthusiasts and readers of fiction overlap; someone taking up Candida for the first time (or having the privilege of experiencing it live on the stage) will undoubtedly make the connection between Bernard Shaw’s drama, subtitled “A Mystery,” and Voltaire’s masterwork, 1759’s Candide, or Optimism.Merely having any work of art baring the name of its heroine is often considered magnificent—a true auteur’s touch.
I found it interesting that Voltaire so often wrote about non-european characters.
Zadig and Ingenuous were both virtuous paragons confronting European foibles.
A bit high-flying to be considered science fiction, but Voltaire's correct guess that Mars had two moons earns him a mention in some SF annals.
(In context it's clear to me that he's just making stuff up, and why not give a planet two moons?
There's a mention of Mars needing another moon to get by, being so far from the sun.)Glad I read it, just to have read it, but there were passages that were dull.
With Voltaire his outlook seems to be more the balance between good and evil and your perception of the world.
An optimist sees the good and a pessimist sees the bad but yet both qualities are out there in world for you to experience.
I've truthfully never been into philosophy outside of my own pseudo philosophical ideas but Candide and Zadig are extremely fun, witty, and wimsical stories which expound on Voltaire's philosophical ideas in a way that is truly enjoyable and not fraught with lectures.
These books, espeically Candide, are absolutely hilarious!
If you haven't delved into philosophy before then this is the book to start with.
Warning: Spoilers This review is over Candide, a tale of adventure. The pack of action does not let up until the story slowed down for the end, which made the story arc difficult for me to distinguish. This did not make it a bad story. I appreciate a book, specifically the tale of Candide, for its brevity; little to no time is wasted with meaningless, useless, worthless details and elaboration. While reading, I thought about three different intellectual women in our world and how they would all
While reading, I thought about three different intellectual women in our world and how they would all disagree with each other- while I with all of them- on the topic of optimism, alone.
and now to beg my bread until I can earn it; all this could not happen differently.” “My friend,” said the orator to him, “do you believe that the Pope is antichrist?” “I had never heard that before,” replied Candide; “but whether he is or not, I have no bread” (21).
Since I wrote the Afterward for Viking/Penguin, I had to read this book thoroughly and started out unhappily, since so many of Volatire's pltos are preditcable.
I was also delighted to learn that Voltaire, with Swift, wrote the first science fiction stores.It also was the case that Volaire would fit into the modern category of magic realism--although he himself would make fun of the label.
When I finished writing the review, I realized that I was much richer for having read the very short stories.
I really enjoyed it..i mean it is Voltaire haha. loved his bitter sarcasm and the rather easy approach to things. however i have to say I liked Zadig much more than Candide!
სამი სახალისო ფილოსოფიური მოთხრობა, იგავის სტილში. აქედან ორი (ზადიგი და ბაბილონის პრინცესა) ეხება და აკრიტიკებს რელიგიურ ფანატიზმს/ინკვიზიციას.კანდიდში გატარებულია ფილოსოფიური ოპტიმიზმის იდეა, რომ ეს სამყარო საუკეთესოა სხვა ყველა სამყაროს შორის და ყველაფერი მიზეზშედეგობრივი კავშირით უკეთესობისკენ მიემართება (ლეიბნიცი).3.5/5
Leibnitz must have been all, like, "Ouch!" But since nobody has really been pushing Philosophical Optimism per se for, oh, a couple of centuries now, the book has necessarily lost some of its intellectual punch.No matter.
well, that predates almost everything we might read, hear, watch, or experience in everyday life (excepting certain very old buildings in participating locations).Voltaire writes with a straight-faced silliness that is likely to resonate with Monty Python fans.
No tellin'!Prognosis: Still an easy and entertaining read after all these year, Candide is a funny and humane parody of the ways of the world.
This book is a collection of some of Voltaire's fictional stories, in which he criticizes many commonly held views in his day.
Religion, philosophy, and politics were all attacked, as nothing was sacred from Voltaire's semi-comedic criticism.
The criticisms he makes of his contemporary society are usually very good, although, unfortunately, he does not take them far enough.
Among many flaws, the two that mainly stick out are his ethnic stereotypes and sexism.
It could have been a lot worse, and compared to many others of his day, his views were quite modern and humane.
No one ever thought philosophy could be funny. And then there was Voltaire!
"A riot. A Simple, funny story that is just a great satire on so many things."
Dated.
Candide was very funny--can't believe I hadn't read this earlier.
Probably my favorite collection of stories by any author I've ever read. Voltaire's humor is fantastic and his satire still bites into historical figures. It's a shame this copy is in such awful shape, I'd much prefer to bring home a better copy of it if possible.
Synopsis: Zadig is a Babylonian philosopher who is beset by many crimes including enslavement. Published 1747.
Entertaining, witty, and clever.
Books like “Inside the company, CIA Diary”, should be banned from schools, bookstores and libraries, because that book tells the readers everything that is going on inside the company and revealed the identity of many of CIA’s agents.
Like the book, “The Color Purple”, should be banned from Middle Schools and from High Schools because it really is inappropriate to read in schools, and because students acts immature when they are reading books that contain sex, drugs or racism.At the other hand, I also think that the majority of books that are banned weren’t suppose to be banned because students, even adults can learned about what really is going on in the world back then and today.
Then get busy ("cultivate our garden," as Candide says).
Resolve to leave the world as it is, for even "if all is not well, all is passable." The greatest joy in reading Voltaire is his rapier wit.
Like that other great satirist, Jonathan Swift, Voltaire understood that humor is a tremendous weapon, one that can expose life's absurdities in a trice.
Candide and L'Ingenu always have me laughing out loud.
Voltaire's dead-pan delivery is the key, and he also understood that brevity is the soul of wit.
If you haven't read the great philosophe, you are missing out on one of literature's finest gifts.
Voltaire's writing is very different from anything today, but still worth reading.
The ups-and-downs and bizarre characters of Candide's story make it entertaining as well as thought-provoking, depending on your sense of humor.
It actually reminds me of Terry Gilliam's film The Adventures of Baron Munchausen, leading me to wonder to what extent, if any, that movie or any other Monty Python work is inspired by Candide.As for the other stories in this edition, the same generally applies, but some of them do feel a little bit too didactic to be completely interesting.
Zadig --> The whole tale is filled with situations where bad things keep beating him down because of his talents.
And of course, the moral of the story is that for every million grains of sands that are crushed on the beach, one becomes a diamond.
Highly recommend this one for its humor and satire that is still true even though it was written by a French Philosoph in the 18th century.Candide --> In the end they learn that everything is pointless and they have nothing better to do than cultivate their garden.
Again, filled with satire, much of which isn't relevant know.
It's still entertaining, but not as good as Zadig.
It is rare that you get an intelect in this range.
And that this intellect is an artistic intelect rather than a scientific or matematical one is made even more surprising by the rationality of the author.
To say that FMA De Voltaire is a genius is undermining his capabilities.
In an age of chaos he gave voice to truth even when possibly at the expense of his life.
Through all the many years of my life (lol- though i am not that old) and all i have read i find de voltaire one of the most imortant writers in the the history of mankind
This book is the Enlightenment's version of a Steve Martin movie, except the book is (a) intelligent and (b) actually funny.
It is one of the very few books that I've read several times, and it makes me laugh out loud each time.
It satirically criticizes the organization of religion, politics, and social structure of the times, although most of the criticisms are (sadly) still relevant today.
Zadig is also a good story with a very similar tone, and both are less than 100 pages each so they are quick reads.
I've not bothered to read any of the other stories in this book.
1) Candide2) Zadig3) Micromegas4) The World as It Is5) Memnon6) Bababec and the Fakirs7) History of Scarmentado's Travels8) Plato's Dream9) Account of the Sickness, Confession, Death, and Apparition of the Jesuit Berthier10) Story of a Good Brahman11) Jeannot and Colin12) An Indian Adventure13) Ingenuous14) The One-Eyed Porter15) Memory's AdventureCount Chesterfield's Ears and Chaplain Goudman
Since I am not familiar with the political and literary landscape of 18th century Europe, I often get only the barest trace of understanding of the satire and criticisms in a lot of these stories. I imagine Voltaire would have a similar reaction if he were to watch the Simpsons. A lot of the time you can infer what the joke is, but it's hard to have a full appreciation if you're unfamiliar with the person or situation.
I loved this book, the second time around. I read it in French the first time. I missed so much.I've seen the show a couple of times. I missed so much.But this time, I could not put the book down and I laughed out loud several times. Brilliantly written satire. It reminds me a bit of Don quixote and a lot of Woody Allen. He mocks philosophy, has a very negative view of life but tells the story in such a light hearted way that you just have a great time reading it.
My introduction to Voltaire. I found "Candide" and most of the other stories to be OK, but to me "Zadig" was a delight. Besides being fun and somewhat crazy, the story introduces deductive reasoning more than 100 years before the first appearance of its most famous proponent, Sherlock Holmes. I will be reading "Zadig" again.
Probably the oldest book I've read but it flows much better than other old books I've read. The Lisbon earthquake parts spooked me a bit since I was in Lisbon reading it on the anniversary of the earthquake. Didn't know that was in the book.
I mostly used this translation as an aid to the original French version I was plowing through. To those who have a bit of French, I recommend it in the original -- Voltaire's writing flows in a way that can be appreciated even by those (like me) who aren't fluent.
Zadig is, hands down, my favorite short story of all time and a large part of me believes that will never change. The wit and writing in every one of these stories is top notch and excellent. Would always recommend.
"Zadig" and "Plato's Dream" earn five stars, but sadly, the other stories included in this collection do not measure up, granted we do have "Candide," "The Jesuit Berthier," "The One-Eyed Porter," and Memory's Adventure," but the other stories are downright tedious and annoying to read.
