https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6087756-white-cat
In creating this character, Black followed all the usual conventions, but in a way that was new and refreshing.
With Cassel it felt genuine, probably because he didn’t whine about it, but instead acted in such a way that made him look more like other people his age.
It’s always interesting when your narrator can’t be sure of his own memories or anything else for that matter, but when you have all that in first person, it’s especially confusing and so much fun!
Sometimes I actually think it makes the wanting worse.The fascinating and detailed world Holly Black created left me wanting more!
Curse workers - hated, feared, beloved.Some can make you forget your own name.
Rarest of all - some can even transform you into something entirely different.But don't forget, their powers are a curse.
The backlash can be unpredictable: if a death worker kills you, part of them will die - a tooth, or a finger, or maybe even their heart.
Most curse workers are tied to the black market or other criminal enterprises.
Cassel comes from a long line of curse workers and criminals.
I craved more details on the curse workers and all their power rather than the (somewhat) plodding plot.
4.5 starsI really, really enjoyed pretty much everything about this book. An exciting mystery, memorable characters and a touch of magic... I can't express how excited I am about reading Red Glove as soon as possible.Holly Black is an author that never really did anything for me before. I gave up on Tithe after reading just one chapter, and her Spiderwick Chronicles weren't bad children's books but they didn't really stand out from the masses either. White Cat was completely different, I was ad
Despite this, he has managed to build up some semblance of a normal life at his boarding school; well, that is, until the dreams about the white cat start occurring.
And then his brothers start acting strange and it becomes more and more obvious that secrets are being kept and Cassel is being lied to.There's all sorts going off and the story is never boring, and every time the mystery appears to be solved, something else will happen.
I thought the whole novel worked very well and I will be starting Red Glove with a keen interest in what will happen to Cassel next.
Reread 10/30 : Cassel is still the sarcastic little shit I remembered. I have no other option than loving him even more.  "I hate that I love this. I hate that the adrenaline pumping through the roots of my body is filling me with giddy glee. I'm not a good person." This book was full of charms ← See what I did there? ▧ Charm ⁂1 : I do love me some liar ⁂Beware of Cassel Sharpe, professional liar and Master of the game of make-believe. You're going to love him. "Being a con artist means thinking
▧ Charm ⁂1 : I do love me some liar ⁂Beware of Cassel Sharpe, professional liar and Master of the game of make-believe.
"Being a con artist means thinking that you're smarter than everyone else and that you've thought of everything.
Charming, deceptive, untrustworthy, sarcastic, selfish : Of course I loved Cassel, what do you think?
Since he was fourteen and well, hmm, killed his best friend and first love, Cassel learnt that to survive he has to become a Master of pretending.
"I'm not good at having friends.
Each time I thought I finally got it the truth slipped through my fingers.
Just when I decided never to read another Holly Black work again (due to our seemingly conflicting ideas about what good writing is), Emily's review of White Cat convinced me to give the author one final try.
It is set in an AU America where certain people have magic abilities (they are called "curse workers").
I attribute it to the fact that this book has a bit of Memento-esque quality to it, with gradual unraveling of the mysteries tangled up by various cons and curse works.
But I love crime in books.
His big brothers are deep into the family work for crime bosses.
LIKE WHY HASN'T EVERYONE READ THIS YET????Cassel is one of my favourite characters of all time now.
(Which is a lot considering his mother's in jail, his brothers work for a crime lord, and his dad is dead.)There are definitely cats in this book.
The grandpa cared and loved Cassel, but didn't absolutely smother him.
Not a lot, because Cassel doesn't do friends (he has a Big Bad Secret hanging over his life).
I LOVE THIS BOOK SO MUCH.
Imagine this scenario:Cassel and Kaz Brekker (Six of Crows--if you did not know that, please imagine my eyeballs bulging out of my head) sit at a cafe and ponder schemey things.
Cassel looks up, notices there's a girl running toward them.
Kaz frowns.
Then the girl runs past, grinning really widely, waving frantically, considering whether she should speak and then deciding against it, all while wearing a shirt that says: I LOVE YOU BYE.
Kaz peers at his empty coffee cup and decides he hasn't been drugged and that he actually saw that.
Cassel wonders if his mom is playing a prank on them.
This didn’t ruin the story, or even greatly affect it, but I do have to mention this, because this would’ve been a five-star read for me if it weren’t for this.Anyway, now that I’ve gotten my one negative point about this book out of the way, I’m free to rave about it!So, characters: I’m not going to say much about Cassel’s family, because that’ll just lead me right into spoiler territory, and I want to keep this review spoiler free in the hopes that I can convince a few people who haven’t read this book yet to give it a try.
At first when I read the blurb I saw mobsters and con artists and was like, I don't know man, that doesn't sound good.
I've loved everything else so far by Holly Black, so I was like, well, let me go ahead and take a chance on this.
And I LOVE weird things!Cassel was so awesome, and it felt nice to read a whole book from a guy's perspective.
Also, he seemed like a real teen boy.
Very interesting with the whole we-have-to-wear-gloves-thing.
Oh man, I need to start the next book.
Final rating: 2/5 stars   “The thing is that it’s really hard to stop discrimination when something’s illegal,” the girl says. “I mean, everybody thinks of workers as being criminals. Like, people use the word ‘worker’ to meancriminals. And, well, if we work a work, even once, we are criminals. So most of us are, because we had to figure it out somehow and that was usually by making something happen.”“And there are lots of workers who never do anything bad. They go to weddings and hospitals and
This is a story about a guy[Cassel] who killed his best friend [Lila], and the white cat who is stalking him.
I  didn't  predict though that the brothers Philip and Barron (MAJOR SPOILER) (view spoiler)[ used Cassel to kill people, then erased his memory and that they were doing it from the accident with Lila  (hide spoiler)].___________________________________________
Oh, and everyone here  are  keeping secrets from Cassel, under the "you are not worker so we can't tell you anything".
: ___________________________________________ Characters were very much annoying, and the plot was cofusing and boring at times, but it does have strong ending.
This story for me was like being in a fistfight.
First it opens with a scene so intriguing I dub it an insta-hook.
It hit me more like a right hook.
Just when I began to really feel bad for the main character it sucker punched me.
It was okay though, because it pulled the next few punches as the story really began and I learned about the MC, Cassel, and his curse working family.
And then…and then…it hit me right when I thought we’d finally come to terms with each other.
*4.5 Stars* Lie until even you believe it-that's the real secret of lying. The only way to have absolutely no tells.Too bad I'm not quite there yet. When I try to think of a word that reminds me of this book, the most forthcoming is just this: Weird. This book was all kinds of weird. But, when I take the time to really delve deeper and actually peel back the layers of this intricate story-line, I begin to 'see' so many more words pop into my mind: Haunting, clever, mesmerizing, addicting...sweet
When I try to think of a word that reminds me of this book, the most forthcoming is just this: Weird.
There are so many ways to look at a story and if you filter all the mystery out of the words, then it does, in fact, come off as a super weird book.
I'm not a good person.You're probably still wondering about how he murdered his best friend and the girl he's always been in love with, right?
See, Cassel is the only one in his family without a gift-he is the only non-curse worker.
How could I ever hesitate to read it?Simply put, I was rather less enamoured of Holly Black's Modern Faerie Tales series and actually couldn't see myself picking up another one of her books.
Curse work is illegal, so basically, Cassel also comes from a family of criminals.
It is set in a world that is so similar to ours, yet strikingly different in certain aspects and features a main character that is broken, feels left out, clearly shows criminal talent, but never crosses the border into unlikable.
And on top of all that, there is a very special cat.I loved this book's atmosphere.
dnf at page 46i really didn't like this book; it was extremely boring, and i was slightly confused at what was happening.buddy read (kinda) with Maica!
I picked this up as an audiobook and actually liked it a lot.Some people are born as workers in Cassel's world.
Cassel is the only one in his family who is not a worker.
He's been getting these weird dreams that make him sleepwalk in very unfortunate scenarios.I found the plot of this book very original and quite fun.
I loved Cassel, the protagonist.
It was still fun to walk through it with Cassel and see him figure it out.
Cassel is very innocent in the start, so I think it contributed to the lighter, fun read.
Oh my god. It was so good. So so good.Cassel is a character I'll never forget.The whole book was perfect. And I finally broke my reading slump! I feel so good right now.And the end was absolutely amazing. Love it.I need the 2nd book.
Taking the concept of underground crime families and adding magic to the equation, Black has created an exciting, detailed world full of depth and intrigue, populated by a wide variety of interesting characters and genuine surprises.
There’s a definite Sopranos-style vibe throughout the novel, as double crossing and black market jargon are casually discussed, but it fits in wonderfully with a well crafted and extremely readable mystery.
It’s not quite an accurate label for this series but Black excels in her field with this series, creating an intricate world with intrigue, complexities and fascinating characters, and I am thoroughly excited by the prospect of getting my hands on the sequel.
2* dnf: idk because I skipped ahead, but around 18% I thinkLame and boring. I thought the main character was going to be schemey and smart, but no he's just a stupid kid. Cassel sucks.
Absolutely loved it! I’ve read a few Holly Black novels recently and love her take on the fae world. This novel was not about the fae but a whole new magical setting. The first third was pretty good and then it really took off. An original world of magic and workers, where everyone wears gloves so their skin never touches, a family of con artists. Casserole was a really believable character. Really looking forward to the rest of the series. Recommended.
Besides, it’s not encouraging that the book is in a male voice by a female author.
And here I am, eager to finish the whole series.It's surprising how real and likable the male voice, Cassel, is.
He struggles to find his place but never wallows in self-pity.
He has that vulnerability and self-depreciation to make you root for him, and to see him out-smart powerful adversaries is such a satisfying feeling.
Though this book may not be a heady emotional ride that tugs at your heartstrings, it is nonetheless a cleverly written, engrossing story with rich world-building and likable characters.
I expected to like this book the same way you like to watch baking shows or cat videos on Youtube.
Everything about it was exactly as I wanted it.I think that one of the reasons for which I connected so strongly with this book is that I could see myself in the MC, Cassel.
I know that's probably not the best reason, but he usually did things as I would have, and his mind wasn't so different from mine.
So yeah, crime families are definitely my kind of thing.I'm going to stop right here, because this review is honestly just me fangirling like crazy over this wonderful book.
I have no idea why I set this one aside last year or maybe the year before after reading maybe a 1/3 of it. But I have been in SUCH a slump after reading The Coldest Girl in Town (easily 5 stars!) that I knew I just needed more Holly Black. And this time I was unable to put this one down! And I LOVE me some male YA pov too! Also enjoyed the boarding school atmosphere so A+ for that as well as the exciting and mostly unpredictable plot that held my interest throughout.
I got the impression that Ms Black was testing the waters a little bit and hopefully she’ll take the plunge and wallow in the grimy potential that these books have.
I did like Cassel though and I thought Ms Black/Mr E did a great job in portraying your bumblingness and your honesty… even if you are a little slow.
Ms Black seemed to set the groundwork for a slightly more unhinged Cassel (which, considering the circumstances… is perfectly understandable.) which, again, I hope gets developed in the next books.Recommended For.People who are looking for a great new series to sink their teeth into.
Chalk this one up as another triumph for goodreads recommendations.I find the fantasy world that she builds here to be very compelling and intricate, and since the main character starts out the book very much out of the loop, the details are allowed to assemble and grow slowly and organically with nary an infodump in sight.
Cassel is a member of a long line of curse-workers, and his two older brothers work for the Zacharov family, using their abilities to further the mafia’s illegal ends.
Cassel has to go back to live with his family now because of a nightly episode he had at school, and now that he's back he has a feeling things aren't what they seem; especially now that he keeps seeing a white cat...People who know me know that I really like reading about sibling relationships, and this book was no different.
Out of the two brothers, Phillip and Barron, I can't help but feel like Barron is the saddest of the characters of the whole book.
White Cat, the first book in the Curse Workers took me a little to get into but once I did, I found it an addictive story.
Cassel is part of a Curse Worker family; each with a different ability to affect a person with one touch.
The story takes off as Cassel’s memories start to unravel, and he starts digging into the secrets of the past.
The romance was not at the forefront of the story but always sort of there because of the place it occupies in Cassel’s mind, but I loved it.
*sigh*Everything came together and played out brilliantly in the end, and I loved Cassel’s cleverness.
Meh. Time has been kind to my opinion of White Cat, but I’m still not over the moon for it as so many other readers/reviewers seem to be. I can’t really put my finger on what’s missing, there’s just this general hum of something lacking. Given that, I suppose I can only provide my pros and cons list and let you readers decide for yourself.Strong points:1. The concept. It’s unique, interesting, and really, never before seen in YA UF, which makes it fun and fresh.2. Cassel. He makes for an interes
Meh. Time has been kind to my opinion of White Cat, but I’m still not over the moon for it as so many other readers/reviewers seem to be.
You want to shake Cassel for not piecing things together more quickly, and you become curios as to how he is going to exact his revenge.Weak points:1.
As interesting as he was in this installment, I have no doubt that my interest in him was due to the fact that he is shrouded in mystery.
The lack of revenge exacted by Cassel.
Holly Black created an alternate universe with the Curse Workers series, meaning Cassel's world is essentially our world with a few altered aspects.
After a lot of hidden world, where supernatural coexists right along our world without us knowing it, the Curse Workers is like finding something new and shiny in a box of junk you almost threw out.Everyone in Cassel's world wears gloves.
Our protagonist, Cassel, was born into a curse working family, which comes with a stereotype.
I can't even count off how many narrators I hated and got stuck with for two more books, but I never felt that way about Cassel.
I always have that head-desk moment after reading a book that I had been putting off and realize how much time I had wasted with the newly loved characters!
Anyway, so this wasn't like anything I can remember reading (at the moment).
The story is about a family of curse workers, meaning they have the magical ability to manipulate x, y, or z in a person.
All in all this is a book I would happily recommend to my fellow lovers of all things magical, and those who want that book that isn't the same as everything else.
If we think of ourselves as honest, we try harder.” and “The easiest lies to tell are the ones you want to be true.”) but it works, it genuinely does.Everything is not perfect here, despite my overwhelming love for the first in the inventive and fun Curse Worker's series - Holly Black is a talented and humorous storyteller, but her expertise doesn't encompass all there is to White Cat. For a novel about con men and deception, several of the twists and turns taken throughout are thoroughly predictable and/or transparent.
