https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/5821978-the-summer-i-turned-pretty
I mean, who DOESN'T understand when someone who is in pain turns to drinking and picking fights at parties?There is just something so alluring, so captivating, about Conrad, because what he does not say or do in words is immediately engraved in my ever-loving heart.
I am truly amazed by the way Jenny Han has a talent with words, and finally releasing reader's from their growing suspicion that something more was going on between Belly, Jeremiah, and Conrad:"Things had been weird with me and Conrad and also with me and Jeremiah-an impossible thought crept its way into my head.
Very few, maybe like one or two books (The Gargoyle being one) have been exempt from this number one rule of mine,  I want to know who is talking to me or who the story is about right away!
Oh wait I like Conrad's dark and brooding side, I change my mind, I like him better." That gets irritating right quick next to her feeling that life got better for her when she turned pretty.
No really, she felt  I'm pretty now, life is like sooooo good now!
I like seaside, beachfront, boardwalk settings, but that wasn't enough to hook me… I'd much prefer a Dessen book to provide me that fix.
One of the best books I've ever read :)EDIT: I keep getting notifications that people like this review and I wondered why, then after seeing other reviews I understood.
Here is the thing, I thought that if I read this book again now I wouldn't like it as much as me being mature and all that (put into a box in my brain labeled "lies I tell myself").
For that reason I didn't want to read To All the Boys I've Loved Before, but then the movie came along and all that fuss.
For that reason alone I think I'll always read anything she writes.
I didn't like this book.The thing that bother me the most was the girl, Belly, she was VERY annoying.
I couldn't swallow her.I wanted to like this, the writing was well done, the descrption of the setting was amazing, and there were a lot of cute and funny scenes, ALL OF THEM including Jeremiah (the other son), so I didn't get why Belly was so obsessed with Conrad anyway, he wasn't even an interesting character at all :|I dont need to be reading this, I've had enough Bella Swan for a lifetime.
Rating: 4 1/2 stars Characters: 5 stars Setting: 5 starsPlot: 4  Honourable Mention: To Susannah. For being the embodiment of summer, and pretty much perfect.  ***OOH, possible spoilers ahead guys, watch out!Well. So that was... I feel a lot like this:  Because I am sure of two things: 1.) I freaking love this series. And Conrad. I really freaking adore him, more than Jeremiah I am happy to say. Ah, to be young and fictionally in love...2.) This is my new favourite series. And three, because I'm
Let me start off by saying Cousin's beach is a place I most definitely have to go!I started off reading this with a bit of a raised brow because I didn't know if the importance Belly and everyone held for this place would rub off unto me or not.
Both Belly and Susannah were summer personified to me; summer at different stages.
This book was so good that I left thinking I would nick-name my baby Belly somehow.
I'll try reading a bit of Endless Summer again but if nothing comes of it, I'm dropping it like a hot potato.
This book made me want to cry tears of blood.Belly, if someone is hurting and tells you to stop talking, you don’t just kiss them. Also, if you and your friend overhear about his mother’s breast cancer, you don’t think thoughts like ‘oh, I hope she doesn’t loose a boob’No. Just, no.My husband does not approve of you.Low Points in this book: Belly. Girl, this is for being whiny and obnoxious. Also, for being a bitch to your mother and thinking that she would never ever do anything for you and for
This book made me want to cry tears of blood.Belly, if someone is hurting and tells you to stop talking, you don’t just kiss them.
Also, if you and your friend overhear about his mother’s breast cancer, you don’t think thoughts like ‘oh, I hope she doesn’t loose a boob’No. Just, no.My husband does not approve of you.Low Points in this book:
Since Cam is out of the picture, you’re obviously going to magically turn evil and fuck shit up and hurt Belly so she can hate you and have babies with Conrad.
4.5? 5? I don't even know, but this book read like a dream and I really enjoyed it. Also, I am terrified about what is going to happen in the later books.
3.5/5I was in the mood for a YA contemporary romance and this was perfect for that. I loved the story, even if most of the characters were not super developed. Just a good ol' YA contemporary romance.I liked Belly for the most part even though she was a little bratty at times, LOVED Jeremiah, liked Cam alright, and didn't really love Conrad most of the time. Overall, pretty alright! I'm excited to read the rest of the trilogy.
☼ An awesome summer read ☼This story was so cute!
Because she gets to meet her two favorite boys, Conrad and Jeremiah.I found Belly very amusing and fun to read about.
After reading too many paranormal romance novels, I believe I liked  contemporary romance a lot  as in everything was normal here.
Nothing far - fetched or complicated.If you love simple novels with cute lovable characters then this book is certainly perfect for you.
The Summer I turned pretty was a quick, enjoyable, entertaining and a summery read.
Like I mentioned earlier, it was an  awesome summer read!
She was literally such a pain in the neck, I think she was even more annoying than America from the Selection series and I actually thought that was impossible.All of this just made me feel like I was way too old for this book and I really don’t know if I’ll actually continue this series even though I liked the other characters.
But because of the main character and the fact that I felt a little too old for the entire story, I can only give TSITP 2.5 out of 5 stars.(PS: I’m sorry about the fact that half of this review is just me complaining about the MC but she was literally driving me insane!)
Hi, so this book isn't technically a five-star read.
I don't care about any of that though because this is the book I was reading before I was a reader.
This is the book that made me want to read.
This was the first book I read into the night.
I've read this book upwards of fifteen times and no matter what stage of my life I'm at, I love it.
So yeah, it isn't a perfect book and is the exact opposite of what I tend to lean towards nowadays but forever and ever and ever it will be a symbol of my love of reading and I will always be fond.
I read it in one sitting.
Jenny Han’s writing and stories usually do that.
I appreciate how the first book to this trilogy is more like a coming off age novel more than anything.
The writing actually reminds me of that of Shug, a middle school book written by Ms. Han which was completely endearing.
I can’t wait to read the second book which I’m doing exactly now.
One of the perks of getting sick- I get to stay at home and read all day long.
Perfect book to get me into the summer mindset! I started reading it this morning when I got to the beach and I didn't stop until I read the entire book. This book is about more than summer and romance, but also family, self, and loss. I enjoyed every single character and how they were more complex than they first appeared. I definitely want to read the rest of the series soon (and also go to the beach a couple dozen more times).
The story is a bit of a coming of age tale with a side of romance and family dynamics.Fifteen, almost sixteen, Isabelle or Belly as she’s always been known is ready for yet another summer at the beach.
Belly is obviously young and naive in the story and in some ways that made it seem a bit unbelievable as kids these days generally are more advanced at her age.
This in a way made this one feel a bit dated as if it were something from decades ago, along the lines of Dirty Dancing and Baby being naive and growing over the summer just without the dancing side.
Just some thoughts.Actual rating: 2.5 stars Belly:  Belly's pretty much clueless the whole time. She thinks the world revolves around her but it doesn't. She's shallow as hell. But for some reason, she doesn't annoy me too much. (She was getting on my nerves a lot toward the end of the book, though.) Overall, she's just an okay character.(view spoiler)[Though I can't believe how she treated Cam...she just abandoned him after using him for so long. What the heck? (hide spoiler)] I also don't get
(She was getting on my nerves a lot toward the end of the book, though.) Overall, she's just an okay character.(view spoiler)[Though I can't believe how she treated Cam...she just abandoned him after using him for so long.
And stop pining over Conrad all the time.
Conrad's pretty much selfish the whole time.
I was expecting something...between (view spoiler)[Conrad and Belly.
It's like reading about what Belly's schedule over and over again, which means swimming, movie, Cam, more Cam, pining, drooling over Conrad.
I'm confused here.Despite all that, I did like it, it was a quick and entertaining read.
Me explico:El verano en que me enamoré prometía ser una novela sencilla y rápida de leer, y lo ha sido.
Eso la verdad es que le ha dado otro toque a la novela y ha conseguido mover ciertas tramas.
Aunque de todos modos, luego vuelva a decaer...El romance está mal llevado prácticamente durante toda la novela, muchas situaciones son incoherentes y los personajes...
No he conseguido conectar con los personajes y he sentido que no ha pasado nada en toda la novela.
DNF at 30%I’m sorry to anyone who loved this book.
I’m glad you loved this book, really!
But this is what makes book world, book world; diversity in opinions.Okay, The summer I turned pretty is about a girl named Belly (I know), who every summer goes to this beach house they share with their mother’s best friend, who by chance has two swoon-worthy boys.
She complains that the boys didn’t play with her.
I remember when I was 12 I used to read these cheesy romance stories online where the author named her characters Tune, Pride, etc..
4.5 This book really surprised me. I loved it! Like CAN I HAVE A CONRAD... (Preferably One who doesn't smoke)
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/  “It was a summer I’d never, ever forget. It was the summer everything began. It was the summer I turned pretty. Because for the first time, I felt it. Pretty, I mean. Every summer up to this one, I believed it’d be different. Life would be different. And that summer, it finally was.” Obviously I was not the target demographic for this story, but lemme tell you, it doesn’t even matter. I was all like . . . . . And totally channeled my
It was the summer I turned pretty.
Every summer up to this one, I believed it’d be different.
I actually ended up downloading The Summer I Turned Pretty after deciding I needed to read To All the Boys I’ve Loved Before when I discovered it was a Netflix movie.
(Of course because it is now a Netflix movie I’m like 17th on the wait list for it.) I read this back-up plan straight through and thought it was a quality summer-fluff type of read.
If you are a fan of YA who wants to read about summer lovin’ and don’t mind a super cliffy ending, this might be the perfect selection for a day when .
What a perfect summer beach read!
Belly is 15 about to turn 16 and spends every summer at the beach with her mom’s family friend, who has two sons, Jeremiah and Conrad.
The complicated relationships there are the focus of the book.
Belly has had a crush on older son Conrad since forever, but he’s two years older and mostly sees her as pretty annoying.
And in all fairness, Belly is definitely the least mature of the group, but then she’s also the youngest.
I could see Jenny Han turning Belly into an awesome character like Lara Jean as she grows up and matures.
where the fuck am i?oh righti eye rolled myself into another dimension
I wish I had ten thousand middle fingers so I could give them all to this book.
The Summer I Turned Pretty is the first book in a YA series that by all accounts, seems to be well-loved and incredibly popular.It’s your typical teenage love-triangle set against a pretty backdrop of sea, sun and sand, and not a whole lot else.
With these types of books, when we all know what’s going to happen, it’s the characters and dialogue that really make the story.It’s a pity then, that I so intensely disliked Isabel.She was, to put it bluntly, a brat.
Conrad doesn’t treat Isabel badly, he treats her like she is: a whiney kid.
284 pages where absolutely nothing happened.I originally wanted to give it a star, but well, at least I finished the book, so this is me being nice.
I've read many books with annoying-but-bearable protagonists, but this one made me want to pull my own hair out.Edit: I changed my mind, bye.Belly wasn't that bad, but whenever I tried to like her, she immediately did something entirely stupid and I just had to hate her all over again.
Like how many boys was she interested in at the same time?
The whole thing couldn't actually have been only about a very annoying Isabel and her constant complaints of her long-time crush not liking back....
It's one of those books that guarantee's you butterflies and giggles.Every summer Belly visits cousins Beach with her mother and brother.
There they meet up with Susannah (her mothers best friend) and her two boy's, Conrad and Jeremiah.
Belly has always loved Conrad.
To not want to hold Susannah.Reading it a second time did bring a few things to my attention.
But a lot of the time I tried to hold back frustration when it came to knowing how much of a mess the last book would be.
A book hasn't made me feel like that in a long time.
"I think he would have stayed with her forever, trying to figure out the mystery. He was a puzzle solver, the kind of person who likes theorems, theories. X always had to equal something. It couldn't just be X". Isabel "Belly" measures her life in summers, it has always been the most important time of the year. Everything good, everything magical and everything special happens between the months of June and August. It's when her family shares a beach house with her mother's best friend, Susanna
Like Belly's older brother, Steven, Susannah's boys have always thought of Belly as their younger sister.
Jeremiah and Conrad; they are the boys that Belly has known since her very first summer - they have been her brother figures, her crushes, and everything in between.
But one summer, one wonderful and terrible summer, everything changes.A beautiful book that hit me right in the feels.I couldn't decide whether to give this 4 or 5 stars, so I'm settling for 4.5/5As usual, I cried like a baby and I absolutely cannot wait to read the second book.
😩📚Oh and guys, I have a crush on Conrad...
2 Bad Jenny Han STARS"It's the imperfections that make things beautiful." POP SUGAR READING CHALLENGE 2016 A BOOK THAT TAKES PLACE DURING SUMMERNo hay mucho que decir de este libro, porque la historia no dice mucho realmente.
Yo buscaba una lectura ligera por eso escogí esta, pero no me imagine que tan ligera sería, los últimos capítulos tienen un poquito de drama, pero hasta eso se siente ligero.
Tenia planeado darle las 3 estrellas, pero le baje una por una simple razón: (view spoiler)[Los triángulos amorosos no me molestan, lo que me molesta es que la chica siempre se quede con el chico mas predecible, aunque este chico sea de lo peor.
Awe, this was a great book! Very relatable and surprisingly heart breaking. There's just something about ocean air and summer days that make growing up easier. I loved this story.
Re-read 8/1/17: I needed a fast, fun re-read after the chaos of booktubeathon and this perfectly fit the bill for me. I'm keeping my rating at 4 stars because while I did have some issues with it, I still enjoyed this SO much. Also older Chelsea is over Conrad's shit tbh. It's all about Jeremiah now. JUSSSS SAYIN'Original read 4/25/14: *hugs myself* oh, conrad
I MUST READ #2 NOW
