https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/702539.Get_Shorty
Unfortunately, Bo Catlett has also been dreaming of breaking into the film industry and starts trying to drive Chili away from Harry with the idea of taking over the project.The surface level of this is funny enough with its core idea of a gangster trying to get into the movie business, but where it achieves greatness is the twist it takes once Chili meets Michael.
As usual, you also get all the hallmarks of Leonard in his prime with great dialogue and memorable characters.Of course, the ultimate fitting end to Leonard’s satirizing of Hollywood is that this was eventually turned into a hit film.
It's only the second Elmore Leonard book I've read, but already I'm a convert.The story is that Chili Palmer is a Miami loan shark who ends up in Los Angeles, trying to track down a guy who owes him money.
Chili has an idea for a movie based on his experiences as a shylock, and a major star likes the story.What was especially fun about this book was how meta it was about the movie industry.
Elmore Leonard wrote the book based on his experiences with Hollywood, and there are some good jokes made about actors and producers.(Sorry, I was interrupted while working on this and some people saw this review only half-written.
Without so much description of their personas as actual lines of dialogue that exposes them richly, Leonard pretty much knew this one had Hollywood adaptation written all over it.
Heck, the novel is all about Hollywood adaptations.
So, although plenty of the circumstances that ricochet all over the "thematic fabric" seem laughable & flighty in the book, the inhabitants and their zippy, sarcastic, semiShakespearean lines make it an undoubted and resounding success.
Also, I must mention that not in a long while in my most recent memory had I thought: Damn it if this novel couldn't've been several (a good deal several) pages longer!!
A Leonard revival followed with Jackie Brown and Out of Sight on film and Karen Sisco and Justified on TV.The 1995 film version of Get Shorty hovers over the source material like an atmospheric disturbance in the Gulf and while far from reinventing the book -- most of the characters, much of the story, a lot of the dialogue and all of the spirit are the same -- screenwriter Scott Frank, producers Michael Shamberg, Stacy Sher & Danny DeVito and director Barry Sonnenfeld definitely improved on it.
She starred in all three of my Slime Creatures releases you might have seen."The guy, Chili was nodding as he came forward to lean on the desk."I think I got an idea for one, a movie."And Harry said, "Yeah?
A night swim alone near the ocean in the rain: how could you want that to end?) But more to the point I’m making, I pick the books I read on these trips with a purpose.
They have to fit the mood but they have to be friends too, they have to sit by my plate at meals— to show it’s okay I’m eating alone— but never read through the meals because they’ve started too many conversations.And the whole trip, I didn’t eat a meal alone.
It makes me feel like maybe that’s the basic law everywhere.
It's so funny I thought my pants would never dry.The main character, Chili Palmer is just so cool.
This is about Hollywood meets the Mob. Chili goes to Hollywood chasing a guy who owes him money.
Along the way Chili meets some low level movie types and decides the movie life might be the go for him.
Before long Chili goes into the movie business and the film producers all want to be mobsters.
It's a farce but what an entertaining farce it is.During his life Elmore Leonard was long associated with the movie industry and had some serious run-ins with the moguls of the industry.
He and his ex-wife Debbie liked the benefits that came with the respect locals and business people had for him when they were aware of who Chili worked for - at least until Debbie got pregnant.
However, Debbie overheard and decided her miscarriage happened because Chili was still working for the Brooklyn crew.
The story moves forward, and so do Chili and Leo, to Los Angeles where after many amusing and amazing turns of plot later, Chili ends up getting into the movie business.
George Higgins might have been an influence on the late, great Elmore Leonard but, for me at least, there is no-one who nails dialogue quite like Duke.
It's a great regret that I never got to meet the man because he's a hero.
Opening lines, pacing, plotting - he could do all of it, and it seemed to be completely effortless.
His Ten Rules are in full effect here and they contribute to a rollicking, roller-coastering read that completely blew me away when I read it for the first time (and the second time, and the third).
As an entree to the great man's work, this is a good choice.
It has all the noir elements you'd find in a Raymond Chandler novel, but not only none of the darkness, but humor enough for smiles throughout.
Hurting people who don't pay shouldn't be necessary when all you have to do is look at them with that certain look.Neither is this any sort of stereotypical crime novel.
Which are the good guys and which the bad isn't as obvious as it should be.
Or at least it isn't as obvious when they are introduced, and, then, well, maybe...
But then, maybe being a shylock isn't the only job in the world.This was just too fun!
I love just about all the books this guy has ever written. His characters are quirky and colorful, his plots always a bit offbeat. And this story of a small-time hood trying to break into the movie business as a producer is no exception. Elmore leonard is considered a crime writer, yet his characters are rarely (if ever) detectives, policemen, or private eyes. Now that's a challenge! He is definitely a one-of-a-kind author.It's no wonder that Hollywood has made so many movies out of his books!
Elmore Leonard is an author whose work I need to discover more of and having read the first Raylan Givens novel, Pronto as well as now Get Shorty, he’s already turning out to be one of my thriller writers. Like the blurb describes, nobody can write opening lines like this guy and he’s just so good. He finds a way of drawing you in, keeping you hooked and telling a compelling story that you won’t be able to put down.Like many of Leonard’s novels Get Shorty has been adapted into a film and I dec
It’s great to see how meta this book can get at times particularly with its focus on Hollywood and it’s interesting to learn that Leonard wrote this book based on his own experiences, managing to incorporate good jokes about the people that work in the industry.The story focus on Ernesto “Chili” Palmer a man in Miami Beach, a loan shark who earned his nickname for his temper, and you can probably guess what problems this means for the character over the course of the book.
Fast paced, action packed. Never a dull moment. Pretty amused that it captures a screenplay within a screenplay. I never realized it was so Hollywood. Also, more Fun than I was expecting!
A fast-paced, funny book that's a mix of gangsters and the Hollywood movie scene. Good writing, with interesting characters and dialogue.
Besides, he has a killer idea for a movie and this is the town where dreams can come true…or do they?It is no secret that Elmore Leonard has a bitter opinion towards Hollywood and Get Shorty allowed him to vent his feelings.
Despite what Leonard may have thought about the movie industry, Get Shorty turned into one of the great satires depicting Hollywood.
This lead the way to a range of great Elmore Leonard adaptations, from Jackie Brown, Out of Sight, Be Cool, 3:10 to Yuma and the TV show Justified.Get Shorty is probably one of the best modern crime novels I have read in a long time.
8/5 - I had real trouble getting into the plot and unusual dialogue style and ended up giving up at page 95. I'm not sure if it was the book or my preoccupation with my recovery, so one day (hopefully this year) I'll give it another go.
At one point, an alternative title for this book appears in the movie: Chili Palmer's Adventures in Hollywood, and that would be have been appropriate.
I loved his book because I loved the character of Chili Palmer, the worldly-wise loan shark from back East who fit in so well with the crazed world of Hollywood.Get Shorty by Elmore Leonard is all about Chili, who originally comes out west after a dry cleaning shop owner gets wealthy by not being in a famous plane crash, though his luggage was.
He left for Vegas leaving loan shark debts piling up, and Chili Palmer in hot pursuit.
Really funny, Elmore is great.
I enjoyed watching the character Chili, but I was disappointed with unfinished events at the end.The value of this book is watching a collection of characters and the shallowness of movie-making.
Chili doesn’t invest money in this partnership, but he has a strange way of making things happen.
I like the way Chili responds when he’s in danger, how he quietly talks or doesn’t talk to the threat.I was intrigued that Chili was able to talk to an A-list movie star when others couldn’t get to him.
Chili had a way that got the guy interested.PLOTS:I wanted more of a traditional plot.
Elmore Leonard.
****.This was a re-read for me of a Leonard novel that I first read when it was published in 1990.
It was also fortunate that I happened to catch Leonard at a reading/signing for this book.
He had lots of stories about Hollywood, which is the setting for this novel.
Leonard often said that all of his novels had at least been optioned for films.
He let the Hollywood folks do their thing, while he did his.
“Get Shorty” is an excellent crime novel that was made into a hit film starring John Travolta and Gene Hackman.
I mean, I guess if you like reading about how movies are made (kinda), then you might like some of the scenes, but man...I just don't get it.
The actual plot, when it showed up, was pretty good - there were just so many scenes when nothin' much happened.
I'll read a few other books and then come back to Pronto or something that's a bit more in line with the action on the TV show.
After all, all them Star Wars books on my bookshelf ain't gonna read themselves.
I had been meaning to read Elmore Leonard for years, ever since seeing movies like Reservoir Dogs and Pulp Fiction.
It was pretty good, but a really light read.What makes Leonard's writing shine is the dialogue; you've heard the overused "dialogue crackles" rave?
Well Leonard really delivers...this is why his novels make such successful movies: they read like them.This is a novel perfect for those who typically prefer movies over novels.I prefer the depth of Michael Connelly or Greg Iles or Dennis Lehane myself.
But this is an entertaining story and certainly holds your attention, and before you know it, it's over.Just like a good movie.
I read it sometime around it's release, so let me guess 1991. It reads like a book that wants to be a movie... which it did become... it was probably optioned even before it was written... it pretty much defined hackwork for me, so I could know what popular hackwork reads like. Not that I recall the plot.
Three and a half stars.
Chilie Palmer is debt collector of the old school.
His philosophy is you don't have to break people's legs to get them to pay, just make them think you are.
Of course if they really don't pay, then their legs get broken.
He want's to get out of the business and when a job takes him to southern California, he thinks he would like to get into the movie business.
An obstacle appears when a gangster comes looking for Chilie to settle a grudge.
This is a light-hearted humorous satire of the criminal world and Hollywood Recommended.
Loan shark Chili Palmer seems like a guy I could sit down and have a conversation with. This book turns mob connections, crimes and the big city perils into quite an adventure.
Three days.
Probably a day.This was fun.
Typical crime caper tropes with the characters all being somehow conveniently tied together.
Even the Leonard trope where some dude gets shot outta nowhere by the bad guy at the half time mark.
But the meta-fiction stuff was pretty cool, and never treated like something pretentious to gloat about.
Like it was good enough for you to be intrigued about it but not so good that when we focused on the real story i would be missing the little fake story.
Michael Weir was another great character.
Great stuff elmore.Still like Mr.Majestik better.
They will make a movie about a debt-ridden gambler who is thought to be dead in a plane crash but who missed the flight and then fled to Vegas with the money paid out to his “widow.” Art follows Life!But there is an alternative.
A mule from Mexico arrived at the LA airport and, as agreed, put a satchel with almost $150,000 in cocaine into a locker and gave the key to Bo. Bo wants to use it in a good cause, and his choice is to use it to finance the “good script.” But he wants Chili out of the way so he can have only one partner—-Harry.
Elmore Leonard has the reputation of being a good writer of crime fiction, but this one may not be one of those. The setting, Hollywood, and the plot, small time loan sharks and enforcers who suddenly are channeling their movie producer alter egos, never took flight for me. Too much sappy dialogue, characters not all that interesting. I wanted to say "CUT. Let's try it again."
Entertaining, funny, tongue-in-cheek collision of the twinned fraudulent worlds of the small time hood and the small time Hollywood hanger-on, with a menagerie of only partially self-aware characters in the best Leonard tradition.
It's a romp in the grand old fashion, and it's easy to see why this was such a hit as a movie-- Hollywood loves nothing more than proving it's hip to its own faults, and Leonard's acerbic take on the grimy, desperate world that springs up in the shadows of the mega-studios is so pitch perfect that it made for prime movie material.
This novel is the first appearance (to my knowledge) of “Chili Palmer” who also appears in Elmore Leonard’s novel Be Cool.These two novels were never my favorite Elmore Leonard books mainly because both novels were the 1st I sensed that my favorite contemporary author of crime fiction was working from someone else’s research material.
This guy I enjoyed reading about.Despite all of that it’s an Elmore Leonard novel and it’s a pleasure to read.It’s just not up to his earlier high standards or those of his later novels.It’s a bump in the groove of an otherwise perfect track record for our finest post-World War II crime-fiction author.
Leonard's language is American, modern, stylised and for me a bit difficult to get into.
But I loved 'Get Shorty', it made me laugh out loud.
That puzzled him a bit, but afterwards he said 'It is, isn't it, because that's what starts it all off!'.
His sheer cheek carries him through and you have to love him for it.
The story of shady characters wheeling and dealing in Hollywood is told with wit and style and a lot of dark humour.
I've tried one or two other Leonard novels since and still find his language difficult to get into.
