https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/71332.Push
It was heinous and disgusting but I really think the author wanted everyone who read this book to feel raped along with Precious so that we can just - feel raped.
After all, what is the purpose of such a novel if not to create awareness of such heinous events and propel this awareness to form organizations that educate girls like Precious on understanding that what they are experiencing is wrong and criminal; and there is a way out?Forcing the reader to feel raped simply does just that - abuses the reader.
More urban fiction: ghetto girl's acrylics scratch eyes out of baby father's new crack-addicted girlfriend, I thought.
It isn't, as most good writing is, just a vehicle to convey the material as much as a vibrant and necessary component of the story.
It is a wonderful book on every level, not just the writing, or the story, or the tremendous creation of Precious - antithesis of a heroine, a 250lb girl who describes herself as too dark and ugly, and whose taste in clothes is appalling (but hopeful, fluorescent yellow leggings and a leather jacket) but also the ending.
The flaws were far too many and the plot was eye brow rising, and did explain why my students make some of the mistakes they do.Yet this type of work is important because it reflects something about society.Yet this genre also includes a book such as Precious, a book I will use in my classes.The book is not an easy read for two reasons.
Using language in the strictest terms of communication, and she deserves award after award for this.If the spelling was perfect, the book would lack half of its impact, if not more.Some idiots, and I use this word intentionally, will say a story like this could never happen.BULLSH**!I have taught people who came from where Precious comes from.
I can't remember exactly when I threw this book across the room for the first time - was it when Precious' mom beats her?
when her father rapes her and she gets pregnant?
when he rapes her again and she gets pregnant again and the baby has down-syndrome?
when she finds out the baby has AIDS?
when she finds out SHE has AIDS?
when she finally learns to read and then begins writing lots of broken poetry, all of which is included in the book?
I've never read a book which I felt so exploited human missery; Saphine wields it like a sledge-hammer to the reader's skull.
If anything, Precious Jones and her story illustrate how savagely we precipitate violence upon each other.
Me reading this story, as fictionalized as it may be, does not change the fact that somewhere a Precious is experiencing the violence and shame and suffering that no person should ever have to endure.
But it doesn't change the fact that I can still close my eyes, kiss my children, get into my SUV and go to the park, make a steak, go on vacation, make love to a woman that loves me back, and forget that people like Precious will never get to do these things.
I was going to write up a Celebrity Death Match between Sapphire and Dave Pelzer for the title of Most Abused Child Ever, but on second thoughts, silence is golden.One last thing. I remember reading Push and watching The Wire during the same week had a strange effect on me which for a white English male was not a good thing. A work colleague asked me if Push was any good and I barked at him bitch be messin my mind and shit .
For the longest time "Precious" was my favorite "modern" (2008 & up) movie.
It had the gospel&church-strong power to compel me to immediately look upon my own life reflexively, and pronounce it all not too bad after all.
Other souls are in peril, of course, and all I can do is complain about my own vapid existence!
In truth, the movie adaptation is a horror film disguised as Oscar-baiting melodrama.
It's powerful; a very visceral kick to the gut.
& the book is no different.
Sure, it's devoid that once in a lifetime performance by M'onique.
Reading the New Yorker piece effectively shattered my skull, bludgeoning my brain into a tenderized and confused lump of quaking grey gristle.Push is written in the voice of an impoverished, illiterate, uncared for, despised, abused, obese, neglected, friendless, and seriously fucked teenage black girl living in 1980s Harlem -- ground zero, at that time, of racialized poverty, the crack epidemic, AIDS, and pretty much every other attendant inner-city nightmare you can think of.
I'm very curious to see whether the writing still exerts the same power and force I remember, and also whether my own aging and experiences in the years since will have changed my response to what seemed like serious flaws on my first read.
The vulgarity was definitely over the top and very harsh...it did make me cringe a bit, but I pushed through it.What was the hardest for me, and likely for most readers, was the absolute raw and brutal honesty with which the abuse was treated in this novel.
They live in a welfare situation where Precious is essentially a slave to her mother's whims.The first chapter (and additional passages scattered throughout the book) are graphic, raw, and absolutely stunning.
At the same time, I can't "not" recommend it...or rather, if somebody (with adequate maturity/sensitivities) picked up the book and asked if it was worth reading, my answer is YES.This is a hard book to get through due to emotional and moral sensitivities.
I'm a big fan of books written in vernacular if the voice rings true and the book is short.
Rest assured, though, all errors and broken syntax is on purpose.Push (or the movie tie-in title Precious), by Sapphire, is an emotionally-charged look at a sexually-abused girl and her struggle to become literate and do better for her and her children.
The book is written from this molested teenager's point of view, so you will experience her growth both in the areas of reading and maturation.
Highly recommended with the caveat that this novel is sometimes hard to read due to both content and intended spelling and grammatical errors.
Κι όμως, ενδόμυχα, ξέρεις ότι συμβαίνουν• ίσως, γιατί ανέφεραν τις προάλλες κάτι σχετικό στις ειδήσεις, ή γιατί είχες διαβάσει κάποτε κάτι αντίστοιχα τραγικό στην εφημερίδα• ίσως πάλι, γιατί από νωρίς έμαθες ότι από όλους τους ήρωες των παραμυθιών των παιδικών σου χρόνων, οι μόνοι που θ’ απαντήσεις μεγαλώνοντας είναι οι δράκοι• γιατί, τελικά, όσο υψηλή και να ‘ναι η σκέψη σου, ο δρόμος σου θα ναι πάντα γεμάτος θυμωμένους θεούς, Κύκλωπες και Λαιστρυγόνες• γιατί, αλίμονο, «όμορφος κόσμος ηθικός αγγελικά πλασμένος» είναι μόνο αυτός που είδε ο ποιητής αντικρύζοντας το φυσικό κάλλος μιας ιδανικής κόρης.Στη ‘Μονάκριβη’ ιδανική κόρη δεν υπάρχει, ούτε, βέβαια, ιδανικές ανθρώπινες σχέσεις ή οικογένειες.
I love this book.
I hate this book.
It took me 3 weeks to read this huge short book.
He is, as the Sweet Potato Queens would call him, "A Blood Spud." All I know is I kept putting it down to bawl, to mourn the loss of every child who is born to monsters like Mary and that man.
The fact that it is "just" fiction doesn't matter a lick.
The reality base for this fiction is haunting and painful.
I hope I am like Miz Rain to the kids who come into my classroom in that kind of pain.
Thank goodness this book was short. There was a profound moment here and there, and I get what the author was trying to achieve, but this book rose little above the category of misery porn. The entire book can be summarized in one line: bad stuff happens to Precious. And, I'm sorry, but the *constant* references to, erm, intimate smells, was nauseating.
I avoid the hype around vogue books and authors, but this one delivered the goods.The language is definitely vulgar, violent and hyper-sexual, but the voice...my goodness!
I'd never compare a book to "Adventures of Huckleberry Finn", but it is ironic that Sapphire mentions Twain's great book because the use of voice "Push"/"Precious" is incredible.
Generally you'll see an author establish a voice for their protaganist very early and then you'll hear it fade away, maybe arise later in the action.
Maybe she's more like Huck than I thought.I actually listened to this book through iTunes and the narrator was the best I've ever encountered in a fiction book-on-CD.
Poignant and unapologetically raw. Precious' ability to keep fighting against such dire odds both amazed and inspired me. This is a story I will never forget, and I truly look forward to the film adaptation.
In its own quiet way, Push manages to say as much about literary history and form (and especially African American literary history and form) as it does about the troubling social circumstances that constitute the world -- that is, our world -- in which girls like Precious live.
Sapphire never allows her book to distract from the fact that Precious's account isn't really for the "reader," but for the girl herself.
In a sense, Push is about what novels by black American authors have always been about: language, representation, freedom.
Beautiful and devastating.
The narrator, Precious, is abused in unspeakable ways by her parents, but she is also the smartest, funniest, most insightful and vibrant voice I've read in a very long time.
In spite of being violated, she manages to soar above it all, telling it like it is and demonstrating just how powerful a person can be when she educates herself and makes peace with her demons.
Also, her story shows just how much positive influence a good teacher and the sharing of the written word, can have.
Holy hell this book hits you straight in the guts right from the beginning and doesn't let up. Raw and powerful the writing style gives it an authenticity that gets to you, although it got slightly on my nerves after awhile. You immediately feel sorry for this poor girl. The abuse...too much at times, ugly awful. So glad there is a a silver lining at the end of all this with a glimmer of hope to hang onto
Precious is sixteen years old,illiterate and pregnant for the second time with her father`s child. She is beaten and sexually abused by both her parents and bullied at school. She believes she is ugly and worthless. Then she is placed in an alternative teaching programme, where she learns to read and write. This is a harrowing read but I admire the way the author, Sapphire, constructed her writing and really allowed Precious to shine. You will cheer Precious to the end as she learns to love herself and strive for a better life for herself and her children.
Maltratada física e psicologicamente pela mãe, Precious é uma adolescente obesa, analfabeta e vítima de um sem número de infortúnios, que parece improvável que se abatam sobre a mesma pessoa.No entanto, a verdadeira é a força motriz desta história é a coragem e determinação com que Precious reage às adversidades, numa luta sem hesitações para construir um futuro melhor para si e para os seus filhos.O livro fala de outras mulheres sofridas, colegas de turma de Precious, e em cada das suas histórias se torna evidente que é a esperança de conseguir construir um futuro melhor e diferente que nos permite lutar pelos nossos sonhos e contornar todos os obstáculos que se nos impõem.
Acredito, sim, que os nossos fardos se tornam mais leves se os dividirmos com quem nos ama, da mesma força que somos mais corajosos e determinados quando temos objectivos a alcançar.
I feel fifty-fifty about the novel, PUSH.
It tells an inspiring story about how reading and writing can save you from any situation you might encounter, no matter how tough.
As an English teacher, I have to support that message!
Sometimes while reading this book, I felt that Precious kept encountering more and more obstacles just so that the author, Sapphire, could play with readers' emotions.
I also felt that she used curse words just because she wanted readers to feel stunned.
I would recommend this book for the story, but I'm not completely sure about the delivery of that story.
The story is a typical ghetto tragedy of a young uneducated girl who's raped by her father and severely abused (also raped) by her mother.
I myself am not so easily convinced.Also Precious Jones' ignorant talk sounded more like bad ghetto Yorkshire than a girl who is simply ignorant and uneducated.
One thing I did like about the story is how the teacher had each of girls create a private journal as a way for them to communicate back and forth and express themselves about difficult issues they weren't comfortable talking about face to face with their teacher or counselors/social workers.
I am the original author of this essay, as well as the owner of CCLaP; it is not being reprinted illegally.)Here in Chicago, the Uptown neighborhood where I live is still chock-full of lower-class black families, a situation that originally developed during the "ghettoization" of this neighborhood in the white-flight 1950s; and so among other things, this has led my neighborhood library to stock an entire wall of what they call "African-American Literature," an endless series of horribly bad melodramas that all seem to have covers featuring shirtless gangsters draped in gaudy gold jewelry, with titles like Dark Chocolate and Thug Daddy and with ashamed authors hiding behind such one-word pseudonyms as "Diamond" and "Tiger." And every time I spy this wall of books, I always think to myself, "Why would someone actually read trash like this?" Given how many challenges the average black person in America faces every day just from the mere act of existing, why would they then want to so profoundly reinforce the lazy stereotypes about their race by voluntarily reading such worthless, insulting potboilers?
This is a hard book to tackle due to its subject matter (incest, abuse, disease, poverty and more), but I was prepared for that and I found it to be sad but not heavy, if that makes sense.
And I love that the writing style immerses you in the character's head completely and without apology, making it a unique read, which is hard to find these days.
I wanted the book to be longer and more complete, and I have a feeling that, although I haven't seen the movie yet, the film version of "Precious" will create that better end structure I was left craving from the novel.
Several years ago, when I was still in high school and believed that although the world wasn't wholly good, it wasn't too bad either, I came across a news item of an eight-year old girl in a Middle East country, who was repeatedly raped by her father, and thus made pregnant as well.
The bonding she develops with Ms. Rain and the other students is very touching.Precious starts off being unable to read and write.
By the end of Push, she has mastered basic English and started writing poems.It is occasionally hard to believe that Precious is only sixteen.
I can see why some would cringe and give this a lower rating or review due to the graphic content; however, I see every word in this novel as important and integral to the direction of the story.In a way, it is a typical "harsh reality" book about a person who is struggling who meets someone that makes a difference in his or her life.
This made me think about why I was born in to my family, a family that values love, respect, education and faith.
With the meeting of an extraordinary teacher Precious is finally "seen" and starts to receive the help and encouragement that she so desperately deserves.
Learning not only how to read and write about her life but how to make it on her own for the first time.
Despite everything Precious’s spirit is very real and you can’t help but cheer for her and hope for the best.PUSH is the book that the recent academy award winning film "Precious" was based upon and although I haven't seen the movie yet, out of the two I would recommend the movie.
Perhaps that's the danger in a overwhelming topic such as this; our minds push away something so difficult -- our own form of survival, so just imagine what the people who endure the things Precious did have to do to survive.
We become inured to hearing about such things, and we need to remember these are children who are being abused and not helped.I do feel like the author had an 'agenda,' but that doesn't take away from what she accomplished, or mean that what she wrote about isn't true -- I know it is.
When I first read this book many years ago, I was initially drawn in by the raw and uncompromising story of a young girl whose life wasn't even remotely happy or positive.
But when I overlaid my initial titillation and genuine curiosity with a more critical consideration of this book, I didn't think it was anything more than a bit of over-hyped sensationalism.
There are writers who, with less obviousness and far more literary panache, can shock us just as deeply, but on that cerebral level that this book just doesn't seem able to touch.
The main character is Precious who is an illiterate sixteen year old on a quest for learning and self improvement.She has been abused her whole life and now has two children by her own father she would like to provide for.The book is a little hard to follow in places because it is written in Precious's own style via her journal (including spelling mistakes, swearing, local dialect etc).
This was great as it added authenticity and a kind of mutual respect for misunderstandings - her voice was as alien to me as mine would be to her which helped me understand her sense of confusion.Hard hitting but very moving story.
