https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/184350.My_Life
That said, it doesn't take a Trotskyist (or even a "TrotskyITE") to enjoy this book.Think for a moment about living in a house with dirt floors; mud walls three feet thick in which snakes, some of them poisonous, dwell; but you have servants.
This is the middle class home into which Trotsky was born.Initially loathe to broadcast the particulars of his life, which he considered irrelevant, he was eventually coaxed into giving it up so that he could incorporate his ideas into the book.
Puede ser un pequeño libro de historia de los acontecimientos que llevaron a la revolución rusa de 1917 hasta la consolidación de la URSS, desde uno de sus principales participantes (algo bastante atípico).
Nacido en Ucrania, hijo de granjeros, se convirtió en uno de los más notables personajes del siglo XX, al ser parte fundamental de la revolución que daría nacimiento a la URSS.
Independientemente de si uno esta o no de acuerdo con sus ideales políticos se le debe de dar el crédito como uno de los grandes forjadores de la historia del siglo XX.
Trotsky's brilliance is on full show throughout, and this is ram-packed of political insight and inspiration, though read as a curiosity or as literature it has its shortcomings.
These are the most personal pages of the book.As the story moves toward Trotsky's political career, the tone becomes more polemical.
Luckily, Trotsky is a great polemicist and there was an evident necessity for some polemic in this book.
Nevertheless, I couldn't help but wish that Trotsky had maintained some of the personal tone and stylistic creativity of the early parts rather than moving in the direction of political memoir which is leavened with only occasional glimpses into his personal life.
Some of the stories are merely informative while others are positively inspiring, like Trotsky's daring escape by reindeer from his second Siberian exile or his wartime command of the entire Soviet Army by train.
Love him or hate him, Leon Trotsky breaks down his life, trials, triumphs, and tribulations from his early childhood on the family farm to his final exile from the Soviet Union following the death of V.I. Lenin with the meticulous care of an intellectual and a journalist, two of the lesser known aspects of Trotsky's life.
But one that ends far too soon...like the life of Comrade Trotsky.
Um excelente livro pessoal e politico.
leon trotski ya be ghole khode russ ha:lev trotski'i!tarikhe enghelabo khoondam hamintor yaddashthaye roozane,commune paris va barnameye enteghali.zendegie mano tooye avale rahnamayi khoondam va avale daneshgah dobare moroor kardam.kheili baram jale budeh va hast nasresh va zehni ke dare.dar morede shakhsiate siasish bahsi nadarm inja.fagahat mitoonam begam man trotskist nistam amma trotski ra doost daram;)
Троцкий вызывает симпатию и пишет бодро, но из мемуаров конечно понятно, почему его убили и почему он проиграл соперничество со Сталиным. Чтобы настолько плохо относится ко всем, с кем работаешь (Дзержинский, Бухарин, Зиновьев, Каменев, разумеется сам Сталин), нужно даже очень постараться.
I had just given birth to my daughter and asked my partner to bring a book into hospital for me to read - he bought me this... typical of him and just right for me.
Loving Trotsky is a guilty pleasure.
Reading this was quite an interesting experience. I both lost and gained a lot of respect for Trotsky.
Livre extraordinaire non pas seulement d'un révolutionnaire mais d'un véritable écrivain. À lire sans modération. Peu de gens ont changé comme lui l'histoire du Monde. Quelle vie ! Peu importe ce qu'est ensuite devenu l'URSS. Lisez un roman d'une vie extraordinaire. C'est déjà pas mal non plutôt que de donner des leçons ?
In all honesty, I tend not to read autobiographies for enjoyment. Attribute it to my major of History and my constant reading of autobiographies and biographies for my education. Also attribute it to my belief that we all embellish, twist, misperceive, misunderstand, or exasperate the situations, relations, and occurrences of our own life when committing the truth of the memory to the written word.  “My Life” was an exception. Trotsky’s autobiography seemed imperative to read, just as Karl Marx’
Attribute it to my major of History and my constant reading of autobiographies and biographies for my education.
After reading Isaac Deutscher’s three volume biography of Trotsky It seemed only natural that I read Trotsky’s life story written from his perspective.
Written during his exile years in Mexico when Trotsky still continued to critique and oppose the Stalin controlled Soviet Union, “My Life,” not only chronicles Trotsky’s life but embodies the struggles against Stalinism.
An autobiography will never be objective, and at least Trotsky admits his own subjectivity throughout the book, however, it still casts skepticism on events.
but i think he preferred the power of the prince as opposed to the constraints of kingship.even if you don't agree with his politics you have to admire the man for his honesty and conviction.
speaking of honesty, it has been said, by Isaac Deutscher, that Trotsky commented that if there failed to be a revolution after WWII, then he would have to declare the Marxist version of the infolding of history, false.
the same was said about U.S. Grant, who is also to be admired, as much for his humanity as his brutality in combat.
Правдив ли Троцкий перед читателем? Со своей стороны он не может ошибаться. Но проще не говорить до конца, чтобы создать нужное о себе представление. Именно таким образом поступает Троцкий, рассказывая историю жизни. У читателя сложится впечатление, будто автор мемуаров существовал в ограниченной от всего среде. Он борется за что-то, не обосновывая мотивов. Троцкий игнорирует действия царских чиновников, не обращает внимания на политическую составляющую соперников по идеологии, он трудится во имя личных устремлений, словно следует с жаром доказывать правоту пустоте, поскольку истина кроется в доселе невысказанных словах, против чего бы они не были сказаны.(c) Trounin
Utterly engaging, written with skill and a complete lack of genuine humility as befitting one of the titans of his era. Such a fascinating and divisive historical figure, who's fundamental beliefs could offer lessons in today's modern world.Having read other biographical works, most recently Robert Service 'Trotsky', I have come to question some of the established facts contained within, however that in no way diminishes an utterly enthralling read. In short, pure class.
I'm a bit surprised that this book has so few ratings. In my opinion it is one of the greatest works of the 20th century. I guess I shouldn't be surprised though, given the hatchet job that has been done on Trotsky's reputation and the Left oppposition (no pun intended). A great revolutionary and a great man, and what a life! This autobiography would make a brilliant film, but I won't hold my breath waiting for it.
Surprisingly void of polemics, this autobiography tells the story of Trotsky's life of revolution without diving too deep into the philosophies behind it. I certainly learned that I know less about social and political systems than I would care to admit. Great read, eloquently and passionately written.
Awesome Book!!!!!!!!!! By far the best autobiography that I have ever read. Trotsky was highly intelligent and his thinking and writings transcend generations and will continue to do so. Many of his insights and predictions came true. Will the others? Time will tell..... If he and the left opposition had been successful, communism and the world that we know, would be a much different place.
I would have given it five stars, but problem was knowing who everyone was! Names are just casually thrown in. I know quite a bit about his period in history, but at times I was lost as to what was going on.Definitely a well written book, and an insight into the mind of one of our greatest thinkers.Now if only there had been better (or any!) footnotes....
Gran autobiografía de uno de los personajes históricos más complejos que han existido.
Incredible autobiography. Well-written, sometimes beautiful. And you learn a lot of history and politics as you go along.
Вельми цікава біографія революціонера Лейби Бронштейна Троцького має багато повчальний моментів. Особливо актуальна під час Майдану.
Fascinating book - fascinating life
the "funny" thing is the last chapter "The Planet Without a Visa" is almost exact the same as the current situation (as of July 2, 2013) with Edward Snowden in Russia
8.5/10, a LOT of detail, feel I missed the big picture, but still compelling and well written but I have questions. Important book to read, worth reading.
A superb and important book valid today as ever. Trotsky remains he commensurate political and social commentator
