https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6465707-the-walking-dead-compendium-1
I had no clue that the books to this were so much different than the show. You have some completely different characters and different endings for so many of the characters. If you haven't read the books because of being afraid to spoil the show..don't worry. It's different enough that you don't know anything about anything.Some of my favorite characters don't exist in the books and yet I still loved this book.There is a darker feel to the books. More sex, more dying, more fighting between the
I had no clue that the books to this were so much different than the show.
You have some completely different characters and different endings for so many of the characters.
If you haven't read the books because of being afraid to spoil the show..don't worry.
It's different enough that you don't know anything about anything.Some of my favorite characters don't exist in the books
I completely now understand the hatred between him and Michonne.
Then guess who is bad-ass in the books but was a whimpering idiot on the show?(view spoiler)[
(hide spoiler)]["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>
The world we knew is gone......now we live in the world of The Waking Dead!!! This is the first volume of “Compendium Edition” of The Walking Dead, collecting the comic book issue from #1 to #48 (including the Christmas Special story). This is equivalent to the first 8 regular Trade Paperbacks of the comic book series.My general rating is an average result of the sum of the ratings of each chapter in the collected edition.Creative Team:Writer: Robert KirkmanIllustrators: Tony Moore (Chapter One
As additional info, Tony Moore remained in the creative team for a while doing the covers of the first twenty-four issues and the covers of the first four regular TPBs.A good thing about The Walking Dead, if you want to enjoy it in comic books along with TV series is that both storylines are different, sure there will be connecting points here and there, and you will meet the same names of characters (in some cases) but they aren’t the same persons, and trust me, while this is my first compendium in the comic book’s storyline, I have been watching the TV series since its own beginning, and both stories are different, both truly great, but different, so don’t afraid of spoilers in any of both formats, since the events are developed quite different.
Ugh, I had avoided that series like a pro for when it was the IT thing, and there I was, watching some seriously ridiculous stuff and even more ridiculous and bad drama.
I had to binge read this in a few sittings middle of the night while my reading light had an constant epileptic seizure, and even when I knew I would be like a brain needing zombie when the morning would finally come, there was no stopping me.But the thing is, like Jersey Shore, The Walking Dead just is not that good as a whole.
If you watch The Walking Dead aka stalking Daryl Dixon, throw any notions you may have about the show paralleling the comics right out the fucking window. This version does not have this: Or that: I may have even missed this a tiny bit: It does have this: And that:  Although our friend the Governor on the show is rated G compared to the comic version.Now take all the sick, twisted, and fucked up things that happen on the show and multiply the fucked-upness by a gazillion. Throw in some added gor
If you watch The Walking Dead aka stalking Daryl Dixon, throw any notions you may have about the show paralleling the comics right out the fucking window.
I may have even missed this a tiny bit:
Although our friend the Governor on the show is rated G compared to the comic version.Now take all the sick, twisted, and fucked up things that happen on the show and multiply the fucked-upness by a gazillion.
Throw in some added gore and psychologically damaging events beyond human comprehension, and you get this book.
Fucking WIN.
I still miss seeing this a bit a lot.
The invention of Daryl (my favorite on-screen character) and his uber-violent, redneck brother Merle (played oh-so-convincingly by Michael Rooker), have been magnificent contributions to the ensemble cast.(view spoiler)[I definitely prefer Lori's on-screen death (grisly and upsetting as it was), to the comic's quick gut-shot death (even though that was quite shocking in its own way with little Judith in her arms).
I felt the same way when I read Stephen King’s The Stand – epic story by a master, but no character stole my heart.This won’t keep me from reading on in the series though, because I HAVE TO KNOW WHAT HAPPENS NEXT.
If you can't like that idea at least a little bit, then I can't like you.) But pretty quickly after my zombie obsession started, I realized that what interests me about these stories isn't the zombie killing aspect at all.
Instead, what really fascinates me about zombie apocalypse movies is how they portray the breakdown of society, and how people deal with this.
When the zombie apocalypse happens, all bets are off and society crumbles.
They still have to push the zombies back every day, and find a source of food, and keep other people from attacking their hiding place.
To paraphrase Sartre, Hell isn't a zombie apocalypse, Hell is other people.

Something new and fresh.It seems like everybody's reading The Walking Dead nowadays, and also raving about it.
And that's what The Walking Dead really is: a mediocre soap opera.
After the a while, you just stop caring.This review may sound harsh, but reading through the compendium has been a frustrating experience.
I really wanted to like this and there were some good bits here and there, but I expected something much better based on all the positive reviews.What is it about The Walking Dead that I just don't get?
I realised about half way through reading this compendium that the reason I slightly prefer the show is because the slower pacing works better for me and for my tastes.
However, I'm sure there are many who would feel the complete opposite as I have definitely seen complaints about the shows slow pace before and I think some people would be better suited to the pacing of the comics.I found a lot of the differences interesting in the general plot of the story.
The increased public awareness of post-traumatic stress disorder has had a positive effect on zombie comix.Before recent wars and criminal adventures and subsequent psycho-medical research and publicity, PTSD was all but ignored by zombie comix.Characters would be terrorized by zombies, displaced from their homes by zombies, see friends, loved ones, and coworkers die and then become zombies, but with the exception of some tears and wailing there were no real emotional consequences to zombie-related events that would have to be profoundly traumatic.OK, I could be wrong, never having read any zombie comix (comix is the wrong word, but graphic novel?
I've mentally revisited it quite a bit in the past few years (the stuff of that tale is lodged in my brainmeats for always because, whatever your opinion of Sai King is, the guy paints some uncomfortably visceral, lingering images) as my own longstanding zombie fascination has invariably led me to books like "World War Z" and (somewhat regrettably) "Pride and Prejudice and Zombies" and I suppose "Night of the Assholes" counts, too, since bizarro zombies are still zombies and dozens of undead-themed flicks and marathons of "The Walking Dead," which ALWAYS end in a few nights of zombie-related nightmares (just once, there were kitties to make the whole nocturnal shebang less horrifying).The thing about the apocalyptic scenario in "The Stand" (and other media that take the disease route to decimating humanity) is that there's no cure, no battle plan, no hope of survival beyond sheer, dumb luck.
So glad I did!The book is similar to the tv series yet there are lots of differences.
Some characters live a lot longer, others die much sooner.
Some of my favorites here I don't like in the tv version For example I love Andrea in the comics but nearly despise her in the series-although I do like the actress).
This gives up the first 48 volumes of the comic series You can read this compendium or just read them one at a time or there are in-between sized volumes to read.
This series is zombie fan MUST!
I found myself looking for something to hold me over between show/seasons so I looked into the books.
I'm not a big fan of many comics so I went for the novels on Woodbury and the Gov. Oh my, if you haven't read this get to them, fast.
I finished those 6 books quickly so time to try the graphic.
I am now officially a Robert Kirkman fan.This is what a zombie book should be, gross, bloody, gore plus and full of heart stoping moments.
The illustrations are wonderfully detailed I spent time just looking at pages drawn with intricate parts, amazing.
Read it
The evolution of Rick and his group is always interesting, a bit contrasting from the show, the differences are subtle and constant but they are there.
And they are not even good at it, not really, even Rick.
Both worlds are ugly, but in the comic books, Rick Grimes doesn't have to be.
One of the more startling changes were Dale and Andrea thing, she's way much hotter here, and what she has with Dale is not platonic, not by a long stretch.
All in all, the comic books are great, and the way they handled the Governor's storyline gives me hope that the Negan chapters will be great.
Knowing that the AMC TV series is based on these books/graphic novels made this an even more entertaining read. For as much as it is like the TV show, it's also NOTHING like the TV show in SOOOO many ways. While reading, you really won't know for sure what's coming next even if you've watched the show, to date. These books aren't cheap, but they are worth the price of entertainment and insight into the TV series.
2nd book read in 2015.Number 99 out of 430 on my all time book list.Follow the link below to see my video review:https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ql42Y...
In this case, we are given Rick Grimes as our protagonist, a police officer from a small town in Kentucky who gets shot on duty and wakes up a month later in the hospital to find the world has been given over to the dead.As he looks for his wife and son, Rick finds himself leading a band of survivors in their search for a place of safety away from both the dead who wish to devour them and the living who wish to kill them.What makes this a really fun - and terrifying - read is that Kirkman carefully paces the plot so that we never really get much time to rest.
However, despite my poor opinion of Adlard's drawings, I have to be fair and say that they do get a bit better in later volumes, as he gets more sure of his characters and the storyline.The storytelling helped come to grips with the post-Moore artwork.
Having awkward and not-well-written dialog gives The Walking Dead a depth and sense of reality not encountered in many other graphic novels, which, despite the later artwork, earns the Compendium 5-stars in my book.Many people are put off by the Compendium, complaining about its lack of portability.
As a huge fan of the show, I decided I wanted to read the Walking Dead comics and this was actually my first real encounter with comic books.
This compendium covers issues 1-48, which is also equivalent to the first 8 regular Trade Paperbacks of the comic book series.I knew that the show had deviated from the comics in a number of ways, but there were FAR more differences than I anticipated.
The storyline moves at a relentless pace, it is so easy to get caught up in reading without realizing how much time is passing by.
If I were doing this whole Walking Dead thing again, I would have AVOIDED the compendium all together and just stuck with the trades.
It's heavy, it's awkward to hold (particularly if you are the type to take it to bed to read before going to sleep), it's non-transportable (good LUCK taking this on an airplane!) - about the best thing was that I got this for $30.I honestly have mixed feelings about this.
WHEW!And then there's the fact they did THAT to MY FAVORITE CHARACTER DAMN YOU HOW DARE YOU DO THAT YOU BAD BAD BOYS!!!I really don't like Rick.
If he ain't a Marty Stu, I don't know what is!) (hide spoiler)] I really don't care for Lori.
The series was amazing and I couldn't put the story on hold while they filmed the next season so I picked up my first comic book since pubescence.
They are similar in a few keeps points and milestones but the events and characters diverge greatly from the separate story lines.
Thankfully the one thing the televised version got right was that the Zombies are only a minor part of the story.
Even if you don't like graphic novels, even if you think zombies only matter in the bible; just read it.
Scored this sucker today for cheap. Hells yeah. Finally I can start reading this thing.
This book is THICK.* Why I said "yes": Show is great (which was also recommended from above mentioned friend) and pure realization that I need to step out of my comfort zone when it comes to entertainment.
And yes, it is that quick of a read.
Not enough about zombies, as the book was more about the characters and their relationships/struggles to stay alive for an uncertain future.
I get bored easily when it comes to novels, so the frequent change in scenes were pleasant to my reading experience.The plot differed from the show, at least to my knowledge so far.
WrensReads Review:COMPENDIUMcom•pen•di•um (kəmˈpendēəm) noun.noun: compendium; plural noun: compendia; plural noun: compendiumsa collection of concise but detailed information about a particular subject, especially in a book or other publication.Compendium 01 of The Walking Dead includes: Collections of Issues: #01 - #48Collections of Volume: #01 - #08Overall Thoughts: It's a pretty great read. It could have been an amazing read if the women weren't portrayed as incapable idiots 75% of the time.WrensReads | Goodreads | Twitter | Instagram
This was fantastic. I wouldn't say it was better or worse than the show. I think the two complement each other nicely. There the same, but different. ;)
I had no idea graphic novels could make me think about so many fundamentally human ideas.The Walking Dead has been one of my favourite things lately, and it all comes down to one thing: character.A zombie apocalypse is a great premise and a fantastic vehicle for exploring human nature, and Kirkman really went to town in this series.
Because it's not about exploring the zombie theme.
It's about the people and their struggles.This is important.The Walking Dead is about love, hate, fear, betrayal, hope, and a gazillion other emotions all rolled into one.
Oh. My. God. I can't even. My feels are completely broken after reading this.. How can I possibly wait until MONDAY to get my hands on Compendium 2? EVERYTHING I LOVE DIES. It's like, I heard some of these things were going to happen, but WHEN they happened I couldn't help but cry. This was my first experience with graphic novels and it's not going to be my last!!
Okay, I'm going to say this right up front, and everyone can get as huffy as they'd like: it's all true.The Walking Dead is highly overrated.The writing is melodramatic as all get-out.
As such, I found the constant action and drama in The Walking Dead rather droll.The dialogue is awkward and often very poorly written.
The only time I found myself thinking, "I really liked that dialogue" was when Lori finally tries to come clean with Rick - it was the only part that seemed even mildly true to how a conversation works, and how people really interact.
Generally, I liked elements of The Walking Dead, but the particulars are just sloppy and distracting.
I was hooked from the pilot (which is hard to believe was three years ago), and have been dutifully following the heart-stopping and gut-wrenching escapades of Rick and his family and the band of survivors that fans have grown to love (and, in some cases, hate).It took me a while to read the comics because I didn't want to breeze through them to find out what would happen next on the show, which has, for the most part, remained faithful, if not to the exact story then the basic spirit of Robert Kirkman's graphic novel.
I think Darabont has done a terrific job bringing those characters to life and keeping the basic structure, theme, and tone that Kirkman and the team of great artists (Tony Moore and Charlie Adlard) set within the first five issues.

