https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/445368.Harmony
Walter Piston's Harmony is, for countless reasons, a very widely acclaimed and widely used book within both personal and traditional education in music.
In the course of reading this work, one with the capability of comprehension of the subjects referenced would surely find that much research and impressive understanding of music was required for this book to be written.
This was a considerably large portion of the book for the reason that every chapter was followed by a series of exercises to be performed by the reader containing the previously taught information.
These exercises, if performed correctly and recurrently will undoubtedly advance the musical knowledge of any given reader.
This was our textbook when I took music theory oh so many years ago. I changed direction (I went into linguistics), but that class, taken as a green freshman, showed me what being at the university was suposed to be like. All of my subsequent courses were measured against that one and were, more often than not, found wanting. I sometimes thumb through this book and remember the excitement of those days.
To say that I am starting to read this is a bit of a stretch, because it is a textbook rather than something that one reads and sets down. But, I wanted to get some music theory into my reading list, so here it is.I was given this 1944 printing of this book about 40 years ago by a friend who saw my interest in learning music. Now I am starting to make a more serious study of music theory. Here goes.
not suitable for iranian student but i must keep on reading it.cause we are still encountering lack of basic tutorial books of music theory and harmony and undoubtly walter piston harmony is nnnnnnot a "basic" choice.
If you're looking for a good self-read book on the theory of harmony and want to take your understanding of music to level two, this is a good book. Not overly technical or too deep. Does require one to have at some basic understanding of scales and theory.
This is the hardest book I ever read.
I would only recommend this book to someone who has already studied harmony and needs a review. Straight forward and lacks musical excerpts which are essential for understanding new concepts.
An indispensable companion to a career in music. Piston is capable of uncovering the purport of any musical nomencleture no matter the obscurity. I own the 3rd edition, but it was stolen.
A famous book on Classical Harmony. I found it useful, however, my interests lean more towards jazz influenced harmonies.
Best reference for Harmony
