https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/604154.But_Gentlemen_Marry_Brunettes
An unnecessary sequel that doesn't live up to the charm and humor of  Gentlemen Prefer Blondes . The book is essentially just a sequence of Dorothy's bon mots related by the clueless Lorelei.
I preferred Anita's first book, detailing the wild life and saucy times of Lorelei Lee, to this meh sequel written by Lorelei about her less fortunate friend Dorothy.
Perhaps I disliked this book because I wish I was more fancy-free and mercenary (although not a straight-up gold digger), like Lorelei.
Instead, I was horrified to discover that I share several of Dorothy's most maligned traits.
Lorelei demands presents; Dorothy GIVES gifts to men.
One interesting thing I learned from this book came from a passing mention on p.
Poor Texas died in Vancouver, BC of amoebic dysentery in 1933, exactly one month before Prohibition was repealed...
The sequel to Gentlemen Prefer Blondes, But Gentlemen Marry Brunettes focuses on Lorelei’s best friend, Dorothy. Dorothy was a wonderful counterpart to Lorelei in the first book, but she loses something when thrust into the spotlight. The same all-knowing, biting satire pervades this book, but Lorelei’s voice doesn’t click quite as well when telling someone else’s story. Plus, I found the darker events alluded to here harder to overlook than in the first book. It’s still a fun read, but it doesn’t have the same magic as Gentlemen Prefer Blondes. Recommended.
I have a theory that Anita Loos was a nom de plume for Dorothy Parker, or someone otherwise affiliated with the Algonquin Club of New York. Many of these anecdotes seem to be exaggerated private jokes in and amongst the female literati about less-intellectually driven individuals. If read in this context, the book is sharp.
Personally, I did not like this book. I found it to irreverent about marriage, sex, and life in general. It was like Wodehouse, without the plot and the humor.
Anita Loos once again captured the charm of Lorelei Lee, but as this story centers around her friend Dorothy, I found the character hard to connect with. The book fell a little short for me.
Aussi délicieux et efficace que le premier !
The first two chapters were hilarious! It went downhill...
Good fun once I managed to get over my irritation at the arch bad spelling. Very much of its time, morals and hypocrisy wise.
The first book was much better. The story of the brunette even being told by the blond is just another chick-lit, nothing special.
And I preferred to not finish this book. Did not care to invest my time on the ditzy Lorelei.
Not as good as "Blondes." I, mean, really, really not as good.
Truly amusing and just as silly as the first book, this is the story of Dorothy "Dot" Shaw, as related by her friend Lorelei with all the naive judgements and misspellings you'd expect.
Dot's story is interesting and involves carnivals, Detention homes, the Follies, domestic abuse, Paris divorces and the mob.
And everywhere there are men trying to take advantage of women, and the women who let them - for a price.
Whether that price is a Paris vacation, or a wedding ring, someone is going to pay.
Loos commits one of the unpardonables here and makes light of child molesters. Nope, nope and nope.
2.5 stars Not as entertaining as Blondes.
"Because it seems that the Ohio Society is very exclusive, because you have to be born in Ohio. But he got Henry an invitation to join the Pennsylvania Society, which is not so exclusive, because all you have to be born in is Pennsylvania."
