https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/9557.Sputnik_Sweetheart
A simple guy who likes to 1.cook 2.listen to music/read books 3.
think about the meaning of life meets an ordinary girl who turns out to be totally extraordinary, which gets her into trouble soon after the guy falls for her.
Doesn't it all sound familiar to you, experienced Murakami-readers?So, if Sputnik Sweetheart was the first Murakami book I'd ever read I'd most definitely be head over heels for it right now.
But after Hardboiled Wonderland and the End of the World, Norwegian Wood,Kafka on the Shore, The Wind-up Bird Chronicle, etc., Sputnik Sweetheart just falls naturally into the plain old "more-of-the-same" category and never moves me like I expected.
"Reality was one step out of line, a cardigan with the buttons done up wrong." I have come to realise that reading a Murakami book is not quite an act of reading itself but an act of dreaming with your eyes open. What you see is a series of surreal images barely held together by threads of reason. What matters however, is the feeling these images leave you with; an aftertaste that lingers and intensifies even as the world within these pages turns stranger and more disconcerting; until what you
I have come to realise that reading a Murakami book is not quite an act of reading itself but an act of dreaming with your eyes open.
Like sputniks orbiting each other but never getting closer.I believe what Murakami does is strip life of all flamboyance and expose how mundane it really is.
Is love simply a dream we see to avoid the reality of our lonely existence; each life in a separate orbit?Indeed, reality bites.
We have a woman who has an experience where she sees herself “on the other side.” There is also a disappearing woman in a situation where it is impossible for her to disappear; a tiny Greek island -- no well to fall into; a tiny town only accessible by ferry; a drowned body would wash up.
He loves her, but she is in love with an older woman.
A young man loves a young woman but she is out of reach for some reason.
There’s a lesbian sub-story in both books.
The man also finds himself attracted to the older woman in each story.
Sometimes I think that's the only right thing to do.” ― Haruki Murakami, Sputnik SweetheartAs I've stated previously, my friend, Srdjan, is obsessed with Murakami.
Sputnik Sweetheart is a novel of what could have been, what might have been, where worlds overlap, and love can never quite be divorced from lust.
Sputnik Sweetheart is strangely haunting but oh so hard to describe; is it a tale of unreciprocated love, unrealized ambition, and desire, of always wanting more?
Wait, Sputnik Sweetheart is a detective novel.
do any of us really know what a Murakami novel is about?
This is my first time reading a Murakami novel. It was very good, and very weird. Either large sections are entirely metaphorical, or we've got some heavy unreliable narrator action going on. Honestly, either way or any combination of the 2 is totally fine with me; this book was beautifully written.It was eerily similar to Christopher Priest's The Affirmation in themes and quite a few plot points. I can't help but think that Murakami is a fan of his.
In Sputnik Sweetheart, the author's Western obsessions are very visible.
The book tells the story of a love triangle: an aspiring avant-garde writer, Sumire, falls in love with a mysterious and very rich woman, Miu, who has a wine import business and studied classical piano in France.
When Sumire reflects on his writing, his conception of the world, the confusion of his feelings, writes this revealing phrase "Perception is but the sum of our misunderstandings." We are, therefore, in the field of uncertainty.
Because Sputnik Sweetheart is a poetic journey through the strange orbits of "solitary pieces of metal," each inhabited by a traveler who barely understands his passion.
The book is lean and packed with Murakami-style mystery—that is, both mystery in the detective sense and mystery in something closer to a Pauline sense, a revelation that is baffling to those who don't get it and uncanny to those who do.Sputnik Sweetheart revolves around three characters: 1) the largely passive narrator, K, a thirty-year-old elementary school teacher and passionate reader who is madly in love with 2) Sumire, a former classmate of K's who dropped out of school to become a writer and who has fallen madly in love with 3) Miu (whom Sumire calls her "Sputnik Sweetheart"), a married woman who imports wine, has a hidden past, and holds no ability to care sexually for her husband, Sumire, or really any other creature.
All I have to do is quietly draw it towards me.I might be doing a disservice to Haruki Murakami with my attitude, but the desperate romantic in me, romantic in a fluffy and nausea causing way, cursed with unhealthily and unreasonably optimistic nature, just cannot help but seeing her words as a confession of the love he longs for so much and his thoughts as a belief in and acceptance of that love.
I think it challanges us to try understanding better the nature of our own state of mind, our life, our ways, our own view of the world.I wanted to write a real review, but so far I can’t.
There's a common element in all his works; it's a bridge of fantasy and reality that has just the right delicate balance.
You can connect with it on a level that you can’t in pure fantasy, and there’s enough of a disconnect from solid reality to leave you in wonder.
Of all the other writers that have been categorized as magical realism that I’ve read, Murakami is the one who masters this style the finest.Sputnik Sweetheart is the type of book that I pick up from my nightstand a Saturday morning right after I wake up, and read it until the last page, sometime early in the afternoon.
ده اللي انكتب مفروط يا عنقود العنبكصناعة النبيذ تدور الأحداث في بطء و أناة خلال الصفحات المائة الأولى ثم تبدأ في الركض السريع متلاحق الأنفاس حتى النهاية.العبقري الغريب موراكامي لا يكف عن ابهارنا ببساطته الأسطورية و لغته الساحرة و أفكاره الغريبة الجريئة و إباحيته الوقورة :)كنت لا أزال هنا أنا الأخرى.
ربما نصفي ذهب إلى الجانب الأخر آخذا معه شعري الأسود و رغبتي الجنسية و عادتي الشهرية و ربما حتى الرغبة في العيش.
أما الجزء الذي ترك فهو ما ترينه هنا.
كنت حية في الماضي و أنا حية الأن أجلس هنا أتحدث معك.
لكن ما ترينه هنا ليس أنا الحقيقية.
This is my 2nd novel by Haruki Murakami and just like Kafka in the Shore, this still amazed me.
I even enjoyed this more than Kafka.For me this is the best unrequited tragic love story I've read so far.
I am not really fond of love stories (this just happens to be part of 1001 Books You Must Read Before You Die), but I choose to see this novel as a story of a tangled triangle of uniquely unrequited loves.The narrator, a 25-year old teacher, K is in love with a 22-year old lesbian writer, Sumire.
Because of her past, Miu could not reciprocate Sumire's love.
I sat down to read ‘Sputnik Sweetheart’ the night David Bowie died.
Miu recognises something she likes in Sumira and asks her to come work with her.I had to admit to myself that Murakami could be likened to a broken record, constantly skipping and replaying the same themes, but when he produces something so beautiful, you can forgive repetition.
Miu argues that although they lyrics of Sumira’s song are ugly, the song is still beautiful and she should look past her feelings for the lyrics, just like I look past the broken record-ness of Murakami.
Who could it be at this time of night?
إذا أردتَ أن تجرب إحساس الهلوسة التي تفصلك عن الواقع، وتسافر بك عبر الزمان والمكان إلى عالم خيالي، يخلو من الهم والحزن، ويمتلئ بالبهجة والسحر، أمامك وسيلتان: إما أن تتعاطي المخدرات، وإما أن تقرأ لموراكامي.تمت
It contains long passages of bland thoughts and descriptions, and I was starting to think that I had grown away from Haruki Murakami and his story-telling which I used to absolutely love (I have read quite a lot of his novels through the years).
However, halfway through the novel I encountered what was to become one of my favourite literary scenes (it contains a ferris wheel), and from then onwards the book picked up and caught my attention.
"Sputnik Sweethearts" contains - in my humble opinion - bland story-telling that is hard to get through combined with hugely interesting passages and thoughts on life mixed with some magical realism (as one can only expect from Murakami).
Living in dreams for the rest of time.” ― Haruki Murakami, Sputnik SweetheartA disappearing woman.
I'm going to sleep and dream on this one tonight and write the review tomorrow.
I fully intend to write a real review, I'm just uncertain how I feel.
Half of me wants to write a review, but the other half just wants to look longingly out the window, go to the beach, or sit in a restaurant and eat some nice Greek food.
That should pass after a good night's sleep and I should be able to decide where Sputnik Sweetheart belongs in my catalog of Murakami.
I'm not entirely sure that my favorite remembered things about Sputnik Sweetheart were actually in this particular book.The wish to have someone you could call up at three in the morning and talk about anything you wanted.
That fucking song is in my head now.)I loved the description that the girl looked like she'd grow a beard if she could.
I think?), Murakami is wonderful about the heart aches that matter because those are the beats you can hear pounding in your ears, no matter what else (shit talk) is drowning out the rest.I wish I could read braille.
A friend of mine thought that I was reading a porn book and I explained to her that it was different inside and it doesn't have sex, but now I want to throw those words, there are scenes that Sumire's imagination really spurts of sexual desire.
A review that I've read said that she don't like Western narrative, well, same with Filipino writers we uses a lot of to deep words, sentences and etc., that readers especially the youth doesn't have interest in reading them.A love triangle between the 3 main characters of the story, the person who lost her love, a person who loves a woman, and a person who loves her who never loves him.
I suppose you could say this book is sort of Murakami "lite" - less intense in terms of non-linear narrative and the characters are a bit more concrete and the plot easier to discern. Nonetheless, it is a wonderfully beautiful book and one of Murakami's best. A must read if you are going to give Murakami a spin.
“In dreams you don't need to make any distinctions between things.
Boundaries don't exist.
So in dreams there are hardly ever collisions.
Even if there are, they don't hurt.
Reality is different.
Reality bites.
And no clues left whatsoever.Murakami's absurdist themes allow you to read a book with the eerie feeling of being a part of a dream sequence.
Sputnik Sweetheart is a relatively lighter read.
Its is one of his relatively shorter novels.
This book also gave me serious Twin Peaks vibes due to some of the strange incidents happening in the plotline.
Overall, it is an enjoyable read.
3.5Buen libro de Murakami. Creo que es una historia que desafía el absurdo de una pregunta: ¿se puede perder lo que nunca se ha tenido? Una ilusión, un anhelo a veces puede ser todo lo que se tiene. Una mirada y la esperanza de algo más es a lo que uno se aferra. Y cuando eso desaparece, la esperanza se esfuma junto con la llama que mantenía caliente al corazón. Y ya no queda nada más que frío, vacío y soledad.
Sputnik Sweetheart by Haruki MurakamiMy rating: 4 of 5 starsBlurb: Haruki Murakami, the internationally bestselling author of Norwegian Wood and The Wind-Up Bird Chronicle, plunges us into an urbane Japan of jazz bars, coffee shops, Jack Kerouac, and The Beatles to tell this story of a tangled triangle of uniquely unrequited loves.K falls in love with Sumire but a devotion to an untidy writerly life precludes her from any personal commitments - until she meets Miu, an older sophisticated busi
Sputnik Sweetheart by Haruki MurakamiMy rating: 4 of 5 starsBlurb: Haruki Murakami, the internationally bestselling author of Norwegian Wood and The Wind-Up Bird Chronicle, plunges us into an urbane Japan of jazz bars, coffee shops, Jack Kerouac, and The Beatles to tell this story of a tangled triangle of uniquely unrequited loves.K falls in love with Sumire but a devotion to an untidy writerly life precludes her from any personal commitments - until she meets Miu, an older sophisticated businesswoman.
Thoughts: Initially this seemed like the easiest of all Murakami's work to read, a simple love/friendship develops between two people and a third person becomes involved.
Dosta sam razmišljao za vreme čitanja ove knjižice zbog čega tačno volim Murakamija toliko.
Ali mislim da je velikim delom zbog činjenice da je apsolutno sve podredjeno emociji.
Gde evo recimo Mičel, koji me je zlaboga nedavno nervirao, svoj tzv magijski realizam temelji u misteriji ili u suvoj magiji koju čudno oslovljava sa „možda magija“, Murakami svoju magičnost – a gotovo uvek je ima, barem u romanu tipa A za njegov opus (B je trad psihologija koja je daleko više eeh) – zasniva u osećaju, osećanju.
1Q84 je već druga priča, čija je dužina ujedno i najveća prednost i najveća mana.Tako da, da – Murakamijev jedan jedini roman (tip B, trad psihološki, nije toliko čest) koji piše iznova i iznova je apsolutno vredan čitanja, iznova i iznova.
عبقري..
عبقري..
عبقرياقرأ هذا النص معي أكثر من مرة."غادرت الفراش.
أزحت الستارة الشاحبة جانبًا وفتحت النافذة.
أخرجت رأسي عبرها ورفعت بصري إلى السماء.
بالتأكيد كان هناك قمر ترابي اللون معلق في السماء.
جيد.
كلانا ينظر إلى القمر نفسه في العالم عينه.
كلانا مرتبط بالواقع بالخيط نفسه.
كل ما عليَّ فعله سحبه بهدوء صوبي.فتحت أصابع يدي وحدقت في راحتَيَّ بحثًا عن آثار دم.
لم أجد شيئاً.
لا رائحة دم.
لابد أن الدم، وبطريقته الصامتة الخاصة، تسرب داخلهما".هذا الرجل عبقري، تائه بين العوالم..
تارة يجعل من الشخص أثنين، أحدهم في هذا العالم والأخر في العالم الثاني بعكس صفاته.قلتها سابقاً وأقولها الأن..
شكل من أشكال الهلوسةلم أعد أعرف من رحل للعالم الاخر ومن بقي ومن امام المرآة ومن ذهب خلفهاو من يهلوس و من يفكر بعقلانيةضاعت الطاسة يا جماعة

Reading the book this time, in Japanese, I found myself falling in love with the main character, Sumire, and Myu all over again.
Perhaps this is the reason that this is one of the few books I can read in Japanese.
A book doesn't need to be complicated or long, or have many characters, to be a masterpiece.
It can tell a simple story about love, the impossibility, and finally the possibility of its existence.
There is a Sumire out there for us to find...one for all of us...so what am I waiting for?
Es curioso lo que me pasa con este libro: sencillamente no puedo otorgarle ninguna estrella. Ni una. Es imposible. Es como si la historia estuviera por encima de 'las estrellas'. O girando en otra galaxia. (Ay, madre, cada vez estoy más loca...jajaja) Pero es así! Supongo que lo único que puedo decir es que sí, que me ha gustado.
”Sputnik, Meu Amor” tem três personagens principais – quase únicas neste romance:1 - Sumire é uma mulher com vinte e dois anos que ”(…) lutava literalmente com unhas e dentes para se tornar escritora.
21);3 - Miu, a mulher por quem Sumire ”(…) se apaixonou, além de ser casada, tinha mais dezassete anos do que ela.
9 – 10);Após a morte do pai, Miu, fica a gerir a empresa familiar que se dedica a importar vários produtos com destaque a o vinho, acabando por contratar Sumire como secretária particular.
”Aquela mulher (Miu) amava Sumire, mas não sentia por ela desejo sexual.
Sumire gostava de mim, mas não me amava nem tão-pouco sentia desejo sexual por mim.
I know I may sound like a broken record but Murakami is the man!
I don't know why but he is the only writer that can be repetitive as hell and still create a riveting atmosphere in each of his stories not letting you care about the cliches.
It's true that he usually likes to leave many things to the readers' imagination but this one is too ambiguous even for his standards.
I always enjoy the process of trying to figure out what the hell happened and eventually choosing to believe what "clicks" to me.As usual, the atmosphere does the trick here.
بعد الانتهاء من قراءة هذهِ الرواية بودي لو أحذف كل الروايات من قائمة مفضلتي و الابقاء عليها ، و إلى جانبها كافكا على الشاطيء يا الهي !
لم اتوقف عن ترديد هذهِ الكلمة بعد كل عدة مقاطع منها عظيمة ، هذهِ رواية عظيمة و تحرك كل جزء فيك لم اتمنى الانتهاء منها الا لاعادتها مجدداً موركامي يا لكمية الدهشة التي تحقنني بها كلما قرأت لك !أود لو كتبت الكثير عنها ، عن سوماير و شخصيتها الرائعة عن دروس الكتابة التي قدمها هاروكي عن ميو ، يا الهي وحده مشهد الحادث الذي اصابها و كيف ابيض شعرها وحده هذا الحدث في الرواية كم يحتاج لتتخيله كيف ان تبتكره و تتحدث عنه و تقنع الاخرين به بهذهِ السلاسة !!!
Murakamis Schreibstil ist einfach grandios! Sowohl die Charaktere, als auch die Konversationen sind phänomenal ausgearbeitet. Allerdings war das Ende irgendwie etwas seltsam. Entweder habe ich es nicht verstanden oder Murakami hat es absichtlich so seltsam und offen geschrieben. Nicht mein liebster Murakami!
هى ابهرتنى فعلا وتكاد تفوق كافكا على الشاطئ(تكاد) يمكن تقليديتها مقارنة بكافكا هى اللى اعجبتنى كثير) البطله مبهره بالنسبه لى (مبهره فعلا) وفى مقاطع حسيت ان الكاتب بيتكلم عنى انا .عامة رواية رائعه . اللغه (رغم الترجمه ) ظاهرة القوة والخفة والتمكن . الحميميه فى الكتاب تجذبك وتركيزة الضوء على العلاقات الانسانيه المختلفه شدنى جدا. تحس ان الكاتب بيتكلم عن اشخاص تعرفهم وبتقابلهم فى حياتك.روايه انصح بها بشده وخاصة لمن يريد القراءه فى الادب الآسيوى واليابانى بصفه خاصه
Haruki Murakami en sevdiğim yazarlardan. Dilini kullanışı, kurgusunda hiç solmayan mistik hava, akışkanlığı beni her kitabını okumaya zorluyor adeta. "Sputnik Sevgilim" yazarın binle ifade edilen eserlerine oranla "Koşmasaydım Yazamazdım" gibi kısa bir eser. Roman ve biyografik bir kitap olarak birbirlerinden ayrılıyorlar. Bence, eğer Murakami okumaya yeni başlayacaksanız ya da okunacak kısa bir Murakami metni arıyorsanız güzel bir tercih olabilir.
Ο Μουρακάμι είναι ένας απο τους αγαπημένους μου συγγραφείς, έχω διαβάσει ένα μεγάλο κομμάτι απο την βιβλιογραφία του και σκοπευώ να την ολοκληρώσω, όποτε η γραφή του μου είναι πολύ οικειά και πρόσεξα κάποια στοιχεία του που ενώ υπάρχουν σχεδόν σε όλα τα βιβλία του έλειπαν απο το "Σπούτνικ Αγαπημένη".Ενώ ο σουρεαλισμός και ο μαγικός ρεαλισμός παίζουν μεγάλο ρόλο στην μορφολογιά των ιστοριών του Μουρακάμι το Σπούτνικ ανήκει σε εκείνη την μερίδα των μυθιστοριμάτων του (Νορβηγικό Δάσος, Ο άχρωμος Τσουκουρου Ταζακι κτλ) που διαδραματίζεται στην πραγματικότητα χωρίς διαλείματα "μαγείας" ή περίεργων φαινομένων.
Τουλάχιστον τα 2/3 της ιστορίας ακολουθεί το μοτίβο που μόλις περιέγραψα γιατί στο τέλος πάει να πάρει μια κλίση προς τον μαγικό ρεαλισμό, αλλά χωρίς να χαλάει την αίσθηση πραγματικότητας που σου αφήνει το βιβλίο.Επίσης συμβαίνουν δυο πολύ όμορφα πράγματα.

ما هذا الهراء بحق زيوس !...
M-au amuzat răspunsurile profesorului, dornic să se întoarcă la somnul întrerupt cât mai repede.Nu am putut să nu simt un sentiment de frustrare faţă de aceste personaje, alternând cu simpatie şi chiar milă - Sumire amintindu-şi de el numai atunci când are nevoie de sprijin, tratându-l ca pe un obiect ce va fi mereu acolo, gata să fie folosit dacă ea doar întinde mâna; şi profesorul incapabil să se sustragă din această relaţie bolnăvicioasă, vărsându-şi frustrarea sexuală în multiple relaţii cu femei indisponibile, femei căsătorite, mame ale studenţilor lui ş.a.m.d.De cealaltă parte, o altă latură a triunghiului amoros care de fapt nu e un triunghi, Sumire şi Miu sunt două suflete fragile, distruse care se găsesc una pe alta, însă nu se pot vindeca reciproc.
This book is nothing short of a masterpiece and I am just blown away after finishing this book that took me on one deep journey.The genre of this book is so hard to define and compare to anything else I have read as this is just superior to all that has come before it.
If you enjoyed that book you should hopefully love this.Sputnik Sweetheart is a powerful book and is my first experience of this author and really I can't wait to read his next book.
I have not read something so perfectly written and it translates so well it could have been written by an author from any part of the world.
و الغلاف من أسوأ ما رأيت لا أعلم فيما كان يفكر مصمم الغلافحينما اختار هذه الصورة!******************اقتباساتلم يكن هناك شيء صلب نعتمد عليه، كنّا إلى حد ما أصفاراً غير محددة، مجرّد مخلوقات صغيرة يرثى لها أن تندفع من نسيانٍ إلى آخر""الرواية ليست شيئاً من هذا العالم.
I realised not long ago that I always refer to Haruki Murakami as my favourite author when I have actually only read a few of his books.
I decided to start reading more of his work to expand my love of him further and hopefully encounter something close to Norwegian Wood on the awesome-ness scale.
I think the phenomenal thing about Murakami is how he manages to write about mundane, every day things and make them feel like something more.
Still such a great book though and also a wonderful place to start if you haven't read some Murakami before.
" الفانتازيا ، الموسيقى ، الكتب ، العلاقات الحميمة " من المستحيل أن تقرأ رواية لموراكامى بدون أن تجد هذه العناصر مُجتَمعة معاً ، حتى و إن اختلفت القصص و الشخصيات و الحوارات .. تجد طابع الرواية العام مُوَحَد ، بأسلوب جذّاب ! قرائتى السادسة لموراكامى .. ومن كُتّابى المّفَضلين و ما زلت أنبهر به كل مرة ♥
That's my first reading for Haruki Murakami, and won't be the last :)I wished I could read it in Japanese, but my Japanese is still not that good!Haruki Murakami's book seems different from other books I've read! It's a mixture of magical realism, love, books and music!    “The answer is dreams. Dreaming on and on. Entering the world of dreams and never coming out. Living in dreams for the rest of time.”  What a tragic love story!  Could it be considered a "love triangle"? Maybe!So in this book,
Maybe!So in this book,there are 3 main characters:➺ The narrator, K: He works as a teacher, he loves reading, and has "Sumire" as his only friend, he falls in love with her but doesn't confess his feelings to her.➺ Sumire: Her dream is to become a novelist, she loves reading novels and tries her best to write about her life in better way, but she stops writing when she starts working with "Miu", she has feelings for "Miu" from the first time she met her at Sumire's cousin wedding.➺ Miu: She is Korean who lived in Japan for a long time, and is 17 years older than "Sumire".
I have an important announcement: Henceforth, when I refer to "my favorite writer" I will be talking about Haruki Murakami.
Sumire's dream is to be a novelist, and she drops out of school to read more, write more, take long walks, and call K from a phone booth at 3 a.m. with questions like: "What is the difference between a sign and a symbol?" Then, suddenly, the otherwise nonsexual Sumire falls in love with an older married woman named Miu, whom she meets at a wedding.
For years I have been struggling with the perfect metaphor for when things are just not quite right, a little out of sorts.
Ancak Nobel Edebiyat Ödülü'nü bir kenara bırakacak olursak asıl sürpriz 'Sputnik Sevgilim'.
Bunun sıklığı beni rahatsız ediyor sanırım, bunun farkına vardım.Okuma keyfi olarak çok üstlerde gezinen bir H.Murakami romanı bu, ancak aynı şekilde kontürsüzlüğüyle okuyucuyu biraz fazla rahatsız eden bir kitap.
Bir yandan bakıldığında da Murakami'ye başlamak için en doğru durağın 'Sputnik Sevgilim' olduğunu düşünüyorum.
Tüm bunlar Murakami'nin bu denli, herkes tarafından deli gibi okunması için itki olan şeyler olabilir, anlıyorum ancak yine de romanların bünyelerde yarattığı etkileri gözlemleyemediğim için içimi bir merak da burkmuyor değil.Sıradan okuyucu bu kitaplarda ne buluyor?
Sumire, a young college drop-out with dreams of being a Japanese Kerouac meets Miu, a woman twice her age who she slowly begins to fall in love with.
The title 'Sputnik Sweetheart' is well-chosen, as the haunting story of Laika (the poor dog who was sacrificed for scientific progression) returns again and again to hammer home how humans often sacrifice their closest life companions in order to understand more about the mystery of themselves.After reading four Murakami books, I see that his writing stands out from the rest of his peers for its controlled simplicity.
