https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/10913161-the-middle-of-things
A wealthy man named Ashton is found murdered in an alley, apparently robbed for his jewelry and pocketbook.
The police believe they have the killer, a young man who the next morning tries to pawn one of the stolen rings.
Viner, however, the man who discovered the body and who is friends with the accused, believes otherwise.
S. Fletcher murder mystery, The Middle of Things keeps the reader guessing until the very end.
The story features several Fletcher staples, such as a curious and bored average citizen, a case of mistaken identities, and a believable ending.
Good mystery. There were several twists and turns and Fletcher is good at keeping you guessing at whose done it!
Viner stumbles upon the body of a murdered man whilst just following through his ordinary day routines. Little does he know that this find would make him a key figure in solving a big mystery. Well its soon discovered that the murdered man's name was Ashton and some important documents were stolen from him, but the true purpose for killing him and his real identity and that of his charge, make for a rather excitingly interesting murder-mystery...
Thoroughly enjoyed this book published 1922 when things were a bit different in the world of crime to say the least. These kindle books are free and certainly provide the reader with some entertainment. I like to hear a good "Capital!" exclaimed by an old attorney. I also like to imagine that perhaps my grandmother may have read the Fetcher books, a quietly comforting thought.
Pleasant old fashioned mystery, good time-passer, doesn't challenge the brain at all, though
I have 2 more of Fletcher's books left and I am really going to miss reading this author. The twists and turns always keep me reading well past my bedtime!!
Classic 1920s murder mystery
A fun Fletcher with a slightly tighter mystery than some of his others. (Scotland)
Coincidence is king in The Middle of Things, in fact you might say it's in the middle of all that happens. There was only one instance I thought a tad outre, but got over it. Fletcher had the ability to keep you interested and therefore forgiving, possibly oblivious of all but the most obvious. A fine, and prolific writer.
Not riveting, but fine. After much detail throughout the story it concludes abruptly w/ a surprise ending. Available on Librivox.
I really enjoyed this book. The twists and turns kept me guessing. I had it sorta almost kinda figured out near the end, but not quite. A good read!
A man living with his mystery-obsessed aunt tells her he doesn't believe the mystery crime novels he reads to her are anything like real life.
The man is fleeing from an alleyway and looks very frightened, as well as familiar to Mr. Viner.
Viner turns down the alleyway and discovers an elderly gentleman, who appears to be injured or dead, lying on the pavement.
Viner investigates and sees that the elderly man is in fact dead from a knife wound to the back.
Fletcher will take you through a mysterious crime with all the typical tropes of detective fiction - but it's still a very enjoyable light read.

The plot is well reviewed here by others so I will just say that I thoroughly enjoyed this story of JS Fletcher's as I have enjoyed pretty well all of his that I have read so far.
The man had a very fertile imagination and played fair with the reader supplying plenty of clues which enabled me, at least, to work most, but not all of it, out.
If, like me, you enjoy these old fashioned tales and the fairly staid writing style of the period then this one is highly recommended.
Well knit and pure VictorianA well plotted narrative that keeps you absorbed and neatly by the end neatly ravels together the various strands. This is no masterpiece but it is an elegant Victorian mystery.
All action all the time. Need a lead? One shows up! Need a character witness? They magically appear! Post a request in the newspaper, people come out of the woodwork. A story with characters of no personality, except for the aunt, she's plucky, I want to read more about her.
A good well written mystery that will absorb any fan of the murder mysteryThis in every aspect is a five star book. The characters and the story are well written and the guessing continue to the end. I believe true fans of murder mysteries will love this book.
This book read like a Nancy Drew novel, except that if possible, the Nancy Drew books were better written. The entire thing was exposition. The ending was predictable and corny beyond belief. It did serve as mildly entertaining brain candy for a few days.
An enjoyable, overly complicated classic British whodunit. this is the second J.S. fletcher novel I have listened to, and both follow the same formula, with similar characters.
Started out slow, didn't feel like a whodunit. Took some time to really get interested in the story, but once it got rolling, it held my interest.
Simple and enjoyable Olde English Mystery
Great mystery story!Didn't realize this was from 1922. Great, confusing, pleasantly closing mystery! I really enjoyed it very much, and might read it again!
Fletcher writes cozy little mysteries. No blood. No gore. No psychopathic serial killers. Just a good story told well. Perfect for a rainy day.
A fairly good who done it.
Oh, look. I have stumbled upon another very prolific, golden age mystery writer, with many a book in the public domain. I wonder how that's going to play out. (I very much enjoyed this.)
