https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/80989.Pictures_from_an_Institution
A smug self-involved novel written for the wine-quaffing elite so they might titter around their canapés at the bons mot expressed about a footnote in the revised Oxford edition of The Iliad.
The narrator is a pompous New York scenester and the novel reminiscent of all those moments when you’re watching a Woody Allen film and it’s going all right, then suddenly you have this overwhelming urge to kill all the privileged neurotic whining nuisances gobbling up all the caviar before you.
I was raised in Compton, Edinburgh where we don’t tolerate books of such a dated self-regarding nature, boyee.
The narrator just keeps telling us about him like a standup comedian doing a monologue.
Ex: On seeing the president, we're told, she felt "as if she'd just taken a drink." He's such valuable material for her next book that she "walked around and around him rubbing up and down against his legs, looking into the dish of fresh mackerel he wore instead of a face." The monologue continues.
She lived before Original Sin, and could only make mistakes." (Now the narrator sounds like the comic Phyllis Diller doing a monologue).
We also get to know the president of Benton College and his South-African born wife, who Gertrude refers to as “the Black Man’s Burden;” Gottfried Rosenbaum, a composer in residence, and his wife Irene; Sidney Bacon, Gertrude’s attentive, doormattish husband; and some other minor characters.Gertrude is viciously witty.
After her dinners guests had often wanted to pay Gertrude the simple tribute of a sampler, one bearing in chain-stitch or lock-step the words Kinder, Kirche, Küche.After the meal, the guests are relieved to consume a bakery cake: “It was good to eat something that had felt a cook’s transfiguring hands.”Gertrude is the star of the novel, but Jarrell’s comedic talents are sprinkled over the others too.
halfway through, this book abandons itself and spends the rest of its pages just sort of dancing around.
the story that was being set up (that of the satirical novelist come to the campus to write a book about it) goes off over the hills and leaves us with 150 more pages of delightful characters and witticisms...
and then on top of it there are these crazy metaphors all over the place...(Gertude the novelist has come to Benton college to write a book about it, and has been asking a lot of questions of the narrator, a professor there.)I always answered her questions.
Witty, cruel and ultimately soulless. I know it's supposed to be about Mary McCarthy, but to me it reads very meta.
It's said to be modeled on Sarah Lawrence College in New York where Jarrell taught, though he says Benton is more of a type rather than a specific school.
The latter, particularly, is the metier of Gertrude Johnson, the creative writing professor meant as a caricature of Mary McCarthy, who was once also a faculty member of Sarah Lawrence.
Such scenes as a cocktail party, an assembly, the president's struggles with the self-inflated novelist teaching the school's writing program, will make you smile if not laugh out loud.The main problem is that it's hard to relate to the characters and the academic backdrop of a novel removed 60 years from us.
In fact, he said, "That's what being married to you is like." At first, I was all, "Hey!
Whoa!" But then I kept reading, and Gertrude kept behaving more and more awfully, and I finally had to admit the justice of the charge.
So, any of you who've been wondering what it's like to be married to me, read it.
This book had flashes of clever writing, but much more that was obscure and pointless. Perhaps prose by a poet tends toward taking risks of metaphor and expression that work in the more spare poetic medium, but fail in a prose narrative. There was an underlying snarky tone, in which nearly every character is faulted as pathetic, or mindlessly selfish and provincial, that made it further unsatisfying.
You know how mental retards seem really good and decent and innocent even when they misbehave, because we realize they're too retarded to know any better? The narrator of this novel thinks that way about people in general.
Randall Jarrell is best known as a poet and writes brilliantly, but his book is almost entirely characterization.
Still there are some very funny scenes in this comedy, and anyone who has known the typical university president, who is more an institution than a person, the want-to-be novelist whose every social engagement is simply collecting fodder for her fiction, or the eccentric professor of music, who so often speaks with a German accent and imagines himself a great composer of twelve-tone music will find some very familiar characters on these pages.
Pictures from an Institution is Randall Jarrell's poignant and highly comedic book of a women's college.
In his portrait of Gertrude, a haughty writer in residence, we have a masterpiece of characterization.
The humor in the book is of a rarefied sort - still I would say this is the funniest book I have ever read.
I have read Pictures of an Institution four times to savor over its parody and descriptions and laugh inside at the laser vision of Jarrell.
When I ask people for a truly funny book in literature of the 20th century most say Confederacy of Dunces and then draw a blank.
This novel is a chain of first-rate insult and top-shelf wit. The chain does have some weak links in it though. Somewhere near the middle it begins to sag a bit. Or maybe I just grew tired of quip counting. It tightens up toward the end, for whatever that's worth. It's a mean novel that means nothing (as far as I can tell) to anyone but Randall Jarrell and roman-a-clefists. Brilliant, too. I wish he'd've written more of them.
This is one of many re-reads - Picture from an Institution is just so much one of those books that I pick up to check a quote or whether I recall a passge correctly and then I just get sucked in once more.Still haven't found the particular passage I was looking for, but did find a line that I had previously hunted for fruitlessly, because I thought it must come much later along than page 2.And I'm not actually reading the vintage Penguin edition, but that makes a nice picture!
Not the kind of funny that brings joyous, renewing laughter, but the kind that brings a preening, smug smirk to people so emotionally hollow that they believe "witty" is the same thing and, if not, it's better anyway.
Don't you hate it when a book is recommended as hilarious and it turns out so unengaging, so lacking in sparkle that you sigh and put it down after 50 pages? I do.
Not a perfect novel but hilariously wicked. Full of transposed aphorisms. I heartily recommend to anyone who went to a small liberal arts college.
Look: Jarrell was renowned as a poet and a critic, not a novelist, and this novel-like object doesn't really cohere.
It begins at the end, jumps to the beginning, sketches each of its characters and ends abruptly.
What it is, is a means for Jarrell to construct lavish, ornate angel-hair paragraphs: riffing on Shakespeare and the Bible, warping speech cliches, then leaping suddenly into startling lyric beauty.
But I've a taste for archaic literary takedowns (the main antagonist is supposedly a sketch of Mary McCarthy), so for me it was worth the effort.
His campus novel, as satirically biting as any in that queer sub-genre, is subtitled 'a comedy,' but in many ways (again, like many other campus novels) it is actually more of a farce, or perhaps a farcical character study.
At his best, Jarrell is ingeniously funny, constantly surprising the reader with absurd and insightful metaphors and turns of phrase that place him squarely between P.G. Wodehouse and Edmund Blackadder.
At other times, the novel meanders in uniformity among its few characters, or perhaps rather analysands, going nowhere fast.
I enjoyed this as it gave me a portrait of small college America as seen in the mid 20th century, which is what I hoped for. I did find it difficult to like the characters, and I felt it was definitely a portrait as seen by an observer, although it is written from the point of view of a participant. Possibly this feeling reflects the feeling of lack of real community or depth of relationship apart from between a very few people in the book. Interesting and at points amusing.
My brain turned to cardboard every three pages. Either the air in the buses is stagnant, or this was frightfully dull, or I'm just not the kind of satire fan who appreciates this. I do like Richard Russo's [i]Straight Man[/i] and Kingsley Amis' [i]Lucky Jim[/i], so who knows where the problem lies.
Very drole college fiction. Comedy and the author's lyrical prose, what's not to like? Up there with Lucky Jim.
I'm someone who is constitutionally inclined to agree with Jarrell on questions of politics and culture, which can make getting through a book of his essays a little hard and make some of the poems feel like old news.
It's no mistake that I also teach at a small women's college, and the cultures, for all their differences, feel very similar; a lot of what is said about the college in this book applies just as well to my own, in ways that sadly flatter neither.
What the novel says of Gertrude, who is its central character--“She was a continually witty and occasionally humourous woman”--could be said of the novel itself.
Besides the sense of an unremitting performance, the chief weakness of the novel is that it too often tells about a foible without actually showing an example of that foible: for example, Flo “always said not the wrong but the wrongest, the most wrongest thing—language won't express it”—but the book gives no examples of something Flo says that is so wrong.
And, unlike Amis's Lucky Jim, Jarrall's satire often discovers things to like in academia.
One reads it less for plot than sharp satire, of which Jarrell is the master." No, actually, it's a lot more than that, and that's obvious, again, if you compare it to Lucky Jim: but that would require, oh, knowing anything about the genre before writing the blurb.
If someone savagely portrayed me this way, I'd have his babies.So, if you don't like an academic novel that's light on plot, one whose prose is a set of poetic maxims strung together, then read Jane Smiley's Moo. Otherwise, read this.
This reader does not think, “Wow, all seven of those jokes were hilarious, and not any one more than any other, and all were essential to make the bigger joke land.” This reader thinks, “He’s showing off, and demonstrating poor restraint.” or, Orville Prescott, writing for the Times, May ’54: “Some of Mr. Jarrell's glittering phrases come so close together that one's delighted appreciation of the first makes it difficult to recover in time to appreciate the second at its full worth.
The humor is also not about events or actions (nothing ever happens at Benton), but in Jarrell's exploration of human character.
Funny things do not happen around the characters, we just come to know the humor and the pathos of the characters he has created.
Gertrude, the viciously witty visiting writer, is writing what in the end will have to be a fiction, (to have a plot in a setting where nothing really happens makes it a fiction), but using the characters and atmosphere of the place.
The campus novel by definition will evolve as the campus itself evolves. I love campus novels, so I am trying to read all of them. This is a product of its time. There are some very witty moments and some dragging moments. It is readily apparent that the author is a poet.
More like a two and a half stars, but three stars is too generous."Pictures From an Institution" at first comes across as a novel by a poet who wants to remind the reader that the author is still a poet.
After the college stage is built and after we've met all the composers, authors, spouses, and such, the book closes out, our spring semester ends.There's a passage towards the end of the book:"'Now, I'm a novelist, and naturally I'm prejudiced: I want a novel to to be by a novelist...'"I feel the same way here.
It wasn't really a bad book, but something was missing for me.I think the lack was engagement.
Other reviews here suggest that the book is witty, and it sometimes is.
And of course, with wit comes a kind of emotional disengagement; in some ways this disengagement is the point of wit.But there were other parts of this book that were serious, and even sad.
And it was in these moments that I found myself thinking, to create a distance even from the parts that aren't funny, even when you're not being funny, is a kind of failure of courage.

