https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/258679.The_Swamp_Robber
And this review is not based on the current story, etc.This review only concerns addressing the insane and repugnant idea that the Sugar Creek Gang series needed 'updating for today's readers'.
Gag.The publisher in response to us wrote:"Please note that the entire quote from CBD’s website regarding these books is actually, “The tales and travels of the Sugar Creek Gang have passed the test of time, delighting young readers for more than fifty years”.
All thirty-six books are still in print and now are being updated for today’s readers with input from my five children, who also span the decades from the ‘50s to the ‘70s.The real Sugar Creek is in Indiana, and my father and his six brothers were the original Gang.
I've read like five books in this series. There's nothing really  wrong  with them. I just found them really boring. You'd think I could read a tiny book such as this. It took me two tries to get through it, I believe.
What an excellent boys book - full of action and all the things boys love - guns, spiders, swimming, climbing and robbers. Even better it talks about Jesus in an engaging and frank way. So glad to have this to read to my boys. Looking forward to getting them the next one.
I really wanted this to be a fun book/series that I could read to my youngest son. Unfortunately, I didn't find it that well written. And all of the Christainese stuff thrown in felt forced, unnatural, and irrelevant to the story. I wanted a quality story for boys that had a strong Christian message. This book attempted to be that, but fell well short of the goal. I was bummed.
It's a short book, only 97 pages, but it was such a sweet story!
He actually starts to develop the characters fairly well, but what I love is that it talks about Jesus and the main character, Bill, is learning how to pray and how to 'be a real Christian' like his friend little Jim. Some of the lines are just so pure and real and sweet!
Obviously this is written for a young audience - young boys to be precise - so it was an easy and simple read but I loved it and will definitely have my little boys read it!
This was a wonderful story about boys being boys. Mystery, fun and the transforming power of Jesus.
This is a Christian fiction adventure series aimed at boys, which has never been out of print since its first publication in the 1940s.
The book does not feel outdated at all but reads as a story of a boyhood from the "olden days".
The book is unabashedly written both as evangelical Christian fiction and for boys.
I thoroughly enjoyed all five members of the Gang, found the plot to be realistic, and will be adding this series to my reading rotation as I can find the books.
Sugar Creek Gang: The Swamp Robber by Paul HutchensWilliam Jasper “Bill” Collins and his five friends are growing up in a small rural town.
Mix in a missing old man from the hills, his long-lost nephew, and the resident drunk and it adds up to quite an adventure for a group of boys, all but one under the age of twelve.Overall, this is a fun and easy read.
I would recommend The Swamp Robber by Paul Hutchens to any of my friends with boys or girls ages 8-12.
These were the first books I ever read by myself (not required by school, or my mom, etc.). I loved them. I would devour 2 or 3 in one day. They were a lot of fun, and I will retain fond memories of them for the rest of my life. That said, I know if I read them today, they would get 1 star, maybe 2. When I was younger I would have given them 5 stars, so I split the difference and chose 3 stars.
Watched the movies years ago, which I didn't think were all that great. But hoped the books would be better. I was disappointed to find the book was just like the movie. The author has a really wrong idea of what the GOspel message is, and how one comes to faith in Christ. I would not recommend this book to anyone.
I liked it. There's this one guy who is trying to rob this money from someone who disappeared. No one knows where he is. Everyone thinks he died, but he's just traveling around the world. The guy is dressed up like him and so when he comes into his old house where the guy is living he almost kills the guy. Except for the guy tells him where his treasure is because he's rich.
My father read these books to my brothers when I was a child, so there's a strong sense of nostalgia as I read them to my children now. I love the way Hutchens understands the rough and tumble world of boys, but also their growing spirituality. He makes Christianity everyday and understandable to children.
It was very exciting and adventurous.In the beginning, Circus, Big Jim, Little Jim, Poetry, and Dragonfly went to the river to swim. In the middle, they looked in this tree and found two white things and something black. In the end, they found the swamp robber and the swamp robber got thrown in jail. But, then he got released.
This is a nice series for boys. I'm not going to review them all. I've read a few of them. In general, I like them-they've got a mystery to solve, there's some conflict to resolve, and lessons to be learned. I think after reading too many of them though, it gets a little old.
I read this series of books when I was 8/9, and I still enjoy them.
I liked it......of course I can't help liking mystery books......that's like me.
This series is so amazing! Everyone should read this! Such a page turner!
I read the first one to the Podlings to get them started on the series, should they be interested in continuing. The flow of the narrative didn't work for me, but the kids gobbled it up.
The kids really love these books. They talk about Christ and being a Christian a lot and it kept the children's attention. They want the whole series.
I remember reading this as a boy, and enjoyed reading it to my two boys.
This first story in the series from The Sugar Creek Gang teaches a lesson about reaping and sowing as the gang catches a robber.
I enjoyed the first half of the book but was very disappointed by the rampant armenianism in the latter half. Ruined the book for me.
Really good but a better read for a little boy. I wanted to see what happened in the series so I read it.
I really enjoyed this book! I loved the style it was written in and the characters. Definitely keeping this for by someday kids!
felt way too long... some interesting points but not throughout the book
This is the first book that I've read.
Great adventure book for boys.
