https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/16332.Third_Girl
Poirot is present from page one, and mystery writer and friend Mrs. Oliver appears not long after.
I can’t help but feel as if Christie was having a bit of meta fun in this one, playing off her detective and alter ego against each other.
There’s more than a little indirect commentary when Poirot uses the pretense of an old war connection to meet with the elderly Sir Roderick.
I’ve been reading her works for over three decades now, and I’m almost positive I’ve read all of the Poirot and Marple more than a few times.
كالعادة وانا اقرأ احاول ان احل لغز الجريمة، وطبعا من الصعب ان تعرف القاتل او المجرم مع أجاثا كريستي.في هذا اللغز تدخل فتاة الى بوارو وتدعي انها من الممكن ان تكون قد اقترفت جريمة قتل ثم تهرب من مكتبه.وبإصراره يحاول بوارو ان يعرف كل شيء عن هذه الفتاة مما يقود الى رواية مشوقة ولغز غامض.ولكن من خلال احداث الرواية عرفت انها لم ترتكب الجريمة في نهاية الرواية ولكن لم اعرف ملابسات كثيرة وانتظرت الى النهاية لتفسير الأحداث.مغامرة ممتعة.
Choose Your Own Adventure!You are an apartment in London.
It is the Swingin’ 60s, man, and everything is new and shiny and groovy and covered with flowers.
but three girls in swingin’ London can sometimes equal trouble: Murder Trouble!
Time to bring in an old-school private detective and his square sidekicks to sort this mess out.
Is it time to think of a different path?If you decide to go on a Journey to the Center of the Mind, choose http://www.goodreads.com/review/show/...If you decide it is time to go back to your roots, old-school locked-room style, choose http://www.goodreads.com/review/show/...
- Hercule PoirotAgatha Christie held me captive.I should not have postponed reading this classic this long.
Better late than never.A young woman approaches you and confesses that "She might have committed a murder." and leaves the house without throwing any lights on the matter.
Do you think she's a troubled mad girl, that she's facing some family issues and forget about everything altogether?
Third Girl is a jaw-dropping thriller where you've no clues of any murder or a death.
You know nothing of the girl who confessed.
Maybe, The third girl?
What evil are you dealing with here?Agatha Christie's Third Girl is a must read.
Ashamed to say this was not Agatha Christie on top form. I really wasn't a fan of this, and although the story was explained at the end I still didn't feel it made any sense! Poirot is going a bit downhill I feel by now, and like in the book beforehand that I read, Christie seems fed up of him as a character. It really shows. Interesting story, but too drawn out and just not enjoyable!
She’s kind of the opposite of Poirot, though not weak like Hastings, who is featured in the early novels.*Madness is almost always considered by various characters in Christie plots as the reason why murders are committed, and it is almost never a real consideration in the crime.
In this book, set in the sixties, drugs abound in a way you might not have imagined in the twenties (though booze is always present): LSD, marijuana, cocaine, very attractive to Christie as a lifelong student of chemistry.*Christie published this book in 1966, when she was 76; she never really says how old Poirot is, but it is clear he was retired when she began to publish works with him as a main character in 1920!
Now don’t get me wrong, Christie wrote so many books that I am in no way upset when I read a “bad” one, but it is a little disappointing that I say this is my second to least favorite in the series.
Yet nonetheless, Poirot will sit there and recap every clue he's found for multiple pages (there is seriously one chapter which is just Poirot going, "Nope, still can't find a mystery, but here's everything I've learned just in case it is important").Christie also tries to update the book to the 60s, which rather humorously makes it feel more dated than any of her other books.
What was bothersome about the book was that it had some difficulty in getting started, and when it did get up and rolling, the plot was continuously interrupted by Hercule Poirot ruminating about all the facts of the case up to that point.
Now, a great detective must do this, of course, but i swear it happens ten times in the second half of the book, and Poirot isn't exactly the soul of brevity when talking to himself.
I was able to keep all the facts straight while listening to the story, and had much of the conclusion figured out before Poirot did, which was also slightly annoying.
I am really glad that I did, because this book was very enjoyable!Hercule Poirot is a Belgium detective who is approached by a young girl who thinks she has committed a murder.
Shortly after she disappears and Poirot must track down the clues to get to the bottom of the mystery of this strange girl.I really liked Poirot a lot.
I am absolute rubbish as guessing the endings to mystery books so it was a delightful surprise to me when I reached the end and it was not what I expected at all!
All in all, I really liked this story and look forward to continuing my reading relationship with Monsieur Poirot!
Poirot looks for patterns & death, and Ariadne tries methods that her detective, Sven Hjerson, might use in her popular mystery books.As usual, there are plenty of suspects and red herrings throughout the novel, and this time Christie puts a secret up her sleeve that she doesn't reveal until the end -- a bit of duplicity on her part which wasn't really fair, but worked.
Even toward the end of his career his little grey cells are as busy and sharp as ever; Miss Lemon, the secretary par excellence, makes an appearance, always a step ahead of Poirot, and then there's Ariadne Oliver, a rather unique character, often living off of her intuition or using her mystery novelist skills to offer help in Poirot's investigation.
While looking for the third girl, Poirot & Mrs Oliver took up a third too many pages.
4.6/5 ⭐STORY 4.5/5 -it was slow to start but once things really got rolling it was EXTREMELY well crafted. I didn’t love the very ending though and by that I mean the last line or two of the book fell flat for me.CHARACTERS 4.5/5 - I love Poirot and Ms. Oliver and some of the supporting characters were good too but I found myself getting confused as to who was who.WRITING 5/5 - like I said this was extremely well crafted. I couldn’t believe how smart the mystery was step by step.ENJOYMENT 4.5/5
4.6/5 ⭐️STORY 4.5/5 -it was slow to start but once things really got rolling it was EXTREMELY well crafted.
I didn’t love the very ending though and by that I mean the last line or two of the book fell flat for me.CHARACTERS 4.5/5 - I love Poirot and Ms. Oliver and some of the supporting characters were good too but I found myself getting confused as to who was who.WRITING 5/5 - like I said this was extremely well crafted.
4.5 starsI was so surprised after finishing this book.
The whole book was dedicated to a crime that seemed didn't exists at all.
There was no death, no killer, just a bunch of potential suspects that added to nothing.
It seemed like Poirot was holding straws - he kept looking for clues, clues of something that didn't happen.
Yes, we would think he grew old now, he was not as shrewd and quick as before.
And Poirot, as always, solved the mysteries.
This book was brilliant.
Definitely brilliant, a very true definition to Poirot and his intelligence.
I'm getting increasingly weary of Christie's 1960s writing. It's jumping the shark. The plot is just okay and is more of a vehicle for the author to complain about the beatnik generation. Forgettable fluff.
This is one of Agatha Christie's later Hercule Poirot stories, one in which Hastings has been replaced by Mrs. Oliver as a sidekick and as often is the case, Mrs Oliver becomes an instigator in this mysterious case.A girl shows up asking for Hercule Poirot, says that she 'may have committed a murder' and then decides not to confide in him and vanishes.Who is the girl?
Poirot cannot find that there has been ANY murder....Who does one not know if one has committed murder or not?It is a bit of a frolic, not one of my favourites, the later Poirot novel caricature the character a little too much for my taste, sure he was always a little bit of a caricature, but it gets more extravagant as the decades go by.
There is only one draw back with this novel- There are just too many coincidences. And these coincidences help Poirot solve the case. For the first time we see Poirot genuinely aggrieved when a young girl tells him that he is Old! It takes all the patience and diplomacy of Mrs. Oliver to soothe his nerves. Otherwise a nice intriguing plot with usual twisted ending. Interesting read.
A chance phone call by Mrs. Oliver leads Poirot to figuring out who the mysterious girl is and who is it that she has murdered.
Frankly I think that is pretty apparent in the last couple of Poirot books where you have other characters criticizing Poirot either by how he looks (a very old man with dubious dye on his head) or that he has gotten rounder over the years.
The flow was off though and I think that was because we had so much going on with an additional character that was plopped in (Dr. John Stillingfleet) and we had Poirot and Mrs. Oliver subtly interviewing people around the mysterious third girl.
It's not that Agatha Christie has never written a bad book in her career.
Though I love most of her books, I do not like some of her more political novels.
So while I am not shocked that I disliked this book, never has Christie written something so meandering and pointless.
The plot is actually quite interesting, and the story would have worked if it had been written in a more Christie-like style.
I think perhaps she was experimenting with a different style, which simply did not work out.The book also suffers from my own personal bias.

همیشه از داستان های جنایی لذت میبرم ولی واقعا هیچ داستانی به خوبیه داستان های آگاتا کریستی نیست . کتاب داستان جذابی داشت و به نظرم این که سعی میکنی از طرز فکر و عملکرد ذهن پوآرو سر در بیاری خیلی جذابترش هم میکرد . همیشه به نظرم داستان جنایی خوبه که تا لحظه ی فاش شدن حقیقت نتوانی حدس بزنی که داستان از چه قراره و حتی اگه حدس میزنی بهش شک داشته باشی ؛ باید گفت آگاتا کریستی کاملا در داستانهایش به این اصل پایبنده .
For the first time ever, I got close enough to guess the mystery. Yeay!!But it was a bit odd to see Poirot lost his confidence. It was his arrogance that was the main attraction for all this time.
This one was predictable, time to take a break from agatha christie.
Book 35 and Poirot is still going strong. I absolutely love the character of Ariadne Oliver to give a bit of humour and freshness to the series too.
Ketika detektif berfungsi lebih dari sekadar pencari jalan keluar dari suatu kerumitan mengerikan, tetapi juga sebagai biro jodoh. Inilah fungsi ganda Mpok Irot di buku ini ω)Penyelidikan kali ini diawali karena Poirot yg merasa terluka harga dirinya, setelah disebut 'terlalu tua' oleh seorang calon klien yg menyangka dirinya sendiri telah melakukan pembunuhan--bahkan lebih parah, dia merasa dirinya sendiri sudah gila! Kasus kemudian berkembang makin rumit hingga menyinggung dugaan spionase inte
Kasus kemudian berkembang makin rumit hingga menyinggung dugaan spionase internasional, pemalsuan lukisan, perdagangan narkotika, pemberontakan gadis2 terhormat demi pria2 jalang yg mereka pilih, pemerasan, dan penipuan dengan duit besar.Tapi sebetulnya, jalur asli misterinya sudah cukup bisa tertebak saat Ms. Christie menyinggung soal lukisan masa muda Mr. Andrew Restarick yg dipindah ke kantornya dan dokter Steelingfeel yg mengatakan kondisi Norma yg dalam pengaruh Narkotika.
Maka muncullah penyelidikan dan analisa Poirot yg berputar-putar, kenyataan yg sudah jelas mengenai Norma dan Mr. Restarick juga diputar balikkan oleh pemikiran Poirot sampai saya jadi bingung dan gemes dengan apa maunya si Poirot ini.Lha, di akhir2 cerita, ujung2nya ternyata kasus berakhir sesuai dugaan saya di tengah tadi.

2,3/5*A little bit interesting but I felt something was off. A bit dragging too. Tapi covernya lumayan, artsy and creepy.
en wie is de dader?Op een morgen komt een meisje bij Poirot die zegt dat ze denkt dat ze iemand vermoord heeft, maar voor ze verdere toelichting geeft, rent ze terug de deur uit.
Ze ontdekken dat het meisje op een flat woont met nog twee andere meisjes, en dat haar vader een erg rijk man is, die lang in Zuid Afrika gewoond heeft, maar nu terug is in Engeland, samen met zijn tweede vrouw.
Hij had de moeder van Norma (zijn dochter, die dus 'het derde meisje' uit dit boek is, verlaten toen het kind amper 5 was.Norma houdt zich op in het kunstenaarsmilieu, en haar vrienden zijn wat men kan noemen 'buitenissige types'.
لا أدري كيف تستطيع روايات أجاثا كريستي أن تُبهرني بهذا القَدْر ؟ فكما العادة خلال رحلاتي مع رواياتها
I had previously thought that Christie's worst Hercule Poirot novel had to be The Big Four...till I read The Third Girl.
I never thought I would give Agatha a two star rating for any of her books...till I read The Third Girl.
In trying to obtain the shock value that she became famous for Christie had in her later novels resorted to absurd endings.
I thought I had seen her most absurd endings...until I read The Third Girl.The book does have Poirot in it from the beginning till the merciful ending but the detective does himself no favors by treading water till the last few chapters and then revealing to us the conclusion that would have been so clear to those who were physically present.
Kept me guessing until the end.
