https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/152660.Not_Without_Laughter
Sandy grows up in a poverty-stricken, African-America community in the post-slavery era.
These are the people whose lives we enter -Sandy's grandmother works dawn to dusk washing clothes for rich white folks.
She looks after Sandy.His grandmother's friend was a 'freed girl' and remembers working on the plantation as a slave.Sandy's mother works as a domestic for a rich white woman and spends her spare time pining after her absent husband, Jimboy (Sandy's father).
Sandy has two aunts- Tempy and Harriet.
She doesn't want to be a white woman's domestic.
Harriet and Tempy and his grandmother want Sandy to 'make something of himself'.

How am I still finding out about books? I seriously had no idea Langston Hughes wrote a novel.
This was a lovely coming of age story. It concerns a sensitive and observant boy named Sandy, growing up in Kansas around 1910 or so. Hughes covers themes of racism, poverty, African American history (through memories of older family members) and hardship. There was positivity and hope, though! One of the really positive aspects of the novel was the emphasis on education as a means of improving life. I was very impressed with “Not without laughter” and it was easily five stars for me.
"This party's for the white kids."Willie-Mae did not understand. She stood holding out the coupons, waiting for the tall white man to take them."Stand back, you two," he said, looking at Sandy as well. "I told you little darkies this wasn't your party.... Come on -- next little girl." It's been a few weeks since I finished Hughes' semi-autobiographical novella, but that scene has stayed with me. More than any other event in the novel, this scene typifies the "coming of age" experience of many m
More than any other event in the novel, this scene typifies the "coming of age" experience of many minorities: being told that you're not good enough because of the tone of your skin.
All three women have different perspectives on the relations between African-Americans and white-Americans in the early part of the twentieth century.
She who accepts having fewer rights and tells her grandson that he just needs to work harder than his white classmates to succeed?
Or is it a combination of all these women's perspectives?The story itself is beautifully told.
The young-ish girl who fell in love with the old-timey negro spiritual type lingo--not far from slavery, and learning to understand a people that came before her.
I first fell in love with Langston inside the pages of his poetry book, 'The Dream Keeper and Other Poems.' I was astounded.
I was already infatuated with the written word but his book opened my eyes to the African American voice--I didn't and wasn't learning in school.This book brought about that same sense of reverential awe and I'm astounded by his genius, and his ability to grab the reader in while attempting to tell the story of multiple persons without any confusion and without wavering.
While it's a short book with 218 pages, you are able to grow up with the main character, Sandy.
From the very religious hard-working grandmother Hader, and stand-offish and uppity Tempy, to Sandy's mother Annjee who seems to always be waiting for Sandy's father Jimboy (who you subsequently never hear from ever again), and then to Harriet the "wild child" who ends up being a strong woman for the tight-knit family.
While reading the book you really feel for Sandy and Harriet the most (at least I did), because there were so many potentials for these characters.
This book by Langston Hughes is as well written and relevant as Huck Finn by Mark Twain or The Raven by Poe. Why do we not expose our children to great writings from the Harlem Renaissance?
This literature is as important and a whole lot better written than The Scarlett Letter we all suffered through.
Review your history.
Then read this book for a better understanding of how people viewed Hope and discrimination in the past.
You may be surprised.I felt like I saw a piece of History through new eyes.
Sandy is somewhat of a weak protagonist; much of his growth is explained in paragraphs of prose, rather than through his own actions or agency, and he's rarely more than a passive observer for much of the first two-thirds of the story, when he begins to ask more questions.
Nevertheless, there's something aching and lovely about the book, and the characters who are brought to life more vividly (Hager, Jimboy, and especially Harriet) are quite moving.
Hughes asks difficult questions through the very different women in Sandy's life, and, as a reader, I had no more of a ready answer than Sandy does.
Not Without Laughter Exceptional 5 stars A coming of age story of black life in rural Kansas, seen through the eyes of Sandy, a black youth. The dialect was awesome and the story, touching. I highly recommend this book.
Heartbreaking and touching account of an African American growing up.
His prose is as good as his poetry. One of the best books you will read about the life of poor blacks during the first part of the 20th century.
Instead, we feel like we are the air in the room, thick from humidity and lazily making its way around and through each of the people sharing the space.I highly recommend this book for young black boys who are trying to find their identity, and how their intersectional self fits in in this world.
The book follows the main character from a school age boy through a working teen, and we are allowed to hear his thoughts that keep him awake at night, trying desperately to discover who he wants to be when he’s has pressure coming from all sides to be different versions of himself.I am absolutely going to read more Langston Hughes after this.
So they end up standing in the sun outside, listening to all the kids having fun, feeling angry.Of course my reaction was intended, but it still was very upsetting to read.
In a way, it's very effective, especially since the main character doesn't really react to it at all.
It makes him a bit of a blank canvas where you can project your own reactions on.I'm not really sure what to think of the book overall.
I also think the book did a good job in conveying the importance of education.At the same time, it also showed you all the different shades of "blackness" among the colored community.
As a young boy, Sandy loves all the people in his life - his grandma, his mom and dad, his aunts - and his point of view allows the reader to see the value in each of their very different perspectives.
"When you starts hatin' people, you gets uglier than they is -- an' I ain't never had no time for ugliness, 'cause that's where de devil comes in -- in ugliness!" "I's been livin' a long time in yesterday, Sandy chile, an' I knows there ain't no room in de world fo' nothin' mo'n love.
Sandy's aunt is a talented singer and dancer who dreams of being successful without having to cook or clean for white people.
James, known as Sandy, is a 10 years-old boy that lives with his grandmother, Aunt Hager, his mother, Annjee, and teenage aunt, Harriett.
She is unhappy Annjee, a housemaid, married “a no account” man, and her youngest daughter, Harriett, who works at a country club, is more interested in having a good time than completing her education and attending church.
Unfortunately, Tempy shows disdain for her family and avoids them.Aunt Hager, a washerwoman, is Sandy’s primary caretaker while his mother works.
Like Aunt Hager, Tempy believes in hard work and education.
Before August Wilson, before Lorraine Hansberry and Ralph Ellison, before Richard Wright and even before Zora Neale Hurston, Langston Hughes detailed the realistic lives, dialect, hopes, fears, and emotional concerns of African Americans in the twentieth century.
Hughes is one of the best authors ever to incorporate the feeling and rhythm of jazz and blues within his writing and some of the best examples are here.
More importantly, he comes to the realization that African American culture in music and dance, while beautiful for sure, also serves the ominous purpose of alleviating white American anxiety and guilt over their role in subverting black America.
In this semi-autobiographical novel, Langston Hughes introduces the modern reader to the daily lived experiences of African Americans in the later 19th century.
The book offers a thoughtful and sensitive insight into how African Americans adjusted to life in post slavery, early 20th century America.
As such, it is both a work of fiction, and a preservation of days gone by.It is a beautifully and intelligently written coming-of-age novel and I highly recommend it as an introduction to African American historical literature.
He is and his family struggle severely due to the great depression and their race but still find ways to stick together and survive.
Nothing really sticks out about this book to me, except that it shows you how hard it was to live during the great depression.
The dialogue can be hard at times to read if you aren't from the south.
by a long way through the book I still really had no clue of what was happening, and was able to only piece together enough to make something of the story.
Not my cup of tea, would not read again.
It's just so beautifully written. Hughes is my favorite poet for many reasons - one of them being the way he infuses jazz into his poetry (for example, check "Juke Box Love Song"). This aspect of his poetry shows up strong in this novel. And the story is so compelling and the protagonist is so endearing. I just didn't want the story to end. Go read this book! Now!
It's Langston Hughes. What more needs to be said . . . symbolism, inspiration and themes. The vivid detail in which this story is told brought me back to a time long forgotten.
"Nothing but Love" is a fitting summation of the book as a whole.Hughes' partially autobiographical novel tells the story of young Sandy Williams between the ages of 9 -- 16, and Sandy and his family are the main characters.
After a time as a prostitute, she succeeds as a blues singer.The novel tells the story of how Sandy learns from his family and from other largely African American people in the town and, in the final scenes of the book, in Chicago.
The major theme of different choices and methods for survival and identity-building is to me most potently realized with Tempy, whose motivations Hughes compassionately explores:Tempy pleased Mrs. Barr-Grant by being prompt and exact in obeying orders and by appearing to worship her Puritan intelligence.
In truth Tempy did worship her mistress, for the colored girl found that by following Mrs. Barr-Grant's early directions she had become an expert housekeeper; by imitating her manner of speech she had acquired a precise flow of language; and by reading her books she had become interested in things that most Negro girls never thought about.
I haven’t read any of his poetry but this book is full of poetic prose.
His education in life is then taken over by his Aunt and finally his mother.If you’ve read Gone with the Wind you will understand the vernacular of how these poor black folk speak.
I kept thinking throughout the book why it was titled the way it was because there wasn’t much laughter.
It’s one of those books that you would like to see more of.
It’s a bit of history of poor black folks in a small Kansas town.
I think I must read some of his poetry.

Langston Hughes's first novel is a capable portrayal of a young African-American man's coming-of-age in 1910s Kansas. It is filled with a great amount of detail and family drama, which has some interest for a reader. However, it (mostly) lacks the poetry that Hughes is famous for; the language is workaday and pedestrian, and somehow the narrative lacks vividness and life. It would be interesting to see what a more mature Hughes would have achieved with this material.
My first Langston Hughes. I really loved it. Evocative. I felt like I was studying history in a fully sensual way.
The story's characters, and especially Sandy's family, is one manifestation of this challenge as Hughes attempts to include the varied outlooks of the times.
Langston Hughes tells you why, in doing so promotes understanding, and elevates the characters of this book beyond mere stereotypes.Hager "Aunt" Hager is Sandy's grandmother.
Tempy begin working while in high school for an upper-class white woman who possessed the respectability she so desired.
Each of the members of the Rogers family represent African-Americans in different parts of society from those who are content working for Caucasian people, those who want more, the educated "Talented Tenth" class and those choosing to take on a trade.
The adult characters represent the different views of work which Hughes himself experienced and was taught early in his life which made the story more deeper to relate with, especially having it told through the eyes of a child.
Jimboy and Harriet for example were more critical of African-American treatment by Caucasian people as opposed to Hagar and Tempy.
Not Without Laughter is about a boy named Sandy Rogers from Kansas.
I gave this book a low rating due to it being bland or dry.
You really see how Sandy turns from a boy into a man, and how his past influences, such as Aunt Hager guide him through his life.
I believe that I gave this book a low rating because I couldn't relate, when people read other genres of books they relate to various characters, but since this takes place in a completely different time period there's nothing to relate to, that's not how the world works anymore.
