https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/60132.The_Elric_Saga_Part_I
The 2011 Re-read:Elric of Melnibone: Elric, the sickly albino emperor of Melnibone, combats his cousin Yrkoon's machinations for his throne and winds up on a quest across dimensions for a pair of magical black swords.In the long, long, long, long wait between volumes four and five of The Dark Tower, a friend of mine told me about Elric, an albino with a soul-sucking sword that kept him alive.
The dying culture of the Melniboneans and the magical system were both really interesting to me, both during the initial reading and in the subsequent re-reads.Blood and souls for Arioch!The Sailor on the Seas of Fate: After leaving Melnibone behind, Elric ventures into the Young Kingdoms.
This is just the book for that.The first book, titled Elric of Melnibone, sets up the main character very well.
It also gives us his patron, the Chaos Lord Arioch whose appearance would recur in these books and his most important companion, the magical runeblade, Stormbringer, which would be a blessing and curse to the wielder.The second book, The Sailor on the Seas of Fate, has our antihero on a great adventure, actually three of them that span space and time.
Michael Moorcock wrote this series to be a reversal to cliches of the genre inspired by Tolkien and the like.
Main character Elric is written as a direct antithesis to Conan the barbarian.
This makes The Elric Saga...
good!That being said, it is also kind of creepy.
Elric is a "tragic hero" who losses everything, gradually.
In this unstable world, Moorcock's characters seek some semblance of order.
They rarley find it, but that is what makes his books fascinating.
Mr. Moorcock knows how to destroy his characters by turning their needs against them.
What kind of a person writes like that?
Extremely influential during its time, Elric is one of the pillars of fantasy that a lot of contemporary writers speak about, and the first real antihero in fantasy that bucked traditional fantasy tropes.2/5(ok) Rescored from a 3, it was just ok.Type of Story: Darker anti-hero fantasy that reads like individual novellasPlot – 3(Fine)Characters – 3(Fine)Setting/World Building – 3(Fine)Writing Style – 3(Fine)Heart & Mind Aspect – 3(Fine)Short Summary: Elric of Melnibone is the emperor of a race of people that are feared throughout the world.
I was seriously into Moorcocks Elric stuff as a teenager and now after rereading it after all these years I still consider this to be a classic in the fantasy genre.
The sword, named Stormbringer, feeds on the souls of those that Elric kills giving Elric their lifeforce and energy.
He becomes dependent on Stormbringer like a heroin addict to heroin, needing it and the souls of those that he kills just to function.
I really enjoy Moorcocks Mulitiverse/Champion Eternal concept and would put those original Elric stories at the top of the Fantasy heap, second only to Robert E Howard and Tolkiens work.
Whereas Tolkien's universe is a meticulous moral construct in which good and evil are painted in black and white, Michael Moorcock's universe is gray and rife with antiheroes and indifferent gods.
'The Elric Saga' is the story of an albino emperor and his magic sword called Stormbringer.
A member of a demon race that takes on the form of a sword, Stormbringer feeds upon the souls of its victims.
With a mind and will of its own, Stormbringer's victims are usually those closest to Elric.
Michael Moorcock's prose may be pulp but his ideas are Shakespearian.
Now, mid-way through the first six books (the series has, over the last twenty years, grown to nine, er, eleven books – no wonder I’m series-phobic), and having read much more of Moorcock’s work, I better can appreciate melancholic Melnibonéan Monarch, his adventures, his inspirations (Anthony Skene’s Monsieur Zenith and the The Kalevala's Kullervo, and his integration into Moorcock’s overall Eternal Champion cosmology.
Besides, it’s a fun, quick read, with lots of “hack and slash” action, memorable characters and monsters, and far fewer songs than Tolkien.
Or, more accurately, by the time I was 20 pages into Sailor, I had no desire to read Weird.As I said in my review of the first book, I really want to like Elric, but Moorcock doesn’t make it easy.
Well, that’s simple: because Moorcock will just conveniently limit Elric’s power anytime a reader thinks, “He should just summon a demon to get him out of this.” For example, Elric summoned the bug dude and the day was saved, but the next time he wanted to summon him, the bug dude was like, “Nope, already helped you once, not gonna do it.” It just seems like lazy writing.
The characters are interesting and well developed, while still containing some of the grand scenes you would expect from fantasy.
Every story definitely contains adventure, detailed battles, and strong warriors facing fantastic beings, but the characters were hardly as well developed.
"Dream of Earl Aubec" was an interesting diversion, but felt mostly out of place while still being the same old adventure with weird fantasy story.I expected more from this book.
Seeing Elric change, not only in a number of stories themselves, but through the whole book was excellent to see as well; too often fantasy heroes remain statically the same through each and every adventure.
Yishana is a human woman who Elric falls in love with after Cymoril dies; she is important because she renews hope in Elric and makes him happy.This book has a fantasy setting in a land with magic, elves, dragons, gods and elementals, with technology that as it was in the middle ages.
In his journey he gets revenge on Yyrkoon for trying to kill him and kidnapping Cymoril, encounters god of chaos and law, otherworldly beings like Arioch, and acquires a chaotic magical sword that aids him so he no longer needs drugs for his strength, and steals the souls from the things he kills.
Honestly, THE GRAVEYARD BOOK is quite a bit more disturbing.
In the Elric books, the hero lays waste to lives and souls, serving the evil lord of Chaos, Arioch.
Nothing truly disturbing at all.I guess part of it is that in Elric, you know who's evil and who's not.
What puts a show on cable is when you're not sure who's good and who's bad.
Is Hunter?Maybe that's why I read right through THE ELRIC SAGA BOOK ONE with great pleasure, and have no need whatsoever to pick up the next compilation.
A dark, lush, broodingly-beautiful fairytale of a book that is allegedly Moorcock’s anarchic answer to the religious and royalist myths of Tolkien, and the chauvinism, whether latent or blatant, of the Conan the Barbarian books and their numerous imitators.
Elric is an unwilling adventurer, driven by kingship and cultural conditioning in an otherwise meaningless world.
Not so, the Elric books.
This is the intensely poetic, crepuscular world of the Elric sagas, whose absurdist odysseys are well worth the attention of any reader seeking—like Fox Mulder or Captain Ahab—to impose a habitable grid of truth on an increasingly chaotic and meaningless world.
The first time I read these books it was seperatly in the older paper back editions.
I still have some of the older volumes on my shelf, but not all.
I try to keep most of the Eternal Champion books in my library.Elric is probably the best known and most iconic character MM has produced in his prolific career.
His life exemplifies "life is tough and then you die"....of course you have to add on, "before you die you get to see everyone you love die to..and in most cases you killed them.
Some of the best of the Eternal Champion cycle.Elric is one of the most iconic characters in all of fantasy fiction.
God is Elric a dummy.
The first book, Elric of Melniboné, is a simple enough tale.
Broad characters surround Elric, like his scheming cousin and his lady love.
It's almost a rough draft prequel explaining how the albino prince got his soul-devouring black sword.The two other books, Sailor on the Seas of Fate and Weird of the White Wolf aren't nearly so boring.
They consist of short stories gathered as chapters as Elric travels the world, fighting alien sorcerers with other incarnations of himself culled from the time stream, finding lost cities, and defeating evil wizards.
Sailor is better than Weird, as the tales flow better thematically.Anyways, it's clear why Moorcock is so beloved.

I get the whole anti-hero backlash thing Moorcock is going for here. Problem is, the story still falls flat. Paper-thin characters, nill character development, and disgustingly thin "coincidences" that move the story forward. Oh, and misogynistic to boot? This isn't worth the paper it was printed on.
You either love or hate Michael Moorcock. I love him.
Hated it. Both deadly dull and deeply offensive. No wonder so many people think so badly of the fantasy genre. If this were all there is to it, I'd say they were dead right.
One of the greatest antiheroes ever put in print.
Review by the founder of Inkling Scrolls: https://leonahenry.wordpress.com/2014...
Read originally in Jan. 2008Re-read Oct. 2015Elric of Melnibone - 4 starsThe Sailor on the Seas of Fate - 3 starsThe Weird of the White Wolf - 2 Stars
Moorecock is a classic, but I can't stand his prose. His hero is uninteresting and I don't like the constantly shifting setting. Fantasy? Sci-fi? He jumps around, and I don't find it engaging.
The book was ok. The story line was not very strong and I didn't really care for the main character.
Very unique, it was a pleasant surprise how much I enjoyed this. These stories get in your head in an unusual way.
Book #2 is off in the Elric Saga Part III, where it comes up as book #7.
That odd quirk of publishing aside, these books tell of the adventures of Elric, the drug-addled, weak, albino jerk.
He is Emperor of Melniboné, a sadistic empire of other drug-addled jerks, and wielder of the cursed sword Stormbringer, a character in it's own right who is also a jerk.
Sounds grim, and it is, but it's also a refreshing twist on a fantasy hero.
But the lead character really resonates, and is a refreshing change of pace.
Despite only giving it 3 stars, I enjoyed it tremendously - it was about the campiest book I've read in my life, and it was a wild ride from start to finish.
The main character is an incredibly tortured Gary Stu, and there are precisely 3 female characters in the book, and he bones all of them (that is like 90% of why it only got 3 stars).
This book would have been laughed out of an agent's office and into a dumpster had Moorcock tried to get it published today.
I didn't realize until I read most of it and investigated the story but it apparently appeared initially as disjointed short stories.
I think it would have been much better to read those stories separated by long periods of time.
Several of the short stories were entertaining on their own.
As a book it didn't seem to have a point.
Of course so were the male characters, come to think of it.
From time to time Elric gets a male travelling companion.
Except for the name and the physical description these companions can't be distinguished from one another.Again, some decent short stories.
The writing style is in the traditional high-brow style of epic fantasy.
Though this book is really 3-book-in-1, each book is rather short (>200 pages) for epic fantasy.
But it works.
The Lords of Choas are in battle with the Lords of Law. Because so much of the focus is on Elric's relationship with The Lords of Choas, the story travels realms.
I usually don't prefer books that take place in other realms where the author paints a picture of things that don't exist.
But it actually worked fairly well here.
The saga reminds me of Roger Zelazny's Chronicles of Amber.
I enjoyed this book and will continue on with the saga.
It's better if you don't go into it expecting an actual story, if that makes sense.
I was unprepared.
The writing style was very detached, like you're one great big step backwards from everything that happens.
I mean, literally everything is like: "I have fallen into the sinkhole.""Alas, are you sinking?""I am sinking.""I will save you.""I am saved."Like, at times the writing style was so absurd it made me laugh when it wasn't supposed to.
We have arrived."So I guess my review in this case should actually be:I decided to read this book.
It’s been a while since I last read the series, but it was probably the second serious fantasy series I came to, after The Lord of the Rings.
The language is gloriously baroque, the tale doom-haunted from the start.
Reading it as a kid, I think I glossed over the trippier parts of the tale, but knowing the author’s association with Hawkwind, these days that’s part of the charm.I will say that Moorcock’s female characters leave much to be desired, alas.
For someone that railed against the more traditionalist ideas of fantasy, this feels a particularly noticeable blindspot.
