https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/16070521-come-away-with-me
Review completed November 11, 201246 Kindle pages refer to the term beautiful. Even the chocolate cake and the aircraft are beautiful. *facepalm* Come Away With Me is one of the worst books I've read this year. Let's get down to business…DNF at 51 %. Reading this book is clearly very unhealthy for me cos I'm sure that my blood pressure went through the roof. This story is simply 'blah'. Honestly, I had to look twice when I saw all those four and five-star ratings and I thought "What is wrong wit
Did we all read the same book?" *shakes head*I apologize to you all for using the term "shallow" pretty excessively in my review of Come Away With Me. While we're on it, the author applied the term 'beautiful' 130 times in the context of human beings.
Come Away With Me is clearly OVERPOPULATED by beautiful and shallow people.
*rolls eyes*)After an unpleasant incident at his parents' house, I thought she was smart enough to realize she didn't do anything wrong.
(blah...*rolls eyes once more*) I wanted to f@ck you right there at the table." (*gasp*)"Luke Williams!" I pull back and stare at him, shocked."It's true.
Of course, she’s taken no photos of the guy…even though he’s beyond beautiful.So, everything is sorted out eventually and Luke Williams, hiding his famous identity from Natalie, is suddenly struck with lust for the sexy Natalie…..Natalie is just as struck with lust for Luke…..he’s beautiful, he’s gorgeous, he’s beautiful“Clearly, Mr Beautiful Blue Eyes and Sexy Greek God Face is a loony tune.” Hell, Luke Williams is doing something to me…..never mind to poor old Natalie, with all her body issues!!!!!
But what I am sure is that I don’t think I will continue with this series.Of course, there are so many other readers who loved this book……and I totally understand that it works for some…for me….it did not!!!!
A Nice, Predictable RomanceAs far as sweet, heartwarming romances go, this was a pretty good choice.
Yet, before they can even establish their relationship, they are having problems.
After only a day or two together, they're having their first big fight.
From that point forward there is drama, drama, drama!Now, I love stories with a large helping of conflict and plenty of angst.
It was good, even if I spent a fair amount of time rolling my eyes.
Somewhere along the way, it fumbled.I won't be rereading this one, but it was alright for a one-time listen.
Seriously, I read most of this book with this happy little smile on my face and my heart a-fluttering.On a beautiful quiet morning, Natalie is out on the beach taking photos of the scenery when she is suddenly confronted by a gorgeous man enraged that she was taking his picture and demanding that she turn over her camera.
Seriously, Kristen Proby sure knows how to keep her readers happy :DIf you love steamy romance without excess drama, then definitely add this book to your TBRs!
*****FOUR STARS*****{BR with Mel} I have had this book on my TBR since 2012 and decided to read it since I'll be meeting Ms Proby at a book signing in NYC next weekend! When I started this, I thought the dialog was a little corny and that it was not going to be a hit with me. In the end, I truly ended up enjoying this one so much!!!Natalie is a photographer and Luke was once a Major Hollywood actor. He hasn't acted in several years and loves his life of seclusion in Seattle. When the two meet, t
In the end, I truly ended up enjoying this one so much!!!Natalie is a photographer and Luke was once a Major Hollywood actor.
When the two meet, they don't hit it off instantly, as Luke mistakes Natalie for a Paparazzi and tries to confiscate her camera.
But, funny enough, I really freaking enjoyed this story more than I ever thought possible.
I loved Luke and his sexy, possessive and alpha ways.
I am looking forward to reading Jules' book some time soon.If you are in need for something light with plenty of steamy sex and some lovable characters, I would definitely recommend this to you!!
Of course, he’s lying to her by omission and you can expect sparks to fly when she eventually finds out.Luke is a hero to die for – he’s attentive, romantic, pretty nifty between the sheets and really quite devoted to Nat. He’s a beautiful, sexy, sweet, jealous control freak.
She’s not going to take any crap from anyone, however rich they are and certainly puts Luke through his paces.Their story is incredibly steamy and this is an erotic romance that has more sex scenes than you can shake a stick at!
DNF!!!!!This book irritated me.
It was awful.
The reviews I saw were all good and I was excited.
But this was a real let down.
I am only 22% in I don't even know anything about Luke yet and I don't care to keep reading to find out.
I hate how they just keep on going on about each others looks, gah.
Yes, yes, yes I am sure you are both amazingly beautiful and don't even know it!!
Sure!
Am I making any sense on this crazy awful review rant?Anyway I am sad,I had such high hopes.
I was sent an arc for an honest review by the Author a while back but I decided to wait and read it with everyone else as is normally the case with BOFF reads; which I love.Unfortunately I didn't love it, and I hate when that happens because I know how much an Author puts into their story.
However, there are so many amazing books out there and I have my integrity and always endeavour to leave an honest review no matter how much it pains me to do so like in this case.So yeah, this one didn't work for me.
Strong start and then NothingIn the beginning Luke and Natalie were totally swoon worthy:Luke is a famous actor and Natalie is a freelance photographer.
I was hooked after the first chapter.
Luke assumes Natalie is taking his picture and attacks her for her camera.
I really loved how Luke and Natalie met and fell in love.Sadly the rest of the story lacked drama and excitement.
They fell in love, have lots of hot sex, got engaged, pregnant and got married.
I keep reading anticipating something major coming but the story stayed its course.I loved Luke's coffee deliveries in the mornings though, so sweet!
It’s a game of hit or miss and I'm getting a lot of misses lately.
I like trying out Indie authors.
- There are events that were thrown in from out of nowhere and at times all at once without even making the characters breathe.
- The author has a lot of ideas and she crammed it in the first book of a series.
That's the main reason of using the Pill unless stated otherwise.
The explanation of it not working is unbelievable after the heroine strongly claimed that she never missed a pill and that she is taking it correctly.
What the hell, folks?
Why are you all squeeing about this book?
Not only is it written in a terrible first person, present tense POV, but this bitch says "I walk home quickly, feeling Luke’s eyes on my Kardashian-esque backside until I turn the corner toward my house."First of all, "Kardashian-esque" is not a fucking word.
Second, that little line right there tells me that the author is going to attempt to sprinkle in some pop culture references so that the reader will associate this particular book with "trendy"...I've already rolled my eyes and tossed my e-reader away - at 3%.
Re-read 8/1/16I've been in a big re-read mood lately so of course I had to read one of my favorite couples again!
This book is...
FREE on Amazon US today (6/1/2015)Stand-alone book 1.BLURB:Being confronted on the beach by a sexy stranger wasn't part of Natalie Conner's plans for a peaceful morning taking photos. And why on earth would he think she's taking pictures of him, anyway? Who is he? One thing’s for sure, he’s hot, and incredibly romantic, feeding Natalie’s wounded soul.Luke Williams just wants the world to give him a break, so seeing yet another camera aimed at his face has him ready to pounce on the beauty behin
FREE on Amazon US today (6/1/2015)Stand-alone book 1.BLURB:Being confronted on the beach by a sexy stranger wasn't part of Natalie Conner's plans for a peaceful morning taking photos.
One thing’s for sure, he’s hot, and incredibly romantic, feeding Natalie’s wounded soul.Luke Williams just wants the world to give him a break, so seeing yet another camera aimed at his face has him ready to pounce on the beauty behind the lens.
What will happen to this new relationship when she discovers what Luke’s hiding?http://www.amazon.com/Come-Away-Me-Se...
FREEBIES are often good for MORE than one day, I have gathered all my FREEBIES on a special shelf: Kindle-freebies (currently over 430 books)https://www.goodreads.com/review/list...
Because what Kristen Proby did was bring to life an incredibly sweet, and blessedly angst-free love story that completely blew me away.
And offered up more swoon-worthy moments than almost any other book I have ever read.Luke is...hands down...the most romantic male character I have ever stumbled upon in fiction.
No, Luke's sweetness was...just right in the scope of this incredibly romantic story, if that makes any sense?!
She has curves, and Luke never stops letting Natalie know how much he appreciates those curves.
I was truly sad to see Luke & Natalie's story come to an end, because I loved being lost inside their world.
2.5 StarsI knew going in to this that it wouldn't be a favorite of mine, but I'm a stickler for reading order. And it wasn't necessarily HORRIBLE. In fact, I can see the appeal for some readers. But I've been much more stingy with stars as of late, and this book just didn't cut it. So 2.5 Stars... My Synopsis: Natalie is a photographer living in...you guessed it, Seattle. One fine morning while walking along the beach, snapping photos of the beauty that surrounds her, she is suddenly assaulted b
Now, don't get me wrong...I like sex in books.
In fact, I LOVE sex in books...when it's done right.
In Come Away With me, there was seriously a sex scene in nearly every other scene in the book.
Give me one ten page love scene with tons of description, slow, aching movements, and a drawn out climax to ten short and sweet sex scenes that feel like a handful of slam, bam, thank you ma'ams.There just wasn't much room left for a fully fleshed out plot.
I liked both Luke and Natalie a lot.
I had a few issues with the relationship between the 2 main characters.Natalie Conner is a photographer who is confronted one morning, while taking pictures, by Luke Williams, who thinks she is taking his picture.It was a nice set up for a nice light readHowever (view spoiler)[ There were times I wanted Natalie's best friend to tell her to run, run far away from this man!On the first day they meet Luke goes from being playful and charming to serious and looking like he has been kicked in the stomach, for no apparent reason.
Did I like this book ?
The first quarter of the book was really good..
I really liked how Luke and Natalie met on the beach--that was really cute.
Meet at Nats house, have sex , meet at Lukes house, have sex, back and forth.
Don't get me wrong, the sex scenes were really steamy and sweet, but sometimes the talking was just wierd..
Just seemed wierd..
" come my love".
I would probably classify this one as a good beach read.
Alot of people have really liked it though..
DNF at 40%. Super repetitive in the dialogue, the characters weren’t that interesting and it was just BLAH. Even living in Seattle and having Seattle references did not save this book for me.Why do I try to read contemporary romance?! If I think I’m going to try this genre again, I need to revisit this book review again. 😂😉
“Because you’re the first woman I’ve brought into my home and all I can think about is getting your beautiful body naked and fucking you senseless. I need to know if there is any competition. I don’t share, Natalie.” .............. Holy Jesus, he wants to fuck me. Well, back at you, bossy man.  Yeah , I might have tweaked that a little bit . Like , you see those full stops there , those are actual words ... I just thought that might be enough to catch your attention ...  Uh oh , somethings rea
The blurb pretty much says everything that needs to be said , but you seriously have to read this book and see what its all about !
' * wishful thinking * and Natalie , I would love to be BFF's with her for sure !!
Yeah , this book makes you want to believe that love exists , that one day you'll find your prince charming and that one day love will surely come around !
* Wipes tears * Kristen Proby makes an impressive debut , and I'm sure as fuck that I'll be reading more of her works !!!
I am glad this book is over with. I felt like this book was all sex with a minimal amount of story. I hear the next book is better but I am in no rush to read it. On to the next book.
Come Away with me is a sexy, steamy, and swoony contemporary romance.Natalie is a photographer who is out early taking photos at the beach when she is confronted by a hot guy yelling at her for her camera.
She is loyal and feisty (when she went off on Luke's sister :-) Luke and Natalie both had great family and friends that contributed a lot to the story.This story was sweet, romantic, and steamy...
And Luke had to be one of the most swoony guys ever!
I love this story but I couldn't get into this audio at all. The narrators voice just wasn't the one for me and I hated that you could sometimes hear her taking deep breaths before talking. I also found the sex scenes very awkward to listen to her read so I actually started to skip over those. Seeing as the same narrator does this whole series I highly doubt I'll be listening to anymore from it. Audio rating: 2 StarsStory rating: 4 Stars
Come away with me and we'll kiss...On a mountaintopCome away with me And I'll never stop loving you...And I want to wake up with the rain,Falling on a tin roofWhile I'm safe there in your arms...So all I ask is for youTo come away with me in the nightCome away with me The novel 'come away with me' by Kristen Proby happens to be a rather stickily,sweet romance read that revolves around our leads,Natalie and Luke, who great ,meet and fall in love.Natalie is a free lace photographer who looses her
little did she know that her handsome ,sexy mugger just happened to be none other that, the star of the successful nightwear series, brooding vampire male lead , Luke Williams.intally i found the story to be rather cliche and predictable:she meets him,donst recognize him,he decides to lie by omission ,which of course blows up on his face...they break up,kiss & make up .ALL IN A SPAN OF ONE WEEK and for the first 50%,e-book wise.
Sometimes I thought the hero, former movie idol Luke (who had professional similarities to Robert Pattinson but no way did he look like him) was almost too good to be true (sweet, kind, generous, protective, incredibly sexy) and at other times I thought this guy might be hard to live with, because he was also a little too protective, needy, insecure, and with a jealous streak.
I liked the book, and the whole series so far, even though there's not a whole lot of conflict going on.
On the one hand, I love the idea of the celebrity man/normal woman romance.
The two main characters really piss me off and I don't know if I can keep going, or whether they'll end up growing on me (like a fungus).I guess what turned me off was the fact that even though Natalie had no friggin clue who Luke was, or the fact that she initially thought that he was mugging her for her camera, or the fact that he is clearly keeping things from her (and she's fully aware of this fact)...
Sexy as hell!! Where is MY Luke? That's what I was left asking myself, because I WANT ONE OF HIM. Nat is the woman he never thought he'd find, and he wasn't anyone she was looking for. But they slammed into each other and that was IT for both of them. It wasn't smooth sailing for them, but when the water was calm, the heat was turned WAY UP and when it was rocky, you had faith they'd find their way. I'm anxious to get glimpses of Like and Nat's future together in Jule's story - Fight With Me!
Have you ever had that book that everyone loved, and for some reason you just are not getting into it.
I know lots of woman love books like this and truly, this is not a reflection on the author it is just a personal preference.
On too Luke, well I think this quote in the book describes him perfectly……“I’ve fallen in love with a beautiful, sexy, sweet, jealous control freak.”Seriously, this guy had mood swings worse than a chick pmsing.
It makes it very hard to like a character and makes my own moods fluctuated way too much.
“I wake to the sun across my face and no covers over my naked body. Luke’s face is between my legs.”  I sometimes seriously wonder what all these turbulent romantic stories that I ravenously read have done to my perception of ‘romance’ itself and it is books like this one that amplify those questions in my head even more. Why is it that I feel like I need industrial quantities of angst in a fictional relationship to feel satisfied at the end of it? Has my romance-sensor become broken??This is
Has my romance-sensor become broken??This is a lovely story of two alike individuals unknowingly looking for the same things in life.
Their connection is initially born out of anonymity, Natalie not recognising Luke, but their growing connection has nothing to do with who they are and everything to do with what they crave in life the most - someone to trust their heart with.As their relationship develops it simply flat-lines.
There is a certain desperation to their connection, a hopeless need to stay together and fight to make it work, making this a story of ‘staying together’ rather than ‘fighting not to break up’.
2.5 Stars - There wasn't anything really wrong with this book (except for the annoyingly over use of the term 'beautiful') it just didn't have enough story telling or depth for me. It was all a bit too easy - boy meets girl fall in love (way to quickly) throw in a few arguments, wham bam then ends the story, there was a lovely happily ever after ... Maybe there is such a thing as a book being too nice. Just a little drab for me sadly, but an ok read.
