https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/40409102-this-is-how-it-always-is
“Well. Usually boys don’t wear dresses to preschool,” Rosie admitted carefully. “Or tights.”“I’m not usually,” said Claude. This, Rosie reflected, even at the time, was true. I've been going back and forth on whether I wanted to read this for a while. On the one hand, the premise interested me, the critics' reviews have been gushing, and the average GR rating is impressive. On the other hand, the few negative reviews have been calling it words like "sentimental", and even Kirkus begrudgingly ad
Usually boys don’t wear dresses to preschool,” Rosie admitted carefully.
On the other hand, the few negative reviews have been calling it words like "sentimental", and even Kirkus begrudgingly admitted that it is "cloying at times".
They are a loving, hilarious, complex and dysfunctional family, all trying to do right by one another (and screwing up many times along the way).
Drawing from her own experiences, the author explores how the family reacts to the realization that Claude (now Poppy) is transgender.
“Little boys do not wear dresses.” Miss Appleton tried to channel her usual patience.
She emphasizes that it's just as easy to make mistakes by not doing or saying things as it is by doing or saying them.Frankel is a tremendously talented writer who imbues her books with beautiful emotion.
But this small exchange in the book moved me the most:"Tears crawled out of Claude's eyes and nose, and besides he was only five, but he tried to comfort his parents anyway.
Sad is okay.'"Maybe sometimes things happened a little too easily, but I still loved this book.
FLOAT!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! Because this has been selected as"REESE'S BOOK CLUB" pick for October, 2018. I'm pretty sure Reese chooses her books by reading my blog because I seem to always read them first (j/k). Anyway, many congrats to Laurie Frankel and her ever-so-lovely novel. This must be like the book version of winning the lottery.Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/Dear Book: Also, be forewarned I highlighted pretty much the entire thing.I usually am a person who opts
Also, be forewarned I highlighted pretty much the entire thing.I usually am a person who opts not to read a synopsis before starting a book (as was the case here) and encourages others to do the same.
. “Alt Righters” feel free to spew hate wherever they see fit and although I know I have none of those people on my friend list I’m not naïve enough to believe those types of deplorables won’t crawl out of their baskets in order to troll every review of this book they possibly can and dump their ignorance on the masses I’m going to tell you the basics.This is the story of Rosie and Penn’s family.
This is How It Always Is   was emotional, touching and at times a bit saccharine but I loved every page!This is a story of love, family and acceptance. It is also the story of young Claude who has gender dysphoria. Claude is the youngest of Rosie & Penn's five children and the result of their final attempt at having a daughter after 4 boys. Claude was a special child and a perfect addition to the family. He walked and talked at 9 months and was baking 3-tier cakes and writing and illustrat
was emotional, touching and at times a bit saccharine but I loved every page!This is a story of love, family and acceptance.
Claude is the youngest of Rosie & Penn's five children and the result of their final attempt at having a daughter after 4 boys.
Although Frankel chose to make the family almost overly accepting (thus my comment about it being saccharine at times) the story was balanced by the honest confusion, fears and emotion displayed.
It wasn't easy - the decisions made were fraught with worry from both Penn & Rosie, Poppy and even the other children.
(We need more of these books in general.) On the other hand, at times, there were such unrealistic situations taking place that I was wondering if the author was living in fantasyland- you'd have to suspend disbelief to enjoy it.
At its core though I did like this story so 3* it is.The greatest thing that felt unrealistic to me:- Rosie & Penn.
(Other than this family, there is no blatant violence against them that is really threatening, for the most part people understand or don't know.) Then when Claude's secret is revealed, Rosie takes Claude to Thailand.
More books like this need to make their way onto shelves & into hearts.
However, the last third of this book focuses heavily on those less fortunate and the ways that other societies treat their trans citizens.
I think that by focusing the story on a privileged, progressive family, Frankel is able to build a narrative that illustrates some crucial things:1.
She really scrapes the depths of why it's no different than any other thing that makes a person unique, in a way that doesn't seem "hippie-ish" or "new age." It's just the facts.2.
Even families who are set up to be perfect support systems in seemingly understanding communities encounter bigotry.
The ‘very-VERY’ beginning ....”Once Upon a Time Claude Was Born”, I felt the writing was ‘too busy’- ‘too wordy’...But then....It got FUNNY...really hysterical: We get a glimpse of Rosie and Penn’s dating life,(inspiring dating life...I was impressed), sex life, work schedules, - marriage - and how they manage their lives with 5 boys.
Plus....later in the book, I wasn’t convinced a family secret that developed (withhold really), was the best choice to insert in the storytelling.
A little too long...yet....it’s easy to forgive because most important — the author took a complex subject - created a loving family with wonderful child character in Claude/Poppy.
Recommended....enjoy this family: Claude/Poppy,...
FOUR STARSThis is the October pick for the RW book club.
The author was inspired by her own son who decided one day to wear a dress to a party and then every day afterwards.
This is How it Always Is explores one family's reactions and journey when their little boy declares he wants to be a girl when he grows up.
No matter what how he decides to present to the world.The audio production is 5 star all the way!
The author tends towards wordiness and meandering sentences that tend to annoy me, but I still enjoyed the book very much.
The only reason I finished this is because I think the topic of discussion is important and I wanted to give it my attention.
This book is a character study, and not just of Claude/Poppy, but the entire family.
I made no real connections with any of them individually, but did feel the love amongst them as a whole.
Character studies are just not my thing.
I don't enjoy it.
I don't want to study fictional characters this closely.
I'm frustrated even thinking about it.
I did not enjoy reading this book and I will not recommend it to anyone.
I know Thailand has one of the biggest and open communities of transgenders in the world but the storyline with Poppy finding herself in Thailand felt a bit forced and honestly dull.
To me it took me out of the story for a bit and I lost that emotional attachment I was having for the novel up to that point.
Reading a book like this make me so aware how under represented this community is and I'm glad there are authors like Laurie Frankel out there that are sharing these stories.
They don't always get it right but they try.And if you're not a parent, there is still much to enjoy about this book as it relates to unconditional love, compassion, and the circumstances many transgender individuals face every single day.Parenting is hard, and transgender or not, we all have hard, tough things to deal with at one time or another.
And no, not every family can pack up and move or traipse off to Thailand when things get tough, but wouldn't it be lovely if everyone who struggles could move to a place where they find acceptance and support?I have two minor criticisms: I'm not a fan of fairy tales inserted into books and I grew tired of the father's re-telling of one to his children.
From a young age it was clear that their youngest son Claude was different from the other boys in the family.
During the next few years his family observes him wearing dresses and barrettes in his hair.Acting in the best interests of their child, Rosie and Penn are supportive of Claude’s feelings.
They relocate to Seattle where they seek a fresh start for Poppy and their family.
Ultimately, this causes stress and grief to the entire family.This novel is about two parents seeking optimal choices for their family where one of their children is transgender.
“You never know. You only guess. This is how it always is. You have to make these huge decisions on behalf of your kid, this tiny human whose fate and future is entirely in your hands. Who trusts you to know what's good and right and then to be able to make that happen. You never have enough information. You don't get to see the future. And if you screw up - if with your incomplete contradictory information you make the wrong call - nothing less than your child's entire future and happiness is
You have to make these huge decisions on behalf of your kid, this tiny human whose fate and future is entirely in your hands.
And if you screw up - if with your incomplete contradictory information you make the wrong call - nothing less than your child's entire future and happiness is at stake.
This book is first and foremost about parenting.
Absolutely recommend.Note: I can see how this book may be controversial to some given the age of the child but I think this exact element showcases the theme of parenting that much more.
I know which I would want to choose.
From the blurb: This is how a family keeps a secret…and how that secret ends up keeping them.This is how a family lives happily ever after…until happily ever after becomes complicated.This is how children change…and then change the world.This is Claude. He’s five years old, the youngest of five brothers, and loves peanut butter sandwiches. He also loves wearing a dress, and dreams of being a princess.When he grows up, Claude says, he wants to be a girl.Rosie and Penn want Claude to be whoever Cl
I felt immensely sorry for the family in their struggle to survive in their social environment.However, I was not convinced that a ten-year-old boy could have the insight in his dad's stories as presented in this book.
Although the characters were great, the choice of professions for the parents were just too convenient to make this book work.
A person can either read reports, or watch detailed interviews and documentaries on the subject, and get the real situation, or get informed through a book like this in which the reader is soft-soaped in a way.
Instead of writing a review I'll just link you to my book talk where I gush over this book for 14 minutes straight: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=D8Bcv...And also I agree with everything Emily May said in her review.
I don't want to give any hints as to what this book is about. Don't read about it first, don't read the blurb on the dust jacket. Don't read a recap. Just read it, as I was told to do. You won't regret it.
Speaking as the mom of a mildly autistic child, I'm recommending this book as a valuable emotional resource for any parent of a child with differences from the norm.
(Whatever the heck "norm" is.) I am not a perfect parent.
I yell, I swear, and worst of all, I have to blink and think twice before defending my child from random blatant unfairnesses the world visits upon her.
Parents of exceptional children spend much energy trying to anticipate where that next fire is going to spring up, and still we're pulled up short.
Just like "normal" kids' parents.
I have two young children and could relate with their desire to allow their child to live their authentic self while at the same time being torn between social norms.
Just yesterday while shopping I discouraged my son from choosing purple glittery running shoes and encouraged him to pick the ones that were less ‘girly’ and I had a moment where I reflected on this book and reminded myself of how ingrained social norms are.
Although I enjoyed reading about the family, I found their utter acceptance seemed a bit unrealistic to me at times.
a vast majority of transgender children do not have such understanding and accommodating parents and siblings, 2.
most families with transgender children can not afford to move a few states away to a neighborhood of their choice in the hopes of escaping discrimination, and 3.
Also, once that cat is out of the bag, most families won't be conveniently taking their transgender child on an escape to Thailand so they can experience a culture where transgender is more acceptable, and that child is unlikely to be immediately accepted back so casually at the school dance once he or she returns.
I got the gist of it all.This is a good modern times family that accept things, like they have accepted Claude their young son who needs to be Poppy.We learn from the start the complexity of her sons feelings at an early age.It's a powerful book with a message.There are some fun things that will make you smile.I've given it a 3 star simply because I really struggled reading this, not because of the subject matter, not because of the complexity, more from the readers POV in keeping with it.My thanks to Headline via Net Galley for my copy
(Can you tell that the perfect thing got a little old for me??)UNTIL.Claude, the youngest boy, begins to show signs of being transgender.
The kindergarten teacher is a bit of an asshole and tells little Poppy that she has to pick (NOW, IMMEDIATELY in kindergarten *really heavy eye roll*) whether she wants to be a boy or a girl because no one will understand if she's both or neither.
Penn's feelings are hurt by this because they had a little disagreement and he thinks Rosie just wants to get away from him.
When I started this book I wasn't sure I was going to like it. I thought it was going to be preachy and would try too hard to sway the reader to form an opinion. It didn't. Frankel simply told a beautiful story about what the power of secret/lie does to the fabric of a family. Well done!
No. That being said, Frankel has written a helluva good book.
The Walsh-Adams family is filled with males; Father Penn and sons Roosevelt, Ben, Rigel and Orion (twins) and Claude.
Frankel fills her story with plenty of humor to buffer the subject matter she deals with beautifully.
This is the first book of hers that I have read, and I do want to check out her early works.
I did not feel as if I were being forced to change my opinions about the subject.
I feel this is necessary because of my strong reaction to this book.I wish I hadn't read the Author's Note letting me know how deeply personal this story was to Frankel because she has a transgender child, as it makes me hesitant to write a thoroughly honest review (as if she's ever going to read this!).Let me first emphatically state that I'm glad a contemporary book exists that showcases a family with a child who is anatomically male but decides, at a young age, to begin identifying as a girl.
I feel a whole lot of love for this story. For the characters, for the message of acceptance and inclusion, for the nuances of the middle-path. Highly recommended.
This is a book about parenting, and Rosie and Penn are awesome as they navigate the always-unknown and unpredictable territory of raising children.
It’s all put into short but insightful scenes that illustrate different reactions and responses (not everyone is as understanding about boys in dresses as Rosie and Penn), or possibilities and potentials (hormone blockers or not?
My one concern with this book is that I’m not sure how I would see it if I were a transgender person myself, with parents less understanding than Rosie and Penn.
What I loved most about the novel is the honesty in the parental struggle of allowing your child to express himself and protecting him.
Another piece to this novel that I found enlightening is how schools and administration respond to transgender children.
What I enjoyed was the domestic fiction piece: how this affects the other children in the family.
Plus it is an enjoyable read of parenting boys and parenting five children.In this novel, the author chose to have the family keep the biological gender of the youngest boy a secret.
I really wanted to like this book, and after the first couple of chapters I thought I'd love it.
This father threatens the child/parents of child with the gun because the 5 year old is a "faggot" and because that is what mid-western gun owning people do!
What really bothered me most about this book was there was such great potential to tell a story about a very important topic, maybe even to address bullying.
I keep forgetting why." My feeling is the author wanted it to be controversial, and thought that because of the subject matter, it didn't necessarily have to be well written.
3.5 starsThis is How It Always Is was well on its way to being a 5 star read for me.
I LOVED parts 1 and 2.
Part of why I liked the first parts of the book so much were the interactions between all the siblings and their parents.
For example, while it was lovely gesture, would a 10 year boy really ask a 10 year old Claude/Poppy to dance and risk the ridicule of his friends and classmates?
Despite the issues mentioned above, I would still recommend this book even though it was bumped down to a 3.5 star read for me.
However, it's not one person dealing with this struggle, no it's friends, families, and loved ones.
Not everything goes has planned because sometimes decisions can bite you in the ass.I absolutely loved the beginning of this book.
Before you yell at me after reading this review, I just think that if a person decides to go through with this big decision..
that they wouldn't just give up when things got tough.
I have no children at the moment but I'm sure as hell going to support them in any decision they want..
I also absolutely loved Claude from beginning to end.
