https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/828210.Tarzan_and_the_Leopard_Men
ERB writes Tarzan as a force of nature, with behaiviorisms and character traits far more impressive than most fictional persona.
This book, like all other Tarzan novels, is carefully crafted, orchestrated, and structured to deliver a captivating page-turner.What continually amazes me with the Tarzan series is how ERB can introduce the reader to a new cast of supporting characters in every book, and within one page or less, I'm convinced of how believable they are.
No incarnation of Tarzan that has followed the novels has ever captured the rich visceral impression of the Lord of the Jungle as depicted here.
A great Tarzan novel. A very gritty jungle tale. Not a lot of weirdness. A strange cult of Leopard men is terrorizing the jungle. They make for an interesting threat and a great group of bad guys. The book does lose a bit of steam toward the end.
Tarzan, having lost his memory for the 100th time or so, knows no different so he joins forces with Orando in his quest for vengeance against the cult of the Leopard Men. This group of savages is drawn from many tribes and practices ritualistic cannibalism.Meanwhile, an ivory poacher (grrr), nicknamed Old Timer, gets caught up with a platinum blonde girl who has been stranded in the jungle by her safari.
The girl, whose name I forget, falls in love with Old Timer, whose name is Hi or something silly like that, and finds Jerry and everyone lives happily ever after - especially Nkima who gets to stop being Nyamwegi and gets Tarzan back.
Like here is another stupid white person on safari getting caught up in an argument with greedy and/or frightened natives being found by a previously unknown or dangerous tribe.There’s always several clueless groups running around getting into trouble.
Here we have Kali Bwana, a young white woman who sets off alone with just her native safari thinking she can handle anything.
Then there’s Orando, the son of the Tumbai’s chief who finds the trapped and confused Tarzan.
Probably both.Fave scenes: the Kali Bwana hunting & preparing the boar, Ubooga’s threat, Tarzan trapped in the tree, Ga-yat bringing help to Tarzan.
In a familiar Burroughs trope, Tarzan suffers amnesia yet again, this time believing himself to be s
Tarzan has been pinned under a tree that fell on him in a violent tropical storm and rendered him amnesiac. He is found and mistaken for a god by Orando of the Utengi, who calls him Muzimo and hopes that he will help the Utengi prevail against the Leopard men, a secret society drawn from many tribes and practices gruesome rites.
Wasn't bad but mostly seemed to be just a lot of running around, being captured, being rescued, being captured again, etc. Typical weak book in a long series syndrome. Tarzan was more of a secondary character in this one. Would not bother to read again.
More light reading
If you're reading the Tarzan books in order you'll be surprised to find this one doesn't feature two cities from a lost civilization engaged in endless war with each other, instead you get the cult of Leopard men a genuine historical African secret society and a tribe of Pygmies. Unfortunately Burroughs handles the African natives in a patronising racist manor, of course they're all cannibals intent on eating or raping the books white blonde heroine. Tarzan himself isn't in it much either and when he is he spends the first half with amnesia... again.
Tarzan has amnesia again and thinks he is the guardian spirit of a chieftan's son. In this book Tarzan fights the nasty leopard men, cannibal pygmies, and an evil witch-doctor who oppresses his tribe. There is a beautiful white woman to be saved, and an ivory poacher to be redeemed by the love of a good woman. Little Nkima the monkey accompanies Tarzan in his adventures, and the great apes make a cameo appearance. Not the best of the series, but it keeps the pages turning.
I have read all 24 of the Tarzan books. Read dates are from the mid 1970s through 1982. I thoroughly enjoyed all of the Tarzan books. They made a great escape from high school and college. I still have all 24 books and they are at the top of my book shelf. I thought it was pretty neat to find the actual covers listed on Goodreads and there are no barcodes on the books, plus the cover price ranged from $1.50-1.95 for each book.
Tarzan and the Leopard Men (Tarzan #18) by Edgar Rice Burroughs (Ballantine 1935) (Fiction). The cult of steel-clawed Leopard Men needs prisoners to serve as victims in their strange and deadly rituals. Poor Tarzan suffers from amnesia and thinks that he is a guardian spirit of the cult. My rating: 6.5/10, finished 1973.
Another concussion and case of amnesia for poor ol' Tarzan. Interesting that this time he was mistaken for a god. Lots of cases of mistaken identities, escape, recapture, near misses, wrong places at the wrong time--all the reasons you read Tarzan. The series reads like a jungle Keystone Cops. Great if you are only looking for escapism.
This book's alright. Good action and a decent story. But once again Tarzan gets an amnesia and forgets everything. How many times I came across this in his books now.. One thing I miss in these Tarzan books is his almost blind rage and brutality. He used to be much more brutal and merciless in old Tarzan books specially in his first 5 adventures
In this story, Tarzan is accompanied by Nkima, the monkey. He finds a lone white man in trouble and rescues him, helps said white man rescue a lone white woman, gets knocked out by a tree in a storm, and suffers from amnesia until he is knocked in the head a second time.
The villain of the day here were the Leopard Men. It has the fast pace but not a standout in the series.
So far it's a pot boiler.
Tarzan suffers a concussion early-on and goes through most of the book not knowing who he is. Little Nkima the monkey finally clues him in(with the aid of another conk in the skull.) A breezy read.
Tarzan saves the day against a group of savage Cannibals. There is also a love story weaved throughout the plot.
