https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2430.The_List
Totally not his best.
Not even close to his best.
Not that Martini's all that hot, but at least his other books aren't so trite.
I would have put it down but I had nothing else to read.
It's an intriguing idea that turns stupid, fast.
If the main character is so smart, how come she makes so many lame brained mistakes.
You know how you're watching a horror movie and you start getting mad at the main character because they don't turn the lights on, or call the cops, or do something that demonstrates even a modicum of intelligence?
Rarely do I have enough ambition to summarize the books I read, and I don’t like to give away the plot, but this time I’m making an exception. Why? Because this book sucked so bad! Do I need to give a disclaimer? Okay, I will. This is simply my opinion. Mr. Martini can certainly write a book better than me. Absolutely. No doubt. Okay?
3.75 Stars.This was my first Martini book and according to a lot of people this is “not one of Steve Martini’s best books.” If that is the case, I might have to start reading some more of his works because this was quite entertaining.
We start with a prologue of Abby Chandlis aboard a cargo ship hiding from two guys who are trying to kill her.
Abby is looking for her friend Morgan aboard the ship because she is afraid they are going to kill him also.
Overall a pretty decent, entertaining book that I would recommend to anyone especially people who are interested in writing and publishing books.
But every so often I forget to send back that Mystery Book Club slip and I get a surprise in the mail that leaves me reading late into the night.The List by Steve Martini was one of those "pleasant" surprises that I've since re-read many times and thrilled to each new reading.
The heroine of The List, Abby Chandlis, is a published writer who can't sell another book because her first effort never made the "list"--the New York Times Bestseller List.
You want to know why I think you should read this book, right?The List is a fast-paced thriller that is as suspenseful as it is action-filled.
It’s a great book for anyone who likes thrillers, mysteries, or wants to publish that best-selling novel.
She writes an excellent book but thinks that women authors, especially if they are over thirty and previously published, don't get the kind of attention and publicity push that young good-looking male writers do, especially if said young male is a first time author, a new discovery.
So Abby decides to hire a good looking actor, give him a pen name, and pass him off as the author of the book while holding the copyright herself.
Maybe it's unfair to count this book as read and rate it when I didn't come close to finishing it, but when I don't finish a book that means it's beyond bad.
Maybe Steve Martini is like him in one way, in that half his books are disgusting and the other half are brilliant, but I wouldn't give him the second chance to find out.
I notice another reviewer who gave it a low rating acknowledging that they couldn't write a book as good as this one.
I have no doubt I could write a better book.
I liked this story, but for all the wrong reasons.
The characters were not all that interesting.
A good story at least gets you to feel something.What I really liked were the book publishing insights.
Why books are marketed the way that they are was interesting.
I complain about too many books marketed as trilogies, but this makes me wonder if it was the author's idea or the publisher's.
Is a good looking, unknown male author going to command a better contract than a woman?
How are movie rights determined and who drives a good book character into a successful series.
When I began this book I had no idea or preconceptions to what the title was referring. However, it did not lake long before that became clear and book quickly developed into a quick, fast paced page turner. It is an entertaining book about the entertainment industry (media). The interesting thing about this book is that the plot is happening.....now!My second Steve Martini book....and I will be seeking more.
Before, I read the book , I thought it would be entertaining, the idea is somehow new,if it wasn't for the fast twist in the end, I would have given it 2,,, some details , I wasnt convinced by, the most important that not all successful book authors are beautiful,,, the word "ass" was repeated in nearly every page , also there was some sex content.
Blech. This was the first Steve Martini book I'd ever read, and it will also be the last. Poorly drawn characters, mocking cliched literary tropes while simultaneously writing them, and a ridiculous "twist" ending.Also, writing a novel about the publishing industry that laments the attention paid to specific real-world writers just makes you sound jealous, Mr. Martini.
This book was a total stinker. I found it in the garbage, where it belonged, with a handwritten message on a piece of notebook paper inside that said part of the book took place on St. Croix, which is where I am right now. For the hell of it, and for lack of better reading material, I gave it a shot. Oh, for shame.
About the “seductive world of entertainment.” A lawyer turned writer conspires to outwit the big guys. I found the first 95 pgs slow, and the plot confused by the many characters that I found difficult to separate. When he starts getting very graphic about horrific spouse abuse, I quit.
I liked this book at first. Then, I hated it and couldn't wait for it to end. Then I liked it again for another 50 pages. Finally, I hated it and was glad it ended.
A good story. The only complaint I have is the author refers to characters by both first or last names, sometimes in the same paragraph. It was difficult to keep them straight.
With this book, The List, set in the entertainment industry, it seemed like this had the possibility of being a great book.The book is about a female lawyer-author whose published works under her own name were all flops.
Finally, the extended chase scene at the end is spectacularly silly, almost comedic, except that the joke lasted w-a-y too long.In the middle of the book, there were sections where you got what seemed like realistic insights about book publishers, which was about the only part of the book that seemed believable.After reading Double Tap, I thought I was on to a reliable author.
Abby, an attorney, writes what she knows is going to be a blockbuster novel but chooses to publish under a nom de plume because she has learned that in the world of big time publishing, there are no second chances for an unknown writer.
This event appears to have no connection whatever to the rest of the story and in fact is just barely connected in the last twenty pages.The fatal blow came when I realized that I knew who the bad guy was about 2/3 of the way through the book.
A fabulous story of a woman attorney, Abby, who writes a blockbuster novel, under a male pseudonym, that garners serious interest from a publisher and from movie makers and a big-name actor.
When a friend who is living with her to escape an abusive ex-husband is killed, Abby blames the woman's ex-husband, but then he is found dead.
With the novel sold for a record-setting price, Abby and Jack, the man playing the role of the book's author, hide themselves in the Caribbean so that she can work on the sequel.
But problems continue to arise--and the body count climbs--even though Abby has a trusted attorney friend managing the money and business dealings for her.
First time I've read this author.
May have gotten a little carried away with the rating of 5 stars because I just finished the book but the ending was really action packed.
To be honest, there were parts of the book which dragged a bit.
Still, I plan to read others by the author.
The book is almost 20 years old and I found it in the back of my bookcase, all dusty and forlorn.
I've been trying to read at least one book from my "unread" bookcase for every newer digital read I finish.
Will probably read the first one in this series soon.
It been a while since I read this author and he doesn't disappoint. The epilogue set the pace for the book itself. The book tells the story of an author trying to publish a book which she succeeds at the it is followed with murder. Some people that are associated with the book are dying under unusual circumstances. There are a lot of twists and turns until the very end.
Weird plot line about authors and best seller lists. Not great, I couldn’t find an interest
Unfortunately this is the first time I put a book away without finishing it. It was definitely not my cup of tea. I wish I would have read some of the reviews prior to buying it.
A great read. A female author uses an alias and the rest is not pretty.
The List unearths the publishing industry's dirty secrets. Look out because the skeletons are jumping out the closet!
Fast, fun and furious!
Her stand-in, Jack Jermaine, wows and charms all, including Abby; yet Abby's long-time friend and personal attorney, Morgan Spencer, who is handling the copyrights and stand-in contracts, is concerned enough to spend most of the book digging up dirt on Jermaine.
By the end of the book, the pace is hectic, our brains are swimming with clues, and Abby dodges death several times over, leading to a very neat ending that we suspect will catch most readers quite by surprise.Our only gripe is that this story is a bit like an Indy 500 run mostly under a yellow flag.
Stephen CampbellEnglish 1-A, period 1Mrs. Kuehl12 October 2015 The book I read for this assignment is called The List by Steve Martini. I chose this book because I got it from my cousin. And I’ve always been too young to read it cause its so long and confusing like most adult books. I’ve had this book for 3 years and so excited to read this book. This book is about an author who is in his late thirties, he in very good shape, and based on what the woman in the story say about him, they think he’
And I’ve always been too young to read it cause its so long and confusing like most adult books.
He’s never made a very popular or successful book until he gives a story to a friend and his friend gives it to a publisher in New York and they proof read it and they say it’s the next big hit.
I rate this book a 3 out of 5 because it still an adult book so its kind of slow and boring and no action more most of the story.
I do recommend this book for the poeple that have lots of time to read and like slow books.
Tegen beter weten in beslist Abby dat Jack Jermaine de juiste persoon is om een succes te maken van haar roman.
Ze vermoedt niet dat ze daarmee een pact met de duivel sluit en een keten van angstaanjagende gebeurtenissen in gang zet...
NBD|Biblion recensie Uit marketingoverwegingen huurt een advocate een plezierig ogende man in om als schrijver op te treden van een door haarzelf geschreven roman.
Vanaf dat moment gaat er veel mis door de pogingen van een ander om het manuscript in handen te krijgen en door enkele moorden in haar kennissenkring.
Haar stand-in blijkt gelukkig bijzonder aantrekkelijk en bovendien wordt ze gesteund door een oud-collega-advocaat.
Възможно най-динамичен и овъртян трилър-сюжет и възможно най-слабото изпълнение като литература.
Книга, която четеш и се ядосваш на безумно плоските образи, на слабите диалози, на изсмуканите от пръстите любовни сцени и екшън-гонитби, на тоновете клишета, а в същото време ти се иска да стигнеш до развръзката, защото сюжетът е интересен, по дяволите!
Впрочем, ако изобщо в книгата има силна страна, то това е тя.
Ако готвачът беше качествен или поне имаше някакво по-осезателно чувство за хумор, можеше да се получи дори истинска пародия на рецептите за сготвяне на бестселър.
Но тая книга е като скелет без плът.
Good vacation bookWritten in the wake of the Milli Vanilli music scandal , Steve Martini's  The List  features an unsuccessful female author (Abby Chandlis) who has written a book that under a male pen name (Gable Cooper) in order to make the book more marketable. So far, no big deal. Lots of authors use pen names. Several female romance authors have used pen names to write detective books and thrillers. In this case, the author actually hires a person to portray himself as the real Gable Cooper
features an unsuccessful female author (Abby Chandlis) who has written a book that under a male pen name (Gable Cooper) in order to make the book more marketable.
Several female romance authors have used pen names to write detective books and thrillers.
In this case, the author actually hires a person to portray himself as the real Gable Cooper - not just in public appearances, but also in all negotiations with the agents, the publishers and Hollywood studios interested in turning the book into a movie.
The reason she goes through such elaborate steps is her belief that male authors, especially handsome, charming ones, are marketed much more aggressively.The problem comes in the man chosen to portray Gable Cooper.
Thriller - The title refers to the New York Times bestseller list, which Seattle lawyer and literary novelist Abby Chandlis hopes to climb with her novel.
She believes that her new book will get the recognition it deserves only if it's associated with a handsome male face.
Theresa's ex, a violent drunk, turns up underwater, while Abby's own ex, a weasely lawyer, comes sniffing, lured by the scent of Abby's money.
In the heat of success, Abby and Jack's business arrangement turns to romance, but there are facts Abby doesn't know about her new partnership that could get her killed.
