https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/26415.Existentialism_from_Dostoevsky_to_Sartre
دوستانِ گرانقدر، بارها دیده ام که بسیاری از دوستان در خواندنِ کتاب هایی که مربوط به فلسفهٔ <اگزیستانسیالیسم> یا <اصالتِ وجود> بوده است، به مشکل برخورده اند. لذا تصمیم گرفتم تا در این ریویو به جای نوشتنِ سخنان و نظراتِ فلاسفه و اندیشمندان در موردِ <اصالتِ وجود>، بطور کامل به این موضوع بپردازم که در کل هدفِ این فلاسفه چه بوده است... پس این ریویو را تا پایان بخوانید--------------------------------------------عزیزانم، فعالیت اصلیِ <اگزیستانسیالیسم> و یا همان <اصالتِ وجود&g
امّا اگر انسانها به خرافات و موهومات ایمان داشته باشند و اعتقاد داشته باشند که نیرویی خارجی در حالِ نظارتِ بر کارها و رفتارِ آنها و کنترل نمودنشان میباشد، دیگر <اگزیستانسیالیسم> هیچ معنایی نخواهد داشت و کارِ این فلاسفه بیهوده خواهد بود، چراکه این فلسفه میگوید که کشفِ زندگی و خویشتن، تنها با تکیه بر ارادهٔ آزاد، مسئولیت و انتخابِ شخصی امکان پذیر میباشد‎در زیر به برخی از اهداف و درونمایه هایِ مشترک در فلسفهٔ <اگزیستانسیالیسم> اشاره میکنم و توضیحاتی مختصر برایشان مینویسم---------------------------------------------‎فلاسفهٔ اصالتِ وجودی معتقدند که همهٔ انسانها دارای ارادهٔ آزاد هستند و لذا میتوانند دست به انتخاب بزنند.
How unfortunate to have forgotten the curator to that museum of ideas. I once was young. Concepts all too often were inchoate. Kaufmann directed my stumbling progress through these choppy waters. I had a long hooded green coat then. I walked around the university brooding -- largely for effect. My focus shifted from social justice to existential peril.I'd like to beat that guy's ass.What emerged was a lifelong appreciation of Hamlet. I'm now curious if further biases leaped upon me with my dazzled attentions elsewhere.
A kid from my old neighborhood let me borrow this book for a summer, and it changed my life. I watched I Heart Huckabees and got really drunk.
Most of the living ‘existentialists’ have repudiated this label, and a bewildered outsider might well conclude that the only thing they have in common is a marked aversion for each other.”Walter Kaufmann’s: Existentialism from Dostoevsky to Sartre is a collection of writings from writers and philosophers that Kaufmann thinks are ‘existentialists.’ I will focus my review on Kaufmann’s introductory essay, rather than the collected existentialist works herein, because (1) I think Kaufman’s essay is useful, short, and exceptionally well written and (2) I didn’t bother to read any of the collected works following Kaufman’s essay.If you’ve spent any time learning about ‘existentialism’ you’ll know that deciding who to call an existentialist is a passionate (if myopic and navel gazing) debate, even among the ‘canonical’ existentialists.
Sisyphus is a classic manifesto on how to create joy and self-perpetuation in a cruel world; Notes is a fictional memoir full of the deranged ramblings of a crazy fucker.
While it's not an easy task, (scholars have argued about the basic concepts of existentialism for years), a primer without a clear idea of what the subject matter is doesn't serve much use.Personally, I would have placed The Allegory of the Cave right after the introduction, because, between all of the authors in this anthology, it is a basic point of agreement.
Instead, Kaufmann seems to say "Pretty cool ideas, right?
As far as a I’m aware FD never tried to formulate his personal ideology in explicitly philosophical terms, but his books are bursting with all the things existentialists go crazy about anyway: humans' uncertainty in the face of pretty much everything, the importance of choice (and the impossibility of non-choice), the necessity of defining oneself through actions rather than words or labels.
I would not recommending getting into Existentialism, or probably any branch of philosophy or field of knowledge, without at least a brief primer.
Kaufmann has done an excellent job organizing, translating and presenting some of the most noteworthy literature that is often called "Existentialist." He makes a point not to define the term outright, but rather to illustrate some of the ideas and give a feel of the writing by showing some of the big names in their own (translated) words.
I think this is an excellent collection of writings, but not for someone totally new to the ideas and the styles.
You can always rely on Kaufmann for punchy introductions and his vast knowledge to make thematic selections. That it's existentialism is secondary - though I would query the current bizarre fashion for dismissing the term. As K points out, there was never a 'school', method or anything else, and the philosophers in this selections are widely different. The longest selection of Jaspers does a good job of isolating the similarities between Nietsche and Kierkegaard which are beyond their vast differences, and despite there being no possibility that either knew of the other's work.
This book isn't really the best way to introduce one to existentialism.
Don't get me wrong, there are some fantastic pieces of existential writing in here, particularly from Sartre and Camus (you can tell my biases, as they're going to get mentioned several more times).
Sartre and Camus are both high points and made the effort worthwhile if you're a completionist (if you're not, I think you can feel justified in picking and choosing what you want to read).Giving this book a score was really tricky.
Sartre and Camus made me feel that ultimately, my time was well spent.
OthersThe experience of the Other is the experience of another free subject who inhabits the same world as a person does.
AnxietyThe Existentialists describe anxiety as a negative feeling arising from the experience of human freedom and responsibility.
The negative feeling associated with responsibility and freedom comes from the fact that regularly we have to base decisions on very little knowledge of the conditions and the outcome.5.
AuthenticityAuthenticity is acting in complete freedom.
FacticityOne has to regard the facts of his/her life, however one should also be aware of the responsibility and freedom to act to change these facts.
The interpretations he operated under are not held by contemporary scholars, such as Marino, who himself is the compiler of a rival existential anthology.
Kaufmann is greatly important for his rehabilitation of Nietzsche in the English-speaking world, but apparently was unwilling to extend that generosity and depth of understanding to Kierkegaard.The major problem with the collection is the strange priority given to certain authors in terms of pages given each (Rilke, Kafka, and Camus are given short shrift, even if one disputes whether the former authors belong in this collection to begin with): Jaspers, Heidegger, and Sartre predominate.
“My philosophy is a philosophy of existence; I don’t even known what Existentialism is”, P.
Sartre"...man will only attain existence when he is what he purposes to be...."Sartre"..
...What they have in common is simply the fact that they believe that existence comes before essence –....
Man simply is.
Man is, indeed, a project which possesses a subjective life, instead of being a kind of moss, or a fungus or a cauliflower.
Before that projection of the self nothing exists; not even in the heaven of intelligence: man will only attain existence when he is what he purposes to be.
A very poor introduction to existentialism. Sadly. I hoped the book would sum up the whole existential movement, introducing the philosophy and it's proponents. The book fails to do so. The introduction is very basic and even fails to define existentialism properly. The excerpts from various existentialist writers, I found to be abrupt and I failed to pick the gist and point behind the writing. The excerpts start in the middle and take you no where. Each writer isn't introduced properly, and Kaufmann fails to link each writer with the other or differentiate their strand of existentialism. Overall, very disappointing.
I had to read this in college. It's an okay book, but it's more of a sampler than an actual anthology. I wouldn't read this unless you are taking a class in existentialism or you need a quick introduction.
Found this book on a bookshelf in high school. It may sound cheesy, but it changed my life.
A solid collection, but Kaufmann seems far too arrogant and clearly sets up these philosophers based on his own reading and interpretation of them. He does not understand Heidegger at all (as he made clear in From Shakespeare to Existentialism.You are better off just reading the philosopher's book as a whole, you always are. This is a good way to find out from a taste if you might like said philosopher's style or not. It does not, however, give you anywhere close to an "understanding" of the philosopher or their ideas.
Unfortunately I really got into existentialism around my freshman year of highschool. It is interresting to read about however. This book has the entire first part of Dostoevsky's Notes from Underground. This is hillariously funny yet you find the character so damned by his philosophy that you pity him. The rest of the book is informative for those curious about existentialism.
ah, the things you thought you understood in high school but really didn't. not from incapacity but from lack of living. this basically worth reading alone for the intro by kaufmann, better known as nietzsche's finest translator and expositor.
I read this book for a class, yet still read time to time. My favorite philosophy book that contains concise introduction major existentialist philosophers.
Again, I read most of this in two college philosophy courses. I think I braved through enough of it to mark it as "read."
He does great work for explaining his Philosophy and his section on Kierkegaard and Nietzsche, but when it came to his personal section on what he makes to be Encompassing, I could not entirely take it him.
It's not that he's a bad philosopher; rather, while he has the largest section of the book dedicated to him right behind Sartre, I still did not find it enough.
Bad-Faith, in this book translated as Self-Deception, is a great idea, his formulation of it lessens the impact.
The best thing that Sartre does is his short section on Marxism and Existentialism, in which he states that Kierkegaard's opposition to Hegel is synthesized in Marxism.
About one quarter of these essays, articles, stories, and academic papers are able to be read.
Yes, there are people who can understand the concepts which are introduced, rehashed, and then beat.
Re-beat.
Those people don't actually understand the concepts.
Instead, they are capable of regurgitating what they have read.
I suspect the philosopher-authors themselves were not able to understand the concepts they pretended to create.
The editor may have been reaching too far in order to fill his book with some of these authors.
And, lastly, Nietzsche: always intentionally confusing but sometimes fun to read anyway.
Okunmadan önce varoluşçuluk üzerine bir altyapı gerektiyor.
Bahsi geçen düşünür ve yazarları daha önce okumadıysanız ise bir şeyler öğrenecek olmakla birlikte birçok şey havada kalacaktır.
Söyleyeceği şeyden önce zemin oluşturmak gibi bir kaygı taşımadan, direkt kitabın orta yerinden konuşan, okurun zaten belli başlı noktaları bildiğini varsayan bir eser.
Çünkü her bölümde ele alınan düşünür bir önceki bölümlerde ele alınan düşünürler hakkında söylenenler üzerine inşa ediliyor.
Kitap hakkında şahsi olarak tek olumsuz eleştirim, hoşlanmadığım tek nokta ise Kafka, Camus, Rilke gibi yazarların en sonda tek bir bölüm altında küçücük bir yer işgal ettiklerini görmek oldu.
The high point, for me, being Dostoevsky and Sartre; I can take or leave Kierkegaard and, to be honest, I have never nor am I particularly interested in reading anything else by Jaspers.My largest complaint of this book is the introduction.
For an introduction to a subject, it contained an awful lot of references that a person just getting into modern philosophy wouldn't know.
It essentially negates the point of the book: if you don't know anything about Existentialism, you'll be left confused and frustrated, but if you're already familiar with it, you would've already read the works included here.
I took way too long to finish reading this so unfortunately I am drawing a blank when trying to recall the first few excerpts :(A handful of disjointed thoughts:- Truly excellent foreword.
When I read this book again, as I plan to do one day, I'll read the foreword in pieces; each philosopher's summary before each excerpt.
- Had never heard of Jaspers before this book but I did enjoy his discussion on reason and emotion.
Not sure why the book featured him so disproportionately though -- his section was considerably longer than anyone else's.
- Totally gave up trying to read Heidegger.
now there's a thought.
Varoluşculuk ile ilgili güzel bir kaynak. Karşılaştırmalı olarak. Zamanın akımlarını verirken, anglosakson bakış açısından da nasıl göründüğünü anlatıyor. Kierkegaard acımasızca kitabın tümünde eleştirilmiş, bunun yanında Kaufmann ın en okumaya değer gördüğü isim ise Sartre olarak görünüyor.
This un did heap good in minesown thinkmeats. Selections from an array of authors in the existentialist vein, a few of which this was my first exposure.
An easy read, and a good introduction to Existentialism in its literary and philosophical forms.
"We are left alone, without excuse. That is what I mean when I say that man is condemned to be free." - Jean-Paul Sartre
This book puts philosophers into perspective. I highly recommend it for those wanting a clearer understanding of the difference between philosophers and their views.
