https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/201138.The_Berenstain_Bears_and_Too_Much_TV
The Bears have become TV zombies.
This is pretty good and TV is addictive.
They should really run some AA meetings for TV addiction.
I can easily get sucked into TV world.The kids love the bears so this was a favorite in our house, although the kids weren’t crazy about the message.
The nephew is a TV zombie.
He will detach after awhile, but he loves TV and the Niece likes TV and she gets bored of it after a while.
I like Mama having the kids watch the stars come out.
The kids did not want to do that.A fun book from 1984.
Papa Bear wouldn't stop watching TV. At the end, he watched the fish jump and tv. It was very very very very very very funny!
Somewhere in this story is a load of painful irony for parents reading a book written three and a half decades ago for children, which is still very relevant today.
Video games (Fortnite for starters).
The addictiveness of video screens in any format has only increased since the 1980s.
And the battle for parents to keep their kids from turning into zombies is not only fiercer, but now they have to win the battle for themselves too.
Because it is not only kids that are becoming detached form society now, but adults as well.
Life-changing. Kill your television.
When the TV is onAll day without rest,Mama knows it's too muchAnd Mama Knows best.Mama decides that the family is watching too much TV and decides to have a week without TV.Papa Bear seems to have a problem with this and keeps trying to sneak in some TV.
My husband pointed out that Mama Bear shouldn't have imposed the no TV rule on Papa Bear unless he was willing to consent to it considering he's the head of the household.
At the very least, the "no TV" restriction should have been discussed between the two parents before confronting the cubs with it so the parents would have provided a united front for the children.
Trigger warning: you might feel a little convicted by how much you're using the TV as a babysitter.:) Seriously, when the kids were small we had PBS Kids on from when they went on the air until they went off.
Because the stuff the Bears did the week the TV was off requires, you know, time and interaction with the kids (cubs).
So yeah, turn off your TV and get out and do stuff!I love how Papa Bear had the worst time with this.
Yeah...we could have done some things better.
I wonder how the Berenstain Bears would confront social media today...
"Don't watch too much television."
I think there's a very good reason that this book series has spanned decades and maintained popularity.
It gives children the chance to think on their own and make their own choices for behaviors that carry over into their adult lives.
Many of these issues will be ones that will persist through their lives, just on different levels of course.I know I still have times when I watch a lot of television and start to wonder if I'm becoming a couch potato.
Books like these at least make me *think* about it now as an adult.
*Review also posted to Amazon
A great idea! No TV for an entire week. The Bear family watches way too much TV and our household is very similar to theirs in this regard; now we just have to convince "Papa Bear" to go without for a whole week. Hmmmm... In any case, it's a great reminder of all the many things you can do without the boob tube on.
The great thing about all the Berenstain Bear books is that they are topical and timely, no matter what age your child is when reading them. Too much TV is something my wife and I have both relayed to our little one lately, so once she saw the effects it had on Sister and Brother bear, it made it a little easier for us to deliver the message. It also didn't hurt to have the weather turn nice.
I read a ton of these books when I was little, but this is the one I remember most because, well, I watched too my TV and my parents thought this would get through to me. It didn't, but I did love those bears!
this book is about when brother bear and sister bear and papa bear are waching to much t.v. then mama bear gets really mad at them because they are waching when they get home from school. then it goes to far. what will mama bear do?
I love all the Berentstain Bears books but this one in particular because Mama Bear thinks the "Cubs" are watching too much TV and so they have to read instead. What a great project to do with our students. Have them turn off the TV of a whole week have them document what they do instead-like read!
I liked this book too and it should be read to or with kids so they can learn to do more than watch TV!!
These books are great for families trying to teach children valuable life lessons, this book helps teach kids why watching too much tv is bad.
Great one for those who are trying to cut back on watching t.v. - for kids
The Berenstain Bears are classic books for childhood, even the more modern ones such as TOO MUCH TV. This is a good message for young children from characters they already love and respect.
my mom got this one to teach my brother and i a lesson i think. don't think it worked as i loooooove tv. even when i read....i watch tv.....
My kids love all the Berenstain Bears books, and they don't realize there are important lessons in each story.
My granddaughters loved this and are thinking up activities to do instead of watching TV after school.They are five years old and were tickeled to see that Pappa could't watch TV either.
Good
Another I recall with much affection. Makes me realise even more how absolutely awesome my mother is too, for reading me so many books as a littlie! ♥ Could not have asked for a better mum.
It's probably for the best that this book was written back in the simpler days of 1984; I think Mama's head would have exploded with the advent of cable, DVRs and streaming. Although Mama probably should have consulted with Papa before instituting an edict of no TV for a week, it's a perfectly good idea and allows for the family to explore other enjoyable screen-free activities. I like that Brother pointedly asks Mama what her issue is with TV as well as her reasonable response to explain her stance which allows for compromise.
The next day when the cubs and Papa attempt to turn on the TV, Mama stops them and announces that the family has been watching entirely too much TV lately and that for the next week, the TV was going to be shut off.
Papa stood behind Mama and told the cubs there is much more to life than TV, like homework, fresh air and sunshine but when he tried to turn on his sports show, Mama let him know he was grounded from TV as well.
The next day we are at someones house and Vidya happens to find the book there...
Why don't we read it?" What can I say?
So I read it and surprisingly it wasn't that bad.
However, I did not like being forced to read the book by a bunch of kids.
So, if you happen to see any of these children out on the streets of Delhi, feel free to torture them (with books of course) as you will.
When Mama realizes all the cubs and Papa are doing is watching TV she decides to take it away for a week.
Throughout the week the cubs and Papa learn different things that they are able to do without the TV.
I like this book because children are forgetting all of the things they can do outside instead of sitting inside and watching TV or playing video games.
This is a book that would be the preference of the parent and not necessarily one that would be appropriate to teach in school.
This one is about Mama bear trying to get the rest of her family to cut down on their TV watching time.
She encourages them to go outside and play or pick up hobbies that don't involve sitting inside and staring at something.
During this week Papa, Brother and Sister Bear all start doing other activities.
They go outside and explore the forest, start doing arts and crafts and play with woodland animals.
By the time the week ends the family isn't even interested in the TV anymore as they have found more fun things to do.
In this Berenstain Bears story, Mama Bear is worried that the cubs are watching too much television as the cubs spend their entire Saturday sitting in front of the TV.
Everyone is worried about becoming too bored, so Mama Bear takes them to the mall where Sister gets a knitting set and Brother gets a rubrics cube.
After a week without TV the cubs say that they are going to spend the entire day in front of the TV but after long Sister Bear goes to knit and Brother Bear tries to solve his rubrics cube.
The cubs are watching too much TV so Mama confiscates it and sends them outside to play.
The kids have so much fun outside that when Mama lets them have the TV back, they do not even want to watch it.
This is a wishful solution because most kids would not enjoy playing outside so much that they would not watch television, but the concept it there.
I think this book teaches parents to show their kids fun and more active alternatives to television.
I think this book is an important lesson and becoming more and more relevant with today’s youth.
I think this book teaches a valuable lesson in time management for children who are watching too much television.
Especially in today's time with everything being electronic its hard to get children "back to the basics" with just playing outside.
Reading this book has provided some insight on how to educate children to staying healthy mentally and physically by engaging in outside activities rather than watching TV.
Challenging the children to time themselves by timing the amount of TV watched at home or encouraging other activities such as outside play, reading and family time.
