https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/799401.Pilates_Return_to_Life_Through_Contrology
If your instructor isn't classically trained (which takes up to 2 years), RUN!Those of us who went through the Pilates Studio training spent up to 2 years of study, auditions, and internship just to get our original certifications.
From then on, Stott, Winsor, and other "Pilates" companies popped up, adding exercises that had nothing to do with Contrology.
Also, gyms started certifying "Pilates instructors" over weekend seminars.
Many "instructors" have never even used the Gratz equipment which is a necessary component to the Pilates mat (mat first, then equipment).
Many of the principles introduced then have been brought forward into how we practice today, while others were slightly changed, refined, or modernized as we learned more about the various systems of the body.The style of writing immediately struck me as old fashioned as it was originally written in 1945.
Perhaps the meaning was different back then, but in today's terminology, locking your knees often leads to hyperextension in many people so we don't really use that term anymore.Going forward, I'd like to see more men practicing Pilates.
If you’re a Pilates wonk, you’ll love this book. If not, you’ll find the writing a bit stilted and dictatorial. The photos for the exercises are good for review if you know the mat repertoire already.
While some of the man's ideas were clearly on the mark, some... weren't. Cherrypicking the gems & trashing the rest.
I really just read the first 24 pages, which is the actual writing part of the book.
It really explains in very plain terms why Pilates is an important form of exercise, and really reaffirmed the fact that it is something I really, really enjoy doing.
I have looked through the exercises a couple times since I got the book from the library, and I know many of them so I saw no reason to read through it again, but I would LOVE to own this book as a reference.
Even though I'm sure there are much more modern Pilates instructional books out there, this is the original and well worth the read!
A tiny and precise book that epitomizes Pilates itself: controlled, fluid, tight, and straightforward. In less than 100 pages, Joseph Pilates lays out the philosophy behind "contrology" (his original name for the Pilates exercises) and then demonstrates them with short and direct instructions in this manual from 1945. Eat right, exercise, learn how to breathe right, balance your mind and body, and you'll live a long and healthy life!
As a Pilates Instructor, I find the work of Joseph Pilates to be astute and important. In this tiny book he talks about the schism between society and physical fitness and introduces some of his basic Mat repetoire. If you enjoy Pilates and want to go a little deeper this book is for you. If you have been interested in why MindBody health is such a phenomena, this book is for you as well.
I can not say I agree with Joe on all his theories (don't tell the pilates police) but it does offer a historic perspective of pilates, and highlights that it's always good to read more than one book on a particular topic area. Classic quote:"Wherever possible, wear "shorts" or sunsuits outside...."
Interesting man with some interesting ideas! A visionary, indeed.
Not a book for everyone. It has great pictures illustrating some of the moves, but the text portion regarding the philosophy behind contrology isn't for the lay person.
return to life, what does that mean? read it!
Absolute must for anyone who wants to learn the foundation of the Pilates method.
All I can say is that Joseph Pilates was ahead of his time, in my opinion.How fortunate that he shared his experience in a way that would benefit others.
Very good. Enlightening as to the master behind the method.I think this book should be standard issue to anyone undertaking Pilates training.
My bible :)
Very interesting and informative.helped me a lot while studying for my pilates qualification
