https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/767955.Roman_Fever_and_Other_Stories
I don't even remember what we read.A colleague stopped by my desk at school last week, and said his wife put Roman Fever into his hands and told him to read it.He was amazed:1) that he had never heard of this jewel and,2) at the cruelty of women.He piqued my interest.I checked our catalog and we had it, so I threw it into my bag.
Perhaps Edith Wharton needs to be read at different stages of life, through different lenses of experience, to be truly appreciated.What a joy, to be taken so totally by surprise by a story.
I enjoyed this collection of what are considered some of Edith Wharton's finest short stories so much that I read it all over again, right after reading it the first time.Some of the themes are familiar, such as people's sense of identity and social acceptance in upper-class society, but there is a large range of storylines, many of which deal with marital relationships and their various endings.
An outstanding collection of writing that I believe will stay with the reader for a long time after the last page is turned.
There is nothing much you can say about a classic.
Edith Wharton is undeniably one of the best American writers and this book of short stories is another proof of it.
It is a mark of a true talent to be able in a matter of 20-25 pages to reveal both deep nature of characters and expose society follies.
Each story is a masterpiece which leaves you with a deeper understanding of suffocating restrictions of 19th century America and complexities of human nature.
This book is a must read for anyone who appreciates quality literature.Reading challenge: #7
A GR glitch and my review vanished. Xingu? So I'll reveal Xingu is a river in Brazil, not a philosophy, language, ritual or something best whispered about.
The short story Roman Fever first appeared in 1934 – although this particular collection wasn’t published until 1964 these stories come from across the long period in which Edith Wharton was writing.
Two middle ages matrons; Grace Ansley and Alida Slade, are in Rome with their daughters, the two women don’t move from their position on a terrace overlooking the city they each have reason to remember from their youth.“ ‘I always used to think’ Mrs Slade continued, ‘that our mothers had a much more difficult job than our grandmothers.
This made me love Wharton all over again after a couple of disappointing novels. The standout here is "Xingu", which is a scathingly brilliant, utterly wonderful take-down of pretentious society matrons whose literary club is giving a luncheon for a famous author. I also especially liked "After Holbein", a rather creepy tale of two elderly socialites, and "The Angel at the Grave", about a woman who has devoted her whole life to the care of her dead grandfather's house, papers, and reputation.
Roman Fever and Other Stories includes eight intriguing, surprising and brilliant short stories. They describe the society of the time they were written, the changes that were going on, in a real but comical way. The stories are just the right length, they start kind of suddenly, without any introductions, so it takes a few pages to understand whats happening and they end a bit suddenly as well, the reader has to figure out the solution on her/his own, which I quite liked. Wharton offered me exa
The stories are just the right length, they start kind of suddenly, without any introductions, so it takes a few pages to understand what´s happening and they end a bit suddenly as well, the reader has to figure out the solution on her/his own, which I quite liked.
I can´t wait to see what she can accomplish in a longer novel form.If I´d have to choose my favorite stories they´d be Roman Fever, The Other Two, The Angel at the Grave and After Albein.
So this truly was a fantastic way to get acquainted with a new author, one that I´ll most certainly read more from in the future!
****1/2.Eight of Ms. Wharton’s stories have been collected and presented in this book.
They are all excellent examples of her skill at this form of fiction.
All of her stories provide some sort of twist at the end; many of them seem to be in the form of ghost stories.
I felt that the best examples of her art in this form was directly related to the length of the piece: the shorter the story, the better the quality.
If you have not read Ms. Wharton’s short stories before – and she was prolific in the genre – this volume is a great place to start.
Though I can be impartial to short stories, when I read this for class, I fell in love with it.
I think I connect with it most because I have a childhood friend who always seemed to have everything, every opportunity, everything handed to her, and she walked all over her friends, including me, taking every advantage that came her way.
So, when I read this story, I couldn't help but laugh, thinking Mrs. Ansley had the perfect revenge.
I have no interest in seeking my own vengeance, but it was almost like just reading the story, and making the connection that I did, was my own little way of finally getting the upper hand.
After the blood and guts of  Blood Meridian , I needed to add a little civilization back into my reading life - and nobody does over-civilization like Edith Wharton. Whether they meet the challenge by laughing, crying, or overdosing on exhaustion and sleeping pills, her characters are beset on all sides by the constrictions of unimaginative convention - a force with which McCarthy's cowboys are entirely untroubled.I have a mixed history with Wharton; I found The House of Mirth overwrought, and w
As a character in the final story implies, the only rational cure for over-civilization is to promote a rich inner life, and these relics of Old New York certainly don't have it:We're all imprisoned, of course - all of us middling people, who don't carry our freedom in our brains.There was another story in the collection that interested me for more personal reasons, although it was in Wharton's dramatic, rather than satirical, mode: "Souls Belated" tells of a woman, recently divorced, who wants to continue living with her lover unmarried, rather than attempt to rejoin their former stuffy, hypocritical society by accepting the state sanction of marriage a second time.
Another solid selection by Edith Wharton.Of the 8, I had previously read 3 in another collection.The title entry, Roman Fever, appears to be the overwhelming favorite. A story of two widows, also lifelong friends, on a balcony in Rome, talking about their two daughters, and their own young lives in Rome.I found it interesting how so many readers were shocked by the ending.After Holbein took some interesting twists and turns before settling into a very apt ending.And in The Angel at the Grave, the triumph of a life not wasted.
The lead into the story sets an uneasy tone of distance between the two women.
As the reader gets more into the story, the author again sets the distance between the two women, “perhaps we didn’t know much more about each other.” When Mrs. Ansley says this to Mrs. Slade, it conveys to the reader that Mrs. Ansley is hiding something from her companion.
She also spends a lot of time being jealous of Mrs. Ansley’s daughter because she is more exciting then her own daughter.
We learn that the two women after getting married around the same time also lived in New York across the street from one another.
If you truly want a taste of Wharton and can only read one story from this collection, read The Angel at the Grave.
If you must take something from Wharton (and you must!) to keep in your pocket through your endeavors, my favorite piece was this jewel from The Angel at the Grave: "Literature's like a big railway-station now, you know: there's a train starting every minute.
Roman Fever and Other Stories is the epitome of the zest of Wharton, with a flavorful moxie that gives it a unique edge in the enormous sphere of literature.
Woo hoo! Roman Fever is a saucy, saucy storyI like all the knittingwho knew knitting could be so passionate?...http://www.dailymail.co.uk/video/fema...One would think that performance artist/craftivist Casey Jenkins'vaginal knitting project would be the most passionate instance of knitting there is.But one would be WRONG WRONG WRONGThe goings-on around Casey Jenkins' vulva are as milquetoast as they comebut Roman Fever?"Mrs. Ansley's hands lay inert across her needles. She looked straight out at the great accumulated wreckage of passion and splendor at her feet."her knitting is more crimson from the get gothan Casey Jenkins' ever was.
I'm disappointed, these stories don't resonate or stay with me. Did I not notice before that Wharton is a bit mean-spirited and cynical, and certainly about marriage? Her own was strange as I learned at The Mount last summer!But thankfully after discussing the stories with my book club this week, I have a better handle on them and on Wharton's skill and intentions.
Wharton's writing is so sharp and modern seeming if you changed the setting and period details much of it would work today with it's brilliant psychological observations. I particularly loved the story Xochi. Like any book of stories I didn't love every one but many were terrific.
"Roman Fever" is one of my most favorite short stories. I love the zing at the end.
Excellent short story.
Great story!! What a surprising ending!! I love how the narrative evolves, how deep the resentments run. Two old friends, two daughters, the past haunting them!
Not up to her usual standard, but solid throughout with a couple of real gems.
I love wonderful short stories!!!!
Great wit!!
The first tale is wonderful and worth getting the book but after that the stories felt too dated and upper class.
This collection is bookended by two standouts, the delightful one-up(wo)maintop of Roman Fever (so short it's almost flash fiction) and the curious gradations of social stigma and sacrifice in Austres Temps...Without diminishing the pleasure gleaned from the parody and satire of After Holbein and Xingu.Must every Wharton book of short stories I read entail 5 stars? If they're as good this one, then YES.
Wynona Rider and Michele Pfeiffer were also in the movie, in leading roles.Both The Age of Innocence and The House of Mirth have been included on the Modern Library List of best 100 books of the 20th century.Such a fabulous writer can only write great stories we can assume.Roman Fever develops slowly.We have two old “friends” in the main roles: Mrs. Horace Ansley and Mrs. Delphin Slade.Back in the old days, women were called by their husbands’ names.
Some are sly and humorous, like "Roman Fever" and "Xingu," which both make fools of people who think they know more than they do.What I really love about Wharton, though—and The Age of Innocence, arguably her most famous work, is a great example of this, too—is the way she lays out her characters' conflicts quite transparently, all so readers can admire how inevitably people misunderstand and unwittingly abuse one another.
You want to take her characters by the shoulders and translate for them.I especially love how she dissects marriage, the roles that couples play for each other and how restrictive they can be.
I really liked each of the stories in this collection. I have previously read The House of Mirth and The Age of Innocence, and the stories in Roman Fever seemed just as enticing as those novels. Sometimes I thought I would have liked a novel-length version of certain of these stories, but I also appreciated them for their compactness. I felt these stories were very relatable to modern life in their themes--holding on to old grudges, looking back on one's life from middle age, reflecting on the changing mores of society, aging out of popularity and into senility, etc.
The description "It was amazing," perfectly encompasses how I feel about this collection of short stories by Edith Wharton. As always, Wharton writes in a way that undermines the societal constrictions of her class. She is observant, cutting and very funny. There is always a bit of sadness in each story. Nostalgia, melancholy, a feeling of being trapped- but Wharton doesn't preach. She shows by example the loneliness of a couple running away, the malice of a frenemy and the resignation and overall heart of a father. I thoroughly enjoyed these stories and highly recommend them!
While I remain not a big fan of short stories in general, Edith Wharton is always good. I've read at least a couple of these before (Roman Fever, After Holbein) but the rest were new. Xingu: HA HA HA HA. All the divorce stories: it's interesting how none of the divorced women were really judged as morally reprehensible, but instead as Not Respectable. Obviously acceptance into NYC/upper-class society was the big deal at the time, but it's still a striking contrast to all the fire & brimstone that tend to get thrown around in the US in general.
The title story is now in my top 5 all-time favorite short stories, joining Lamb to the Slaughter, The Swimmer, and pretty much anything by Dorothy Parker. I haven't read Edith Wharton in several years and had forgotten the true pleasure of reading her razor-sharp characterizations and being constantly amazed at her ability to choose just the right word, in just the right place, in each and every sentence she writes. I feel an Edith Wharton binge coming on (as well as another visit to her gorgeous house in Lenox).
