https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/31099.Babyville
3.5 starsMy experience with Jane Green novels in the past has varied from really enjoyed to a meh type feeling.
That probably helped and for the most part this was a decent read and I enjoyed the female characters.
But to be honest I absolutely hated the last few pages and how one of the character's story line was wrapped up.
Like I wanted to throw the book at the wall type hate because it played into an annoying book, tv, and movie trope that I can't stand.
Overall though this was a good read but not really anything spectacular.
Oh my. Having a hard time with this one-- I'm about 115 pages in and its pretty insipid; total SNORESVILLE and predictable... I might have to give up soon... I have no idea how someone could give this anything more than 2 stars... I keep thinking it might pick up or get interesting or better...yeah, if I could give it 1.5 stars I would, but overall, yeasch. half star would go for the humiliation at the end of the book heard over the baby monitor-- wow, that was terrible. Other than that, ugh.
This is another that I already have forgotten what happened. It's a good "nothing else to read" book that won't disappoint with lower expectations.The problem with Jane Green novels is that after reading one, you've kind of "read them all". HOWEVER, I still enjoy them. They are easy and go so fast. They make great vacation books.
This was not my favorite Jane Green novel.
It was the story of three women - Julia, Maeve and Sam. All three women are struggling with their relationships and - more truthfully - their identity.
I get that we - as women - struggle with who we are and how to define ourselves apart from our "better half" and our ability to procreate.
I guess I struggled with taking it seriously with this book - which is probably why I didn't like it too much.
I had little empathy for any of the characters.
I didn't feel the writing got me there.
However, the writing was SO awful that I could not finish the book.
The characters' careers are in line with most chick lit (media, business, law), but nothing interesting was done with their personalities.
Once in a while there was a bit of witty dialogue, but dialogue itself was sparse and scattered through paragraphs of just telling the reader about the characters without showing.
It is not a page turner, I did not feel attached to the characters, and I did not feel engaged with the story, most because of the writing and the lack of developing what could have been a fun topic.
I tried to force myself to finish this book after reading the "Julia" segment.
As the mother of two young children, I had looked forward to some light summer reading about women going through the same phase of life.
However, these women are nothing like me or any of the many thirty-something women and mothers that I know.
For example, how many women are DESPERATE to get pregnant, and then dash off to New York, forget their long term relationship and party like they're fresh out of college?
Please.[return][return]Finally, the writing in this book is so pedestrian.
I loved Jemima J, and thought Mr. Maybe was so-so. I was prepared to go either way with this one, and I did enjoy it quite a bit. I thought the 3 perspectives in the novel were interesting, and I took a particular liking to Maeve. Green did a great job of weaving all the stories together. A fun, light read!
This book is about three women in their thirties, Julia, Maeve, and Sam. Julia is a producer with a live in boyfriend who is "trapped" in a boring relationship.
Like so many people I know in real life, she realizes deep down that she is not happy, but after investing 4 years in a relationship she is determined to make it work.
Julia, like so many people in real life, doesn't know how to make herself happy and when her boyfriend Mark does not make her happy, she decides that she needs a baby.
Nonetheless, I know several women like Julia so it is realistic.
Quite possibly one of the worst books I ever read. It makes women look flightly and indecisive without really addressing serious issues the characters face in a way that is appropriate to their problems. Also, if you are even remotely thinking of having a baby, don't read this book! It makes having kids sound like a death sentence!
Itu yang terjadi sama beberapa buku yang udah mulai gue baca dari berbulan-bulan lalu tapi sampe sekarang masih aja belom kelar.
Lanjutin bacanya entar aja kapan-kapan hiahahaha.Tapi novel ini salah satu yang selamat dari perasaan sudden turn off.
*packing*Alasan lain kenapa gue suka banget sama buku ini adalah karena perbedaan sudut pandang pencerita untuk setiap tokoh yang berbeda.
*wah spoiler*Dan semua renungan setelah membaca buku ini ditutup oleh percakapan singkat sebelum tidur."I think I'm tired being lonely.""Lo tau Far, daripada kayak gue.
Gue lega, Far. Lega udah putus dari dia."Mungkin memang itu jawabannya.
One chick lit book is very much like another.
This is the story of 3 women - Julia, Sam and Maeve(seriously, whose called Maeve nowdays?).
Jane tells the story in three sections, one at a time which doesn't always seem to work.
I really wanted to see Julia's reaction to Mark getting Maeve pregnant but we never do.
Once Jane is done with Julia's bit, she only come's back into it to talk on the phone.
Ha any noticed that in most chick-lit books.
Overall this was a standard chick-lit book, not Jane's best but still worth a read.
I also really wanted to shake some of the main characters in places.This book has three main characters who know each other and it tells the stories of each.
Julia, who is desperately trying to have a baby with a man she knows is not right for her.
Maeve, who has gotten pregnant after a one night stand and doesn’t want to keep the baby but the man does.
And Sam, who has had her first baby thinking she will be the perfect mother but didn’t realise the toll it would take on her marriage.Julia really frustrated me throughout her story and I just wanted her to get a grip.
Julia, perempuan yang terobsesi punya bayi, tapi saat ia cuti kantor ia meyakini sebuah kebenaran yang selama ini tidak berani ia akui.
Bayi kemudian menjadi topik sentral yang mendominasi pikiran tokoh-tokoh perempuan dan menjungkirbalikkan kehidupannya.
Dilihat dari kajian antar budaya, tentu saja pemikiran tokoh-tokoh perempuan moderen tentang bayi ini sangat berbeda dengan budaya yang tertanam di pemikiran perempuan-perempuan Indonesia, mayoritas.
Maeve yang mengandung anak Mark, ia tidak menganggap Mark adalah Ayahnya, tapi hanya laki-laki yang menghamilinya.
Punya bayi tidak menjadi alasan untuk seorang perempuan mengejar laki-laki yang menghamilinya dan minta dinikahi.
Lebih dalam, menarik juga dilihat dari studi gender ketika perempuan menjadi sangat obsesif terhadap tubuhnya.
Menganggap hadirnya seorang anak akan menjadi solusi atas hubungannya yang semakin hambar dengan Mark (mereka blm nikah, tp tinggal bersama).
Situasi makin memburuk ketika Julia mengungkapkan kekecewaannya, seolah Mark lah yang tdk bisa punya anak (Julia sdh pernah hamil dan menggugurkan kandungannya).
Julia akhirnya pergi ke New York bersama Bella, merasa lega krn tdk lagi bersama Mark, bahkan tdk lagi terobsesi untuk punya anak.Lalu ada Maeve, yang menggantikan posisi Julia di kantor ketika Julia pergi ke New York.
Dia tergila2 pada George, tp melupakan dirinya sendiri dan Chris suaminya.
Maeve menjadi teman Sam dan hidup berbahagia dengan Mark dan Poppy, putri mereka.
Being early on in my pregnancy when reading it (4 months) I was able to relate with most of the characters & loved their growth.
Even when some of the characters were doing not-so-happy things, you could understand where they were coming from (blinders on to relationship issues, denial of postpartum depression, etc.) and forgive them.
It was scenes like this one that really made this book relatable (at least for me).
Julia wants a baby desperately and is unable to conceive.
She focuses so hard on becoming pregnant to the point that she drives her boyfriend away.
Maeve almost breaks out in a rash at the thought of being a mother.
At first, she tries to convince herself that she couldn't possibly be pregnant and tries to ignore the whole thing.
Samantha wants the perfect life of wife and mother.
The book switches back and forth among these three main characters.
Jane Green has done an amazing job of knitting these characters together and writing a fabulous novel.
It's sort of weird to think about a 24 year old single woman who doesn't want kinds rereading a book called Babyville but alas....
that was my life.I went on a bit of a chick lit binge at the end of November.
I read two Sophie Kinsella books and then I decided I wanted to read one of my old favorites so I did.
Sam is a married woman going through a tough time after her first baby is born.It's just a fun book reading about these different women and how their lives intersect.
If you're a fan of chick lit, I'd at least check this one out at the library.
What could have been an interesting look at the topic was spoiled by three of the most unlikeable main characters I have ever encountered in a fictional book, as well as a completely, pat, happy ending undeserved by the characters.
All three women were completely selfish and self absorbed, and it's next to immpossible to enjoy a book when you hate the characters in it.
The only thing that made this book slightly entertaining was towards the end of the book one of the women got her comeuppance in a completely humiliating (though well deserved) way, and those 2 pages were highly enjoyable in an otherwise completely wretched book.

The story is split into thirds, three different women's stories, although all three are interconnected.
To put it bluntly, I hated the first story.
I found Julia's character so self-centered it was almost intolerable.
But then I really enjoyed the second story and really connected with Maeve's journey.
Finally, the third story, Sam's, I went back and forth on.
I also wasn't a huge fan of Sam's, although I was more sympathetic towards her than I was Julia.
But I liked how all of the characters and stories kind of came together in Sam's story and I liked that it had a nicely wrapped up ending.
I have no one to blame but myself for reading this. I knew it would be 1 star when I bought it. I knew it on page 10, 20, 30 and so on. I've read a past Jane Green and the best I can say is that she is consistent with her 1 star writing. I'd like to find some way to soften this review. Give it up as a brainless summer read, but really...don't do it. There are just so many better "bad" summer books out there.
This rating/review is based on getting to about page 60 of this book. I couldn't read past that. I found the storyline to be not all that interesting. Hardly any of the main characters were likable people. And it was coarse and vulgar. After 60 pages, I knew I couldn't read another couple of hundred pages of this. Disappointing chick lit!
Surprisingly goodHits super close to home (especially the third part). Funny and charming and actually well-written. The characters feel human, with all the foibles and uncertainties of real people, ones I could be friends with being a career woman in my thirties.
When i read this book i just couldn't put it down i wanted to know what was going to happen next for the characters in the book. I love the fact that each of the three main women in the book are concentrated on with there own little mini books in the book...
Really liked it. Very realistic about relationships, babies and what sometimes goes on in womens heads. Has some really nice twists wrapped in there as well. I am really glad I read it and I would recommend it to any female friends.
I like Jane green because most of her books read like a more dramatic long episode of Friends with a sprinkle of Bridget Jones. This was the first jg book I read in a few years, and it was good to be back in the land of teacups and tidy endings.
I thought this was ok, I really hope and pray that I never have to deal with the stress with having a baby, it is scary how stressful it can be and how it can sometimes destroy a relationship.
I've enjoyed a good Jane Green book now and again, and this one was fine, but not something I'd say, "ooh, you don't want to miss this!" Fairly predictable with lots of whiny women in it.
Not my favourite jane green book sadly.
Great easy read
