https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6101718-the-magicians
This book has been hard-pedaled as an adult Harry Potter and it is-but with a soulless little git like Draco Malfoy as the main protagonist.
This is a cold and sterile book for people who think themselves too sophisticated for genre fiction, a sub-section of the reading public that, I suspect, includes the author.To be fair there are certain things Grossman does well.
But in Grossman’s hands it is just one more nail in the coffin, taking an eminently worthwhile premise(adult Harry Potter, twisted Narnia) and magically transforming it through bad craft into utter shit.
I know this is a thing us bibliophiles really shouldn't say EVER, but: I think the show is way better.Don't hurt me.When I started watching the SYFY version of The Magicians and actually really liked it, I made a quick mental note to go back and read this book first before I got too far into it.
In this case, though, the book makes the story more boring, the characters downright insufferable, and it contains less of an emotional pull.I've heard others pulling up comparisons to Harry Potter and The Chronicles of Narnia, and I can see the obvious influence of both - a boarding school for magicians and doorways to a secret world - but The Magicians lacks the magical spark of either.
'You can't just decide to be happy.''No, you can't. But you can sure as hell decide to be miserable. Is that what you want?' The answer to this, as far as Quentin Coldwater is concerned, is a resounding 'YES!' At any stage of his life. He makes Holden Caulfield look like a bundle of sunshine. He makes Charlie Brown resemble an embodiment of optimism and positivity. Eeyore the Donkey is brimming with life force compared to our perpetually unhappy hero. '...You couldn't have everything. Or at lea
Actually, the aura of overly disillusioned ennui-infused pseudo-sophistication in the faux-adult way (the way that tends to overstate almost explicitly that it's SO NOT Harry Potter and the like) permeates this entire book, getting in the way of pacing, character development and ultimately many readers' enjoyment.
As Quentin mechanically stumbles through his four years of quasi-British education in the self-pitying perpetually drunken haze, the plot stammers all over the place, never picking up a consistent pace, never leading to the reader actually caring about what happens to this set of miserable characters.
If you will, for just one second, look at your life and see how perfect it is. Stop looking for the next secret door that is going to lead you to your real life. Stop waiting. This is it: there’s nothing else. It’s here, and you’d better decide to enjoy it or you’re going to be miserable wherever you go, for the rest of your life, forever.”“You can’t just decide to be happy.”“No, you can’t. But you can sure as hell decide to be miserable. Is that what you want? Do you want to be the asshole who
Brakebills is like Harry Potter for assholes, and to that, I say bravo because that's a fucking fantastic thing.
But a nice, quiet life where one doesn't want to get ahead, where one doesn't feel the need to stand up for one's self is not for everyone.
This ain't your British boarding school.The main character in this book is a brilliant kid who stumbles (literally) into the Magical school of Brakebills.
Yeah!The characters in this book do not come from all walks of life.
It's not wrong to want to be the best.The world is not a magical place.
The story of a quasi-sociopathic high school cretin who mouth-breathes his way into an exclusive fantasy club of anhedonic wizards - replete with bad writing and worse story-telling. Enjoy.
Except most of the adventures are fairly mundane, with a few exceptions sprinkled here and there.Then pretend at the very end of said book, they all took a trip to a warped version of Narnia...with mixed results.Now, if you're the type of reader who absolutely has to like the main character, or feels like you need to at the very least sympathize with them?Then you may want to give this one a pass.I knew going into it that this was a story populated with moody dickholes, so that part of it didn't bother me.What I didn't realize was that this was going to be a fairly random, rambling book.
While not wholly correct about my take he came pretty close.:Well, first Stephen, you're right in a way, I don't like stories that are "downers just to be downers".
This is a disillusioned, sad, and corrupted version of "the magical story".
The sad part is that thinking themselves to be "above it all" they actually miss the joy and...yes the magic of the things at which they sneer and look down.No. I really don't care for and can't recommend this book.
Nothing else really matters to him except the Fillory and Further series of books he's loved since childhood.
Imagine how he feels when a seamingly routine college interview drops an undiscovered Fillory book in his grasp and leads him to Brakebills, a college of wizardry, and worlds beyond...First of all, this isn't Harry Potter for adults, no matter how much people want to slap that label on it.
It has a superficial resemblance to Harry Potter in that both books involve learning to be a wizard.
Quentin's never happy, not even in his relationship with Alice or his friendships with the other wizards.One thing that stands out in The Magicians is the magic.
And that's why I was so excited to get my hands on Lev Grossman's The Magicians, one of the most heavily hyped books of last autumn, because it comes with an excellent pedigree: written by the main book critic for Time magazine, it is purportedly an inventive urban-fantasy tale described by many as "Harry Potter for grown-ups" (or technically, "Harry Potter meets Narnia for grown-ups," the milieu of each taking up either half of Grossman's own novel), and with a whole series of gushing blurbs on the back cover from a whole series of impressive authors, with no less than Junot Diaz calling it "stirring, complex and adventurous." (Of course, this nicely illustrates as well the inherent ethical problems with a book reviewer writing and publishing their own creative work; because who's to say that any of these quoted authors actually meant any of the praise they give, and aren't instead terrified of Grossman doing a hatchet job on their own books for refusing to play along?
The main character (all the characters actually!) is a depressed, "Iamverysmart" young adult who gets to go to a magical school thinking it's finally the answer to his unhappiness.The pacing is what left me the most unsatisfied.
but I'm definitely planning on continuing the series and cannot wait to see where it goes!So basically to enjoy this book you'll have to remember that the characters are unlikeable, only half the book contains the magical school so there won't be much "everyday life a la Harry Potter" here and that the school is basically just to open the magical universe.I'll watch the TV Show and update you :)
After that it took a few days of solid social interaction with good friends to convince me that I actually had something in common with my fellow humans -- that they weren't a bunch of ineffable Lovecraftian things hiding in bodies that looked like mine.(The most extreme version of this experience I've ever had was with Special Topics in Calamity Physics, a book widely praised but so staggeringly, contortedly bad that when I tried to review it, I got to 4300 words and gave up in despair because I hadn't even half exhausted all the issues I had with it.)What The Magicians very clearly wants to be is a darker, more realistic, more laddish version of Harry Potter or Narnia, combining the cutesy, whimsical worldbuilding of children's fantasy with adolescent protagonists who are horrible little shits in the way real adolescents are horrible little shits.
The complaints these reviewers had actually made me want to read the book.
There is some truth in this marketing scheme, but too many people who are ardent Harry Potter fans are not the proper readership for this book.
One reviewer said how much he despised this book, but that the "hipsters" would like it.
One of my favorite scenes is when the main character Quentin Coldwater and his friends are turning into geese to fly to Brakebills South in Antarctica.
Grossman actually does a good job developing the characters.
Meh. The story lacked in optimism, was devoid of magic and the main character?
It felt like he was striving to make the book something more than a mere fantasy novel, striving to grasp a deeper truth, striving to incorporate some existentialism into the story.
I would have liked it better if Grossman got in peace with the thought that you're writing a fantasy novel, and left it at that.
So Mr. Grossman if you like me for your fan, don't take yourself that seriously, throw me a bone next time and put in some magic and a few optimistic thoughts into the story.
From the very beginning of this story, I got the distinct feeling that Grossman was going to be taking "the less travelled path" in his fantasy novel.
The first half to two-thirds of the book is the story of Quentin Coldwater, a brilliant, angst-ridden, self-involved high school senior.
However, reality, even one with magic, is never as easy or as fun as Quentin's books make them out and so he finds himself disappointed and disillusioned a lot.
Thus, I found one of the book's central messages to be that part of growing up is reconciling your childhood dreams with the realities of everyday life, AND STILL FINDING A WAY TO BE HAPPY!!!
I tried. I really tried. Aside from enjoying the beginning, reading this book is like staring at a piece of cardboard for hours on end. It's just verryyyyyy dull to me and I don't care about it one bit. I may give it another chance someday, but no promises.However, I do want to give the tv series a shot, because I really didn't hate the characters or the world, I just can't get into the way they were written in this book.
Your book fucking sucks.This book was said to be the “adult version of Harry Potter.” Those are some big balls you have making that claim.
Clearly that person is a fucking moron who never read either book.
What I can’t forgive is Lev Grossman creating the most obnoxious character I have ever encountered.
And then goes to school at the Special Snowflake Academy where he learns some magic tricks.
But instead we get barely half of the book worth of schooling before they are all graduated and find out that their lives don’t matter.
No?No. I suppose you’re right.I almost never tell people not to read books.
It will devour all of the things you relish in stories like Harry Potter and The Chronicles of Narnia.
This is not "Adult Harry Potter." The magic in this story is not pretty or flamboyant.
I think that's apparent by just how mixed the reviews are.If you like your humor & your characters made up of morally black and grey fiber, this isn't one to miss out on.This review and other reviews of mine can be found on Book Nest!Buddy read this with my passionate reader friend, Jack!
I think I'll just stick with the TV series, because this is terrible.
I didn't think it was going to be a Harry Potter, as a matter of fact I knew it wouldn't be even though it was compared to HP....
Details seemed to be lacking and the only details we'd get is a knock off version of another fantasy book.
The writing was very poor, there was a lot of repetition to the words.
Quenten.....This was a very big disappointment for me because I would have thought the idea was a great one.
The poor writing, and badly executed plot made it a disappointment.
I think this is another case of highly publicized book that is only hype.
Sadly, there's no great sense of loss here, only a slow realization that the protagonist is as tiresome at the end as he was at the beginning.UPDATE 1: I found this line from a GoodReads review of the book and it seems to sum up what I'm feeling and what most non-hipsters felt about it: "This is a cold and sterile book for people who think themselves too sophisticated for genre fiction, a sub-section of the reading public that, I suspect, includes the author." Grossman is a "teller" not a "shower" and as a result he's really not much of a writer.
Terrifically horrible, gonorrheal mess--overly lauded by megastar writers because, as book critic for TIME, Grossman has been pivotal to an extent for some of their fame & $.
Obvi.Alas, one reads it and knows right around page three hundred what a swamp the rest of the voyage will be, as superduper 2D Harry-Hermione-Ron-Luna-&co.
It really is just those two books sewn together.
The disenchantment happens way earlier than page 300--I lied--but somehow I keep hating myself for spending so much time trying to reach the end of this ill-conceived drivel.
I was bored after page 121.
(What a dud!!)"Book critic"!?
The book has been called Harry Potter for grownups (it contains a magic school, what else will people call it?) and certainly Quentin is no brave-hearted, resilient hero-in-the-making in the model of young Mr Potter.
Thankfully we don’t have to suffer through that like the students do and we get to see some flashy magic later on.So half the book is Quentin going to school and learning his trade in a Harry Potter minus Dumbledore and Voldemort style.
But that doesn't do it justice because this was an extremely original and unique twist on the notion of what it would be like to actually live in a world where magic and fantasy realms exist.Quentin Coldwater is a bored teenager getting ready to apply for college but is already seriously disillusioned with his life and wishes things were more like his favorite fantasy novels set in a land called Fillory, which is essentially the author's stand-in for Narnia.
Even though he's always longed for a world closer to his Filory novels, he never sees the adventure he's living by learning magic and all the things that go into his training.
I was immediately drawn into Lev Grossman’s The Magicians, but then spent most of the remainder of the book wondering why I was reading it.
Still, it was well-written and I appreciated Grossman’s depiction of the magical world as something other than a place of awe and wonder.
To escape what they come to view as meaningless existence, these mages travel to the mythical world of Fillory and become involved in a war they clearly don’t understand (seemingly because they have become bored with their lives and have nothing better to do).
Curse you Lev Grossman!
Everything is extremely flat and without any flair of ,let's say, Hogwarts; where the reader can see for himself how unique magic really is - in vivid detail.Even the Fillory books - fantasy novels which Quentin is a fan of - are special because Grossman tells us they are special.
In Grossman's world (both fantasy and magical) everything is forced upon the reader, including his message - it's rather simple, but the reader is forced to undergo great pains to arrive at the conclusion that is painfully obvious from the very beginning.If you want to be bored and depressed simply because the author bores you and tells you to be depressed, you might get something from The Magicians.
The Magicians by Lev Grossman is one of the most frequently reviewed fantasy novels of the last few years, which isn’t surprising because the author is a well known writer (and book reviewer) for TIME Magazine, and the book was very effectively hyped as “Harry Potter with college age students.” The end result of all of this is that lots of people who don’t regularly read fantasy have picked up this novel, and many of them had their expectations severely challenged.
So, is The Magicians also worth the time for true-blooded, die-hard fantasy fans?
Escapism is one the main functions of fiction novels, and is something that even a modestly written book can accomplish.The Magicians poses those questions to main character Quentin Coldwater, though how those questions get resolved happens in ways that aren't quite what we as readers are used to.
He feels the difference between what the world is, and what he would make of it."I think this book asks two very difficult questions, questions that we are generally used to asking in real life, but not so readily equipped to deal with when posed by a book.
Instagram || Twitter || Facebook || Amazon || PinterestDNF @ 36%Mastubatory fantasy for the disaffected intellectual who thinks Harry Potter needs less friendship and more Ayn Rand and Bret Easton Ellis. If the idea of reading about a bunch of self-congratulatory little assholes learning magic appeals to you, then by all means, pick up THE MAGICIANS. I should point out that my qualm itself is less about the characters and more about the stilted writing and the lazy portrayal in which they are f
Instagram || Twitter || Facebook || Amazon || PinterestDNF @ 36%Mastubatory fantasy for the disaffected intellectual who thinks Harry Potter needs less friendship and more Ayn Rand and Bret Easton Ellis. If the idea of reading about a bunch of self-congratulatory little assholes learning magic appeals to you, then by all means, pick up THE MAGICIANS. I should point out that my qualm itself is less about the characters and more about the stilted writing and the lazy portrayal in which they are framed. I can handle unlikable, morally grey protagonists - just don't bore me.1 to 1.5 stars

2.5 stars This isn't to say I don't think this is a good book.
I think it's very clever.
It messes with your expectations, about everything, and because of that there were many parts I didn't actively enjoy.
(I would say that I passively enjoyed it...
Is that a thing?) Because of that it gets a lower rating.
I do feel that this is the kind of book that can't be rated individually and instead the series should be reviewed as a whole.
I will continue with this series and I'm looking forward to it.I have a full review coming on Monday on my channel!
