https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/270966.The_Culture_of_Cities
The first part covers the city from the middle ages to the modern megalopolis (as of the 1930s when the book was written).
The second part presentats the concepts of biogregions and garden cities as the way forward for urban life.
But some momentum is building for bioregionalism (e.g. Barbara Kingsolver's /Animal, Vegetable, Miracle: A Year of Food Life.Mumfords presentation of the history of urban life here is quite good, although his later work The City in History is superior on that front.
It is the presentation of bioregionalism that is the special contribution of The Culture of Cities.
i could only find this "book 2", but i have only seen the full edition (maybe it is 2 books combined?).
this book is amazing!
it talks about the development of the city since ancient and medieval times (but keep in mind it .
it disses pittsburgh the couple times it mentions it, for it's major pollution.
actually, one of these pitts-dis-pages is my favouritepart of the book!
lewis starts going off on how living near industry, disconnected from nature and in the dark and dirty city mutes your senses and you lose your appreciation for the fresh and fine things.
Nearly 80 years old from its original publication, the book anticipates many of the changes of the 20th century -- including efforts like Brasilia and planned cities -- as well as some nostalgia for the rural-focused 19th century country like.Mumford looks at the rise of cities going back more than 1,000 years, focusing on how urban areas affected the political balance in a nation-state.
Unfortunately, he was also too early to see some of the extraordinary advances in the second half of the 20th century, especially in communications, transportation, and infrastructure, that have had such an enormous impact on today's cities.For readers new to urban planning, the Culture of Cities can be a bit dense, as it is packed with facts and references.
Even though it was first published over 70 years ago, The Culture of Cities is still incredibly relevant; maybe because, sadly, most of its optimistic predictions have yet to be realized. Clearly the product of a brilliant mind.
cities
This is a great book for architecture student like me

