https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/41707.Atlantis_Found
After plodding through this book on audio for days, I started to listen today & his hero uses a string to tie 3 rifles together.
The good guys are so good they can judge how hard to hit a man in the back of the head to get within a pound of a killing blow - seriously, Cussler writes that at one point.
A while later, the heroes are outnumbered 7 to 2, armed with just rocks, while the bad guys have automatic weapons, pistols, body armor, radio headsets & a helicopter with a machine gun & missiles.
Holiday reading.
Sadly it is a fantasy - but I hope the big-wigs in Washington realise what a soft power asset they have in the man, far more useful in the struggle for hearts and minds than funding a bunch of European intellectuals.I really do recommend this book as a fun read for a holiday or long train journeys or flights.
The man keeps his writing simple but clean and he never ever patronises his audience.
The only book I can remember reading that I gave up on after only ten pages.
For some reasons, Dirk Pitt is better than James Bond for me.
What a long book!While this one took me a while to finish, partly because I've had less time to read as of late, I still had a blast with it. A convoluted plot, plenty of action, likable heroes...this was an old-school style page-turner.Unfortunately, some profanity and occasional crude remarks were thrown into the mix. That may bother some discerning readers; for those who don't mind it, though, this is worth reading.(It's ironic that this book involves a major disaster happening in 2001; we all know what happened on a certain day that year.)
Outstanding book! I was kept on the edge of my seat until the last page was turned - and I mean the very last. Marvelously written, great character development, and set in largely a forbidden climate. Most intriguing.
It doesn't even make that much sense why they would be interested in them in the first place, other than the obvious connection that their secret base is located in the Amenes' Antarctic ruins.- On a related note, why were they so intent on killing Pat O'Connell at the Colorado mine, only to later kidnap her and keep her alive?
Not to mention that he refers to himself as "Dad", which is gag-inducing.Unrelated and potentially uninteresting fact: This is the fourth consecutive novel I have read where Matthew McConaughey played the book's protagonist in a movie adaptation -- Mickey Haller in The Lincoln Lawyer and The Brass Verdict, Jake Brigance in A Time to Kill, and now Dirk Pitt here.
Mr. Cussler apparently leads an adventurous life and has a deep imagination for storytelling but he's not a great writer.
None of the characters speak the way a normal person does and it just gets worse as the book progresses.
Cussler also has a propensity for over-the-top metaphors.I enjoyed the book to a degree and wanted to keep reading to find out the full story, but it was a chore at times because of the poor writing.
Can Dirk save the world before it’s too late?Characters: Dirk Pitt is loveable, if a little too able to escape death James Bond style.
There are plenty of bad guys to boo at as well.Style Of Writing: I find that he tends to put in details that are un-nessesary, just because he knows them, like boat engine sizes and things, not essential to the plot.Overall Opinion: I really enjoyed this book, although it seemed to go on a little bit after the disaster had been averted, and by then you’re too relieved to concentrate.Recommended If: You want a thriller that takes a while to get going, but hits you when it does.
In the 15th installment of Clive Cussler's Dirk Pitt NUMA series, Atlantis Found, Dirk and Al return in another crazy adventure to save the world.
In September 1858, an Antartic whaler stumbled on an aged wreck with a frozen crew and an obsidian skull.
A month later, Dirk Pitt and his crew was nearly sunk by a vessel that should've died 58 years ago.
Now Dirk knew that these incidents were all connected, when he began an investigation of an ancient mystery.
It was now up to him to stop a mad man to save his life and the whole world, too, before we would have our own Armageddon.
Ok I admit it.
I adore a good adventure -- even the cheesy, over the top, omg end-of-the-world ramifications, mary-sue/gary-stu inducing kind - as long as the plot is exciting and it is well written.
Never good in huge doses but a delight to enjoy.
I'm always willing to take on the most recent pile of Cussler novels an old housemate passes along to me to enjoy.
In this Dirk Pitt adventure we off into another historical mystery.
I don't wish to spoil any of the fun so I won't type out any of the plot.
It is a good fun ride.
As the story progresses, the plot splits off in several directions with a group of NUMA agents searching for evidence of the ancient culture on an isolated island, some researchers trying to decipher the ancient language and threats of doom, and the eponymous hero searching for the old vessel in the arctic, and through the discovery of the cause of the demise of the ancient civilization and failed attacks on both search teams by a strike team on the island and an advanced WWII era U-Boat in the Antarctic, the agency discovers that it may be in for one hell of a fight.


Will it win the Booker Prize, No ! However is it enjoyable, well written, easy reading and fun, Yes !All Dirk Pitt novels are similar in some respects, some more believable and/or well written than others, this is undoubtedly one of the best. Yes the book has taken me 20days to read but I have been exceptionally busy and believe me the book is one you will have trouble putting down as you won't want to wait to see what happens to Dirk and Al next.
Great book - Could not put it down! Great take on the legend of Atlantis. Cussler's action sequences are very fun and makes you wish the whole book was all action. But he spins the story/plot in w/ ease. His villains are always scary enough to respect them, and the tension toward the deadline of the end of the world builds perfectly.
What a thrilling plot! Civilizations under ice, Nazis, city sized ships and all the fantastic action found in any of Cussler's books! This was a top 5 of the series for sure.
Atlantis Found By Clive Cussler Overall Rating: Only Meant For A Audience Who Like Things That Go Boom Clive Cussler. I really don’t know much about this author other than he tends to write these Indiana Jones like adventures. A friend in high school was a real book worm. (Bigger than I am, if you can believe that) said I might like him since I like Crichton and Ludlum. So she gave me three books. Vahalla rising, Sahara and Atlantis Found. I read Sahara way back when and found I didn’t like it a
I read Sahara way back when and found I didn’t like it and gave Vahalla Rising to another friend because she loves those “Dirk Pitt” novels.
When I found this book, I was like “Maybe I’ll give Clive Cussler a second chance.” All I knew, it was a Dirk Pitt novel.
Soon after Dirk and his cliché side kick Al Giordino investigate, they find that these are the remains of the possible Atlanteans who are predicting the end of the world and the people who want to hide this information is a crazy neo Nazi family who even altered their own genetics with Hitler’s DNA.
E' Clusser c'è poco da dire, scritto bene, scorrevole, solo che questa volta Dirk è peggio di James fa tutto, gli riesce tutto, che a MacGyver gli prende un colpo! E' stato un po' eccessivo, ma oltre a questo bel libro come sempre
Oh my dear fucking gods.A full rant coming up ahead.
Good, predictable Dirk Pitt story.
The discovery of an ancient but advanced lost civilization wiped out suddenly and without warning drives the plot as Dirk Pitt tries to determine why someone wants to keep this finding secret.
Oh, and there are Nazis as the bad guys.
Easy-to-dislike Nazis.
It's really good, but I realized the problem was Cussler has always been so far ahead with his tech in every novel that reading it 18 years after its publication has its downfalls, namely, that what's described isn't as futuristic as it would have seemed then.
Intrigued/piqued by how things were left off for Pitt and Giordino...
I'll definitely read the next one.
May have slight spoilers.In this fifteenth Dirk Pitt novel by Clive Cussler, Dirk is once again saving the world from terrible, catastrophic destruction that would kill millions if not all people on earth; not to mention the plant life, sea life and animal life as well.As with this authors' other books in the series, Cussler starts off from the very start of the events that will lead up to the present day—2001—and Dirk Pitt.In Atlantis Found we kind of have two beginning parts one set in 7120 B.C. where we lean of a comet that crashes into earth and annihilates almost all life—sea, animal, human—and the civilizations that had been formed over time, leaving only the nomad stone age people that we believe to be the start of our ancestors.
A thriller that contains lost ships, missing bodies, and all the danger that Dirk Pitts can handle. Also includes a quest for the Holy Lance.
I also wasn't too keen on the fantastical capabilities of the character given his relatively simple military background.
At least the love interest wasn't overdone or distracting.The thing that really came close to ending it for me was the Mary-Sue. Yes, Clive Cussler put himself in his own story, as a minor character that owned the one thing they needed to save the world, and even used his own name.
By then, I was nearly done with the nearly-500-pages story, so I continued.
But it was an interesting treatment of the story of Atlantis.
Dirk Pitt and his friend Al Giordino race to locate all the pieces of the mystery and discover the true nature of what is going on but its a race against time as the countdown to the end of the world has already started.
I've been reading him for years, and while quite the extender of possible truths, why care if each page is what it is...fictional?
Who cares if the plots are a stretch for the real, the main character is a womanizer and seems anti-family, drinks a lot (though I disagree with tequila myself...I like a good single malt), is perpetually good looking regardless of his age...I don't.
If you like books on the ocean and exotic locations, don't mind drowning in fiction, have time on your hands for high adventure where the guy always rescues the maiden, grab a Clive Cussler novel.
When mysterious black obsidian skulls of an ancient culture begin to turn up in the Rocky Mountains and Argentina, Pitt and Al team up with Pat O'Connell, an expert in ancient languages, to decipher the meaning of the artifacts.
The skulls were made 10K years ago in a then-temperate Antarctica by a seafaring civilization advanced enough to predict its own destruction by a comet impact in 7120 BC.
Now the Fourth Empire (Wolf's group) is predicting a similar disaster in only a matter of months, and preparing to take control of the earth.
Just like in the other books in the series, he always finds a way to outsmart the bad people and always finds what he is looking for.
In this book it was not so simple; he had to use the bad people to find the artifact.
This is different then his other books and I think that it was a great way to represent this book.
Clive Cussler is one of my favorite authors, and I can’t wait to read the next book in his series.
Clive Cussler is just that good of an author and I believe that anyone who reads his books will fall in love with them.
Pitt also has an extensive collection of antique cars, and a plane or two, many of which have starring roles in various chases throughout his books.
It just so happens Cussler has an antique car collection, which he prominently displays on many book jackets, and that he was an aircraft mechanic during the Korean War. All parallels aside, his books that I have read pretty much all follow the same template: world in danger>dirk saves the day>dirk gets the girl.
Sometimes he gets the girl before he saves the world etc.
