https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/498490.The_Three_Coffins
Η πλοκή είναι εξαιρετική.
Φείλ καλείται να λύσει ένα έγκλημα που εκ πρώτης όψεως φαίνεται ότι είναι πέρα από κάθε λογική.
Η συνέχεια είναι πέρα από κάθε αναγνωστική προσδοκία.
Κι ωστόσο είναι ταυτόχρονα απόλυτα πειστική, απόλυτα σατανική στη σύλληψή της, καθώς τα επάλληλα γεγονότα εξηγούν αλυσιδωτά το ένα το άλλο μετατρέποντας με πανούργο τρόπο τον αναγνώστη σε αθέατο "συνένοχο" αυτού του "αδύνατου εγκλήματος".
Όσο για τη λύση του μυστηρίου, θεωρείται από τις πλέον πρωτότυπες λύσεις που έχει δώσει συγγραφέας σε βιβλίο με αστυνομική πλοκή.Ίσως στην άρχη να κουράσει μερικούς αναγνώστες αλλά τα υπόλοιπο βιβλίο είναι απλά υπέροχο.
(All mystery stories do that, obviously, but this is a howdunnit wrapped up with a whodunit and so playing at a higher level than your standard mystery.) Of course, as this book also acknowledges, a locked room mystery has to pull off a trick that most magicians never dare – it has to expose the workings.
That’s why a book like this, more than any other, stands and falls on its ending.Post-modern before there was such a term, the characters at one point break off to acknowledge that yes, indeed, they are characters in a detective story and then debate other fictional locked room mysteries.
A classic whodunnit and locked room mystery story, with a special chapter 17 that could be re-read frequently explaining the essence of murder mystery fictions.
Loved this book.Professor Charles Grimaud is confronted by a mysterious man come across him and soem of his friends who claims that men can arise from the grave and walk through walls.
We then follow a few days later and found that Grimaud has been shot and left to die in a room that a man entered and did not leave.
I loved the writing though at times the story gets a bit bogged down with Fell trying to tell Hadley what he has wrong or telling Hadley that he himself was wrong.
and another.Indeed, the novel reaches a curious self-referencing climax, when – three-quarters through – this exchange takes place:‘But, if you’re going to analyse impossible situations,’ interrupted Pettis, ‘why discuss detective fiction?’ ‘Because,’ said the doctor, frankly, ‘we’re in a detective story, and we don’t fool the reader by pretending we’re not.’I’m used to the likes of Captain Hastings speaking from his journal, but this was a whole new take on the omniscient narrator.
Carr's style when writing Dr. Fell is a bit didatic and may turn off some readers but I loved the (somewhat lengthy) exposition Fell gives about the various types of so-called "locked room" mysteries.
But when you twist this matter of taste into a rule for judging the merit or even the probability of the story, you are merely saying, 'This series of events couldn't happen, because I shouldn't enjoy it if it did.'"As I was starting this book, I realized that I had read a few other Gideon Fell mysteries before and that Fell wasn't as much fun as Gervase Fen. In other words, I do not much like Carr's mysteries or perhaps just not his writing style.
I am gobsmacked by this book.I don't know where I picked up the notion that Carr wrote noir, but I cracked this book open expecting dames and hardboiled, hard drinking private dicks and speakeasies.
Let's not invent elaborate excuses to drag in a discussion of detective stories.
Let's candidly glory in the noblest pursuits possible to characters in a book."
The stranger discusses a story about three coffins and then tells Grimaud that either Fley or his brother would be calling upon him soon.
Dr. Gideon Fell is called in, and his investigation makes for one of the best locked-room mysteries I've ever read.
Most excellent -- a fine challenge to my overtired brain in trying to figure out how the heck this was done.I will caution you, however, that if you are planning to read any of the following books, Fell, in a very fine discourse upon the subject of crimes in hermetically sealed rooms, tells how various authors plotted some more well-known locked room mysteries.
I picked The Three Coffins (aka Hollow Man) up when, after I started reading the Poirot mysteries, Adam mentioned the term "Locked Room Mysteries".
In such a celebrated mystery, I knew I'd want to analyze and try to figure it out myself rather than simply reading through it for plot and letting the characters sort out the mystery.If I hadn't in recent months declared I'd stop starting new series (gees, I hardly have time for non-series reading anymore), I'd go through these from number 1 on up.
Haven't read the author before and stumbled across this novel on "The Guardian 1000" books to read list. This was a relatively complicated locked room mystery. There's not one but two murders to be solved by Superintendent Hadley and the very clever Dr Gideon Fell. For this reader the highlight of the novel was Dr Fell's dissertation on "murder." Enjoyed the vintage atmosphere and the characters on offer but an overly wordy mystery.
In the introduction it's written, "He (John Dickson Carr) liked to present the reader with all the clues needed to solve the mystery," so I went into this with all intentions of unraveling this seemingly impossible murder mystery. But MIss Marple, Sherlock Holmes, Hercule Poirot, Nancy Drew, Charlie Chan, Columbo and Jim Rockford together wouldn't have figured this out. Still it was fun to read and try to guess who did it. Solid 3 stars.
In my case, The Three Coffins served to remind me why I quit reading traditional whodunnits.The best part of the book is its famous twenty-seventh chapter, "The Locked-Room Lecture." This disquisition could be read with enjoyment apart from the rest of the novel.
(Indeed, this is what I wish I had done myself.) Here, John Dickson Carr's detective-hero, Dr. Gideon Fell, gives an entertaining history and theory of locked-room mysteries.
(See, for example, Sherlock Holmes.) In The Three Coffins, however, the characters are paper-thin, and all they ever do is talk, trading their tedious theories back and forth.
Most likely you're reading John Dickson Carr.A murder is committed by a man in a mask, who leaves no footprints in the newly fallen snow outside, and who, after having done the deed, disappears into thin air in a locked room.Just writing that sends a shiver up my spine.I can remember hearing a radio theater version of this when I was a kid.
Brilliant but exhausting. If you're in for a locked-room mystery, this is gonna be your thing.This is the book that contains the famous chapter on locked-room mysteries, and it was brilliant, but I also felt a little wounded by it--one of those pull-back-the-curtain moments that shows you how the sausage is made. I wasn't ready for it, and it put me at a distance from the end of the book.
Il geniale Gideon Fell, da me già conosciuto in altri gialli del maestro, ha comunque un sospettato...e questo sospettato, poco dopo, viene a sua volta assassinato in una strada deserta a pochi passi da casa Grimaud, da un individuo che anche qui pare subito dissolversi nell'aria gelida della nottata, mentre i fiocchi di neve continuano a cadere con una lentezza macabra e glaciale.
Ma siamo fra le pagine di un giallo di John Dickson Carr, che qui dà il meglio di sè e ci consegnerà su un vassoio d'argento la soluzione razionale, concreta e al tempo stesso sbalorditiva e impensabile di un mistero intricato e impenetrabile.
Giallo che, comunque, resta per me una conferma dell'assoluta genialità e dell'incredibile intelligenza del maestro.
'I have committed another crime Hadley' said the detective, 'I have guessed the truth'This is how the book ends.
The whole problem with this detective story is that the detective 'guesses' the truth and does not deduce it.
Story: This is a closed room murder mystery.
Why is it so famous?The book is famous not so much for its mystery but for the chapter which classifies closed room murders into different segments.
Pick up this book only if you have exhausted their body of work.
The first what I would call "successful" locked room mystery that I've read, beating out near miss Ten Little Indians.
Not for those expecting verisimilitude or believable dialog or scintillating prose.Man is murdered inside a locked room with an open window revealing untrodden snow.
15 minutes later another man, possibly the murderer of the first, dies in the middle of a snowy road from a point-blank shot with no other footprints than his nearby.While it is true that there are many hints as to what has happened, it's a stretch to claim anyone could completely figure it out, as key facts are not disclosed till the explication.
Fun, though.
All the fun comes in the last few pages, but the cost of the build-up is minimal.
Having become intrigued by his reputation as a master of the locked room mystery, I learned that The Hollow Man is considered one of his best.
And HM is an intriguing and colourful detective, who I had encountered before in the classic short story The House In Goblin Wood, a favourite of anthologists.If I had a complaint, it would be about characterisation of the supporting cast, which was somewhat half-hearted, but this tends to be rather a frequent indicator of the puzzle-oriented Golden Age. A dose of Gothic romance, which we do have here, can do wonders in livening up somewhat one-dimensional characters.
Anyway, overall I enjoyed this and would recommend it to anyone who, like me, wanted to know what all the fuss re locked rooms was about.
A witness sees Grimaud let the stranger into his study and close the door, and continues to observe the door until after a few minutes, shots ring out from the study.
I actually sussed out one thing about the murder (and that was by the 'fire every dart at the target and hope' method) but compared to the average mortal Carr has the brain the size of several multiverses.Even a hardcore horror fan who wouldn't read a crime novel if it was the last book on the desert island would like this as is it's just so seamlessly written, puzzle following on puzzle, totally logical but utterly baffling and there is a consistently surreal and macabre element operating in the background which maintains a kind of horrific ambiance.Read more: http://vaultofevil.proboards.com/post...
This is another one that I'd heard of but never read - and I really enjoyed it. Yes, it's another one that doesn't read well in 2017 for its attitudes to anyone not a white Englishman, in particular some really distressing casual violence towards female characters, BUT it's also a super clever and playful locked room mystery that's going to delight any crime fan. 14+*Please note: this review is meant as a recommendation only. Please do not use it in any marketing material, online or in print, without asking permission from me first. Thank you!*
I had read (somewhere) that this is the ultimate "Locked Room"-mystery. Seems like a valid statement. Good luck solving this puzzle though!
The Hollow Man was apparently voted the “best locked room mystery of all time”, so it comes as no surprise to discover its one of those completely contrived murder mysteries which are set up in order to make the protagonist – eccentric detective Gideon Fell, who is based on London – appear enormously clever.
The Hollow Man is split into three sections.
The final section reveals the back-history of the two dead men (they were brothers) and Fell explains, with diagrams, how both murders were committed.
The first was deliberately contrived to be a locked room mystery, the second only became a mystery through a sequence of unlikely events.
Ο Αμερικανός Καρ στον 'Ασώματο άνθρωπο' μεταφέρει τη πλοκή στο Λονδίνο και, σε πολλά σημεία, δίνει την αίσθηση ότι προσπαθεί να μιμηθεί Άγγλους συγγραφείς αστυνομικών μυθιστορημάτων, ωστόσο, από τη μέση και μετά του βιβλίου βομβαρδίζει τον αναγνώστη με πολλές λεπτομέρειες και περιττές αναλύσεις, οι οποίες αποπροσανατολίζουν και κουράζουν.
Θα μπορούσε το βιβλίο να είναι μικρότερο σε έκταση, ώστε η εμπνευσμένη και πρωτότυπη λύση που δίνεται στο μυστήριο να αποκτά και μεγαλύτερη βαρύτητα.Ίσως είναι από τα δυσκολότερα αστυνομικά μυθιστορήματα στην ανάγνωση, οπότε χρειάζεται χρόνος, υπομονή και κατάλληλη διάθεση.
Πάντως μαζί με το 'Μυστήριο του Κίτρινου Δωματίου' του Γκαστόν Λερού (1907) και το 'Μυστήριο του Κόκκινου Σπιτιού' του Α.
Α. Μίλν (1922) αποτελούν τα σημαντικότερα και κλασικότερα αστυνομικά μυθιστορήματα 'κλειδωμένου δωματίου'.
I tip my hat to anyone who can figure this one out before the explanation part.
As far as mysteries go, this one is really ingeniously designed and deserves its fame as the best locked room mystery.
Also, the part towards the end where Gideon Fell deconstructs the Locked Room subgenre in detective stories is interesting too.These being said, the style of writing was too awkward for me to enjoy it.
And although the background story was interesting for the crime, the whole book felt like a ruse to put the puzzle forward.
His locked-room mysteries are always preposterous and his prose is very much of its era, but if you only read one of his mysteries this is the one to go for.
Take two crimes, one in a locked room and one in a snowbound street to which the murderer could not have gained admittance, add a definitive fourth-wall-breaking lecture on the art of the locked room mystery and provide a solution so insane that no murderer would ever attempt it - but who cares when the result is so entertaining?This is tighter than most of Carr's books, which are often painfully laboured.
This one has a different cover.Bizarre. One of the classics. A bag of magic tricks. Dr. Fell advises that the resolution was determined by the weight of a picture. John Dickson Carr is the master of the locked room mystery. This was the sixth in the series. Peter Lovesey pays homage in Bloodhounds.
Very interesting tale, it was interesting the way the story was integrated with the atmosphere of magic and illusions. I also liked very much Dr Gideon Fell and the fact that contrary to detectives of this era he is not infallible and he confesses it. I also liked the lecture about the locked room mysteries even though it contained spoilers. Fortunatelly I have already read the yellow room by Leroux that is considered the best one.
Although this is considered one of the best locked room mysteries, it wasn't that interesting. Not very much happened after the initial crimes; you had to wait for Dr. Gideon Fell to figure out what happened. It had a very slow pace. The ending, while unexpected, was a little too fantastic to be realistic. I had to skip a page or two in chapter 27 because Dr. Fell kept referencing the solutions of other famous mysteries that I want to read later. 2.5 stars.
A Grand Master of Mystery...a classic example of the locked room mystery....Apparently back in the '30's, mystery readers were smarter, had longer attention spans, and were easily duped into believing anything.I just don't get it.There is mention of another Locked Room mystery-The Problem of Cell 13-read it many years ago and it was excellent. Definitely better than this one.
Short and stimulating. The meta fiction part about the locked room discussion is brilliant. There is no such thing as 'improbable', indeed.
