https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/24662066-signed-picpus
Despite the best precautions, one Madame Jeanne is stabbed to death at that precise moment.
Locked in Madame Jeanne’s kitchen is a doddering old man, one Octave Le Cloaguen.
And who killed her?Detective Chief Inspector Maigret is frustrated both by the many pieces of this puzzle that don’t fit and by an ignoramus of an examining magistrate who tries to push Maigret in the wrong direction.
Although Signed, Picpus is the 23rd novel in the series, it’s set before Pietr the Latvian, the first-ever Maigret novel.
(view spoiler)[Sergeant Torrence, killed in that first novel, is alive and well in this novel.
(hide spoiler)]
The characters were beginning to take shape, the stage was more or less set, but the actors' parts seemed as yet unrelated.Where most writers of mysteries go astray is in following the grand tradition of Tales of Ratiocination more or less invented by Edgar Allan Poe and brought to its apogee with Arthur Conan Doyle's Sherlock Holmes stories.The truth of the matter is that Inspector (excuse me, by now he's a Superintendent) Maigret is no Holmes.
Another perfect miniature filled with telling little observations, economical yet vivid characterisation and a lot of beer down the hatch as Maigret deals with a murder that was predicted before it happened - the murder of a fortuneteller.
For once, too much complicated puzzle, and not enough local colour and depth of characters.
So, only 4*!"A small, thin man, rather dull to look at, neither young nor old, exuding the stale smell of a bachelor who does not look after himself.
He pulls his fingers and cracks his knuckles and tells his tale the way a schoolboy recites his lesson.A mysterious note predicting the murder of a fortune-teller; a confused old man locked in a Paris apartment; a financier who goes fishing; a South American heiress ...
Maigret must make his way through a frustrating maze of clues, suspects and motives to find out what connects them."
Plné 4* to nebude. Místy kniha působí jako nepřehledné střídání střihů filmových záběrů. Zbytek hodnotím kladně. Postavy i zápletka výtečná.
3.5/5
Sometimes reading can be like dining out on a heavy many coursed banquet; short novels or classics like a Maigret story can be as refreshing as a citrus sorbet.
While everyone else is stuck in this mindset Maigret has sudden illumination and armed with a soluition then finds the evidence to support his suspicions.Simenon is able to write about the odd aspects of life and while it brings great depth to his tableau elements stay with his detective.
A great statement to bring classic literature within our reach it just needs crime fans to read them and for a new generation to fall in love with Maigret.
There are generally three categories of Maigret book-good, very good and classic. This book falls into the latter category. Murder, blackmail and fraud in the sweltering Parisian August heat. Maigret smokes his pipe and drinks his beer and sees all. Read it!
He arranges for all the known clairvoyants in Paris to be watched, but the murder occurs on a woman not known to the police.
As usual he is terribly rude and keeps people waiting for hours at various points of the investigation, with no concern at all for their discomfort.
His team, Lucas and Janvier especially, have to put up with not really knowing what is going on, but there are remarks that the way that Maigret solved this case would turn out to the stuff of legend in the Police Judiciare.
A nervous man comes to Maigret with a blotter which shows a letter has been written predicting the murder of a fortuneteller at 5 PM on a certain day.
Police efforts to thwart the killing are unsuccessful and Mademoiselle Jeanne is found stabbed in her apartment.
More interestingly, an old man, Octave Le Cloag, wearing an old overcoat and seemingly daft, is locked in the kitchen.
The chief inspector’s search leads him to a fishing resort on the Seine, a bridge club in Paris and to an aging but elegant home where Le Cloag is apparently housed under normal circumstances.
Have been gradually reading (re-reading) the Inspector Maigret series in their original order of publication. I must have jumped ahead of the order because in this novel Simenon altered his usual narrative style. He included paragraphs that expose more of Maigret's thoughts than has been the norm in earlier novels. There are also references as to how this particular investigation is viewed, upon reflection, at an unspecified time in the future. Quite a change. It must have been very liberating
Have been gradually reading (re-reading) the Inspector Maigret series in their original order of publication. I must have jumped ahead of the order because in this novel Simenon altered his usual narrative style. He included paragraphs that expose more of Maigret's thoughts than has been the norm in earlier novels. There are also references as to how this particular investigation is viewed, upon reflection, at an unspecified time in the future. Quite a change. It must have been very liberating for him.
This particular Maigret is almost stream of consciousness in style with lots of odd little jumps and starts between Maigret's thoughts, actions and speech. As with most of the Maigret's, you can often work out what happened or who did it fairly easily. The joy of the reading experience is watching Maigret work it through in his own inimitable way. There is an engaging sense of charm and self-importance that oozes not only from Maigret, but from the writer as well.My full review here - http://bronasbooks.blogspot.com/2018/...
L'indovina è stata trovata morta alle 17, come Picpus aveva predetto.Questo giallo di Simenon parte da questo omicidio da cui si snoda una storia piuttosto contorta.Ho trovato troppi personaggi in poco tempo e alcuni improbabili connessioni tra le vicende della storia. Un giallo forse troppo denso e frenetico per il solito Maigret e meno avvincente degli altri
Inspector Maigret receives a tip-off that a fortuneteller is about to be killed but lacks the information necessary to prevent her death.
Upon arriving at the murder scene, a man of diminished mental capacities claiming to have no knowledge of the crime is discovered locked in the dead woman's kitchen, and Maigret soon finds himself sorting out an entire cast of oddball characters loosely connected to the deceased fortuneteller.The fortuneteller is killed off stage in the book's opening pages, so Maigret isn't confronted with any otherworldly predictions, which is a missed opportunity in my opinion.
The case is surrounded by what seems like a lot of red herrings, but Maigret ties them all together in the end.
A detective investigates a murder that has been predicted in a mysterious note.I thought this was a clever short story, with the first half being a bit confusing but everything becoming clear at the end.
Another good one.
Another good Maigret
Above average detective story.
I read a mystery for mystery week! I found the ending to be somewhat unsatisfying, although I did enjoy trying to follow the clues.
Maigret works his way steadily through to the resolution of a baffling murder mystery.
http://speloncalibro.blogspot.it/2008...
Interestingly, the method by which Maigret solves his cases is succinctly described in a passage about two-thirds into the book: "Maigret has worked all this out by himself, without any clues it might be said, or even more accurately by using clues which everyone else has missed, and in particular by drawing on his amazing tuition, his frightening ability to put himself in the shoes of other people."In the end, as if so often the case, the killer gets off scot-free, this time because the person who should be most aggrieved by the situation finds it all rather larkish and amusing.
My first question was, how did he know that piece of blotting paper hadn't been sitting around for a week or more?
Somehow, though, the telling (at least in the translation I read) is slightly tongue-in-cheek, as instead of focussing on the steaming heat of a Paris August with no rain in sight, Maigret dreams of the seaside in his odd moments of distraction.
But no one would dare call Maigret an alcoholic.It hurts like h e double toothpicks to give Simenon less than 5 stars, but I did object to the end, which is telling, not showing.
The man who discovered the note while writing one of his own, brought the information to the police, but later tries to commit suicide.
A financier goes fishing on the river at the Pretty Pigeon, where the fortuneteller used to vacation, but the fish he brings back bear no hook marks.
Guided by his intuition and his uncanny ability to connect the dots, he brings all the pieces together and finds that the crime was caused by the fear of poverty; a fear that will drive a man – or a woman – to ruthless deeds.
A man reports that a fortuneteller will be murdered on a specific day & time...
When the book opens, Maigret is waiting or this to happen.....
Thinking how foolish he will seem if his pronouncement (from another source) is incorrect.....The fortuneteller is indeed murdered, but she is one who is not known to the French constabulary, as she was not registered as such.
He slow & deliberate, but the reader never really knows what he is thinking...I would have liked a bit more excitement as this seemed to drag a bit, when dealing with the "simple" man's family.
A note is found that states a fortune teller will be killed on a specific date and signed by "Picpus." This lands on the desk of Inspector Maigret who is responsible for, much to the amusement of the rest of the police department, taking steps are taken to watch local fortune tellers - without success.
The investigation pulls together a seemingly disparate group of suspects, the investigation is successful, but the outcome leaves Maigret far from satisfied and heading home to a neglected Mrs. Maigret and straight to bed.Lots of alcohol drinking on the job in 1940s France - including offering drinks to suspects and informants at the police station.
The characters in this book come alive as you read the novel.
This is also, for me, one of the few recent mysteries in the past decade or so, that I didn't know who did it before the end of the book.This is also a book that is concise, in today's terms.
It's a little too easy for one's mind to meander away during most over written books today.
A reader has to be paying attention to follow this book of Simenon's.
That's something you don't have to do reading a Patterson book.
Simenon was one of my mother's favorite authors, and this being my first Simenon book, I can see why.
This book presents one of the more baffling cases to confront Maigret that I have yet read.
Although I don't read 'Maigret' novels for the plot but for the atmosphere, the plot of this one is compelling.
It was written in the 1940s and like all the 'Maigret' novels from that decade seems to be a little darker than those that came before and after.
In fact Maigret doesn't at all get his own way in the end.
The quality of the writing, as always, is excellent.This is the 25th 'Maigret' novel I have read so far.
I have been reading 'Maigret' novels for two years.

Maigret is the type of detective who notices all things, even when he doesn't know what he's noticing. He has a dour, un-readable face, and then sometimes he has a thought and his face reflect that. He tells people what to do but not what he's thinking or what any of it means. Pros: short, French, good settings and interesting (thought possibly superficial) mood.Cons: not much to dig into.I imagine I will read more of these. But not in any hurry.
