https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/10909804-just-my-type
Really, someone else designed each and every letter.For particularly lazy criminals this Ransom Note Vector font might come in handyGarfield offers us a laudable overview not just of what is out there in the world of fonting, (See, I didn’t say he was a font of wisdom on the subject) but how each and every bit of it (OK, OK, not each and every bit, but a whole lot of it) came to be, with notice given to many of those who did the hard work of designing and literally casting the dies which have defined printing for hundreds of years.
Who is responsible for the staid practicality of Times New Roman, the cool anonymity of Arial, or the irritating levity of Comic Sans (and the movement to ban it)?Typefaces are now 560 years old, but we barely knew their names until about twenty years ago when the pull-down font menus on our first computers made us all the gods of type.
Simon Garfield, not a first-time writer apparently though one couldn't prove it by me, is the perfect cicerone into the mysteries of typefaces, fonts, and typography (three separate things); he's as nutsy about the subject as one can get (did you know there's a type museum?
And the feuds range the gamut from public backlash over IKEA changing its font from Futura to Verdana to the online movement against Comic Sans (the world's worst font, allegedly).
And detail-oriented Nazis declared an official font--a form of German gothic--before later outlawing it because of its connections to Jewish bankers and printers.But a dog did get buggered, good and proper--and not by a font.*Just My Type is admittedly not a book for everyone.
I'm one of those rare people who love to see the page in the back of the book that tells what font the book was set in and provides information about its origin.
This book answers such basic questions as: What exactly is a typeface?
What's the difference between a typeface and a font?
What specific features make them good or bad--assuming one can qualify them subjectively in this way?
And why do people keep designing more?
Why are old ones still used today, whereas many newer (and carefully designed) ones will never be more than historical curiosities?Simon Garfield knows his subject thoroughly.
The book is lavishly endowed with anecdotes, humorous asides, historical details, examples of various typefaces and illustrations depicting their use.
But, as someone who likes to fall into Fowler's third group of those in his 'the personality of people with reference to the split-infinitive (that is, the group who know what they are while not to getting too worked up about them either way) I thought this book might be an interesting wee look at fonts, giving just enough information to be getting on with.
"What a crap film - set in 1872 and using signs printed in Gill Sans - not crafted until 1926 - honestly..." I’m just about to finish another book about the use of colour in films – like I said, I’m a bit obsessed with the stuff people use that we don’t notice, but that ultimately affects how and what we see.
As someone who has studied Typography at degree level, a lot of the content was information I already knew, the history of many famous typefaces and typographers, and news about different faces being used for different work (the Verdana/Ikea new story, the 2012 Olympic logo and font etc.) but in most cases went into a little bit more detail, so the stories were still interesting.There were many images of both the faces in use and the typographers at work, and the main bulk of the book itself is set in Sabon and Univers 45 Light.
Although it kind of goes astray at the end, the vast majority of this overview of fonts, typefaces, and typography is immensely entertaining and informative.
In that regard, this book is living up to the ideal designer Adrian Frutiger espouses in the chapter about his work: “If you remember the shape of your spoon at lunch, it has to be the wrong shape.” The Platonic ideal.Each time Garfield references a font, the first paragraph of that chapter is printed in that style, with a little notation off to the side.
In a seemingly unorganized book, the author gives us quick vignettes of the history of various fonts and their creators.
He jumps from one font to the next and from one technology to the next without giving us much depth.
Although the snippets of history that he does offer are interesting, it was not enough to sustain my interest throughout an entire book.Reading “Just My Type” made me feel like I was at a cocktail party stuck in a corner with someone who just happened to be an expert on the history of typesetting, fonts, and their inventors.
This book won’t tell you what is the best font to choose.
We are so familiar with these things that we tend not to notice that power — and it is most blatant use in through the advertising industry (such as in advertising for the cinema, product names for special purchases (cars and perfumes, for example) and for what is called “establishing Corporate Identity”) and even used for political campaigns.Questions of copyright, and accessibility, together with “battles” regarding appropriate or inappropriate fonts are also discussed, as well as the more esoteric aspects of pure design matters, are quickly explored and discussed.
As someone coming to this book with precious little knowledge on the subject beyond a passing familiarity with some of the more widely-used fonts out there, I found it contained just the right amount of technical detail to satisfy the curiosity of a non-expert, served up with plenty of anecdotal information and examples that made it very readable and accessible.
If, like me, you’re no expert but have ever found yourself admiring a particularly appealing typeface and wanting to know what it is, or grinding your teeth over a colleague’s inexplicable choice of font, you will probably find this one worth a go.
Read and reviewed in May 2012, just updated my review to my current ordering system.Book Information: Genre: Nonfiction, typographyRecommended for: People interested in the typography that surrounds us.My Thoughts: I find fonts fascinating; I love to use unusual fonts in personal correspondence (although I prefer Times New Roman for other uses), and I love to learn about fonts and typesetting, which leads me to read the little bit at the end of many books that tells about the font being used in it.
It has a pleasant heft and size, a good mix of text and illustrative images, and of course the font chosen for the main body of the book is a clean, readable, yet relatively uncommon one called Sabon, about which Garfield says, "It is not the most beautiful type in the world, nor the most original or arresting.
It is, however, considered one of the most readable of all book fonts, and it is one of the most historically significant."I do wish that the particular library copy I read had not been annotated by a blithering (and of course anonymous) idiot.
It would've been cool to show the full alphabet of each font that gets discussed (though maybe that'd've gotten expensive?).Wished he dove into kerning a bit more...how to tell when it's good/bad and show how often the spacing between letters varies based on the actual pairs of letters abutting one another.
Of course, I'll never forgive it for completely ruining any chance I'd ever have to simply enjoy a sign on a shop or a book cover or a restaurant menu, or any written item I chance to see around me.
The author has a wonderful writing style that I thoroughly enjoyed - which cannot be said about the narrator of the audio book, to whom I owe my deepest gratitude for forcing me to read the actual book, and SEEING all the types mentioned in it.
I wonder what possessed me to think I could simply get the audio version.
But once we were given the opportunity to use it, we took off and often overdid it, used the same typeface for everything (comic sans), or used multiple typefaces on a page rather than bothering with expressive language.
He tells us the history and distinctions between typeface and font then says don't worry about it: use typeface and font interchangeably because after all "...there are worse sins."(Bodoni is the typeface and Bold is the font.)The difference between legible and readable?
Recommended as a charming and sometimes humorous treatment of typeface history.
Somehow this manages to be a loose survey of typefaces, a typographic history, and a look at how type functions in our lives without feeling too long or too brief.
I found this a delightful read filled with wonderful examples and anecdotes as charming as they were insightful (Ever wanted to know about the origins of Comic Sans or the edgy life of Gill Sans's creator?
Or which font was destroyed by one of its creative partners deciding to throw the metal originals into a river?
Or which font Obama rode to the Oval Office?).
I REALLY did enjoy this one. Who would have thought a book all about fonts would be so exciting and interesting. It was quite well written, and kept my interest throughout. Considering how little I knew about fonts walking into this book, I can't believe how much more knowledge I've gained.
The language of letter meets the language of Art … and it’s one hell of a rave.The dustcover of “Just My Font” gets the party going.
Mind-altering drugs not required.Having been slapped in the face by the equivalent of a basket of shimmering, dancing wet flat-fish, the reader next encounters internal endpapers decorated by a carefully constructed “Periodic Table” of fonts, that were he still alive, would intrigue Dmitri Mendeleev, the ‘father’ of THE Periodic Table of the Chemical Elements.
This very readable and utterly compulsively addictive book on fonts appealed to theis reader’s inner nerd.
“Just My Font”, raises an aristocracy of fonts to life from Helvetica through to tail-less Calibri.
Considerably readable, this book is informative and inspiring regarding each font's interesting inception, ‘typographic engineer’ and impact on the printing, advertising and communicating world dating back years ago till present days.
It’s inspiring due to different font examples that help its readers decide which one should be more appropriate in what context and why.I recalled vaguely, more than a decade ago, it was advised not to send a message in capital letters.
ArialFrom the list, I can find/use only 4 (Gill Sans, Garamond, Franklin Gothic, Arial), possibly I need to upgrade the program.
I am not in this crowd, though I did have a favorite font in high school (ITC Officina Sans, mentioned on page 182) and a month ago I pondered aloud the different fonts used on Interstate signs (this topic is also covered!).
Other chapters cover topics as varied as the history of typesetting back to Gutenberg, to the ubiquity of Helvetica (did you know that Arial is a controversial Helvetica clone?), to Gotham, the font used so well by the Obama campaign (and later, ironically, by Sarah Palin).
So wide has my vision been broadened, that it is hard for me to look at the written word the same again.While in the midst of reading this book, a good friend, colleague, and book buddy of mine (with a previous career path that included graphic design) lamented that she, "fucking hates Helvetica!" To which my only logical response was, "how in the Hell could you hate...a font?" It would be disingenuous of me to say that I fully understand this aversion upon completing this book, but I believe I have come as close as I ever will.Take some time to digest Garfield's work, whether you've never had the slightest interest in typeface, or are a self confessed 'typomaniac'.
This is a fun and interesting read that is perfect for all the font nerds out there and anyone who is interested in areas such as design, marketing and IT history.I thought I had a pretty good idea about different fonts until this book opened my eyes.
There were so many fonts I'd never heard of and others that I knew without realising they had once been designed for a specific purpose before becoming mainstream.This book combined chapters on the general history of type and fonts with sections dedicated to the story behind specific fonts.
Yes, all of those fonts form the beginning of printing to the present are indeed present in Simon Garfield's JUST MY TYPE but instead of a study book of fonts, this is a commentary on the history of fonts that is tremendously entertaining as well as informative.
Garfield takes fonts by type (oops!) and discusses the reason for longevity of the most popular typefaces.
This little book provides a lot of entertaining reading, but one longs for more than a couple of pages of the fonts available,now and historically - just for quick reference and use in design.
You'd think a book entirely focused on typefaces would only interest those with a keen interest in graphic design, but no, Simon Garfield's font-filled fact-fest appeals to the everyday reader, too.
Each chapter revolves around a single topic, be it the fonts used on album art to brand a certain artist or band to the importance of legibility of the type on road signs.
And every ten/twenty pages, there's a little 'font break' - a couple of pages dedicated solely to the history and summary of a single typeface.
I couldn't put the book down with the witty flourish of many case-studies and histories.
And--as should happen with all great writing--I have learned to observe the world around me with a whole new perspective: before, I fleetingly noticed fonts and typefaces and was briefly intrigued by their appearances and characteristics; but now, I better understand the embodiments those fonts and typesets possess, why they are used, and the sheer effort and intelligence devoted to creating the multitude of our alphabet's appearances.
Typesetting truly may be the least acknowledged, yet most impactful and extensive, artform in the world...
But who would have thought that a book about fonts could be so fascinating?I like a book that makes me look at things differently and I am definitely staring at signs and notices a lot more than usual!I love the thought of 'font experts' getting all hot under the collar when they watch a film set in, say, the 1920's and observe fonts in it (on signs, menus, letters etc) that they know didn't exist until decades later.
The equivalent of a film showing a gladiator wearing a wrist watch to them I suppose.
Uma abordagem muito bem humorada sobre a tipografia, "Esse é meu tipo" faz bem em apresentar desde a história da tipografia a seus expoentes mais conhecidos, além de uma pausa aqui e ali para contar um pouco a história de determinada fonte marcante, desde Frutiger e Gill Sans a Gotham e Albertus. Uma leitura bem leve, introdutória e satisfatória. Bota um pouco de pensamento nessa história de estarmos rodeados de alfabetos que querem dizer coisas diferente se nos passar sensações distintas... e muitas vezes nem percebemos.
This book was a big disappointment to me! It barely talked about the fonts at all, or their use. More about the history of the person who created the font. I wanted it to take a look at what fonts say or imply, but it didn't go into any of that fascinating stuff. It did not answer the question, "What does your favorite font say about you?" I was just disappointed that this book did not meet my expectations.
I'm never sure how to rate nonfiction. I enjoyed this book, which is really all that counts.
Total bullshit.So the biggest benefit from this book, for me personally anyway, will be that I have one more thing to do when I'm bored, which happens a lot.It's also curious to consider type designers artists.
Like in any field, rules are meant to be broken.People will tell you not to use more than 3 fonts on a piece, but lately we've seen a stylistic rise of wall hangings with phrases spelled out in WAY more.
Napster, the thing we always come back to because it's such a case for/against piracy, worked because it was free, but also, and this is the part that people are scared to mention, because it was light years ahead of the next best way to get music.
