https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/134463.Risk_Uncertainty_and_Profit
Interesting Quote:"With uncertainty absent, man's energies are devoted altogether to doing things; it is doubtful whether intelligence itself would exist in such a situation; in a world so built that perfect knowledge was theoretically possible, it seems likely that all organic readjustments would become mechanical, all organisms automata. With uncertainty present, doing things, the actual execution of activity, becomes in a real sense a secondary part of life; the primary problem or function is deciding what to do and how to do it." -Frank Knight, Risk, Uncertainty, and Profit
Knight’s book can be hard to find, but this is some of the best original work distinguishing risk from uncertainty – the “known unknowns” versus the “unknown unknowns.” If you are interested in resilience, systems thinking, or some of the fatal flaws in many approaches to finance, this is important stuff.
Citado en  Microeconomic Theory Cap.6
Sublime
The entrepreneur, in Knight's account, is the person who is adept at exercising good judgment and effective organizational control in the face of radical uncertainty.
One of my new favorites. Tempted to dive into FHK for the next couple of weeks, but that will have to do for the time being. I rank this book up there with my all-time favorites in economics: Smith's Theory of Moral Sentiments, Menger's Principles, Bastiat's Harmonies, Mises's Liberalism and Human Action, Rothbard's Egalitarianism and Man, Economy and State, as well as Hoppe's Theory of Socialism and Capitalism and The Great Fiction.
The idea of Uncertainty put forth by Knight in this work is revolutionary in that it is perhaps one of the few times when an economist has admitted the epistemic boundaries of his profession. The concept of uncertainty reminds us that even as we develop more sophisticated tools of economic analysis, there are still areas of true uncertainty where individual judgement is important as well.
http://pro-libertate.net/20140304/230...
