https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/188090.Bliss_Other_Stories
Il piacere delle piccole coseHo iniziato a leggere (in realtà ad ascoltare, trattandosi di un audiolibro) questo libro di Katherine Mansfield assolutamente per caso, non guidato da recensioni o commenti.
"Che cosa ci volete fare se avete trent'anni e, voltando l'angolo della strada, vi sentite sopraffatti, all'improvviso, da un senso di felicità, di assoluta felicità, come se aveste d'un tratto inghiottito un pezzo lucente di quel tardo sole pomeridiano che vi bruciasse dentro, spandendo una pioggerella di scintille in ogni intima fibra, in ogni dito delle mani e dei piedi?"Una scrittura precisa e con un grande potere evocativo.
http://www.bbc.co.uk/programmes/b0671h1qRe-visiting just this one story, Mr Reginald Peacock's Day from the collection, via R4x: A singing teacher ponders the mundane nature of his married life, compared to the passion of his profession. Read by Brian Gear.
In the title story Bliss – a young woman is about to get a rude awakening from her perfect life.
She and others like her dreaming of the big time, the realities of life coming much sharper.This collection has really piqued my interest in Katherine Mansfield – so I’m sure that I will be reading more of her work at some point.
Oh god. I need to be far away from Goodreads recommendations.At least for two days.
Having already read Bliss (5 stars), Feuille d'album (3 stars) and A dill pickle (3 stars), I jumped straight to:Prelude - the Burnell family is moving; Stanley Burnell is married to Linda, they have three daughters (Isabel, Kezia, Lottie); Linda's mother Mrs Fairfield and sister Beryl live with them (4 stars)Je ne parle pas francais - Raoul, a Parisian, meets Dick the Englishman and they connect through their love of literature; Dick comes back to Paris with a woman and invites Raoul to live wi
Having already read Bliss (5 stars), Feuille d'album (3 stars) and A dill pickle (3 stars), I jumped
Sıradan insanların monotonlaşmış hayatlarından kesitlerden oluşan öyküler bazen öylesine vurucu bir değerdeydi ki, yazarın yaşadığı zamana rağmen insanın doğasını bu kadar iyi çözebilmesine hayret ettim.Katherine Mansfield'in bütün öykülerinin toplandığı kitapta öykülerin en uzunu 10 sayfayı geçmez.
Bazen yaşadıklarınızı kelimelere döken bir yazarla karşılaşırsınız ve kendinizi yalnız hissetmezsiniz ya, bu kitapta onu yaşadım.İngiltere'de yaşadığı çağın ilerisinde olan kadınların yazar olduğunu düşünüyorum.
Ve bu yüzden kendini ne kadar yalnız hissettiği de apaçık.Sevdiğim ve saygı duyduğum kadın yazarlara bir tane daha eklendiği için mutluyum, İngiliz Edebiyatı'yla ilgilenen arkadaşların okuması gerektiğini düşünüyorum.
From BBC Radio 4 Extra - Mr. Reginald Peacock's dayA singing teacher ponders the mundane nature of his married life, compared to the passion of his profession. Read by Brian Gear.http://www.bbc.co.uk/programmes/b0671h1q
Gente, mas que coisa linda. Sempre tive problemas em gostar de contos como gosto de romances e novelas, mas essa seleção da Mansfield é irretocável.
The stories in this collection do not always have a plot and some of them seem at first glance vague and insignificant, but they all build up images and impressions so that the meaning is deeply felt.
A long short story - a novella almost - about a New Zealand family moving from the town to the country.
You could say that this is because of the mores of the time but remember that Jean Rhys' stories of London's seedy demi-monde were not far off.
A bit disappointing. Bliss was good.
I'd never heard of Katherine Mansfield before getting this book in a lot of the Great Writers Library (dirt cheap, and commanding my reading over the next year or so).
It's small wonder to me, though, that a poorly educated American like myself was never introduced to her: she was a cool, independent, literate woman who wrote stories exploring the more tender sides of the human experience -- all things that fail to endear writers to the mass American audience.This book is a reprint of a collection from the '30s, containing a dozen or so tales of varying length and direction.
4 stars - I think I liked these stories even more than The Garden Party and Other Stories. Mansfield's use of color in her descriptions reminds me a bit of Willa Cather although her people are quite different. The title seems ironic since most of the stories described less than perfect relationships...
4½ stars - I think I liked these stories even more than The Garden Party and Other Stories. Mansfield's use of color in her descriptions reminds me a bit of Willa Cather although her people are quite different. The title seems ironic since most of the stories described less than perfect relationships...
Mansfield's short stories have this indescribable beauty to them, there's just something about them that brings me a really overpowering feeling of joy. The prose just made me want to weep. I'm really disappointed I didn't get around to reading any Mansfield sooner, this was amazing
He has this terrible fake self he uses to seduce his singing 'students'.
This is how he makes his living.He's terrible to his wife.
He's determined to see this pretty reasonable-seeming woman as his enemy.He comes home from a party where they all love him, and he sees his sleeping wife.
He grabs her hands.He says, "dear lady" and "I should be charmed", and the story ends.But we understand that this is his curse of fakeness descending on his own head.
It's a marvel of concision.Most of these stories are gems like that.
Short stories is not my strong suit. Still I find myself reading them in hopes of uncovering a few gems. I liked the first story best, and oddly, the last one the least. I will be looking for more by Mansfield.
Delightful, wistful stories- read wonderfully by Juliet Stevenson.
3.75
The character of Raoul was a bit of a surprise to me as for a moment I thought it was Katherine Mansfield herself (since the narration was first person and nothing at all was mentioned for quite a good few pages), I don't know why but I just had assumed so.
The metaphor of that pear tree was quite something, as was that little jab at the end -after that I sincerely detested that silver lady.The Wind Blows:I enjoyed the beginning of this story, there's a reason why stories like those Katherine Mansfield wrote are called "classics", and it can be seen in this story in particular (at least in my opinion).
I have a set of Katherine Mansfield's short stories that I remember enjoying very much 30 years ago but I haven't so much as glanced at them since until reading a review of "Bliss" recently. Blew off the dust and dived in - blimey - !The completeness of each setting, the fine brush strokes, the subtlety, the feelings! And such beautiful brevity.I am haunted particularly by "The Little Governess". (I became her for those few pages.)Wonderful.
I would like to explore more by this author. Intriguing character sketches and time period.
19 AUG 2015 - recommended by Bettie. Many thanks!
Может и ну его, этот замуж?Я не говорю по-французски (Je ne parle pas francais)Достаточно странный рассказ от лица молодого француза, который вроде как сам писатель, но денег ремеслом ему не удаётся заработать, так что он принимает подарки, тем и живёт.
Так что в конце концов он становится участником не очень приятных событий, а его возлюбленный оказывается совершенно недостойным человеком.Счастье (Bliss)Героиня абсолютно счастлива.
Правда, финал открытый, так что ещё неизвестно, как героиня себя поведёт и пострадает ли её счастье.Ветер дует (The Wind Blows)Просто зарисовка из жизни некой Матильды.
Чтобы успокоить нервы, она отправляется в любимый салон красоты, где милый парикмахер всегда понимает её и делает так, как ей нравится.
Bliss is a medium sized story, 12 pages long, that spans just one evening, as Bertha Young prepares for and hosts a dinner party.
From the first sentence, Bertha is overcome with a feeling of bliss, as if she had “swallowed a bright piece of that late afternoon sun”.
The despair at the end of the story is only made more complete by the all-consuming satisfaction Bertha feels in every aspect of her life.
I first read Bliss and Other Stories as part of a school assignment, but the complexity and variety of the topics has had me rereading it many more times since.
Katherine Mansfield'in kafasını çözmek biraz zaman alan bir süreç.
İlk bakışta olağan, sıkıcı, manasız detaylara boğulmuş öyküler yazan bir öykücü gibi geldi.
Genel olaraksa, bir gün, ansızın, "nedensiz", durduk yere mutlu olma halini, "yellenirse daha mutlu olacaktı" gibi avam ve dolaysız ifadelerle birlikte aşırı romantik üsluplar da kullanarak aktarması, bana, özgürce yazan bir yazar olduğu fikrini verdi.
Gündelik ve sıradan gibi görünürken hınzır ve gıcık olan bir öykücü.
Dili kullanım şekliyse, düşünüş hızıyla yazan bir yazar olduğu izlenimini verdi.
Virginia Woolf'un bilinçakışından farklı bir bilinçakışı var, gibi geldi.
Katherine'in bilinçakışı, Woolf'unkinden daha kapalı ve zor nüfuz edilen bir akış.
Katherine Mansfield is so brilliant at capturing such bizarre feelings that would otherwise be impossible to describe. You feel yourself emerged into her different worlds so quickly - each of them so foreign and sinister. I found myself unsettled, confused and craving more. Outstanding examples of stream of consciousness- no wonder Woolf was jealous!
Thoroughly enjoyed this little dip into the world of the depressed and depressing. Crushed dreams, broken marriages and sad endings. Perfection.
This is a beautifully read collection of some sublime short stories. I only regret that there weren't more of them!
Exceptional
Re-read after a gap of 30 years. Enjoyable pen portraits, less momentous than when I was 18, but it’s me, not them.
However, this turns out not to be a strong element, at least in this particular collection; many of the stories are set in Europe, and the only one that is obviously set in New Zealand, the opening novella called "Prelude," is far more occupied with the inner lives of the characters and their particular physical circumstances than with the setting in a wider sense.
This is in no way a drawback, only a false expectation that I had to overcome in the process of reading.The stories often end with a reversal or down-turn in the protagonist's fortunes, but so light was Mansfield's touch that this somehow did not depress me as it does with some authors.
