https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/764347.Unwind
True story.Unwind by Neal Shusterman is a novel about a world gone mad in which children between the ages of thirteen and eighteen can be legally signed over by their parents or guardians to be put through a harvest camp so that others can take their organs, tissue and blood.Abortion is also illegal but people can leave infants on other people's doorstep as a method of "storking" and thus legally handing over their responsibilities of the child.A common phrase used throughout this book is, "Someone else's problem." This encompasses the spirit of the book and is said often by adults who have had children fall temporarily into their hemisphere and require dealing with.
Holy frak-waffles Batman!! This is awesome. At first I was like:... but then I was like:... and THEN I was all like:...during that scene where they (view spoiler)[UNWOUND HIS BRAINS WHILE HE WAS AWAKE! (hide spoiler)] I still have the major heebeejeebs. I will never eat cauliflower again.Unwind will shock you. I mean, roll-you-up-in-a-carpet-and-bitch-slap-you kind of shock you. And you will love it.["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>
Reading the latest YA releases would make you think that dystopias are all about running around and snogging while hiding from the big bad government that wants to kill you for no good reason.
Unwind is a dynamic, scary story that is carried by charismatic teen characters who are at times defiant and so easy to hate, yet they prove they deserve to live just as much, if not more than any "proper" adult.Glad to say, I feel like I can safely continue recommending this novel.
Sometimes the present tense sounded awkward to me, and the frequent switching between the different points of view made it hard for me to become fully attached to all the characters, but I loved Connor, Risa and Lev.I will definitely be looking out for more of Shusterman's work.Edit: I originally rated this book four stars, but I've decided to up my rating ;).
If a book makes me think about it even months after reading it, it definitely deserves five stars!
I've been asked why I keep reading young adult books when I hate some of them. I hate some ways of preparing chicken too, but I'll eat it.This book is a reason why I keep reading young adult. It's the fried chicken of the book world. There has been a war recently. A war based on reproduction rights.On one side, people were murdering abortion doctors to protect the right to life, while on the other side people were getting pregnant just to sell their fetal tissue. And everyone was selecting their
I hate some ways of preparing chicken too, but I'll eat it.This book is a reason why I keep reading young adult.
The Bill of Life changes the way people live.
It keeps people living longer and rids the world of some "unwanted" kids.
These kids can be signed up for the unwinding for a multitude of reasons.
His mom sided with the stepfather and needed him out of the picture after that.There are also kids who are "tithes", They are born to be unwinded.
And storking's in the Bible too.""No, it isn't!""Moses," says Lev.
Problem children are signed as Unwinds by parents at their wit's end, while tithes are born and raised to be unwound.The premise didn't convince me at first.
I couldn't buy that people would sign off their children to be cut into pieces and scattered around like car parts.
The last page is equally as rewarding, so never fear!My point before, while I was still reading this, is thus: in recent YA and in general, men write better heroines than women.
What sacrifices would you make?These questions are never explicitly answered by Unwind, and this is what makes this book such a legend.
If you are wanting to get a little more of a feel of what this is before you dive in, keep reading on." The Bill of Life"The Second Civil War, also known as "The Heartland War," was a long and bloody conflict fought over a single issue.To end the war, a set of constitutional amendments known as "The Bill of Life" was passed.It satisfied both the Pro-life and the Pro-choice armies.The Bill of Life states that human life may not be touched from the moment of conception until a child reaches the age of thirteen.However, between the ages of thirteen and eighteen, a parent may choose to retroactively "abort" a child......
But his parents are fed up and sign the papers to have him “unwound” – essentially the government whisks away your child, kills them, and distributes their organs to others.
At one point, Shusterman makes a lame attempt to suggest advancement by displaying iPods at an antique store.
Even if all the above is outside the scope of what Shusterman wanted to accomplish, I still feel entitled to more about who gets the organs from the unwound.
Also the surgeons can remove and transplant an arm without complications, but don’t bother to remove the tattoos?
I just don’t see most organ recipients being satisfied with tattooed replacements.
It’s about ethical issues, speculative future, war, abortion, death, consciousness, human thinking and the never ending issue of life.
Now I realize, I struggled to figure it out because the author was careful to write, with detail and precision, both sides to the story.
We can laugh and shrug off those kind of questions, but, in this day and age, I think it’s a real thing.
And if you think this book is based entirely on speculation: you’re wrong.
Between all that, there was no way I could avoid some serious thinking.That’s what I love about this book.
Still disturbingly coolThis book is disturbing and just holy crow! These people think it's okay to unwind their children if they don't want them or if they are bad kids. And what is unwinding you ask? It's where they take all of your body parts, EVERY SINGLE ONE, and use them for other people. AND your body parts are still a part of you, but only your brain can still think inside of another body but the parts can still do things the other kid did, like playing an instrument etc. --->EXCERPT&l
These people think it's okay to unwind their children if they don't want them or if they are bad kids.
AND your body parts are still a part of you, but only your brain can still think inside of another body but the parts can still do things the other kid did, like playing an instrument etc.
And Lev was a tithe to God. I still can't get over some of the stuff I read in this book.
I did like the Admiral, he did a lot to help these kids because he and his ex-wife made the mistake of unwinding their child.
Is forced organ donation really that far outside of what happens today?Unwind is a fast-paced YA novel dealing with the ethics of what happens to unwanted children and the consequences.
Shusterman introduce such concepts as unwinding, storking (abandoning unwanted children on doorsteps), and tithing (people raised specifically to be unwound.) Chilling, yes?The characters drive the story forward at a cheetah's pace.
Lev and Risa, while important, don't shine as much as the approaching conflict between Connor and Roland.
Much like The Handmaid's Tale, the world seemed alien at first glance but really isn't that far removed from our own, making it all the more chilling.
I can already see Alex Pettyfer as Connor, Vanessa Hudgens as Risa, and some precociously doughy bespectacled kid as Lev.This story takes place in a hypothetical United States where a long, brutal war between pro-life supporters and pro-choice supporters has been put to rest by a law that allows parents to “retroactively abort” their children from ages 13-17, by essentially having them sent to “harvest camps” where they are dissected and every part of them is used for transplantation.
I googled "best dystopian novels of all time in the world ever" or something along those lines (I'm not the best googler in the world) and HuffPo was one of the links I clicked on, and this book was on the list, and I recognized the cover, and I was a little skeptical but read some reviews, and one thing led to another, yada yada yada...And this was a really thrilling, thought-provoking piece of young adult dystopian literature that really hooked me from the beginning.
And now I'm going to explain to you how this book felt like a roller coaster.
Pro-life and Pro-choice fight a civil war and the only way to satisfy both armies is the agreement that no abortions take place but from the ages of thirteen to eighteen any child can be unwound and his or her divided body and soul be used as organ donation?
Pro-choice advocates could make the claim that Shusterman is defending their cause by showing all the unwanted children that would come from anti-abortion laws.
Pro-life advocates could make the claim that Shusterman is defending their cause by showing how sick the destruction of children is as parents turn a blind eye to the specifics of the practice just because they selfishly don't want to deal with a child anymore.
4.5⭐How does Neal Schusterman keep coming up with these wacky AF, genius yet terrifying concepts that somehow don’t seem that far-fetched?I hate dystopian novels, and try to avoid them like the plague.This is my fourth book by Neal Shusterman and I never knew I could enjoy reading this genre until I discovered this brilliant man. What more could you really say about an author who’s made you reevaluate your entire decision? I am in awe.
4.5⭐️How does Neal Schusterman keep coming up with these wacky AF, genius yet terrifying concepts that somehow don’t seem that far-fetched?I hate dystopian novels, and try to avoid them like the plague.This is my fourth book by Neal Shusterman and I never knew I could enjoy reading this genre until I discovered this brilliant man. What more could you really say about an author who’s made you reevaluate your entire decision? I am in awe.
on the one hand, i got completely sucked into the story, and i love the characters (especially lev), and i thought it was one of the rare dystopian YA books that actually took the time to world-build enough so that its characters made sense in the world they were given.
(hide spoiler)]overall, i thought it was a great read, and i appreciated the care that went into writing it, even though it is one of those books you have to accept as-is, without going over it with a hyper-critical eye.
Before I go into my long review, I wanted to just mention that this book had one of the most nightmarish and horific scenes that I have ever read in my life.
I think a big message of this book is that euphamisms can be used as propaganda.
The message sometimes seemed to me that if you made abortion illegal, then the population would explode and children would be neglected and devalued to the point that people would sell their teenage children to organ harvesters because they needed the money or the kids were too inconvenient or annoying.
(Belief in this is one of the reasons I kept trying and wanting to like Unwind.) It just takes the proper balance of realism and "magic." Shusterman technically knows this.
I feel that way about Unwind when it comes to adults reading it—many of whom, I should note, disagree with me about this book having an anti-abortion message.
Final rating: 6/5 stars Unwind by ~graysideThis book deserves more than just 6 stars. It deserves 10! This is my ultimate fav young adult and it was one of the most amazing and emotional reads. It's a roller coaster of emotions and don't read it if you don't wish for your heart to shatter, or if you don't wish for your heart to be cut out. Because that's how i felt while reading this. But - in every darkness, there is light, and even if this book might seem quite grim, it was balanced. Because i
It's told from Connor, Lisa and Lev point of view in third person and there were povs which were told by different people as well.In the future, there is no need for medicines.
To be unwounded means to be separated into parts - every single part of the body - and having it donated to other people.
This story follows three teenagers: Connor, Risa and Lev. They are all to be unwound, one of them went out of control, one has no other choice, and one was getting ready for it whole life.
THAT SCENE made me clutch my blankie. *sobs*
Unwind (Unwind #1), Neal ShustermanUnwind is a 2007 science fiction novel by young adult literature author Neal Shusterman.تاریخ نخستین خوانش: روز دوم ماه سپتامبر سال 2016 میلادیعنوان: مجموعه گسسته: کتاب اول گسسته؛ نویسنده: نیل شاسترمن (شوسترمن)؛ مترجم: سیاوش صمیمی فرد؛ تهران، آذرباد، 1393؛ در 409 ص؛ شابک: 9786006225425؛ موضوع: داستانهای خیال انگیز برای کودکان از نویسندگان انگلیسی - سده 21 مدومین جنگ داخلی، بر سر حق و حقوق زاد و ولد شکل گرفت. نتیجه ی جنگ این شد: زندگی از لحظه ی شکلگیری جنین تا س
نتیجه‌ ی جنگ این شد: زندگی از لحظه‌ ی شکل‌گیری جنین تا سن سیزده سالگی، حق هر انسانی است.
اما از سیزده سالگی تا هیجده سالگی، این حق به والدین‌شان واگذار می‌شود، و آن‌ها این اجازه را دارند که فرزندشان را گسسته کنند، بدین صورت که: تمام اعضای بدنش، به کسانی که نیازمندند، پیوند زده می‌شود، به طوری که زندگی‌ اش در اصل به پایان نرسد.
This was super fast paced with likable characters! This dystopian world is one of the creepiest I have read! I received a copy of this book from a Quarterly Literary Box https://quarterly.co/products/literar... Full review on my blog https://literarydust.wordpress.com/20...
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/ “What does it take to unwind the unwanted? It takes twelve surgeons, in teams of two, rotating in and out as their medical specialty is needed. It takes nine surgical assistants and four nurses. It takes three hours.”  If you are at all familiar with my reviews, you’re probably well aware that I’m a “big meany” when it comes to doling out 1 Stars and super stingy when it comes to granting 5s. I’m here to tell you that Unwind knocked m
Unwind is the story of how unfortunate coincidence leads to Connor, Risa and Lev meeting and their attempt to save themselves from certain fate.
But by the time it turns into a war, the issue doesn’t matter anymore, because now it’s about one thing and one thing only: how much each side hates the other.”
Have no fear – you’ll find out everything you never wanted to know about unwinding.And the best part of it all (well, for me at least) – YOU DON’T HAVE TO READ THE OTHER BOOKS IN THE SERIES!!!!
Reto #5 Pop Sugar 2017: Un libro escrito por una persona de color ¡Brutal! Una distopía con una premisa terrible: una sociedad futurista en que la ley protege la vida hasta los 13 años, castigando fuertemente el aborto, pero que permite que entre los 13 y 18 años los jóvenes puedan ser desconectados. A pesar de toda la propaganda del sistema, que enmascara esta desconexión como una nueva forma de existencia –con un propósito elevado para adolescentes conflictivos–, no es más que un “troceado” d
Por supuesto, detrás de todo, lo que prima son los intereses económicos.Más aberrante aún es que la desconexión no es una sentencia del sistema, sino que es decisión de los propios padres o tutores de los jóvenes, quienes tienen la autoridad de firmar la orden de desconexión, para lo que, además, no es necesario que haya algún motivo.
Uno de los capítulos, en los que se describe el proceso de desconexión de uno de los personajes, es probablemente lo más perturbador que he leído en mucho tiempo.Muy, pero muy recomendable.
The two groups reach a compromise called "The Bill of Life" that states that nothing about a child can be decided until they reach the age of thirteen, and at which the child's parents can put the child up to be "unwound".
Their parents/state just decided they weren't worth the trouble or weren't good enough and they sign them up to go to a harvest camp....
Once you get past the WTH did I just read section the story will have you returning to the edge of your seat.There are two scenes in this book that stand out above the rest.
It's been eight years since I read this book for the first time (damn, that makes me feel old).
In my original review, I stated that this story would "haunt me forever," and I was definitely right about that.
Old review under the cut.
----------(view spoiler)[Old review (6/11/08):To put it simply, I loved this book!
Not only is it a good adventure story, but it really makes the reader think about what life means.
Thrilling, disturbing, and unforgettable, the story of Unwind will definitely haunt me forever.
Actual Rating: 3.5 StarsNot a bad first book!RTC.
The sad answer is, no, I can’t.However, I probably would have found the whole scenario more believable if Unwinding had in fact been more or less common, but still illegal.At one point Connor says that he always tried to make people believe that he was dangerous, which got me thinking, if it were common knowledge that troublemakers tend to be shipped off to harvest camp would kids really try to convince others that they’re dangerous?
You could probably argue that Connor believed his parents would never ever do such a thing but still, I found this a tad bit unbelievable.The explanation for the unwinding was also something I found a little unsatisfactory.(view spoiler)[Then we proposed the idea of Unwinding, which would terminate unwanted without actually ending their lives.
It’s impossible to understand other people.
It’s impossible to understand ourselves most of the time.At the very beginning, I honestly wasn’t buying the story.
I just couldn’t understand parents who would get rid of their child and celebrate by going on a cruise.
And I’m not saying we should try to understand the society Shusterman created – I’m claiming the exact opposite.
It is impossible for us to objectively look at any moment in time, including the present.
I actually think so many POV’s were necessary – they allowed us to fully understand the numbness of the society.
“In a perfect world everything would be either black or white, right or wrong, and everyone would know the difference. But this isn't a perfect world. The problem is people who think it is.”  In a dystopian world where children after they reach the age of thirteen, they find themselves in the peril of getting unwound, Connor, Risa & Lev are coming face to face with that very same danger. The parents of every child decide whether one will get unwound or live. What unwinding is?Pro-lifers and
In a dystopian world where children after they reach the age of thirteen, they find themselves in the peril of getting unwound, Connor, Risa & Lev are coming face to face with that very same danger.
That legislation clearly states that abortions are no more and if a parent wishes to abort their child they have to wait until their unwanted child reaches the age of thirteen.
The process of aborting a child after they reach the age of thirteen is called unwinding.
But every unwanted child gets to leave on through their organs.
