https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/115998.Caesar_and_Christ
The Story of Civilization, Part III: Caesar and Christ (The Story of Civilization #3), Will Durant, Ariel Durant (Editor)تاریخ نخستین خوانش: سال 1993 میلادیعنوان: تاریخ تمدن مجلد سوم قیصر و مسیح؛ نویسنده: ویل دورانت؛ آریل دورانت؛ مترجمها: حمید عنایت: کتابهای اوّل و دوّم ؛ پرویز داریوش: کتاب سوّم ؛ علی اصغر سروش: کتابهای چهارم و پنجم؛ سرویراستار: محمود مصاحب؛ ویراستاران: داریوش آشوری؛ پرویز داریوش؛ محمود عبادیان؛ خشایار دیهیمی تهران، سازمان انتشارات؛ 1370؛ در 930 ص؛ فهرست مجلد سوم تاریخ تمدن: مقد

Meanwhile, Durant—who would rather sing the praises of Virgil’s poetry than narrate a martial campaign—does his best to compress all this into as few pages as possible, freeing him to do what he does best: to describe the arts and the philosophies of the past.You can almost hear Durant breathe a sigh of relief whenever he ends a section on political history and switches to his mini-biographies of writers, poets, sculptors, and thinkers.
جلد اول فقطمورد قبول بودخوندنش حوصله سر بر هست زیادی به توصیفات تکراری پرداخته
Volume III, "Caesar and Christ," of Durant's Story of Civilization is, as were Volumes I and II, another impressive feat.
Each volume suffers only, perhaps, from too much detail that can obscure his story and the lessons of history, although the mountain of information is good for those who want to dig into particular aspects of this historical period.
Durant said once that the best prediction of the future is the past.
That past, as this volume shows, is not pretty.
"Caesar and Christ" represents our evolutionary past, but Durant's history is also about how much of our future lies in our past.
عشت الأشهر الثلاثة الماضية مع ملحمة من أعظم الملاحم الإنسانية ..
في الفترة الواقعة مابين 500 ماقبل الميلاد وحتى 600 للميلاد تقريباً قامت الحضارة الرومانية ..
في القرون العشرة هذه رويت قصة البشرية بأكملها وما يحدث الآن إن هو إلا بتكرار لها وإن تغير الممثلون ..
تعرفت عن قرب على يوليوس قيصر ونيرون وكاليجولا ..
صار عندي فكرة عن موقع سوريا الاستراتيجي في تلك الفترات كما هي اليوم ..
أيقنت أن النفس البشرية هي هي ذاتها سواء ارتدت ثوباً رومانياً وصندلاً أم طقماً عصرياً ..
بجنونها ودسائسها وخطاياها ..
وشقائها ..
قصة الحضارة هي قصتنا أيها السادة ..
وأنا بها مفتونة ..
So much info packed into this book it's amazing, it gave me a completely new perspective on Rome, what Rome did and how it progresses through it's existence. Highly recommended for all.
None of Durant's books are an easy read.
(672 pages sans notes)I heartily endorse this book for those who love history.
The detail is unsurpassed, the reason solid and the depth of documentation and validation is beyond any other historian's work I have read to date.This particular tome describes the very start of the Roman Empire, proceeds through the all of the Caesars / Emperors, then intertwines the history of Judaism and finally the impact on both with the appearance of Christ.This is the best single source I could recommend concerning these three impassables with the residuals and legacies they left to humanity.
Not much Christ in here - not much Caesar, either, in comparison to the whole sweep of Roman history.
He does so in an earnest, humane, and often poetic voice.
Though his Catholic intuition of fallen human nature restrains him from the fellow-traveller excesses of his peers (the Fabians, Bertrand Russell), Durant still sees proto-socialism and proto-communism everywhere in the classic world.
And if that same Catholic background restrained him from Wellsian materialistic reductionism, Durant is still enough of a skeptic that he hardly considers the possibility of Christ's deity or Scripture's inspiration.I don't think I'd turn a young child loose with Durant, but I've grown fond of him.
Caesar and Christ, which I have been reading off and on for three years, is quite a bit more about Caesar and Rome than it is about Jesus Christ and the beginnings of Christianity but there is good reason for that.Early on in this volume on page 56 Durant lays out his thesis for the book: "The evolution of customs, morals, and ideas produced in one age the Stoic Cato, in a later age the Epicurean Nero, and at last transformed the Roman Empire into the Roman Church." I now understand in great detail how all of that came about.The history of how a crossroads town called Rome became the Roman Empire reveals several aspects of the modern Western world.

Durant never fails to amaze me with his historical accounts and superb use of language.I wish he elaborated more on the invasion of Rome by thr Visgoths and the Vandals. Duranta argues that Zenobia was led in gold chains to Aurelian in Roma, while other historians claimed she commited suicide with dignity.
Durant follows “The Life of Greece” with this history of ancient Rome. I am again struck that one man can write with such a combination of charm, enthusiasm, and erudition. He also has a sense of humor: the chapter titled “Roman Law” has an asterisk in the heading and a footnote that warns: “This chapter will be of no use to lawyers, and of no interest to others.”
I purchased the Story of Civilization series from The Book of the Month Club, their come-on deal, while living at seminary in Manhattan.
Twelve years later I finally got around to reading them, mostly as bedtime books over the course of several months.
As a whole, the work is excellent, its weakest element being the first, and oldest, volume on "our Oriental heritage." Other than this, the rest of the series doesn't pretend to display anything but a western perspective.Caesar and Christ was, for me, one of the more entertaining volumes, my background being pretty strong as regards both classical and biblical history.
This volume is to be recommended in part because it clearly links the two stories, so often otherwise treated separately.

I bought his entire set at a used book sale, sans the last volume (which had not yet been read) and I'm making my way through them.
"Life’s final tragedy is unwilling continuance—to outlive one’s self and be forbidden to die" he says of Augustus, alone and friendless in old age, surrounded by scheming family and an adulterous daughter (not to mention her disreputable friends like Ovid the poet); he also is writing to you 70 years in the future, contemplating old age.
It's also full of great stories of Caesar, Cleopatra, Jesus and his apostles, the early martyrs, the various pagans, Greeks, Egyptians, Syrians, Gauls, Germans, the whole cast of characters spanning a thousand years.
The Durants were masters at compiling a very in-depth history of each period that they wrote about. I learn so much from their writing. Fantastic.
I spent a long time reading this book. Its kinda like a fruitcake, very rich, dense, and requires a certain appetite. Extremely detailed view of the roman empire.
How enchanting the history sounds under the touch of his pen.
Darius I, in the Behistun inscription (521 b.c.), named Armenia among the satrapies of Persia; later it gave a nominal allegiance to the Seleucids and then alternately to Parthia and Rome; but its remoteness allowed it a prac- tical independence.
1 Under Caesar, Augustus, and Nero Armenia acknowledged the suzerainty of Rome, and under Trajan it was for a time a Roman province; nevertheless, its culture was Iranian, and its usual orientation was toward Parthia.https://archive.org/details/TheStoryO...
Interesting approach to ask not why Rome fell, but how it rose and remained in power and influenced the future of civilization, and then to ask the same question of the rise and influence of Christ.
Hundreds of interesting facts every chapter, but I learned that SPQR stood for Senatus Populusaque Romanus - initially the Roman upper class, then broadening over time.Rome developed the first written form of a legal structure - Durant calls it "Rome's most signal achievement and her greatest contribution to civilization.""Rome had completed the fatal cycle known to Plato and to us: monarchy, aristocracy, oligarchic exploitation, democracy, revolutionary chaos, dictatorship.
Rome, "made the desert blossom with civilization, and atoned for its sins with the miracle of a lasting peace.
This is a readable survey, which gives particular attention to literature and philosophy.The 1930s, when Will Durant wrote this book, filter through and weaken it.
Here, the normally rational historian apologetically suggested that Jesus's great acts of healing might be due to a combination of positive attitudes by the healed and 'his unusual psychic powers.' (XXVI.IV) As I have learned from the history of science fiction, belief in the pseudo-science of psi-powers peaked in the mid-20th century, and Mr. Durant seems to have been susceptible to that trend.
This volume provides a wonderful background to the period. Durant combined social, political, literary, artistic, and military history in all his volumes in The Story of Civilization.His atheistic views of Christ and Christianity were not appreciated by this reader, but when one understands how confused he was in his personal belief system, no more can be expected. He was raised a Catholic, studied for the priesthood, and then disavowed God. Yet, as his autobiography indicates, he prayed in difficult times.
A nice overview of the history of the Roman empire, also with a section giving an overview of the history of early Christianity. The writing is a little old-fashioned, and the scope of the history being covered requires that the book can't go into a high level of detail on every topic; but there's a lot of good information in here.
The fourth volume of this series for me (not in chronological order). If you have read any of the other books then you will know what to expect.The prose style is not difficult for anyone that is a confirmed reader but Durant's academic vocabulary intrudes on occasion. I would suggest in depth studies of particular areas of interest rather than such an inclusive history.
it became one of my favorite books!too much information to go through.for me the best chapters and parts are the connection of east and westand rule of Egypt and Syria in the Empire.Ceaser's War, Judea under the Empire and the Christ.
I like the structure of the book because it gave me a sense for how this story began and developed, and I like how the histories of the individuals blend with the histories of the events. A great and interesting read.
Yus. Finally
One of the most in depth reviews of ancient Rome.
Tremendous historical overview with great clarity and depth. Amazing accomplishment
Truly Classic History by one of the finest historians ever –read after Dan Carlin's recommendation.
What a fascinating book! I can't wait to start Volume 4!
