https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1816960.Vulpes_the_Red_Fox
HAPPY BIRTHDAY GREG!!!a review for greg!!!this is a wonderful little book; part of jean craighead george's american woodland tale series, which are cute little illustrated chapter books about animals in the wild and the things that they do.
while we are exposed to the inner thoughts of vulpes, he is, thankfully not a fox that talks, so there is a semblance of realism here.
vulpes doesn't sit around yearning for things or trying to make friends with the human characters or anything.
but most importantly, there is a scene in which vulpes hunts for food under the snow.
Not a moment in time, but an era before urban and suburban development all but destroyed the kind of wooded land where many fables are born.This is one of those books that doesn't fall neatly into my idea of "great fiction." Not only does it walksa dubious line between anthropomorphizing fiction about animals and narrative non-fiction about woodland areas, but there were also moments where I thought, "Oh no, this is dangerously close to tacky" or "oh no!
George centered her life around writing and nature."In the end, I think it is an important book, both for drawing us into the vibrant ecosystems and experiencing it just as it is being destroyed in the name of development.
Liked it a lot. Okay four stars might be a bit over the top, but (for me) it's worth more than three stars, so there.The book is all about Vulpes, the Red Fox, as you follow him on his adventures from the moment he's born as a cub.Small warning: there are some really sad moments, so it might not be suitable for really young readers.Spoken dialogue is strictly by humans; the animals do not talk (but of course they do interact through smell, sounds etc). Gives quite a realistic feeling to it.
This book was great, but sad... very sad. It was about courage and being different, and so much more. I also wish it had a different and better ending, Vulpes was such a great character. The hunter was a good character, but I despise him for what he did to Vulpes.
IF YOU LIKED THIS TRY...        Could only have been written decades ago the way it unapologetically honors the hunter and hunted in the same breath. So good for that reason.
I really loved this book as a child. It was the first book that I sat down and read in one sitting on my own. It also inspired my love of stories from the point of view of animals. It was also the first story where I was truly shocked by the ending. I would definitely recommend this book.
Phenomenal nature storyBy Charles van Buren on October 3, 2018Format: Kindle EditionI got this book for our 9 year old daughter without having any previous knowledge of or experience with Jean Craighead George.
This is a phenomenal book about nature and of course the fox in particular.
If that bothers you, you should probably avoid this book.Our daughter loves wolves, foxes, anything which resembles a dog.
Naturally she loved Vulpes and accepted the ending with no real trouble.We purchased and read the Kindle version of the Open Roads Media edition of this book
While I remember it being well-written with charmingly minimalist illustrations, I made the mistake of flipping ahead to the ending. Thus, George has the rare honor of scarring my childhood self AND creating a character I absolutely despise. (view spoiler)[For once, I'd like to read a book where the hunter dies. (hide spoiler)]
Vulpes is a fox, and he loves to get hunted. He always leads the hunters around the forest, and he gets away easily. But there is one hunter who is really good at catching, and he has a gun.This book is great! You have got to read it. I like all of it except at the end, because it is sad.
I love, LOVE this book! It's in my top 10 and I remember it fondly from when I was younger.
Picked up this book after reading "Pax" by Sara Pennypacker.
While I loved the initial story of Vulpes the Red Fox (and the descriptions of the forest), I found the book to be a real drag.
I ended up setting it down and reading two other books (finishing one) before picking this one back up.
Detailed descriptions of the forest are great, but there was way too much, it seemed like filler.
The entire purpose of the book was to tell the story of a clever fox that could never be caught.
He's caught at the end of an incredibly dull story.
Each was intent on securing his own food or prey.
This was the normal cycle of the wild.
Hunters and hunted, food or prey.
Those best able to cope with the world they lived in and satisfy their simple demands, survived."For the present, Vulpes was the hunter; perhaps in the morning he would become the hunted."Kindle location 1642-1646"A heavy blanket of snow dampened all sounds.
No leaves were free to rattle across the woodland floor.
The thick white cloak made grotesque figures that stood motionless on the woodland floor.
This was the woodland of the wild.
At night the woods became a primeval forest."Kindle location 1649-1655
This book is for slightly older readers. Younger might have a hard time with the hunting aspect, as we do spend a bit of time with the hunters.I loved how we get to know everything about Vulpes without needing to have him 'talk'. Even when he was with his mate, there was no verbal communication between them.I liked the reoccurring animals that showed up now and again.Book does get a bit long, but the flow is very good and the pages sail by.
Great nature-themed story. Follows Vulpes, the Red Fox from birth in his den to exploring the world on wobbly little fox legs, to his interaction with humans and hunting. Very well done...author George writes as if she's actually inside the fox's head!Just finished...WARNING: Sad ending. I was quite surprised at author George...all in all, still a good book.
This is just the kind of story I liked when I was a kid. It was like going back to my childhood. Interesting story with beautiful illustrations. Just makes me dislike people who kill for the kill all the more...
My favorite book of all time... I just wish the last chapter wasn't the last chapter. Just like "My Side of the Mountain," the last chapter ruins the book. So, I always stop at the second-to-last chapter!!
Vuples the Red Fox was a great example of 3rd person - with a fox. The twist at the end thoroughly surprised me and its amazing how George made this book to where you want Vulpes to live and not the hunters, really!
its a good book
THIS BOOK SUCKS LOLIPOPS, TOO
I pretty much love everything I've read by this author, and I love Vulpes!
All told from the point of view of the fox - interesting, but I don't think kids will find this a gripping read.
I remember reading this in grade school. I loved it because I only read books about animals. Its a great story for any age
It was everything you wanted to see in a fiction for a young charismatic fox! To top it off. the ending was real. It was a great read, and I will always remember this book.
Good book for those just getting into reading. Easy read and good plot for younger readers.
Just so cute! Sad as well!
I did really like this book except for the end
