https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1971304.City_of_Thieves
Although it is interesting to observe how people think people thought in the past, it can be a little too un-modern and sometimes boring, like reading "Moby Dick" or some other great, but somewhat over the top book.
This is how life and relationships really work and the author has been able to convey these experiences in a way that makes us relive similar things in our lives as older kids taught us about what really goes on in the adult world and we're half thinking it's a lie and half believing it, yet shaking our heads.
3. Because the story moves fast and is more about relationships and internal observations, you would think that the history of the time is secondary.
”The loneliest sound in the world is other people making love.”As Lev soon finds out.The reason they are still alive is there is a Colonel who needs a dozen eggs.
Need, such an interesting concept when for most of the city twelve eggs represent twelve days with a meal.
Peter Paul van Rubens, detail from 'The Disembarkation at Marseille' .Lev hasn’t seen a woman in a long time that he didn’t have to mentally add weight to her figure and her face to determine if she used to be pretty.
The plot device of surreal "forced" shopping expedition to track down a dozen eggs against the backdrop of the horrific Siege of St. Petersburg was a wonderful vehicle to spotlight the everyday struggles of life during the longest and most destructive siege in the history of modern warfare.All signs point to a love connection.
I think being actively vested in the characters and being held captive by the sense of place created by Benioff is vital to a genuine enjoyment of this story.
Still, there were flashes of engagement for me that left me breathless and cemented the fact that I would at least "like" this story: ** The scene with the cannibals had me duct-taped to my seat.
This is what happens during war: people will do anything to survive -from murder to stealing, to going on exhaustive food hunts.
Two soviet thieves, Lev and Kolya are captured and thrown into the same cell.
However, instead of death, they are given a 4 day reprieve with a mission to find a dozen eggs for a wedding cake for a colonel's daughter.
This is their mission and the wild egg hunt they go on.
Writing so palatable and simplistic yet rich in texture, it was a pleasure to read.
The harshness of life in Leningrad is shown well, and the brutalities and absurdities of war (where else would two boys be sent on such a quest?) are on full display, with several brilliant set pieces which are bound to affect any reader - although the novel might at first glance seem to be adressed to young adults, the author does not shy away from the violence, of which there is a fair amount - some of it quite graphic and really effective.
Sometimes you’re so damned entertained by a book that you act like a sailor on leave and say, “Ah, what the hell!” Sometimes you’re so amused by the characters that you see that suspension bridge of disbelief and you cross it -- cheerfully, yet.This is the case with David Benioff’s oddly mesmerizing historical foray, CITY OF THIEVES.
Coming-of-age fans will like it because the protagonist, a tough but runty Russian Jew who is only 17, will worm his way into the apple core of your heart.
A terrific book that proves you don't have to write 700 or 800 pages to have real depth. I'm fascinated by how Benioff managed to describe the characters enduring terrible hardship and the worst of one of the most brutal battles in history, but the book doesn't read as grim or overly depressing. That's not to say that there isn't real drama, horror and sadness, but the natural humor of characters keep it from being just another book about the horrors of war.
It’s all about the quest.When I read books, I like to do a little research about the author, time period, the book itself, etc.
It takes place in the near future, has nothing to do with World War II era Leningrad, and from what I’ve watched bears no resemblance to the book.It’s all about the quest.In the book, the quest is to obtain a dozen eggs for a NKVD Colonel, so his daughter can have a wedding cake.
Zeus, bless you!”“There’s a den of mutant drug fiends about a mile outside of town.
But in the end, it’s all about the quest.
The book is written as a retelling by the author of his Grandfather's early life, more specifically "one week in 1942, the first week of the year, the week he met my grandmother, made his best friend and killed two Germans." During that week the Grandfather, Lev, was just 17 years old and living in Leningrad which was enduring the Nazi siege of 1942.
Together they set out on a ridiculous quest and witness many of the awful atrocities that occurred during that war.The characters of Lev and Kolya are what makes this book.
'City Of Thieves' is a rare book, one that fires on all cylinders and almost never missteps.
Stories often have their strengths and their weaknesses when all is said and done.
In short, most books are a balancing act.
Benioff's third offering is balanced well beyond the average book.
There are no pros and cons, no strengths to rely on.
That’s pretty much all you need to know.
To say any more would be to give it away, but City Of Thieves should be required reading for every fan of fiction.
See what other books stuck with me...
The Nazis have invaded Leningrad and Lev Beniov has been arrested and thrown in a cell with a slightly older and more experienced deserter named Kolya.
The men are tasked with finding eggs for a powerful Soviet colonel instead of facing the firing squad.Thus, begins Lev and Kolya's journey through the rough and extremely dangerous streets of Leningrad.
There they find starving people willing to do the unimaginable to survive.
People are willing to go to extremes to survive and prove that they are stronger than they look and braver than they think.See more of my reviews at www.openbookpost.com
"There is a place beyond hunger, beyond fatigue, where time no longer seems to move and the body’s misery no longer seems fully your own."  City of Thieves  was an amazing book! If I wasn't juggling so many other books, I would have easily finished it in a day or two. The World Wars are definite areas of interest for me, but I am always fascinated by the differing perspectives and experiences of individuals depending what country they lived in. This book explores the 900-day Siege of Leningrad
If I wasn't juggling so many other books, I would have easily finished it in a day or two.
This book explores the 900-day Siege of Leningrad from the eyes of Lev, a seventeen-year-old Jewish boy living on his own soon after his family flees the city.
He contrasted the seriousness of Lev's personality, and the cocky humorous one of Kolya's, to capture the "Russian experience"–a history of tragedy and sadness told with sardonic wit.
Books like these really bring history to life.P.S. This would make an amazing (and probably R-rated) film.
It's a World War II caper, everybody!I highly enjoyed this novel set during the Siege of Leningrad, even though I had just been complaining to my book club friends that I was sick of reading books set during WWII.
I liked that Kolya was obsessed with Russian literature, and loved to quote from a novel that Lev had never heard of (another long story).
I liked how Lev grew up during the story, and how his love of chess helped them in their journey.
I liked how rich the writing was, and how reading this book made me feel the coldness and the hunger and the fear of the siege.
Omg. May, 2018 This got nominated AGAIN for one of my book clubs, so yes, I did the audio for the fourth total time through this.
If you know anybody who hasn't read this, buy it for them.---------------------------------------------When you’ve read a book THREE times, that’s a pretty decent barometer of one’s love level!
Im founding a 2nd book club as of next month & wanted to kick it off with an easy read that includes laughter amidst fear, historical curiosities you've never heard of, and deep friendship.
"I was half asleep but I smiled. In spite of all his irritating qualities, I couldn't help liking a man who despised a fictional character with such passion.""There isn't any good news. Just because there's bad news doesn't mean there's good news, too."   I loved this book. So much. In fact, I'm in real danger of descending into embarrassing fangirl babble and I really don't want to put you through that. This book deserves so much more than my barely coherent praise I want to heap on top of its
In spite of all his irritating qualities, I couldn't help liking a man who despised a fictional character with such passion.""There isn't any good news.
Strangers to one another when the story begins, Lev and Kolya will have just one week filled with peril, misadventure, terror, laughter and tears to forge a bond that normally would take decades.
I laughed many, many times at Kolya's never-ending antics and stream of profanities, his perpetual teasing of Lev and his insatiable lusty appetites even in the face of war and death.
::sob::  (hide spoiler)]Adding to the utter enjoyment of this book was having it read aloud by actor Ron Perlman.
Benioff is able to bring to life his grandfather's story with enough playful fudging of the facts (as per his grandfather's request) that it blurs the line between fiction and nonfiction, but reads most like a stunning novel.City of Thieves introduces the reader to 17 year-old narrator Lev Beniov, a jewish man living in Leningrad during the Nazi siege.
This book sat on my shelf and I referred to it as "the one by the guy who's the show-runner for Game of Thrones." Unfortunately, this generalization does Benioff a great disservice as he realizes his vision and characters with readable, strong prose, and superb dialogue.
This book made me laugh, it made me cry, it made me feel.
It is a book about friendship during the worst of times.
It is my favorite book so far this year.
The writing is fabulous!"Firelight shone through the mullioned windows, warm and buttery, spilling onto the snow in front of the house.
Black smoke plumed from the chimney, barely visible as a curling smudge against the dark blue sky.
It looked like the most inviting house ever built, the country residence of the emperor's favorite general, heated and well stocked for Christmas with everyone's favorite smoked meats and pastries."I highly recommend this book!
The siege lasted from September 1941 to January 1944 and it was the aim of the invading armies to force surrender by bombing the city and by, essentially, starving its population to death.
The most heart wrenching assertion I read (and I have no idea of the veracity of this claim) is that 4000 people in the city starved to death on Christmas Day 1941.
The task is a seemingly impossible one but the pair set off in search of the eggs and in the course of the next few days the true horror of life in this starved city is brought to life.
Here, inspired by his Russian grandfather's murky experiences during the siege of Leningrad during World War II, he creates a captivating story of adventure, hope, survival, and humor in a tautly effective short novel.The brutal siege setting is quickly established in the opening chapter, and when the corpse of a German pilot lands near his apartment, teenage Lev Beniov and his friends quickly rush out to scavenge whatever food they can from the body.
Eventually, it takes them out of the city into the German-occupied countryside, where they get embroiled with a band of partisans intent on killing the commander of an Einsatzgruppen.
Sono molto felice di aver letto questo libro e sono grata a tutti coloro che hanno scritto commenti che mi hanno convinta a leggerlo (Grazia, Nood-Lesse, Gattalucy, Marika, Ubik...).È un racconto semplice, drammatico e ironico, tenero e crudele.
E tu sei lì come fossi ad ascoltare i racconti di guerra del tuo vecchio nonno.
In ogni attimo vissuto da Lev e Kolja, in ogni paura, in ogni piccola gioia, in ogni dolore, in ogni passo nella neve, in ogni sibilo di pallottola o raffica di mitraglia, in ogni incontro, in ogni risata, in ogni sguardo verso il cielo buio anche se pieno di stelle, in ogni odore, in ogni emozione sei lì con loro a vivere tutto sulla tua pelle.
It’s a coming of age story filled with adventure, suspense, friendship, romance and tragedy all washed down with (from what I understand) a historically accurate picture of Leningrad during the blockade.I should point out that despite the events of the time this is also a surprisingly funny read as our two main characters; Kolya the romantic optimist and Lev with his random internal observations both have an interesting way of looking at life around them during the absurdities of war.
The story begins with a powerful opening chapter; a writer asks his grandfather to tell him about his experiences during the war.
3 Stars Overview:  “Truth might be stranger than fiction, but it needs a better editor. ” Inspired by David Benioff's grandfather, this story takes place during the Leningrad Blockade, which occurred from 1941 to 1944 and resulted in up to 4,500,000 deaths. In the midst of this, Lev is a Jewish 17-year-old who is arrested for looting a German corpse. The Soviet police pair him with Koyla, a deserter with artistic ambitions and gives them a mission: Find 12 eggs in the desolate, war-torn city. P
Comics and Comic-based movies often rely on a dark or sarcastic humor despite the intense story-lines.
This novel was absolutely peppered with crude humor as Lev and Koyla became friends, but it was detracting to the story at times.
Lev and Koyla frequently discuss sex or make sex jokes, and while it was off-putting at first, by the end of the book it became clear these jokes served as a way for them to disengage from the horrors around them.
That’s a weird criticism for something based on a true story, but it just seemed almost an easy way to end things.
In passato mi è successo, ma mi è successo anche di scoprire libri come la Versione di Barney.Da scrittore e da lettore, quale libro consiglieresti di leggere?-La città dei ladri di David Benioff, questa fu la sua risposta.Presi un appunto sul Kindle, detti un’occhiata su anobii il giorno dopo.
Leggendo questa nota mi è venuto in mente che Sergio Leone morì prima di aver realizzato l’ultimo suo ambizioso progetto, un film sull'assedio della città.
Really, really enjoyed this. I'm kind of surprise at how much... the characters are very well developed and so likable. Creating humorous moments during a period in history not regarded as such is a difficult thing for an author to pull off. Benioff does it with such ease and ends up leaving you with a smile on your face. Easy 5 stars read for me.
City Of Thieves, by David Benioff, was the perfect mix of sadness and humour in a story set during WWII.In the dead of winter, during the siege of Leningrad, two young men Kolya and Lev, are pulled out of a Russian jail right before they were sentenced to die.
They have no choice but to begin this hazardous journey in search of the unattainable eggs.In this unexpected adventure they get themselves involved in one scrape after another.
As the story progresses there are many gripping events with a touch of humour thrown in.
Poni domande attinenti alla conclusione o al contesto della storia che stai per raccontare.
Dai una personalità ben definita a ciascuno dei personaggi che compaiono nella tua storia, giocando con accenti, stili di discorso, atteggiamenti.
Rilasciare la tensione nei momenti giusti è molto importante per raccontare una storia bilanciata.
Includere dettagli per immergere i lettori nella storia è un processo fondamentale, ma dovresti evitare che il tuo racconto risulti sconclusionato.
Dai alla tua storia una conclusione chiara e definitiva." Ho ripensato a questi punti leggendo "la città dei ladri".
Spassoso, ben scritto, tratto da fatti realmente accaduti – non solo in quanto ambientato durante l'assedio di Leningrado ma anche in quanto ispirato alla vita del nonno dell'autore, come amabilmente esposto nell'introduzione – e tuttavia mi ha fatto uno strano effetto leggere un'avventura ambientata a San Pietroburgo (e dintorni) raccontata con un tono così marcatamente e scanzonatamente americano.
Beniov è uno sceneggiatore di mestiere ed in effetti la struttura dell'intreccio reca traccia evidente di questo, comunque qui si è abbastanza ben calato nel solco della tradizione della narrazione e del puro piacere di voltar pagina.
“If you want to talk about Leningrad, we talk about Leningrad.” So begins the story of Lev and Kolya in what I will say is the best book I have read this year. I’ve read a number of books that are in some way related to WWII over the past 12 months. This happened without planning. It’s just that some of the very best books are in this category, so I wanted to read them: Vonnegut, Philip K Dick, Wiesel & Kristin Hannah. Vonnegut wrote a satire based on reality. Dick wrote a science-fiction p
So begins the story of Lev and Kolya in what I will say is the best book I have read this year.
It’s just that some of the very best books are in this category, so I wanted to read them: Vonnegut, Philip K Dick, Wiesel & Kristin Hannah.
In City of Thieves, Benioff (who I now wish would write more and more books, but hey, I know he has a few irons in the fire) creates a story of fiction set within the true siege of Leningrad (St. Petersburg), fondly known as Piter to the Russians who lived there.
CITY OF THIEVES is a coming-of-age story that centers around one eventful week in 1942 Leningrad and
This is a lovely, coming of age novel about a young (17) man in Nazi-besieged St Petersberg, Piter to the locals, who finds himself accompanied by a Soviet army deserter, named Kolya as they try to survive the horrors of war.
It is, of course, a bleak landscape, with people driven mad by hunger and desperation, some to the point of cannibalism.
What are people capable of?
What is our young hero capable of?
Can he kill?
I quite enjoyed this book.
It was engaging from front to end, with nicely drawn characters and payload in the form of an inside view of life under siege.
