https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/60469.Snow_in_April
Πρωτη επαφη με Πιλτσερ. Ωραια κ γρηγορη ιστορια! Απλη γραφη, χωρις πολλες περιγραφες, που κουραζουν τον αναγνωστη. Βεβαια στο τελος ηθελα κατι παραπανω. Δεν ξερω τι.. μαλλον διαφορετικη καταληξη ή μια ανατροπη. Τελειωσε πολυ συγκαταβατικα κ αποτομα. Παρ' ολα αυτα διαβαζεται ξεκουραστα!
Αν κάτι το διασώζει από το ένα αστέρι είναι ότι η γραφή δεν είναι ντιπ κατά ντιπ. Δεν μπορούμε να εξομοιώσουμε την Ρόζαμουντ με τις Χρυσαλλίδες και τα Κρεμμύδια του ενός αστεριού ελλείψει μηδέν ή μείον. Αλλά και αυτή το έχει παραξηλώσει. Τα ίδια και τα ίδια χωρίς καν να πλησιάζουν τις αρετές του "Ψάχνοντας για κοχύλια". Έχω διαβάσει πιο ενδιαφέροντα άρλεκιν και όχι τόσο προβλέψιμα.Διάβαζε η Αθηνά Τσάση, ταιριαστή φωνή στην ιστορία.
After an unfortunate accident in a blizzard leaves the two stranded, they meet a man named Oliver living nearby who takes them in.I’ve heard lovely things about Rosamunde Pilcher’s books, most especially The Shell Seekers, but I made the decision to pick up Snow in April for one important reason: it satisfied the ‘April, May or June in Title’ square on my Bookish Bingo card.
Was that a thing in the 70′s or something because… no.So Caroline travels to Scotland, gets stranded and is cared for by the (supposed to be-I didn’t see it) swoony Oliver.
Not in the same league at all as her more famous book The Shell Seekers but still a delightfully entertaining story about families and romance. It is a light and easy read which I finished in just a couple of hours, but they were hours I enjoyed very much. Highly recommended for anyone who needs cheering up by a real happy ending.
Rosamunde Pilcher's books are primarily about relationships between people.
It is clear that people don't think about their lives until they are faced with the reality.
Conversely, the 'bad guys' are not terrible, horrifying people.
People, in Pilcher's books, are doing the best they can.
Another thing I like about Pilcher's books is the people have very civilized seeming lives.
Snow in April opens with Caroline in the bath before she dresses to go down to dinner.
The delicious description of the bathroom makes me want to go there right now and take a bath.Pilcher is the writer who made me want to eat cassoulet.
I was practically weaned on Rosamunde Pilcher, and I can't help loving her lovely little stories of English life. She's very much along the lines of Maeve Binchy, though she was writing mostly in the 70s. The short ones like these are just pleasant books you can read in a day and forget. The longer ones (The Shell Seekers is the one everybody knows) are absolutely wonderful. I'll probably read them all every seven years or so for the rest of my life.
I don't know why I love Rosamunde Pilcher so much!
Her heroes are nice, strong, and sensible.
They create a world (usually in Scotland) that you just want to live in, and as long as the book lasts, you feel like you do.
This is not my favorite but I still really liked it.
The heroine, Caroline, was really stupid about her health, and made some really bad decisions, which the hero, Oliver, chewed her out for.
Everything else is why I love Rosamunde Pilcher.
Before I move on to another audio book author, I must read another one.
De esos romances que se dan sin darse cuentaLectura ligera, pero bonita.Y la autora sabe cómo transmitir los sentimientos de una forma sutil.
I have always enjoyed Rosamunde Pilcher's novels and generally feel a sense of "loss" when I've finished her books and have to leave those characters behind.
Snow in April did not grab me early on as many of her other novels have; the initial introduction of the characters seemed slow and almost boring, with a languid Caroline at a dinner party that seemed to never end.
Although not up to the caliber of many of Pilcher's other novels, I would still recommend Snow in April to anyone looking for a short, easy read set in England and Scotland.
I love Rosamunde Pilcher-- my mom introduced her to me when I was younger and lived off happy love stories.
However, for what it is (a quick, easy feel good novel you read by a fire with a cup of tea) it delivers.
It isn't as good as her other easy-reads, so comparing it to them I would give it three out of five stars.
On a final note, if you find love stories that primarily deal with a heroine who "just can't do a darned thing by herself" and needs a rude, imposing male figure to sort out her life for her due to this chronic inability to think for herself (which comes inherently with the female sex, apparently) demeaning, then this isn't a good choice for you.
I read this in 2006, according to my book journal, but I really can't remember it. My note about it says that it is an older (1971 or so) romantic story in which an engaged girl and her young brother drive from London to Scotland to see their older brother, but get stopped by a blizzard, and a better love prevails. (Not sure now what that means; guess she found someone new.) At any rate, I have always enjoyed this writer, but apparently I didn't think this was one of her better novels.
Everything by Rosamunde Pilcher is five stars for me. This book made me so happy!
Χιόνι τον Απρίλη - Ρόζαμουντ ΠίλτσερΜια ακόμα ιστορία από την πολυγραφότατη συγγραφέα του Ψάχνοντας για Κοχύλια, όπου μια νέα γυναίκα, παραμονές του γάμου της, βρίσκεται στην Σκοτία αναζητώντας έναν αδερφό, στην ουσία όμως αναζητώντας το νόημα της ζωής της.
Τα τοπία της ανοιξιάτικης Σκοτίας που ξαφνικά καταλαμβάνονται από αιφνίδια χιονοθύελλα, περιγράφονται παραστατικά και συνδέονται άμεσα με την ψυχολογία της ίδιας της ηρωίδας μέχρι που καταλήγει απροσδόκητα στη λύση που ικανοποιεί σχεδόν όλους.
Un romance carino che si fa leggere velocemente, ma che però non coinvolge eccessivamente, alcune scene sono molto rapide, poco dettagliate, soprattutto il finale, che mi è sembrato molto affrettato. Cosa invece che ho apprezzato sono le descrizioni di una Scozia che prima o poi dovrò visitare.
Silly. Great setting, some likeable characters, but the lead female and the romance were just plain silly.
"It's a sad thing, a dog without a master.
Jody's fear of telephones and spiders, but not of getting a ride in a lorrie with a stranger harken back to a simpler tume, if that's what you can call the 1970s, when the book was written.This is a sweet and simple story of meek, indifferent Caroline and her old-style little brother Jody, who are both facing major transitions.
Caroline is getting married, and Jody is moving to Canada with his step mom and her new husband.
The house is brought back to life, and with it, so are Caroline, Jody, and Oliver.
Caroline Cliburn is twenty years old and has recently become engaged.
The brother and sister haven't seen each other in several years, but Caroline and her younger brother Jody are both determined to find Angus and try to convince him to come back home.
Having recently lost his brother in a car accident, Oliver is still recovering from the tragedy and not really expecting visitors to his isolated family home.
However, as the heavy blizzard-like conditions continue, Oliver realizes that Caroline and Jody need a place to stay.
Es una novela romántica que intenta tener los elementos de una novela romántica pero en un libro que tiene solo ciento y pico páginas.
Asi que la cosa ha quedado fatal; la mitad es descripción, un cuarto introducción de los personajes y el otro cuarto (malamente y a todo correr) es la historia de amor, si se la puede llamar asi.
Exagerando un poquitín en 20 páginas tenemos "Eres una cria insoportable.
¡Que mal!Sabía que era una novela romántica pero de verdad que me esperaba algo un poco más sustancial.
No veo el amor por ningún sitio, en todo caso una relación paterno-filial y mucho, pero encima mal construida.
A lovely story. It makes you feel good curled up with it and a cup of tea kind of thing. What increases the enjoyment is the author's command of the language and writing talent. I am starting "Wild Mountain Thyme" next by her. A friend at the library has told me that her son, Robin Pilcher, is an even better writer than she is. So I'll read him next. I love stories set in England anyway, although this writer is Scottish.
I thoroughly enjoyed this. Had read it long ago and usually remember what i read, but really was like reading it for the first time. Just a nice, light read . Really i just enjoy all her books and reread them all . Also like her son, robin's books too.
The best thing about this book is the author. Thank goodness I got it from the library. Short story about an idiot and her brother and the journey they undertake to find another idiot. Ridiculous and romantic at the same time.
This was a delightful story. It took me two days to read this book. I was very glad to read it. It is the story of a girl who is about to be married. She goes to Scotland with her brother...

This is a quick read, not wholly substantial, but an easy, light romance with few surprises and characters. It was difficult to remember that Caroline was twenty, since her stubbornness and childish resolve made her seem so much younger. Not much depth or development was given to her fiance, Hugh, so Caroline's indifference to him left no emotional sympathy. I think this book would have been better had it been longer, and the characters better defined.
This wonderful story by my favorite author shows how a decision and a blizzard can change a few people's lives. Caroline Cliburn is going to be married in less than a week. But she borrows a car and drives to Scotland in search of her missing brother. While stranded in a stranger's home Caroline realizes that gratitude is the wrong reason to become a bride. Perhaps she will discover real love as a result of her spontaneous travel adventure.
It’s really a 2.5 stars. This must have been an early work as it was sketchy. A short insta romance. Not much rom but nice description of Scotland and trip from London by Caroline & her young brother. RP’s reputation assures me that she wrote better books later. Contrived tale.. but learned about curlews (birds) and swedes (rutabaga) and Mini Moke (dune buggy-type British vehicle).
This book is reminiscent of the harlequin books from my wayward youth. The lady is a bit dim and the man knows all (although at least this male protagonist isn't cruel and hateful). The character of the younger brother is done well and it is set in Scotland, so it is not a total loss.
This was disappointing because I usually love R. Pilcher's books. It started out well but somewhere in the middle it stopped making sense. The characters were not believable and the ending was abrupt.
Must be one of Pilcher's earlier works before she matured into the storyteller she became with Winter Solstice, Carousel, and Shell Seekers. Characters and story were not well developed, but it was still fun to read. Short and simple plot.
I love Rosamunde Pilcher’s settings, but her characters are not timeless. Timid main characters who wait for life to happen, and men who are a bit chauvinist and domineering. But the story works out happily and I’m a sucker for that.
