https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/815356.Winter_Dreams

He doesn't limit his writing to choosing the right words, even his commas and dashes are perfectly on point: It was during those three days that, for the first time, he had asked her to marry him.
She said "maybe some day," she said "kiss me," she said "I'd like to marry you," she said "I love you" — she said — nothing.He always expresses so much with few words, an ability I love in any writer, but one especially important in one who writes short stories.
They are all beautiful and athletic women who, despite being selfish assholes, are so dazzling and energetic men can't help falling in love with them.
Excelente colecção de contos, escritos delicada e minuciosamente por quem,sem sombra de dúvidas,tinha uma capacidade excepcional para nos fazer submergir numa estória. Três/quatro linhas são suficientes para nos atirar para dentro de um universo onde sabe bem caminhar e ser conduzido. Americano puro,numa sociedade aburguesada,onde os dandys proliferam,e as almas se vão queimando.Nem todos os contos têm o mesmo nível,e os dois últimos ficam aquém dos três primeiros,mas em nenhum momento o tempo parece perdido.
It is also arguable that Dexter Green bears a resemblance to Fitzgerald himself, a restless and talented young man desperate to advance himself in a singular pursuit of success.The “winter dreams” of the story refer to the American Dream that Dexter comes to embody, but success brings a high cost, and social mobility restricts Dexter’s capacity for happiness.
The boat becomes Judy’s haven from the oppressive affections of men who are captivated by her, an expensive toy that whisks her away from commitment or the need to accept responsibility for her actions.Golf balls, part of the pristine world of the country club, suggest the harm that an idle life can lead to as well as the stringent requirements one must meet to belong to the upper class.
Read this book in a required American Lit class with a shitty teacher. God, I hated that class. But this short story woke me up. Anyone who has been through a passionate relationship (and maybe actual love on your end rather than hers and maybe she knew that) that broke up and part of you still yearns for that person will relate (I think) to this short story on a deeper level than the outsider looking in.
Dexter es un joven que tiene grandes aspiraciones, viene de una familia humilde y desea prosperar en la vida, ser alguien importante.
Se enamora siendo muy joven de Judy, una joven caprichosa y sin escrúpulos que pertenece a la alta sociedad.'No le importaban los labios, los ojos, las manos que acariciaban.
Quería que le importaran, pero no le importaban.
Incluso el dolor que podía haber sentido había quedado atrás, en el país de las ilusiones, de la juventud, de la plenitud de la vida, donde habían florecido sus sueños de invierno.'
I read somewhere once that Fitzgerald was incapable of writing a dull sentence. I think that's quite true, but aside from that there's always something about the themes he chooses and the way he exposes his times and his society that strikes me right where my heart is.
Judy è una stella cometa che attraversa la vita di Dexter e infine si dissolve, lasciandolo orfano del suo sogno più bello.
Dexter tuttavia sembra amare più che altro la sua vitalità e l'inquietudine esistenziale, che la trascina senza posa da un amore al successivo, senza mai raggiungere la felicità.
Inoltre, questo è il racconto di Dexter: rimane la voglia di conoscere Judy per vedere se è davvero tanto bella e impossibile e chiederle se è infelice col marito o se invece ha trovato una strada verso una vita più appagante in compagnia dei suoi bambini, lasciando cocktail, feste e follie al marito.
Many people will agree that this is quite a tragic book the tremendous influence women have on men.
Even though the book does not really relate to the everyday lives of some people, this book has a huge impact on the lives of people because it provides the average man with an everyday scenario of what goes on and it also brings out the strong control women can have on men.
Most people are in that kind of scenario where they deeply crave for something and then later the thing they crave have no value at all.
" All mysterious happenings , all fresh and quickening hope, had gone away with her, come back with her now " In fact, I saw myself several times in Dexter's sufferance, I felt how it's to be tortured by someone you get for a brief time, and then it's GONE " fire and loveliness were gone, the magic of nights and the wonder of varying hours and of seasons , slender lips ..
he was too strong and alive for it to die lightly / it hurt him that she did not miss these things", and you just have to deal with it alone, it's hat we get for a little moment ( not enough time) and that goes forever what hurts the most .
4,5 * Judy Jones surge como uma personagem vazia, cuja única função é a sedução. Mas não se destaca como algo negativo, como uma pobre construção de personalidade, mas sim como algo lhe surge de forma natural, que lhe pertence.* A ideia de expectativa/nostalgia foi muito bem explorada.* Destaco ainda os momentos descritos, sempre acompanhados por uma melancolia cativante.* A história de Dexter e a escrita de Fitzgerald deixa-nos com curiosidade sobre a restante obra do autor.
#Je ne suis pas Judy ! 3.5*
I recommend this short story for people who like to read about a love that cannot be.
Dexter asked Judy on a date, and to his surprise, she said yes.
On their date, Judy finds out about Dexter’s income and talks sadly about how she was with a man who confessed his poverty.
She loves to be with several different men even though she is with Dexter.
Their relationship eventually ends, and Dexter does not know what to do without Judy.
Dexter eventually realizes that he needs to move on from Judy.
Read “Winter Dreams” to see what happens...
Judy Jones is a character who I think embodies what the Roaring Twenties were about.
She's all glitzy and glammy, and there's nothing really concrete about her.
She uses her physical qualities to her benefit until she accidentally gets herself in an irreversible glitch, which ruins every ounce of amiableness that she ever possessed.
It's this materialistic character that helps me fall in love with literature from the twenties, but it's also literature such as this that shows a huge weakness in any female presence.
They are the destruction of the male protagonist, and are the inevitable test of a man's willpower.
There's always the shadow of a woman on a man.
.Winter Dreams by F.
Scott FitzgeraldIt is a simple story of a young man Dexter, who seeks his personal success and to be recognized as a sophisticated business man.
Judy, who was a girl that choses to have various relationships with various men.
She is a typical materialistic girl who seeks financially stable men that runs after her for her external beauty.Winter Dreams I think it refers to our ideal dreams that can not be realised fully, I mean indeed life can gives you things make you happy, but it never gives you everything.Enjoyable and full of beautiful symbols!

This is the first F. Scott Fitzgerald story I read and I'm impressed. I really enjoyed the story and the writing was so beautiful!! Maybe I should give The Great Gatsby a chance.
F. Scott Fitzgerald certainly sticks to specific themes in his writing - ambition, flirtatious women, dreams... but hey, I'm not complaining; he does what he does and he does it well. I can definitely see the roots of The Great Gatsby in this short story - Dexter Green has all the characteristics of a young Gatsby and Judy Jones parallels as Daisy Buchanan, the unattainable dream always just barely out of grasp. Highly recommend to anyone who enjoyed the The Great Gatsby.
Fitzgerald might just be my favorite classic author. After the Great Gatsby and now this? Your works are truly amazing. Kinda wish more people read your writing during your time.
4,5 ⭐️
This is by far the best piece of literature I've ever read in English. I totally recommend it.
Wasn't impressed!!!
He dreamed about being a champion golfer and imagined himself as a celebrity surrounded by huge crowds, among which was the golf clubs owner, Mr. Mortimer Jones.Dexter was fourteen when he met Mr.Jones’s eleven-year-old Judy who came to the club with her nanny.
Devlin commented, “Lots of women fade just like that”.The author described Dexter's feelings and thoughts,"He had thought that having nothing else to lose he was invulnerable at last— but he knew that he had just lost something more, as surely as if he had married Judy Jones and seen her fade away before his eyes.
Once a Gatsby, always a GatsbyDiceva Steinbeck, ne La valle dell'Eden, che l'umanita ha un'unica storia, e che sulla base di questa sono costruiti tutto il romanzo e tutta la poesia; se tale massima puo applicarsi alla letteratura in generale, quando si tratta di Fitzgerald, sembra che essa valga in modo particolare. Il dubbio che ho avuto, leggendo questa short story, e infatti che l'autore americano, nella sua vita, abbia avuto in testa essenzialmente un'unica storia, e che poi, nel corso degl
Il dubbio che ho avuto, leggendo questa short story, è infatti che l'autore americano, nella sua vita, abbia avuto in testa essenzialmente un'unica storia, e che poi, nel corso degli anni, abbia deciso, più o meno consapevolmente, di proporla in tutte le declinazioni possibili.
Winter Dreams, questo compatto raccontino articolato in appena una manciata di pagine, pare proprio un Gatsby in forma embrionale, che rispetto al suo più famoso fratello letterario, è caratterizzato però da uno stile più fluido e semplice, e i cui personaggi, probabilmente grazie alla brevità dell'opera stessa, sebbene altrettanto antipatici, risultano, se non altro, un po'meno irritanti.La vicenda, come anticipavo, è fin troppo simile.
Scott Fitzgerald personified.
The '20s setting, the eloquent prose, the beautiful, conflicted, rich characters.
While Fitzgerald's characters are never people that I'd want to hang out with in real life, I still deeply enjoy reading about their frivolous, misguided lives.
Judy Jones is manipulative and spoiled, but she still entrances me.
It may be cruel, but it's also impressive as hell.The bitter ending is also very Fitzgerald-y.
Judy, I guess, "gets what's coming to her"--though I don't think she quite deserved it--and we're left with more tragic endings and beautiful prose.
It's just so Fitzgerald I could cry.
This is the most beautiful piece of prose I have read so far. Pure poetry. Not sure what to laud more - the style of the writing or the content. Both are exceptionally good. I am fascinated by the fact that Fitzgerald managed to reveal a very realistic story in such a magical way. The irony being that it turns out to be nothing less of a dreamlike experience for the reader.
"Long ago," he said, "long ago, there was something in me, but now that thing is gone. Now that thing is gone, that thing is gone. I cannot cry. I cannot care. That thing will come back no more." F.Scott Fitzgerald's writing is so exquisite I can't even...Really enjoyed this one.
Una grandiosa y sencilla historia de amor contanda magistralmente. Al principio no le encontraba mucho sentido, pero al irme adentrando en el texto y llegar al final comprendi el sentido final de la historia. Historia de amor que desafortundamente pasa a muchos en esta vida. Una de las pocas historias de amor que me ha llenado y satisfecho al leerla. Bravo Maestro FITZGERALD !!!!
This short story is about a hopeless romantic named Dexter that becomes infatuated with the flirt Judy Jones. He imagines her to be perfect, everything he strives to be. Ultimately, his vision of her gets shattered in his later adulthood. This story is very similar to Daisy Miller by Henry James.
Judy Jones appears as an empty character whose only function is seduction. But it does not stand out as something negative, like a poor personality, but rather as something comes naturally to her, which belongs to her. Each moment, and indeed the story as a whole, was permeated by a captivating melancholy. Beautiful writing from beginning to end.
