https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/88432.Life_and_Fate
Ho dovuto aiutarmi guardando cartine geografiche, con una mappa dei personaggi, che sono sterminati come la steppa e l’umanità dei lager e dei gulag, tutti provvisti di nome cognome patronimico e uno, se non due, diminuitivi; mi sono scontrato con i tenenti colonnelli e i tenenti generali e i commissari, le divisioni, le unità, i reggimenti, i battaglioni.Una fatica pienamente ripagata.Grossman affronta il suo racconto senza paura e senza soggezione.Eppure ci sarebbe da tremare: l’universo concentrazionario dal punto di vista di un osservatore e non della vittima.Grossman conosce la materia, l’ha vista da vicino, c’era quando è successo.È una marcia in più, uno sguardo tanto più acuto profondo e illuminante.Conosce il cielo di cemento, i muscoli forti dell’acciaio, i crateri delle bombe, un fiume allagato di fiamme, il freddo la fame e la paura, un mondo di spie e uomini non fra i migliori, parecchi dei quali hanno guardato il male dall’alto in basso, mentre la morte faceva il suo lavoro e gli uomini il proprio.Poi, il suo talento ha fatto il resto.Non credo nella bontà universale, nel bene generato dal socialismo o dal cristianesimo.
Also, in the tradition of “War and Peace” (which I haven’t read), the narrative places various members of one large extended family at the core of most of the scenarios used to bring to life a nation and a society at war: the elderly Shaposhnikova matriarch, stuck in Ukraine at the onset of war, ends up confined by the Germans in a Jewish ghetto that is later massacred; her son Viktor, a Jewish theoretical physicist who is driven by pure science and tested in his integrity by politics; his wife’s ex-husband, who is placed in a Soviet work camp among Trotsky-style Bolsheviks purged in 1937; his sister-in-law who is torn between her ex-husband and her fiancé, the first a party true-believer who serves as a political officer in Stalingrad and is later falsely accused and imprisoned in Moscow as a traitor, and the latter a colonel of a tank brigade who leads the Soviet counterstrike at Stalingrad; Viktor’s sister, a Moscow physician caught while traveling, bravely experiences a trip by cattle car to meet her fate in a gas chamber.
There's no crystal or caviar, no six-horse barouches, no perfumed décolletage, no placid landscapes, and of course no character even remotely like Field Marshal Kutuzov who, when he hears of the retreating French, mutters to himself: "I shall make them eat horse meat!" Late in Life and Fate, however, when the Germans encircled at Stalingrad were hacking away at a frozen horse, this reader could think of nothing else.This is the first book I've read that has given me a sense of how World War II affected the whole of the USSR.
Fourth, is the story of Abarchuk, Lyudmila's first husband, and his life in the Gulag.
Жизнь и судьба = Zhizn i sadba = Life and Fate: a novel (Stalingrad #2), Vasily GrossmanLife and Fate (Russian: Жизнь и судьба) is a 1960 novel by Vasily Grossman and is seen as the author's magnum opus. Technically, it is the second half of the author's conceived two-part book under the same title. Although the first half, the novel For a Just Cause, written during the rule of Joseph Stalin and first published in 1952, expresses loyalty to the regime, Life and Fate sharply criticises Stalinism.
Although the first half, the novel For a Just Cause, written during the rule of Joseph Stalin and first published in 1952, expresses loyalty to the regime, Life and Fate sharply criticises Stalinism.تاریخ نخستین خوانش: روز چهارم ماه اکتبر سال 1999 میلادیعنوان: زندگی و سرنوشت؛ نویسنده: واسیلی گروسمن؛ مترجم: سروش حبیبی؛ ویراستار: سرز استپانیان؛ تهران، سروش، 1377؛ در 919 ص؛ شابک: 9644353102؛ چاپ دیگر: تهران، نیلوفر، 1386؛ شابک: 9789644483660؛ برگردان از متن: انگلیسی؛ موضوع: داستانهای نویسندگان روسیه - سده 20 مواسیلی گروسمن، در آغاز حمله ی آرتش آلمان نازی به روسیه، در سال 1941 میلادی، به عنوان خبرنگار جنگی، در نبرد حضور داشتند.
گروسمن پس از پایان پژوهش خویش، اعلام کرده که: استالین (دیکتاتور شوروی) چیزی از هیتلر (رهبر آلمان نازی) کم ندارد.
( Part 2, chapter 31 treats anti-semitism in detail but it is present throughout in a range of forms, notably none of the Jewish characters seem to be observant, nor Yiddish speaking, while people who use Ukrainian words are pointed out but don't experience prejudice).It is also an explosively anti-soviet book, which was banned because it hurt the Soviet regime where it really hurt (ie in the Party's claim to have played a guiding role in achieving victory in WWII, here even the 'fighting commissars' are just another level of privileged people confusing the command structure and telling tales on the serious soldiers who want to fight effectively and efficiently without massive casualties) I now see that Solzhenitsyn was by contrast with Grossman merely a literary Donald Trump or Nigel Farage - an exemplar of the politics of the whinging of the relatively privileged citizen.It is rather journalistic, less a novel than a series of reports with reoccurring characters and themes, but do I imagine that it will live with me like  War and Peace no, not for an instant, and yet it emphatically is not War and Peace and so will find its own place.
Se puede decir que es una crónica de la segunda guerra mundial vista desde la batalla de Stalingrado; pasando por campos de concentración alemanes, los Gulag rusos y el día a día de la guerra, con todos sus horrores.
PD: Como anécdota, cuando Grossman terminó de escribir el libro, la KGB irrumpió en su piso y confiscó todos sus apuntes y documentos..."Le pido que devuelva la libertad a mi libro, pido que mi libro se discuta con editores, no con los agentes de la KGB.
¿Qué sentido tiene que yo sea físicamente libre cuando el libro al que he dedicado mi vida es arrestado?...
Reseña completa: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2V0py...Aunque este libro está ambientado durante la batalla de Stalingrado, realmente lo que muestra son retazos de vidas durante la Segunda Guerra Mundial...
Puntos de vista muy dispares, personajes que sufrieron desde los campos de trabajo a los de concentración, el asedio, las bombas, la vida en el frente y la angustia por los familiares desaparecidos.
'Vida y destino' es mucho más que una crónica, habla de arte, literatura, dignidad, amor...
está plagado de dudas y sufrimiento y hubo un capítulo en especial que me rompió el corazón.
When you consider the steps that had to be taken to smuggle this novel out of the Soviet Union, painstakingly photographed page by page on microfilm, you cannot but marvel at the determination and effort made by believers in the power of the written word to bring such important stories to light. This epic novel is, along with Victor Serge's stunning masterwork  Unforgiving Years , the best fictional depiction I've read of the barbaric inhumanity of the Soviet experience in the Second World War a
What inner agonies must Grossman and Serge have endured, going to their graves believing that these works of art - which they had sweated blood in wringing forth from the shopworn and suppurating experiences inflicted upon them by endless violence, strife, and war in relatively brief lives - were destined to have an audience of but a handful of loyal friends; or, in Grossman's case, of arrogantly presumptive party apparatchiks and a cultural minister who inflicted further wounds upon the author's sorely tried soul by announcing that it would never see the light of publication ere two hundred years had passed, and it could no longer be deemed harmful to the cause of the glorious state.Life and Fate is a vast, sprawling and impassioned novel that is centered around the final months of the Battle of Stalingrad, the pivotal turning point for Communist Russia in the Second World War. This is a kaleidoscopic novel, focusing on the lives of a number of interrelated families and individuals scattered from Moscow to the cold, empty deserts of the Kalmyk steppes.
Both epic in scope and intimate in detail, this powerhouse novel had me riveted from the very beginning. The prose style is spare yet luminous. Many have mentioned Chekhov as model for the writing style, and that feels right to me. There are some truly haunting scenes in this book. But it's the constant juxtaposition of the tragic and the comic, the grand and the banal, that gives this novel its true heft.
Ideologically, however, the model to which Grossman admitted to feeling closest was Chekhov… who brought into Russian literature a new kind of humanism based on the ideas of freedom and loving kindness.Tzvetan TodorovGrossman during the Second Word War, a war correspondent for Krasnaya ZvezdaThe translator, Robert Chandler, has contributed a useful Introduction, going through biographical info on Grossman (1905-1964), critical judgements of the book and Grossman's writings in general, and the history of the writing and suppressed publication of the novel.
In Life and Fate, Grossman achieves what many other Soviet writers struggled but failed to achieve: a portrait of an entire age.The novel consists of three parts, each composed of 60-70 fairly shorts chapters.
Al principio es difícil y denso (Vasili Grossman fue corresponsal de guerra y eso se nota) y hay que perseverar y no ofuscarse ante tanto personaje y dato histórico, pero una vez ubicada el resultado fue 1104 páginas devoradas en dos semanas.
Lo mejor es cómo Vasili Grossman consigue desgranar el alma humana en tiempos de guerra (Segunda Guerra Mundial, en el frente Oriental- Soviético) desde muchos puntos de vista diferentes.
Come si può perdonare tanto orrore?Nelle miniere, in caso di avvelenamento, gli indicatori di gas, uccellini e topi, muoiono subito.I loro corpi sono piccoli come era piccolo il corpo di David, che se n'era andato prima di lei.«Sono madre» - pensò.Questo fu il suo ultimo pensiero.Ma nel suo cuore c'era ancora vita: si stringeva, duoleva, aveva pietà di voi, uomini vivi e morti.La nausea l'invase.Strinse a sé David, la crisalide, e divenne lei stessa morte crisalide.

What an astonishing book Life and Fate is; what an astonishing man Vasily Grossman must have been.
But Life and Fate, with no exaggeration at all, can truly be said to stand in the same literary pantheon as Tolstoy’s panorama; that Grossman found the voice of the Great Patriotic War as Tolstoy found that of the Patriotic War. It’s the kind of novel that I believe only comes once in a generation, perhaps once in a century.
Grossman was right- absolute truth is the most beautiful thing of all.
Having read War and Peace a couple of months ago in which Tolstoy pointed out already in the mid nineteenth century the role of accident and fate in the success of military campaigns, thus underlining their futility, I wondered how any European leader could ever have embarked on another takeover knowing the outcome of Napoleon's campaigns.
Life And Fate deals mostly with the confrontation between the German and the Russian national socialist regimes lead by these two monomaniacs during WWII and again we see how blindly their personal vision was subscribed to by huge numbers of both populations without question.
And Grossman points out just as Tolstoy did, how large a role is played by accident and fate in the final outcome.
The worst reviews, in my humble opinion, are those that begin with this sentence: I really wanted to like this book?
Who starts to read a book that they hope they will not like?
Isn't every book we start one we hope will be the greatest ever?
I hoped it would be the greatest book ever.
He could have given the world this book instead and it would have been as real.Come with me, where Grossman took me, inside a cattle car, with the stench and the death.
A monumental novel in the Great Russian tradition which has been rightly compared with War and Peace.
However this is, like War and Peace, very much not just a war novel.
One of the main focuses of the book is the criticism of Stalinism, the sheer pointless stupidity of a totalitarian regime.
A number of the characters in the novel are old Bolsheviks who are struggling to come to terms with Stalin’s regime and especially with the mass arrests of 1937.
This is a great novel which takes you along with its sheer power and the magnificence of the writing.

At the end of the novel an old woman, Alexandra Vladmirovna, who to me symbolized Mother Russia, returns to the ruins of her home in Stalingrad and admires the spring sky wondering: "why the future of those she loved was so obscure and the past so full of mistakes, not realizing that this very obscurity and unhappiness concealed a strange hope and clarity, not realizing that in the depths of her soul she already knew the meaning of both her life and the lives of her nearest and dearest, not realizing that even though neither she herself nor any of them could tell what was in store, even though they all knew too well that at times like these no man can forge his own happiness and that fate alone has the power to pardon and chastise, to raise up to glory and to plunge into need, to reduce a man to labour camp dust, nevertheless neither fate, nor history, nor the anger of the State, nor the glory or infamy of battle has any power to affect those who call themselves human beings.
Here is a link to his five star review: https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...For me, this book was more of a four star read.
I was captivated now and then by some of the little things I found fascinating: the ridiculous psychological manipulations of Stalin and his minions as they force good people to sign fraudulent documents, the amazing details and thoughts of each of the main characters and how the horrible situation of life as prisoners, soldiers, and everyday citizens living in the era under the iron hand of communism, affected their whole existence and every little thought, especially the main character.
"Vita e destino" è uno di quei libri che non si dimenticano facilmente, che ti entrano dentro, ti scorticano la pelle fino a sanguinarla e farti male lasciandoti a pezzi sperando che qualcuno ti raccolga.E' un romanzo difficile, una riflessione amara, dolorosa sul male e le sue conseguenze.
E' la vita dolorosa, cruda, tragica, ma stupenda, in ogni caso, come ci dice anche uno dei protagonisti:"Non è niente, non è niente, mio caro, è la vita".
I really liked this bookIt is softer and less ideological than other Soviet literature I have read from this time - I can certainly see why it was bannedIt uses the backdrop of the battle of Stalingrad to explore the interlinked lives of an extended family and the people they come into contact withThere are parallels with War and Peace which I am sure was the authors intentionWarning - a bit of a brick at 850+ pages - not a quick read
L'amore per la patria russa e la critica per le scelte politiche e sociali del popolo convivono in pagine di meditata passione, dolorosa riflessione filosofica e ispirata denuncia storico-romanzesca: un racconto che ha forma collettiva e voce di persone reali e universali, nella coscienza complessa di uno scrittore che scelse di celebrare e onorare l'umano nell'uomo, di fronte alle forze oscure e violente che minacciarono la fragile continuità della vita e della libertà.“Né il destino del mondo, né la storia, né la collera di Stato, né battaglie gloriose e ingloriose erano in grado di cambiare coloro che rispondono al nome di uomini; ad attenderli potevano esserci la gloria per le imprese compiute oppure la solitudine, la disperazione, il bisogno, il lager e la morte, ma avrebbero comunque vissuto da uomini e da uomini sarebbero morti, e chi era già morto era comunque morto da uomo; è questa la vittoria amara e eterna degli uomini su tutte le forze possenti e disumane che sempre sono state e sempre saranno nel mondo, su ciò che passa e ciò che resta”.
This review was constructed while drinking. Pub Guinness veered into Sierra Nevada Torpedo at home. Yo La Tengo kept pushing immediate questions: why not, why not? Why isn't Life and Fate a fucking rock star on goodreads?Apparently such matters don't work in translation, well, unless it is Murakami or Bolano. I do find that rather akimbo, disjointed silences on germans and russians while YAs run amok. I did note that TWO of my coworkers are reading 50 Shades. No, the novel isn't a streamlined masterpiece, but it bleeds, it carries the smoked stench of someone who was there.
Sin duda es uno de los libros más hermosos que he leído en mi vida.
Una vez que la batalla de Stalingrado termina, habiendo vencido a los Alemanes, parecería casi un descanso, pero no lo es!
Es angustiante y confuso lo que sigue, el Estado es aún más fuerte, acaba de vencer a los alemanes, vengan todos y sean cobijados en su poder, en sumisión total, y sin dudas.
Ahora que han vencido a los Alemanes, qué será de los Rusos?Es una oda a la libertad del ser humano, la libertad de conciencia, de poder hablar, pensar, sentir lo que te dicta tu alma.
”…perché non è l’uomo che è impotente contro il male, ma perché è il male che è impotente contro l’uomo e la sua umanità più profonda: la bontà”. Ci sono momenti nella storia, epoche tremende, in cui “l’uomo non è più artefice del proprio destino”, anzi, “è il destino del mondo ad arrogarsi il diritto di condannare o concedere la grazia, di portare gli allori o di ridurre in miseria…”. Che cosa può fare allora un uomo stretto nella morsa della Storia, vittima della collera dello Stato? Solo una
Ci sono momenti nella storia, epoche tremende, in cui “l’uomo non è più artefice del proprio destino”, anzi, “è il destino del mondo ad arrogarsi il diritto di condannare o concedere la grazia, di portare gli allori o di ridurre in miseria…”.
Solo una cosa: cercare di difendere a tutti i costi la propria umanità, lottare strenuamente “per conquistarsi il diritto di essere uomo”.Così, nell’inferno della battaglia di Stalingrado Grossman ci presenta una moltitudine di personaggi, uomini e donne, le cui storie particolari si intrecciano con la Storia, una polifonia di voci che scuote profondamente, commuove, indigna, strazia, lascia stupefatti e ammirati.Un romanzo unico, grandioso.
Non sta a me recensire questo capolavoro, non ne sarei all'altezza, l'unica cosa che posso dire a riguardo é: leggetelo e rileggetelo se potete, testi di questa immensità e densità non si trovano così facilmente.
Though a large cast the life and fate of the protagonists at the time of the battle for Stalingrad made powerful and compelling reading.
I have never read these books but based on what I think of Life and Fate these must be truly remarkable books with such high praise.
There is also a List of Chief Characters at the back of the book to aid the reader who may not be used to the complicated Russian names.
Some chapters were so astonishingly emotionally charged I was putting the book down to take stock.
Paura che si è materializzata con perquisizioni, licenziamenti, distruzione di tutte le copie del suo testo, fino a non vederlo mai publicato in patria prima della morte.http://grossmanweb.eu/vasily-grossman...Proviamo a pensare se Steinbeck, per scrivere Furore, avesse dovuto combattere contro il governo degli Stati Uniti pronti a mandarlo sotto tortura.Questo libro è una finestra sulla Storia, ma anche un puzzle di tessere che ti svelano pian piano il presente, e i motivi di un futuro prossimo venturo, in un Occidente che sembra alla sua parabola discendente, accanto a una Russia che è sempre pronta a risorgere dalle sue ceneri come l’araba Fenice.
I luoghi, i tempi, gli eventi, i personaggi, gli stati d’animo, la vita, la morte, il destino e su tutto un’opera che è un inno alla libertà.I lager, le izbe, la steppa calmucca, i gulag, lo scenario urbano collassato in trincee, i ricoveri, i bunker, i palazzi sinistri del potere: la “tundra della vita”.La seconda guerra mondiale: descrizioni minuziose delle azioni militari.
Il destino e l’uomo, con scopi diversi ma in un’unica strada del male, se non si ascolta la voce della libertà.
E nasce questo romanzo, che anticipa la storia quando essa non è ancora attrezzata per accoglierlo.
