https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1448236.Parkinson_s_Law
Work expands so as to fill the time available for its completion.For a more complete, and very enjoyable review, see Jan-Maat's: https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...The above, Parkinson's law, and many corollaries, examples, and observed "proofs" of the law, are the topics addressed in this book by the originator of the law, C.
Parkinson was a British Naval historian, who published his original version of this book as a much briefer essay in The Economist.
The answer to the problem of candidate selection, in Parkinson's view, is to write the initial advertisement in such a way so that only the ideal candidate ever applies - but for the full explanation of this you are best off reading the book yourself and not relying on my, probably unreliable, account.Other gems are an analysis of working life.
This essay is illustrated by a wealth of examples of organisations whose decline correlates neatly with moving into a swanky, purpose built, new building.To the very young, to school-teachers, as also to those who compile textbooks about constitutional history, politics, and current affairs the world is more or less a rational place.
Parkinson's Law briefly stated is that 'work expands so as to fill the time available for its completion.' If it doesn't seem that an entire book could be written about this thesis then you haven't encountered the imaginative genius and the stinging comic wit of C.
Northcote Parkinson.
Witty, brilliant and always right on the money, Parkinson can make what should be deadly dull - a description of bureaucracy - into a delightful excursion through the halls of pompus human folly.
Really great stuff.
This book is a classic and can be read and reread with great pleasure.
There's a reason those bloggers on time management still invoke Parkinson's Law 55 years after he coined the term. Yet there's more to the law than the version we hear so often in contemporary culture. His other essays are just as insightful, especially when explaining why institutions behave the way they do.
Napisane pół wieku temu, aktualnie po dziś. Aż dziw!
How are British and French laws dictated largely by the layout of the seats in the legislature?
Why can you easily get approval for the ten million dollar nuclear power plant from the same committee that will never approve the five hundred dollar bike shed?
Why does an institution lose all relevance by the time it moves into a perfect building?With great dry whit, Parkinson gives us clear intuitions for the real forces that dictate how large bureaucracies operate.
I imagined myself with a handlebar mustache and a three piece suit, rolling my eyes at the idiosyncrasies of the clerks at the British Consulate.
Enjoying! A series of short essays on management theory. Parkinson's Law summarizes to me (at the moment) as work expends to fill the time allotted regardless of importance. It's currently relevant to me as I try to sort out how much time to allocate to a project
Very interesting modelling of social behaviour. Who would have thought there is a mathematical approach to finding the most important person (or group of people) in a party based solely on time and floor-space? But there is. Check the book out.
Every aspiring bureaucrat should be required to read, and learn, and UNDERSTAND this book
Love and absolutely agree with the conclusion that work expands to fill the time available, but this is a really old book and contains paragraphs and paragraphs of dry information.
This guy knows of what he speaks. Should be required reading every year in the business and MBA programs.
Ну что тут еще сказать. Work expands so as to fill the time available for its completion
Original and best!
Really great.
This approach, hilariously, is exactly the sort of agreement solely to avoid exposing our ignorance that Parkinson satirizes in the essay “High Finance, or The Point of Vanishing Interest.” I love it!Perhaps what makes Parkinson’s brand of satire unique (note: I’m not a satire expert, so I could be wrong) is that his observations have come to be used legitimately in discussions of administration.
Parkinson, it turns out, was intrigued by the following paradox: the number of people employed in the British Colonial Office bureaucracy increased even as the British Empire imploded — an event that decreased the amount of work available.Parkinson’s Law is not a catch phrase, but instead a statistical model devised by Professor Parkinson to describe the factors that control the growth of bureaucracy.
Read the full review on excellentbookreviews.comDisclaimer: I have read the German version of this book, which states that the original was published in 1980 as Parkinson: The Law by Houghton Mifflin Company, Boston.
Northcote Parkinson published his famous “law”, a half serious and half sarcastic description of the growth of bureaucracy.
He explained this with human nature to preferably share work with two underlings instead of one equal partner.
That way the initial problem of work overload (due to incompetence, laziness or actual overload) is solved, but the solution creates an equal amount of new work.Parkinson stated that an administration will show a steady growth of app.
I got this recommended to me years ago and after finding it in my parents' bookshelf I decided to read it. It was fun in a dry British way in some parts (laughing-out-loud funny), but some was a little bland. I guess you would find it funnier being in business life 40 years ago, as some of the references felt old (as in joked about too many times already).
Really, really funny. Great at toeing the line between joke and terrifyingly accurate. Great examples of systems thinking to take obvious truth to ridiculous but mostly realistic conclusions. Some really cringeworthy “of-the-time” stuff in one or two of the chapters, but overall, I loved the book.
Work expands so as to fill the time allotted for its completion. This and other words of wisdom appear in this book. Written humorously, but human nature being what it is, it hits home most of the time.
Should write out main laws not to forget. Pretty helpful in understanding some global processes occuring around that seemed too complicated to understand before
Very, very interesting!!!
Life changing book
С юмором о бюрократии. Книга столь же пророческая, сколь спорная.
Thoroughly entertaining; very well written. It contains a few societal and corporate behavioural gems. Well worth the read.
How can one not read this? It is a seminal text and still oh so valid. No excuses - it is very short and even downloadable as in pdf.
Very funny and so true - I recognised much of this from my own experience at work!
French parliament (seating arrangement helps/hurts discussion)funny, sarcastic chapterChapter 5: Personality Screen, or the Cocktail Formula56: human tendency to avoid the center (e.g., seating in a restaurant)Chapter 6: High Finance, or the Point of Vanishing Interest69: in a meeting, some people compensate for their ignorance on one subject by asking more questions on a less important subjectChapter 7: Palm Thatch to Packard, or a Formula for Success73: "The ordinary anthropologist is one who spends six weeks or six months (or even sometimes six years) among, say, the Boreyu tribe at their settlement on the Upper Teedyas River, Darndreeryland.
Though there is so much subtle humor (seriously subtle) in this book, that by the time one finishes it, it might be easy to discard the lot of what was written as fluff.
the total effort that would occupy a busy man three minutes..." One of the ways this is played out is that not always do "many hands make light work." He gives an example in which one government worker, for various reasons, finds it necessary to either resign, share work with a co-partner, or take on extra hands.
«Il lavoro si espande fino a occupare il tempo a disposizione per completarlo.» Molti di voi avranno probabilmente letto questa frase e l'avranno associata alle leggi di Murphy: ma essa ha un autore ben preciso, Cyril Northcote Parkinson (nessuna parentela con l'omonimo morbo), uno storico navale inglese che scrisse una sessantina di libri.
L'autore, con uno stile umoristico tipicamente britannico, elenca le caratteristiche tipiche di un sistema burocratico, mostrando come una qualsiasi organizzazione col tempo diventa sempre più autoreferente, generando del "lavoro interno" assolutamente inutile se non per richiedere nuove persone per gestirlo.
Ma ci sono anche capitoli sul funzionamento dei comitati e dei parlamenti che sembrerebbero scritti oggi e non risentono affatto dei più di cinquant'anni passati dalla prima edizione del libro.
Many of our everyday decisions are (or should have been) based upon Parkinson's insights.For example, he wrote "Work expands to fill the time allotted for it".
If you schedule more time, you'll create more tasks to accomplish a particular goal.The many corollaries derived from this law are significant.
“Junk expands to fill the space allotted for it”.
He noted the significance of an organization that has created excellent offices, beautiful grounds and buildings or excellent bureaucratic efficiency.
Healthy growing organizations are always in chaos.
When you’re busy growing and creating, you don’t have time or resources to devote to your own self admiration.
