https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/23196.The_River_Why
The result is an incredibly well-rounded metaphor, an uncommonly hybrid book composed of metaphysical pondering, self-effacing humor and breathtaking descriptions of the American wildlife that proves to be the key to Gus’ spiritual awakening.Highly reminiscent of Mary Oliver’s naturalistic poetry and R.W. Emerson’s philosophical pantheism, Duncan’s prose pulsates with boundless love for the natural world.
Man’s soul should be the result of intimate, personal introspection rather the dogmatic notion of sacred purity.Duncan is as intense as he is unpretentious and his words flow naturally and unfeigned like the waters of a silvery river that seeks its final release into the vast ocean.
A month or so passed, and one day I received a package in the mail, from David James Duncan, who had replaced my paperback with a first edition (in a note to me he wrote he "hoped I did not mind" replacing the paperback!
The inscription reads "To Aaron, on the occasion of your 16th birthday, hoping your own path on the river why is full of twist's and turns that are wonderful." When he wrote the word "why" it was as a meandering river....Of course this book, and the letters that came with it, are one of my son's treasures, and now, as he prepares to have his first child, a boy, he plans on sharing this gift with him one day.
Well, this is now my favorite book, bar none.
It had aspects of all of my favorite books combined.
Comedy and fantastic writing that is at times beautifully simple, and intellectually dense.
Deep philosophy blends beautifully next to all the other humdrums of life.
One that didn't even need the whole book for me to get attached to it.
this book was genius.If you think you need to like fishing to appreciate this book, you're wrong.
The only thing you really need is an appreciation for nature.
I don't even particularly care that much about fishing (despite having done so with my grandfather when I was a little girl).But Duncan has created a story so rich in thought and depth, that even the technicalities of fly making, casting, rod building, and water reading are irresistible.And with characters so real, they jumped off the page and sat in the room with me while I read.And humor that had me laughing aloud so often that those around me probably questioned my sanity.It has been a long time since I was actually hesitant to pick up a book and begin reading again-- because it never failed to pull me in ...
This novel tells the story of young fishing prodigy Gus Orviston and his madcap, fishing-obsessed family.
After graduating from high school, Gus leaves home so he can be free of distractions and devote himself entirely to fishing.
In the process and despite himself, Gus comes to discover the joys of community, romantic love, and eventually, God.It’s hard for me to express just how much I love this book.
One of the biggest reasons why is because it’s laugh-out-loud hysterical.
There are just not very many books dealing with spiritual matters that are so fantastically funny.
I am two parts surprised to one part in love with this book.
There's no denying that it is a coming of age story about a quiet analyical fisherman who finds his own peace and place in the world by developing his own agnostic religion.
So what compelled me to tear through this novel at my desk, and cramped on a kitchen table, and sneak peeks on the bus?
I've never met a person like him yet major aspects of his character run through some of my favorite people.
He matures into a young man that I would like to sit next to on an 8 hour bus ride.
Brilliant book. I've read this so many times, and recommended/bought copies for so many friends, I've lost count. A deeply moving, hysterically funny, perceptive, spiritual story of one man figuring out the "why" of it all.
This book is about a young man trying to find his way and place in the world.
He lives and breaths fishing.
This book is more about finding meaning in things and one’s connection to nature, than a fishing book.
It at times was a little too wordy and philosophical than I typically care for (I often found my mind wandering or my eyes getting heavy at the end of the day); but at times I was laughing so loud as well.
I enjoyed this book, but not as much as the author’s other, “The Brothers K” (which was a 5 star for me).
A life solo, and circumstances forced upon Gus unwittingly, cause the narrator/fisher hero to reevaluate what it means to live a good life, and forces him to reinterpret his life and relations prior to the river Why. I've heard this called a "coming of age story", but doing so pigeonholes this novel and colors the expectations of would-be readers.
I'll update this review over the weekend, since I cannot do it justice at present, but I'd like to inform any (hypothetical) reader in the present that this was the best and most significant work I've read in a very long time.
I tried really hard to love this book, but couldn't.
Generally I find books whose authors respect and revere the natural world, who write knowledgeably and often beautifully about it, and whose characters struggle with existential questions to be immensely satisfying and engaging, so I think I understand why others count this as a 5 star favorite.
It was too long with too much exposition.
Maybe if I were a fisher the, for me, tediously long descriptions of fishing for this or that kind of fish with this or that kind of equipment and technique would have captured me.
I know beans about fly-fishing, and as a kid I grew to hate fishing because of early morning forays with my father and one of his brothers wherein I worked at cutting bait, cleaning fish, and other cold, unpleasant tasks. This is a great novel even though it looks like it's about fishing. It's a love story, a story of the struggle with God, and a conservationist story. Read it, read it, read it!
So much so that the last chapter (which I think felt like an afterthought and didn't need to be there), when he talks about Vietnam, it caught me off-guard because the majority of the characters were so silly that I forgot this all was supposed to be taking place in the real world in an actual time period.I liked Gus a lot and really loved his existential musings throughout the book.
I like David James Duncan's writing, for the most part (I loved the Brothers K and highly recommend it), but parts of this book became tedious to read for me.
In the afterword the author says some publishers wanted to whittle it down.
Sometimes the publishers are right!
I can assure you that few fly-fishermen are women, and among those there are probably not a large number who are twenty, look like a centerfold, and angle in the buff.
That is why we have fiction, I suppose: to dream.The characters of Titus and Bill-Bob should probably have been eliminated entirely.
"A River Runs Through It" is philosophical, but not tiresome.
I'm pretty sure it is the only decent novel about fly-fishing, but at least there is one.
It is an even bigger mess than the novel.
I have never been that interested in fishing, and this book makes me want to fish!
Gus, the main character grows up fishing, in this crazy, fishing-obsessed, little family, and then he strikes out on his own, comes to know himself and what's really, most important to him.
And when the first sunlight lit upon the tallest ridge's highest vineleaf maple, when the rosy fingers faded into blue behind the mountain, when the vineleaf's leaves shone out in scarred and blazing scarlet atop that wave-like ridge of dull alder gold a chill shot from my thighs to the top of my head, surged up on my backbone, again and again--for in that moment I felt as though an oldest, greatest, longest-lost Friend had come to walk the road, unseen beside me..."

It was raw material- awesome, malleable, older than men or worlds or water.
And it was merciless -for it let a man become precisely what he alone made of himself."First let me say that I am neither religious nor "spiritual".
I find books about discovering one's spirituality tiresome.
So with that said, let me now say that I loved this book.
I loved Gus Orviston's journey from glum member of a dysfunctional fishing family, to his time spent as an misanthropic hermit, to his awakening to the natural world and to the people around him.
I loved his evolving views on fishing.
I first read this novel in April 2004.
This novel is not just about fishing (although it helps to be a fisherman and understand the allure of the pastime) but about finding balance in life, finding one's heart and a connection to a Higher Power, of human relationships, and about stewardship (of the earth and humanity).
The book inspires me to find joy in little things, in service, in love, in standing for what is true and precious and lasting.
I recommend this book to anyone, even if you don't like fishing.
If you have never fished and want to try it, I am always available.
Unequivocally my favorite book.
The River Why incorporates everything I could ever want in a book- it's hilarious, its spiritual, it involves fishing, and it's (again) hilarious.
The book is a fictional autobiography about a man who leaves his nutty family to discover himself as a sort of recluse-fisherman.
He makes great friendships along the way, and eventually comes to appreciate his part in the bigger picture.
It's a great book, nearly impossible to categorize, but trust me when I say that this is the best piece of writing I've ever laid eyes on (and one of only two books I have re-read).
I was so drawn in by the first half of the book that I had to slow down so I didn't finish it too fast. The second half was more of a bag of bits and pieces and the religiosity when it came, came as a bit of an unwelcome surprise. So not a perfect polished gem of a book - but perhaps that was a good thing - the eclectic mix lets you enjoy what you want and pass by what you don't want. The book is philosophy, not fishing, and absorbing, stimulating and fun.
I don’t think I’ve thought of it since.Mike James, 10/19/978th PeriodDear Mrs. Adkins,	I am in the middle of the book The River Why on page 57 of 294 pages.
The main character is Gus Orviston (the narrator) who fishes excessively on River Why. I’m not sure yet why it’s called the River Why, but I was looking at the table of contents, and saw the word “Why” written like [a cursive, meandering, scrawled] “Why”.
I think this book is very original and funny in its own clever way, and so far, is one of the better books I’ve read.
The narrator's humor also worked for me, though I doubt it will for everyone.I think the level on which this book resonated with me the most was its connection of spirituality and nature.
That had conflict, change, depth - Gus and Eddy together just feels flat, as if she's his reward for growing up some and learning to think about people other than himself.Overall - a worthwhile read, for me at least, but stylistically definitely something you have to be in the mood for.
If you're feeling meditative and missing wild places, this might work for you too.
This is the first book I ever read by David James Duncan.
This book has a little of everything for me.
He walks us through all of his rebellions and all of his reconciliations with a wry wit and a compassion for each side of every circumstance along the way.His story encouraged me to continue to be a thinking, reading man and encouraged me to be a more environmentally conscientious fisherman.
What's more is that he did all that with a story that made me laugh my ass off all the way through it.
One of my most often read books.
This book changed my understanding of what writing, what a novel, could be.
It is filled with heart and outrage, pathos and meaning without being saccharine and condescending.I've read this book at least ten times, twice out loud to my wife.
My copy has fallen apart, and today I found a mint condition one in my local used book store.
My finding it is a perfect synchronicity because this is a perfect belated fiftieth birthday present for my friend BH.I highly recommend this book to everyone who likes their philosophical quests to be meaningful and funny.
For the love of god. Put down your young adult fiction and romance novels and read this book. A beautifully written coming of age tale complete with existential crisis, family dysfunction and romance. This is the sort of book that feels like moving from your childhood home upon finishing. I will miss the characters and wonder how they are getting along in the world for the rest of my life. I will be re-reading this book at regular intervals until the day I die.
David James Duncan is (officially) one of my favorite authors. Largely because of this book.
I had to stop reading this book due to a short time constraint to read another book, but I was eager as ever to get back to this and was hooked (again, puns!) again and more than ever.Duncan's writing is magnificent.
There wasn't a single character I didn't like throughout the entire story, and even if there was a small peculiarity about someone I didn't expect or cling to with fondness, it would still fit perfectly with how the author wanted them depicted.
He could not have done a better job at bringing to life these people.I have never had such emotion elicited out of me from reading a book; shows that I really need to read more novels, right?
At the time I thought that it was more of a philosophical/religious book.
I believe that the book is fairly good.
Other characters include Gus' Father and mother, Billy, H2o and others.
It seems the author was trying to create comical characters.
Gus's experience throughout the chapters revolved around some of those characters.
As to the tiltle, the author derived it purely from Gus' imagination.
There were times when during these monologues he saw the river forming the question why?
And during those times he thought it wise to answer the river.
After this experince, I will not be reading it any time soon.

This is a meandering story about fishing and loneliness and love.
About need and greed.
And when he does he realizes that fishing is not about measuring: how many, how big.
And "that the world is strange; it is a world where no matter who you are or where you live or what you eat or whether you choose or don't choose to understand and be grateful, it is sacrifice that sustains you.
And so we killed two trout.
then killed their bodies to sustain our own."
4.5 Really, really good. Described profound spiritual awakening/rebirth/some kind of conversion journey in a way that felt palpable, refreshing, genuine, & not cliched. Downright funny, too.
