https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/129044.Ride_the_Dark_Trail
I mean aren't westerns supposed to be for old dudes?
I mean...why do old dudes like westerns?
I think In the case of Virgil, Everett and Logan, well, I can't think of any girl who wouldn't fall in love with these guys!
I met Logan Sackett in my first Louis L'Amour book ever, Ride the Dark Trail.
Logan is a drifter from Tennessee who ends up in Colorado where Em Talon, a woman in her 60s, is trying to defend her home and land from a dirtbag in town and his boys who want to take it from her.
Logan Sackett goes far beyond measure to make sure Em Talons homestead ranch does not get into bad hands...Jack Flanner tries to force the old woman to give up the ranch and its fertile ranching grounds, and it appears as much he will succeed..
Until Logan Sackett alone, seemingly turns the tide of fortune to one where the ranch maybe saved...
Just maybe.A great tale of the great West American Frontier, full of the best and the worst of what the old west had to offer.
No law, just men settling things among themselves, sometimes the hard way.A truly great novel, one of the best I have ever read.
The plot turns are awfully convenient, but I love the language, and then there's useful stuff like this:"I'd backed up against that grove on purpose.
The book had some problems I found hard to ignore.The "useful stuff" I admired above was an instance, I came to see, of L'Amour's tendency to cache gobbets of undigested research here and there (how's that for a disgusting image?
undigested research, ew!).The convenience of the plot turns was annoying ("What, there's no way into the ranch, you say?
And, L'Amour has a bad habit of telegraphing the plot, too-- in one paragraph he'll be all, Oh, no!
I enjoyed this story this is the second time that Logan Sackett has shown up in one of these stories.
They can work hard, track as well as most Indians and they never shoot unless it is to kill.This was a good story and for most of it you are hoping that the Emily Talon's sons will show up in time to help with the people trying to run their Mom off her place.
She grew up in the Tennessee mountains and is as good a shot and any Sackett male.
I understand that Milo shows up in two other books by Louis L'Amour.
Always enjoy reading the works of Louis L'Amour. He tells nice tales of western adventures, allowing myself an welcome fictional journey into the old west. This book from the Sackett series brings Logan Sackett along the trail to meet Emily Talon (a Sackett prior to her marriage) who is in deep trouble. Needless to say he stays to help.
Good entry in the Sackett's series as Logan Sackett comes to help Em Talon (a Sackett by birth) keep her ranch out of the hands of a land grabber. Her sons, Milo & Barnabas, are also on hand, but this is Logan Sackett's tale. Recommended to all western and L'Amour fans.
Good book. I skimmed through the last few pages because I was tired of reading all the details and narration and wanted to get the the final shootout. But I liked the characters and the plot.
Another good, solid addition to the Sackett series by Louis L'Amour. A quick read with a satisfying ending.REcommended for Western fans.
I really liked this book, not so much for Logan Sackett as for Emily Talon who was born a Sackett.
I would love to be as tough and brave as she can be.Of course there are bad guys galore; it wouldn't be much of a story to have the hero ride into town and ride out without anything happening.
I enjoyed the description of the land as well as the way that the characters thought out why they were doing what they were doing.Easily read as a stand-alone tale, it does do better to read it in series order (either chronological or publication) so to pick up more nuances.
MEET EMILY SACKETT TALONThe Sackett Clan are all over the country. Primarily Tennessee Mountains. They all are sturdy strong men. Some are educated others can barely read or write. This adventure we get to meet Emily Sackett Talon of the Cumberland Sacketts.. Logan Sackett whose twin is Nolan Sackett makes his debut...men and women to ride the river with...The Sackett Series is well worth reading love them especially William Tell Sackett..ENJOY
I just realized the reason that I like westerns and mysteries is that the good guys always win out in the end. This one is no exception. This is one the Sackett series and I love the theme throughout, that the clan sticks together. In this one Logan Sackett is the star. Great reading. Once started these books are hard to put down.
Action packed. Great western.As with all of this author's books the action starts early and continues to the end. The characters are heroes to root for or villains to root against. The characters are flawed, as most of us are, but try to do the right thing. I enjoyed this book and would recommend it to anyone who enjoys a good western.
This is an excellent Sackett story. Logan Sackett finds some family in an unexpected location and takes position to protect a fellow Sackett. This is an great adventure. Everyone should experience this story.
Another good read!Good stuff, this!! You'll enjoy every valley, peak an' fight! L'Amour is a story teller DE-lux! I've read nigh every one of his 126 books twice and most of them several times over the past five decades!
This is a typical L'Amour book, where one of the clan gets into trouble and the family comes together to save the day. It's not the same Sacketts every time, some new ones get introduced into the mix but if you like L'Amour's style of story telling and dialogue you should enjoy this.
Entertaining as the 1st one. My journey is ending. The sacketts have provided me countless hours of entertainment. This book like the rest provided easy reading, fast paced story line. I'll be sorry to see the series end.
Excellent book.
What more can I say of Luis l'amour western books!Once you start you have to finish, just can't put the books down!
3.5 stars
A good read I always enjoy the L'Amour writing and this is as good as it gets. Pure escapism with a clear message.
Always a good read with honor and integrity.
Can't go wrong with Louis L'Amour.
This book once again proves why Louis L'Amour was the best writer of old west. If you like westerns, just about any L'Amour book is worth the read.
Great book...Wonderful story. Being from Tennessee myself, family clans are still there. An enemy or friend of one is of all.
Logan Sackett is a man who left his home and life of Tennessee and went west. He wanted to find a better life and have an opportunity to succeed. The story has a great plot line of the Sackett family, Logan Helps a widow in Colorado to save her land. He will do anything it takes to help Emily Talon, a Sackett of Tennessee as well. The story ends on a typical western with a happy ending, Em keeps her land and Logan begins to travel again, one again searching for his possibility for a new life in the west.
And who is the old lady anyway?Emily Talon, formerly Sackett, aunt to Logan Sackett.What Louis L'Amour just needs to explore more is strong female lead characters.
So it's refreshing to have another strong female character.Regardless, knowing that this story centers around Emily, I was excited.
Unfortunately, Logan Sackett takes center stage most of the book, and even finds himself in some mighty convenient situations that he can get himself out of (or someone else gets him out of).
Even better, no one got the girl.There are some chapters that run long, and as I mentioned, Logan finds himself in some mighty convenient situations that he pulls out of.
Fans of Louis L’Amour’s Sackett books know that quite a few of the books focus on three brothers, Tell, Orrin, and Tyrel. There are also a good number of books in the series that focus on other Sacketts; cousins to the three brothers or other such relations.  Ride the Dark Trail  keys in on Logan Sackett of the Clinch Mountain Sacketts.All Sacketts are tough, but the Clinch Mountain Sacketts are especially known to be hard men who skirt the edges of the law. In spite of his reputation, Logan Sac
Fans of Louis L’Amour’s Sackett books know that quite a few of the books focus on three brothers, Tell, Orrin, and Tyrel.
And above all else, even the Clinch Mountain Sacketts know that nothing is more important than kin.That’s why, when Logan runs across Em Talon, desperately trying to defend her home and her land from those who would take it for themselves, he can’t help but step in on her side.
The bad guys are about to find out that when you buy trouble with a Sackett, you are investing in a whole heap of misery.Narrator Terrence Mann handles L’Amour’s audiobooks very well.
I'm pretty sure I've read all of Louis L'Amour's books.
I know by certain standards they lack depth of plot and character, but I don't care about any of that.
I love these books.Reading Louis L'Amour is like eating a really awesome peanut butter and jelly sandwich.
You know exactly what you're going to get, and you love it.
You generally get a really good fist fight, and a shootout with the bad guys.
Likes: Well, I love Logan.
When he's all shot up and still fighting, I love him most.Dislikes: Nothing.
Even if there's anything to dislike I don't care, I love it anyway.
Logan Sackett is featured in this 1972 series entry; his twin brother Nolan was featured in #13 Mustang Man (1966).
In this entry, Logan is wandering when he comes upon a lone widow besieged by a land grabber and his men.
She turns out to be Em Talon née Sackett.
Milo also appears in Milo Talon (1981) which is not in the Sackett series.Sackett Titles #16 - Logan Sackett is wild and rootless, riding west in search of easy living.
Then he meets Emily Talon, a fiery old widow who is even wilder than he is.
Emily Talon née Sackett is one fierce old widowed lady, probably a darlin' Corey in the days of her youth (...she had a 44 strapped around her body and a banjo on her knee...).
My chief complaint is that Em appears frequently at the beginning of the book, but then the attention shifts to Logan as Em quietly steps into the background where another potentially strong female character hides in Pennywell Farman.
That promise isn't developed in this book but, while the end of the Sackett series draws nigh, I know there's a spin-off series, the Talon and Chantry novels, and I'm hoping to see more of Pennywell (maybe Em too) in one of those books.
