https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/50146.Goodbye_Tsugumi
As if these people I love and this town are going to vanish from the very face of the earth, a feeling so overwhelmingly bright I can't stand to look at it straight.
Her craft lies in exalting the ordinary and the everyday truths of life's many baffling dichotomies to transcendental wisdom and in converting ambiguous characters to people of flesh and blood who cannot help surrendering before the promise of love which accosts them in their most vulnerable moments.
I was thoroughly taken by Maria trying to come to terms with the changes in her life, and Tsugumi ceaselessly going forward without a care in the world.
“The world of ours is piled high with farewells and goodbyes of so many different kinds, like the evening sky renewing itself again and again from one single instant to the next – and I didn’t want to forget a single one.”Goodbye Tsugumi, as the name suggests, is a novel whose waves are anchored on the ends and partings we have to face in life.
Ceaselessly, the thoughts of Maria drift to the sea, and every time she understands to appreciate the things around her.
From the time she was born, Tsugumi was ridiculously frail, and she had a whole slew of physical ailments and defects. Her doctors announced that she would die young and her family began preparing for the worst. Of course everyone around her spoiled her like you wouldn’t believe. I loved "Kitchen" by this author but I actually prefer this book. What it is, I've really tried to fathom it out, basically is that it comes down to the simplicity in the style of writing. Having said that, I've read
If one spends so much time on one’s own, one really reflects and the mind and emotions can run wild, especially with the imagination and yet, I feel, one can be so enriched by this.The story is told by her cousin Maria, who appears to be somewhat in awe of Tsugumi and is spending her final summer with her by the sea at Tsugumi’s parents’ inn, before she moves to be with her family in Tokyo and then go to university there.Initially Maria was not too enamoured with Tsugumi but slowly this recedes and love soon replaces it.
The ideas and themes covered sounded very interesting, and while Yoshimoto's descriptions of scenery are well-written, the characters seemed to lack depth, and didn't really encourage a feeling of sympathy.
I've given the benefit of the doubt as the process of translation may subtract from the original.
While the descriptions of scenery were well written, and Yoshimoto made some interesting and thought-provoking points, the characters spoilt the book for me.
I might recommend this book to young teenagers but as adult reading it really didn't do it for me.
If another translation came out I'd re-read it though.
Tôi luôn luôn mơ về một vùng biển vắng người, xung quanh yên tĩnh, đứng trước biển và hít thở cái mùi mặn mòi mà gió ngoài khơi đẩy vào bờ, hoặc nằm ườn mình trên một băng ghế dưới những bóng nắng lấp lánh như hoa và đọc sách.
Vậy là mùa hè tuyệt vời nhất đối với tôi.Tôi không biết Tugumi còn sống hay không, tôi không trả lời được, tác giả cũng nói ở phía cuối bức thư ngỏ, nhưng tôi tin rằng cô sống mãi, với những cá tính riêng biệt của cô, với những khát khao cho một cuộc sống đẹp đẽ hơn sau mùa hè cuối cùng ấy.Trong truyện cũng có một chiếc hố.
Without even noticing what you’re doing, you open up your heart and just start talking to the person next to you—you talk as if you have no audience but the glittering stars, far overhead.” “Each one of us continues to carry the heart of each self we've ever been, at every stage along the way, and a chaos of everything good and rotten.
We try to be as nice as we can to the people we love, but we alone support the weight of ourselves.” “For ten years I had been protected, wrapped up in something like a blanket that had been stitched together from all kinds of different things.
No obstante, la pareja no esconderá su relación a ojos de los demás antes de que se produzca este hecho, lo cual no es nada común en un pequeño pueblo tan atado a sus tradiciones y costumbres.Como tercer punto señalaría la importancia que le da la autora al amor como forma de cambiar y revitalizar a Tsugumi a pesar de su larga enfermedad, mostrando ésta una actitud totalmente diferente en presencia del chico que le gusta.La forma de escritura y la traducción son correctas, y es un libro que no tiene ninguna dificultad para ser leído.
En ninguno de japoneses que he leído, se ha traducido en una falta de profundidad o en la carencia de arcos evolutivos de los personajes, como si me da la impresión que pasa con la literatura a este lado del mundo.Hay que tener en cuenta eso sí, que lo que llega a traducirse del japonés al español es, probablemente, lo mejor por lo que la comparación puede resultar un poco injusta, pero aún así no me parece menos válida.
I usually like Yoshimoto Banana's stories, but Tsugumi and Maria didn't offer any interesting angles or stories for me. The former was an egocentric special snowflake brat and the latter's a female Jared Kushner.The evocation of an idyllic seaside town was cool but even that couldn't save the novel from Tsugumi. #byefelicia #byetsugumi
I can only hope for Yoshimotos's sake that A LOT was lost in the translation of this book.
It's like a middle school student wrote it.Also, what is up with this: "I can't explain this very well.
There isn't really a whole lot else to use but words--no music, no pictures, no movie.
You know, when you use phrases like that every three or four pages, they lose what little power they had to begin with.
Maria says people can't help but like her and be enchanted by her but I don't get that AT ALL.
She also has to confront Tsugumi's inner strength and the real possibility of losing her.'The main problems I had with this book were the translated word choice, the constant stating of the obvious and the ending, especially (!!!) The ending might have killed it, I might have otherwise rated it a 5 out of 5.
In a way the ending is a twist, the book is titled 'goodbye tsugumi' but ultimately, it isn't a real goodbye in terms of losing, but of learning to grow apart from one another and moving on.
I am also curious about gender and narrative constructions in works by authors who are not North American.Goodbye Tsugumi is a gentle book.
The titular character is the narrator, Maria’s cousin and she is what a mean girl would look like if one were to go near one and poke them.
The protagonist is either insecure about her looks when the mean girl is present or is indulgent and patronizing when the best friend is present.
You glean their friendship from their conversations, from their exchanges and from what is not said.This book may not be long but it contains one of the most beautiful stories I have read.
I'm glad I read this, coincidentally, as summer was ending and turning into autumn, as the whole book seems to be about the finite nature of summer.
I think she is a master of plucking vague feelings and atmospheres and weaving them into narratives so the reader has that moment of empathy or nostalgia with the characters.This book is really calming to read.
The setting is insular and the characters each sprout in radically different ways from each other which sets up great dialogue.Really I would give this 4.5 stars, it's another Yoshimoto favourite, almost on par with Kitchen.
first read, 2010: What I liked so much about this book was the mood it set. I loved the characters and the way Yoshimoto tells the story in a simple way. A really beautiful novel. I'm glad I own this one because I will definitely want to read this again.
Lo mejor de Banana no son sus historias, son las sensaciones que te produce al leerla. Con Tsugumi he sentido mucha paz. Un pequeño tedio extrañamente agradable. Es bello. Es tranquilo. Y no deja de ser una historia un tanto absurda. Pero me gusta. Cada vez me gusta más Banana. Y eso que esta novela no tiene mucho que ver con el eje central sobre el que gira el 90% de su obra.
Leer a Yoshimoto es un placer. Tengo la sensación de estar reviviendo recuerdos de hace mucho tiempo. De esos cotidianos que no tienen importancia pero que tienen mucho valor. Esa nostalgia tan bien llevada está presente todo el rato. Y como no podía ser de otro modo hay muchas referencias, de todo tipo, pero sobretodo a la muerte.
For some reason when two people sit together looking out at it, they stop caring whether they talk or stay silent.” The first person narrative is told through the eyes of Maria, an only child whose father is currently married to a woman who is not her mother, a situation which necessitates their living by the seaside with relatives while he extracts himself from the unwanted first marriage.
“I managed to read quite a lot in the intervals when I stopped letting my lazy thoughts take control.” There are books throughout this story, they play the role of relieving boredom, providing an escape and drawing Maria into a world not wholly occupied by Tsugumi.
Come dice l'autrice nel postscriptum, Tsugumi parla "di un'intensa estate di un gruppo di ragazzi che non tornerà mai più".Questa descrizione apparentemente banale racchiude in realtà l'essenza del romanzo, imbevuto di nostalgia e sempre in equilibrio tra gioia e malinconia; i protagonisti sono consapevoli che quelli saranno gli ultimi momenti insieme prima che tutto cambi e cercano di vivere ogni esperienza al massimo, sovrapponendo i ricordi alla realtà.C'è molta poesia nel libro, non solo nelle splendide descrizioni dei paesaggi ma soprattutto nelle piccole cose: uno scambio di sguardi, una lacrima, perfino una passeggiata col cane racchiudono significati nascosti.
This was a slow but pleasant read, with a few meaningful moments dotted along the way.
Tsugumi on the other hand just felt very...forced.
She's had a very rough childhood and that obviously leaves its mark, but she always felt more like a plot device than anything else.The story itself was enjoyable and interesting enough to keep me turning the pages, but it just seemed to fall a little flat towards the end.
A nice enough read if you fancy something light, but I'm not sure it quite hits the mark on what it set out to achieve.
Brilliant.
Banana Yoshimoto is the 3rd or 4th Japanese author I have read, and I'm noticing a trend.
It's hard to describe butI'll try anyway.
All of the characters I read about in these Japanese novels seem to be so clear headed, so honest in expressing their feelings, and so calm.
It has the calming effect.
It makes me wonder if this isn't just some coincidence in writing style but perhaps the Japanese people are just like that.
Anyway, I thoroughly enjoyed Goodbye Tsugumi.
Banana Yoshimoto captures an emotion that occurs in many day to day things that is very elusive so masterfully.

Esta ha sido de las novelas de Yoshimoto que más me han gustado. Cargada de una melancolía preciosa y llena de imágenes en las que el mar es protagonista, Yoshimoto logra una de sus obras más íntimas y maravillosas.
I love this book - ever since I picked it up, years ago, it's been my go-to, feel-good novel.
The story is simple, yet calming, and the characters are enough to hold the story on their own.
Either way, the few hours it takes to read it are always wonderful.
Soothing.It's not fancy litterature - I wouldn't use it as a teaching tool, or even as an exemple of a 'good' book.
I think it's one of these novels that either touch you, or doesn't.
In my case, it's the soft words and wonderful characters that stay with me with every rereading.
Typical Banana Yoshimoto story… and I mean that positively ;) It's a story about a summer vacation on an island, back in the protagonist's home town. There she spends time with Tsugumi, her friend with a particular character. True to her style, it's also a story about goodbyes, one which doesn't feel heavy at all though.I especially liked how Banana uses smells and weather descriptions. A few simple words are enough to guide our imagination and create the scenery. It really makes me wish for summer… I might just start planning my vacations (Okinawa maybe?)
I did not think it would be possible for Yoshimoto to write a better book than Kitchen.
Un libro che mi è piaciuto moltissimo La prima volta he mi approcciavo con la Yoshimoto Ora non vedo l'ora di leggere qualcos'altro di suo
Però se la si confronta con il mare, risulta talmente lontana e piccola, da sembrare, in un certo qual modo, indifesa.La sensazione di perdita di Maria è evidente: perdita di un luogo, di alcune persone, di una fase della propria vita che non tornerà più...Volevo imprimere nel mio cuore la fatica che si provava andando avanti e indietro per la strada che conduceva a quel paese, paese che alla fine dell’estate avrei perduto definitivamente.
Proprio non volevo dimenticare nessuna delle separazioni che riempivano la mia vita, numerose come le forme in cui, di momento in momento, cambiava il cielo sul volgere della sera.Per quanto riguarda i personaggi, sicuramente Tsugumi risalta più di tutti.
Ressenya completa ací: http://www.luckybuke.com/2017/11/tsug...Una lectura agradable, increïblement nostàlgica, bonica i tranquil·la. M'ha recordat molt a les novel·les juvenils que llegia en un altre temps sobre amors d'estiu, amistat i conflictes familiars, però amb un pessiguet més de profunditat. No és un novel·lón, és una història curta per gaudir plàcidament, mentre rememorem una època passada d'estius ociosos.
I first read Kitchen coupled with Moonlight Shadow and the more time passes, the more it solidifies into one of my favorite books.
This one has all the trademark characteristics of Yoshimoto's writing.
It's poetry in prose, just long enough, and she plucks the tiny strings of your heart and brain exactly as they're meant to be touched weaving this complex feeling fabric that threads through everything, the plot, the characters, your own self.
It's very evocative and slightly unusual.
One you enjoy staring at and twirling around in your hand, feeling every ridge and surface.
Makes me feel wound-y but happy.
Chẳng biết nói gì.
