https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/392850.I_ll_Take_My_Stand
If you want to understand the difference between the South and the North, this is the book to read. I particularly recommend Allen Tate's essay, "Remarks on the Southern Religion." There are lots of outdated, misogynistic, racist, and otherwise reprehensible opinions expressed in the various essays, but there is also an immense beauty to the writing and to the agrarians love for their region. It is both a proud plea for a dying culture and an elegy, a testament to what has been lost.
For the record, I managed to read Louis Rubin's 1962 introduction, the collective "Statement of Principles," John Crowe Ransom's "Reconstructed But Unregenerate," Donald Davidson's "A Mirror for Artists," and half of Frank Lawrence Owsley's "The Irrepressible Conflict" before quitting in disgust.It became apparent right away that these writers were describing an idyllic Southern way of life that only existed for a small number of the South's residents, namely the white elite.
After "explaining" that slavery was forced on the colonies by the British, he tells us why it continued after we won our independence:"Negroes had come into the Southern Colonies in such numbers that people feared for the integrity of the white race.
Who isn’t disillusioned with the idea of “Progress” in the 21st century?
It’s obvious—the use of the planets resources for the endless manufacturing of useless material stuff, the consumerist mentality, the mounting environmental disasters—business as usual will be sending humanity, collectively, headlong into the brick wall of self-annihilation.
Today, this is abundantly clear to those of us capable of seeing the macrocosmic perspective...We can look at the violent effects of rampant industrialization all around us.
Then the invocation of the savior “Progress” still had an incantatory sway upon the popular and intellectual mind.
But more than that, what is written within is just as relevant, if not more so, today.
Between complete moral freedom without leisure to enjoy it and maximum leisure with a minimum of freedom there was some critical eutectic point at which one could hope to attain one's fullest powers and find the richest of satisfactions consonant with one's nature."However, the book is instructive mostly for historical purposes because of its implicit, and sometimes explicit, defense of racial hierarchy as part of Southern agrarianism.
The book's failure reminds me of our current relationship to the past and tradition: Many conservatives want to keep too much and progressives want to abandon it completely.
I'll Take My Stand remains of value to modern readers, however, in offering both an appreciation of the Old South's culture beyond stereotypes and a critique of the automatic cheering-on of anything called progress.I first heard of the 'Southern Agrarians', the symposium gathered here, in Russell Kirk's The Conservative Mind, and the books are of like temperament in promoting an measured conservative response to cultural change.
I was sosososo hoping to like this book.
I knew I'd like the topic (Agrarian South), but would I enjoy a bunch of 30-paged essays written by authors I'd never heard of before (give or take a few).
And it wasn't even the fact that they were essays that made me not like this book; that part I totally enjoyed.
I did get enough out of this book to know that someday, maybe soon, I'd like to learn more about the Agrarian South.The essays I liked:The Hind Tit by Andrew Nelson LytleThe Irrepressible Conflic by Frank Lawrence OwsleyandEducation, Past and Present by John Gould Fletcher
Though philosophically interesting at parts, these essays all seem very strange today.
I'm sure there were plenty of aristocratic planters who could serve as evidence, and certainly Virginia had the best statesmen, but it still seems true that the centers of learning were in the North and that the "average" Southerner was excluded from all of this, being a busy laborer of the land with hardly enough extra means to provide for extended education.
The vision of "the good life" is the most compelling part of these essays, but it hitches itself to the economic vision which is certainly irretrievable now.
I learned about this book from reading George Nash's The Conservative Intellectual Movement in America Since 1945. I'll Take My Stand is actually a collection of essays written by various Southern belletrists. From the perspective of one who wants to understand conservatism, I'll Take My Stand illuminates a strand of American conservatism that often goes unnoticed. Although conservatism is typically thought of as being laissez-faire and pro-corporation, I'll Take My Stand reveals an anti-corporate side to conservatism. A couple of the essays are mind-numbingly boring (not to mention extraneous), but overall, I feel like the book is refreshingly informative.
I have great sympathy for this point of view.The weakest part of the book is the modern introduction (not the one originally prepared as the first essay), by Susan Donaldson.
She insists that it is about racial prejudice, though most of the essayists seem to care about the plight of the blacks, just as they do for the poor whites.
The book is about the exploitation of modern industrialism, which was failing the entire south especially the black population.
When they talk about the plight of the south, they are including whole families--men, women and children--not just wealthy white males.
Nothing remained unaffected in the South after the Civil War. In a way, the emergence of the industrial movement from the North forced all Southerners, all races and ethnicity together against this progressive northern movement.
It was assumed that modernization would be a positive move for the South, however, these twelve authors make a compelling case against why the very nature of Southern ways, manners, heritage, land, religion, and agriculture would not prosper from the change.
With Northern progression came the eradication of true Southern history.
For these twelve authors, progress meant destroying the Southern mind.
This is an amazing collection of essays written by Southern poets, historians and novelists. It was published in 1930, just as the great depression was taking hold of the United States by the throat. It was a plea to maintain the southern agrarian tradition in the face of the industrialism of the North. This slim book of thoughts remind us of much that was fine and gentle that was lost.
And, as these traditions were being removed the world over, the Agrarians, following the evidence, might have reached the conclusion that this stage of the Church was coming to an end, and the solution to modernity, even if it existed in theory within a nation of the former Christendom, could not be retained in practise without either 1) a full-scale restoration of the old Christendom, or 2) a truly revolutionary sequence of events ending with the establishment of a new Christendom.Nevertheless, it WAS the South's duty to fight modernity, and, had she possessed an unheard of degree of moral courage coupled with an unusually dedicated leadership, she might have succeeded in starting that revolutionary sequence of events right there--or if not that, at least finding a way to maintain a Christian society based on an agrarian economy, and yet somehow function within a world that had dedicated its whole soul to modernity.
Like all writing of a conservative cast before the 1960s, these essays, were they written today, would be called "alt-right," in the sense that they assume real differences between the races in aggregate capacity and inclination and propose to address a more or less homogeneous racial community of whites as a race existing both in-itself and for-itself, i.e. with real political interests that can be legitimately articulated in policies and positions.
Can't agree more with the lost cause of the Southern Agrarians.
Splendid isolation dead.This is not the vision that is in the blood of American soil.This is more the vision of the anti-Christ run amuck (so to speak).
Manners dead.
Civility dead.
Art dead.
The Southern Tradition at bay.
The Southern Tradition dead.
The lost cause.
Wendell Berry writes much in this vein today in much the same manner.The celebrated pessimism of the yeoman farmer who sees an America for what is by what it once was.
A defense of Agrarianism and what was valuable in the Old South masterfully rendered by a collection of authors from various backgrounds, I'll Take My Stand posits some of the most pressing issues confronting modern man, and illustrates how those issues might be confronted by a reevaluation of progress and a re-enforcement of tradition.
This renders I'll Take My Stand useful not only for those interested in historiography but also in our present state of affairs I would recommend I'll Take My Stand to anyone interested in the historical and cultural legacy of the Old South and anyone interested in Americana of the early 20th century
Written by the Twelve "Fugitives" from Vanderbilt, this books is a timeless look at the benefits of the Southern agrarian life over and against the crass industrialism of the North.When it was written, it appeared inevitable to the authors that industrialization was coming to their beloved South; they wrote these essays to warn against uncritical acceptance of that fate.
Except for a small remnant, even Southerners have been fooled by the siren call of "Progress".This book should be read by all, Northerners and Southerners alike, to help us remember that there is a good life consisting in love of the land, leisure, and small town communities that is being destroyed by the suburbanization of nearly every formerly distinct town in America.
A good book in light of issues facing the nation today, and a good way of learning what Southerners were worried about in the 1920's. Some of the essays are pretty dense, and you can sense that while they want to retain the simpler mode of life, they knew it was fast slipping away. It left me with a distinct nostalgia because the South has changed significantly just since I was a kid. We've lost most of our distinctiveness.
Extremely interesting views of the mythical South. Sometimes I felt like Stephen Colbert was writing the text and other times I felt like it was quoting The Matrix (kill the machines!). It also reminded me of The Omnivore's Dilemma with its ideas of abusing the land and getting back to simpler, non-industrial times. They were very passionate about this beautiful ideal, but they never seemed to be able to provide the concrete facts to back it up.
an excellent book, and still relevant after 75 years. the authers speak about "progress", industrialization, and the relationship between human society and nature, particularly as it relates to the artists. there are some racial issues which much be taken into account, but still an excellent manifesto
This is a collection of incredibly well written essays whose subjects are contrary to modern social ideas, but telling of the time and culture in which they were written. They are definitely a way to get to know the post-reconstruction, yet not fully changed, South.
The agrarian lifestyle of Jefferson and the South was in contradiction to the North's money grubbing fast-moving industrial lifestyle. These authors saw the writing on the wall. We still are suffering the demise of living on and working the land.
A good read. It is interesting to see how opinions have, or haven't, changed in the past several decades.
This book is an all-time favorite of mine. I try to read it every year.
If you grew up in the deep, dreamy south, this glorious collection of essays--once considered an important cultural statement--is bucolic nostalgia nonpareil.
Outstanding.
Fantastic.
For me it was a hard read but I truly enjoyed reading it.
