https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/823069.The_Cabin_Faced_West
I'm catching up on the independant readers my daughter has read for school this year.
Their daughter struggles, as she has left behind her friends, school and all she knew.
Although it is a pioneer story, it is much more driven by the development of Ann and her struggle to accept the changes in her life.
A visit from George Washington helps her finally accept her new life.
If you are looking for a day to day description of pioneering life "Little House on the Prairie" is a better choice.
Just finished reading this aloud to my kids (ages 7 & 5). They loved it and both gave it 5 stars, I suspect mainly because of the special guest appearance of General George Washington. What a treat to know that the author wrote this story based on her great-great-grandmother’s real-life experience! We enjoyed learning about Ann Hamilton and her family.
The boys and I read this as a history read-aloud. The descriptions of the setting are beautifully written but other than that, there's not much else to it. I found it kind of boring and after reading it, I remember thinking the same thing when I read it alone in elementary school.
I liked how the author thoroughly described scenes such as the view from the top of the mountain, the personality of the neighbor boy, Andy McPhale, and Ann Hamilton's ride with George Washington's personal doctor whom rode with him to the west, Dr. Craik.
One day when Ann has ran away from the house down to the road shortly after they moved into the cabin, she sat down to write in her diary soon being annoyed by the neighbor Andy McPhale.
I also recommend this book to anyone who enjoys reading about this time era, when people traveled west in their covered wagons to explore the new land for the country.
: )
All four children were gathered around me, as I read this one and it's first three chapters aloud as planned in the Memoria Press 3M Classical Core Curriculum.
While the third grader herself sat with wrapt attention as she finished her dinner.We've had crazy school breaks with holidays, health crisis, flu illness, vacation road trips and more.
But we have finally finished reading The Cabin Faced West as recommended by Memoria Press 3M Classical Core Curriculum.
We've all enjoyed this read aloud for American Studies.
I also gratefully appreciate the American Studies Discussion Guide for 3rd Grade.
I enjoyed this more than I expected to, which is always a treat. Though I knew what was coming in the afterword- it felt true throughout. Tears filled my eyes twice, once about a man on a horse, and once at the very end. The pure joy of being a child in the woods is captured with grace herein, as well as the longing for nice plates once in a while. There's a beautiful passage about shoes that is really about what happens when you wait for some other day to do something you love today. I dug it.
A sweet little story about a girl living on the Western Frontier.
Of course, it's 1784, so "Western Frontier" really means western Pennsylvania.
I love reading stories like this: based on true events but fleshed out to be a great way to introduce history to kids.
Definitely reminded me of the "Little House" books, but that's not a bad thing.
I loved the character of Ann and her determination to find a way to be brave.
She doesn't realize that it's the little things that add up to bravery - which makes a great message for any kid trying to find themselves.
I loved this book as a kid and I read it often. I don't know why I loved it so much, but I still remember all the details and such. It was one of the only books I read over and over at that age. I suppose it was because I wanted to be that little girl who met George Washington. Anyhow, this book brings back fond memories.
The one thing I thought was cool about this book was that I totally thought that the girl should marry a guy in the book (she was only ten at the time and he was 19) and at the end it said she did end up marrying him. (It's a true story.)
great story, i like how they taught there kids not to conplain and to be happy about stuff, and how to love things even if they are not the things that they wanted,
Borrowed. It reminded me of the Little House books.
Nice and short for younger readers. Not especially deep, but still evocative of the time and place. The author's note makes it special. Good as a precursor to more substantial historical fiction.
The perfect story to read after our visit to Mount Vernon, Virginia. :) We loved it!
Ann Hamilton is a young lady who is living on the west Pennsylvania frontier with her family.
She is the only young girl on Hamilton Hill, and she wishes very often that she was back in Gettysburg with her best friend and cousin, Margaret.
I really like the fact that Ann Hamilton is a real person, the author's great-great-grandmother.
And they really did get a visit on Hamilton Hill from a very important person.
One of my favorite quotes:"Roads are different from streets, Ann thought.
Streets are businesslike and only expected things happen on them, but roads have moods and mysteries and secrets to tell and promises to make around every corner."
I read this years ago in a 4th grade reader.
I came across a copy of the reader a few years back and bought it because I so loved this story.
In short, it's about a little girl (Ann Hamilton) whose entire life changes when her family moves west.
Fifty years later, the story is still a good one, although I don't think Ann really needed George Washington to help her figure out that eveything was going to be alright in the new place, she could have done that on her own.
Ann Hamilton is based off of a real person, though some of how this story works out is fictionalized.
There is historic evidence of something that occurs in the story at the end though.The story is set after the Revolutionary War. The Hamilton family moved a bit west of Gettysburg, where they had previously lived.
They have a small cabin and Ann has a vegetable garden and is teaching a boy to read and write.
Her family always tells her "some day" but really, she just wants to go back home.
This is certainly one of those "coming of age" sorts of stories.
A nice story of a young girl and her daily life after moving west with her family. This story based on true events and soft words is quite a nice read. The feel of the book is soft and lightly breezy. I liked the way the auther entwined the adventures of daily life in a new p!ace with longing for past comforts. Ann misses school her female cousins kinship and yet is learning to love her new home so much .
I really really liked this book. I’m 11 (about to be 12) and I read this and I forget if I had to for school or if I just wanted to but at first it was boring. I didn’t really like it and our book was an older copy so the print was smaller and it was hard to read but I continued to read it. And it is one of my favorites!! I really love old timey books like this and it is just amazing!!! Would recommend for ages 8-13
Young Ann learns to love her new Pennsylvania home and meets George Washington.This is a simple, old-fashioned book. Ann misses her friends and her former home and has trouble making the new place, with its struggle to thrive and violent storms, fit into her heart. This was published in 1958 but still holds up as a solid read.
This is a quick read for a child looking for an historical fiction, with characters from the author's family history, that offers a simple look at life on the western frontier, insights into some of the hardships as well as good times, and a real surprise ending if you don't read the jacket cover! A good choice for a children's book club.
Ann Hamilton moved to western Pennsylvania but she surely misses her friends and her old home life here is hard and lonely there are no girls here of her age but a little walk always. Help her but one evening a stranger arrived on the hills and it surely will be a party...great book
Provided us with the perfect bridge to travel westward in our American history journey-from the Revolutionary War to the time of pioneers. Simple and beautiful, I liked it far more than I expected. A quick read, but deeper than the plain words. Brought me to tears a few times!
Ann and her family move to the frontier of western Pennsylvania in late 1700's. Ann has difficulty adjusting because she misses her life in Gettysburg. Due to the euro-christian manifest destiny attitude, this story hasn't aged well.
What a sweet story of perseverance and courage told through the eyes of a little girl. This was a favorite read aloud with my 8yo daughter. We both especially loved the historical notes of the author!
Children's historical fiction to honor the author who recently passed away. Good story about people who were real; the author's family. I would love to go explore the area where this book was set.
A good story based on true events in history. I loved the ending!
Good book. Read it and also bought a copy to give as a gift.
I read this one for our library. It's the type of story that was my FAVORITE when I was in school!
This book will convict you as a mom, encourage you and make you cry! Be ready with some tissues and your kids asking you why you are crying!
