https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/784664.As_Far_as_My_Feet_Will_Carry_Me
بالاخره برای انسان روزی میرسد که به هرچیزی عادت میکند، حتی مردن - برداشت آزاد از کتاب وطن من کجاست؟به گذشتهام که نگاه میکنم، از جایی به بعد تنها کاری که به جد و جهد کردهام فرار کردن است، تصمیمهایی که همگی بویی از تسلیم شدن میدهند.
حتی در کابوسهای بیشمارم، بدون حتی یک مورد استثنا، همیشه در حال فرار کردن از موقعیتی، چیزی یا کسی بودهام.
این کتاب هم از عنوانش مشخص است که حول چه محوری میچرخد : فرار.
اما فرار افسر آلمانی، بورل از نقطهای دور افتاده در سیبری از جنسی دیگر است.
مقاومت و امید تا آخرین نفس
بالاخره برای انسان روزی می‌رسد که به هرچیزی عادت می‌کند، حتی مردن - برداشت آزاد از کتاب وطن من کجاست؟به گذشته‌ام که نگاه می‌کنم، از جایی به بعد تنها کاری که به جد و جهد کرده‌ام فرار کردن است، تصمیم‌هایی که همگی بویی از تسلیم شدن می‌دهند.
کتاب، روایت واقعی فرار یک افسر آلمانی از اردوگاه کار اجباری در منتهی‌الیه شمال شرقی قاره آسیا تا خاورمیانه، در سرزمینی یخ زده، بدون غذا و سرپناه است.
حین خواندن شرح این مبارزه، بارها یاد دیالوگی از فیلم در جستجوی خوشبختی موچینو افتادم، آنجا که کریس گاردنر مفلس به کودکش می‌گوید هرگز به کسی اجازه نده بهت بگه نمی‌تونی کاری رو انجام بدی، حتی من#کتاب‌خوانی_در_پادگان
This book had been sitting awhile in my bookcase, when after recently watching the Polish film (fictional) “The Way Back” (2010), I was reminded of Bauer’s book.There is a b/w photograph on the back cover, showing the back of the principal protagonist, Clemens Forell (an alias), who faces the author and his publisher.
Wikipedia [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/As_Far_a...] casts doubt on the veracity of the “As Far As My Feet Will Carry Me”; whereas the New York Times review of the 2001 film [http://www.nytimes.com/movies/movie/2...] is more subtle in planting the idea that perhaps a story can grow into the role of an epic of war.
You know those really good story tellers.
Well that is what this story is missing.
The author is pretty lame.
It feels like somebody droning on and on with the same voice of the guy who says "Bueller." There is probably around 50 or so pages that is actually enjoyable.
The 50 pages that I liked were when the escaped prisoner joins up with 3 other escaped convicts and their adventures together.
The thing I like least about the book is the writing.
It is pretty bad.
The whole escape story is epic...but this book doesn't do his story justice.
I am not one to criticize the authors experience or willingness to share his escape.
I was engrossed in the book and constantly referring to encounters with the map.
I grew alarmed as 4/5 of the book had been covered and approx half of the Soviet Union had been crossed.
When he returned ragged and starving to the Jew that eventually helped him escape, it seemed to me an interesting segment of history could have been revealed.
My guess is that at this stage the author was so traumatized from his experience that the last half of the map covered in hos travels simply did not register as firmly as the first.
Basically a German prisoner of war escapes from the Siberian lead mines and walks halfway across Russia, with all the adventure that that entails: wolves, bears, outlaws, reindeer men, etc.
But at times I wondered whether everything I was reading was true.
For instance, at one point the main character falls in with some Russian outlaws, and together they basically re-enact the plot of The Treasure of the Sierra Madre, right down to the little baggies of alluvial gold, betraying and murdering each other out of greed.
And it was just so incongruous with the rest of the plot that I had to wonder.
A really good survival book. A German prisoner is brought to the very east of Siberia together with many other prisoners of war to be a slave. He gets help from a doctor to escape and then the story gets really interesting. All the struggles he had to endure, it is hard to comprehend even after reading this book.I really enjoyed reading it. Loved his dog. Wished that the end had been a bit more prolonged though.
This was a great book! Perhaps I liked it because it was so similar to one of my all time favorites, The Long Walk, by Slavomir Rawicz. When I finished, I was left wishing it were longer, with more details about the last year of the journey, and what happened after he returned home. But these limitations made it more intriguing.
The best adventure story I have ever read. Need some courage? Read this book.
Entretenida y muy sufrida, la odisea del oficial Forell como prisionero de guerra y una huida que le obligará a cruzar toda Siberia si quiere llegar a su Alemania natal.Muy bien escrita y con unos pasajes realmente increíbles, descripciones que te ponen los pelos de punta. Además de contarte la situación en la que estaban los presos alemanes trabajando en las minas de plomo, también cuenta como era la vida de las gentes siberianas y lo duro que era vivir en condiciones extremas donde la mayor preocupación era la supervivencia misma.Totalmente recomendable.
Boringly average. There may be a good story in there somewhere, but not by this author
Dies wurzelt jedoch nur oberflächlich im Rassismus, mit welchem alles Russische hier bedacht wird.In erster Linie fällt einem gegen Mitte des Buches auf, dass die erzählte halbwahre Begebenheit rein gar nicht dem entspricht, was man anhand des Titels erwarten würde.
Ehrlich, ich war durchaus motiviert, So weit die Füße tragen zu lesen, vor allem da mir der Titel suggerierte, es handele sich um einen Abenteuerroman, der sich mit der Einsamkeit in Sibirien, dem psychologischen Kampf mit der härtesten Natur und folglich mit der Auseinandersetzung des Menschen mit sich selbst beschäftigt.
I signed up for an account just to write a review of warning for anyone considering this book. I’ve read an abundance of survival nonfiction novels and this is, by far, the worst one. I had to give up after 100 pages or so. The story and dialogue was confusing and completely irrelevant to what I thought would be the plot. The synopsis is completely misleading. Don’t waste your time (or money) on this.
Vzal jsem si to jako tématické čtení na dovolenou na Sibiř. Bylo to zajímavé, ale nejzajímavější jsou ta fakta, jak dlouho jedou vlakem, co jedí a tak... Jinak příběhové mě to vlastně trochu nebavilo. Asi to je tím jak moc je to podobné tě filmové verzi, kterou jsem vidět jako první.
Toss up between the long walk and as far ad my feet will carry me. Sensational story about one man's will to survive.
This was quite the incredible story. It was interesting to note how he was helped by a Jew, who knew full well that he was an escaped German soldier.
Amazing storyBut not very engaging- I slogged thru the last half just to finish. I would have liked more of the story after he made it across the border.
An exception story about one man's escape from one of Stalin's Gulag and his trek to freedom.
This is a fantastic tale of endurance and an insight into how a human will degenerate when on the edge of survival for a long time.
While the writing style is a little dated, the elements of the story will keep you going thru blizzards, wolf attacks, starvation, you name it, he survived it.
The people he meets are well described, from the doctor that helps him, to the reindeer herding peasants.
Most of the people he meets help him, which provides the better view of humanity.
In contrast, the main character is as stubborn and unpleasant as you would need to be to do what he did and survive.
Fascinating story...up to a point. The ending seemed hurried and anti-climactic.It would have been very interesting to find out if he ever let the authorities knowabout the torturous life he was forced to endure at the hands of the Russians. Alas.
However, it passed me by until I noticed it in the non-fiction section of my local library.The book tells ta harrowing real-life story.It tracks the destiny of German soldier Clemens Forrell who, in the aftermath of World War II, was sentenced to twenty-five years of forced labour in a lead mine deep in the eastern reaches of Siberia.
Forrell fled treachery and endured most inhospitable conditions.Forrell unfolded his remarkable story of survival in a long series of taped interviews with esteemed German author Josef M Bauer.
‎‎ ‎ So, if, like me, this book has passed you by thus far and you would enjoy a true adventure story.

This is a tale of a man whose will to live free and to survive took him out of a Siberian labor camp and slavery and eventual death in the lead mine there.
In his travel across Russia he was frequently in danger of betrayal by Russians who would turn him in to the authorities and by unsavory men who could easily have killed him.
To survive he had to become an accomplished thief and liar.
At so many points he could have been caught and executed by the Communist authorities.
The journey took him to the very end of himself.
Josef Martin Bauer's "As far as my feet will carry me" is the extraordinary true story of a German prisoner of war who is sentenced to work in a lead mine in Siberia.
the author is so detached from the story that it makes the book difficult to read.
I perhaps would have liked it better if it were written in the first person.This book is very similar to Slavomir Rawicz's "The Long Walk" which I've read many times.
While veracity of Rawicz's book has long been questioned (and with good reason, I think,) Bauer's book comes with a greater ring of truth to it.
In the Intro the translator/writer takes pains to say that he often stopped the book out of disbelief and spent much time trying to verify accounts.
I thought this intro was oddly long, a bit paranoid.
But you don't realize how necessary it is until you read the book.The story is beyond belief.
It's inspiring.
And the voice is from some one with nothing left to prove.
And by the last third of the book he's vividly describing the scenery, emotion and internal monologue with clean paragraphs.The story needs no emotional flourishes or poetry and it doesn't get any.
Je to už hrozně dávno, co jsem poprvé viděla film Bílé peklo a tehdy mi bylo okamžitě jasné, že knižní předloha se mi prostě musí dostat do rukou.
No, trvalo to, ale konečně se povedlo.
A je to zklamání :(Pro jednou budu zcela bezostyše tvrdit, že film je lepší než kniha.
Pro všechny knihomoly docela kacířská myšlenka, ale jo, je to tak.
Možná je ale můj pohled jen hodně subjektivní, protože film X kniha se v tomto případě i tak dost liší a obojí obsahuje události navíc.
Zabijte mě, ale ten filmový (možná více prvoplánový) příběh mě prostě dostal víc.
I understand that it might be difficult to share this kind of experience with someone else who is trying to write a story about it.
I kind of missed some happy :) ending that he would actually see his family and reader would know that.
I usually don't mind using my imagination but in this case the book ended just like that.
You have been following this man for 3 years, sharing his life and then The End and that's it.Good book and the story is a amazing but maybe I had quite high expectations and I was little bit disappointed specially towards the last few pages.
How much of this is based on any kind of fact is hard to know.
I imagine most of the journey is fiction, but time in the Gulags of Russia could be varied.
However, it was quite a funny read in places and quite emotive in others and I simply cannot comprehend the need to escape from a location so desperately.
Some of the escapades are farcical, but take into account that most is fiction but it does describe Russia and Siberia in vivid detail so it is very easy to imagine being in these places.
This is a fascinating book, relating a true-life adventure by a German prisoner of war's escape from a lead mine prison camp in far eastern Siberia (that point Sarah Palin can see from her kitchen window).
His trek across Siberia, and through several other countries, finally leads him home to Munich after 38 months.
His encounters with reindeer herders, escaped political prisoners, native Russians, another German prisoner from WWI, and others, keeps the storyline moving along.
I recommend this book to anyone interested in Russia, Siberia, and prison escape tales.
I enjoyed this book, it is a very interesting story, but a few parts of it are a bit hard to follow.
I think the story would have benefited from some additional details, though, admittedly they might have been hard to come by given that Forrell would have had to remember them all.
The second half of his journey seemed to take up very few pages in the book, which was disappointing, though the author does offer an explanation at the beginning.Despite some flaws, the feat accomplished by Forrell itself is quite impressive, and for that reason alone, this book is worth reading.
Read for my 2015 reading challenge, caterogy: A book based on a true story.
This is the story of a Germna POW sentencced to 25 yrs hard labor in the Soviet gulag in Siberia.
This is the story of how he escaped and over the course of 3 years made his way westward towards home.
The details and veracity of this account are contested, at least according to Wikipedia and the story is pretty hard to believe.
Traveling across Siberia with just the clothes on his back.
Regardless of how truthful it may or may not be, it's a gripping story and fast paced.
