https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/418871.Leonardo_da_Vinci
I’ve been a great admirer of Leonardo da Vinci since I was 12-14 years old, when, completely out of the blue, I decided that he was my favourite painter of all time (side note: not because he painted Mona Lisa!).
The only kind of Leonardo books I stayed away from was so-called classics of the study of da Vinci (say, books written before WWII).
Now, having read enough of modern and relatively modern biographies and monographs, I’ve finally decided to go for the books which formed Leonardo discourse.
Kenneth Clark and his book still live in the world where Salvator Mundi was attributed to one of Leonardo’s followers, and The Last Supper major restoration was still in process.
His greatness may not be as much as we (and he) want it to be, but his drawings still hold a power.
Out there there are lots of lifelike works and yet they remain lifeless, but Leo's sketches, for me, always seem to be able to capture the very essence, the vivacity of their subjects.This is an old book but it still serves well as a great introduction to Leo's artistic life.
Clark states carefully that he does not aim to explore Leo's achievements as a scientist, but he does mention briefly what Leo was involved with and his ambitions as well as frustrations.Martin Kemp's introduction is particularly valuable.
This is only about Leonardo as an artist. Not as a scientist, little as a person, but as an artist. There are long parts of we-are-not-sure-who-painted-this and there-is-evidence-that-this-and-that-but that I really didn't care about. Interesting but not as much as I expected.
Kenneth Clark is an interesting bag. His books were often the textbooks of Universities during the 60's and 70's. He was not a historian 'til he was given the job of protecting England's ancient treasures and arts.He even filmed a series about history. A bit of a dry affair.
Long, long book. But I like books about artists and alway wanted to know more about Leonardo and his inventions and his life. It was very interesting. I would like to read other works by Kenneth Clark.
An incredibly readable, sensitive and intelligent overview of Leonardo's life and work. Very insightful and frank. Clark has the rare gift of bringing life and understanding to the facts without flying of into romantic speculation. Highly recommended.
Very interesting!
Parce que la peinture est une passion et que Léonard est le plus étonnant, créatif et génial des peintres.La bio que Clark lui consacre est devenu un livre de chevet et donc jamais achevé.
Find this, dff ed
