https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/106731.The_Illusion_of_Life
(More pictures at parkablogs.com)Of the many books on animation and Disney, The Illusion of Life: Disney Animation is probably the best. Written by two of Disney's famous Nine Old Men, Frank Thomas and Ollie Johnston, this book goes back to where animation was born, made and enjoyed by people all over the world.At 576 pages, this huge volume probably covers lots of ground on animation except the how-to-do-it part since this isn't really a tutorial book. There are plenty of illustrious stories o
Written by two of Disney's famous Nine Old Men, Frank Thomas and Ollie Johnston, this book goes back to where animation was born, made and enjoyed by people all over the world.At 576 pages, this huge volume probably covers lots of ground on animation except the how-to-do-it part since this isn't really a tutorial book.
While not a tutorial book, it does covers subjects like camera techniques, styles of background paintings, effects, colours and other technical approaches to creating animation, right down to how they voice sync a talking door knob.Lots of photos, paintings, sketches and storyboards are included.
This is probably the most important book written in the subject of animation, even though familiarity with the subject has grown since its writing.It chronicles two top Disney animators' impressions on how the Disney studio studied and codified its approach to animated film in the 1930s, which is almost certainly the most formative period of the medium.They set up a list of basic animation principles and focus on each one in turn.
Although this book is not a quick read, it doesn't make it a dull book by any means.
In fact, the book is filled with inspiration for anyone who is creative.
Frank Thomas and Ollie Johnston take you into the heart of the "Disney magic" by giving history lessons and animation lessons on every page.
I look forward to reading this book every night.I recently bought a blu-ray player and have been picking up the few Disney classics that are available.
The discs are feature rich and have documentaries that are a great compliment to this book.
I am really looking forward to Pinocchio next month.
every year the mouse cranks out a dozen bland management approved histories of the early films. this is not one of them.i paid way too much for a first edition, a year before the reprint. but i had to have it. this bookis a real insight into the minds of disney's nine old men. and served as a primer for a generation of animators. indespensible with my blair and muybridge.
I took this book up mainly because of the writers themselves, Frank Thomas and Ollie Johnston, founding fathers of hand drawn animation. Thought it may be more of a tutorial book but is more of the history of animation and principles behind Disney's early years. Loved it very much.
I loved the continuous flip book in the upper right hand corner of this tome, and I spent countless hours of my childhood looking at images of the Disney films I loved, and photographs of the people who made them....But I never actually READ this book, until now.It is an incredible document - essentially an oral history of the Disney Studio and their practices by two master animators who worked there for 40+ years.
I decided to read this book because I taught an animation workshop last summer - it took me the better part of six months to get through it - but it was absolutely worth the effort.
At Savannah College of Art & Design, I was told it was a must read for animators...
If this is your cup of tea, you simply MUST watch the movie "Frank and Ollie" available on DVD.
It's a great movie about the two authors of the book and very engaging.
(It is a "kind of" documentary shot by Frank Thomas' son.) Since I used to show it to my HS animation classes, I've seen it dozens of times, but find something new every time I view it again.
If you are reading this and you know me, feel free to borrow either the book or the dvd...!
“We seem to know when to ‘tap the heart.’ Others have hit the intellect. We can hit them in an emotional way. Those who appeal to the intellect only appeal to a very limited group. The real thing behind this is: we are in the motion picture business, only we are drawing them instead of photographing them.” - Walt DisneyWonderful and informative. From Walt's Nine Old Men, basic principles, the many glimpses into the workings of the animators at Disney's during the Golden Age and more. 5/5!!"The Animator's Survival Kit" is also a great partner to this book.
I got this book when I was around ten. I wanted to be a Disney Animator more then life its self growing up. My aunt bought me this book one Christmas. Through the years I devoured it. Teaching the fundamentals of traditional animation it is a most have for any one interested in the subject. Though it doesn't deal with the digital age, lots have changed, I still recommend it. The basics have not changed and the wisdom and history of the animation process is something any animator or animation student needs.
This is a fabulous read for anyone interested in animation, not just Disney animation. Two of the greats look at how animation developed into the art form it is today from the beginnings of Mickey up to The Rescuers. Full of great drawings and art from the films, it also gives you an inside look at how Walt ran the studio and how some of the most beautiful animation scenes were filmed.
This is without a doubt the animator's bible. Reads like a novel, but full of priceless information on the craft.
It's a very well-writen and interesting read. I found it both fascinating and educational, and therefore enjoyed it very much.I even read more than I needed for my classes :D
I don't can ever finish this book. As an animator, it's your bible. A book that you always reference when you're in a bind.
This is one of the most important books that an animator can own. It is a detailed account of the development of the Disney animation process.
It's a great book,from it I found my caricature dream!
Had to read it, since it is a miracle when I see my bf reading things... 15 books in his life!
This is an unbelievable book about Disney animation. There’s a huge amount of material here, and the book is not up to date. It would be at least twice the size if it had been written today and included recent Disney movies and computer animation.Even so, this is the best book I’ve ever read that deals with this subject. I will re-read it and refer to it many times in the future. It is an incredibly beautiful book. An absolute treasure.
An excellent collection on disney animation and essential to anyone looking to delve deeper into the style of animation. It is full of amazing imagery that jumps right off the stage. It also goes into the history of some essential animators in disney's early career. There are pictures on every page and chock full of information. It's a great book to read and a great book to flip through.
Beautiful book. Love all the drawings. I wish it wasn’t so technical because I skimmed a lot of the actual animation stuff because I don’t want to learn all the technique of animation, instead wanna learn about Disney.
A great book for Disney lovers and animators. It's an inside look into the history of Disney, animation and its principles, the early days in the studio and how things were done with beautiful drawings and photographs of various Disney characters and the artists. One of my favorites.
PURE ART.
A marvelous resource for animators, but racist at times.
I LIKE THIS BOOK
Rijkelijk geïllustreerd boek over de animatietechnieken, die bij Disney ontwikkeld en gebruikt werden tussen ca.
1934 en 1980, door twee van Disney's grootste animatoren, Frank Thomas en Ollie Johnston.Het boek is noch een historisch overzicht noch een leerboek, maar heeft iets van beide.
Het zit vol met tips & tricks, uitleg en voorbeelden, maar het bevat ook portretten van animators en veel anekdoten.Voor historici is het boek uiteindelijk frustrerend, omdat Thomas & Johnston stelselmatig alle chronologie negeren, enig gevoel voor jaartallen ontberen en luchtig strooien met vaagheden als "a certain animator".
Voor animatieliefhebbers echter is het een rijk en leerzaam boek, niet in de laatste plaats vanwege de prachtige illustraties uit de praktijk van vijftig jaar Disney-animatie.
I got lucky and found this book for a mere $5 at an antique mall, but it is worth far more than that.
Written by two of Disney's legendary Nine Old Men, this book tells the story of Disney animation, from the early experiments of Walt and Ub Iwerks all the way up to Disney becoming the animation powerhouse we know it as today.
But it isn't just the history that this book gives.
As such, this book is a must-have for anyone interested in animation.
Even if you just want to learn about the history of Disney, this book is still worth picking up.
This is THE book on animation. The others may imitate it, there's no replacement. The best part of this book is the breakdown it gives of exactly how the Disney animators did what they did during the Golden Age of animation. This may be the book that saved animation. If you want to do animation or you're just very passionate about it, you owe it to yourself to get your hands on a copy. Ollie Johnson
This was a Christmas present from my mom when I was about 12. She got it on the discount rack at Kmart and I used this book so much that both the front and back cover have fallen off. I just took it out and looked through it again last night, to find something to stretch my drawing muscles on since I haven't done any drawing in 15 years now. It's every bit as wonderful and full of inspiration as I remember it being. My daughter loves looking through it too.
This is the Bible of classical animation. It's as much a autobiography of Disney's Nine Old Men, as it is an educational book on the principals of animation. The Illusion of Life is an inspiration, a resource manual, an autobiography, and a collective work of art, all rolled into one. It contains tons of artwork from the best in the business. This book is a must have for anyone in the animation industry.
This book is not for anyone with weak arms, a compulsion to not finish what they start, or fear of papercuts. The Illusion of Life is a monster, but so detailed and interesting that true Disney Animation fans overlook its age and weight.Written by two of the nine old men, this book encompasses Disney Animation through The Rescuers.Proud to say I read every chapter cover to cover. Solid 4.25 stars.
Incredibly valuable, informative, and fascinating. This is a must-read for any fan of animation, and it really drives home just how much the art form has evolved over such a short time. It has something for any reader, from the student who can find essential technical advice, the enthusiast who can appreciate all that goes into such a painstaking art, and the Disney-lover who wants to know more about the studio's early history and influential artists.
