https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/257146.What_Is_Called_Thinking_
Was heißt Denken? = What Is Called Thinking?, Martin Heidegger What is called thinking? (German: Was heißt Denken?) is a book by Martin Heidegger, the published version of a lecture course he gave during the winter and summer semesters of 1951 and 1952 at the University of Freiburg.عنوانها: معنای تفکر چیست؟؛ چه باشد آنچه خوانندش تفکر؟؛ نویسنده: مارتین هایدگر؛ تاریخ نخستین خوانش: روز بیست و دوم ماه نوامبر سال 2010 میلادیعنوان: معنای تفکر چیست؟؛ نویسنده: مارتین هایدگر؛ مترجم: فرهاد سلمانیان؛ تهران
(German: Was heißt Denken?) is a book by Martin Heidegger, the published version of a lecture course he gave during the winter and summer semesters of 1951 and 1952 at the University of Freiburg.عنوانها: معنای تفکر چیست؟؛ چه باشد آنچه خوانندش تفکر؟؛ نویسنده: مارتین هایدگر؛ تاریخ نخستین خوانش: روز بیست و دوم ماه نوامبر سال 2010 میلادیعنوان: معنای تفکر چیست؟؛ نویسنده: مارتین هایدگر؛ مترجم: فرهاد سلمانیان؛ تهران، نشر مرکز، 1385، در 112 ص؛ شابک: 9789643058951؛ موضوع: تفکر و اندیشه، سده 20 معنوان: چه باشد آنچه خوانندش تفکر؟؛ نویسنده: مارتین هایدگر؛ مترجم: سیاوش جمادی؛ تهران، ققنوس، 1388، در 455 ص؛ شابک: 9789643058951؛ یکی از بزرگوارترین آثار مارتین هایدگر، و بیانی شیوا و روشنگر، از فلسفه ی هایدگر است: «هستی و زمان از پرسش آغاز می‌شود و به پرسش می‌انجامد».
Again, an etymological-philosophical analysis takes up most of this half of the book, and through multiple iterations and thinkings-through we reach a new translation of Parmenides’ saying : “Useful is the letting-lie-before-us, so (the) taking-to-heart, too : beings in being.”Heidegger’s main claim is that since Plato thought has been dulled by the overuse and low valuation of language, and that the problematics of Being in Western metaphysics are related to a fundamental lack in the way we speak of things, and therefore in our concepts, that our common usage of words has blighted our relation to the objects that they envelope and to which we are disclosed as they are disclosed to us.
Now, what do I remember about this book? The point was something like the following: scientific/technical thinking isn't really thinking. Real thinking is thinking about Being. How does one begin to think about Being? I (Heidegger) don't know. But this I do know, you have to allow the question of Being to be important. You must allow yourself to feel the weight of the question. "Why is there something rather than nothing?"
does the greek work that way, how does that work for german, is there significance in german lost in translation to english, is there something that simply confuses, that does not clarify but rather muddies this or that quote, these are all questions inspired by his writing...'what is called thinking?' part one goes into nietzsche a lot, and not much in a way i understand, only interesting in his prescient diagnosis of where 'european man' was headed, some time before anyone else was concerned.
so forgive my poor german and greek, i really am not able to follow much of his translation-elaboration of the title question...'what is called thinking?' offers the four ways that question works in lecture one of part two.
And so maybe in thinking man is able to not only take in the world and take it to heart, but also change the nature of what is means to be "present" in Being.
On the last page he says, "Thinking is thinking only when it recalls in thought the ėóv" - what is crucial here is the nature of recalling, that which summons again the presence of what was once present, that which now dwells in memory.
This lecture series is as close a companion and critique of Being & Time as I've come across and contains some of the clearest and most profound demonstrations of Heidegger's late thought.
Throughout this series, he asks: what is thinking?
For Heidegger, the intellectual history of the West has been a deviation from the true content of thought: the thinking about the Being of beings, a notion misunderstood and neglected since Plato.
Heidegger is trying to rewind two thousand years of intellectual history to the originary state of the Greek mind, to think as the Greeks thought when Parmenides grappled with Being as the essential question - a mystery for which even mighty Aristotle was afforded no relief.
It's important to understand a couple of facts that help the contemporary reader understand how and why this text gathers so much critical praise and attention.First, Heidegger was heavily ensconced in academia.
In examining the way certain trends in thinking affect our perception and behavior, Heidegger is revealing both the potential for substantial behavioral change, and helping to acknowledge how they may occlude or obfuscate past developments, arbitrarily considered no longer valuable.
Heidegger strongly embraced some of these concepts, in re-formulating the question(s?) of Being, in this work and others.
A remarkable representation of the phenomenological Heidegger, What Is Called Thinking should be on the "required reading" list for those desiring to actually think and be capable of transformative thought. While certainly a read that merits close attention, its recursive exploration brings forward remarkable insight into the unthinking of our Modern epoch and provides perspective for paths forward.For instance, Heidegger's perspective on Nietzsche's representation of blinking, prevalent and dominant across corporate senior management and progressive governments globally, provides remarkable insight into the continued nature of the catastrophe latent within the hierarchies constructed by der letzte Mensch (Nietzsche's Last Man).
With language as his flashlight, Heidegger calls for us to follow him into the daunting and labyrinthine question: "What is Called Thinking?" Along the way, one runs into dimly-lit dead ends as frequently as one stumbles upon glittering gold.
With every twist and turn of Heidegger's Brownian-motion brain, we encounter innumerable new paths -- each beckoning for exploration.Naturally, this has the discomforting effect of instilling self-doubt.
Perhaps that is Heidegger's point: only by allowing ourselves to be washed away in the billowing tides of metaphysical questioning can we even hope to explore the greater depths of truth.
I'm not a huge fan of philosophy, but I thought this was brilliant and thought-provoking... if I'm even allowed to still use that phrase, which after reading this I'm not so sure. Heidegger makes some phenomenal insights. Definitely worth the read.
A great Heidegger book. Even one without prior experience in Heidegger can get something from it. A valuable reflection of thinking on thought and reflection.
The core of the book's question is if we can elevate ourselves above the way we are, examine ourselves from the distance of the "leap", and depart for somewhere beyond ourselves.
This leap cannot be possible through a human intention, since an intention can only originate from the way we are.
It should happen like a thunderstorm, as an unexpected encounter.
The leap is fatal, if one cannot reach the other end.
It is only for the ones who dare to leap and go beyond.
It is a profound reading that strikes one's heart like the shriek of thunder, once it is read.
The first highlights Nietzsche's Thus Spake Zarathustra and the second is focused upon the Fragments of Parmenides.In Heidegger's own words...."The title of this lecture course is a question.
The question runs: What is called thinking?
As a course of lectures, we expect it to answer the question.
As the course proceeds, then, it would make the title disappear bit by bit.
But the title of our lecture course remains -- because it is intended as it sounds.
It remains the title of the entire course.
That course remains one single question; What is it that calls on us to think?"
Este es un artículo maravilloso en el cual Heidegger nos dice que pensar es tan pero tan difícil, que a la vez que nadie lo hace, todos lo hacemos sin darnos cuenta. Es maravilloso y escalofriante. Es cortito, y lo recomiendo. Además, ahí se puede ver lo que digo de las ideas tan brillantes de un filósofo, contra el lío de cabeza que se arma un pésimo escritor.
Heidegger resorts yet again to constructing a labyrinth of ambiguous terms which, despite their attempt at portraying his erudition, display nothing but the thought of a second-rate philologist. A colossal waste of time and paper.
Every professor should be required to read this work; it is the true link between theory and practice.
If you don't have time to read the four volume study of Nietzsche, this gives a more compressed version of what's there. It's vintage Heidegger.
A truely exceptional book, deep insights and totally unexpected !
A good way to enter the thinking of Heidegger and also the thinking in general.
Brilliant lectures on the nature of being.
Successfully obliges the reader into living the answer to the question it titularly poses.
Críptico y provocador, muy en el estilo de Heidegger, el texto concluye con una idea que ya se veía venir casi desde el principio (cuando el autor sugiere que todavía no llegan los tiempos en que aprendamos a filosofar de la manera como lo hacen Hölderlin o Rilke con su poesía): que los poetas son los portadores de una voz que es capaz de transformar la penuria de la existencia en un acto valeroso, el acto de encarar el "ser" y llevar la vida un hálito más lejos, hacia una suerte de trascendencia.
This book was alright as far as Heidegger goes.
The first half is a bit pointless to the book.
The first half is brilliant but I read the book hoping it live up to the title a bit more.
The second half of the book (130 pages in) is where Heidegger's argument really shines.
It also towards the end goes into etymology and grammar really intensely.
Heidegger always goes into grammar and etymology but here he explains very concisely what the innate problems of asking what the Being of beings is.

Es difícil por varias razones:El libro siempre recurre a elementos básicos del ser y entonces lo conecta a uno con el cómo estamos en el mundo.
Las reflexiones se originan en las palabras originales en griego y nos remite a los grandes filósofos.
Me impresionó mucho el reconocimiento que hace de Nietzche en tanto mayor pensador del mundo occidental.
Hoy día (con el uso del internet o sin él) tenemos una verborrea de palabras que nunca hemos pensado.
Nos movemos dentro del mundo de los lugares comunes que llegan a nosotros con suma facilidad.Lo gravísimo es que todavía no pensamos.
اصالتمندی واقعی در کسب این قدرت است که افکار پیشین را دریابیم، دریافتهها را تحمل کنیم و آن چه را که در خفا تحمل کردهایم، به بالندگی برسانیم. آنگاه این افکار،خود به آنجا میرسند که به آن تعلق دارند، به آن چیزی میرسند که من آن را «امر آغازین»مینامم. آنگاه شور اصیل تفکر و در اصل شور انسان به امر عاری از منفعت پیوسته بیشتر میشود... اما در حقیقت هرگام در راه تفکر، تنها تلاشی محسوب میشود برای آن که انسان را متفکرانه، در یافتن مسیر ذات خویش همیاری کند..... «مارتین هایدگر»
اصالتمندی واقعی در کسب این قدرت است که افکار پیشین را دریابیم،‌ دریافته‌ها را تحمل کنیم و آن چه را که در خفا تحمل کرده‌ایم،‌ به بالندگی برسانیم. آنگاه این افکار،‌خود به آنجا می‌رسند که به آن تعلق دارند،‌ به آن چیزی می‌رسند که من آن را «امر آغازین»‌می‌نامم. آنگاه شور اصیل تفکر و در اصل شور انسان به امر عاری از منفعت پیوسته بیشتر می‌شود... اما در حقیقت هرگام در راه تفکر،‌ تنها تلاشی محسوب می‌شود برای آن که انسان را متفکرانه،‌ در یافتن مسیر ذات خویش همیاری کند..... «مارتین هایدگر»
En la edición de la UNAM, en la contraportada nos aparece una leyenda: "lee este libro: puede cambiar tu vida". No pudieron haber sido más atinados. En mi primer acercamiento a Heidegger me llevo la impresión de haber leído palabra por palabra así un texto como un subtexto. Un ensayo imprescindible para entender el papel del poeta en nuestro tiempo.
Not one of Heidegger's more memorable works, this is a series of lectures on thinking. Heidegger makes a cool connection between thanking and thinking as the obligation and gratitude of thought vis it's object. However, beyond that, I can't think of a whole lot that I have taken away from this text.
Heidegger takes the superficiality or "blinking" of modern culture to task. Good on him. Much better for us to be attentive to beings' Being and its call for us, not just to beings on a "surface" level. This IS thinking, and it is also Nietzsche's eternal recurrence.
This book is one that I love. I can, however, only wrap my mind around one thought at a time. Talk about irony. This book looks at human nature and animal nature, compares the thinking mind to the emotive and logical mind. If only I could read it more quickly.
