https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/22910900-the-rest-of-us-just-live-here
2 1/2 stars.Here's one thing for certain: Patrick Ness is a total Buffy fanboy. Or possibly he hated it, but either way he paid enough attention to seemingly frame an entire book around the concept of "The Chosen One" and - specifically - Xander's quote from season 7:  "They'll never know how tough it is, Dawnie, to be the one who isn't chosen. To live so near to the spotlight and never step in it."  This is a book about the people in the background. The ones who aren't "indie kids" with names l
The ones who do not get chosen, never discover their secret powers, never fall in love with a vampire, and neither save nor destroy the world.Each chapter opens with a short synopsis on what the "indie kids" are doing.
From these small paragraphs emerges a humourous parody of "The Chosen One" genre, before the chapter continues on with the everyday lives, loves, anxieties and mental health of the not chosen.It's a clever and interesting concept, and yet I was more in love with the idea of it than the actual execution.
Ness has succeeded in writing a book about people who do not stand out at all.
I was a bit disappointed with this book. I found myself comparing it to A MONSTER CALLS, which I know I shouldn't have, because they're completely opposite books from tone to message. At the same time though this book offered up different things that I enjoyed. We have an excellent diverse cast of characters & the story itself was rather unique. It's just that something about it fell flat for me. I still need time to gather my thoughts, but expect a video review soon!
There were definitely elements of this that I enjoyed, like the diverse set of characters and the way it was poking fun at "Chosen One" stories, but the whole thing fell pretty flat for me. I love Patrick Ness's other books, but this one didn't really do anything for me.
on the sidelines, all they can do is remark is that "They better not blow up the high school again."the trials of the indie kids open each chapter, with a brief synopsis of what is going on in their struggle while the book itself is primarily concerned with bringing the blurry kids into the spotlight to show that, yeah, there's a portal of doom opening in the gymnasium, but other things are happening in what would ordinarily be the background, and those struggles are every bit as challenging as the ones centered around the portal.
Really enjoyed this! I liked how it poked fun at the "Chosen One" trope, and we see quite a diverse set of characters.
This book wasn't bad bad, not in a way that would make me rant and rage about how awful it is.
It just wasn't to my taste.
His writing style doesn't connect with me.
The book was weird, and, dare I say it before a legion of Ness fans with pitchforks descend upon me, really boring.I just don't get it.
I prefer excitement, a definable plot, well-written emotions and interactions, and this book was a lot of strangeness and too much dialogue and characters I couldn't connect to.I like my books with a purpose, and I suppose the esteemed Patrick Ness' style is just not for me.
I AM IN COMPLETE DENIAL.No way this book was written by the one and only Patrick Ness.That was some real crappy romance. Of all the romances in the world, this one really sucked. Bland. Cliché. Tedious. Uninteresting. Unexciting. Sleep-inducing.
“Not everyone has to be the guy who saves the world. Most people just have to live their lives the best they can.” If there’s a word that would best describe author, Patrick Ness, it would be  ingenious.  True, the story may not have the most adventurous plot but the premise sure is brilliant and completely original. I have personally never thought about the side characters, the ordinary people watching Katniss and Peeta fight for their lives in the hellish arena…...or the kid watching Spiderm
I doubt anyone has ever thought about them, like really thought of them until Patrick Ness.This creative story is inventively about a group of teenage non-heroes, the none “Indie” kids who try to just live their ordinary lives in a small town where zombies, soul eating ghosts and vampires are daily ordinary occurrences and where the Indie kids die off one after the other but which isn’t a huge deal because the non-heroes are not really affected, unless they become one of the “casualties.”At first, I found the story kind of weird and confusing because of the unique structure with a small side story about the Indie kids at the start of each chapter, but not long after (when I finally got the hang of it), I started to really enjoy it because the writing is surprisingly easy and funny to read.
That's the whole joke about this book is that it's poking fun at how airheaded YA culture can be sometimes, how teens can mindlessly go after the next big thing and turn it into a plague that destroys their brain cells while parents pretend it isn't happening.It's as if the camera were to pan away from Bella and Edward and start following Anna Kendrick and all of the other nobody characters (but without all of the tryhardness of IRL Anna Kendrick that gets really obnoxious).
All the while knowing that the world makes no sense but trying to find a way to be happy anyway."It's set in the kind of world that's HAD all the weird superhero stuff happen.
A lot of the time I feel like books are continually about the decline into the abyss.
(hide spoiler)] + Henna: Okay, out of the foursome (Mel, Mikey, Jared and Henna) I really didn't like her the most.
I connected to, like, all the characters (but the Mitchell family particularly stole my heart) and I just felt the book was suffocatingly perfect.
If it just weren't for all those strange things happening: sudden blue lights in the sky, animals coming back to life and the popular kids always playing heroes.3.5/5 starsWhat a refreshing and funny concept for a novel!As always it took me a while to get into it.
The first few pages, the many characters and all the tiny side-comments that you don't understand (yet), because you don't know anything about the characters so far.It was weird, beautiful, confusing and so many other things.
There's no denying that Patrick Ness is one of the best writers of our time.Find more of my books on Instagram
The main characters go to high school in a world much like our own, except for the indie kids.
Every few years, the indie kids will thwart some alien/vampire/ghost invasion and save the world, killing some unimportant side characters and usually blowing up the school while they're at it.
Mickey is a high school senior who just wants to graduate before the indie kids get anyone else killed.
Each chapter begins with a heading describing what the resident indie kids are up to, saving the world from aliens and accidentally unleashing terrible attacks on the regular population.
I find that descriptions of Patrick Ness' books rarely give them justice but think of a realistic novel with a Buffy episode backdrop.
My favourite was Jared - Mikey's gay best friend who has an affinity with cats - but I appreciated how real and normal the characters felt.
I think it's pretty awesome and I highly recommend it, whether you love Patrick Ness already or you're new to his books.
It's not my new favourite Patrick Ness book but it was a really, really great read.
I really appreciated the way mental health was handled, the relationships with the characters, their flaws, and Jared in general.
I prejudged it based on the first few chapters, but as the plot developed, I started to like it.
Mysterious and paranormal things get in their way, but they did all they could to succeed.What was most striking to me was the fact that Ness managed to incorporate a lot of serious issues in this novel.
Near the end was the part of sadness creeping in.I really liked how the characters developed and how they were connected to each other.
Like how I kept on guessing how the novel was going to end.
Things didn't go my way, but I liked how he ended things.
And I can share the same sentiments with them.But seriously, this book is weiiiiiiiird because the main characters (not the indie kids) were living their ordinary lives in a world where there's something strange and extraordinary is happening.
The Rest of Us Just Live Here seemed ordinary but actually, it is extraordinary.As a conclusion, I think the book's main goal is to impart the insight of living your life to the fullest, in a cliche-or-not way.
It's very different from his other books, but I like that he writes something new and I never know what to expect.
There's kind of a "Manic Pixie Dream Girl" plotline that is mainly the thing that took away from the book for me, but otherwise I really enjoyed it!Full Review:~coming eventually~-----------Before Reading:7/7/15:So I got a mysterious package in the mail yesterday, and GUESS WHAT IT WAS?!?!?!?!?!*high-pitched screaming*My friend got her hands on an ARC and she sent it to me!!!
(Source: I received a digital copy of this book for free on a read-to-review basis. Thanks to HarperCollins and Edelweiss.) “On the day we’re the last people to see indie kid Finn alive, we’re all sprawled together in the Field, talking about love and stomachs.” This may be one of the most pointless books I have ever read.Poor Mike had problems, he had OCD, his sister had nearly died due to anorexia, and he was in love with his best friend but didn’t have the guts to tell her. The rest of the st
This may be one of the most pointless books I have ever read.Poor Mike had problems, he had OCD, his sister had nearly died due to anorexia, and he was in love with his best friend but didn’t have the guts to tell her.
I’m guessing that this is supposed to be a story about the lives of normal people, while something paranormal is going on that they’re not involved in?
But the problem is, that if the normal people’s lives are so interesting that they require a book, why do we even need anything else going on?
They tell you to chase them, but what happens when you actually catch one?” So many of the books we read center around the  Chosen-One™, the Special-Snowflake™, the Saviour-of-the-World™,  but this book is just about the everyday kids (basically and me you) who usually get overlooked.
With their impending (very frightening but very normal) future becoming a reality, the group is trying to live out their final week together.But while Mikey stresses over asking out his long-time-crush Henna out, an End-of-the-World sort of event is taking place (hence the crazy blue lights).
While Mikey doesn’t have the burden of saving the world, he is fighting other battles like his un-perfect family and his OCD.
Patrick Ness doing what Patrick Ness does best: emotionally investing his readers before breaking their hearts.
No, your just a normal guy (well, at least he tries to be normal - and what does normal even mean?) who wants to go to prom with your friends and your best friend Hannah who you are in love with since a long time.
Characters ⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️There is Mikey our main character who’s in love with his best friend Hannah and haven’t told her anything about it.
But Mikey and his sisters are nothing like perfect.
Even though I liked the personalities of the characters, I didn’t love them.
And Hannah is in love with the new kid Nathan.
I avoided reading all reviews of the book before I started because I wanted to be surprised, especially as I know Patrick Ness has a habit of doing just that.If you read a lot of young adult fantasy or science fiction, you'll have come across teenagers that fight vampires, wield magic and join rebel groups to fight against the government or zombies.
And I thought the way Patrick Ness approached anxiety and OCD – from showing the difference between obsession and compulsion, and the way anxiety can make someone feel like you're the one your friends could do without, to confirming that no one is to blame for their own mental health – was important and much-needed.
2.5 stars.
The story's about regular teens living their normal lives while a separate story unfolds at the top of each chapter to show what the Chosen One indie kids are doing to stop the supernatural cliche stuff that typically happens in YA books.
I did love the diversity and thought the overall idea was clever!
But the story itself was so bland/plain that I've already kind of forgotten everything.
So maybe that's a success given that the author was going for ordinary & regular?
But that doesn't change the fact that I was kind of bored for most of the story...
The Rest of Us Just Live HereBy Patrick Ness3.25/5 Stars!All I've heard of Patrick Ness were how wonderful and amazing his books are, so I decided to pick up one of his books and in this case it was 'The Rest of Us Just Live Here'.This book was something I've never experienced with reading before, because instead of following the storyline of the heroes, it follows the normal people.
The people who see everything happen and just have to continue their lives despite the demons, vampires and exploding buildings.
this is my first Patrick Ness read, i heard so much about him, reading the blurb i was expecting a story of normal teenagers who made their normal lives extraordinary Instead I got this super weird confusing novel, I legitimately don't know how I feel about this book so i'm giving it a neutral rating.
Video review: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jcH1K...
After reading More Than This though, I really don't know how I expected any of his other books to measure up.
By regular standards this book really wasn't that bad.
A book about the boring kids that are always stuck in the background and their boring lives.
It was a boring book about the boring kids but it still managed to be relatable in a way that hurt the 16-year-old girl still living inside of me.
It was almost painful to read about his struggles and for that extremely personal reason, I enjoyed this book.
Go read More Than This, that book is a masterpiece.
"They've always got some story going on that they're the heroes of. The rest of us just have to live here, hovering around the edges, left out of it all, for the most part." I'm a little taken aback by how much I enjoyed this little tale devoid of knives and murder and grand soundbites. The Rest of Us Just Live Here, like its blurb advertises, is about normal kids doing normal stuff, encountering normal problems, while the Clarys and Meghans and Harrys fight supernatural stuff and have sweeping
The Rest of Us Just Live Here, like its blurb advertises, is about normal kids doing normal stuff, encountering normal problems, while the Clarys and Meghans and Harrys fight supernatural stuff and have sweeping adventures.
At the beginning of every chapter, we get a little peek into what the "indie kids"are up to.
He takes his little sister to see a boy band.
Mundane stuff that Ness somehow makes interesting through excellent characterization and by drawing on worries we have in our everyday lives.
It's simply about ordinary kids living ordinary lives—but that doesn't make it any less extraordinary.
This is probably one of the qurikiest, most bizarre books I've read this year! It's a hilarious combination of contemporary profoundness and overly cliché paranormal romance. Guys seriously, the para-rom parts are probably the funniest parts of the book!
My favourite Patrick Ness book by far, it just felt like my perfect genre; contemporary but with a fantastical element that didn't overtake the character-driven nature of the narrative. I'm obsessed with this.
Que história mágica e louca.Pra começar que, por mais que eu tenha visto alguns canais falando desse livro, eu deletei TOTAL da minha mente que ele tem um pouco de fantasia.
Além disso, TEM PERSONAGEM LGBT, e eu amei ele, por mais que tenha uma situação que foi muito babaca e eu fiquei com ódio por alguns instantes.E pra finalizar, o mais divertido disso tudo, é que as partes fantásticas do livro são realmente apenas questões paralelas, porque NÃO, esse não é um livro que o personagem principal é o chosen one que vai desvendar tudo sozinho.
