https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/206893.True_West
http://www.bbc.co.uk/programmes/b07tq923Description: Sam Shepard's examination of the relationship and rivalry between two brothers - Austin, a screenwriter, and his older, estranged brother, Lee. Starring the Glenister brothers.The drama is set in the kitchen of their mother's home, 40 miles east of Los Angeles.
Austin is house-sitting while their mother is in Alaska, and is confronted there by his brother, who decides to pay a visit.
Lee manages to bully his way into the house and to borrow his brother's car.
Αυτό είναι το πρώτο θεατρικό έργο του Σαμ Σέπαρντ που διαβάζω, μιας και τα άλλα τρία βιβλία του που απόλαυσα το 2015 και το 2017, ήταν συλλογές με ιστορίες και κείμενα.
Πρωταγωνιστούν δυο αδερφοί, με τον ένα να είναι ένας σπουδαγμένος σεναριογράφος που προσπαθεί να πιάσει την καλή γράφοντας ένα δυνατό σενάριο, και τον άλλο να είναι ένας περιπλανώμενος σύγχρονος καουμπόι και κάπως αγροίκος, ο οποίος ίσα που τα βγάζει πέρα.
Αυτοί οι δυο θα βρεθούν για λίγες μέρες στο σπίτι της μητέρας τους, και εκεί θα γίνει μια περίεργη αναμέτρηση.
Αρκετά θέματα θίγονται, όπως ο σύγχρονος και ο παλιός τρόπος ζωής, η σχέση δυο αδερφών, το τέλος της λεγόμενης “Άγριας Δύσης”, και πάει λέγοντας.
Shepard, a true legend. Actor, author, dramaturge. He was with Patti Smith, Jessica Lange. We discovered his play at the same time we saw "Right stuff". It was a revelation. Shepard attacks with the myth of the cowboy, emblematic of the American culture. This n' is not a demolition. He gives to the cowboy an human dimension. By reading the play, I find the same emotion than when I was at the theatre.
نه که بگم بدم اومد، ولی فقط، ایت واز اوکی.
Most creative use of toast. Ever.
Holy crap!
This play is NOTHING but character development!
Two brothers in a kitchen (and connected alcove) for 9 Scenes, talking, and somehow it's completely engrossing.
While satirizing the Western genre, the play raises all kinds of questions about family, independence, rural and urban lifestyles and doesn't try to answer them conclusively, which is refreshing.
This is like the anti-"Pericles." In 30-40(?) pages, I felt like I could write a 10 page paper on this play easily.
After all 140 pages of Pericles, I struggled to get out a page and a half.
While "True West" is predominantly dramatic, the comedic parts are incredibly effective.
نمایشنامه خوندن تو سفر خیلی بهم میچسبه و این رو هم تو جاده خوندم و هنوز نصف راه رفت رو هم نرفته بودیم که تموم شد. از سم شپارد قبلن داستان کوتاههای خواب خوب بهشت رو خونده بودم و حالا با خوندن این نمایشنامه بیشتر ازش خوشم اومد و راغب شدم برم سراغ چیزای دیگهای که ازش چاپ شده
نمایشنامه خوندن تو سفر خیلی بهم می‌چسبه و این رو هم تو جاده خوندم و هنوز نصف راه رفت رو هم نرفته بودیم که تموم شد. از سم شپارد قبلن داستان کوتاه‌های خواب خوب بهشت رو خونده بودم و حالا با خوندن این نمایشنامه بیشتر ازش خوشم اومد و راغب شدم برم سراغ چیزای دیگه‌ای که ازش چاپ شده
What the hell did I just read?
Brothers Leo and Austin play out their rivalry over screenwriting, toaster theft and desert living -- three unforgiving pursuits -- while trying to one up each other, kill each other and (maybe?) love each other for two fascinating acts.
Were I watching actors on the stage the first time I was seeing this play, I think I would have been impressed with the absurdity and pain, but reading it without a physical manifestation just made me disdain Leo and Austin and Saul and their whack-a-doo Mom. Yet I recognize the importance of absurdity, the importance of seeing people do stupid things because they are stupid, the importance of unrealistic actions in the face of personal pain.I have a feeling that watching this -- with the right actors in the right roles --would make me love Sam Shepard's magnum opus, but reading the words only ...
Notes on Sound"The Coyote of Southern California has a distinct yapping, dog-like bark, similar to a Hyena.
This yapping grows more intense and maniacal as the pack grows in numbers, which is usually the case when they lure, and kill pets from suburban yards.
The sense of growing frenzy in the pack should be felt in the background, particularly in scenes 7 and 8.
In any case, these Coyotes never make the long, mournful.
solitary howl of the Hollywood stereotype.The sound of Crickets can speak for itself.These sounds should also be treated realistically even though they sometimes grow in volume and numbers."
Raw, brutal, intense - no warm fuzzies here. I really want to see/experience this play in the flesh though- there are several scene that just itch for live performance... at the very least I want to see the line-up of toasters. And the final scenes are visceral in their intensity. I think I have to take a shower now.
It was the biggest news story for nearly two decades, and I was thoroughly sick of it.Now that I have washed Cleveland out of my hair (or is it that I just lost most of my hair?), I thought I'd give Shepard (with one p) a chance.True West is about a struggle between two brothers, Austin and Lee. Austin is an Ivy-league-educated screenwriter, and Lee is a drunken bum and sneak thief.
As he helps Lee with his story, Austin decides he wants to go to the desert with Lee -- who has done this before.
Always feels a little weird when it takes someone dying for me to finally check out their work, but this was sublime. RIP, Mr. Shepard.

'Weird for the sake of weird.'" Homer, Barney, Lenny and Carl: "Ohh!"So with True West, I was introduced to the concept of Postmodernism.
Austin writes screenplays for a living; Lee professionally wanders the Mojave Desert while not brushing his teeth.
The play starts with the two firmly entrenched in their respective lives, yet the two smash these established roles to pieces as they begin to want to edge into each other's territories-- Austin wants the freedom of Lee's existence, Lee longs for Austin's money.
بسیار بسیار بسیار خوب. سام شپارده دیگه. 8-> :یدیالوگهاش عــالیَن. خشم، انسانیت، اون حسی که آدم به برادرش داره، اینا رو عــالی درآورده. بعضی جاها لی واقعا نفرتانگیز و رواعصاب بهنظر مییاد و بعضی جاها خیلی برتر از آستین. بعضی جاها حق رو به آستین میدی و بعضی جاها به لی. فضای متشنج بین این دو تا رو خیلی خوب درآورده؛ این که چقدر یه آدم میتونه جنبههای مختلفی داشتهباشه رو؛ این که یه شکست چقدر میتونه آدم رو عوض کنه. هرچی نمایش جلوتر میره شخصیت برادرا بیشتر عوض میشه. آستین که اونقدر متشخص و خونسرد و مث
اوایل نمایش فقط صدای جیرجیرکاس و صدای خیلی دور و مبهم گرگ‌ها؛ و جایی که تنش بین لی و آستین به اوج خودش می‌رسه صدای گرگ‌ها هم زیاد می‌شه؛ خیلی زیاد.چیزی که به نظرم خیلی خوب نبود، طراحی لباس لی و آستین بود.
:یدر کل خیلی هم خوب و توصیه می‌شه.× این پاراگراف اسپویلر است ×داستان لی و آستین، دو تا برادره که آستین فیلمنامه‌نویس هالیووده و از ایناییه که همیشه موفق و ایناس؛ و لی -برادر بزرگتره- عاطل‌وباطله -الکلیه، دزده، تو صحرا زندگی می‌کنه و با وجود این که چهل‌وچند سال‌ش‌ئه، ازدواج نکرده و اینا.
From BBC Radio 4 - Drama:Sam Shepard's examination of the relationship and rivalry between two brothers - Austin, a screenwriter, and his older, estranged brother, Lee. Starring the Glenister brothers.The drama is set in the kitchen of their mother's home, 40 miles east of Los Angeles.
Austin is house-sitting while their mother is in Alaska, and is confronted there by his brother, who decides to pay a visit.
Lee manages to bully his way into the house and to borrow his brother's car.
I love it when playwrights toy with convention.
I first read "Fool For Love" several years ago and was impressed by his voice and style.
"True West" is very similar in tone, though not in execution or story.
It starts like a typical brothers who don't see eye-to-eye story and ends with that convention flipped on its head.
Though I believe the outcome to be highly unbelievable, it didn't hamper my enjoyment of the story.
I see Shepard occupying the same southwestern gothic territory as Cormac McCarthy, and this story ranks right up there with McCarthy, or even faulkner.
An absolutely wonderful play- my introduction to Shepard. Led me to Beckett and Brecht, and was a perfectly "me" story. Humans are liars, and we never really get anywhere. Shepard understands my sensibilities.
True West at first reads a bit like Raymond Carver on the stage.
Two brothers, one an aspiring Hollywood screenwriter, the other a big-talking thief, house-sit for their mother in a quiet L.A. suburb.
Despite the booze, the fluorescent lights and the suburban despair, Shepard's play is simply too funny and too alive for Carverworld.True West plays up the comedy of sibling rivalry.
The true pleasure of the play, then, is its closing of the distance between how we would like to present ourselves and how we truly are.
Shepard understands that our masks are important for what they show and for what they hide.True West, then, is a sort of archaeology expedition.
I'm still trying to let this beautiful play settle in my mind, but one of my resolutions this year is to immediately review everything I read.
I may never look at toast the same way.2.
The play's treatment of the brothers' relationship was raw and intense.
Writers.
The American West.
One of the key themes here was the chipping away at the romanticized image of the American West and the cowboy.
Raw, beautiful.I've decided that Sam Shepard had my sense of humor, by the way.
This is the second play of his I've read, and I love his mind.
I cannot help it: both West End and Buried Child work great – until it comes to the last act.
That’s genius.” It is a disaster, Shepard, let’s face the truth… But where in Buried Child Shepard could wrap up his inability to end things in a nice absurdity-package, in West End he got completely nothing to cover his track.
West End is a comedy, a great comedy with a line of brand new stolen toasters lining up on the kitchen table; it is a comedy about two brothers who suddenly change their places.
Reading simple and plain plays by Shepard gives you dare to sit and write about whatsoever plot you have in your mind.
آثار سام شپارد به نمایش نامه ها و داستان های کوتاهش محدود نمی شوند.
سام شپارد بازیگر سینما و تیاتر هم هست و در برخی از فیلم ها همچون "فرانسیس" یا "دیگه نیا دم در" (ویم وندرس) با همسرش "جسیکا لنگ" همبازی بوده است.
سام شپارد هم چنین نقد تیاتر و سینما هم می نویسد و برخی از نقدهایش در مجلات مشهور انگلیسی زبان منتشر می شوند.
Read this for school.
I’m not familiar with these sorts of “American plays,” so bear with me.
It’s very short, and it’s the first work I’ve read by Sam Shepard.
They’re both staying at their mother’s place.
This is probably a play one must read several times to catch all the deeper allusions, not least because it’s over so fast.
Often times the scene doesn’t seem to go anywhere at first.
And many things don’t make sense the first reading, and they’re probably not supposed to.
I don’t know, the ending seemed rushed.
Why does the Pulitzer Committee like Sam Shepard so much?This is the third play of his that I’ve read, and I didn’t much enjoy any of them.
Maybe I’m missing something.
Maybe his plays are genius, and I’m simply too much of a rube to appreciate them.
As for True West, the tale of two brothers, I started out liking it.
It’s the execution where he falters.Like the other Sam Shepard plays I’ve read, True West jumped the rails and went for melodramatic, over-the-top nuttiness that robbed the play of any and all resonance.From an artistic standpoint, I can appreciate what Mr. Shepard wanted to achieve.
I am so used to reading novels, with all the description there for the movie I make in my head.A few things about this really stood out for me• the good son/bad son dichotomy is apparently not as strict as we are at first led to believe• life as a script writer is just like this, I know.
A one-hit wonder who produces nothing.
And most scriptwriters have a day job--it takes soooo long to write a script, and most get no advance, etc.• We are led to believe that Mom needs her plants and home taken care of by her responsible son.
There were two central characters, brothers, and the plot, which I found to be really simple, was ongoing with no real essence to it.
In a way, I found it to be similar to Catcher in the Rye because it reminded me of the familial bickering's that occurred in both.
I felt that Catcher in the Rye captured more of an essence than did True West mainly because the characters were a lot more multi-faceted.
In True West, Austin and his brother Lee stuck to their type of character, which is a little unrealistic and a reason I found Holden to be a better protagonist.
I've never read any of Sam Shepard's plays although I've enjoyed his films and acting.
And for full disclosure, I think I've read only 2-3 plays to date (not including Shakespeare, as - pardon my fine distinction - I consider Shakespeare's plays to be in a class by themselves).
So perhaps if I READ through the Shepard films that I've enjoyed I'd feel the same sort of letdown.
"Letdown"?
Well, while the 2 main characters in "True West", brothers Lee and Austin produce some entertaining dialogue, I felt that the play meandered through their tense sibling relationship to a rather meaningless close.
Some serious Cain and Able stuff right here.
It's pure structure vs.
chaos and what starts out as a character study centering on a sibling rivalry goes off the rails into some straight up loopy territory that essentially flips the positions of the brothers and features all of literature's single greatest instance of toaster theft.
The LA Theatre Works production is, as usual, excellent and, also as usual, a great excuse to let Alfred Molina stomp all over some poor, lesser actor (though the guy who plays Austin gets to let it out a bit at the end).
But man, Molina brings this thing to life and lets you really hear the pure beating heart of Sam Shepard's work.
Sometimes I suspect that all of Sam Shepard's characters are really different aspects of his own personality. His works depict a distinctly American psyche in constant battle with itself, the open frontier, the anonymous landscape, the never-ending road, the random people along the way and the broken families they left behind. I read somewhere that he never flies because it's unnatural, humans shouldn't leave the ground or something along those lines. Interesting.
