https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/61950.The_Girl_Who_Heard_Dragons
This is an enjoyable collection of short stories by the late sci-fi author Anne McCaffrey.
There are a few stories that are connected together - 'Duty Calls', 'A Sleeping Beauty Humpty Dumpty', and 'The Mandalay Cure' are set in an interstellar war between the Alliance and a weasel-like race called the Khalians.
'A Flock of Geese' and 'The Bones Do Lie' are also connected, but are not near each other in the book; they involve time-shifting.If you enjoy Anne McCaffrey's Pern series, you will be interested to see what else she has up her sleeve.
This is a collection of 15 stories by Anne McCaffrey.
They are of all sorts of types of stories and characters, including one from the point of view of a horse.
They range from excellent to so-so.
Oddly, the one with the least amount of fantasy was one of the best and took place during the American Civil War. The title story may have been expanded into an entire Pern novel but I'm not positive.
I wasn't impressed enough to keep the book.
You can tell I wasn't that interested by how long it took me to finally finish this.
I had mixed feelings about this book. I wasn't expecting it to be a collection of shorter stories, a fault on my part, but I was disappointed when the first story was cut short. In general I found some of the stories to be excellent and some I could hardly get through. It is a good book if you're looking for a mixture of everything since it ranges from dragons to space travel to time travel to normal life on Earth, but I didn't find it to be that fantastic.
The Girl Who Heard Dragons (1994) collects a series of short stories by Anne McCaffrey, most of the SF, a few fantasy, and a few horse stories. The stories had been published over McCaffrey's career, but unfortunately, there's no documentation on when. While a few of these stories shine, I found too many rather dull, or composed of flat character, and thus dull. One story ranked as astonishingly stupid. The title story is a Pern story, one that's been republished before, and certainly a draw to any McCaffrey or Pern completist.The whole thing is quite sikippable.
Containing a few stories from Anne McCaffrey and the titular story based on Pern. This is a nice fast read. The problem at least with me is I wanted more Pern! But I'm ok with it because it is a nice story and reminds me that I should get back to reading the others I always promise myself I'll tackle.
An uninspired collection further weakened by Ms. McCaffrey's inexplicable need to begin her book with an oddly long essay about every single time a stranger or acquaintance recognized her name. Frankly, Anne McCaffrey, I don't much care.
Most of the other stories were in the Science Fiction genre with a few being just plain fiction, and those were the ones I enjoyed best.
Although I really didn't care for most of the stories in this collection, there were a couple that I really enjoyed.
Another was "Zulie, Grace, Nimshi, and the Damnyankees", which is set in the old south during the time of slavery and how one family took care of their people and the incredible bond that was created, resulting in their people actually taking care of the family in mysterious ways.
Anne McCaffrey is the quintessential writer of fantasy books pertaining to dragons. These books are always wonderful, well written, and perfectly characterized. All of her series are great but the ones that take place on Pern are the best of all. A thoroughly fun and engaging read.
My favorite parts of this were the Pern story and the horse story.
not bad, for short stories...
Mixture of fantasy and science fiction short stories. One is about surrogate mother/IVF which was written before it existed-fascinating even if I found that particular story overly long.
Very mixed, some of the stories were a 5*, but others hardly worth the effort of reading.
I loved this book. I adore reading the Pern series.
I liked the title story, but didn't like any of the others. I usually just read the Pern story.
I adored the Pern series as a kid - I have lots of great summer memories associated with trying to track down as many as possible at my local library.
They’re not children’s books, or young adult - just straight up fantasy.
It’s a short story collection, that based on the title I assumed was all about Pern.
But it’s actually a mix - the first story is set in Pern, but the rest are totally unique.
I had never read any of McCaffrey’s other books, so it was really great to see a snapshot of her non-Pern works.
Some stories were straight up sci-fi, but some were much more reality based.
Not crazy on some of the stories, but a few of them really stuck with me. Stars for those.
Also, horses.Cinderella Switch is set on a colonial world in space - a mysterious woman appears at a ball, captivating men, who discover there is more to her than a pretty face.Habit is an Old Horse is from the perspective of an elderly horse, waiting for his mistress and watching the activity around her house as she passes.Lady-in-Waiting is set on Earth, in England more specifically.
But it was no disappointment because I recalled "The Girl Who Heard Dragons" was the short story that kicked off the entire series.
The rest of the story you should really read if you are a fan of Pern.Other stories that felt familiar were the ones about timeshifting, a favorite Pern topic, but in this case without the dragons, and more like a meteorologic condition.
"A Flock of Geese" and the last story in the volume are about Chloe, matriarch of a cavern with a stout door.
And, I thought, joyfully, and I had a whole Pern book again!And then that story was over.
There also a Furry here in the form of a Brawn (an unaltered alien who reminds the ship of an Ocelot).
This was good, especially as the books in this universe that I'd read were all extremely deformed from birth and thought of the ship as themselves.
He still thought of himself as a pilot and not a ship.The rest of the stories are great, but it is late and I need to go back to bed.
The Girl Who Heard Dragons is a collection of short stories that vary in their content.
The titular story is the only Pern story in the collection.
Aramina can communicate with dragons, but her family wants to keep this a secret, as they don't want her sent to a weyr.
It has the typical theme of Pern, in which a young person that doubts herself becomes strong and worthwhile."Velvet Fields" was the other favorite I had in the collection.
I wanted more Pern, but there was only one story, and none of the other stories can really measure up to that world.
As part of my Pern-reread, I looked at the title story and then flipped through the entire thing.A part of me thinks that McCaffrey is a better short story writer than she is a novelist.
Her shorts avoids a lot of the issues that bog down her main works - it's got clear plot and characters, and it moves crisply while in the Pern world and there's rarely glaring continuity issues.
I'm not fond of short stories that are necessary to the main continuity.
I had two favourite stories in this book (sorry I can't for the life of me remember the titles of the stories, apologies!).
The first was about a young woman who has decided to dedicate her life to training and caring for horses (now quite rare) which are raised to be sent to colonies in other planets.
The other favourite was a story (probably very fictional) about the first IVF surrogacy pregnancy and the reactions to it from a community, and the 'moral' implications of this amazing innovation as it would have appeared back then.
I've only read a few McCaffrey Pern novels so I'm only familiar with her high fantasy style.
I did have to read the title story twice, the second time allowed me to fit the characters back into what bits I remembered of Pern.
After that I experienced a bit of stylistic whiplash - high fantasy, SF horror, absurdist humor, space opera, sociopathic time-travel, magical realism (yeah, yeah), fairy tales - that made it hard for me to "settle" into the book.
When I was younger, I loved Anne McCaffrey's books.
And in part it was, but the problem was I wanted more from the world of Pern than what I got.
That isn't the fault of this book, of course.
The short stories all brought on different worlds and introduced me to new characters.
I wanted to know more about the stories than what I was getting.
I'm definitely going to try again, and this time with a focused story.
Because the story on Pern did draw me in and bring me a feeling of nostalgia, and I would love to go back.
A book made up of short stories by Anne McCaffrey.
I was a little startled at first when the second story was written about a different world/different time than the first, but after I took a break between stories, I really enjoyed the book.
It is a wonderful introduction to her many different writings.
There aren't any manufactured happy endings here (though many stories end well).
I would highly recommend this book to anyone interested in McCaffrey, well-written sci-fi stories, or short stories easily read in one sitting.

When I first realized that this short stories collection was gonna have just one Pern story, I was baffled; when I found out that that particular story could be found in Renegades of Pern (which I have), I was pretty angry at myself for not reading better the wikipedia page (which is really clear, in retrospect); but while some of the short stories confirmed my idea that Anne McCaffrey should just write Pern, and leave everything else alone, a couple of them were beautiful enough to make me like the book.
This collection of Anne McCaffrey's short stories is excellent!
Most of the stories are science fiction rather than fantasy.
But this is a great collection of stories from a fabulous writer.
I recommend it to anyone.I've been a fan for a long long time, going back to the first novels about Pern and the dragons.
She's long been a favorite, a genius, I wish there were new books still to look forward too.
But I hear that Todd McCaffrey took up the baton.
I can't wait to take a look.
But maybe I'll go back and reread some favorites about Pern.
I bought the group thinking it was an anthology with several Pern stories, rather than just one story. Also, if I remember correctly, the Pern story in this book is in another anthology, and much more fleshed out in Renegades of Pern. I don't regrudge anyone liking the rest of the stories, I just think it was a cheap marketing tactic to get people to purchase the book, because unless you flip through it, you wouldn't know only one story is Pern-based, and the rest are something else.
I didn't like it. I wanted to read more about the girl who heard dragons, but it skips from story to story and I really didn't want to read about space wars. I only made it through 2 1/2 chapters and when I looked ahead and realized each chapter was a different story, I put it down. Very disappointed because I love Anne McCaffrey. Her writing was still excellent, I just wanted to read one whole story.
