https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6853.One_for_the_Money
Plus, Samuel’s failure to report the boxer to the police for the attack on him because he doesn’t want to look weak allows two innocent people to be brutally raped and assaulted.Samuel is obviously a moron who has no business running around with a gun and hand cuffs.
If this was some kind of comic farce, then I could see how a loser getting humiliated by the fugitives he’s supposed to be chasing would be funny, but that kind of goes out the window with the psychotic rapist boxer thing and people getting shot due to Samuel’s utter failure as a bounty hunter.In conclusion, I’ll say that Samuel Plum is a fucktarded asshat who should be beaten with….Oh, wait.
I was hooked with the first one and have read the entire series thus far - including all the stupid mini books in-between.
Now, those mini books I could do without and they always feel like an attempt to make sure they even got the loose change in my pockets, but I still get them anyway because it is like a fix until I can get the real thing.
Really, did I mention I love these books?
I feel that the story just gets better and better as you know the characters more and she doesn't have to spend time introducing them, she can just get on to the chaos.

4 unforgettable characters: Stephanie Plum, Joe Morelli, Ranger and Grandma Mazur.
with great humor, a bit of sass, lots of determination and an inability to know her limits.
But each and every time you root for her to win!Joe: Honest.
Apparently great in bed.
Wants to make Stephanie happy.
But knows his limits.
Attitude that won't quit but turns you on at the same time.
Always finds you just in time, that is, before you get yourself into too much trouble.Grandma: OMG, can you be any funnier?
But she's whacked out most of the time.
I NEED to meet her.So...
I need to keep on reading.
I've heard from many people that this book is funny, but I sure didn't think so...
It wasn't even like there were jokes that I just didn't see the humor in, but rather I couldn't even understand what was SUPPOSED to be funny about it.
I also listened to this on audiobook, which is the only reason I managed to get through it.
The only reason I put myself through this torture was because of a reading challenge I'm participating in, where I had to read a book published the year I was born.
Sometimes you just need to read a book like this. With mediocre writing and a plot as see-through as Grandma's underpants, it will take your mind off life's more substantial material for a while.
I figured this would be a good time to write a review about this book, since I read it a few months ago, but never got a chance to review it.This book was highly recommended to me, because although I really do read a bit of everything I find chick-lit to be the most entertaining.
Chick-lit is like chocolate to me in that way.I know that comedy is subjective, but I didn't laugh reading this book once.
Most of the book seemed really corny to me, and that's saying a lot, considering I normally don't mind that in chick-lits.
Funny and light-hearted book with a likeable heroine who never loses track of her goal to earn 10,000 dollars as a bounty hunter. Too bad its an old ex-lover she has to find but then - she still has a bone to pick with him....This first book in the series made me jump outright on the Stephanie Plum-bandwagon and I prepare myself for an enjoyable ride!
Funny and light-hearted book with a likeable heroine who never loses track of her goal to earn 10,000 dollars as a bounty hunter. Too bad it´s an old ex-lover she has to find but then - she still has a bone to pick with him....This first book in the series made me jump outright on the Stephanie Plum-bandwagon and I prepare myself for an enjoyable ride!
bozanstven humor, zabavno... autorka je divna koliko i njena junakinja Stefani Plam... imala sam to zadovoljstvo da je upoznam na sajmu u Njujorku davne 2002. I divna je koliko i njene knjige... To mi je jedno od najdražih iskustava :)
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/Dear Janet E: Actually, that’s a boldface lie. I obviously have no desire to ever give up on our one-sided relationship. I mean, I’ve faithfully read about Stephanie Plum, her exploding cars, her gun-toting Granny, her former ho bestie, and her will she-won’t she relationships for over 10 years now. Not to mention all of her other series I’ve dabbled in, as well as some of her romance books, and dare I forget the pretty godawful movie
I mean, I’ve faithfully read about Stephanie Plum, her exploding cars, her gun-toting Granny, her former ho bestie, and her will she-won’t she relationships for over 10 years now.
Not to mention all of her other series I’ve dabbled in, as well as some of her romance books, and dare I forget the pretty godawful movie version of this one that I just haaaaaad to watch .
Lula was still an actual ho and Stephanie had to contend with a pretty rough bad guy instead of the flashers of her future.
Which means I’ll probably end up falling down this dang rabbit hole and re-experiencing these all over again .
I am not a person who shows emotion when reading, and I never laugh out loud.
While I was reading this book, I had numerous people, including my family, ask if I was okay.
This book follows Stephanie Plum, a girl from the ‘Burg as she becomes a bounty hunter out of pure desperation.
Stephanie is just a typical person, she has no experience in Bounty Hunting and manages to mess up every situation she stumbles across, she's clumsy and loud mouthed and I loved her to death.
Stephanie Plum is a New Jersey '90's girl who is out of work.
She finagles her way into working for her cousin who is a bail-bondsman.
Her job is to catch this guy who took her virginity and she's known most of her life, and turn him into the police.
Like, sold-all-of-her-stuff, no-food-to-eat desperate.But, Stephanie is completely out of her league and has no idea what she is doing.
Catching Morelli would be difficult.
Oh, well if it would feel mean then you shouldn't do your job.This book was just hilarious.
Also, Stephanie has a hamster named Rex. I love him the most!
I've been seeing Evanovich books for years and not even once was I compelled to give them another look or find out if they were worth my time.
I kind of regret it now.This 1st book in the series about a female bounty hunter set in New Jersey ethnic neighborhood was quite a pleasure to read.
The book was written about 15 years ago and definitely felt dated in many ways, especially in regards to "fashion" - spandex shorts, big hair, hoop earrings and all that.
But I will definitely check the next book out whenever I am in a mood for a fast-paced funny mystery.
11/11/15:  Buddy (Re)Read with my peeps at BB&B
I bought this audiobook years ago and decided to pull it out because I wanted to feel a little bit of the magic before Stephanie Plum became boring.
I would listen to another book narrated by C.J. Critt.I do think that readers looking for a fun silly story will enjoy the Stephanie Plum series.
I may try the next book in the series soon to see if it works better for me because I really want to find some of the magic I felt years ago.Initial ThoughtsI bought this audiobook years ago and decided that I should probably go ahead a listen to it.
Buddy reading with some friends at  Buddies Books and Baubles  starting Nov 1 The Plan: Read one book in the series per month.
So that's like the next 2 years.
I now plan buddy reads 2 years out....no I do not have a problem...and even if I did I seem to be going to a group for it...soooooo.
Don't judge me :PLazy Review Time - since this came out forever ago and there are a bazillion reviewsThis series has 20+ books in it.
I can see what it has been so popular over the years.
It is just a good t
A time when New Jersey was known for garbage and hydrocarbons and people still had answering machines and no cell phones….YES we used to live like that.Stephanie Plum is a fun character and this was a pretty good introductory book with funny shenanigans as she tries to figure out how to be a bounty hunter.
The messed up in the head bad guy is a bit deranged and pretty scary.Definitely and easy fun and funny read with a little drama and suspense.

3.5 StarsOne for the money is one of those popular books that it seems everyone has read except me.
But now, in the 2010's, it is full of inappropriate sexism, sexual harassment masked as “sexual tension”, annoying characters, and bad fashion that belongs back in the 90's.Having said that, I can look past all of that and put myself back in the 1990's and appreciate this book for what it is, an entertaining read that you can just enjoy without getting too much into it.Sure, Stephanie Plum may be a touch on the annoying side, but for the 90's, she is kick ass.I loved the fact that there are no mobile phones, and technology feels like it belongs back in the stone ages.
Down on her luck Stephanie Plum needs a job fast before she runs out of money and ends up getting evicted from her apartment.
Not to be discouraged Stephanie blackmails cousin Vinny into giving her one of his bounty hunting jobs.
The story was pretty fun.
The mystery of who set up Joe gave the plot an extra dimension as did the inclusion of the menacing and crazy stalker Stephanie picked up in the form of local celebrity boxer Benito Ramirez.
On a random note I thought it was pretty interesting to read a book set in the mid 1990s.
Maybe if I haven't read Charley Davidson's series first, I would have loved this book more. But sad to say, I can't help but compare Stephanie's humor to Charley. It was kinda fun and entertaining but not that much.
Eight minutes into our road trip my wife asked me to shut the book off, as she had a headache.
All we heard was a childhood flashback about the main character getting tricked by a neighborhood kid into playing "train tunnel" in her pants.
So either the book is going to improve significantly, or I am going to have fun writing a scathing review when it's finally over.UPDATE:I finished listening to this yesterday.
The main character, Stephanie Plum, makes stupid decision after stupid decision.
No way would I ever pick up another one of these books.
Although there were a couple of times I laughed (few, to be honest, but enough to make me not hate this book), I didn't like Stephanie Plum at all.
I am not saying we should all be scared and sit in our house because we might get hurt, but there is being wise and there is being Stephanie.
Everyone likes those.
That would be this book in a nutshell.
I just find Stephanie annoying here.
Maybe the second book is more entertaining and the main character grows on me.
I hate them.
I know many love this series and Stephanie Plum. Unfortunately, I just couldn't connect and didn't find her ineptness all that funny. My investigators/detectives have to have some level of smarts, either streetwise or instinctive. That's not Stephanie and this isn't my kind of mystery but completely get how this character and story may be appealing to many. I won't be continuing the series.
One of the many books I often reread. Not sure how many times I've read this book. Stephanie Plum is one of my favorite characters in literature. She's funny and vivacious.2/2018. Another reread so I could visit with Stephanie and the Plum family. I love this series more every time I read them. 😁💕
Can't remember if this is the one where she flirts with Joe or flirts with Ranger, but love all of them because hey, it's Stephanie Plum.
She’s like any regular woman in the world, a fun personality shaped with a loving family, embarrassing moments and some bitter days.
She’s a bounty hunter, a woman from his past, and she is relentless.Grandma Mazur is one of neatest characters I’ve ever read.
She’s all excited about you becoming a bounty hunter.
She gets your gun to show it off to your family and the man they are trying to set you up with.
If One for the Money doesn’t make you run for Two for the Dough, just take a deep breath and read the second one.The relationships that are formed are so funny.
I have finished the first one of the series.I've been reading quite a few serious books this summer - "The Maytrees," "Falling Man," "Absolute Friends," and "A Thousand Splendid Suns" to name the most recent - and I was ready for a drastic change.
As a result, I read the book within 24 hours and most of it in one sitting.This, of course, was the book that introduced Stephanie, her family and friends to the reading public.
One of those "friends," Joe Morelli, plays a very large role in this adventure and apparently in the Plum adventures to come in the series.This book has everything one can ask of a mystery.
And thus, with this book, began my intense love affair with everything Stephanie Plum and her zany crew of friends, co-workers, lovers, and adversaries (standouts: Grandma Mazur and Lula). Oh, and by the way, I'm 100% #teamRanger
Book: ★ ★  Narration: ★  I'm new to audiobooks, and at this point I'm not exactly sure how much they're for me.
I can listen to whatever I want during my workday, so I figure, why not catch up on some reading while I do it?
The problem is, I seem to come across more audiobooks that rub me the wrong way than those that don't.
When the narrator is female and she reads the part of a male and is trying to either be sexy or menacing, I have a hard time with it.
The same goes the other way as well.
When the narrator is female and she reads the part of a male and is trying to either be sexy or menacing, I have a hard time with it.
All too often I figure out the mystery before half the novel is over but that wasn't the case here so that was a pleasant surprise.I don't think the narrator did a poor job for most of the novel; it was just the sexy and evil men that she was trying to do that wasn't working for me.
My mom's been bugging me for years to read this. I resisted, because, well, mom books. I thought it would be silly, I thought it would be overwrought, I thought it would be chick-lit...and it wasn't! I was pleasantly surprised. It's no deep, mystery-thriller, but it wasn't a complete throw-away beach read, either. I enjoyed it and I'll get #2 on hold from the library. This looks like a good fill in read, a go-to read when I have nothing on tap and need a capable stand in. Thanks Mom!
