https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/447884.Remembrance_of_Things_Past
which no dawn will follow.People, places, smells, feelings, memories: The swirling vortices of time that we try to cling to, fade and die, only to return in a person or place from which we have come.Do we end at the beginning or start with the end?
Multiply this feeling by an entire lifetime, and you can begin to brush fingers against the skein of this intricate, masterful, multi-sided book.Reading The Search is an endeavor that engaged all my senses and spoke to deep memories within my heart; it was such a personal experience, that I hope I've given it enough justice with my rambling.
But despite the potential patchwork pitfalls of trying to be a psychic and figure out which of Proust's corrections he really meant and were the final ones, in these volumes the themes really come into focus and you can start to see why he spent so much time on what a lot of people may consider the world's most erudite paperweight.For me it helped that the chunk of the first two parts are focused on his incredibly weird relationship with girlfriend Albertine.
Since it is the second of the three volumes put together by others following Proust's death, it is impossible to know what title he would have used for the eventual published work, if he had lived to make the final revisions.The penultimate novel in Proust's cycle is entirely concerned with the narrator's obsessive relationship with his lover Albertine.
But then both the French title and The Fugitive have a deeper meaning, as the narrator's memories of his lover begin to disappear from his imagination, becoming fugitive thoughts.Time RegainedThe final volume of Proust's Remembrance of Things Past has as its themes ageing, illness and death; an appropriate (if gloomy) way to bring to an end his narrator's exploration of his life.
It's hard to overpraise Proust, yet superfluous. What I found most important and impressive was the way that he caused me to re-experience the passage of time in my own life. I was reading over a six month period, and the passage of time itself during the reading was shaped by the book, but Proust's genius is also to evoke one's own memories. It's a cliche of criticism that no two readers read exactly the same text; Proust's method makes that profoundly the case.
As the book begins, Marcel and Albertine, whom he still asserts that he does not love and has not married, set up housekeeping in Marcel’s family home in Paris, Marcel experiencing if not happiness at least a sense of relief in the realization that he is keeping her away from other women.
To too great an extent his emotional world revolves around himself alone, and his constant attempts to reify his “I” only augment his anguish.With news of Albertine’s death, Marcel experiences a new set of torments, the torments of memory, memories of many different Albertines, each associated with a particular place, a particular episode, and thus he must grieve for the loss of a whole series of lost loves.
Yes, I really have read the whole thing, after more than 30 years. I started reading Proust in the old Moncrieff translation with the tiny print. And after the first few volumes. I would take a break. But I love "Swann in Love" so much that every time I would go back to Proust I wanted to start from the beginning... Anyway, it's worth the effort. And once you finish it, you'll probably want to go back to the beginning and start all over again..
Andre Gide was the reader who famously turned down Proust’s great book when it was first offered to the Nouvelle Revue Française in 1912, hence Proust resorted to having 'Swann's Way' published privately.
The rest, as they say, is history.… Life is a piece of cake, if you take the time to think long and hard enough about it.For me, reading Proust was oddly like meditating.
You can’t help reflecting on your own life and times, prompted by Proust’s gentle ruminations, and it takes several pages before you suddenly awaken and realise you’ve been reading without reading.
Norman Mailer answered an interview question as to what single book he would bring to a desert island with him with "In Search of Lost Time" (which I think is the better translation of the work's title, and a more accurate one than the very passive-sounding "Remembrance of Things Past").
I need to re-read this, though, not "to get it" so much as to re-live it, to conduct my own search for lost time--which is the opportunity that this work provides us--better.
I am writing a single review for all volumes. Proust discovered why we read and spent the greater part of his years presenting us a learner's manual for reading, writing and living. Alain de Botton is quite correct Proust CAN change your life. I promise if you devote yourself to this set of works, you will never regret, and you will be changed for life. How? Guess!
Extraordinary lovely passages and sections embedded in daily narrative; sometimes I wondered why am I staying with these people most of whom I don't like and then, whoosh, I get hit with a wonderful wind taking me thru another hundred pages evoking deep connections and feelings.
Just as good the second time around!
oh forty or fifty."Proust explains:And, without question, all those different planes, upon which Time, since I had regained it at this reception, had exhibited my life, by reminding me that in a book which gave the history of one, it would be necessary to make use of a sort of spatial psychology as opposed to the usual flat psychology, added a new beauty to the resurrections my memory was operating during my solitary reflections in the library, since memory, by introducing the past into the present without modification, as though it were the present, eliminates precisely that great Time-dimension in accordance with which life is realised.
کتاب یه جور حالت اتوبیوگرافی داره و به حالات درونی آدمها به دقت و با جزئیات خیلی زیاد پرداخته شده.
این کتاب رو اوایل که ترجمه شده بود هر جلدش رو جدا میفروختن (چون یه جور حالت استقلال داره جلدهای مختلفش که میشه جدا جدا هم خوند) الان ولی دیگه همش با هم شده.از بین این 7 جلد من جلد آخر که عنوانش "زمان بازیافته" هست رو خوندم.کتاب از لحاظ سطح نوشته ها و موضوعاتی که بهش پرداخته شده واقعا سطح بالا هست.
Overall, I enjoyed A la Recherche etc etc etc a great deal, as there are any number of highly interesting situations and scenarios within the 4000 pages of the work, and Proust's insights into human behavior, especially with regard to duplicity and sociality, are dead-on.
I've often wondered how many people turn away from this book because it doesn't even really get interesting until maybe midway through Swann's Way. And such roadblocks crop up later in the work as well.Overall, a very good read but one that will try your patience more than a few times and, at nearly 4000 pages, is not for the faint of heart.
When Aimee reports back about her liasons with girls at the baths and of another with a laundry girl near the banks of the Loire who she happened to bite in her pleasure, Marcel is pissed since Albertine is dead, she will never know that he knows what's she has done.
I feel like I have climbed one of the Mt. Everests of the literary world and I have seen the world from its summit.
If you have not yet read Proust, please put aside whatever else you might be reading.
Better yet, get rid of it.
There is hardly a point.
Literature, life, art, love, yearning, the mind, brothels, dinners, celebrities, fashion, aesthetics, cookies, insomnia, the beach, France, mothers, the theater, obsession, flowers, and memory, to name just a few, are perfectly captured here.
Writing before Proust is little but a long prologue; after him, side notes.
Also, if you're curious about Proust, please refrain from reading any other translation; the newer editions might be nicely packaged, but the Moncrieff-Kilmartin remains the Golden Standard and is far superior to the wobbly attempts of the more recent volumes.
I read Volume I (Swann's Way and Within A Budding Grove) in 1985, Volume II (The Guermantes Way and Cities of the Plain) in 1995, and I should have read Volume III (The Captive, The Fugitive, and Time Regained) in 2005 for consistency, but I instead waited until 2014-2015.
[I reread Swann's Way in 1998 for my book discussion group.] It was worth the wait.
Although this translation is dense, and the sledding was rough at times, the interior monologues of the narrator---a neurotic, neurasthenic, and fledgling CREATIVE FORCE---are deep in perspective and as detailed as one could conceivably describe thought, feeling, and memory.
Yes, verily, over the course of 27 years, my husband and I did promenade through all three massive volumes of this First Vintage Books Edition.
Our habit was to sit together in the evening, usually for fifteen minutes around 10pm, one of us reading aloud to the other.
Finishing the last page left me with mixed feelings: a sense of triumph at our completed marathon, admiration for Proust whose sweeping arc of narrative came to an eloquent close, and sadness that our journey through his pages had reached its end.
So, my husband and I are going to start over, re-reading this same masterpiece, but this time a different edition with a different translator.
"In reality, every reader is, while he is reading, the reader of his own self.
The writer's work is merely a kind of optical instrument which he offers to the reader to enable him to discern what, without this book, he would perhaps never have perceived in himself.
And the recognition by the reader in his own self of what the book says is the proof of its veracity..." In the end, this is the primary genius of "Search" - the ability to allow the reader to seek out the same paths in themselves that Proust explored.
Read all of Moncrief, plus alternate translation (Treharne) of "The Guermantes Way". Read final 212 pages of the Penguin edition 3 times, (so far). Plan to read at least one more alternate translation entirely, i.e., not Moncrief/Kilmartin. Plan to read all of Moncrief a second time.This was a challenge that ended up being absolutely life-changing, viz., time is what we (happen to) remember. Massive effect on world-view.Should be mandatory reading for grades 10, 11, and 12.It is roughly the length of ten contemporary Novels, yes, but altogether necessary in so many ways.
So far, I have to say that I'm appreciating this book more than the last. The first novel in this collection seems to be about the narrator's obsessive jealous, which is a far more interesting topic than why Mme. Verdurin wants to invite M. de Charlus to her dinner parties or not, which is what it seemed at times the entirety of "Cities of the Plain" was about. Obsession is almost always good copy.
Withered and humbly proud, remembering this work brings suffering and the elusiveness of memory itself meandering close to truth, close to the river of truth. After varied jaunts in mislead scripts, Proust's mental withins only reward--only give. From tisane soaked biscuits to Vintueil's aural invasion, travel in time's greasy grip winks effort at movement in memory's spheres. Much left is to thank and push cerebral giving to action.
The first two books of this final volume of Proust's novel analyzes in minute detail how jealousy fuels love and desire. The final book is mind-blowing and will change the way you think about human existence forever. It forces you back to the very beginning of the novel, and it is on its second reading that the true scope of Proust's monumental novel can truly be grasped.
A hard slog through 3500 pages in all 3 volumes - I set aside a summer when not working to get through them. That was in the early 1980s. The last page makes the effort worth it. So far, I am the only person that I know that has read it completely. Even one of my English profs gave up part way through.
It took me a year to read all three of the books of "Remembrance of Things Past." I limited myself to reading ten pages a day, which is the only way one can read Proust and remain interested. Some of the most beautiful writing I've ever read was in these books, and also some of the most boring. On the whole, I gave the books five stars because the beauty outweighed the boredom enormously.
I am reading The Captive now. I love it. Proust is funny in this most amazing way, especially when he dissects each little social scene, the way he describes Charlus and Morel (particularly Charlus), and the plot to separate the two of them. I will add more as I continue reading. Definitely worth reading all that leads to this great social stuff.
Though most say this last volume bears the indelible stamp of being the volume of works that Proust himself didn't oversee (in terms of publication) I must say I found it to be the most enjoyable, editorial mishaps aside.Between the turbulent and tragic relationship of the narrator and Albertine and the incredible cavalcade of sense-memories in the final volume Time Regained, this is Proust at his finest and literature at its most demandingly compelling.Not only did he create one of the most fantastically imaginative scenes with the final reception at the Guermantes' where he mistakes their barely recognizable old age personages for a masquerade theme, he has crafted one of the most genuinely interesting characters in literature, that being Charlus.I suppose I could provide some excerpts just to show how beautiful the prose is in this English translation by Moncrieff but to do so would somewhat undermine the experience of completing this final volume of this 3200 page odyssey.
This 1100 page tome contains the final three segments of the seven-part series.
Something like 900 of these pages is dedicated to a feeling of extended petty jealousy that our narrator's girlfriend may be having an affair with another woman, or may have done so at some point in the past.
By the time you reach the end, after slogging through a total of somewhere over 3000 pages, you don't feel any sense of wholeness or insight into the scope of Proust's life.
For me, I just felt a sense of relief that I could finally move on to something else.
Este año comencé uno de mis proyectos literarios más ambiciosos como lector: Leer a Marcel Proust y los siete tomos de “En busca del tiempo perdido”.
Después de seis tomos donde el Narrador se admite un fracasado, incapaz de escribir algo verdaderamente de valor, luego de atravesar el río de la memoria se siente con la capacidad de hacerlo, recibe el don del tiempo y a su vez, el don es un castigo cuando se descubre viejo, quizás sin el tiempo suficiente de plasmar todas esas memorias (ya leídas por el lector, y escritas por Proust), en medio de una reunión de viejos aristócratas, donde se encuentra a la mayoría de los personajes (si no es que todos) que Proust ha delatado a lo largo de la búsqueda.
reminds me of an ex of mine. marcel's character is an obsessive, controlling , misanthropic social climber .
