https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/287505.The_German_Lesson
"There's been many a one," the old postman said, "who's saved himself just by not doing his duty at the right time.""Then he's never done his duty at all," my father said curtly."In the far North-West of Schleswig-Holstein, just below the Danish border, the village policeman is intent on carrying out his duty by preventing the artist Nansen (apparently modelled on Emil Nolde) from painting.
The real Nolde a difficult figure, as he was an enthusiastic supporter of the Nazis, the love however was not mutual and they condemned his work.Told from the point of view of the policeman's son as an essay on 'The Joy of Duty' while serving time in a Borstal this is a fine depiction of the state of mind of the National-Socialist period and it's consequences in post war Germany.
One thing that became obvious very quickly was that the word "Nazi" is never once used in the book.
It's a book about duty.
There's also the undercurrent of the protagonist's own sense of duty with runs in two distinct themes.
Finally, the painter has his own sense of duty to his art and craft despite those trying to silence him.
Take away the elements of WWII, take away the Germans, and read this as a study of human character during extreme conditions Nationalistic existentialism.
In the end, the only thing each character has to cling to is his or her own sense of duty.
De hecho, no creo que sea tanto una novela sobre el drama del nazismo como una novela sobre cierta faceta de la personalidad alemana y, por tanto, de cierta clase de personas, sean estas de donde sean: ya lo dice uno de los personajes refiriéndose a su pequeña aldea: “Aquí se encuentra cuanto existe en el mundo.”Personalmente, hubiera deseado leer más sobre el conflicto personal de este humilde policía de pueblo que tiene que cumplir y hacer cumplir las órdenes que recibe de Berlín contra un pintor “degenerado” y antiguo amigo suyo, pero aun así me ha parecido una novela notable y atractiva.
Unfortunately, I must update this review to reflect a report in the German weekly Die Zeit that Emil Nolde, the artist who inspired this novel, was a Nazi sympathizer:http://mobil.zeit.de/kultur/kunst/201...I read this novel some time ago, but since it is one of my favorites, I thought I would call it to your attention (if you have not heard of it).
An interesting fact is that the painter’s fictional name is Max Ludwig Nansen, but he is modeled after an actual Expressionist artist, Emil Nolde.
Nolde, in turn, was an assumed name, as the historical artist was born as Emil Hansen.
He is to write an essay on duty, and through the course of the copybooks he details his childhood in Nazi Germany, his relationship with his father, a police officer, and his friendship with an older artist friend.
When his father's duty is to shut down the paper-friend, Siggi takes it upon himself to save as many of the paintings as he can.
His father, when he finds out, has his son arrested for art theft.I had no previous knowledge about this book before reading it, which is normally how I like to do it anyway.
Wo hört die auferlegte Pflicht auf und beginnt die Pflicht, gegen die Pflicht zu handeln?Es fällt mir nicht leicht, eine Rezension für dieses Buch zu schreiben, denn ich bin nach seiner Lektüre etwas zwiegespalten.
Häufig setzt Lenz als humoristisches Element Übertreibungen ein.Die zentralen Themen des Buches, Pflicht und Schuld, ziehen sich durch das gesamte Buch.
Siggis Vater, der mit dem Maler aufgewachsen und befreundet ist, setzt das Malverbot rigoros durch und verweist dabei stets auf seine Pflicht, so zu handeln.
Er steigert sich regelrecht in diese Aufgabe hinein und setzt sie sogar nach Ende des Krieges noch fort.
I finally picked this book off my shelves when I read that Siegfried Lenz died at the age of 88.
Boy, was I fortunate!What I found most special about Lenz's masterpiece is the way he used description not just to describe or set up a scene, but to complement thoughts and action, often metaphorically.
I generally don’t like a lot of description, but Lenz’s descriptions are wonderfully offbeat, sometimes breathtaking.
I think The German Lesson is equal to this great work, and I don’t understand why it has not been better received in the U.S.
This is my number one book.
It's about a painter who is forbidden to paint during the Third Reich.
The story is told throught he eyes of a young boy whose father is responsible for making sure that the painter does not paint at all.
Instead, the painter painstakingly paints them in his mind's eye.
The descriptions are vivid, the reader can see these wonderful works of art in their minds as well.
This is a fictionalized account of a true story about Emil Nolde the German Impressionist painter.
Nolde was actually an Nazi sympathizer and the Unpainted Pictures created during this period are wonderful watercolors.
Another title for this book might have been "The Joy of Duty", which is the title of the lesson assigned to the book's protagonist, young Siggi, who currently lives in an institution for delinquent youth.
Siggi is initially immobilized by the assignment, eventually turning in a blank notebook.
It is a very personal story and most of it takes place in northern Germany ten years earlier, during the last years of WW2, when Siggi's father is the local policeman for their small town.
A local artist, seen as a threat to the Reich, is prohibited from painting, and Siggi's father becomes the enforcer of the dictates from Berlin.
رمان زنگ انشا خاطرات نوجوانی خلاف کار است که به خاطر دزدیدن چند تابلوی نقاشی دوران بازپروری را در پر
This book is basically about a boy in a detention center who has to write an essay on the topic of "The joys of duty".
His duty turns into a month long writing obsession and he does enjoy it.
The duty, his piece of writing, becomes his life.
My duty was to read this book and I did (FINALLY - thank God!)succeed.
But unfortunately, I didn't really experience the joys of duty.
This book was pretty exhausting to read and I'm just happy that I'm done.
Vader Jepsen en de expressionist Nansen staan lijnrecht tegenover elkaar: het werk van Nansen wordt door de nationaalsocialistische autoriteiten beschouwd als Entartete Kunst, zijn schilderijen worden in beslag genomen en hij krijgt een Berufsverbot opgelegd.
(Wat mij betreft mag daar beslist ook Wolfgang Koeppen aan worden toegevoegd, maar dat terzijde.) De link tussen die drie is hun oorlogsverleden: Grass zat bij de Waffen-SS, Böll diende bij de Wehrmacht en Lenz bij de Kriegsmarine (waar hij wel deserteerde toen hij een revolterende medesoldaat moest executeren).
Everybody should read this book. It's a fictional narrative by a kid in a detention facility looking back on his youth on the flatlands of northern Germany during World War II and his police-officer father's efforts, under orders, to suppress a local expressionist artist. If that doesn't sound great to you, then stick to whatever floats ya, but this book matured me.
Lenz schafft es über die Sprache eine Stimmung zu schaffen, die der Landschaft an der Nordsee total entspricht! Grandiose Sprache, man kann das Buch nicht einfach runterlesen, jeder Satz ist wichtig und muss gelesen werden.
I need to read this again to be reminded of why I liked it so much.
One of my absolute favourites! Great prose, good setting,well-rounded characters, important topics addressed- and never boring, despite of being quite a big volume....Definitely recommended!
La última de estas historias con la que me he topado ha sido "Deutschstunde" ("Lección de alemán") de Sigfried Lenz en la que "el deber" toma las riendas del relato de Siggi y nos configura un recuerdo desde su infancia hasta su prisión donde recicla su memoria por medio de la escritura.
Bij de start dacht ik dat dit dikke (bijna 600 pagina's!) boek in het Duits me maanden zou kosten.
Een wereld van wad en plicht, van kleur en kunst, van koppigheid en loyaliteit.Het gaat over de jonge Siggi die in een soort jeugdgevangenis of inrichting zit.
Tijdens de Duitse les weet hij geen opstel te schrijven over het thema De vreugde van de plicht, omdat het te veel bij hem oproept.
Het is een lang en gedetailleerd verhaal, maar Lenz weet door slimme constructies steeds de spanning vast te houden.
Hach, mir ging richtig das Herz auf beim Lesen. Der Schreibstil ist detaillreich und genau, sodass man sich immer alles vor Augen führen kann. Gerade die Landschaftsbeschreibungen haben Schleswig-Holstein und das Watt und das Meer und den Wind und alles was noch so dazu gehört so gut eingefangen. Ich habe mich richtig zuhause gefühlt in dem Buch.
3,5 *
a leitura é exaustiva mas vale cada estrela.
Excellent. The narrative is constructed in a complex and intriguing way. It deals with serious topics, that are echoed in Germany's identity, culture, and politics until today.
This is a delicate and beautiful book about the mentality that led to the following of orders, no matter how destructive of life and spirit, in Germany during WW2.Written with a frailty which is beautifully conveyed in this translation, the prose is quite lovely and sensitive, as the story unfolds of the erosion of a son's love for his father, due to the policeman father's obsession with duty.
Ironically, the son, Siggi, shares an obsessive tendency with his father, and compulsively writes a punishment essay on duty from his cell in a prison to which his father has had him consigned because of his opposition to his work.
Ce m-a-nvăţat Siegfried?Incitat şi de opinia recentă a Andei despre această carte, mi-am întregit panoplia germană cu capodopera scriitorului german Siegfried Lenz, Ora de germană (Deutschstunde), mare bestseller al anilor '70.Ce-am citit?La fel ca Oscar Matzerath în închisoare, adolescentul Siegfried Jepsen e într-un centru de reeducare şi-şi compune o temă de pedeapsă pentru ora de germană, cu titlul Bucuriile datoriei.
Tema este romanul însuşi şi va consta din amintirile lui din copilărie, pe când tatăl îi era poliţist de provincie într-un sat, în vremea celui de-al treilea Reich.Tema unuAlaturi de problema datoriei - pretenţie nejustificată şi oarbă -, expusă magnific în carte prin personajul tatălui, mi s-a părut importantă tema educării.
The story is based on Emil Nolde's childhood friendship with a neighbour who became a police officer and was faced with the dilemma of betraying his artist friend who was painting in a manner that was considered illegal under the Nazi rule.
I highly recommend a visit to the gallery if you ever find yourself in North west Germany.From Wikipedia:"However Hitler rejected all forms of modernism as "degenerate art", and the Nazi regime officially condemned Nolde's work.
1052 of his works were removed from museums, more than those of any other artist.[2] Some were included in the Degenerate Art exhibition of 1937, despite his protests, including (later) a personal appeal to Nazi gauleiter Baldur von Schirach in Vienna.
L'extraordinari zel amb què l'agent de l'ordre s'aplica per complir aquesta absurda ordre, ignorant una llarga amistat és el motor d'aquesta obra on també sobrevola una reflexió sobre el paper de la família tradicional.El protagonista de la història no és ni el perseguidor ni el perseguit, sinó el fill del policia, el petit Siggi Jepsen que davant del conflicte de treballar com a espia pel seu pare o ajudar el seu amic es decanta progressivament pel segon.
La primera immersió a l'obra de Lenz ha estat sumament profitosa, gaudint d'una prosa minuciosa i d'unes completíssimes descripcions que es contenen abans d'arribar al nivell de saturació.
Amazing book about a boy in a detention facility looking back on his youth during WWII and his policeman father's efforts (under orders) to suppress a local expressionist artist as he is forced to write an essay on the "joys of duty".Indeed, duty is a major theme in this novel.
There's also the undercurrent of the protagonist's own sense of duty with runs in two distinct themes.
Finally, the painter has his own sense of duty to his art and craft despite those trying to silence him.It's not an easy read, but it's worth your time.
It's a beautifully constructed story, richly populated with a superb cast of characters, darkly funny and dominated by the wonderfully-evoked north German landscape.
Told in retrospect through a young boy's eyes, it is the story of how one man (the boy's policeman father) becomes so consumed by his love of duty that it takes him over, at the expense of friendship and family loyalty.
It is a thought-provoking story that stays with you.
We need to know, I would be frightened of anyone who understood the Nazi's and I do not and don't want to but I am continually puzzled, attracted and horrified as if I were reading about a particular horrifying murder that really happened as this mass murder, mass horror did - and within my lifetime so it is not so long ago and never so far away as we look at the modern world today.
I recommend this book to anyone who wants to know history as it was lived and not just on the cold, dry pages of a text book.
I liked the setting of this book, in a youth detention centre after WWII in Germany where a young lad has to write an essay on the joys of duty and describes his memories.
Should you always do your duty?
Sometimes I found it not easy to read, too much detail in the landscape etc but afterwards I found out that the paintings and the landscape described are from an existing German painter, Nolde, who I don't really know.
It makes it a lot more interesting knowing that and it would probably be nice to see the paintings.
