https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/179734.Off_Season
CANNIBALISM: A MORE BALANCED PERSPECTIVE While I really liked this book, I feel compelled to make a few introductory remarks before I discuss the specific merits of the story. I will give Mr. Ketchum the benefit of the doubt and say that I do not believe it was his intention in writing this book to come across as a snobby, elitist, “anti” cannibal bigot. However, the fact remains that this novel is yet another example of popular media perpetrating the negative stereotype of cannibalism. I feel
I find cannibalism, graphic torture and human dismemberment just as funny and amusing as the next guy and thought that the author did a nice job of providing an authentic and detailed representation of the practices discussed.
In fact, statistics confirm that families that practice cannibalism, even if only once a week, are 7 to 10 times more likely to remain together across multiple generations.
I hope the above makes clear that despite the ill-informed, slanted view of cannibals at times portrayed in this book, this community has many positive qualities and deserves to be treated fairly and with respect.
Instead, they get a night of hell!As part of my continuing education in horror, I decided to give Jack Ketchum a chance.
Off Season was one of the works suggested to me by the crew.Off Season is a tale of feral cannibals setting upon a cabin full of city folk in the Maine woods.
It's a combination of survival horror and gore horror, particular emphasis on the gore.This is one brutal book, as is expected when cannibal feral hillbillies are on the prowl.
I'm willing to read another Ketchum book but it'll be a while.
Ten ways to review Off Season, a book about cannibals!!1.
Off Season, the MusicalHe Will Tear us Apart (sung by Laura)Everybody Spurts (sung by the chief cannibal)Stir it Up (sung by his female companion)Oops!
How very ironic!Of course you could review this penny dreadful horror novel in a lightly humorous ten-different-ways-to-review-the-unreviewable way and then in the last section you could satirise your own desire to write wacky reviews, which would be the perfect way to end, don't you think?Chief cannibal : Not if I've got anything to do with it, mate!
How can I write reviews without any fingers??Chief cannibal (speaking with his mouth full, as usual) : You could dictate.
Then there were the edits Ketchum was strong-armed into making—the toning down of the most brutal scenes (no recipe for man-meat jerky or cock-stump spitting), and a deal-breaking ultimatum from his publisher to let a character live whom he had every intention of killing—so that the 1981 publication, while still chockfull of groundbreaking unpleasantness, did not embody Ketchum’s initial vision, which was to write, in his words, something with the “kind of teeth pretty much unseen before in mass-market fiction.” Following its initial 1981 publication, the book promptly went out of print until Leisure Press finally released Ketchum’s uncut, uncensored version of the novel a quarter of a century later in 2006.Enviably accomplished for a debut novel, Off Season draws its inspiration from the legend of Sawney Bean, the Scottish leader of a 15th or 16th Century clan which engaged in mass murder and cannibalism until their capture, torture, and execution.
Oh my god what a disturbing book.
There were moments when I dreaded to continue reading it because I just knew that things would go horribly fucked up with a lot of gore.
This is not the kind of books I usually read and I honestly don’t know if I want to read more of its kind.
Not that the book was bad, it was good, just a bit too disgusting for my taste I must admit.
I prefer paranormal horror that makes you wonder if you should check under the bed and the closet before you sleep not the kind that makes you feel sick.
Off Season: A Dash of Fear From ghoulies and ghosties and long legged beasties, Good Lord, deliver us--Old Scottish Prayer Some time ago a woman with an angelic face asked me if I had ever read anything by Jack Ketchum. Well, I hadn't. Until now. Off Season is my first venture into the novels of Jack Ketchum. Let's say it's a book for the reader with a taste for the different.After a little research into the author, I was intrigued. Ketchum is a four time Bram Stoker Award winner and was named G
Some time ago a woman with an angelic face asked me if I had ever read anything by Jack Ketchum.
Off Season is my first venture into the novels of Jack Ketchum.
Or of human creation.The monsters that prey on the civilized enjoying a cabin in the off season is a savage family of few adults and a brood of children.
Ketchum is a master disciple of those he admires.Originally published by Ballentine Books in 1980, this novel became a hit for readers of horror, with sales in excess of 250,000.
It will make you wonder what's really behind that angelic face of a lovely woman who asks "Have you read any Jack Ketchum?"
This may be one of the most disturbing novels I have ever read. Enough said. (Although, I cannot agree with the previous establishment of rating this novel as "violent pornography". In my estimation, if more horror writers took half the amount of chances in thier work as Ketchum does in his, this genre might be more respected.)HIGHLY RECOMMENDED(This recommendation must be clarified: I do not condone cannibalism in any form.)
No book has come close to topping Off Season, and I doubt that any ever will.In a rural area off the coast of Maine live a tribe of cannibals.
Over the decades travellers and townspeople have disappeared here, but these have been chalked up to the nature of an increasingly mobile, exploding population.
As they eat, sleep, and relax in nature, they are silently being stalked by the cannibal clan, who soon set off an unrelenting assault on the cabin.
You'll be tempted to flip to the last page to see how this book could possibly end.
Jack Ketchum is an author whose works have been in my digital to-read pile for ages.
I decided to start with Off Season, Ketchum's first novel.Holy crap, what a first novel!
Hope is sparse as the blood flows freely from one shocking, nerve destroying, encounter to the next.I've read previously that Ketchum was inspired by the films Night of the Living Dead and The Texas Chainsaw Massacre, and boy-howdy do those influences shine through.
This is horror shone through the prism of reality, and it's one bleak, serious as a heart attack, motherfucker of a book.It's also damn good.
One does not read Jack Ketchum to be entertained.
Like the late, great Richard Laymon, Jack Ketchum is a diabolical motherfucker.
This is the second time I've read OFF SEASON, and the novel has lost none of its punch.
Like I said above, I don't read his books to be entertained.
In summation, I feel a little bad that I enjoy Ketchum's novels as much as I do, but they're also terrific learning tools.
If you want to learn how to make a reader uncomfortable, or enjoy feeling uncomfortable, you can't go wrong with Jack Ketchum.
I think this novel has shaped the way I do things in my own stories more than any other book I read before or since.
A fantastic set up that explodes at about the halfway point with one of the most impactful 30 pages or so I ever read.
I'd read King and Rice, but they never did splatterpunk.
The scenes still manage to make me cringe and think "oh Go, no...", but that first time was a game-changer for me that set the standard for how this type of horror fiction has to be delivered: Raw, unflinching, honest.
3.5There is some extreme grotesqueness in this story but somehow it lost its punch as it neared the end.
SPOILER ALERT:I wouldn't say the book necessarily ended badly so much as I think my senses had just become numb and grew tired of the chase.
This was a story of survival against the cruelest, cannibalistic scenario possible, made even more terrible because most of the assailants were feral children.
And even though they were just children, I couldn't wait to see them getting their tiny little heads blown off.
This whole story was a chase and a battle that started with blood and guts and ended the same way.
My thanksgiving feast will now consist of pepto shots, saltine crackers and fruit flavored tums. Uncle Stevie wasn't kidding.  Job well done Mr. Ketchum.. .
As it was a debut novel, the publishing house had quite a lot of power over the author, and made him cut and edit the book the way they wanted.
In 1999 a small publishing house specialising in horror fiction - Cemetery Dance - picked it up for an reissue; this time including the author's original version, including the text which has been cut from or edited in the first publication.
The violence is extreme and the author pulls absolutely no punches, but that's pretty much all the is to it.The second biggest flaw of Off Season is that it's an one trick pony; there's no meat to it, if you'll pardon the pun.
Off Season was akin to reading "The Texas Chainsaw Massacre". I love that movie and I had a blast with this book. My first Ketchum novel was better than I expected. Highly enjoyable for fans of over the top gore. 4 stars!
What Carla and her company have in store is beyond what many people can handle hearing about, and this is where the book plunges from serene scenery and character development into a black nightmare of infinite proportions that seems to have no way out but through the dark and hungry jaws of the savages.When the civilizations collide and the city dwellers get a nasty shock of reality, they have very little time to absorb the impact of being attacked and hunted by a rabid pack of humans who have a growing appetite for human flesh as it fills them with power and fuels their barbaric primordial magic.
CROATOANyes, this one has a unique preface for the chinese(traditional), i mean taiwanese edition(cuz the agency is the only one which issues jack ketchum's works in chinese on this planet :D), by the author too, like The Girl Next Door, so huhaa non-chinese speaking guys just be envioussince that i'd perused the original one before, i really enjoyed the translation of this book though i'm not very used to traditional/twnese chinese characters and its literary arrays of composing type, but still i love those shitsanyway, i always wonder how those cannibals derived, why do they live on human flesh?
I didn’t go into this novel for something of emotional depth; I was not looking for a story with well-done subtext or fully fleshed characters.
And I got what I was looking for.Having read and been horrified by The Girl Next Door last October, this book had been on my radar for some time.
This book seemed to be filled with cardboard characters: a trademark of the slasher genre, sure, but I didn’t care much for any of these people.
If you’re looking for a quick, grisly read of cannibalism and the macabre, this is the book for you.
This was very disturbing. It's been a while since I've read something this fucked up.
Έχει να κάνει με μία φυλή κανίβαλων με ακραίες σαδιστικές τάσεις, που ενώ κάποιος θα νόμιζε ότι είναι υποανάπτυκτοι νοητικά, ζουν με τη δικιά τους κοινωνική δομή και έχουν αντίληψη για τα πάντα.
Και αυτό τους κάνει τρομερά επικίνδυνους.Στη συνέχεια, μας συστήνεται η Κάρλα, μία κοπέλα που μόλις έχει μετακομίσει σε ένα σπίτι που βρίσκεται αρκετά μακριά από το Ντεντ Ρίβερ για να ηρεμήσει από την πόλη και να επιμεληθεί ένα βιβλίο.
Η Νεκρή Σαιζόν είναι ένα βιβλίο για δυνατά στομάχια, καθώς μερικές σκηνές ξεφεύγουν από την πραγματικότητα και γίνονται τρομερά ωμές και σαδιστικές, βαδίζοντας στη γκρίζα γραμμή της πορνογραφικής βίας.
I can see why this book was a bit of a game changer in 1980.
I'm glad I got to read it in the format intended by the author (albeit still not the original manuscript, which no longer exists) instead of the cleaned-up version.
Warning: It is graphic and even this seasoned reader of horror novels winced several times!
Some "gross" books have zero story line and bore me to tears.
Had I a copy of this book back in the early '80's, I would've hid under the covers for a month.
Now, I just gag, laugh, and keep reading.
Crrreeeeeeeeeppy!
Stop reading now if you plan on reading Off Season.Again, I have a really hard time rating Ketchum, because I cannot say in any way that I "enjoyed" this book.
I can appreciate what Ketchum is trying to accomplish, which is probably verbatim what I said in my review for The Girl Next Door, but I don't really think that this type of novel is my thing.
Ketchum cut it from the other novel and decided to publish it with this edition of Off Season.
I get that this book has been through a lot of revisions, but this was so blatant that it dragged me out of the story every time it happened.
Recorre la historia de la matanza perpetrada por un grupo de caníbales en Maine.El libro comienza con la persecución de una mujer que detuvo su auto en plena carretera porque vio a una niña que pensó podría necesitar ayuda pero que en realidad era una salvaje y ahí se va todo en picada.
Pero está muy bien logrado este libro.En esta historia hay mucha violencia, mucha, mucha, el libro es sumamente descriptivo y eso es espectacular porque es como estar viéndolo todo ahí en frente mientras lees peeeeero no se si es para todo el mundo."Abrió los ojos y vio que a (view spoiler)[Laura (hide spoiler)] le faltaban los dos brazos a la altura del codo, y las dos piernas a la altura de las rodillas.
A little less would have still gotten the message of how inhumanely we treat each other, and if you look at it it only drives the plot early on, after the initial attack; then it's thrill filler, ho hum.
Oh, and I don't need the recipe either.All this said, the novel requires a huge portion of suspension of disbelief to swallow the entire premise of the story to begin with and the first half doesn't do much to develop characters other than Carla, so we don't really care about the ones that are left after Carla takes the dirt nap rather early on.
It's probably one of the most gory, violent and insane horror books I ever read.This is a story about how a group of friends is attacked by a family of mad cannibals, so you can expect a lot of disturbing scenes on this book.
Even though I have read other splatterpunk books I have to say that some scenes of this novel really disgusted me but at the same time I couldn't put it down.If you "enjoy" extreme horror books go for it; in my opinion it was a great novel.
A los amantes del terror grotesco, repugnante y violento, les recomiendo ampliamente esta historia que excede los límites de lo gráfico. Por momentos es casi insufrible la cantidad de sucesos dantescos y gore que se detallan en esta novela. Me gustó mucho porque no se me da mucho el terror tan sangriento, siempre me volqué más a lo paranormal y lo fantasmal, sin embargo me encantó haberme encontrado con una novela que me alterara así los nervios y me retorciera tanto el estómago. Es Octubre, es mi permitido. Para la video-reseña les dejo mi canal: https://www.youtube.com/coosburton
So I had high expectations going when I opened this book up and began to read.
I have read only one other Ketchum book entitled The Crossings.
I can't believe I never got wind of Ketchum until recently, as he has been writing since the early eighties if not longer.I'm happy I discovered Ketchum.
He is a writer with no apologies regarding the extreme and often stomach turning violence within his novels.
This was his first novel, and the version I got was his newly restored original version.
I don't know. Thought it would be better. I remember loving it when it was released in '81. I find this uncut version to be overall flat. Love the gore and action sequences but the characters... difficult to root for either one of them.
Δυνατό και αρκετά ακραίο, ακριβώς όπως λένε όλοι.Στους φίλους του είδους θεωρώ ότι εξακολουθεί και αρέσει ακόμα και σήμερα, παρότι κοντεύει πλέον τα 40 χρόνια από τότε που κυκλοφόρησε. Η ηλικία του φαίνεται σαφώς, αλλά χωρίς να ενοχλεί.Δεν θα το συνιστούσα με τίποτα σε όσους δεν έχουν ξαναδιαβάσει τρόμο. Θα ήταν καλύτερο να ξεκινήσουν με κάτι πιο ήπιο.
