https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7865083-liar-s-poker
Great read.The author quite obviously dislikes and has nothing but contempt for the banking industry - he resigned from Salomon Brothers to write this book but at the time was still married to Diana de Cordova, an investment banker with Morgan Stanley.
Relevant because it seems the Big Swinging Dicks of Wall Street are ever with us; ancient because of references to things like WATS lines and the lionizing of Salomon Brothers trader John Meriwether, whose Long-Term Capital Management would spectacularly implode in 1998, and Michael Milken, who apparently had not yet been indicted when the book went to press but got a 10-year prison sentence for securities violations.Lewis is a raconteur more than a documentarian, which is both pleasing and irritating.
"We'd order four hundred dollars of Mexican food," says a former trader.
Atlas Shrugged for the philistine. It's subtle glorification of the greedy, underneath a veneer of hilarious sarcasm and grudging respect is the stuff financial Bibles are made of.An interesting slice of financial history is captured succinctly, more precisely the development of Collaterized Mortgage Obligations in the 80's which also has direct relevance to the recent U.S housing crisis.If you wish to get everything you can out of this book, get your Finance 101 straight. It'll be a lot more fun.
pp 83 is a discussion of S&L's failure in the US.pp 136 is the best explanation of CMO's I've ever read.Great read.
Initially loaned to me by a coworker.
I went out and bought it shortly thereafter.A former art student winds up becoming a bond salesman for Salomon Brothers in the mid 1980's.
Chernobyl.
Good deal of relevant information for both the average investor as well as the seasoned professional.
When the news about Chernobyl breaks Mike's good friend has some advice for him, "Buy potatoes." This is a powerful illustration of how traders, not investors, think.A spread, any spread...
Instead, it's very much a memoir of that world.
And I didn't care for it at first, since the group of people he writes about are so spectacularly awful.
He brings a certain world of investment banking trainees home to you, and I wanted nothing to do with it.
Something like the way some people don't like The Office (esp.
The sense of battle, politicking, and putting up fronts.
He comes off as a whistle blower with no sense that he's betraying his world; just an inside man dissecting a world he finds amusing, deranged, and perversely fun.
He wagered that over a period of ten years the S&P 500 (a passive index) would outperform a group of five hedge funds* handpicked by Protege, with the loser donating one million dollars to the charity of the winner's choice.(*Hedge Fund: A limited partnership of investors that uses high risk methods, such as investing with borrowed money, in hopes of realizing large capital gains.)With one more year to go (as of this writing), here are the results thus far: The hedge funds are up a cumulative 22 percent.
It is a memoir by best-selling author Michael Lewis about his brief stint working for the investment firm Salomon Brothers during the mid-eighties.So, you may well ask, what does this have to do with Warren Buffett?Well, there are two connections.
First book of this type I truly enjoyed. Thank you Lewis for opening up a new field of book to explore.
However, Liar's Poker drips with 'I could see it coming from the second it began', 'I hated screwing clients but it was what I had to do' (every uniformed low-level goon in a dictatorship's first excuse) and 'all these people [bankers] are so horrible'.
Once it was popular to want to be a banker, so Michael Lewis became a banker, now it's popular to hate them, so he hates them.
Why am I languishing here, making approximately $0 dollars as a librarian?
In his introduction to the Big Short, Lewis writes that he was dismayed people took Liar's Poker not as a cautionary tale, but as a how-to manual for their careers.
He makes the trading floor sound like the place to be, the absolute center of the universe.
I've heard people say that his writing is successful because it makes readers feel smart, and I get that.
Although sometimes, when you have failed to understand something so colorfully and breezily explained, it can actually make you feel...less smart.
Billed as an expose of Wall Street greed, I found it more to be a story of incompetent management and political infighting by conceited executives who found themselves successful by being in the right place at the right time, but think themselves as geniuses.
Some of this reminded me a lot of my father's stories of the politics at his former law practice.
It's funny to see Lewis wishing the company had been bought out by private equity firms just so they would fire the management.
To me this book is another example that companies can sometimes be successful in spite of their leaders if they have a decent product and some luck.
The unadulterated, unchecked greed with which the bond traders knowingly fleeced "suckers" in the market is staggering not by the reaches of their malfeasance, but rather that those unsavory characters continue to exist, in increasingly more dastardly versions as the years go by, and in all areas of Wall Street, banking and government.
I'm happy I read this book after The Big Short: Inside the Doomsday Machine because it makes that more recent book much more poignant in retrospect.
Couldn't get into this one. Too much testosterone and greed to really be of interest. I wouldn't want to be in these people's company and find little of interest in their subculture, unfortunately, it is a very powerful group.
Througout the book, Michael Lewis describes to macho-nature of the financial world by using slang terms, such as a human pirahana (someone who curses in every single sentence) and a big swinging dick (the head honcho in the room).I liked this book a lot because Lewis blends his unique brand of deadpan humor with actual facts about his time on Wall Street.
I also like it because the book had a lot of ramifications in the financial world.
The book practically ended a few careers as it exposed many brokers for being loose with their money and becuase many people had just been pulled right out of high school.
Đọc Lewis thì khỏi phải nói rồi, rất thỏa mãn ở khía cạnh giải trí.
Đây có lẽ là một trong những quyển thú vị ngôn ngữ nhất về phố Wall (đọc là: buồn cười) mà tôi đọc được.
Nếu Flash Boys  hơi nặng tính kỹ thuật và chỉ trích, The Undoing Project thiên về tính lịch sử và thán phục thì Liar’s Poker, đúng như cái tên, nghiêng về những trò mánh khóe và lừa bịp (The Big Short và Moneyball thì tôi mới chỉ xem phim, chưa đọc sách).Với những kinh nghiệm ít ỏi của tôi khi còn “ở bên trong” thị trường chứng khoán thì quả đúng là như vậy.
I think that Michael Lewis is a superb writer. He takes a complex topic, such as mortgage-backed securities, and explains them so that your every(wo)man can understand them. He is also a great observer of human character, and he writes about people with great aplomb. I feel as if I personally know his characters. While the subject matter of investment banking in the 1980s is filled with blind greed, leaving the reader disgusted, Lewis manages to make this book a fabulous read.
I'll always be poor because so much of this makes absolutely no sense.
I can't understand the motivation of these people to invent a new ...
Something about mortgages?
And whilst doing that they made the huge mistake of not also inventing junk bonds!
The idiots!
And then there's people who are always going to be so successful cos they're mavericks and do the opposite of what everyone else does ...
and then there's people who are always going to be crap cos they follow wild hunches and don't listen to the market.
Aren't they literally the same people?
An honest attempt on the life of a bond trader: not the philosophy, nor the routine struggles but the very aspects of inside baseball, juicy gossips and harsh realities. It's not hard to see how careers were made in the 80s in a firm whose rise and fall happened in that decade. It never directly tells you anything other than office politics, but powerful tangents an average human can draw are insightful for an investment banking career.
This was my 7th book by the author and I have loved all his earlier books. Even I was surprised how much I disliked this one.Unlike the other books, this was a memoir of the author's days from investment banking. Remember U.S. Investment bankers ? The guys who paid themselves fat bonuses after the govt bailout in 2008. The guys who broke every barrier of greed in their insane lust for profits. This is about how one of the biggest investment banking firms "Salomon Brothers" worked in the 1980s.Somehow, it failed to interest me.
Eerie to read the 1980s description of the 2000s financial crisis. Everything old is new again. And Lewis is just an incredible non-fiction writer, weaving anecdotes with explanations.
Not that it provides solutions to the problems (far from it), but it illustrates the problem space perhaps better than any other book I know.It does this by means of a sympathetic, yet introspective, portrayal of the vicious, base-natured villainy that is Wall Street Corporate culture.
There is little room to doubt that the attitudes and practices presented in this book are directly responsible for far reaching problems affecting the world, yet it's easy to see why instead of being received as a warning the book was embraced as a how-to guide by a generation of ambitious would-be finance jockeys."Never before have so many unskilled twenty-four-year-olds made so much money in so little time as we did this decade in New York and London.
The book captures the experiences of Michael Lewis as a Salomon bond salesman.
But what it includes in more excruciating detail is "the" truth about the glorified Wall Street (using this phrase in a rather generic sense to include markets in other locations as well), and the rise and fall of one of its inhabitants, Salomon Brothers, in the 1970s and 80s.
Some of my favorite quotes from the book:"That was how a Salomon trader thought: he forgot whatever it was that he wanted to do for a minute and put his finger on the pulse of the market.
Lewis describes his first qualms and eventual acceptance of "jamming" bad bond deals down the throats of European investors and the praise from his superiors whenever he had sold a horrible deal.
(Not surprisingly, Salomon's irate customers soon stopped taking the abuse and not long after Lewis published this book it was bought up by Traveler's Group and later Citi.)Perhaps most interesting for those reading the book today, Lewis takes a strange 100-page segue to describe the history of mortgage-backed securities, the first of which was sold by Salomon brothers trader Lewis Ranieri in 1979.
Liar's Poker is a book about the days that Michael Lewis spent at Solomon Brothers as a Bond broker during the bond boom that took place starting in the 80's.
It is clear that the customer is a victim to be exploited by this industry.It is amazing to realize that institutional investors like pension funds and trusts make multi-billion dollar investments in some of these bonds which turn out to be little more than a speculative gambles of varying levels of risk.
Сложилось впечатление, что многие больше полюбили не саму книгу, а автора с его весьма хорошо подвешенным языком и контрастными метафорами.
Описанная изнанка жизни воротил с Уолл-Стрит, самой компании Salomon Brothers, а также и конкретно маклеров и брокеров сказать что удивила всё равно что ни сказать ничего.
Да нет, иначе как криминал который не выгодно замечать руководству компаний и активно его покрывать в том числе активно лоббируя законы для его скрытия, запутывания и создавая лазейки это назвать никак не можно.
И если вам интересна изнанка Уолл-Стрит в начале и средине восьмидесятых в одном из его центров - несомненно читать стоит!
The last line is probably the funniest/most ironic line I've read all year.
I read The Big Short: Inside the Doomsday Machine before reading this, so my expectations might have been biased, but I was hoping for something that did more than illuminate some scandalous activity.
Lewis does much better in making his characters palpable in The Big Short.He touched upon this a couple times, but he never entirely pounced upon this: he should have written the book as an ethnography.
He explains in The Big Short that college graduates would read this book and ask him for advice, reading it as a training manual.
It is deeply personal, and Lewis's Liar's Poker has more of Michael Lewis in it than the other books by a fairly substantial margin.I really enjoy the book, and think that the personal elements of the storytelling are a big part of what makes it engaging and fun.
This is, again, a standard feature of first works.That said, I think that this is a worthwhile read, for those who are interested in finance or even simply those who are interested in the sort of good stories that Lewis is famous for telling.
The fat paychecks that the bond traders and bond salesmen draw for duping the clients basis the fact that they know a little more than the clients is quite hilarious.
Overall, an interesting read if you want to know about how life is for a trader/bond salesman and why do companies fall due to internal politics.Food for thought - Would you want to be a part of office politics, rise in life(maybe) and nosedive (maybe) [ Ranieri, Gutfreund] or you would want to shy away from the politics, do your work and go with the paycheck after every month and repeat the process month after month [Dash]
Liar's Poker records the author's experience as a bonds trader for Solomon Brothers, at the height of the 80's trading explosion - an accurate, and frightening, account of the ludicrous nature of the whole industry.
Perhaps the most shocking aspect of the book is the attitude of the traders: to make money at any cost, regardless of the consequences.
When they mortgages collapses, so did all the derivative securities - but the obfuscation was deep enough so that many, many people bought those derivatives who should have known better.Overall, Liar's Poker is well-written and entertaining enough to recommend to anyone, but it's also a disturbingly enlightening lens through which to see our current financial struggles.
I liked Moneyball, and The Big Short is one of my favorite books, but Liar's Poker was disappointing.Since it is a story about life in an investment bank, I expected Wolf of Wall Street-style parties and debauchery, but none of that happened.
We are introduced to a host of people, but there are no central figures in the story.On the whole, Lewis provides an interesting look at the inside of an investment bank and some of the history of bond trading, but it paled in comparison to the other books Lewis has written.
