https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/200146.Marxism_and_the_Philosophy_of_Language
Here are some points which I enjoyed reading:Part I, Chapter 1: "The Study of Ideologies and Philosophies of LanguageHe makes the point that ideologies are expressed in signs.-- "Everything ideological possesses 'meaning': it represents, depicts, or stands for something lying outside itself.
I'm not sure if I completely agree with this, but it's an interesting thought-- "Signs arise when individuals are organized socially.
This sounds complicated but it's the same as the phrase "history is told by the winners."Part I Chapter 3: Philosophy of Language and Objective Psychology-- "The reality of the inner psyche is the same reality as that of the sign...
As its title suggests, Volosinov’s book lays the foundations for a Marxist philosophy of language—one that functions at the levels of the social and sociology rather than romantic individualism or philological abstraction.
Signs and consciousness are thus ideological effects rather than causes of social organization.
Volosinov subsequently considers “how sign reflects and refracts existence in its process of generation” (19).
Language “emerges as a continuous process of becoming,” always in response—not as the monumental “alien word” of the philologist (81).
solid. many noteworthy things here, but the pithy summation is in the line "the sign is an arena of class struggle." proponents of the view that bakhtin wrote this pseudonymously might regard that line as a parody of Stalinist orthodoxy, but I am inclined to believe that voloshinov is a real guy who really authored this text, and perhaps authored it in earnestness.that somewhat obsolete line of inquiry aside, the notion that the sign itself is a locus of class struggle (through its material deployments and material interpretations, say) is pregnant.
Wow. Difficult, but this is full of ideas that will radically challenge and open up how you think about language, literature and society, and I found it supremely useful in thinking through some of my ideas of popular education, social change, and struggles over hegemony. Some of the things that I liked most were often simple asides from his main points and I wish they had been developed, and so I am even angrier with Stalin (now that I know he disappeared Volosinov) than I was before.
An exceptional theorisation of language and communication. Intimately related to pragmatic approaches to the discursive production of societies (e.g. Mead, Wittgenstein), Voloshinov approach offers a philosophy of language linking daily interaction with ideological (re)production of social 'structures'.
Wait a minute - goodreads has this listed as being by Bakhtin under a pseudonym, but that is a very controversial attribution. Not good scholarship, goodreads! Tsk tsk...
