https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/50851.Farmer_in_the_Sky
By the way we might still have this problem, 67 years after the book was published but it is amusing that Heinlein was so wrong about the reason for this...Anyway a father and his son, George and Bill Lermer decided they were fed up with the situation (oops, looks like I made a bad pun) and jumped at the opportunity to go to a newly established colony on Ganymede - one of the Jupiter's moons.
The most surprising part of the read for me was that I liked the Earth part more that what follows, exotic space locations and all.
As a kid, I never liked learning just for its own sake, but you can't help learning something about rockets, celestial mechanics, & ecology as Bill, a young Eagle Scout, immigrates to Ganymede to start a new life as a farmer.
His descriptions of how the ship got to Ganymede and the night sky were wonderful & perfectly in character.Bill explains what he learns every step of the way on his new adventure.
Obvious today, I guess, but when I first read it around 1970, a whole new world & way of thinking opened up for me.
(Think 'Mother Earth News' & Silent Spring.) Back to nature was the cool thing, but how far?
I love me some good old classic science fiction... This book was just wonderful, short and sweet, and the only thing that saddened me was the fact that it reminded me of Andy Weir's Martian, when it should have been the other way around. The first step into my Hugo Awards odyssey was quite promising, can't wait for what's to come next :)
In Farmer we have microwave ovens, easy space travel, and mass-to-energy conversion technology, but we also have a teenager who plays accordion and cribbage, works hard on his merit badges, and thinks girls are yucky.
I think this book may have put me off of him forever, since about halfway through it the theme to The Andy Griffith Show started playing in my head and wouldn't stop.
Next!I can't go as low as 1 star because the book does have a few good bits, just not enough to redeem it.
All I can remember about this book is a boy and his Dad and his sister travel as colonists to a different planet to settle.
At the end they discover alien technology/life but don't make any contact, for some reason that I can't recall.
Implicitly the consequences of our history are insoluble, the answer is the cosmos as expanding frontier, under which all problems can be swept and ignored.Life is short and there are more memorable books to read.
It is remarkably hard to hunt down some of the earliest books that were nominated for a Hugo at either of the libraries I have access to, but I assumed that one of Heinlein's juveniles would not particularly pose a challenge.
I was just surprised that it had been a problem at all, particularly since the one I picked up used was a recent re-issue.Note: The rest of this review has been withheld due to the changes in Goodreads policy and enforcement.
You can read why I came to this decision here.In the meantime, you can read the entire review at Smorgasbook
This is the first Heinlein Juvenile that I haven't really loved. It was certainly well written and interesting, but not a lot happened. It tells the story of some Earth colonists settling on Ganymede. Unfortunately, it's long on the details of the process and short on action, mystery and intrigue. Only at the very end is there a really interesting discovery. Definitely my least favorite so far among the early Heinlein works.
The novel was awarded a Retro Hugo award in 2001.Set at an unspecified time in the future, the overcrowded Earth is establishing colonies throughout the solar system, including one on a newly terra-formed Ganymede, the third and largest of Jupiter’s Galilean moons.
While the planetary science about Ganymede is dated, remember that what we believe to be true now will be dated soon as well, so don’t let those details get in the way of the story.The underlying themes of this book are strong and are invoked many times during the narrative.
CON UN TEMPO DE NARRACIÓN ENVIDIABLE Y UN BUEN RAMILLETE, PERO DOSIFICADO, DE ALGUNAS DE LAS TEMÁTICAS Y VIRTUDES DE SUS ‘HISTORIAS DEL FUTURO’ (la temática de la colonización, la exploración planetaria, la adaptación a otros planetas ajenos a nuestro sistema, el rumbo de una nueva sociedad, la inevitable guerra, hambre y desgracias que conlleva el desarrollo, que en un principio es beneficioso para el humano por deterioro de su planeta...), ES UN GRAN TRABAJO DE ESTRUCTURACIÓN Y REALISMO PATENTE (MEDIANTE LA NARRACIÓN EN PRIMERA PERSONA DE BILL, UN JOVEN QUE DESEA SER GRANJERO PARA SUSTENTARSE POR EL MISMO) DE LO QUE SERÍA EL ‘RETRATO’ DE LA COLONIZACIÓN DE LOS HUMANOS, COMO PIONEROS EN UN PLANETA POR ACABAR DE EXPLORAR.
Possibly even whole oceans.) Not only might these bodies of water be habitats of life like those around hydrothermal vents (not sterile at all, likely), but you'd have to do something will all that water, which would probably lead to significant cloudbursts if an atmosphere were created at all--and gullywashers would wash away any soil that wasn't almost immediately anchored by plant roots and filtered by leaves, humus, etc.
And Ganymede is even closer to Jupiter than Io. You'd have to come up with some sort of solution to the magnetic fluxes before you could even CONSIDER setting up colonies there.
Not from Jupiter itself, maybe--there'd be a tidal bulge, which might create what would effectively be a permanent hill of water (wonder how that'd work?).
This is probably my favourite feel-good book among Heinlein's juveniles, maybe because I first read it as a kid, borrowed from the university library shelf of pulp fiction ghettoised for academic analysis.
I recently got the Kindle edition and re-read it.
But the action moves at a good speed, and it takes a very optimistic view about humans destiny on other planets.
Recommended for nostalgics, and for the children of people who understand that the kids probably won't take on John Wayne's view on life after a single fun book.
Es entretenido comparar, es motivante el coraje de llegar y decir, y además ese "error" es parte del proceso: Asimov solía enfatizar a la ciencia ficción como esencial en el progreso humano, porque ayuda a convertir lo soñado en realidad, y es que todo empieza desde la imaginación.No toda la ciencia está desactualizada, además, y los problemas sociológicos son aún más actuales que tal ciencia.
Porque, en el fondo, el espíritu humano es el mismo.Tres estrellas porque, pese a todo, creo que hay libros mejores.
The skills he learned in Boy Scouts prove to be helpful for this and other tasks he undertakes to help his new colony.You can’t get much more exciting than taking a spaceship to Ganymede to build a new colony, so youngsters looking for speculative adventure will surely enjoy Farmer in the Sky. But I think the book is also appealing to kids who enjoy frontier stories such as Little House on the Prairie.
When I see Nick Podehl’s name on the cover, I know it’s going to be a great audio production.A shorter version of Farmer in the Sky was originally serialized in Boy’s Life magazine in the fall of 1950 under the title “Satellite Scout,” so that gives you a good sense of its target audience.
For one thing, the hard science fiction aspects are quite interesting - in particular, Heinlein paints a picture of the alien landscape of Ganymede as being a hybrid of a world completely unlike Earth - as all worlds that aren't Earth should rightly be expected to be - and Earth itself.
That particular section was pretty thought provoking - exploring the idea of how human society reacts to its own overwhelming growth.
It does have a couple of thought-provoking sections, but those are pretty tough to reach for all but the most dedicated classic science fiction fans.
"Farmer in the Sky" is a Heinlein juvenile (today we'd call it Young Adult science fiction) about a plucky boy who joins the colonization effort on Ganymede to escape Earth's overcrowding, food rationing, and the memory of his recently deceased mother.
For the present, I think this would be a good book to recommend to a young reader who's maybe not quite ready yet for something like Kim Stanley Robinson's Red Mars - think Ganymede instead of Mars, and boy scouts and pioneer-like farmers as opposed to a bunch of dysfunctional scientists.I'm rating this book three stars, but I'm rating it the way I think its target audience would.
I have not changed my opinion of the story, after all of these years.
I still really liked it!
It never really mattered to me if it was scientifically correct or not.
This is a great story to dream about, even now, 50 years later.Hard work and opportunity.
This is a story of a young man and his family who go to one of the moons of Jupiter to be farmers.
It is not easy, but they find out who they really are and what matters most, and like the Boy Scouts of America motto "to be prepared".
Good solid scifi adventure. Really enjoyed it
I have been interested in the process of colonization for years.
In 1990 I published an article analyzing the survival pattern of the Mayflower colonists during the first year when half the colony died (having relatives along on the voyage was a big help in staying alive!!).
space status – on such a mundane but interesting topic as scouting, as in boy scouting.
Much of the book concerns the very topic that Andrew Weir took up recently in “The Martian,” namely agriculture on a dead planet and goes into great detail on the ins and outs of this arduous process.
This is another Heinlein that has held up fairly well.
It is a good story.
Not much sexism or racism in this book....some hysterical entitled women, but there were also digs at bossy entitled guys who don't know what they are trying to boss.
The final adventure of the book seemed a bit tacked on since it didn't seem to flow logically from the prior event, the earthquake and conditions from that.
Not nearly as good as Time for the stars or Space Cadet, but worth a read if you like Heinlein or want a feel for how earlier Science Fiction worked.
For that, and possibly other reasons, I had to ask my dad to switch to some other book that wasn't so advanced!I did eventually read it sometime in junior high, after one of my teachers (re)introduced me to Heinlein, but by then I was perhaps just a bit too old and didn't think too much about the book as I plowed through nearly the entire output of RAH in about three years.So when I ran across a recent reprint in a thrift store for a dollar, I picked it up on a whim.
In some ways this is like listening to the Little House books by Laura Ingalls Wilder as Bill details homesteading on Ganymede.
If someone made Farmer in the Sky into a movie today, they’d be repurposing it to fit current worries over the environment or lowering birth rates in industrialized countries.
You get everything from awe at the things Bill encounters, panic at extreme danger, or the annoyance of a teenage boy at his father.I don’t think that Farmer in the Sky is Heinlein’s best work for juveniles.
That said, Farmer in the Sky is a solid book that I can highly recommend.Note: This review originally appeared at SFFaudio.
I liked it anyway.
Heinlein's also stuck working with the information on the solar system he had at the time, which even as recently as 1950 had major gaps.
Until the 1960s astronomers were pretty sure there was flourishing seasonal vegetation on Venus.) But he does a great job working out some of the details of what life would be like in a harsh terraforming colony.
This is like, the much shorter, significantly more readable fun uncle to Red Mars.What really stood out to me though is the pervasive attitude of optimism.
While today I can clearly see the severe censorship the author met in his juveniles, which are quite unlike either modern YA books or his own works for more mature audience, it is great how he overcome it to preach his vision on how a man (they are mostly for boys after all) should behave – honest, helping, independent and self-reliant.
There is a lot of edu-tainment, Heinlein style, a bit of hand-waving technology to advance the plot and, as usual for RAH, a lot of adventure in space and on the planet.Honestly, I cannot state that this is the best Heinlein’s juvenile, there are a few I’d prefer, but it is quite solid if you like the author or have a nostalgia about good old SF, with not much sex and gore.
De la época de post-adolescente en la cual, en papel, me leí casi todo lo de Heinlein se me había escapado este título.En aquella época lejana posiblemente le hubiese puesto un sobresaliente.
Hoy, un 7/10, sobre todo porque aún se ve al MAESTRO de la narración y al que conseguía despertar en el lector ese “sentido de la maravilla”, ese asombro antes mundos y situaciones dominadas a puro golpe de fuerza de voluntad, conocimientos e ingenio.Otro de sus libros en el que el protagonista es un adolescente que, por comportamiento, parece el más cabal y el más íntegro de los Hombres.
This is one of Heinlein's "juveniles" but still enjoyable to an adult.
The hero is a boy/young man named Bill who emigrates to a fledgling colony on Ganymede along with his dad, and new step -mother and -sister.
I'm not sure how realistic the science here is, but it isn't over-the-top.
It definitely works for the story.The major appeal is the development of Bill and co.
It reads quickly and well.
The plot is definitely linear, and just now that's exactly what i wanted.
This was a good read.
I'll definitely seek out more Heinlein novels.
Leer a Heinlein siempre es entretenido y divertido. La novela fue publicada inicialmente en 1950 y no fue hasta el 2001 que recibió el premio Retro Hugo.Los Lermer deciden escapar de una Tierra superpoblada a tal punto que la comida es racionada. Se alistan al proyecto Júpiter con la esperanza de convertirse en colonos de Ganímedes y tratar de empezar una nueva vida.
Overall the story of populating another planet was very interesting and the world Heinlein created in Farmer in the Sky was good.
I understand that he wanted the reader to understand the conditions on Ganymede, but it felt too forced at times.I think I hung with the story because I am an avid farmer and love to read about farming.
If it were created into a movie and stuck to the book exactly as it was written, I'm afraid the movie might not be that interesting.
This was my first Heinlein book and I plan on reading others that I found by him at a garage sale.
A few years back I bought a couple of science fiction novels at one of these sales.
The story revolves around tensions in young Bill's life, without too much action until an earthquake kills his stepsister and destroys his farm.Like many other surviving families Bill's considers returning to earth.
In the hospital, he decides to stay on Ganymede for good and be the eponymous farmer in the sky.This is a kind of innocent story.
No adult situations or cursing, but also nothing quite as exciting as we find in current day science fiction.
Perhaps I'm just spoiled from reading so current-day young adult literature.
В 1947 году фантаст Роберт Хайнлайн, известный всем любителям жанра по многочисленным рассказам из цикла “История будущего”, написал наконец свой первый большой роман - “Ракетный корабль “Галилео”.
Неожиданная поддержка пришла к Хайнлайну со стороны издательства Scribner, которое согласилось издать не только этот роман, но и все остальные книги про подростков, которые Хайнлайн напишет в будущем.
Продолжался этот роман между фантастом и издателем чуть больше десяти лет и породил 12 первосортных книг, читать которые обожали не только подростки, но и взрослые.
Эпос закончился в 1959 году, когда Хайнлайн принес в издательство рукопись 13-й книги - “Звездного десанта”.
In my ongoing quest to read all the Heinlein juveniles I’ve neglected, here’s the latest.
I know this book was published in 1950 (after being serialized in Boy’s Life, the Boy Scout Magazine, earlier in the year) but when the step mom abandons her sick daughter because “a wife’s place is with her husband.” rubs me the wrong way.
Overall, I’m glad I read it, but probably won’t be revisiting it any time soon.Full review here: https://captainjaq.wordpress.com/2016...
