https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1251054.The_Colour_Out_of_Space_and_others
"El color que cayó del cielo"... ¡qué nombre zarpado para un cuento! y qué aterrador...

او حتى يك گريموا (دايرة المعارف موجودات و طلسم ها و جادو جنبل هاى داستان هايش) به نام "نكرونوميكون" تهيه كرد كه در ميان منابع فارسى به "رستاخيز مردگان" معروف است و كافى ست نام آن را جست و جو كنيد تا ببينيد كه چه بساطى با اين نام و شخصيت تخيلى آن، "عبدل الحضرت"، براى خرافه دوستان به راه انداخته اند.اين كتاب سه داستان از معروف ترين آثار لاوكرفت را جمع آورى كرده است.‏رنگى از دنياى ناشناختهداستان اول كه هم نام عنوان كتاب است، به سرگذشت شخصى بى نام مى پردازد كه براى بررسى شرايط منطقه اى در غرب "آرخام" جهت احداث سد آبى، به آنجا سفر مى كند تا مطالعات ميدانى انجام دهد.
What the actual fuck, Lovecraft.
Never sleeping with the lights off again.I'm not a huge horror buff.
I scare easily and the fear stays with me for a long time.
I've decided to start reading though some Lovecraft because I want to be able to say I've read Lovecraft.
As I was checking out at Barnes & Noble, the cashier told me I was in for a treat.
The lack of description of the "monster" itself (or the remains of its victims) is what scared me the most, leaving my brain to imagine all sorts of twisted horrors.
But really, I will not sleep tonight.
Da un altro luogo Tra le vallate del New England un'entità degli spazi siderali trova sede; un colore non conosciuto sulla terra capace di terminare, letteralmente, piante, animali e uomini.L'inesorabile caduta della cittadina diventa teatro di una lotta ad armi impari in cui l'uomo, infimo nei biechi meccanismi che regolano il cosmo, è solo trascurabile vittima di un ignoto che non conosce regole né confini.
CLASSIC Lovecraft. The Colour Out of Space, The Picture in the House, The Call of Cthulhu, Cool Air, The Whisperer in Darkness, The Terrible Old Man, The Shadow Out of Time. An amazing collection I found at my local library for 10¢.
One of many chilling stories of Lovecraft. Story of strange goings on."It was just a colour out of space - a frightful messenger from unformed realms of infinity beyond all Nature as we know it; from realms whose mere existence stuns the brain and numbs us with the black extra-cosmic gulfs it throws open before our frenzied eyes."
WARNING!Do not read this book at night!I repeat do not read this book at night!May cause insomnia or terrible nightmares!
4.5 StarsCreative, eerie and more science fiction feeling than other works by HPL
Just when I think I've found my favorite Lovecraft story, I'll read another and my new favorite is born.
Ive watched the B-movie adaption from 1987's The Curse.
For a small-budget film, that really wasn't too bad.
The story was even better.
Lovecraft's writing was so vibrant in this tale.
It felt like I could picture the meteor hitting the farm, smell the drinking water it tainted, taste the rotten fruits and vegetables that it affected, see the crazy colours in the presence's aura, and feel the dread from the characters that came in contact with it.
What a perfect story.5 out of 5 starsYou can also follow my reviews at the following links:https://kenmckinley.wordpress.comhttps://www.goodreads.com/user/show/5...http://www.amazon.com/gp/profile/A2J1...TWITTER - @KenMcKinley5
Awfully strange story about an awfully strange occurrence or maybe I should say an array of strange occurrences that transpire after an awfully strange object (maybe a meteorite) lands on a village farm...
"Something was creeping and creeping and waiting to be seen and felt and heard.""What is done in common humanity is sometimes cruelly judged by the law."
I've read much horror as a kid, book after book after book of delicious scary stories.
I'm here to talk about my obsession with Lovecraft.For a while now, I've been pondering on the question how Lovecraft's stories manage to penetrate so deeply into the mind.
Stephen King one of my favorite horror authors, knows how to use the power of suggestion.
I don't know if I ought to be resentful or thankful for this feat since I am definitely not easily scared by horror stories.
Aquilo que não foi dito ou explicado aterroriza mais e aí mora a genialidade do autor.Ao final, temos 3 apêndices maravilhosos onde conheceremos um pouco mais sobre H.P.: quais foram suas influências em várias fases da vida e uma espécie de tratado sobre o processo de escrita de histórias fantásticas.
Histórico de leitura30/03/2017"A atmosfera, e não a ação, é o que deve ser cultivado no conto maravilhoso." "A melhor histórica fantástica de todos os tempos é provavelmente "The Willows", de Algernon Blackwood." Nota: 430/03/2017"A oeste de Arkham as colinas se erguem selvagens, e existem vales de raízes profundas que nenhum machado jamais cortou."
The cover art is reason enough to love this book!Lovecraft never wrote much more than shorts, of course, and all of us who make a living in the genre owe something to his great brief mind.
Fortunately, this was the first book of Lovecraft's that I ever read and I was thoroughly introduced to the man's mind from the varied and astounding tales within.Lovecraft's weakness was "character" - and these stories are no exception.
He was the master of the genre and in many ways still is.I cannot recommend this particular book enough, especially if you're just getting to know Howard Phillips and his incredible worlds.
Seven clustered stories including the canonical The Call of Cthulhu. The stories don't do so much for me, but the scenes - the scenes are epic. Viz:"I shall never sleep calmly again when I think of the horrors that lurk ceaselessly behind life in time and in space, and of those unhallowed blasphemies from elder stars which dream beneath the sea, known and favored by a nightmare cult ready and eager to loose them on the world whenever another earthquake shall hear their monstrous stone city again to the sun and air." (70). These aren't horrors you hail.
Another great short story by H.P. Lovecraft! Even though it was still creepy it was nevertheless very different from "Call of Cthulhu", I think in this case the atmosphere was more sad than disturbing. I really like how his stories are both similar and completely different at the same time. Lovecraft himself marked "The Colour Out of Space" as his best work. For me it was not the biggest highlight Ive read by him so far but this is just my personal opinion. 4 of 5 stars overall.
Another great short story by H.P. Lovecraft! Even though it was still creepy it was nevertheless very different from "Call of Cthulhu", I think in this case the atmosphere was more sad than disturbing. I really like how his stories are both similar and completely different at the same time. Lovecraft himself marked "The Colour Out of Space" as his best work. For me it was not the biggest highlight I´ve read by him so far but this is just my personal opinion. 4 of 5 stars overall.
One of H. P. Lovecrafts most brilliant of stories, The Colour of Space, may ultimately be his best. He certainly considered it his best. Influential--the title story has inspired such other tales as Die, Mosters, Die, The Blob and Invasion of the body snatchers. This is the true must read of his entire work.
《來自外太空的顏色》(The Color Out of Space)稱得上是洛克夫萊夫特(H.P Lovecraft)最具代表性和前瞻性的作品，這個短篇故事把和充滿古風的新英格蘭鄉野傳奇和大宇宙的無名恐怖完美結合，實在是一篇出奇地適合核子危機時代、具有強烈現代精神的恐佈小說。這部短篇小說最令人屏息的除了是侵入平凡鄉郊的那個無形無味無嗅、無以名狀的恐怖之物／他者以外，還有洛克夫萊夫特透過故事情節表達出來的徹底生命虛無論；在作者這種「天地不仁，以萬物為芻狗」的視野下，平凡農夫一家被迫承受的焦慮、苦悶和滅絕，其實跟蟲子被壓死一樣不值一提，實在是泠酷但實事求事得叫人頭皮發麻。
To quote Lovecraft himself:“The oldest and strongest emotion of mankind is fear, and the oldest and strongest kind of fear is fear of the unknown”Lovecraft's horrors were never as unknown and scary as in The Colour out of Space.
The Color out of Space: Why didn't they just leave the house?
The colour out of space, H.P.(Howard Phillips) Lovecraftعنوان: رنگی از دنیای ناشناخته؛ نویسنده: هوارد فیلیپس لاوکرافت؛ مترجم: مرضیه خسروی؛ تهران، روزگار نو، 1393، در 128 ص، فروست: داستانهای مدرن کلاسیک؛ شابک: 9786006867175؛ موضوع: داستانهای مدرن کلاسیک
ترس جدیدی رو تجربه خواهید کرد. و البته از تصاویر و تعابیر زیبای نویسنده هم لذت خواهید برد.چیز زیادی نمی خوام بگم، فقط اینکه از دست ندید، کتابی است متفاوت.
Cute little story. Reminded me of little house on the prairie. Eίχε κι ένα ελαφάκι στο πηγάδι. Τι διαβάζετε ρε τρελοκομεία;
I still have mixed feelings about his writing.
I enjoyed some of the stories but most of them had a tone that I didn't find suitable for my taste.
Ha. I did enjoy the writing.
His characters had enough essence to be likeable and I enjoyed following them and (view spoiler)[ see how they meet their end.
xD  (hide spoiler)] There are times when I want to read something different, to see an isolated individual or someone on the verge of insanity.
I do plan to read more of his work and see if I will eventually get used with the style.
El primer relato, El color de fuera del espacio, fue simplemente increíble.
Tiene muy buen ritmo, buena fluidez y un increíble manejo de descripciones que te provocan escalofríos de cuando en cuando.El segundo cuento, La noche del océano, resultó lo contrario.
Quizá se deba a que nunca he sido fan de los textos basados o relacionados al mar, pero realmente fue para mí un texto tedioso, aburrido, sin ninguna chispa.
Las descripciones repetitivas sin aportar nada, el supuesto miedo imperceptible, imposible seguir al protagonista en sus desvaríos nocturnos.Los fragmentos, por último, me dejaron una intriga inigualable.
Tengo que hacerme con ese relato ya.
I'm going to throw out my first five-star rating for Lovecraft. I don't think he ever does better than he does in this short story. While he does tend to slip back into his old ways here and there, the writing that actually opens this story is gorgeous, and I don't think he ever attains the same level of creeping horror in any other story.This story was a standout the first time I read it, and it remains so, as I work my way through this illustrated series.
Sin palabras. Maravilloso y terrorífico.
This was an extremely scary, freaky, and well done story about a family whose land turns against them after a meteor which gives off strange properties and colors falls onto their property.
nothing could bribe me to drink the new city water of Arkham", then echoed near the end: "...
I found myself thinking of this story when the Japanese Fukushima disaster occurred; I'm sure that Lovecraft didn't have anything specifically radiation-related in mind when he wrote this, yet the idea of the radiation leaking out into the entire ocean made me think of those lines.Lovecraft seems to have exercised restraint in this short tale of a mysterious ...
But this story is, I think, Lovecraft at his best and, to me, more haunting than anything else he wrote.
Nos deixa apreensivos do início ao fim e causa um certo desconforto, diante daquilo que nos é exposto, em suas palavras tão bem selecionadas e em suas descrições tão precisas.Será possível alguém demonstrar com precisão através de um filme os acontecimentos descritos nos contos de Lovecraft?
Não é a toa que ele tenha um gênero próprio e seja referência para muitos autores de terror.Imagino que seja melhor deixar a imaginação do leitor criar o visual dessas histórias contadas por Lovecraft.
Por um lado talvez seja bom mesmo não existirem filmes sobre as criaturas de Lovecraft, especialmente as desse conto.
