https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/11318.Trouble_Is_My_Business
Review updated on 29.05.2017This is a collection of four short stories featuring Philip Marlowe, the cynical drinking PI who served a role model for all the PIs written after him - no exceptions.Trouble is my business.
Several dead bodies, corrupt policemen, organized crime bossed and their thugs keep things from getting slowing down.Finger man.
This relatively short story tightly packed with loads and loads of dead bodies.
I read this story several times, and it never failed to make me depressed and sad; it is depressing and sad, even by Raymond Chandler's standards.
It also happened to be very good and memorable.Raymond Chandler wrote a foreword for this collection.
Yes yes yes! Not one, but four stories with Philip Marlowe at the lead. I think Raymond Chandler is superb; his descriptions have me drooling and in my opinion he's the original hard boiled, film noir detective. I love him and every move he makes. He's witty, dry, sarcastic and dangerous. I can picture myself walking the streets at night with him, slugging a bad guy with a gun and swigging scotch in the middle of the night in a stifling hot hotel room whilst hiding from a crook. He's just an awesome character and Chandler makes him.
It moved away from the curb and around the corner with as much noise as a bill makes in a wallet.""They rode me back into the room without seeming to.""He had an idea and he was holding it like a sick baby.""'Lift the dogs,' [move your butt] Beef said, and stood to one side."The iconic line: "'Trouble is my business,' I said.
'How else would I make a nickel?'""I lifted a foot to start walking to a taxi half a block down across the street.""The night air was not pure but it was cool."
Anyone who reads Chandler would be well served to get a copy containing Chandler's own introduction (written around 1950) where he looks back at the pulps - which he refers to in the past tense even though they had about 10 more years left in them fighting for rack space -and discusses the transformation of the genre from the mostly British in style iterations to the fully Americanized versions and why that happened and what was gained.
It's one of those very rare moments where you can see that even though Chandler occasionally lost the pure whodunit thread once or twice in his own work he knew exactly what his style was about and what he was doing within the genre in the moment and not just as a series of insights looking back on it all.
نمره ی واقعی: سه و نیممن داستان باد سرخ رو بیشتر دوست داشتم. بقیه اشم جالب بود اما جاهایی آدم حس می کرد یه ماسمالی هایی هست. در کل خوندنی بودمترجم یه مقدمه هم در مورد فضای گنگستری آمریکا در چند دهه ی اول قرن بیستم و تأثیرش بر شکل گیری رمان کارآگاهی آمریکایی نوشته که هر چند جزئیات زیادی نداره اما خوبه خوندنش. ترجمه هم من باهاش مشکلی نداشتم و یادم نمی آد وقتایی که سراغ اصلش می رفتم اشتباه خاصی به چشمم اومده باشه
Plus much to my surprise, I notice Mr. Chandler's stories and his MC seem to be a bit more...romantic than I would have expected from an author who is so well known for his 'dark and gritty' hard boiled novels!Last but not least, I really like the world of noir Mr. Chandler had created: dangerous men and equally dangerous women, scums and criminals, everyone has their eyes on the money, everyone and their mothers are all pointing a gun at other people (how typically American!) and the tough-guy PI (Marlowe) always.
Four Pulp magazine novellas. Only one, Red Wind, had I read before. My favorite here is Goldfish (though it does contain some bad fish abuse). The introduction, writing about pulp writing, was done by Chandler in 1950.
Of course I love this, it being a collection of four short stories which were later cannibalized for Chandler's novels, but I admit I wanted it to be longer.
Almost nothing outside of Chandler's works makes me imagine scenes in my head so vividly, or to laugh out loud at the sarcasm.
I pretty much was laughing every few minutes while reading this, and I'm writing the review after my second reading.
No other noir can touch Chandler in my opinion, this being just the most perfect example of the genre.
Quintessential noir by one of the creators of the genre. Private eye Phillip Marlowe is the archetype of those that followed. This book is four (rather long) short stories. All excellent.
The state still haunts me, but under Chandler’s influence it’s not an unwelcome possession.Although I feel pretty firmly that Elmore Leonard is the undisputed master of crime fiction and, more narrowly, James Ellroy has cornered the market on a certain adrenalized, bare-knuckle strain of Los Angeles noir, it’s impossible not to see Chandler as the Rosetta Stone of the modern detective story, with Leonard and Ellroy and Rankin and Lehane and Hiaasen all tracing their lineage back to Chandler’s pitch-black tales of Philip Marlowe and the street-smart broads with whom he associates.It’s been a long time since I last read Chandler – probably fifteen years or more since I closed The Long Goodbye – and the first paragraph of the title story in Trouble Is My Business is just like sinking into a warm bath:"Anna Halsey was about two hundred and forty pounds of middle-aged putty-faced woman in a black tailor-made suit.
This book is made up of four of Chandler's novellas or novelettes. They have most of the things I love about Raymond Chandler's novels: hardboiled prose to weep for, enough characters and twists to make your head spin, and nearly indecipherable plots.The fact that I read all the stories and enjoyed them, despite their flaws or even because of them, is a testament to Chandler's legacy as one of the greatest hardboiled crime writers ever.
The opening to his short story "Red Wind," which is found in this collection of four, is iconic in detective fiction:There was a desert wind blowing that night.
Reading these stories reminded me of reading Shakespeare in school, with a wonderful English teacher who could put the language and references in context with the history and culture of the Elizabethan Age. Except I had no teacher explaining the references in Chandler's stories.The other thing I noticed was the amount of drinking and smoking in the stories.
Philip Marlowe, his detective, drinks any time of day or night and seems none the worse for wear despite this habit.
The stories included are:Finger Man, 1934, Black MaskKiller in the Rain, 1935, Black MaskThe Man Who Liked Dogs, 1936, Black MaskGoldfish, 1936, Black MaskThe Curtain, 1936, Black MaskTry the Girl, 1937, Black MaskMandarin’s Jade, 1937, Dime DetectiveRed Wind, 1938, Di9me DetectiveBay City Blues, 1938, Dime DetectiveThe Lady in the Lake, 1939, Dime DetectiveTrouble is my Business, 1939, Dime DetectiveThe Pencil, 1965, ArgosyIf you are trying to find out what all the fuss is about and why Chandler is so highly revered by crime writers everywhere, these stories would be a good place to start.
They represent Chandler at his focused best.
I wanted to continue reading Chandler, might even become a completest!
I think these are some of the earlier stories which Chandler sort of made his name with before he came out with the limpid and inexhaustible "Big Sleep"...they are all Philip Marlowe stories and they sort of have that almost-there quality which you can see in some writer's early work...they have a style, a vision, but it's not quite realized yet.
Forgot to mention that as much as I love Chandler, these stories were more dryly amusing than as engaging as the novels I've read.
I've read a lot of parody of this genre without actually having read much of the genre itself. To tell the truth, I had fun. Things may not really change much for Marlowe in any of the stories, but there is a tangible thrill to reading. I'm not sure I'd go looking for any more, but I did like these stories.
There are enough dry one-liners to keep fans of Chandler's style entertained and I feel that, somehow, these four stories presented together offer a greater level of insight into the character of Marlowe himself, perhaps because he seems more assured here than in the grander plots of longer novels.
When Marlowe (and the reader) isn't lost in some intricate plot triggered by wealthy Los Angelinos but rather down among Marlowe's own world of middlemen, hustlers, and cops, he can exert a greater degree of control and display a more proactive side to his personality.
Trouble is My Business, therefor, makes a pretty good starting point for readers new to Chandler.
Any of the four stories here would make for a pretty great film.
This was due probably more my lack of concentration rather than the story or writing because Chandler's as good as ever.
They all seem to have a stake in trying to manipulate others to do their bidding for money.
And Chandler, bless his heart, wants to do the right thing whether it's giving back to the deserving or contributing to 'the cause' i.e. Salvation Army, Retired Police Officers or other benevolent organizations.
Chandler's Phillip Marlowe is considered the first of the modern P.I. With Marlowe they're no longer low-lifes without a conscience, 'what's in it for me' characters.
The undisputed master of noir and pulp fiction.Of the four stories featured in this volume none are sub standard when compared to the novels featuring Chandler’s LA private eye Philip Marlow, who swims in a cesspool of double crossing criminals, femme fatales and crooked cops. Filled with classic metaphorical phrases straight from the hard boiled crime dictionary that Chandler helped create.If you’re a fan of John D MacDonald, Ross Macdonald, Robert B Parker or Robert Crais, or any other writers who work within this genre, you must read Chandler to at least experience the evolution of pulp fiction.
Trouble is my Business contains 4 Phillip Marlowe stories previously published in the pulp magazines of the day.overall these are a fine example of Chandler's hard boiled fiction in novella form. each story is remarkable on their own but my personal favorite is “Red Wind”. this story is a nearly perfect representation of Marlowe's code of honor, has great characters,and a fantastic little twist at the end. a lot of quality buried in a unassuming little short story.
Great set of four longer stories featuring P.I. Philip Marlowe in all his hard-nosed, whiskey swilling glory. Chandler for me is the ultimate noir voice, the attitude and craft that defines the genre for me. Each story has the same elements - Marlowe played for a sap, double crosses, booze and cigarettes, guns and sucker punches, all wrapped up in a nice bow at the end. Though the elements are familiar, it's the narrative from Marlowe that makes for intoxicating reading.
I adored this collection. It made me realize that I like Chandler's short stories of Marlowe better than the novels. And not, I think I may like his short stories better than Hammett's. But who needs to decide a favorite between such wonderful things?
Hard-boiledPhillip Marlowe on the case. What can be better? Chandler brings his genius with the language once more into his genre. These short stories will not let you down.
This is really a set of four Philip Marlowe "long stories." Absolutely incredible. I wish there were a couple dozen more.
Lamentably, I only got the title story, not the whole collection. It was good, though! In a really-good-pulp-fiction sort of way.UPDATE: I went looking for the rest of the stories online, and discovered that there are a number of different Chandler collections called "Trouble is My Business." I read all of one and bits of others on my phone. They were good, in a really-good-pulp-fiction sort of way.
Descriptions like "...one of those mustaches that get stuck under your fingernail," (12) "Dead as a pickled walnut," (144) and "...a mixed quartet tore what was left of the night into small strips and did what they could to make the strips miserable," (194) pepper the stories liberally.
I'd still encourage you to read at least one of his stories - especially if you're a mystery buff or a fan of works set in the WWII era -because he defines a genre and sometimes works like that are famous for a reason.
If you like mysteries but have a tough time with bloodshed Chandler's stories might be just what you're looking for.
It's really a treat to drink from THE source of classic detective pulp fiction.
I haven't read Dashiel Hammett, but if he's as essential as Chandler claims in his forward, their work must be the pinnacle of the genre.
I took a circuitous route to Chandler starting with several of John Schwartzwelder's spoofs of the genre, and from there went to Jonathan Lethem's Gun, With Occasional Music and and an anonymous pulp tome.
Beyond the written word, I had also seen many classic film noir pictures and listened to a lot of radio plays where Humphrey Bogart plays both Chandler's Philip Marlowe and Hammett's Sam Spade characters.
"There was a desert wind blowing that night. It was one of those hot dry Santa Anas that come down through the mountain passes and curl your hair and make your nerves jump and your skin itch. On nights like that every booze party ends in a fight. Meek little wives feel the edge of the carving knife and study their husbands’ necks. Anything can happen. You can even get a full glass of beer at a cocktail lounge."And THAT is Chandler.
5 stars!Philip Marlowe, how so awesome? A solid collection of hardboiled mysteries. My individual ratings for the stories -Trouble is My Business - 4 starsFinger Man - 4 starsGoldfish - 4.5 starsRed Wind - 5 starsIntroduction by Philip Marlowe - all the stars in the world because it is that good.Highly recommended!
Had read Chandler in translations, but I see now they were very deficient. Marlowe's contemplative sarcasm and not-give-a-fuck-ness were lost. And that style is extremely important--is what makes these quintessentially noir stories not only genre-founding, but very fun to read. An extremely rare combination.
Although not a lover of short stories I found these a must read as is anything by chandler. Private eyes , femme fatales, booze, guns, murder, mayhem,torture,fist fights, car chases,snappy dialogue . Can't beat it just read it ! Great hard boiled dirty noir from the best in the business .
