https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18343.The_Four_Chambered_Heart
I quote from the novel:''Their first kiss was witnessed by Seine River carrying gondola of street lamps' reflections in its spangled folds, carrying haloed street lamps flowering on bushes of black lacquered cobblestones, carrying silver filigree trees opened like fans beyond whose rim the river's eyes provoked them to hidden coquetries, carrying the humid scarfs of fog and the sharp incense of roasted chestnuts nuts.Everything fallen into the river and carried away except the balcony on which they stood.''Very often one sees beautiful images, inner feelings described in a silky manner.
I liked this book because it analyzes the relationship between lovers from its highest point to it's downfall. Obviously, in doing this it also analyzes the individuals and we see exactly how the main characers became such pathetic failures. The story and the writing is mediocre. It was the dissection of people and relationships I found worth while.
They never add up the accumulated bruises and scars of the inner lining, forming a complete universe of reactions, a reflected world through which no event could take place without being subjected to a personal private interpretation, through this kaleidoscope of memory, through the peculiar formation of the psyche's sensitive photographic plates, to this assemblage of emotional chemicals through which every word, every event, every experience is filtered, digested, deformed, before it is projected again upon people and relationships."yes yes yes.
pure magic.
An interesting read into the insights of human nature and emotion, continuing the story of Djuna we take up with her as she becomes involved with Rango a seemingly simple straightforward guy whose personality is affected by how he sees the world, and later his wife Zora 'professional' victim and attention seeker whose manipulative personality is repulsive.
I love the way Nin writes about the foibles of human nature.
Reading this is a litle like peeling back the layers of a bulb with each layer a little more is revealed to us until we are left with nothing but an emotional void, a revelation, these are people we all know!Not an erotic read, highly intuitive literary read into the working of the human personality.
It is filled with a thousand sighs of long lost birds of paradise shadowed in the ancient lovers now long forgotten in the waters of the Seine!I just made that up besides the "island of joy," but yeah, it can be silly like that at the very beginning, but doesn't stay silly.I can't help but read the barge captain's dialog in pirate:"I was the captain of a pleasure yacht once.
The yacht blew up and I lost my leg."LOL.
Much of the book is Djuna explaining away Rango's behavior (Which makes some sense, and is explained, but just drags on a bit too much, pretty much to the extreme.) I don't know that Djuna ever gets a fair shake in any given novel: Sabina does before all is said and done, as does Lillian, which is probably makes Djuna's stories so irksome; she always ends in her stories sort of "floating" in an Alfred Hitchcock ending sort of way.
The story isn't bad, but the lack of any culmination in the novels, whatsoever, other than a chance being "hinted at", has never really worked for me.
Another part to Nin's larger Cities of the Interior collection.
We meet Djuna again in Paris, this time with her lover, Rango.
However, in typical Nin fashion, Rango is already married to the questionably mad Zora, and the proverbial crap hits the proverbial fan when Zora discovers this affair.I like the way Nin creates a fiction surrounding her life, the way the words flow just so off the page.
She was by far no literary genius, but an important contribution to literature nonetheless.Now that I've read the second and third books in Cities of the Interior, I have to get around to reading the first, fourth and fifth.
This one centers closely on the triad of Rango, Djuna, and Zora, which made it the most readable of the continuous novels so far.
All three are insane and terrible in some way, and it is all described in smooth, beautiful, but never flashy poetic prose.
Themes: self-destruction through lack of self-awareness and putting other people's needs before your own, duality and balance, being who you are by being all your previous selves, different people fulfilling different needs/harmonizing with different elements of yourself.
Probably if you liked Joanne Harris's novel Chocolat, you should read this one, but steel yourself for lots of hella racist descriptions of Rango, Guatemala, and native people there.
This was my introduction to Anais Nin, and if first impressions mean anything, I like her.
The book is not a novel in any real sense, but an exploration of a relationship from lust to dust.
Ms. Nin writes with an emotional honesty that is both frightening and refreshing.
This book should resonate with anyone who has loved: desire, compromise, hurt, it's all here, and stated very eloquently.
I have always enjoyed Japanese love poems and this book shares much with that genre in both content and style.
I look forward to renewing my acquaintance Anais Nin in the near future.
An excellent narrative looking at a three pronged pronged relationship...love and the complexities therein.I had read a collection of short stories by Anais Nin in the past but that ill prepared me for this book which although very short is thoughtful and explores desire and how holding on can sometimes hasten it's demise.
When I initially read this, I'd mucked up the phases of Nin's life, and thought at first that this was the fictionalized version of her time with Henry Miller and his wife June. Turns out, it's not, but Nin seems to have had a bit of a propensity for destructive triangular relationships.
Magistralmente escrita, es la típica historia de amor en una relación tóxica de 3 personas. Digna de ser representada en un culebrón mexicano o hindú. Sin embargo, esas relaciones destructivas son interesantes de leer, sobretodo si se aplica los principios de la Psicología moderna, pero no está dentro de mis gustos de mi relación amorosa ideal.
I got a bit confused with some of the extended metaphors, but I was thoroughly intrigued by the manipulative villainy of Zora, and the complexities of the relationship between the three protagonists.
Like the first two books, it is entirely about analyzing relationships and feelings, with not much in the way of actual plot; in fact, the novel's external story contradicts itself -- at times, Djuna is the orphan of the second book whose personality was formed by being abandoned by her violent father and losing her mother in early childhood; at other times she is living with and taking care of her kindly old father (no explanation) -- although he isn't actually shown, just referred to in passing.
I thought it was rather badly written, especially at the beginning, she did simple things that really annoy me such as repeating words or rephrasing herself dozens of time to say the same thing in a way that was supposed to be poetic but became meaningless. However I still enjoyed this (short) book,there are some moments that have real emotional wisdom and there are some utterly fantastic quotes!
earlier:apparently this is only part of a continuous novel? guess i shouldve read the back. another of my $50 spend at The Strand.july 09 - ...doesn't matter. (not erotica.) great look at a kind but adventurous french woman's emotional inner life in a tangled relationship with a "feckless" faux-Gypsy - Rango in their barge on the Seine. subtle.recommend!
A very complex yet interesting story among Rango, Djuna and Zora with such strong elements of love, lust, ambition, dreams, competition plots. This is my first experience reading Anais Nin's publication. Surely she has many great skills to explore more.
I enjoyed this, she has some really interesting ideas. I definately prefer her short stories, as i could have done with a bit more plot in this novel, which felt a bit slow at times, and i don't get that in the shorter pieces. Still good though.
Another excellent novel by Anais Nin showing the strong emotions of a woman toward her vulnerable lover (who is the one depicted as strong). Quick to read, comforting, interesting and quotable.
http://onlyorangery.blogspot.com/2011...
this is as close to "chick read" as i would get. Ain't the same anymore.
love (first 10 and last 50 pages) / hate (everything else)
For some reason, I'm forever more partial to "Ladders to Fire," but I love Nin and this work was no exception.
This book is beautiful. It is wine and chocolate, figs and amaro indulgent, complex, perfect. So far...
Four Chambered Heart: V3 In Nin'S Continuous Novel by Anais Nin (1959)
Nin writes beautifully. Her prose are poetic and her characters interesting and complicated. There was just a little too much melodrama for my taste.
"Sensual" is the best word to describe this book. Nin has a habit of using evocative language, almost over the top, but I like it.
En realidad no lo terminé. Tiene una prosa demasiado empalagosa, aunque reconozco que es un buen libro... pero no es adecuado para mi.
a good read but really not my taste.
Bit too poetical/sensual for my taste, but enjoyed it more than I expected to.
