https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/28351.And_to_Think_That_I_Saw_It_on_Mulberry_Street
Here, started it everything!  A DATE AT MULBERRY STREET FOR IMMORTALITY  That can’t be my story. That’s only a start.  I’ll say that a ZEBRA was pulling that cart. This is the very first story by Dr. Seuss, here, started it all.And since this beginning, you can appreciate the distinctive style of Dr. Seuss.A kid is walking to his home, and he’s thinking what “event” will talk about with his dad that he “saw” in Mulberry Street (the route to his home). And obviously, never is too good, never is
Here, started it everything!
A DATE AT MULBERRY STREET FOR IMMORTALITY
That can’t be my story.
That’s only a start.
This is the very first story by Dr. Seuss, here, started it all.And since this beginning, you can appreciate the distinctive style of Dr. Seuss.A kid is walking to his home, and he’s thinking what “event” will talk about with his dad that he “saw” in Mulberry Street (the route to his home).
Reading this in my kid voice, I rediscovered the joys of fabricating the reality as a child. The way a child sees the world and interlaces with it his dreamy imaginations.As an adult, you know the difference between reality and fantasy but as a child it is all one fabric.Gives you an idea how we all used to blow up the realities when reciting a true event.I couldn't fully explain,Things were not so plain.How one thing led to another.How the giraffe became my friend's brother.
How a plain horse and wagon on Mulberry StreetGrows into a story that no one can beatI love that ending part of the story and I've just learnt that this is the very first children's book of Dr. Seuss. We know that children have a creative imagination and I guess that this book set as a reminder also for adults, such as parents and teachers, to let kids enhance that skill.
We got this from the library for 3 year old Rae. She loved it. She asked if all children have their imaginations strangled by adults like the kid in this book.
Such a cute story about a wild imagination.
Marvin spins a wonderful tale for his dad when he gets home from school turning minnows into whales. I remember the pictures from when I was a kid and now can appreciate the way the story encourages imagination – even if the dad is kind of a wet blanket at the end.
A very short and very sweet children's book. A beautiful tale about one boy's (vivid) imagination. This is my first Dr. Seuss and I'll read more of his creations, I have much respect for children's authors, while it might seem easy to write children's books, I'm sure it's more difficult than it looks. This is simply lovely....I had a smile plastered on my face all the way trough.
What a fantastic story about a child allowed to run free with his imagination. The very first Dr. Seuss book definitely tells you of the things to come.
I read this book to my students and they really enjoyed it! I had never even heard of this Dr. Seuss book before."A plain horse and wagon on Mulberry Street grows into a story that no one can beat! In this tale, Young Marco allows his imagination to run riot as he travels home from school one day, to the extent that a horse and cart is soon transformed into a chaotic carnival of colourful creatures in his own mind."
It was, indeed, rejected 27 times before Seuss had a chance encounter with an friend-turned-editor whom he bumped into while walking in New York City one day (see, awesome things do happen on average streets every day!) The editor took a chance on the young author/illustrator and the rest, as they say, is history.I don't remember reading it as a kid, whether because I was not exposed to it or it simply wasn't that memorable to me I don't know.
Coming to it now, as an adult, I wasn't wowed though I certainly appreciate the importance of this work, Seuss's creativity and the innovation at the time.
This vibrant imagination, however, tends to annoy his father who wants him to observe what he really sees on his journey to school and back.
Instead of telling his father what he has dreamed up, Marco instead tells the boring old truth.I don't know how much you're supposed to analyse children's stories but what let this tale down for me was the father's overbearing role ("stop telling such outlandish tales" he says at the beginning).
I don't know if this message would really discourage children, but I don't get why the father had to be so annoyed with his son's lively imagination.
In this story a young boy walking home from school, and on seeing a simple horse and cart, embellishes it in his mind by first changing the animal, then the conveyance, then adds passengers, and so on, until the horse and cart are transformed into a veritable parade.
Young children do know the difference between truth and fiction, so the conflict between the boy and his father is troubling.
Either the character in the book is actually given to deception, or his father is suppressive of his imagination.
بكل ما تحمله الكلمة انه عبقريانا بحب الراجل دا بجدبحب كلامهورسوماتهقصة جديدة من عبقريعن اب طلب من ابنه وهو راجع من المدرسةف شارع التوت يركز مع كل حاجه حواليهويجي يحكي ليه حصل ايه:)ف الولد بيشوف عربية بيجرها حماروبيبتدي يحس ان مفيش حاجه تتحكي ف يبتدي يتخيل مكان الحمار فيل ورينديروفرق موسيقة والمحافظو ..و.. وبيرجع البيت وهو حاسس انه هيحكي حكاية مالهاش زيف ابوه بيسئلهف هو بيخاف وميبقاش عارف يحكي ايه؟:))الخطوط والرسوم ساحرة ك عادته الكلام سهل ممتنعرائع
This children story handles one of the most children psychological issue it is : confidence and how parents can switch it on or off.how come that it is for both children and adults ? PDF link for the Goodreaders :http://www60.zippyshare.com/v/1397265...
This story explains everything about how we transcend the ordinary in our day-to-day living, letting our imagination take us to a world of wish fulfillment.
How we transform the dreariness of a Mulberry street of life where "nothing ever happens" into an exciting world full of indian rajahs and chinese chopsticks, a confetti throwing airplane and a trailer pulled by an elephant!And the most cruel part of the story is also what makes it so real...
Marco's telling his father with a red face that it was only a plain wagon that he saw on mulberry street.
Aah, the heartbreaking difference between what might have been and what is!!
The usually flawless rhythm is occasionally spotty, and there's not the same level of giddy inventiveness present in so many of his other books.
At the same time, this book was written before Seuss had moved into using purely anapestic tetrameter, which makes for some interesting variety of sound.
While in some of his later works he would begin to break from the anapestic tetrameter model in very methodical and deliberate ways, here the variety of rhythm feels as if it is occuring somewhat more naturally, not a craftsman experimenting with form so much as a storyteller making loose usage of form.
On a walk home from school Marco sees a horse and cart in Mulberry Street.
Wanting to tell his Dad something exciting, he imagines what it could turn out to be.His imagination runs riot and from a simple horse and cart, it metarmorphoses into a cart pulled by a zebra, then a chariot pulled by a zebra before we have a reindeer pulling a sledge, an elephant pulling a brass band and other incarnations before Sergeant Mulvaney escorts the whole shebang down Mulberry Street.Obviously it all happens on Mulberry Street ...
but what will Marco tell his Dad when he gets home????
I really enjoyed this book - it's the very first children's book Dr. Seuss published - and it does make one think! I'd recommend it to all my story-telling friends because it reminds me of how I'm always changing my story to try to make it better.It also made me sad because it shows about how imagination is often discouraged.
An amazing book with so many life lessons. Dr. Seuss is just awesome with his writings & we must get our kids, read his books.
Chinamen who eat with sticks just can't be beat as they're marching and singing down Mulberry Street.
Such an imagination! Maybe I'd have liked it better if I had myself a little bit more of it, lol!
It's a story about a boy who uses his imagination on his way home. though it's sad he couldn't tell the tale to his father.
I used to live on Mulberry street Memories form back than
Apparently, that giraffe had to do with this book so my son wanted me to read the book to him.Normally, right here I would give a synopsis of the book but there is a more pressing issue I have to get into.
I had just read the word "chinaman" to my son.
I quickly showed him the man with a long beard in the middle of the page praying he had not looked at the picture on the left-hand side.Suess had agreed to change the wording to "Chinese man" and the drawing was changed to be less stereotypical.
I love this book about imagination!
Dr. Seuss was so clever.
There's nothing wrong with being real because there are problems that we need to solve in the world, but like I love to ride my bike and watch as the trees pass by and imagine I am in some magical land (like Narnia) and pretend that I'm not ME.
I love to daydream though.
I'm always day dreaming.
If I spent as much time studying and doing HW as I do day dreaming then I would definitely be Valedictorian.
I loved it.
SEUSS: You totally should.
Unlike so many of Dr. Suess’ books, this story has not withstood the test of time, marred by racist and sexist references which have become more blatant as American society has evolved since the book was first published in 1937; yet the inimitable Seussian illustrations still captivate—and explicate—the imagination.
My sister sent me an article with a story about this book. It was rejected 27 times before someone finally published it. Dr. Seuss was about ready to give up being a writer. Just think of all that we would have missed if he had not continued to write. I had never had read this particular book so felt it was about time. What a delight!
A funny book about imagination running amok vs reality of every day. There is beauty in both.
I love Dr. Suess. You're never too old for Dr. Suess.
This was such an amazing tale. It reminded me of the way my friend tells me stories,making even the simplest thing into something magical and unique.
