https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/73806.Escape_From_Warsaw
All these years later I had vague memories of what the story was about, but very vivid memories of having loved it.
Some childhood books do and some don’t.The Silver Sword is the story of Polish siblings Ruth, Edek and Bronia.
We hear a little bit about the father who manages to escape a couple years later and make his way back to Warsaw.
That said, it in no way diminishes my memories of what I loved about the book 30-odd years ago.
Joseph spends 4½ weeks walking back to Warsaw, but when he arrives he discovers that his house has been destroyed, his wife has been arrested and sent to a work camp in Germany, and his children have survived but are no where to be found.At the ruins of his home, Joseph finds a silver letter opener in the shape of a small sword.
Before he leaves, he gives the silver sword/letter opener to Jan and asks him to tell his children, should he run into them, that their father has gone to their grandparents in Switzerland to find their mother, and to follow him there.
The Silver Sword is an epic tale of a family who were separated when the Nazi’s invaded Poland in 1940. The story centres on the Balicki family, who consisted of the mother Margrit, the father Joseph and their 3 young children; Ruth, Bronia and Edek. With their father taken to a prison camp and their mother captured as a slave, the three children were left to fend for them self in a country ravaged by the Nazis. The name of the book, ‘The Silver Sword’ is significant, as this sword belonged to J
The story centres on the Balicki family, who consisted of the mother Margrit, the father Joseph and their 3 young children; Ruth, Bronia and Edek.
The name of the book, ‘The Silver Sword’ is significant, as this sword belonged to Joseph, the father of the Balicki children and throughout the book it is a constant beacon of hope in a story so heart wrenching.
Upon escaping from the prison camp, Joseph meets a ragged young boy called Jan and gives Jan the sword instructing him that if he ever encounters his children to send them towards the safety of their grandparents home in Switzerland.
Escape from Warsaw by Ian Serraillier, originally titled The Silver Sword, is the adventure story of a family which was separated during the war.
Their father protests Nazi Germany’s tyranny and is taken to a prison camp which he later escapes from.
Their mother is taken away to work for the Nazis.
This leaves Ruth, Edek, and little Bronia alone, trying to survive in a hostile land.Though based on true events, the characters were made up for the purposes of this story.
Truth is sometimes stranger than fiction.Jan was my favorite character.
He was such a funny little guy.
His pets were funny, too.
Based on a true story, this novel is the story of four children travelling through war-ravaged Europe during World War Two. I first read this novel while I was in secondary school and I recently found it again in a box of old books when I was cleaning out my attic.
I remembered loving it back when I was 13 but I didn't remember much of the plot so I decided to re-read the novel.The characters are all well developed from the children themselves to the various characters they meet on their journey.
Definitely a classic. A fast moving and personal account of Polish children searching for their parents who had been taken from them in World War II. In my opinion it's a more engaging read than I Am David.
Readers of Morris Gleitzman's books Once and Then will find some similarities in the narrative, and are perhaps the best examples of a similar reading level.I warmed to the Balicki family very quickly, and followed their journey with bated breath.
His story isn't as shocking as other war fiction I've read, which does mean that the more interesting side of the history is often glossed over.
It's perfectly understandable, as this is a book for younger readers, who shouldn't be well-versed in the true horrors of war until they can handle it.Published just eleven years after the end of the war, The Silver Sword was ahead of its time, and was used for both educational and recreational purposes.
But aside from my fond memories, it is simply a wonderful story and just as good the second time around.
A story of the every-day heroism of people trying to piece their lives back together in the middle of devastation, this author perfectly captured one of the strengths of humanity, the ability to keep on going, to retain love, humor and strength in the midst of defeat.
Better in many ways, then the perfectly happy ending, I loved that the author still left the reader with some hard things to digest and dealt honestly with his characters.
I absolutly loved this book.
I loved how these three children and a friend make thier way to Switzerland from Warsaw just to get back to their family, but also keep in mind that there is also a war raging on.
This is in a way kind of like the european version of the underground railroad if you think real hard about it.I recommend this book to anyone who likes a good action packed, edge-of-the-seat read, and about bravery, courage, trust, and always reaching your goal in life no matter the hardships.
I read this book under its English title, 'The Silver Sword', but couldn't find this on Goodreads so had to review under the US title.The story begins with the escape of Polish headteacher Joseph Balicki from a Nazi prison camp in the early 1940s, at the height of the Second World War. After a year unfairly imprisoned for refusing to display a picture of Hitler in his school, he has managed to escape.
It is one of the most powerful books I have ever read, and as a child it sparked my interest in finding out more about the Second World War. The subject matter is serious and the setting realistic, but it is presented in a way appropriate for children.
I recently read the book 'The Silver Sword' by Ian Serraillier, through school.
) Because I ended up really enjoying travelling the journey of the war stricken world with Jan and the Balakis.
I felt a sense of understanding for these young soals travelling the journey to Switzerland unaccompanied by family bar themselves.
Also understanding that if one goes down the other nor lives to see the world the same again.The main Story line is a family tragically gets split up and the children escape on the rooftops of Warsaw.
I would rate this book 4/5 stars because I enjoyed learning from a new angle how hard and difficult life was for refugees.
The story of a Polish family, broken apart in WWII.
While there, he doesn't find his family but does find a young boy, who takes a Silver Sword (really a letter opener) as a token to prove who he is should he find the other children.
They find the boy with the sword and make their way to Switzerland also, among many adventures.The perspective of the Polish family shows much of the war, from Nazi invasion to Russian liberation.
Descriptions accurately depict the damage of battle, including before and after in Warsaw.
I adored this book as a child and I still adore it now.
Great characterisation and storytelling meant that it was a book I could not put down and also one I would re-read over and over again.
For a book set in such a difficult context (WW2) I strangely found it a comforting read and would often turn to it when feeling fed up or poorly.
I would recommend it for Upper Key Stage 2 children although I have also used it with Y4.
It fits well within a WW2 topic, giving a human dimension that really connects with children.
I first discovered this book, under a different title (Escape From Warsaw in fourth grade, and have loved it ever since.
Re-reading it as an adult hasn't diminished that love.
Ruth, Bronia, Edek and Jan make their way through a destroyed post World War II Europe from Poland to Switzerland, in search of their lost father and mother.
Along the way, they are helped by soldiers and civilians from all sides of the conflict - a Russian, a British officer, a German farmer, and an American soldier and son of Polish immigrants.
This was a great book.
I love learning as much as I can about war and the hardships people went through during war.
Joseph Baliki has three kids Ruth, Edek and Bronia.
Joseph is a school master before the war but is taken away from his school and family.
A few days later the Nazi's come back for Mrs. Baliki.
The children have to escape before the Nazi's come back for them.
I wish there was a movie to go along with the book.
It could be a nice movie if done right.
I loved the images the book painted about the war.
Read this while at school in high school. My class had a lot of students whose parents had emigrated to Australia after the war and I believe that the school put this on the reading list to foster understanding and tolerance. Quite a few students were also struggling with the new language and although this was written for younger students in mind I think it was a good choice at the time. I wonder how it would stand up to a re-read, remember liking it and looking forward to the discussions about it in class but not the details now.
I really liked this tale which is surprising since not everyone reds these kind o books these days. It has a gripping tale and characters that shine in their own ways. It features hardships, courage and determination in the souls of children as their desperate longing for their parents and their solo willpower help them journey to Switzerland. I recommend this very much.
When I was younger I went through a World War 2 stage and read any children's book about the era that I could. "Escape From Warsaw" was undoubtedly my FAVORITE. I read it, and then read it to my siblings and then read it to myself again (and I am not one to re-read a book).Another book I would suggest is "When the Sirens Wailed" by Noel Streatfeild
I never read this book as a child. It's a great story, a mix of adventure, history, the rudeness and the amazing serendipity of life and the beautiful people you meet along the way. The portrayal of the family bond was comforting.
This is one of those books that I read as a child, maybe 9 years old, and loved enough to have remembered it ever since. So 5 stars!
The Silver Sword is a story featuring the Balicki family that's based on true events during the Nazi occupation of Poland in 1940 during WW2.
The family become separated when the father is taken to a prison camp for refusing to put up a portrait of Hitler in the school classroom that he works in, and the mother is taken by the Gestapo in the middle of the night.
The first half of the story focuses on the father's escape from prison after serving a year and his desperation to try and find his family back in Warsaw, and then the rest of the book reverts back to the children's survival story immediately after their mother is taken away.
In a final coincidence (yet presented in a fashion more believable than some of the others), the family is reunited on the Swiss border, and a happy ending is constructed for all.I did find it interesting that the author didn't quite stop with the joyful reunion of the family, but includes a wrapping-up chapter that gives them a new home, and describes the challenges each of the four children faced in recovering from the war and re-entering a more normal life.
A brilliant novel depicting the challenges and triumphs of a family of children as they travel through war torn Poland to reach Switzerland. The details provided in this book are both accurate and astonishing. Written from the perspective of the children, younger audiences will be able to identify with them to a degree, further enhancing their understanding of the extreme circumstances that these children found themselves in. Would highly recommend.
3.5 stars. Mum bought this for me from a secondhand bookshop on a road trip when I was in primary school, and I loved it (I think I also got gastro on that trip and it was a good distraction from the puking!). I found it again when moving house and figured I’d give it a reread as an adult. A bit simplistic and optimistic from an adult’s point of view, but still a wonderful story and engaging plot.
Based on a true story, this is the riveting tale of 3 children in search of their parents, whom were taken away by Nazi Storm Troopers during WW2.
A simple story but I wasn't gripped
THE SILVER SWORD (US title: Escape From Warsaw). (1956; this ed. 2012). Ian Serrailler. ****. This is a classic YA novel, primarily in England, although it has been published in the U.S. under a different title. Ian Serrailler (1912-1984) was a school teacher and published several books for children and collections of poetry. This edition was from The Folio Society and contains an introduction by Anne Fine, an afterword by Jane Serraillier, and illustrations by Raul Allen. It is a simple story o
THE SILVER SWORD (US title: Escape From Warsaw).
Ian Serrailler (1912-1984) was a school teacher and published several books for children and collections of poetry.
They manage to hook up with another young boy, Jan, who has also become displaced and doesn’t know where his family is.
The father after searching Warsaw cannot find the children after their house was destroyed, but he does let them know – through Jan – that he will ultimately be in Switzerland and will meet them there when the war is over.
As long as the children have the sword, they will manage to escape Poland and arrive in Switzerland safely.
It was on the shelves of every library I visited (and I visited a lot of libraries when I was young) and, because its author's surname began with 'S' like Malcolm Saville, a favourite of mine, I'd always see it there, pull it out, read the blurb again and, always, decide, 'No, I don't think I will read this.' I think what threw me was the disconnect between the title, which suggested magical realms and dragons and all sorts of things I loved reading about, and the blurb, which said it was about a group of children making their way through war-ravaged Europe.
I added this apparently well-beloved children's classic to my to-read list because it was recommended by one of my internet friends, Amy. I had never heard of it before, but according to the cover this is the 50th Golden Anniversary Edition that I read--it is a classic...
I know I definitely would have enjoyed it as a child--I seem to remember reading quite a few J-Fic holocaust stories when I was younger, and this book seemed to go along the same sort of lines--though more of an adventure story and one from the perspective of the children of one of the countries invaded by Germany, rather than the more commonly written Jewish people of Germany itself.I enjoyed it well enough; I certainly wasn't bored, and I read it fairly quickly.
This book though manages, for me anyway, to do both.I first read The Silver Sword when I was 12 and remember being gripped by the story.
But it has sadly sat on his book shelf unread for a number of years.In an attempt to read only books currently in the house I nabbed this off his shelf to read over the weekend having just finished the frankly woeful Catch 22.
They were one of the elements of the book I remember the most.Overall a most satisfying weekend read.
