https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/175319.Methuselah_s_Children
This is classic, well written science fiction.Scaled down, lean and aggressive, bereft of the heavy, introspective reticence that weighed down Time Enough for Love, this is simply a good SF adventure with Heinlein's signature technical attention to detail. The origin of Lazarus Long and the adventure referenced in Time Enough For Love, including Andy Libby and the beginning of interstellar exploration. A must read for Heinlein fans.
Been slowly revisiting Heinlein lately, for the first time since I was a teen. This one confirms how I generally feel about his early period "adult" writings - that they are actually more like juvenile fantasies, while his "juvenile" works are often better at communicating adult themes.Full RTC, or perhaps I will just write a blog piece on early Heinlein at some point.
Robert A. Heinlein's Future History is a collection of short stories, novellas and novels. Quoted as "One of the Greatest Achievements in The History of Science Fiction"...uh, NOT! I found the short stories to be wooden, clunky, and anticlimactic. However, this novel Methuselah's Children was just simple fun...and I enjoyed the hard boiled, get-er-done, kilt cladden main character of Lazarus Long. However, I won't be reading the other Future Hstory stories as my life is getting shorter and my TR pile higher. My favourite Heinlein master works are still The Moon Is a Harsh Mistress and Starship Troopers.
This is an important book if you're in to the Heinlein universe.
It is the first good introduction to Lazarus Long who is the central character in many of Heinlein's later books.
Unlike his later books, this one is a short, fun read.
There are some interesting looks at aliens & human nature along the way.This book has been included in a couple of his collections as it is really a novella, although it has also been issued as a stand alone novel.
I'm not sure if the novella versions are edited down as I've never read any.

Although the natural advances of science had provided for a longer life for the average person, there existed within the population a relatively small group of people – mostly from one family tree – who lived exceptionally long lives.
Mr. Average Joe soon lost his patience, and planned to round up all of these people and put them in prison – using torture or drugs to make them talk – in order to find out their secret.
Soon, the bunnies decided that they could improve on the earthmen; they modified organs and added a few where they saw a need.
Originally posted at FanLit.Methuselah’s Children introduces us to Lazarus Long, a popular character in several of Robert A.
Lazarus, who wears a kilt (but there’s guns strapped to his thighs!) and can’t remember how old he is, is descended from one of several families who, long ago, were bred for their health and longevity.
So some of the family members are experimenting with a new plan; they’re outing themselves — telling their friends and neighbors about their longevity and hoping for a good response.Unfortunately, this has backfired.
I don't know what was added or changed, but it can't have been that much, because it's still a very short novel, despite there being enough plot to fill a 1,000-page epic.The story involves a group of "families" who enjoy incredibly long life thanks to selective breeding.
The fact that they find more than one habitable planet and make contact with more than one alien race is why I said there's enough plot to fill a book much, much longer than this one.As it is, it's an enjoyable read, but the descriptions feel sketchy at times, and Heinlein employs more than one deus ex machina to move his characters around.Your enjoyment of this book will probably depend on your enjoyment of Heinlein's wacky ideas.
I'm not totally sold on his worldview, but I enjoy reading about it.
I read the Signet paperback (with the inappropriate Gene Szafran cover) of this one many years ago and have just revisited it via my excellent local library's audio selection.
I was surprised to have remembered it quite well; Lazarus and Andy and Mary were all quite well and waiting for me, just as fresh and thought-provoking as I remembered and not at all as distressing as I'd feared from my last memories of Time Enough For Love.
If there is such a thing as an overlooked classic by Heinlein, I suspect that this is it.
It's also a cornerstone of his future history series.
I just loved this book silly.
Two of my favorite characters, Lazarus and Libby are front and foremost in this story, and it provides a lot of color and background for the Howard families.
I read this story after others that are chronologically prior in the Future History, and it works either way.
This would be a great starter book for new Heinlein exploration.2015: I finally got around to reading this one with the kids.
enough that I'm going to try Time Enough for Love with them even though I had previously planned to wait until they were much older.
Just re-read this one after a long time and was amazed at how well the writing, world building, plot and characters stood up to the test of time. While many things have dated quite badly based on the the time in which they were written, Heinlains vision of humanity is still as cynical and interesting as when I first read it.Also never quite realised how many of the early Heinlein books were meant to be part of a continual storyline, though of course I got the connection of Lazarus Long here and in future books.
The main character, Lazarus Long, is the oldest of them all, having lived some 375 or so years.
This collection, from the first story (1939) through "Methuselah's Children," is in a gargantuan tome titled "The Past through Tomorrow." I just read the first story in it, and I'm hooked!
The time line for the stories is given in a chart towards the front of "Methuselah's Children," and goes from about 1940 through the 3000's.
Chronicles the further adventures of Lazarus (living ) Long.Gonna dig that one out of the musty books after I finish "The Past Through Tomorrow." Cool.
There’s a group amongst society called The Howard Families who as far back as the Victorian times were embarking on experiments to prolong life and now they routinely live hundreds of years.
The fact of their existence causes those of us condemned to a normal lifespan violent resentment, and The Howard Families are forced to flee to the stars to find a new perfect home.I actually thought the second less cluttered half was better than the first, but it’s the opening of the book which is the more thought provoking.
But this book seemed a bit of a mess – lurching between a hyper-intelligent and immortal sub-group of seemingly normal humans (almost all Heinlein’s books involve a secret group of super-men destined to become a new species of human, gradually finding each other and then scoffing together at the inferiority of the rest of humanity – it appeals to one’s sense of superiority, but is just soooo elitist), global persecution of said race, sudden interstellar travel whose methods are not satisfactorily explained, meetings with new worlds and cultures, then a just as sudden return home.
Some good concepts (especially one where they meet a race of domestic animal aliens thinking they are the master-race – and are in for a shock) but I can’t escape the conclusion that Heinlein can be hit and miss, with this being a miss.
Partindo da hipótese que existiria uma "família" de seres humanos que possuem características genéticas que lhes permitem atingir idades invulgarmente avançadas, mantendo no entanto a frescura da juventude ao longo de vários séculos de existência, o autor constrói uma história que nos permite vislumbrar o futuro da raça humana, incluindo a sua expansão para outros mundos, o encontro com outras espécies de vida inteligente e as implicações e conhecimentos que daí poderiam advir.
Em paralelo, o autor explora as características mais determinantes dos seres humanos, da sua natureza individualista e as vantagens e problemas de tal natureza que é intrínseca à nossa espécie.
Heinlein details the exodus from Earth of the Howard Families, long-lived individuals who suddenly find themselves persecuted for not revealing their non-existent secret of longevity. Lazarus Long gets a lot of action here as the Howard Families hijack the the starship New Frontiers and look for a place to live out there ... they find that the galaxy is going to be a more challenging and ultimately, more rewarding place to live for this new breed of human. Much more will be revealed in Heinlein's other Future History novels.
I tried to read this one because I heard it was good. I think I'm just not a Heinlein fan so it's not fair for me to rate it. The writing was okay, the story was okay though it didn't really grab me. The characters were okay. The concept was good but the overall story seemed very dated.If you're a Heinlein fan, read it. If you're not, don't. If you're not familiar with Heinlein, give it a try, you might like it or you might not.
Going way back here, Methuselah's Children is a short novel by the dean of scifi and introduces one of the coolest cats in science fiction: Lazarus Long. The Howard family becomes infamous for "hiding" the secret of longevity, and thus begins their trek.Worth a read.
Simply outstanding!Selective breeding and carefully planned marriages with subtle financial encouragement from a secretive group called the Howard Foundation carried out over the last 150 years have resulted in a group of humans that have the extraordinary trait of extreme longevity - Lazarus Long, the patriarch of the Family, born Woodrow Wilson Smith, carries his two hundred plus years quite well!
Although Heinlein didn't use the word "replicator", he may well have been sitting on the script team for a Star Trek episode when he had Lazarus order up a customized kilt:"He sat down in a sales booth and dialed the code for kilts.
I recommend reading Revolt in 2100 before this, to get a feel for the world and meet one of the characters.
Actually, If you haven't started reading Heinlein yet, or haven't gotten to the World as Myth books, I highly recommend checking out some suggested reading orders*.
I'd recommend: (Stranger in a Strange Land), Revolt in 2100, Methuselah's Children, Time Enough for Love, The Number of the Beast, (The Moon is a Harsh Mistress), The Cat Who Walks through Walls, (To Sail Beyond the Sunset**).
The Moon is a Harsh Mistress is a favorite of mine and I definitely recommend reading it before The Cat Who Walks through Walls.
3.5 stars. I was pleasantly surprised by this. Not being much of an RAH fan, I was not expecting much beyond his using the story as a thin veil for his political rantings and ravings. To be sure, there was some of that, though it mostly took a backseat to a genuinely fun, engaging story with minimal kitsch and some interesting, unexpected twists. The story, and much of the science it expounds, holds up, in my inexpert opinion, quite well today, many decades after it was first published in 1958.
I have a vague memory of reading this before my Goodreads days, and of course that's quite possible. Heinlein has been on one bookshelf or another for longer than I care to recall, and very deservedly so.This one didn't strike many chords although it was good to see some familiar faces.
This is more than just a science fiction novel. It explores human nature in ways not commonly found. It raises interesting questions. I will leave it at that so I don't write any spoiler. Read the book.

1. It’s good, clean, science fiction fun.In stories like Methuselah’s Children, a reader can read into the book as much as he/she wants to and still walk away from the story feeling good about the whole experience.
There is a nod (agree to disagree if you must) towards Lovecraft-style horror.In spite of the novel being pretty short, and the storytelling not overly-descriptive, Heinlein will draw you into a world filled with a sense of deep time, and the reality of man’s insignificance in the cosmic realm.
*** Attenzione: di seguito anticipazioni sulla trama (SPOILER) ***Questo libro mi è piaciuto a tratti.Parla di questo gruppo di umani che ha una longevità a dir poco strabiliante grazie alla scoperta di alcuni soggetti con un dna particolare che accoppandosi hanno reso la vita dell'uomo mooolto più lunga, sui 200 anni e forse più.
Sono nascosti tra la popolazione, hanno false idenità e ogni tot anni cambiano posto nome, cambiano vita.Ad un certo punto decideno di venire allo scoperto pensando che la popolazione normale ormai fosse pronta per loro e invece...si scatena una vera caccia all'uomo per impossessarsi del segreto della vita eterna.
This goal was realized by his trustees providing financial encouragement to the grandchildren of long-lived persons to marry and have children.
By the 22nd century, descendants have a life expectancy of 150 years, but their existence is a secret from the rest of society.Great plot set up, because of course when they decide to reveal their secret all hell breaks loose and the Families must escape Earth in search of other galaxies and a new planet.
The remainder of the story concerns their adventures in space and the events surrounding their attempts to live on two different planets.
When the short-lived majority find out, they react poorly, insisting the Families must have some secret which the rest of humanity can share, and suspending civil liberties in their hunger for that secret, even at the risk of a new Holocaust.
Why give yourself a hypothetical setting which contradicts the main thrust of your story?That aside, it's a fun little romp, so long as you don't mind Heinlein's underlying assumption that Striving and Being Human is a better gig than just chilling forever on a paradise planet.
Robert Heinlein was one of the authors I branched out in to in my early days of reading (let alone reading science fiction).
Anyway I am glad I have read it as it introduces one of those characters I had seemingly forgotten but quickly got re-aquainted with - Lazarus Long.The book itself is divided in to two sections- the first is sociological thriller (ok set with 50/60s view of the future) but the second half - then becomes a stock science fiction yarn of wanderers exploring for a new home (but with a very much Gulliver's Travel feel to it - travelling from one strange civilisation to another finding that in fact none are quite right) - only to go full circle and come home again.
After freedom in America is won again during the Revolt of 2100, there is a group of humans who live extraordinary long lives while maintaining their youthful experiences.
In 2125, the world discovers the group’s existence, and they are persecuted, all the world wanting their secrets of youth.
Under extreme duress of jealousy arrest, torture, and murder, the group flees earth on an untested ship.
They return to earth for another chance.
In the first half it is jealousy and class envy.
In the second half, the themes of assimilation and domination play a big part.
