https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/182372.Mountain_Top_Mystery
falling fun
I love mysteries and these are my favorites. I love this series because: 1. you never know what might happen and 2.they are very easy to get into. The part that was very surprising was when Benny nearly fell off the mountain. My favorite part was when they found the Indian boy, David. The best part about mysteries is you never know what's going to happen.

I reread this book as research for a writing project, and although it probably only deserves one star, I had to bump it up to two stars for nostalgia's sake.
The Boxcar Children = most read series between the ages of 6 and 9 for me. I think of these fondly. Every child should read this series.
While on a Mountain Top adventure the Aldens discover that an old native American woman lives in the woods at the base of the mountain. When they go visit her, she talks about treasure that belonged to her ancestors that is hidden in a cave of the mountain. The Aldens had been stranded on the mountain top when a rock had broken off and blocked the way down. The broken rock revealed a cave where the Aldens find the treasure and take it to the woman. Simultaneously, the woman also is introduced to her grand-nephew.
As always, the bug and I enjoy reading these together, but none of them are as good as the first. There continues to be such genderized content that this time I wondered if I would continue to expose the little guy to them. I think the best plan for now is to just talk about it as, “WOW! That’s weird,” kind of conversation. I’m probably not ruining him, and if this is the thing I do that ruins him, I guess I’m happy that I ruined him with books and not something else?
This mystery involves American Indians. The children hike up a mountain get in to some trouble with rocks and a rock slide find new friends discover treasure and bring a family together. The Alden children are quite good at finding and solving a good mystery!
This was not really a mystery as much as it was a treasure hunt. It was very stereotypical in the way the girls and Native Americans were written.
This one didn't seem like much of a mystery to me. They had a mishap and had to figure out a way to get out of it.
This is the next summer after the previous book and the kids have decided to go where Grandfather was supposed to be taking them when they inadvertently ended up at the Lighthouse last time.
The children are obviously older now, though no ages are given.
Illustrations of Benny, sometimes called Ben now, show him as an older boy, not the little boy shown on this cover.
This is then the first time in the series in which the book ends with words presuming to tell us that there will be another adventure next summer and that will be time for another story.
This is one of my new favorites among this series. I'm always left wanting the story to continue, but this one in particular left me smiling as I finished the book. Now, I enjoy all the TBC books, but I'm rarely physically smiling when I finish any book. When I realized I was actually smiling at the way this story wrapped up with the love of family being a predominant theme of this book, I knew I'd found a new favorite to add to my favorites collection.
This book is somewhat reminiscent of The Yellow House Mystery in that, once again, the children meet an isolated Indian woman who makes baskets.
On the one hand, this story had a lot of interesting pieces - I liked the mountain setting and the Indian boy - but on the other hand, the mystery itself was pretty contrived, requiring quite a bit of set-up.
I also wasn't really fond of the way Grandfather, within minutes of meeting the Indian woman, decides to help her by buying an entire forest.
Seriously, all the kids do is say, "Gee Grandfather wouldn't it be great if we could use our vast fortune to help everyone we meet so that they won't have to worry about anything?" And then Grandpa Alden says, "Why that's a great idea!
There may have been a little more to it than that but not much.The previous book talk about money and they do help people but they never seemed to rely on it as much as they do in this book.
In the previous books the kids always felt more self sufficient.
I remember liking this one because it had fossils and hidden treasure and mountain climbing. As an adult though, it's a little weak, and I'm not quite sure where to place it in the timing, if it's a new summer, or the last days of summer after they get back from the light house, or nowhere. And then, just a little thing, the scaffolding is supposed to take three days to build, as everyone keeps saying, but somehow, in the midst of the snow and rain and finding David, wow, the construction is done in a day instead! Book magic!
As always, I enjoyed the mystery that goes along with this book as well as the others. What I liked most about this book was the use of diversity. Having s couple Indian characters made it special for me. The Indians weren't bad people, they were nice! Many people in the past took advantage of Indians and thought they were mean and terrible, but they weren't. In this book the two Indians are depicted as kind, caring, and loving. I love that and it's something important that I want my students to know.
This was a bit weak-not my favorite Boxcar mystery by any stretch. This had the feel of an underthought book, and smells like something turned out to satisfy a deadline rather than to get a story down. I would only recommend to those committed to the series-this is not the right book to get introduced to the series.
I always appreciate the positive and respectful attitudes exemplified by the Alden children. In this story, the Alden's meet an old Native American woman as well as a Native American boy during their outdoor adventure. They work together to solve the mystery at the mountain top and come away excited and looking forward to where they will go next.
TheDrudgery cutoff gingham bobbin and the history of this country has been a while since I was just thinking about you and your family is a good day at work and the boxcar children are you doing today and projects that are not going to be in the boxcar children and adults alike have to go out with you and your family is a good day at work and the other
This book is really interesting. I like how the author uses so many descriptive words. I can picture almost every single part in my head. This reminds me of last summer when my family went hiking up a trail by my Nana's house.
This is another fun adventure with the Aldens. A hiking trip gone awry, with a mystery for the kids to figure out. I highly recommend not only this story, but all the Boxcar Children stories.
I don't remember what happens in this book. It's been so long since I read it.
good
The whole series is very good for kids.
One of my favorite childhood series. I read over a hundred of them. The first 50 or so were in order; after that I read whatever book I could get my hands on :)
I'm working on entering all the books I've ever read. This book was one of them. I read this book when I was 10 years old.
I thought of my self with my grandfather exploring the world together.How interesting it would be. And also about the good things the children and their grandfather.
Warner, Gertrude C. PB
I liked it!
X2
