https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/43112.The_Antonio_Gramsci_Reader
It was necessary to see these and other sights, in order to be convinced how limitless the latent powers of the masses are, and how they are revealed and develop swiftly as soon as the conviction takes root among the masses that they are arbiters and masters of their own destinies.*Unlike the Frankfurt school, Gramsci doesn't seem to have had much contact with modern Hollywood-derived pop culture.
However, he was deeply attuned to folk culture, and considered it a front in the struggle for socialismIt is clear that, in order to achieve the desired end, the spirit of folklore studies should be changed, as well as deepened and extended.
eh
Gramsci is a critic of revolutions, taking an anarchist’s stance in that a state-structure will eventually obfuscate revolutionary goals on the basis of those-in-power's personal interest.
The basis for Gramsci is the ability of the individual: A proletarian, no matter how intelligent, no matter how fit to become a man of culture, is forced either to squander his qualities on some other activity, or else to become a rebel and autodidact—i.e.(apart from some notable exceptions) a mediocrity, a man who cannot give all he could have given had he been completed and strengthened by the discipline of school.
At any rate, Gramsci is focusing entirely on Italy in these sections: most of the writing here is related to specific events in the communist party or the immediately pre-Mussolini era.
Gramsci was arrested and imprisoned for what would turn out to be the rest of his life after the Fascists banned all political parties, and during the ten years he spent in jail he changed his focus to more philosophical and theoretical topics.
Rather than particular issues within the Italian communist world, he begins to write about larger concepts within the “philosophy of praxis” and its potential political implementation.
Gramsci is beautifull and this reader is something I'll always come back to. Abused by academics and underread by organizers. 'Notes on the Study of Philosophy' piece and Gramsci's understanding of consciousness is a must read for all serious radicals in my opinion.
Gramsci spent 12 years writing in a cold, dark, Italian prison so I could read his thoughts on Marxism from the comfort of my warm, well-lit, and nicely furnished bourgeois home.
While in prison he wrote extensively on a wide range of subjects pertaining to politics, social organization, and education.While attending the Univerity of Turin on a scholarship, he developed an interest in linguistics.
To me, his writings on the subject of education are particularly interesting.
One does not study Latin in order to learn the language.
it will always be an effort to learn physical self-discipline and self-control; the pupil has, in effect, to undergo a psycho-physical training.
Wider participation in secondary education brings with it a tendency to ease of the discipline of studies, and to ask for 'relaxations.'" Prescient words indeed.
Normalde seçme yazılar biçiminde derlemeleri okumaktansa bir yazarın kitabını ya da kitaplarını kendi bütünlüğü içinde okumayı tercih ederim. Ancak Hapishane Defterleri'nin Türkçe çevirisi gerçekten berbat. Bu derleme de beklediğimden daha başarılı. Bölümlerin başında giriş olarak yazılan kısımlar bütünlük sağlamayı kolaylaştırıyor. Gramsci okumak isteyenler için sanırım Türkçe'deki en iyi kaynak.
I read the Prison Letters and some of his other work while doing my PhD, and cited much of it, but had to put it out of my thesis after it was ruled biased and out of the scope of my work, unfortunately. I thought it put much of my work on participatory decision-making in the emission of money into a broader context, but it was not my call.
Good selection, with valuable commentary between sections. Visit the Online University of the Left http://ouleft.org and pick the Lives Classes section for three 90-minute videos using this book for an overview of Gramsci and his key ideas.
Gramsci was a novel thinker, but not the most exciting writer. He covers a great deal of ground, which is a strength and a weakness of this anthology. For a less materialist & determinist view of Marxism, he is your go to man.
Can be read straight thru (the editor did a wonderful job grouping things together and making the entire book) or each essay/letter can be read individually. A good read if you already have some interest in government and political science but probably not good for people new to the subject.
Too academic, doesn't go into dependency theory and his influence on that so much, more just standard marxism.
I wasn't sure whether to give this four or five stars, and I decided on five stars because why not?I'm interested to read more of the prison notebooks.
Reading the newspaper articles and letters that are included in the beginning of this volume, gramsci seems like a very interesting guy and like the kind of person you would expect to find intellectuals reading, but there's nothing absolutely crazy going on.Once the book got to his prison notebooks, it started to become incredibly clear that Gramsci was a genius.
They're incredibly interesting and thoughtful.
The point of reading Gramsci is to gain an understanding of his principles and methods.The book spans the period from just before the Russian revolution to near the time of Gramsci's death in 1937, including the ten years that he was imprisoned by the Fascist regime.
It was at this time that he began to develop his important contributions to Marxism regarding the dialiectical relationship between structure and superstructure; i.e. the interplay between the objective development of capitalism and the layers of culture and politics that overlay that base.The remainder of the book consists of extracts from the prison notebooks.
kinda essential basically

Wonderful collection & reference for theory.
If one wants to understand early twentieth century Marxist thought, one cannot bypass Gramsci. A helpful anthology.
This one will take some mulling over.
Here's the link to my article on Gramsci: http://www.pslweb.org/liberationnews/...
excellent. The section of culture and education is phenomenal.I CANT WAIT FOR PRISON NOTEBOOKS [TO KILL ME {AGAIN}]!!!
