https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/48837.The_Holocaust
It is a big, dense book, with a stark black cover emblazoned with blood-red lettering; in many ways it is a monument, filled with the stories of the dead.
Gilbert keeps throwing ridiculous numbers out on the page (whole towns, whole generations, lost), and intersperses the dry figures (what does it mean that 1,000 people died, or 10,000?) with horrific stories of Jews who somehow survived in the killing pits, trapped beneath the naked, blood-streaked corpses of countless victims.
(There are obvious space constraints, but I would’ve have liked to have seen Gilbert integrate the Holocaust into World War II a bit more.
I'm not sure how to (or even if I should) review or grade a book that is effectively a catalogue of Holocaust murders. It's an astonishing, moving and horrifying achievement. Read it, so we never forget.

This is a tour-de-force of history.
Martin Gilbert had an ambitious project -- cover the whole Holocaust from the pre-Hitler days to after the war, all over Europe -- but he was able to accomplish his ends without either glossing over anything or making it too long.
I was dizzied by the number of sources he quoted.
The guy really knows how to write, too, and put his sources together into one coherent narrative.Two caveats: Gilbert transliterates proper names strangely.
In the meantime, Martin Gilbert is my new superhero.
I picked this book up because I was looking for more infromation about Bialystok Ghetto, and this book has it.
There's a quote from Elie Wiesel on the back of my edition.
The quote reads, "This book must be read and reread.
But simply to remember all those whom the world, once upon a time, tried to forget".Gilbert's book stops from becoming a death list because of the names that make thier way into the book.
In additional to the thousands of less or little known people, Gilbert mentions Saul Friedlander, his own family, Pope John Paul II.
Methodically describing how Jews were hunted down and executed village by village, rounded into ghettos, sent to labor camps and death camps.
First the numbers were small, and this book imprints upon one the realization of how many times several thousand people had to be executed to reach 6 million Jews and 6 million others.
This also shows that, because they were isolated in ghettos, the Jews did not know about the death camps and then refused to believe stories from the few escapees.
I also had not realized that the Germans went to such lengths to deceive the Jews and others as to their destination, even when at the gas chamber.
This is one of the most horrific books I have ever read, because it's true.
The passage of time generally removes much of the emotion from history, but not with the Holocaust and not with this book.
I found myself in tears within ten pages and pretty much cried my way through its entirety.
It left me shaken and disturbed, as it should.If you want to really feel what the Holocaust was like, to see snapshots from lives, to experience the sheer inhumanity and horror of the Nazi death-camps, to see what human beings are really capable of, read this book.
Instead I would recommend "The Holocaust : The Fate of European Jewry 1932-1945" by Leni Yahil which i think will become the standard history. Gilbert catalogues the individual horrors in an unceasing page after page torrent of horror and misery, and with this subject, if you do not strive for a measure of dispassion and objectivity, you will drown. Gilbert's book drowns the reader. Yahil's book gives the reader the big picture - the huge picture - and the necessary details.
This is an excellent book and very well researched, an in depth study of the Holocaust.
The figure of 6 million jews killed by the Nazis is a number that is difficult to comprehend, just because of its sheer scale.
Books like "If This is a Man" by Primo Levi and "Schindlers Ark" by Thomas Kennealy bring home the reality and bestial horror of life and death in the camps, but just how do you get your head around 6,000,000?
It seems like 1000's are dying on literally every page, but that is its power.
If you do the maths........the book has 960 pages....so that's 6,250 people killed per page.
Keep that figure in mind as you read......just mind numbingly horrific.
Probably the finest, most comprehensive and beautifully written work on the 20th Century's ultimate nadir. This work should be read by everyone, but like most important works on the 20th Century's darkest period, it will be read by those who least need to read it and will be ignored by those that should read it.
Took time to read this book. As I just had to pause every now and then because I felt it was hard to breathe. I bow my head to all those souls suffered and lost. I am thankful for reading this, as it is no entertainment, but it allows me to appreciate so much more of what I have been blessed with, and one couldn't even realize, could be so simply lost.
It took me a very long time to finish “The Holocaust” because the subject matter is so disturbing and horrifying (and its also quite massive with over 800 pages of content and about a hundred pages of notes and sources). Nonetheless this is an important book that more people should read. The horror of the Holocaust cant be surmised by a single book but Martin Gilberts effort to give us a cohesive history of the calculated murder of Jews is astounding.Beginning in the 1930s and ending in 1946 Gil
You just get a sense of how massive the whole operation of the Nazis was.Please keep in mind that “The Holocaust” focuses on Jews only (it´s full title is “The Holocaust – The Jewish Tragedy”, so that should be indication enough).
As far as I know the Jewish prisoners were brought there later on.) I mention this because this might be a drawback for some people who want more information about all the groups the Nazis persecuted.I can´t adequately put into words what I feel about this book.
So vociferous was Hitler's praise of this act that he was sentenced to a month in prison, while Julius Streicher launched in 1923 'Der Sturmer', a newspaper devoted to portraying the malign Jewish influence.
Circumstances would favour extremists with sudden soaring inflation and unemployment the following year, and the first Jewish casualties fell in January 1930 as Stormtroops killed eight Jews.
To widespread shock, at elections that September, the number of Nazi seats spiralled to 107, making them the second largest political party, and lack of unity between Communist and Socialist parties led to Hitler's election as the compromise candidate for Chancellor in January 1933.
Beginning with the death of the first eight Jews of the Nazi era on New Years Day 1930, at the hands of Hitler's SA brownshirts, the shocking extent of this persecution is underlined by the examples related by Gilbert.
It's a true testament to the Holocaust and a book that should not only be read but should remain on the shelf to be revisited on future occasions, when you need a reminder of the horrors man can perpetrate upon man.
So here's how I read this amazing recollection.
If you cannot stand the horror-and it is 828 pages of horror- then at least read Adolf Berman's recollection on page 388, all of chapters 32 and 33, and the letter to God from chapter 34, pages 666-667, and the Epilogue, especially the story of Matilda Bandet, pages 827-828.
The rabbi burst into tears and then, hoping to reassure the child, began to laugh.
'Older than you.' 'How can you say that?' asked the rabbi, fearing the child was deranged.
Though the figure of Adolf Hitler remains in the background, such executives as Himmler, Eichmann and Mengele are very much in evidence throughout the gripping narrative (there is new material on the latter's labors at Auschwitz).
An element in the historical tragedy that Gilbert stresses is the deliberate destruction of childrenone of Mengele's principal interestswhich the author calls "the new barbarism." The narrative reaches its dreadful climax with the convergence on the death camps of the Allied and Soviet armies, a time when "rescue and slaughter marched hand in hand." A particularly disturbing section deals with outbreaks of anti-Semitism after the German surrender.
Most people remember the figure of how many Jews were killed during the Holocaust, 6 million.
This figure is so large that it becomes impersonal unless directly affected by those events.
If millions die, that’s only statistics.” seems very applicable to the Holocaust particularly to a modern audience.
What this book succeeds in accomplishing is to brutally remind us that each person in those 6 million had a name, a family, a place in society.
This is one book I'll never forget though I may find it too emotionally difficult to read again.
Very well-written account of the Nazi regime and the cultures and peoples they devastated.
This book is very informative; I'd never read a Holocaust atlas before, and after seeing the many different types of information presented, I don't know why books like this aren't more common.
I could see specific figures and statistics by country; I saw maps showing the locations of camps, ghettos, and uprisings; some maps showed the journeys of specific people, e.g. Anne Frank and Kitty Hart; some maps showed the popular routes followed by thousands trying to escape persecution.
Everyone should read this book.
There were times, while reading this tragic time in history, that I just had to put the book down, even though I didn't want to. It was hard to imagine that people lived in this world that would do such atrocities to fellow human beings, and worse, take delight in it. I do feel it is a must read for all - so history will not repeat itself.
This review would mostly be a repeat of what I said about "Roots" in my latest review, but I will repeat, for fear of history repeating itself. The inhumanity of man to his own species (let alone the planet and animal life) is one which can sicken the strong of heart. Weep over this book, but don't forget it.
A very accessible general history by one of the most prominent English language historians. Features a depth of first-hand accounts, presented in an approachable fashion. It's extremely comprehensive and well sourced.
Very gritty book. So much research and stories about real people. Very hard to read as of course the subject matter is grim, but the book is excellent. I think everyone ought to know what happened, even though it is hard to read. Will haunt me forever.
How can a reader rate such a book with stars? This is a relentless read that mirrors the relentless of the Nazis actions and shows the enormity of what they and their allies did. Everyone should read this.
It's tough to rate this one "I really liked it" based on the content, but the writing was great and the book was extremely informative which is what I was looking for.
Mind numbing to read all the way through, but an excellent resource.
loaded with information...intense...i read every page, but i couldn't do many at one sitting because of the subject matter.
Very good book. A long and hard read. Very disturbing imagery. Amazing what man does to man.
http://oldsmiley.blogspot.com/2014/12...
“In the concentration camps, Jews were not people, but figuren, ‘numbers’ or ‘figures’, these men who had become ‘dogs’, did not intend to die without there being a record of what had been done to them.” Gilbert, a historian of great repute and authority, had set out to put forth that record for the world to judge.
Gilbert writes with the level-headedness of a historian in a language that is restrained and elegant.
But because it deals with a subject that defies logic and comprehension by the sheer brutality of it.Page after page – over 850 of them – the tome depicts the man’s cruelty to man.
