https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/12095.The_Bald_Soprano_and_Other_Plays
On one visit, I witnessed this exchange:We are walking down a corridor to my grandfather’s room, father and son.Before we reach his room, an old-timer approaches, he seems lost as he wanders the halls in his pajamas.-Excuse me, do either of you know how to get to Riordan’s General Store?Remember, we are in the belly of a nursing facility for older people dealing with their unique challenges.My father, points down the hall to the last room and says to the elder,-If you go down this road, Essex Street, (as his eyes attend the carpeted floor) until you reach that last shop, (which is the last room) wait at the stop sign, look both ways, make a right turn, and you will find Riordan’s, about a quarter of a mile down the road, on the right-hand side (this route, the only one there is, will end at the nurse’s station where he will be brought back to his room).The old man tips his invisible hat to us, a sign of appreciation, and exhales,-Thank you very much.
'The Bald Soprano' is about a dinner party that should have included the Mad Hatter.
Two couples, crazy conversation, then a twisted ending.
Lol) Jack is urged to marry Roberta, but when he sees she has two noses he declines.
He still almost turns the three nose lovely away until he sees she has nine fingers on one hand.
Then its true love.
'The Chairs' is a " tragic farce." It is an old couple.
When the crowd begins to arrive they are all invisible, including the Emperor.
Its actually a sad play with a tragic ending.
The nonsense comes to a climax when the Fire chief makes a meaningless reference to "the bald soprano" which no one could possibly understand and then Mrs. Smith replies with an inconceivable joke to wade through the impossible reference, saying, "she always wore her hair the same way."  The other notable play in this volume is The Chairs.
It is a terribly depressing end for the old couple to kill themselves off with such blissful assurance that their lives were meaningful, the man, that a fine audience would behold his philosophical significance and the wife, that she could love and be with him during his last success.
i have read little of experimental plays but the ones i have read are great, waiting for godot, dumbwaiter, rhinoceros... the only reason it is only a four is variable appreciation, i really liked bald soprano, the lesson, jack, or the submission, but the chairs was too abstract... and then these are plays and the key art experience is to see a production (going to see rhinoceros at u soon) and some of it sounds very challenging acting (changes imperceptible in the lesson) so it will depend on how it is mounted...
აბსურდი ჩვენი არსებობისა! <3
Ionesco, you so cray.
genijalno
“The Chairs” can be read as an allegory of the whole Ionescoean theatre, especially in regard to the present four plays.
The Orator in “The Chairs” is Ionesco himself whom we as viewers have been anxiously waiting for.
We have prepared the stage for the revelation of truth by Ionesco-Orator.
Ju, gou, hou, hou, heu, gu gou, gueue”, and a final “ADIEU” which Ionesco-Orator throws at our face to announce the end of waiting for some truth to be revealed on the stage.
There is nothing to be revealed.
We shamefully leave the theatre, and on our way back, we stumble upon two dead old bodies.
This is another play of the genre, "Theater of the Absurd". I read it as well as saw it performed live by a very talented theater troupe many, many moons ago. I don't want to give away the entire plot of this play, but "A-E-I-O-U" is an important part of the dialogue as well as revealing to how Eugene Ionesco might view society sometimes. I do recommend reading this play as well as other plays from Eugene Ionesco. You just might find yourself seeing and enjoying life with all of its absurdities. LOL!
Bald soprano 4/5The lesson 5/5Jack, or the Submission 2/5The Chairs (3.5/5, because I can) Interesting stuff about the futility of language, the pressure (and emptiness) of conformity. The lesson is my fave by far because it goes beyond its absurdists trappings to tackle misogyny in the 1950s. It's a lot to read all at once, but certainly a different idea of what theater can do.
3.5/5 for me almost all the plays dragged in some places usually near the beginning but they get better as they go on. my fav parts were the end of jack or the submission when jack and roberta ii talk with each other, which was strangely beautiful to me ?, and the chairs gets extremely good when (mild spoiler i guess) the crowd of invisible people come in. the bald soprano and the lesson are more goofy and silly. ionesco was a goofster
These four plays of Ionesco, among the very first that he wrote, already show him preoccupied with themes that will concern him for the rest of his career in theatre: the futility of language, the terror of ideological conformity, and theorizing about the play within the framework of the play itself.
After all, the plots are not the most interesting things in the plays.Ionesco got the idea for “The Bald Soprano” while trying to learn Assimil method.
I grew tiresome, monotone, droning, awkward, assaulted by large vocabulary that no-one in their right mind understands, muddled, and even angry at times.The Bald Soprano - Someone told me this play can best be described as "a house of robots." I honestly can't put it any better.
If you look up every insane word that you don't know in this play while you read it, you would be doing yourself a disservice.
If you were performing the play, yes, definitely look the words up and know what they mean.
The ending makes the less sense than anything I have ever read before.
اقا و خانم اسمیت یک زوج انگلیسی همخانه و همخوابه ، به تمام معنا،با کلاس،با دیسیپلین که حتی امکان دار
First, a word of warning: The four plays in this book should not be consumed in one sitting - the absurdity is just too much and you're likely to form a negative impression of Ionesco.
You'd do better to read other existentialist writers like Sartre and Camus, whose limpid prose dramatize their belief that language and rationality is still, in some ways, adequate to the task of expressing the absurdity, purposelessness and senselessness of life - a belief that Ionesco, of course, shares, but that he conveys in meaningless, pared-down language.

Likely the strangest thing I've ever read. I laughed, out of sheer absurdity (and also, because I was doing a reading with some very confused people taking it entirely too seriously). It's incredibly overhyped in my opinion (it's the equivalent of slamming your head on the keyboard and allowing Autocorrect to write a play for you), and I'm not sure why it's so popular to produce (low budget, probably), but definitely not to be read when lacking sleep or caffeine. Patience will run thin.
The Bald Soprano-- How curious it is, how curious it is, and bizarre and what a coincidence! One should rate this higher due to its place in theatrical history--However, as a read it evokes, but does not realize, the three dimensional theatricality of the stage. Repetition especialy, requires the actors' energy (certainly not mine) to bring life and depth to these lines.
May be 5, I just can't remember, because it was a long time ago.
Read JACK, OR THE SUBMISSION again with Portland Playreaders in July 1982
I love Ionesco and plays he wrote for "the theatre of the absurd."
probably this is not my cup of tea! BOUNCER! he he :-D
Blech. The literary equivalent of splattering a fetid substance on canvas and calling it art. Damn the allegories. People paid money to see this?
Quality.
not my cup of tea.
This crazy Romanian turned Frenchman with his absurd stage plays, the Bald Soprano and stuff like that, was synonym for art trash in yahoo speak.
Good honest citizens detested that kind of stuff and complained when theatres and museums who were subsidized by public funds played or diplayed it.
Ionesco was the equivalent of Picasso in my home town red neck cultural perspective.
Nobody can play this mad professor who kills his private students after endless absurd monologues on philology (which leads to calamity, as the maid says).
Hail to old Ionesco!
The plays decline in quality as you go along in the book and became a chore to read.
I ended up skimming The Chairs due to how repetitive it was and seeing the arc of the plot about 10 pages in.
Most of the plays have very similar endings that emphasize the recursive and nonsensical.
Not a book to read in a week like I did, but one where to read a play and then come back a few weeks later to read another.
Three due to the context of these being performed over being read is probably a lot more enjoyable.
A nonsense play where two couples, their maid and a fire chief interact in a complex weaving of absurd and meaningless stories. "The Bald Soprano" is the only line that interrupts the flow of jibberish and elicits a reaction. As an exception to these sorts of experimental works, I enjoyed the flow of this play. The two couples, the maid, and the fire chief all revolved around each other and in the end change roles. The movement felt like a mimicking of our own meaningless back and forth. I was intrigued. Recommend.
Ίσως ο Ιονέσκο με αυτο το έργο ειναι το μεγαλύτερο τρόλ απέναντι στους ανόητους σημαίνοντες και σε όλους αυτούς που ειναι γεμάτοι βεβαιότητες για τον εαυτό τους και για τον κόσμο γύρω τους, σε αυτούς που ξοδεύουν τις λέξεις και σε όλους αυτούς που αγνοώντας το παράλογο της ύπαρξης συνεχίζουν να επιμένουν στη μηχανικότητα, ματαιότητα και φαυλότητα, Με εξέπληξε ευχάριστα, ειναι ένα έργο που θέλει λίγη προεργασία για να το εκτιμήσεις
The humor is ridiculous and funny but it becomes too much after The Lesson. I read The Bald Soprano for drama, and it was hilarious. Then I read The Lesson, which was almost as funny.But I started the last two plays "Jack and the Submission" and "The Chairs" and thought the first one was too much, and second was boring. I didn't finish those two. Funny British humor for sure. It's hard to rate better when I only liked half the plays. But I LOVED the plays I did like.
