https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/32077.D_H_Lawrence
Nin writes about different aspects of Lawrence works, his key ideas and how they play out in his novels and poems.
One understands his work fully not by the exercise of one faculty; there must be a threefold desire of intellect, of imagination and of the physical feeling– to see and experience with 'the soul and the body.' In the words of Nin, Lawrence's philosophy is not merely an intellectual edifice; it is in fact realized ''as as passionate blood experience.''My own experience of reading Lawrence intrigued me as a young schoolboy.
One does not have to read the novels in order to understand this book.
Nin's book provides a solid and passionately poetic introduction to Lawrence. She cuts to the core of his work and doesn't bear any of the prejudices against DHL novels known only to specialists - books like Twilight in Italy, The Lost Girl, and Kangaroo - and explores their merits. Also, without providing any direct comparisons to other modernist authors (except Proust), she reveals the innovations and experimental nature of DHL's prose style and philosophy. I'd recommend Nin's book to any new reader of DHL - and to any veteran who wants a reminder of the challenge of D.H. Lawrence.
This well known quote (below) is quite poignant in context from Anais Nin's study on DH Lawrence.
This is one of the earlier works from Nin. I read this not too long after reading Lawrence's, "Psychoanalysis and the Unconscious" from 1921.
Both works seem to compliment each other in sense of a similar nonfiction writing style.
It's a great break from some of the stale texts and bios.
"Life is a process of becoming, a combination of states we have to go through.
Where people fail is that they wish to elect a state and remain in it.
B If you are hoping to get some valuable criticism for your Lawrence paper, you won't find it here. What you will find is a different view of Lawrence--Nin's commentary in a flowing fashion, full of interesting tidbits. Recommended for Nin and Lawrence fans.
thrilling to read it cover to cover like a cupcake. i am a thorough nin nut. i also enjoyed her excerpts of lawrence & her pure admiration. reads a bit like school essay, but her young earnestness is adorable.
Nin certainly has read her Lawrence, but her hagiography seems shaky.
Trying to create a usable ideology through fiction is a whole lot tougher than saying, "S/he held true to their beliefs." This search for authenticity is fine for dilettantes and lower upper class scions striving for middle class acceptance.
Nin has tried to explain his motives and does so quite admirably, but coming for the same milieu, perhaps some distance would have helped.
I would recommend this book to people who are going to read Lawrence, as it is a struggle without some insight.
One thing she points out is his racism for dark skinned people.
Ramon being the violent protagonist in one book.
Anais Nin definitely did a thorough job explaining Lawrence works, writing style, philosophy etc. I would highly recommend this if you're rly interested in Lawrence's works and his opinions about life.
