https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6288.The_Road
It's not like McCarthy is only using simple, straightforward sentences, either---he fills up on conjoined clauses and partial sentence fragments, he just doesn't bother to mark any of them.He also doesn't use any quotes in the books, and rarely attributes statements to characters, so we must first try to figure out if someone is talking, or if it's just another snatch of 'poetic license', and then determine who is talking.
That’s like the unendurable physical suffering of people in the third world who are trying to find food and escape crazed, murderous mobs.” So then he wrote a book equating the two, which is about the most callous, egotistical act of privileged self-pity a writer can indulge in.At least now I know why the characters and their reactions don’t make much sense.
This wasn't nearly as funny as everybody says it is.
I really feel compelled to write up a review of McCarthy's The Road as this book really worked for me (for those of you who haven't read it, there are no real spoilers below, only random quotes and thematic commentary).
I have read most of McCarthy's other books and am already a big fan, but this one is different, perhaps his best in terms of lean, masterful prose, plot presentation, and flat-out brilliant storytelling.Take this passage for example: "The blackness he woke to on those nights was sightless and impenetrable.
He palmed the spartan book with black cover and set out in the gray morning.
Ashen in the sky.He set out for the road, the book in hand.
The ashen gray fog.He stepped aboard, spartan book in hand.
Just going.He opened the book and read.
He read.He recognized images from films long since past, and books from authors of yore.
His gray, dulled mind.
Their gray matter just did not know.And they went on down the road.------(KR@KY 2009, amended only very slightly in 2016)NOTE: This review was written about, and during, bus rides to work while reading this book.
I just finished reading "The Road" today - it only took a couple of hours to get through, because it's not that long a book, and I think it was a good way to read it because I felt really immersed in the story, which is told like one long run-on nightmare of poetic import.
I didn't feel like I got to know the characters any better as the story went along - they remained distant to me emotionally, endless travelers that I could empathize with (as you would empathize with any soul wandering a post-apocalyptic desert) but I didn't really feel close to anything that happened because the narrative's disjointed and abstract tone just pushed me away as much as it made me reflect on apocalypse.
They are gone and I am left and they have taken with them the world.”Thus, the man and the boy (that’s the only names we are ever given for them) walk down them.
There’s just not that much to talk about when you live in a world where you’re under constant threat from roaming gangs of cannibals catching you, dying of starvation and perhaps even exposure along with the knowledge that you will have to kill your son should the said cannibals finally catch up with you.
Perhaps, similar to these men, world leaders attempted to remedy the image of evil on a macro level.Here is a typical scene the man and boy come upon: "Beyond a crossroads in that wilderness they began to come upon the possessions of travelers abandoned in the road years ago.
Sometimes he reflects there is only this evil world of matter, harrowing and unrelenting; and yet sometimes he recognizes the boy as a messenger come from that otherworldly realm of light.Rather than attempting an answer, I suggest reading with these ideas of dualism and Gnosticism in mind as one way of contemplating and appreciating the philosophical dimensions of McCarthy’s bleak novel.Cormac McCarthy - American novelist and independent spirit par excellence
But you might be on to something.The Boy: What difference would it make if we threw away all the apostrophes?Papa: Not much.
I wish your grammar could hear you talking!In Praise of the Verb to GrowOut of ashen gray Frequently grow sentencesOf colored beauty.All Things of Grace and Beauty[An Assemblage of Favourite Sentences]Like the onset of some cold glaucoma dimming away the world.
By day the banished sun circles the earth like a grieving mother with a lamp.
The dark serpentine of a dead vine running down it like the track of some enterprise on a graph.
(A-) 84% | Very GoodNotes: Dreamlike and deeply moving, it’s thin on plot, with dialogue that’s often genius, but also inauthentic and repetitive.
Moreover, McCarthy never provides names to his characters this forces him to use the pronoun “he” frequently which very often leaves the reader bewildered as to whether he is referring to the father or the boy.
Nor is he making the statement that he can write a whole book without punctuation as he does, on rare occasions, use a comma or an apostrophe, (as you can see from the dialog segment I listed above,) as if he is going senile and merely forgot.
Often times writers anguish over distilling the plot of a novel into a few sentences that might fit on the back of a book cover.
What the book lacks in plot it clearly makes up for in even less characterization.
Ladies and gentlemen of Goodreads, I present to you my first five star review of 2018- The Road by Cormac McCarthy.
And y’all wanna know how many stars I rated this book last time?
I don’t know why all of a sudden this book grabbed me and held me in its arms like a little baby and crushed me in the end.
Listening to the book forced me to slow down a little bit and take in the writing in a much different way.
The book is beautiful, man, and I think it’s beauty flew right past me the first two times.
One of my favourite of all time.Loved everything. Terrifying.
However, the most important effects that it had on me as a person (aside from making me feel capable of handling a whole lot of bullshit, weathering the storms of life, yadda yadda) were a) binding my sister and I in an unbreakable way and b) making me see seemingly obvious bits of the process of living (food, tiny little gifts, things like Christmas lights and Easter eggs and really warm gloves) as the precious objects that we so often forget that they are.
Each sentence is presented like a precious object, a simple little thing which is, in its very simplicity, some exquisite testimonial to the process of living and loving.
A good friend gave this to me to read.
I told him I already had an audiobook working and he said, "you'll want to read this one".
I could barely put it down.
Mesmerizing.
McCarthy's prose is simple, fable like, yet also lyrical, like a minamalistic poet.
Having read the book, not sure if I want to see the film, it may spoil my vision of McCarthy's art.
**March 2017 and I still have not seen the film and still don't think I will.
I have nightmares similar to what Cormac McCarthy depicted in his book.I’m with my family.
Fear is the motivator.
Fear is the wind; the element that upsets the precarious balance on the tightrope of our existence.
It’s a long way down into the abyss, but the dark looks comforting – inviting.In light of this, the specific situations depicted in the book raise some questions for me:I love my family but could I be as resourceful as “the man”?
This is one of the saddest books about a father and child that I have ever read in my life . . yet. There were a couple of happy times. Not so much though =( Mel ♥
Let’s check my list and see which things appear in The Road:• A plot that lacks clear beginning or ending (check) • Important characters who don't grow or learn from their experiences (check)• Important characters whose actions lack clear motivation (check)• Scenes and dialogue that are repetitive or unoriginal (check) • Violence and gore included for shock value (check) • Locations and settings that are ambiguous (check) • History and backstory that are ambiguous (check) • Grammar and punctuation used in a pretentious or self-indulgent manner (check) • Pronouns and punctuation used in an ambiguous manner (check) • Metaphors and analogies that appear contrived, forced and disjointed (check) Okay, to be fair The Road doesn’t exhibit most of the suck-quotient factors; it exhibits all of them.
McCarthy uses short declaratives, as if even language was short of breath in the devastation, and terrorizes generations of elementary school english teachers by tossing off verbless phrases as sentences (p 27 - A river far below.) He is effective in turning nouns into verbs, as on p4 – “when it was light enough to use the binoculars he glassed the valley below.” Forgetting the content of the narrative this is a masterwork of style.
Yet the love of the father for his son is palpable and despite the omnipresent gray ash, there remain slivers of hope.
The story doesn’t end happily ever after, not by a long shot, but there are real triumphs all along the way and these don’t vanish simply because we aren’t served up every fulfilled desire on a silver platter.
Anything that can shake a person to their core and set off a chain of thoughts that leads to the desire to live better than before, perhaps ethically, or to allow them to feel things more profoundly—such as gratitude and amazement at the very fact of anything existing at all—deserves all the praise it can get.
There is a deep love and care between man and boy, each projecting their own survival instinct on to the other.
In fact I think I think one reason some people don't "get" this book is that they read it as a novel that hasn't been proofread, rather than immersing themselves in it as a prose poem.Much has been made of the intriguingly odd phrase "The snow fell nor did it cease to fall", which leapt off the page at me and is also discussed on Language Log: http://languagelog.ldc.upenn.edu/nll/....RELATED WORKSA film is coming out in the autumn.
I’m trying to find solace in the fact that I’m probably not the only one to be humiliatingly hoodwinked into taking the time to read Cormac McCarthy’s much-celebrated yawn-fest “The Road”, although this hardly makes this bamboozling something to boast about.
I’m almost interested to hear why someone might have actually enjoyed “The Road”, in which McCarthy somehow managed to make boring the concept of post-apocalyptic America.
And the simple, devastating power of Of Mice and Men and The Old Man and the Sea. Books of allegorical significance and moral power.In a way, this tale, set years after nuclear holocaust and environmental devastation, is a kind of guide for the apocalypse--any apocalypse, the Big One, your own or a loved one's death, the end of anything--with principle, with character, dignity and love; in this case, it is a father and son facing oblivion, moving forward, Pilgrim's Progress, "carrying the fire" against all odds, never giving up, and it is heartbreaking and devastating.
The road is a promise.
A father and a son, survivors of an anonymous apocalypse, hold on to that promise.
Hold on to it too tightly, dream of it too violently, and both the promise and the road will turn to dust, leaving you in a desert with nowhere to go.The father and his son know this in their hearts.
Every step they take is a rebellion against a world turned cold and dry.On a planet that no longer indulges the luxury of life, the road of stubborn survival only knows one destination.
Excuse me please while I cover my face with my hands and quietly sob.In a scorched and dangerous post-apocalyptic America, an unnamed father and son scavenge for food, look for shelter and try to avoid bandits and people who’ve resorted to cannibalism.
It was so bleak and unrelenting, and the characters had no goal except survival: finding that next stash of canned goods, locating oil for a lamp, finding blankets to protect them from the cold, making sure their shoes held out.Ultimately, the love between father and son gives the book its heart, and offers up a bit of hope to the reader.
How to survive, how to protect, how to love.Five Stars  For Most Creative Environment: The world of this book is not beautiful.
It is a dead world that has not yet begun to come back to life, and we do not know if it ever will.Six Stars  For Pulling Me Out of my Comfort Zone and Making Me Like It: Post-apocalyptic or dystopian writing is not a genre I feel comfortable with for various reasons.
Having said that, this is one of those very rare stories that seems to cut across all genres, grabs hold, and doesn’t let you go – even after the last page.I loved this book, and recommend it to anyone who might be interested in the above Star points.
2009In un mondo desaturato trionfo del grigio, pieno di cenere polvere e fumo, che costringe i pochi rimasti a vestire mascherine, in un mondo con più castigo che delitto e i giorni contati, dove sopravvivere è meno auspicabile della morte, dove alzarsi la mattina è un autentico atto di coraggio, dove si prova invidia per i morti, dove 'la strada' non indica viaggio, avventura ricerca scoperta, ma fuga, paura, minaccia (infatti è meglio tenersi fuori dalla strada per evitare brutti incontri), in un mondo così, Cormac McCarthy il biblico, qui diventato apocalittico (o post-apocalittico), mette in scena una meravigliosa storia d'amore, straziante totale viscerale tra un padre (l'uomo) e suo figlio (il bambino).
This book is shocking, loving, groundbreakingly impressive, beautifully written. I read through it without breathing, I mean I just had to know what was coming on the next page, and cried several times. Without a doubt one of the best books, if not the best, I read, ever...
The Road is a painful, beautiful, horrifying, heartfelt, and compelling novel about a father and his son that astounded me from its opening pages through to its conclusion.
McCarthy’s novel focuses on an unnamed father and son who trudge through what is possibly the bleakest future I have ever read.
The moments shared between father and son demonstrate love overtly and subtly.
In the man’s struggle to keep the darker parts of the world from his son despite their ubiquity, the reader comes to know the character of the man.
Poetic in places, very realistic in almost all ways, and it was true to human nature, both in the good and in the bad.People are scared.
It's how we deal with the fear that makes us good people or average or just plain bad.This is true at all times, of course, not just when the rubber tires on the highway have melted into the pavement.
Now I can say I've read the classic, even though it's pretty much like all the bookcases of dystopian literature I've already read.
My fellow bloggers and I have been trying to put together a post about positive father figures in books for Father's Day this year.
It almost seems like we need a post just to talk about the LACK of positive father figures in books.
Okay, that is all.Original post:This book made me ugly cry.
A very sad story of love and survival filled with poignant moments in all the bleakness.I could never make it in a world like this.
Original post:Anybody want to buddy read this with me?
