https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/23398625-kitchens-of-the-great-midwest
overall, this book was great - i loved the food writing, i loved the bake-off chapter, with its spotlight on how obnoxious modern-day foodies can be, and i even liked the inclusion of the recipes, even though they weren't the most staggeringly exotic dishes in the world.but this passage made me so hungry and jealous:The third dish, a tiny cut of venison steak, about half the size of a playing card, with tomatoes and sweet pepper jelly, was a different matter.
Warm and charming. Interesting narrative structure. At times, Eva felt a bit manic pixie dream girl. But it is really nice to see such a lovely novel about people from the Midwest. A really fine debut.
I had expected a sweet story, but the book ended up surprising me with its richness and depth.
What I liked best about this book was how each chapter was told from a different person's perspective.
The next chapter focuses on Eva as a young girl.
Future narrators are all tangentially linked to Eva, and it was fun seeing the different viewpoints.
I especially liked the description of a Lutheran church bake-off, and the story of an unusual pepper-eating contest.I am from the Midwest, and I enjoyed the references to the regional foods, including lutefisk and dessert bars.
Recommended to those who like heartwarming, foodie stories.
Kitchens of the Great Midwest (or more aptly called “Eva’s Life by Way of Briefly Mentioning Food) takes Eva Thorvald rather rapidly from a newly-orphaned babe to a Scandinavian goddess with chipped fingernail polish who has a palate for either extremely hot peppers or one able to discern individual flavors from the most simply and exquisitely prepared dish.
I grew up in the Midwest and lived in both Iowa and Minnesota so was excited to read this book.
I knew many of the place names and was able to picture the settings, but to me it wasn’t enough to save this book.
As the title implies, the novel (structured as a series of vignettes, each from the POV of a different person in the main character's life) centers around food and the Midwest, but it is not necessary to be a foodie or a midwesterner to relate to its vibrant characters.
I spent the entire novel growing to love each character, being horribly disappointed when a chapter would end and the book would switch POVs, growing to love that new character even more, then starting the cycle all over again.An absolute unmissable must-read.
Said cookbook includes an entire chapter dedicated to bars.Stradal's book isn't quite a novel, and isn't exactly a collection of short stories, but more like "snapshots" of life, with each chapter told by a different narrator.
These snapshots take place at different intervals in time, often with major gaps in time in between, but in some way involve the character Eva Torvald.
Each of the snapshots is strong, though my favorite was the one titled "Bars."Stradal does a fantastic job of capturing human character and foibles.
Thank you to NetGalley and Viking for a galley of the book in exchange for an honest review.
There are numerous characters in this book and the frustration for me is in the narration.
Each chapter is a new story - a new character, a new time period and a new event.
While the chapter's story furthers the timeline of the overall arc of the book, you are initially trying to figure out how this person figures in with Eva's life and how old Eva is now & what she might be doing at that point in her life.
Each event becomes very compelling and then the author will simply stop the chapter and that story without a resolution to the climax.
3.5 On the surface, and of course from the title it seems like this would be a book about food.
We first get to know Eva as a baby and from there each chapter is narrated by a different character and highlights a different food.
Almost more like connected narratives, than one continuing story.
Also liked that it was left somewhat open, not a typical cliched ending.
Kept, I thought with the spirit of the book.Well written, first novel about the ties that bind, the things that matter and the importance of the people who enter our lives, however fleetingly.
It’s so rare to read a novel that just makes you happy–that makes you smile at the end.
("For now, just breast milk and formula for the first three months." "That’s awful," Lars said.) The book starts and ends with food, and in the meantime, each chapter focuses on a particular family member, friend, or acquaintance in Eva’s life.
The last chapter and the final moments of the book are genius, with Eva’s story coming to an effortless (and beautifully-written) conclusion.
It’s maybe the most fun I’ve had reading this year and I’m only disappointed that the story had to end.
Oh my god I love this book.
The voice of each chapter is unique and hilarious and touching, and I am in love with Eva, the protagonist who grows and eats and cooks with incredibly hot peppers, and turns into this weird, goth, cool chef chick and more.
I don't want to give anything away, but this is one of those books that I can't believe I get to be "in on" before it hits the big time.
It's going to be a huge hit, and J.
Ryan Stradal is going to be a huge star, and it's going to be a movie some day (mark my words).
The title and cover of this book give the false impression that it will encompass a warm and maybe historical feel of the food traditions and people of the midwest.
The adults have few redeeming qualities, the college student was just so trashy (the attitude toward her pregnancy was pretty revolting too) and the food aspect of this is really weak to me.
I get no feel of "kitchens" or the "great midwest." The only connection to food I can make here is with the compost pile or the garbage disposal.
It’s so much harder to quantify, “this book gave me lots of feelings” in a way that’s more than just SQUEEEEE!!!, and I always feel a lot of pressure to moderate myself because what if people read the book because I loved it here on Goodreads and then they hate it—and thus, they hate me?
If I were to dock this book any points, it’s that a couple of the chapters stray a little too far away from Eva in their focus and so Eva never became quite as sharp a character as I really wanted her to be.
I liked this book. I didn't love it.       I'm doing the Book Pool with the BLK reading group & other than my own selections, this is the book that caught my eye. And normally I love to read about other cultures.Not this time.I just felt really alienated from all the characters in this book, other than minor character Pat Prager & her family. These characters were funny & Stradal's writing really came alive writing their story. But I didn't care about anyone else, including Eva herse
I liked this book.
And normally I love to read about other cultures.Not this time.I just felt really alienated from all the characters in this book, other than minor character Pat Prager & her family.
These characters were funny & Stradal's writing really came alive writing their story.
Stradal may have meant to make Eva look enigmatic, but he did'nt manage that.She just looked empty.
I'm glad I read the book quickly, as otherwise it would have been to hard to follow.
The link between all of the stories is Eva, who has a rough start in life when her mother abandons her as a baby and her father dies soon after from a heart attack.
The book consists of a series of interlinked stories told from the perspective of people somehow connected to Eva, starting in her childhood and running through to her adulthood.
Some of the stories are very closely connected to Eva and in others she is only referred to tangentially.
Thank you to Netgalley and the publisher for an opportunity to read Kitchens of the Great Midwest.
For me this book is just one of those that starts off great and just slowly keeps sliding downhill. I also didn't get why it even included recipes, it's like the author thought that would be cool but it doesn't add anything to the story at all. I don't want to say too much about the ending so I don't spoil anything but let's just say I thought it was bad. Kitchens of the Great Midwest has promise but could have used a strong editor to really push Stradal's story into something amazing.
But parts of the story disappointed or disgusted me, and the ending felt anticlimactic.Eva Thorvald is just a baby when her sommelier mother abandons her.
It took me a while to figure out that she is the central character due to many different threads woven into the story.When Eva is a teenager, she dates Will Prager.
Most of the music mentioned in the book is too alternative for me to recognize, but I do appreciate the shout-out to “The Distance” by Cake.My least favorite character is Eva’s cousin, Braque, who plays varsity softball at Northwestern University.
Just as your first steaming cup of coffee of the morning, sweet butter melting on freshly baked bread, a brilliant red heirloom tomato, a slice of carrot cake, and wine, great wine, are meant to be savored, so are these stories of Eva Thorvald.
Born to a woman who chose a sommelier over her and a man who cherished her more than life itself, she grew up in our great Midwest learning about fresh food and family through osmosis.
I'm craving bi-color corn and a huge juicy vine-ripened tomato picked fresh this morning, still warm from the bright sunshine so missing from this January day here near Chicago.
Quirky and courageous with an absolutely fascinating structure. A few elements of magical realism. This would be a terrific book club book. It will especially resonate with Midwesterners. (Not a romance.)
His unique structure takes what are essentially short stories from different perspectives and time periods and links them loosely through Eva Thorvald, an intriguing character who remains hard to pin down.
Yet this is “not only Eva’s story but also a gastronomic portrait of a region” (New York Times Book Review).For me the best chapter was “Bars,” but it’s not the only one in which Stradal cleverly denies the fairytale ending readers might be expecting.
What actually happens is rather different, though the time lapse between chapters means you get to fill in some of the intervening plot for yourself.
It is set where I live in and around The Twin Cities in Minnesota, it's about food and foodie culture and about people from all walks of life and how they connect in surprising and unexpected ways.
Lars Thorvald has great aspirations for his daughter, even arguing with the pediatrician about feeding her fully prepared dishes at 2 months, but her life does not play out according to expectations.
His description of the food and the preparation of the dishes made my mouth water and led me to my own kitchen to cook!I love stories about found family and found community.
However, he did not appreciate the vulgar language which was used throughout much of the book.
About 40% into the book I was considering not finishing it.
I wanted to know how Eva's life would turn out.
Also, I wanted to know if her biological mother would ever return.
This novel reads like several short stories with a common thread connecting them.
I raise this from 2.5 to 3 stars because I heard my husband chuckle and I liked the ending.**Being forced to listen to all the f***** words and such, possibly resulted in my lower rating than the rating of many friends.
4.5 Riedel wine glassesI loved this touching, quirky, delightful, original story and so appreciated it after some heavy reads.
Throughout the pages we experience her skill with ingredients as well as my personal favorite, wine.
Even the best wine in the world and Eva’s skill cannot help with that.
Favorite quote: when Eva’s father describes her mother.
My BFF Bonnie said a bottle she drank was the best wine she has ever had (she did not share it with me so maybe I should rethink the BFF status).Favorite dish: Caesar salad.
Astonishing. It is rare to find a book that meets and exceeds its pre-pub. hype. The stories are at once restrained, involving, wry, funny, and spot-on reads of both Midwest life and foodie culture. Eva is creating, making, sharing far more that great food here. She is creating and sustaining an extended family. I am hungry for more by Stradal. And I think I am going to reread this immediately. Brilliant, affecting, memorable. Read alikes? Louise Erdrich's short stories meet Ruth Reichel's memoir. Film to view after? Babbette's Feast.Wine pairings? I await Cynthia Hargreaves' suggestions.
To me, this book was overhyped. I was expecting it to be better. I'll write an actual review later, after I get all my thoughts together.
In the following excerpt from the book the down-home Lutheran Church lady character named Pat Prager is encouraged to enter her winning "peanut butter bars" into a contest in the big city sponsored by Petite Noisette, a gourmet magazine.
I happen to not share those concerns, and for me their reactions are so extreme as to be laughable.One nit-picky complaint I have with the title of this book—there is "The Great Plains" and there is "The Midwest" but there is no "The Great Midwest." That's my opinion.____________The following short review is from PageADay's Book Lover's Calendar for December 18, 2017:Avivid and fresh take on the foodie novel, Kitchens of the Great Midwest tells the story of chef Lars Thorvald, who is left to raise his daughter Eva alone after her mother falls in love with a sommelier.
I received a copy of this from the publisher through the Penguin First Reads program in exchange for an honest review.The story of Eva Thorvald, a chef with a once-in-a-lifetime palate, is told through other people in her life.
I don't know if in the final copy the publisher provides recipes but that would be a good idea (who wouldn't want to try those damn peanut butter bars?)In my reading around the USA challenge that I've been halfheartedly working on for a few years, I had never found a book set in Minnesota.
Comparisons to Olive Kitteridge are not something to be tossed around lightly, but this magical story about a star chef is worthy. Eva grows up in Minnesota with a great appreciation for food, thanks to her father, a wonderful chef who cultivates her appreciation for different tastes and textures. When she strikes out on her own, she quickly becomes the culinary star of a secret supper club. Whimsical, sensuous, and peppered with recipes, this book is a delicious treat and an amazing debut! Tune in to our weekly podcast dedicated to all things new books, All The Books: http://bookriot.com/category/all-the-...
Not that the book is unworthy, but that the joy would be diminished, IMHO.Oh, but would all such virtual abandonments have such happy endings in the real world!Nearly a 5 star for the numerous Midwestern habits and parlance of at least 5 states.
Especially within huge territories of diversity being 4 Lutherans, 2 Methodists and 1 Catholic for an average parcel of eight.Some of the sections I thought were 2.5 star to 3 star, some were absolutely 5 (like the Bar Bakery contest).
She'd never seen people who actually lived like this.
"Sometimes the kitchens that make raw food don't even have hot water."
J.Ryan’s Stradal’s writing has tremendous exuberance.This is a novel told in stories, each one self-contained and satisfying on its own.
There’s almost a sense of nostalgia and melancholy for a world long gone, but then you realize these places and people still exist.Stradal’s voice is a true original.
Stradal extracts pathos from even the most vain and self-serving of characters, rendering their self-deceptions poignant.My favourite story, “Bars,” is like something out of Flannery O’Connor, by way of Portlandia.
The bars come to represent everything that matters most in the world, almost her very soul, and the turns her story takes are as unexpected and satisfying as Flannery O’Connor.
He's just trying to do too much in this book.
This book is all over the place, with many different characters that you're supposed to like, and then you're left hanging.
all these unfinished stories, and then by just mentioning their names at the end, I'm supposed to just say, oh, it's all good - I don't need to know more, because they're here, with Eva. Eva, who we barely get to know beyond her hot pepper pre-teen years, except through glimpses, like a fan catching a moment with a celebrity.
And even completely at the end, we're still left hanging - did Eva know it was her mom?
Why would Jarl and his wife completely cover up Eva's family story?
First book by Stradal, last time I'll read him.
