https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/426206.Sea_Star

I think I liked this even better than I liked Misty, though in some ways it's similar. I think one of the things I like about it is that Maureen was more active. I mean, sure, she still had to do housekeeping type stuff, but she also got to ride bareback etc. And she even almost let the beans burn!
what was I, 8? 10? 12? .......I read this dozens of times..... an older edition with a different picture on the front but same story. Wonderful. I went back to Chincoteague in March and saw the wild horses out on Assateague Island, and walked on the beach and felt the wind in my hair and book postcards of the horses in the surf and bought Misty Of Chincoteague for my niece. It was wonderful to be back there again (last time was in 1963 and I was 6).... I really enjoyed myself.
After rereading this book I feel that it isn't any wonder why I love horses! It is a book for all ages! I still love reading it!
When I was younger a friend of mine had the first book in this series, and I had always wanted to read them.
I didn't for one moment wonder if I wouldn't enjoy them as much now.I loved every page of this story.
I loved the grandparents.
Reading about the roundup made me want to research it or read a non fiction book about it.
I'm not sure I could have done it myself.And the actual story of Sea Star was so sweet.
I really considered starting the story all over as soon as I finished, but I really hear book 3 calling my name.
I would have given this one four stars, but I hate, hate, hate the first half. Not because it's poorly written, but because selling Misty, even for all the children of the world to see, is upsetting. Still, Sea Star is pretty cute, although once again, most of the book isn't about him, but rather about Misty and selling her; Henry's writing, fortunately, makes up for most everything.
Read this one aloud to my daughter, who is a big fan of horse stories. I had read this book as a child, but honestly had forgotten most of the tale over the decades. All in all it is a nice story, and continues the Misty of Chincoteague story of the Beebe's, as Misty is sent away to become a star, and Paul and Maureen rescue an orphan foal that ends up filling some of the hole left in their hearts with Misty's departure.
A childhood favorite re-visited.Is the story as good as I remember?
– YesWhat ages would I recommend it too?
– All ages.
– Reasonable for an afternoon.Characters?
At the end, Sea Star had just been dropped off too weak to walk only hours before, it seems that at least 24 hours should have not passed, not less than five hours.Any issues the author (or a more recent publisher) should cover?
This one again has a money issue.
Also, some readers would like to know what happened to the real Paul and Maureen, even a good Internet search did not easily find anything.
I read this with my 8 yo daughter. Both of us enjoyed this story of Sea Star. There are certainly moments of heartbreak and concern but it's primarily a joyous and loving tale.
While it was still well written for children and does envelop the horse culture that is Chincoteague, the story almost seems incomplete and not very fleshed out.Its the next Pony Penning day at Chinconteague and before all the wild ponies of Assateague can be driven over to the island, Paul and Maureen are approached by some movie makers wanting to buy Misty, their pony they had gotten the year before.
I do look forward to reading some of her other books and always love a good horse story that appeals to adults and children alike.Sea StarCopyright 1949174 pages including pictures
Sea Star has become one of those books that I absolutely adored when I was a kid and now can barely tolerate now that I'm 47.
If you are going to buy this book, make sure you get one with all of the full-color and black and white illustrations as they add so much to the story.
What would they have done to Paul and/or Maureen?You're welcome for that mental picture.And also Sea Star is never mentioned in the third book in the series, Stormy, Misty's Foal.
It didn't bother me when I was a kid, but it sure does now.
These books are so wrapped up in my childhood that I see the title and remember the school library and sitting on the floor with my best friend, reading the books. I think Marguerite Henry is the source of my obsession with reading everything in a series.
The perfect book for a 12 year old girl dreaming of horses, who had yet to own her own horse.
Paul and Maureen find a baby colt that is stranded and they rescue and help to care for their new friend. A lot of work goes into caring for a baby colt and the kids have much to and think about with a lot of work ahead of them, but they enjoy it because of how much they love the colt. I liked this book the author made the story really good for readers and horse fans everywhere.
The story of two siblings who make a very unselfish choice and sell their beloved horse so their cousin can attend college. Then in the midst of their sadness, they find a foal who may just need them as much as they need.... Sea Star.
My children enjoyed the second book, but they definitely were not as drawn to it as the first one. Sea Star doesn’t appear until halfway through the book. They were anxious for his debut. The rest of his story seemed a bit rushed.
Was a very good story, though it was a little hard to read because of the old english. I loved the characters of Paul and Maureen, though. They were so caring, it was hard not to love them. Overall good book.
Another quick read. Henry is an excellent scene-setter. The descriptions are beautiful. Now I really want to visit. Quaint storry-telling from the 40s. The vocabulary was rather impressive. You only know you're reading a children's book because of the lack of a villain of any sort.
"Oh, they’re wild and woolly and full of fleas, and never been curried below the knees…"Cute book for lovers of horses or simply just lovers of Misty's world.
This is one of the books I read before I started keeping my book list. Even though it was years ago, I remember the story and how much I loved it.The date is estimate.
Such a fun read.
https://youtu.be/NALeuiv7JM4
Charming as are all the Misty of Chincoteague books!
Another enjoyable read and our second chapter book! My daughter will always love these books, just like I did!
I LOVED these books by Marguerite Henry as a pre-teen. Any girl who is horse-crazy will love them.
great tale and quick read.
I read this book as child and loved it! So excited for my daughter to read it now❤
My daughter and I loved this wonderful story. I adore how Henry gives her child characters lots of responsibility and independence. This sequel is exciting and heartwarming.
Paul and Maureen are still on Chincoteague Island, helping Grandpa and Grandma run their pony ranch.
Weirdly, the good deed quickly disappears from the story, and you're not really sure it even occurred, but then it reappears at the very end.
As a writer who has made her living writing primarily books about horses, I was surprised that Henry describes a couple of men lifting a horse into a very small propeller plane.
A couple of men would be able to lift a horse into a plane?
But, it was still an enjoyable story.
In this case the starving little type whickers his way into the children's grieving hearts, giving them something positive to work for: finding him proper nourishment.
If you enjoyed MISTY OF CHINCOTEAGUE you will love this tale as well.
Readers will relive the excitement of the roundup on Pony Penning Day, as the firemen of Chincoteague hold their annual fund raiser (capturing and selling the wild ponies of Assateague Island to Mainlanders).
Sea Star will quickly capture your interest, along with world-famous Misty.
Despite the children's noble sacfrifice for the family the story is a light, heart-warming read for kids of all ages.
