https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/31409135-the-radium-girls
The hardest part about reading this one was the depth it went into to ensure we understand just how much these women suffered and how honorable their fight was to fight those who placed them in this position and find justice.One of the most important takeaways I found though was how proud and honored this story made me feel to be a woman.
I feel like I could ramble on for days regarding this book, but if you can stomach the horror and emotion regarding this much overlooked part of our history, I think it will ensure deep reflection and cause us to question some of how we approach living our lives and what we hold important.
“I can’t laugh about those poor women who painted the clocks,” said Sarah.
About half a hundred Brockton women, most of them relatives of regular Wyatt Clock Company employees, were hired to paint the hands and numerals.
Some of them were little more than children, “records show that some were as young as eleven.” At the Ottawa, Illinois factory, they played in the radium using surplus paint on their eyelashes and lips painting.
Nine women among fourteen plaintiffs seeking compensation from Radium Dial Company for asserted permanent injury suffered as a result of poisoning contracted through work painting radium on watch dials, Feb. 11, 1938.
In a time when jobs were scarce and glamorous jobs were few and far between, landing a job with Radium Luminous Materials Corporation in Newark, New Jersey was considered a coup.
A factory job, in essence, but they referred to it as a studio, these girls were paid to paint watch dial numerals and hands with a luminous substance that made them visible in the dark.
Lip…Dip…Paint.When working in the “darkroom,” Katherine would call in workers, and could see the signs of the luminous paint on the worker, on the clothes, on the lips, on face and hands, shining.
Imagine you work with a super cool substance which glows in the dark.
A substance that some women were known to eat the paint because they enjoyed it.
Imagine going from being young and healthy to being dead in less than a week.The poor women in this book did not have to imagine any of these things because they lived this.
This book is about the young women who wanted to do their part to help the war effort during World War I.
The dental problems were only the beginning.The women began to die horribly painful deaths.
What a gut-wrenching read...and fight...for truth and justice!We start with a short eerie prologue from 1901, and soon see the chilling....never to be forgotten phrase: Lip...Dip...Paint - - - Such frightening words!THE RADIUM GIRLS is a truly shocking non-fiction read about women in the 1920's who were hired to paint watch dials with a luminous and deadly substance.
Recommend checking out some of the old "glowing" advertisements, and the story behind THE RADIUM GIRLS bronze statue erected in Ottawa, Illinois.
One of the elements radium was used to paint watch dials as well as in many beauty and health products marketed to the masses.
Eventually when the effects started to show the women had trouble finding out what caused their sickness and then trying to get the companies to acknowledge and help them pay the medical bills pilling up.
I can't believe they went to all those lengths instead of just doing the right thing to begin with, especially because it seems like it honestly would have been cheaper to just help the girls with their medical bills.
What seemed like a fun, good paying job, especially for the times turns into an epic nightmare of pain and suffering for the girls who worked with radium, hand painting dials.
I think probably if you read it will depend on what you are looking for, and once again I found a blurb misleading.
The skipping around between the plants, the two locations was a bit disruptive and confusing at times.
I expected a more straightforward narrative, an intimate narrative account,and that is not this book, though I am very glad I read it.
Update!!! Interview with the author can now be found here: http://avalinahsbooks.space/interview...They were called  The Girls With Radioactive Bones. There were newspaper headlines such as  '  Living Dead' Win In Court'  about them.And all that – almost  a hundred years ago. I'm going to tell you a very painful, sad, but strong story of fighting for your rights, for justice, for your honor even. So let's start.If there was ever a time that I wanted to believe the Christian  hell with burning pi
I'm going to tell you a very painful, sad, but strong story of fighting for your rights, for justice, for your honor even.
You can sell other people's lives.
And especially as women (if you, reader, are one), you have a lot to thank these girls for.I could say so much about this story.
I will be publishing it in the coming two weeks, most likely, and you are very welcome to hear the story of how this book came to be.
If you feel for these girls and their story, please share my post.
We must make stories like this heard.
I found this book very different from anything I've ever read previously.
It evoked such emotion with the details it revealed throughout and was both highly readable and thrilling.
These women deserve to be recognised for the huge sacrifices they made, all they asked was the same as most of us do now - a steady job with money coming in, yet, what they got turned into something else entirely.
This is an important book with regards to workplace reform but also will be of interest to those in medical and science fields or with interest in them.
All the stars for this well researched nonfiction that is just infused with emotion.
Kate Moore writes in such a manner that I quickly became immersed in the stories of the American women in the 1920's and 1930's that were exposed to radium poisoning.
What these women and their families went through to have the truth heard in the courts and in the country!
I felt so furious at the company that refused for so long to admit their wrongdoing.
Imagine implying that all these women had died of "Cupid's disease" aka syphilis.
A definite must read on the 2017 TBR list.
Well this was a rough read!At around 1h into the audiobook all I could think was... this woman just got a piece of her jaw literally fall, this can get any worse... and it did.I don't recommend the audiobook. The narrator did a great job but they didn't edit her swallowing half the time and it got annoying sadly!*As I often do with non fiction... I don't feel comfortable giving a rating to this book.
It is amazing, what the emotional impact of such a simple thing like reading a book can do to the mind.
I was crying for the women and their families, I was crying as I learned justice was finally served and mostly, I was crying because I feel so fortunate, that because of these brave, powerful women, that we know more about radium and it's dangers today.I've had to sleep on this, before writing any words about it.
Nothing like this book, anyway.
What I really do appreciate about this book, is the women were fighting for justice at a time, when women were seen as the second sex.
Kate Moore’s well-researched true story tells us of the lives of the “shining girls” condersided the luckiest girls alive to have found the most coveted jobs using the “wonder” substance radium to paint dials.
Moore doesn’t shy away from the vivid details of the agonizing deaths and suffering the women went through and it’s not for the faint hearted.
I think that might be me as I found the torment they went through relentless and their agonizing suffering and the deaths after deaths started to become too overwhelming for me.
Over and over, thousands of times a day.With WWI in full swing, the demand for radium dials and watches was booming; the company paid an attractive wage and employed as many as 375 girls at the peak of business.
And a spinoff of the original Radium Dial company carried on business until 1978 under the name of Luminous Processes, and when workers there noticed a high incidence of breast cancer, the company denied its culpability.
Thank you for bringing these women's stories to life in these pages.Notes: It was a pleasure to meet author Kate Moore at a program she gave for Seneca Public Library, Seneca, IL on March 19, 2018.
I REALLY did not like this. I got so angry reading this because the writing bugged me SO much that I may be somewhat unkind in this review, and I feel bad about that, because I think this is a worthwhile book and Moore's heart was in the right place when she wrote it. But ... Moore's writing style really bugged me. Because, in a book about children and young people working in factories and being poisoned by radium, the last thing I care about is how pretty they were.  [Katherine Schaub] was an a
I got so angry reading this because the writing bugged me SO much that I may be somewhat unkind in this review, and I feel bad about that, because I think this is a worthwhile book and Moore's heart was in the right place when she wrote it.
Because, in a book about children and young people working in factories and being poisoned by radium, the last thing I care about is how pretty they were.
I kept reading, I just did my best to skip over all the rest of the detailed appearance descriptions.The writing was perhaps more appropriate to an American Girl novel:
It had totally foxed their doctors.
It took years of fighting and public outcry for life-saving regulations to be put in place to protect workers from this scale of work related injury and blatant disregard for employee health and safety.
When dentists starting noticing multiple women with crumbling jaw bones and chronic mouth infections, it took years for the cause to be traced back to radium.
The women, injured by exposure to Radium, had to fight to have their story heard, and it led to work place safety regulations to prevent similar exposure to future workers.
Here's another nonfiction book that reads as quickly and easily as a mystery.
After a quick prologue about the Curies, the book begins in earnest in 1917 at the watch dial painting factory.
Schooling beyond the elementary grades wasn't something the working classes could afford.
The book gives a great account not only of the limits of science, but also the limits and willingness of government agencies to pursue employee safety.
These women were repeatedly told lies and dealt with coverups.
And it wasn't just their problems.
But there is a heartwarming aspect to the book as well.
A well told story and one that I strongly recommend.
It made me cry for the greed that men, doctors and lawyers showed for these girls to let them suffer so while knowing the dangers of the substance they were working with.
However, Ms Moore, in telling their stories, did an excellent job of portraying for us the real pain, the real courage, and the real people, young girls really, who were a part of this company whose job it was to paint radium infused paint unto clocks and watches.
It is well worth the time one has to read this remarkable book written about remarkable women who did give their lives in such awful and painful ways.
I had never read anything about the tragedy that consumed a large number of young women working with radium, painting dials on clocks and other instrument panels.In the beginning radium was actually being hailed as a “health wonder” but it was soon discovered by many of the scientists working with radium that it could indeed be very dangerous.
The manufacturer’s deliberately withheld the information about the danger of this method of painting even when there were girls already having terrible side effects from the radium.
I had never heard of the radium girls I had seen the glowing green dials of clocks when I was a girl.
I never knew that was radium making it glow.
I also had no clue that girls, teenage girls had risked and lost their lives painting the numbers with a radium based paste to provide that glow.
This is one of those stories that shines the light in greed and calculating big business owners.
Now everyone should read their story.
Netgalley allowed me to find this book and read it in exchange for my review.
The Radium Girls: The Dark Story of America’s Shining Women by Kate Moore is a 2017 Sourcebooks publication.
The practice of ‘dip, lip, paint’, which was encouraged by the factory, to prevent waste, and to give the brush a sharper point, but exposed the women, who painted luminous dials on watches, with deadly radium.
Five women in particular stood out, as they battled what was termed ‘occupational diseases’, taking their case to court, but there were many more.
But, the author really excelled at bringing these women to life, giving them a voice, so to speak.
At the time, the dangers of fissionable elements was unknown, and - in fact - radium was touted as a boon to good looks and good health.After the war - in the 1920s - large factories sprang up to feed the growing demand for the gauges, watches, and 'wellness products' containing radium.
As a result, several years after they started working at the watch factories, the 'radium girls' began to fall ill, exhibiting some of the most horrendous symptoms imaginable.
In fact, company honchos out and out lied, advertising radium as healthful....'it'll put roses in your cheeks.' "The Radium Girls" focuses on several young women who fought back against the watch companies, suing for compensation and medical bills.
"I wanted to showcase their shining spirits in a book that would tell their story – not just the story of the famous professionals who had helped them."The Radium Girls by Kate Moore is a powerful and heart-breaking story about young girls who worked in radium-dial painting factories in the early 1900's where they painted luminous dials on watches and clocks.
Soon it would be discovered by many of the scientists working with radium that it could indeed be very dangerous."What radium means to us today is a great romance in itself.
The writing style of the author was exquisite, but I did not love the tone of the woman who read it.
I loved hearing her author's note at the end, and why she chose to write this book, and I truly believe that is why writers were given their gifts!
On another note, this story makes me question so many things around us.
People have the tendency to trust authority way too much, and had not some things been questioned in this case, they would have gotten away with their deceit much longer.
In the teens and 1920's one of the best jobs a young woman could get involved an exciting and new substance called Radium.
These Radium Girls came from low income families and felt lucky to have these jobs.
Once these women started becoming sick and dying these Radium companies hired doctors to lie to the public and reaffirm the safety of Radium.
These Radium Girls were warriors and because of them we are all safer.
Because of the Radium Girls The Occupational Safety and Health Administration was established.
The Radium Girls is a story of profits over people.
This somber story chronicles the lives of the Radium Girls, female factory workers exposed to large quantities of radium by the men who assured them that it was harmless. Trying to get the factory to take full responsibility, this women's fight for justice was wracked with scandal, denial and cover-ups, but it's ultimately a story of hope and power reclaimed.
If you'd like to participate in the discussion here is the link: https://www.goodreads.com/topic/show/...This book was fantastic.
There has never been any mention of the factors when learning about World War 1.
I was extremely impressed and hope to read more of her work."The Curies' newly discovered element of radium makes gleaming headlines across the nation as the fresh face of beauty, and wonder drug of the medical community.
From body lotion to tonic water, the popular new element shines bright in the otherwise dark years of the First World War.Meanwhile, hundreds of girls toil amidst the glowing dust of the radium-dial factories.
4.5 Shining Stars.Glorious one as the Victory of The Radium Girls !
Writing was different and highly enthusiastic , lovely piece of description by Author.Highly recommended to Genuine Readers.Emotions were on Zenith as the Part 2 began throughout the book !
! *Radium is a very rare and most catastrophic element esp.
when it comes to use without precaution in Industrial task.It's delicacy has shown in this book.It was complete book with twist and turned of whole matter.I had enjoyed it !Even though, Justice had taken time about 13 years for those girls.
! !I'll add quote of book soon in my review.
A painful and important read about the young women who suffered at the hands of the radium industry before fighting for their rights and for justice.
She focused on the resilience of these women in the face of overwhelming pain and resistance from industrial forces.
While perhaps beyond the scope of The Radium Girls, it is heartbreaking to think about how this still happens to so many women and people of color today, especially to those who are abroad, who are often invisible to us in the United States and other privileged locations.Overall, a long yet worthwhile book.
Although, as a scientist myself who has worked with radioisotopes, I had heard of the women workers who died as a result of painting radium on clock and instrument dials in the 1920s, I wasn't prepared for the sheer horror of the story that unfolds in this book.
It wasn't just the naivety of the girls and their bosses with regard to the dangers of radium that shocked me but the way the corporations lied to the girls when the dangers were recognised and women were dying tragic and painful deaths at a young age.Discovered in 1898 by the Curies, radium was hailed as a great cure for shrinking tumours and was thought to be beneficial for health and vitality.
