https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/22501028-a-spool-of-blue-thread
The title of this book is well represented....think about a spool of thread. It just unwinds and unwinds, there are no highs or lows. When reading A Spool of Blue Thread I kept waiting for the climax, but it never came....it just unwound and unwound. Yes, there were a few minor surprises, but not enough to save this book. This is a great example of a popular author, dynamic publisher's marketing campaign and an attractive cover all working together to create a great deal of noise around a mediocre book.
"The trouble with dying," she'd told Jeannie once, "is that you don't get to see how everything turns out. You won't know the ending." This book was lovely. That's how I would describe it. I'm not going to sell it as anything it isn't - fans of fast-paced action and fantasy should look elsewhere - because this is a quiet, moving family drama; nothing more or less. And yet, that was more than enough to make this one of my favourite, beautifully-written character studies.Sometimes there are those
Anne Tyler is apparently one of those authors who can take such a simplistic story of family life and breathe so much humanity into her characters that the everyday becomes compelling.This is a book about the Whitshank family - several generations of it.
The relationships, the rivalries and the love all intertwine in this story that combines insights into the Whitshank family history and their modern lives.Books such as this one are often called "slow", but I didn't find it slow at all.
I think if you pick this book up knowing what to expect and are ready to read a story about people and family, then you should be swept along by these fascinating characters.
You get introduced to the characters, take up residence with them in their Baltimore neighborhoods, watch them muddle through their challenges and triumphs, and inevitably, feel as if you’re saying a fond farewell to family members when you close the last page.That’s the beauty of Anne Tyler’s writing.
But then when he was grown she had asked him and he had said, “I don’t know, to be honest.” It all rings so true.I’ve said little about the plot and that’s deliberate: it’s up to every reader to discover all the nuances of this family and what drives them forward.
Anne Tyler has said this will be her last book and all I can say is, “Say it’s not so.”
The characters in “A Spool of Blue Thread” look like the same Baltimore family members we’ve socialized with for 50 years in Anne Tyler’s fiction.
The tightly wound humor and tragedy of her stories, delivered in prose that never draws attention to its graceful wit, demonstrate that every unremarkable family, wrapped in proud insularity, is special.“A Spool of Blue Thread” introduces us to Red and Abby Whitshank, the parents of three successful, happily married children who have dutifully remained in their parents’ orbit.
I will be honest and say I did not finish this book. If it takes more than 100 pages for me to get interested it just is not worth the read. The characters were one dimensional and I felt like the story was not going anywhere. It might have eventually but there is to much for me to read to wait.
I own 6 -not yet read paperback books ( thrift book specials or freebies ), by Ann Tyler, yet "A Spool of Blue Thread" is my very first novel I've read by this wonderful woman.
From that one 'amazing' article I fell in love with this woman ( author or not), I 'felt' her truth, her exquisite beauty, ( she glows from being real....inside and out), she tapped into my ownwisdom, expanded my perception, and is a woman who listens for understanding....and chooses love.
My review for "A Spool of Blue Thread"......
3.5 Stars This novel left me with mixed emotions.....I liked the well-defined kooky characters.I liked their descriptively inviting (well built) home.I liked the surprising turn of events in the second half...andI liked the significance of the Spool of Blue Thread. But... I did not care for the abrupt transitions in time.I would have liked a faster pace in the storytelling.I really wanted to know more about Denny's mysterious life.....andI would have liked a resolution to my many unanswered ques

Her husband, Red, is going deaf, and some family members think the parents shouldn't be left alone.I liked how the story unfolded — it opened in 1994 with a strange phone call from one of the children, and then progresses through the years, skipping ahead when necessary and showing different points of view.
Halfway through the book, it jumps back in time and shows Abby as a young woman, on the day she fell in love with Red. We also meet Red's parents, and learn how they get together.This is a lovely, poignant story, and it reminded me why I like Anne Tyler books so much.
Built by Red's father for someone else it became his in a questionable way.Funny how many of the stories told within a family and passed down may often not be the whole truth.
That is the brilliance of Anne Tyler, she knows all these things about people and more importantly she knows how to write about them, making what many of us can identify in our own lives and families, oh so interesting.If this is in fact her last novel, I for one will surely miss her wonderful stories.ARc from publisher.

They were not outstanding; they did not change the world; but they were the epicenter of what it means to be American.The story is not linear, and the surprise, or rather mystery, of the family's origin, is delivered in the last part of the book.
What I take away is that we can all forgive ourselves for being ordinary and yet, and yet, have a story to tell that will not rock this world, but will at least explain what it means to be human in our lifetime and feeling totally okay with it.
Certainly a great book to recommend.
I will most certainly read this author again.
We all have them don’t we, that dish we turn to when feeling blue or just wanting to revel in hearth and home.
It is a story about family, four generations of Whitshank’s and their Baltimore home with its grand and sprawling, full-length front porch.
As we enter this story it is a late July evening and Red and Abby who occupy the house on Bouton Road are preparing to turn in for the evening when they receive a phone call from their son Denny.
Denny is the best looking of Red and Abby’s four children and the one that has caused Abby the greatest amount of worry.
observando-lhes cada gesto:Veremos o braço de Red esticar-se para desligar o candeeiro de cabeceira; Abby apertar vigorosamente o cinto do robe rosa-gasto; ouvir o clique que corta a conversa telefónica de Denny com o pai....Iremos conhecê-los, compreendê-los, amá-los!Abby, Red, Amanda, Jeannie, Denny, Stem são humanos como nós.
E é quase certo que iremos, dalguma forma, rever-nos neles!"O Carrinho de Linha Azul" é uma estória sobre Nós os Humanos.
It was my first book by Anne Tyler, and it was one of those books that makes me want to immediately go out and get all of her other books.
Anne Tyler has structured the storyline in a very interesting manner - she definitely knows how to master the plot in the best way.Furthermore, Anne Tyler's writing is beautiful!
Now my only worry is where I'm going to start now with Anne Tyler and her other novels, because this one has left me eager to know more about her stories, her ideas and her impeccable writing.
Nuances such as the matriarch thinking her family are quite perfect and having to uphold appearances of the same were interesting.
Are families perfect as they appear to be, is there any part of perfect at all?
Stories of the oldest generation ending up married after a scandal - what a vixen - and younger generations being a bit screwed up and not knowing what life holds.
Lucky them!As always, the audio concept usually creates some loss of certain parts of the story line, but that is part and parcel of this format [for me].
Anne Tyler has done here what she does best , describing perfectly these less than perfect , very ordinary people with their quirks , dramas , secrets and resentments as well as their love for each other .
Who doesn't know what sibling resentments from the past can do to these relationships when the children become adults ?Abby is a quirky , retired social worker who is kind to the needy people she meets but doesn't always get what is happening with her four grown children .
I wanted to get back to what was happening in Red's and Abby's family .
Don't you just love to come home from work, slip into your favorite pair of sweats and a teeshirt, and settle into your comfy chair for the evening? This is the feeling I get when reading an Anne Tyler novel. Coming home would be the operative phrase. Pure pleasure.The inner-workings of a family, the intricate meshing and chafing of grown siblings with leftover feelings from when they were young. It all comes through here. It's a quiet tale, well told.
And wow, what a fantastic reading experience!I went the audiobook route for this one, and it was definitely worth it.
She takes on each character with such a distinct tone and with great inflection, but it’s not gimmicky or ridiculous voice acting.
It still seems really natural while maintaining the distinction among characters.Conceptually, the story is very interesting.
Then the mid-section was a tad bit lackluster, but because Anne Tyler writes the characters in such a dynamic way, their average American lives took on a sort of cinematic drama.
I’m really interested in reading more Anne Tyler works now, if her other novels are anything like this one.
I always enjoy Anne Tyler's books and this was no exception.
As usual she takes us into the lives of an extended family and with very little story but lots of conversation makes the characters into people we know well and are happy to share time with.
The pace of the book is slow but infinitely rich in detail and information about the family member's relationships and experiences.
I found myself as keen to get back to reading it as I ever am with a fast paced action thriller!
The author says this will be her last book.
When you finish a book in the early hours of the morning and suddenly start crying you know it's a good one! This just touched my heart in so many ways.  "And time... Well you know about time. How slow it is when you're little and how it speeds up faster and faster once you're grown. Well now it's just a blur. I can't keep track of it anymore! But it's like time is sort of balanced. We're young for such a small fraction of our lives, and yet our youth seems to stretch on forever. Then we're old
A Spool of Blue Thread is a a richly woven tapestry of family life with the focus falling at different times on all the generations: grandparents, parents, children.
This is a book about one such family called the Whitshanks who are each other's loved ones.
I loved the layout; the way the story of the family moving backwards in time was slowly unfurled to the reader.
A story that held my attention from start through to the finish and one that made me weep a little at the end because of the simple beauty of what family truly means.
The characterizations are excellent; anyone wishing to build a story with believable, tangible characters – or believable, realistic dialogue - would do well to study Anne Tyler.
I agree that there is little narrative conflict in the traditional sense, but there is plot; it’s the kind of plot that sometimes exists in families, though I have to say that my own (as far as I know) wouldn’t be able to boast of any scandals or secrets like the ones lurking beneath the apple-pie surface of the Whitshanks.
So maybe all families do have secrets or scandals.
I'd rate this 3.5 stars.I've been a fan of Anne Tyler for many, many years. In my opinion, there are few authors who can consistently weave compelling, moving stories about both the seemingly mundane and the more dramatic moments families experience.Apparently Tyler has said that  A Spool of Blue Thread , her 20th novel, will be her last. I tried not to let that fact influence my expectations or color my perceptions of the book.Abby Whitshank has known her husband Red for as long as she can reme
But after a series of health problems affect the two of them, their younger son Stem (aka Douglas), his wife, and his family move back into the house with Red and Abby, ostensibly to help take care of them, which doesn't sit too well with either of them.
It's also a bit of a multi-generational love story, as the book not only looks at Abby and Red's relationship both at the start and in the present, but also looks at the relationship of Red's parents, Junior and Linnie Mae.I have always loved Tyler's writing, and her use of language and storytelling is in fine form once again.
Anne Tyler writes about families and marriage so well that I always close her books thinking how "real" her characters are.
"A Spool of Blue Thread" is a multi-generational story about a Baltimore family whose patriarch had roots in a poor, rural town.
The Baltimore home almost becomes another character in the story.His son, Red Whitshank, married Abby and raised four children.
Now in their 70s, they are having health problems and their children get involved helping them.
The Whitshanks are an ordinary family experiencing both conflict and togetherness.
I enjoyed Anne Tyler's storytelling, humor, and quirky characters in this domestic tale.
This is my first experience reading Anne Tyler--which somehow seems unbelievable (though I remember enjoying the film of Accidental Tourist)--and I enjoyed it a lot.Every family is it's own self, has its own identity, and that is certainly true of the Whitshanks.
Many families have odd ball members, lone wolves like Denny.
Many have artsy, interfering mothers like Abby or single-minded fathers like Red. But the level of secrets between and among generations are what make the dynamics of this family and story so interesting for me.
There is an old saying that nothing brings out family issues like weddings and funerals.
I'm very glad I made the acquaintance of the Whitshank family and Anne Tyler.
I found Abby and Red's daughters not as delineated as their sons, but the two young women do marry men with the same first name, so perhaps that's intentional.Nearing the end of the aforementioned Part One, Rohinton Mistry's Family Matters popped into my head.
Even without those details, I think we'd arrived at much understanding already, though I especially liked the nuanced portrait of Linnie Mae that is not at all available to the younger generation.As far as the title goes, I spotted a throwaway reference to it near the end of the first part, so for the rest of the book, even into the short Part Three, I kept an eye out for its reappearance.
I didn't know this at the time of reading, but apparently this is Anne Tyler's last novel.I think she struggled with this book.
That's how it felt when I read it, so I am not surprised to hear this is her last.I  absolutely adore Anne Tyler.
In many ways it was typical Anne Tyler, (she herself has said she's written the same book over and over) but it just fell flat.I know other people say exactly the same thing about the books I love, so there you have it.I'm perfectly willing to admit that it's me and not her.Go, Anne!
I haven't much to say about this. It's typical Tyler. It shows that she is still very much in charge of the "family saga" genre that she pioneered over fifty years ago. The first part is clearly where the life of this novel lays, the second half wobbles slightly. Anne Tyler is the literary equivalent of easy listening music.
The book unrolls backwards in time, starting in 2012, when Abby and Red Whitshank are in their 70s with adult kids and grandchildren.
The dialogs will make you laugh!After the first section, the book goes backwards in time; the reader learns of Red and Abby's parents, and also how Abby and Red first met.
At the book's close you will know the parents and grandparents and grandchildren.
I did have trouble when the story switched to Abby and Red's parents.
Kind of confusing, at least for me.I recommend grabbing this book and reading it, particularly if you have elderly parents.
My sole previous brush with Tyler was Back When We Were Grownups in an edition with that generic back-of-a-woman's-head cover picture that suggests to me that even the publishers didn't know how to give it spice, certainly nothing remains of it except a chaotic family picnic.
A bit like your kindly maiden aunt taking you out for tea at Jenner's.
It gave me a break from myself (and I needed it) in Baltimore with the Whitshank family, a convenient wee outing and greatly appreciated, thank you kindly.
And a couple of dogs.
An old couple, growing older.
The first half of the book deals merely with the most recent generation, and the further into the novel we go, more is revealed about the family's past.
Essentially, even the most seemingly normal, mundane families have their dark secrets.I think what made me struggle with this book a little was the fact it was almost entirely dialogue.
I don't mind dialogue, but I also like description, and I felt the book was severely lacking in this.
However, I like my books with a little more darkness and a little more plot, and I just didn't think this delivered on that front.
