https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/76906.The_Dead_of_Jericho
What characters!This is the fifth book in the Inspector Morse series by Colin Dexter, but you can read it as a standalone novel.Our protagonist, Inspector Morse meets a young, attractive woman, Anne Scott at a party and gets attracted to her.
He could not meet Anne, and on the very same day our good inspector learns about her suicide.Using his guile and subterfuge, Morse would bend the protocols to carry out his private investigation into the matter.
Morse’s behavior towards the sergeant can be very mean at times, but Lewis is the man Morse wants to work with.
Morse explains to Lewis the story of Oedipus, who unknowingly murdered his father Laius and married his own mother Jocasta.
Lewis and Morse have developed a mutual admiration for each other in this novel.
(There is rather a nice episode where Morse is doing "The Times" Crossword in one room, whereas further down the corridor at the same time, Lewis is completing a far easier puzzle.) And we have a voyeuristic enjoyment from watching the sparks fly between these two.Dexter has again structured this novel into four "books", and the chapters within each are preceded by a quotation - usually a literary one.
One night at a party, Chief Inspector Morse of the Oxford Homicide Division meets an attractive resident of Jericho named Anne Scott.
Then one of Anne's neighbors is murdered and Morse is charged with leading an investigation into the mysterious deaths of Jericho.This is another very good entry in the Inspector Morse series, even though the reader does have to get beyond the unbelievable coincidence of the fact that Anne Scott dies on the very day that Morse finally decides to come visiting.
Well I give this book three stars, but just barely.First off, Inspector Morse, the MC and so-called problem-solver genius in this book cannot even come close to comparing with four of my favorite investigators: Reginald Wexford, in the series by Ruth Rendell, is honest, scrupulous, sometimes overbearing but always polite and respectful to his subordinates.
Inspector Morse isn’t.Richard Jury, in the Martha Grimes series, is smart, sharp, urbane and well-educated.
Inspector Morse isn’t.
(And incidentally, what really happened with regard to the woman and her neighbor is so convoluted and strange and ‘forced’ that I can barely believe most mystery-readers would buy it.)The story is also written from a POV where things are ‘hidden’ from the reader.
Se Morse sentisse parlare di affetto nei suoi confronti direbbe una frase molto antipatica per distruggere immediatamente l'insicuro ammiratore.
A meno che costui, come il suo sergente Lewis, non avesse la prontezza di controbattere: "all'affetto non si comanda, signore, nonostante sia così male indirizzato verso una persona odiosa come lei".Questo è tutto.
La bravura di Dexter sta proprio qui: nel riuscire ad avvincerti alle sue storie gialle nonostante la natura scostante del suo personaggio.Questa volta il plot è al limite della credibilità, ma tant'è: viva l'ispettore Morse ( e il sergente Lewis, naturalmente!)
It's the first Morse novel for me, and at first I was a little taken aback by the rapid progression of events, but once I embraced it it had all the twists and turns and mistaken identities and illicit relationships and gossip and rumours one could possibly wish from an English mystery novel. I took it with me on holiday, and it was pretty much the perfect read for those circumstances.
Fantastic endings.And so we come to "The dead Of Jericho".
And yet...his observations of already thoroughly examined crime scenes are far superior to those above him in the Thames Valley Police.I started to miss the fellowship of sorts between Morse and Lewis when finally ...Lewis enters the picture.The Dead of Jericho begins with Morse meeting a lovely younger woman, Anne Scott, during a party.
Can I compare Inspector Morse and Lewis to any other mystery series.
Whether you read the series in order or just pick one out at random...you can't miss with Inspector Morse.
Morse number 5.This is a solid offering from Dexter.
Morse is descending further into grumpiness and alcohol while Lewis is putting up with him and not getting much of the credit.The plot follows a suicide and a murder.
Neither are straightforward and Morse ends up following false leads here and there as usual.
I'm finding the characters of Morse and Lewis are rounding out nicely and appear almost verbal - you can 'hear' them speaking at times - my problem is beginning to be around the resolutions.
I wanted to be more surprised by the ending.
"The Dead of Jericho" is the fifth novel in Colin Dexter’s Oxford-set detective series and was the first of a highly successful series of television adaptations of the novels.
Bell and Walters--with some hints from Morse--find that the local handyman had a key to Miss Scott's, that she tutored students in German, that she had attended bridge club occasionally, and that she had previously worked for a small publishing firm run by a pair of brothers.
And the women comprising the bridge club as well as the wife of one of the publishing brothers are somehow keys to the death of Anne Scott and the murder that followed.
Anne Scott is found dead in Canal Street, Jericho.
It’s initially not really Inspector Morse's case, but he is indirectly involved because he happens to have visited the scene of death.
He returns again to Canal Street following the discovery of Anne’s suicide and starts poking around looking for answers.
There is more tragedy at Canal Street with drugs and more death.
Morse is handed the case and he has Lewis to assist him – to get to the bottom of it all.
Morse is more mature than in the previous books, more dignified but just as grumpy.
Because there's always so much going on, even when it seems like nothing is happening, it all suddenly comes together.No so much time was spent setting up the initial crime, as it was in previous books and Morse is involved from page one.
Inspector Morse meets an attractive woman at a party and his hopes are raised, but he quickly figures out that the woman is unavailable and so lets it go.
A few months later he learns of her suicide and takes over the investigation, as he still wonders what might have been with this woman.
Morse and Sergeant Lewis find that her death was far from a typical suicide and that her copy of Oedipus was very important to her.This was my first Inspector Morse and I like him.
He's a grumpy, snapping alcoholic who basically hates himself but he's very likable to the reader.
I really enjoyed reading this.
Ah, Inspector Morse - he's a little eccentric, sometimes a womanizer, he drinks too much & his crime-solving brilliance does not really endear him to the rest of the force - he's a great character.
I loved it when he likened solving the mystery to doing a "paint-by-numbers" - you can't really see the big picture until some of the details are filled in.
I didn't guess the twist at the end of the book, so it was a nice surprise.
A well-written mystery - I had only read one other Colin Dexter book (The Jewel That Was Ours) but I will look for more!
British sense of humour.In ogni pagina (anche brava la traduttrice).Questo vecchio signore (nato nel 1930) gioca con noi ed un po' ci prende in giro. Una cosa sola da dire dei suoi polizieschi:eccezionali.
morse meets anne scott at a party.
6 months later he turns up at her address on a whim - ok, a sexual urge!
then he is assigned it many weeks later but by then another body has turned up and a boy connected to anne is in hospital suffering from an overdose of course the past comes back to haunt the present and it is up to morse to piece together the puzzle great characterisation and prose which u expect from this author - though a few grammatical errors savour and enjoy bev
But since this is Inspector Morris' favorite pass time, he is collecting the smallest of details while he ignores the obvious clues in the death of Anne Scott, unless he discovered the evidence himself.
Thankfully Sergeant Lewis remains calm, steady and sober even when Morris gets frustrated, angry, and curmudgeonly over his impatience of not solving the crime fast enough.
However, Morris knows himself and is aware that some of his best thinking is over a couple of pints of bitters with Lewis.
My epigraph for this summary ..."The fool doth think he is wise,  but the wise man knows himself to be a fool." Shakespeare
A perfectly fine mystery.
If you’ve ever read a Colin Dexter book before then you should already know what to expect here.
I’m not convinced that he’s on a par with Sherlock Holmes or Hercule Poirot, but he is still a lot of fun to read.
Especially if you’re working on a crime novel of your own, like I am.In this book, Morse and Lewis get up to their usual tricks, investigating a murder in Oxford.
That said, the victims of a crime novel never seem to stick out to me – it’s usually the living that you remember.
This is the third in the Inspector Morse series I've read and continue to like the series more and more.
I'm so glad I did.This one has the many layers that the other books do of what seems like a simple story.
As Inspector Morse gets on the trail, and soon to be many trails, to solve the mystery he finds deadends, misdirections and so much more that makes this book so much fun.
Really like how Morse and all make mistakes.
The deadends and the like are far better than explosions and mass gun fire found in so many other books.Bottom line: I recommend this book.
I confess, the title of The Dead of Jericho is what lures me back to this favourite Colin Dexter novel.
Of course, it is a murder mystery, but the Morse books are never primarily about the plot.Jericho, in the book, is an older Oxford neighbourhood of row houses slightly off the main thoroughfare and now home to a mix of elderly, working poor, and artsy young.
To respectable people like Chief Inspector Morse, Jericho is apparently a place where they can be anonymous; not exactly slumming, but certainly private.
It is from this fertile soil that the story grows.
I read The Dead of Jericho last night, book 5 in Colin Dexter’s Morse series.
I love Morse, as bull headed and antagonistic, as he is, there is just something about him that I really enjoy in these books.
The Jericho in the title refers to an area of Oxford, in which the murder(s) takes place.
Morse finds himself somewhat personally involved with this murder investigation because he knew the victim and had in fact been recently to the house.
Another good outing in the Morse series, which is on my shortlist of series to finish this year.
I really liked the development of the relationship between Morse and Lewis in this book.
There were already a few paragraphs in the earlier books but it was never that much.
Here we finally get a bit more.
A lot of it is shouting at the other (Morse) or secretly wishing the other in hell (Lewis) but there are also some really touching scenes where they (in private) acknowledge that they do like and care about each other.
Apart from that the puzzle was again amazing.
Oversexed and perennially unlucky in love, Inspector Morse meets a woman who actually (and surprisingly to me) wants to sleep with him…and he lets her slip through his fingers. Much to Morse’ regret, his next encounter with the lady is in a professional capacity, namely, a murder investigation; or was it a suicide? As usual, Morse, tries out a variety of hypotheses that fit some of the known facts until he finally lands on the right combination and solves the case. As always, the dogged (and refreshingly happily married) Sergeant Lewis is at his side.
In this 5th book of the Inspector Morse series, Morse has finally matured into the character I remember and liked so well in the PBS/BBC series. Morse is still capable of being obstinately wrong, but he is quicker to explore other possibilities and to recognize Lewis's worth.As for the plot, although it contained plenty of twists, it never seemed convoluted or obscure the way the plot of the previous book, Service of All the Dead, did. Dexter has hit his stride and I look forward to reading the next book.
The tropes that make a character like Morse familiar in a television series (forcing Lewis to pay for rounds of drinks, drinking itself, failure to pick up on potential relationships) feel tired in this, only the fifth in the series of Dexter's Morse novels.And the missed opportunities are pointed out so often that you can only wonder how Morse manages to retain his reputation for brilliance, especially given his diet of beer and whisky. Two and a half stars, rounded up to three.
The mood of this is melancholy. Morse leads a life of missed opportunities, as does Ann Scott, the first to die in this novel. But Dexter doesn't wallow in pity. He writes about Scott with compassion, and about Morse in the tolerant way men talk about their lifelong friends. It's clever and rich with many strands of plot.
Non delude, Morse è sempre il solito, molto umano, con tanti difetti, ma un investigatore coi fiocchi. E' davvero bello leggere un poliziesco così lontano dal filone 'polizia scientifica' che impazza negli ultimi anni alla tv, un giallo tutto giocato sui vizi umani, debolezze, virtù, di vittime, colpevoli, ed investigatori.
Another love interest for Chief Inspector Morse which leads him into a case being investigated by the City Police. It moves along well with some interesting descriptive details of Oxford. Inevitably there is a Morse theory that leads them off track. Murder, blackmail and womanising makes a good murder mystery. Is the Oedipus relevant?
a slightly above average Morse...although Lewis doesn't appear until halfway through.
