https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/9566.Still_Life_with_Woodpecker
I had three children and felt completely trapped in a dangerously toxic, dead-end relationship that I saw no way out of.
But I would pick the book back up, following the adventures of Princess Leigh-Cherie and the outlaw Bernard Mickey Wrangle as they figure out a way to make love stay.
And I swear that in reading that book, I could pick myself up, dust myself off, and start over again.
Ultimately, reading Still Life with Woodpecker catalyzed me and helped me to find the strength to leave that relationship and save myself and my children.
Είναι η πρώτη λέξη, η πρώτη αίσθηση, το πρώτο σχόλιο, που μου έρχεται στο μυαλό, όταν χαράζεται η μνήμη μου και νιώθω τον εαυτό μου να ταξιδεύει και να βελτιώνεται, μέσα απο το λογοτεχνικό σεληνιακό πανδαιμόνιο του Τομ Ρόμπινς.
Μέσα σε πτήσεις φαντασίας, δύσκολες αντιστοιχίες νοημάτων και συμβολικές ανατροπές μέσα και έξω απο το χώρο, μπροστά και πίσω στο χρόνο, μέχρι να εκτεθούν με ολοκληρωτισμό οι πτυχές του πολιτισμού.Αυτός ο συγγραφέας πραγματικά ανήκει σε ένα ανώτερο επίπεδο στην παγκόσμια κλάση της φαντασίας και των οραματιστών.
Ο «Τρυποκάρυδος» είναι μια λαϊκή Βίβλος για τον έρωτα, τη φιλία, την ελευθερία και την βομβιστική αξία των παράνομων υλικών που πηγάζουν απο τη Σελήνη και ακυρώνουν τη δύναμη του ήλιου.
The comparison came to me early on in reading this book which I begrudgingly forced myself to finish: I liken modern jazz to watching a performer masturbate musically on stage, getting off on playing his crazy stuff and proving he's really talented, but ultimately seeming to be having more fun than his audience.
Reading Still Life with Woodpecker felt kind of like watching Tom Robbins masturbate.
All the while I really felt like he was having a grand old time writing this.
But most artists can enjoy their work without me wanting to punch them in the face because of their smugness.
Who knows how to make love stay?1.
Tell love you are going to the Junior's Deli on Flatbush Avenue in Brooklyn to pick up a cheesecake, and if love stays, it can have half.
Tell love you want a memento of it and obtain a lock of its hair.
Burn the hair in a dime-store incense burner with yin/yang symbols on three sides.
Talk fast over the burning hair in a convincingly exotic language.
Remove the ashes of the burnt hair and use them to paint a mustache on your face.
Tell it you are someone new.
It will stay.3.
It will stay.3.
I learned that if you have red hair you can write a crappy book and people will love it.
I could have written this book in college.
The jokes were forced, the premise was too ridiculous to take seriously, and the payoff was weak, weak, weak.
It was little more than a sophmoric creative writing assignment taken, like, way too far.
Plus if you can't write female characters to be anything more then complex sexual fantasies you should just not even try.
I got the sense that the lengthy passages discussing the main characters "flower" were written johnson-in-hand.
«Ο Άλμπερ Καμυ έγραψε πως το μόνο σοβαρό ερώτημα είναι αν πρέπει ν’ αυτοκτονήσεις ή όχι.Ο Τομ Ρόμπινς έγραψε πως το μόνο σοβαρό ερώτημα είναι αν ο χρόνος έχει αρχή και τέλος.Σίγουρα όταν το έγραψε ο Καμύ θα’ χε στραβοκοιμηθεί κι ο Ρόμπινς θα’ ξεχάσει να βάλει ξυπνητήρι.
Ένα είναι το σοβαρό ερώτημα.
Κι αυτό είναι:Ποιος ξέρει να κάνει την αγάπη παντοτινή; Απάντησε μου σ’ αυτό και θα σου πω αν πρέπει ν’ αυτοκτονήσεις ή όχι.Απάντησε μου σ’ αυτό και θα σε καθησυχάσω για την αρχή και το τέλος του χρόνου.Απάντησε μου σ’ αυτό και θα σου αποκαλύψω αν έχει λόγο να υπάρχει το φεγγάρι.»σσ.
Ε, τι να πούμε... Τομ Ρόμπινς.EDIT: Του είχα βάλει 4 αστέρια. Γύρισα και διάβασα όλα τα quotes που έχω αποθηκεύσει από αυτό το βιβλίο. Οκ, η αδικία διορθώθηκε.
Για όποιον/α ενδιαφέρεται, υπάρχει αναλυτικό κείμενο στο μπλογκ. Στην περίπτωση του Τρυποκάρυδου μπορούν να συμβούν δύο τινά. Είτε μια χρυσή κουτάλα θα αναμοχλεύσει μέσα σου μια πρωτόγονη, εφηβική σούπα γεμάτη σπίθες, ορμή και ακατάλυτη τρέλα, εισβάλλοντας σε κάθε νευρώνα σου και ηλεκτρίζοντάς τον, είτε θα αναμετρηθεί με τις αντοχές σου, θα ταράξει τα νεύρα σου και τις προσδοκίες σου σχετικά με το πώς πρέπει να αφηγούμαστε μια ιστορία και θα σε κάνει να τον παρατήσεις.Για εμένα εδώ έχουμε να κά
Είτε μια χρυσή κουτάλα θα αναμοχλεύσει μέσα σου μια πρωτόγονη, εφηβική σούπα γεμάτη σπίθες, ορμή και ακατάλυτη τρέλα, εισβάλλοντας σε κάθε νευρώνα σου και ηλεκτρίζοντάς τον, είτε θα αναμετρηθεί με τις αντοχές σου, θα ταράξει τα νεύρα σου και τις προσδοκίες σου σχετικά με το πώς πρέπει να αφηγούμαστε μια ιστορία και θα σε κάνει να τον παρατήσεις.Για εμένα εδώ έχουμε να κάνουμε με μια ιστορία πλημμυρισμένη από άκοπα διαμαντάκια που χορεύουν στον αέρα κι έτσι όπως περνάνε από δίπλα μας, χαράζουν και σκίζουν μαλακές επιφάνειες, στιγματίζουν νεαρές καρδιές και προσφέρουν απλόχερα ονειρικές εξάρσεις σε εκείνους που δεν τις έζησαν όσο νωρίς θα έπρεπε.Πιστεύω τελικά ότι ο καλύτερος τρόπος να διαβάσει κανείς αυτό το βιβλίο κρύβεται στο να αφήσει στην άκρη την εκλογίκευση και να αφεθεί ελαφρύς και πράος, να ρουφήξει τις λέξεις και να νιώσει ζωντανός και σφριγηλός μέσα στην καταπραϋντική πρόζα του Ρόμπινς, χωρίς να αναζητήσει την τάξη, αλλά να αφήσει τα λόγια του Τρυποκάρυδου να του πιπιλίσουν το μυαλό για καιρό.Δεν ξέρω πια τι θα πει αγάπη.
Για το τι είναι η αγάπη και πώς να την κάνεις να μείνει.
However, the Best thing about the book is the following quote - one of the most influential in my life:"How can one person be more real than any other?
Well, some people do hide and others seek.
Maybe those who are in hiding--escaping encounters, avoiding surprises, protecting their property, ignoring their fantasies, restricting their feelings, sitting out the Pan pipe hootchy-kootch of experience--maybe those people, people who won't talk to rednecks, or if they're rednecks won't talk to intellectuals, people who're afraid to get their shoes muddy or their noses wet, afraid to eat what they crave, afraid to drink Mexican water, afraid to bet a long shot to win, afraid to hitchhike, jaywalk, honky-tonk, cogitate, osculate, levitate, rock it, bop it, sock it, or bark at the moon, maybe such people are simply inauthentic, and maybe the jackleg humanist who says differently is due to have his tongue fried on the hot slabs of Liar's Hell.
Και στο πλοίο το πήρα, και στο κρεβάτι το πήρα, και στο βεσέ το πήρα, αλλά που να πάρει· 5 μέρες 106 σελίδες, που ισούται με 21,2 σελίδες την ημέρα, άρα 13 ημέρες χρειάζομαι για να το τελειώσω· άρα αν συνεχίσω θα το τελειώσω στις 23 του μήνα, και το θέμα είναι ότι έχω 3 βιβλία να διαβάσω για το Halloween και αυτό το βιβλίο στέκεται εμπόδιο.
Ίσως να φταίει η χρονική στιγμή, ίσως να φταίει το ότι πιέζω ψυχαναγκαστικά τον εαυτό μου να το τελειώσει, πάντως δεν μπορώ, σταματώ εδώ.Είναι το πρώτο βιβλίο που κάνω dnf από το 2014 τότε που παράτησα το άθλια βαρετό βιβλίο του Νταλί Hidden Faces, που ουδεμία σχέση με σουρεαλισμό είχε.
Μου φάνηκε ότι έφτιαχνε όσες πιο πολλές παρομοιώσεις μπορούσε για να γίνει το διήγημα του μυθιστόρημα.
Reading this book is like being invited over to someone's house for dinner, and finding that they're serving you a buffet of artisanal maraschino cherries they've made.
How clever of you." And then you're like "Oh, another one?
I really shouldn't..." and as your host just keeps piling on artisanal maraschino cherries they crafted from hand telling you how each one corresponds to an orgasm by a famous historical figure, you're like "No dude seriously, this is getting fucking irritating."That was this book for me.
Impeccably worded, very clever, and sort of clueless and icky.
There's no point in saving the world if it means losing the moon."Leigh-Cheri sent that message to Bernard through his attorney.
The bottom line is that (a) people are never perfect, but love can be, (b) that is the one and only way that the mediocre and the vile can be transformed, and (c) doing that makes it that.
Loving makes itself.
Wouldn't that be the way to make love stay?"The next day, Bernard's attorney delivered to her this reply: Love is the ultimate outlaw.
I love you for free.Leigh-Cheri went out in the blackberries and wept.
"Ένα είναι το σοβαρό ερώτημα. Κι αυτό είναι:Ποιος ξέρει να κάνει την αγάπη παντοτινή;Απάντησέ μου σ' αυτό και θα σου πω αν πρέπει ν' αυτοκτονείς ή όχι.Απάντησέ μου σ' αυτό και θα σε καθησυχάσω για την αρχή και το τέλος του χρόνου.Απάντησέ μου σ' αυτό και θα σου αποκαλύψω αν έχει λόγο να υπάρχει το φεγγάρι."
My favorite book of all time. I used a quote from this book in my wedding vows. It is funny, silly, and romantic.
gotta say... this is my favorite book of all time, expertly written... more like prose than an actual novel. who can resist a book whose first sentence is "if this typewriter can't do it, then fuck it, it can't be done!"
"Non è mai troppo tardi per farsi un’infanzia felice" Strampalato, divertente, romantico, ironico, commovente, surreale, illogico e anche profondo (a suo modo). Leggere questo libro è stata una corsa a perdifiato per tenere il passo di Tom Robbins, a volte arrancando, ma sempre con un’espressione beata sul viso.Re e regine, principi azzurri bombaroli e principesse dai capelli rossi, rospi, pacchetti di Camel, macchine da scrivere saputelle, lunacezione… e su tutto, sotto tutto, dentro tutto sor
Lo adoro!“Quando se ne va il mistero nel rapporto a due, se ne va l’amore.
Il che spinge a pensare che non tanto l’amore è importante per noi, quanto il mistero stesso.
Il rapporto amoroso forse è solo un accorgimento per metterci in contatto con il mistero, e desideriamo che l’amore perduri affinché perduri l’estasi di stare vicino al mistero”.https://youtu.be/5rkNBH5fbMk
Of course I was aware of all the praise about it but that is never enough for me to want to read a book.I think I get why it became such a big success all over the world.
Its romantic and at the same time cynical aura can be appealing to people of both sexes.
Truth is though, had I read it when I was younger, I probably would have liked it more.The humor is nice, although after a while it feels a bit forced.
I think it's clear that finally it left me with a feeling of...
What can I say, tastes change, and I've come to respect him a ton--in part, for his incredible similes/metaphors, which are worth anyone who ever wants to write picking up one of his books for.Original review:I'm not one of those people who hates or loves Tom Robbins, which I guess puts me in the minority.I'm a redhead, thus why I chose this Robbins novel to start with.
It's entertaining at times - probably moreso if you're on the same substance - and at other times, you really just wish they'd shut the fuck up.Robbins' writing style is unique, that's for damn sure.
I read this right after Ulysses, as kind of a palate-cleanser, since Tom Robbins is pretty far from James Joyce.
Anyone who was of voting age in the year 2000 remembers the impact Nader had on the presidential election, and the closer one was to the voting age that year, the more likely one thinks of Nader as "ruining" the election and contributing in part to making the world what it is today.
Strange world.Anyway, this book is classic Tom Robbins, with lots of wacky characters and preposterous plot twists, and a happy ending to boot.
The only thing standing between him and prison is the beautiful red-headed princess - Leigh-Cherie - who hates him at first sight and swears that there is absolutely nothing about him that she finds redeeming.We all know where that kind of thinking leads.They fall in love, of course, a whirlwind outlaw romance that is only put to rest when Bernie finally lands back in prison.
And, interestingly enough, it's about our relationship with the physical world, from the greatest of the Egyptian pyramids to the most mundane pack of Camels.During her self-inflicted time in solitary, Leigh-Cherie constructs a vast universe inside the label of her cigarettes (which she never actually smokes) and it leads her to truths and realizations that would confound the greatest philosopher or the most devoted mystic.
If my funny bone could write love songs they would sound like him.I find it hilarious that he writes constant asides about the typewriter that he's using, the Remington SL3.
I can't tell if this is because the asides are actually funny or if it's because I have a long and storied history with that same beast of a machine.
When I was young, eight or nine, I picked up that same baby blue behemoth at a garage sale down the road from our house and spent the next year and two ribbons that came with it banging out mediocre stories and abysmal poetry.
I love Robbins' extremely florid style.
i loved this book.
this is easy and fun stuff.i do love how i was introduced to this book (and to the author).
the summer before i moved to dc i was living in oklahoma city, living with my best friend and working for an environmental group going door to door collecting money and signatures.
one particular day this new guy was sitting watching all of us eat lunch.
i asked why he wasn't eating, and he just mumbled something about not having any money.
so, i bought him lunch.
the next day, he brought me a copy of this book as thanks.
i still have that copy...(i wish i could remember his name.)
4.5 starsTom Robbins captures my mind and imagination in his quirky, eccentric, bizarre, and outlandish story of a Princess and her love interest.
I actually went to the dictionary to look up the word : Quirky.
The perfect word for this story.
His humor is closely related to Carl Hiassen, Tim Dorsey, John Kennedy Toole in his classic buffoonery, "A Confederacy of Dunces." (By the way, is my favorite novel of all times) and William Goldman's, The Princess Bride.
It took me a long time to read this novel.
I wanted to savor each and every word; every sentences is a story within itself.
I expected crazy-weird-awesome:So far it's:To sum up, I looked forward to reading this and walked away very disappointed.Not sure if I'll ever bother writing a proper review or quoting any of the god-awful similes, stupidly-inane tangents, or sententiously-prosaic truths.
Saçma sapan ilişkilerin yaşandığı, saçma sapan bir çağda aşk ve özgürlük üzerine yazılmış bir roman -ki bu saçma sapan zaman kesinlikle günümüz değil.
Bir prensese aşık olan bir bombacı var bu modern aşk masalında, garip mi garip iki karakter var; ve bunlar birbirleri için her şeyi yapmaya hazırlar.
Bir yandan aşkı yaşamaya çalışırken bir yandan aşk, sevgi, özgürlük, devrim gibi kavramları acımasızca sorgulamaktalar.Yazarın söyleyecek o kadar çok sözü ve her yerde o kadar çok gözü var ki!
Ağaçkakan'ın Leigh-Cheri'yle oynadığı gibi onlarla -ve bizle- oynuyor.Herkesin okuması gereken (ama herkesin seveceğinden şüphe duyduğum) harikulade bir roman."Aşkı kalıcı kılmayı kim biliyor?1.
Tonight I feel generous.
Tonight I feel enchanted by the purpose of the moon.
So tonight, I will allow four glittering stars to orbit this frustrating crank of a novel.
I can tolerate their verbose, stylised prose, their cardboard characters acting as mouthpieces for authorial diatribes, their devotion to female genitals (as a ‘peachfish,’ no less), and general disregard for basic narrative techniques.
I can tolerate it, but only once a year.
I have shot my wad of tolerance, and won’t be venturing Robbinswards again.
Tom Robbins'i bir dönem ne çok sevdim. Sonra yavan gelmeye başladı ama müthiş hayalciliği ve derinliği beni hep kendisine hayran bırakmaya devam etti... Ağaçkakan da bu minvalde benim için çok özeldir..
"Ο παρωπιδισμός είναι μια ασθένεια όπου η αντίληψη περιορίζεται από την άγνοια και διαστρεβλώνεται από τα συμφέροντα.
Προκαλείται από ένα μύκητα του οπτικού, που πολλαπλασιάζεται όταν ο εγκέφαλος είναι λιγότερο δραστήριος απ' τον εγωισμό.
Όταν μια καλή ιδέα υποχρεώνεται να περάσει μέσ' απ' τα φίλτρα και τα κομπρεσέρ ενός κοινού παρωπιδισμού βγαίνει σε μειωμένη κλίμακα και αξία, αλλά η καινούργια δογματική της υπόσταση φέρνει το αντίθετο ακριβώς αποτέλεσμα από εκείνο για το οποίο δημιουργήθηκε." Είναι κάτι που μαθαίνεις διαβάζοντας για τον έρωτα μεταξύ ενός παράνομου βομβιστή-τρυποκάρυδου και μιας έκπτωτης πριγκίπισσας-μαζορέτας.
Ότι πιο ωραίο και τρελό έχω διαβάσει τον τελευταίο καιρό.
Νομίζω ότι το χιούμορ του Ρόμπινς χάνει λίγο από τη μετάφραση...
”L’amore è il fuorilegge definitivo” Strampalato, surreale, illogico, caotico, infarcito di metafore che esprimono concetti profondi, perciò anche filosofico in un certo senso, perfino romantico e travolgente: principesse autoesiliatesi, principi bombaroli, macchine da scrivere saputelle, pacchetti di Camel, piramidi, rospi, la Luna e l’amore."Quell'abbaiare alla luna?""Cioè?""Il nostro amore è stato solo quello, per te?""L'amore è quello sempre. L'amore non è un concerto d'arpa in un salotto b
Strampalato, surreale, illogico, caotico, infarcito di metafore che esprimono concetti profondi, perciò anche filosofico in un certo senso, perfino romantico e travolgente: principesse autoesiliatesi, principi bombaroli, macchine da scrivere saputelle, pacchetti di Camel, piramidi, rospi, la Luna e l’amore."Quell'abbaiare alla luna?""Cioè?""Il nostro amore è stato solo quello, per te?""L'amore è quello sempre.
Così come puoi scommetterci che non è la mutua, la lotteria, le discoteche con i pattini a rotelle.
Penso alla carta della luna nei tarocchi: un crostaceo strano e enorme, l'armatura che luccica e le tenaglie che si scuotono ed esce dall'acqua mentre i cani selvatici ululano a una luna gonfia così.
Ay ışığında renklenmiş dinamit lokumlarıyla tatlanmış sıradışı bir hikayeydi. Karakterler, zaman ve mekan eğlenceli ve anlatım fazlasıyla yazara özgüydü. Keyifle okudum tavsiye ederim :)
