https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/175828.Iron_Lake
I think the books will be getting better and better.
I will be reading the second book next month.
Cork sets out to find the missing teen, and tries at the same time to revive his all but over marriage by disentangling himself from his affair with a local diner waitress.
As a lakeside blizzard buries Aurora, Cork must dig out the truth among town officials who seem dead-set on stopping his investigation in its tracks.
But even freezes up when faced with the harshest enemy of all: a small-town secret that hits painfully close to home.Krueger uses Anishinaabe folklore, outstanding plotting, and a spectacular setting to weave his story.
A very interesting introduction to a new to me author and series.
I really enjoyed the setting with the cold, the snow, snowmobiles, skis and driving on the frozen lake.
An alien way of life to me as a resident of a very temperate part of Australia!The story was excellent and the body count was huge.
Actually the author maybe overdid that part of it but once I suspended belief I found it all very entertaining.
I am looking forward to seeing his character develop over the rest of the series.
I’d never heard of the author or this series and my group came through yet again in selecting a really good story.Corcoran “Cork” O’Connor is the former sheriff of Aurora, Minnesota.
Of course, Cork believes differently.Even though he hasn’t been the sheriff for at least six months, the town still sees that as Cork’s identity and allows his intrusion in the case.
He’s proud of his Indian heritage but walks a fine line between both races.Solving the case was a major challenge as there were many potential suspects and motives were rampant.
While this case was solved, there is much unresolved in Cork’s life and I’m dying to start the next book.
The same can be said for Aurora and the Tamarack County, whose oddball inhabitants still hide a lot of secrets behind their closed doors.By mentioning the frozen county, the small town crime spree, the lone wolf Sheriff with family troubles and the Native American angle, I suppose it is obvious there are similarities between this series and the Walt Longmire books by Craig Johnson.
O'Connor is also feeling guilty because, in the wake of the separation from his wife, he has secretly begun seeing a beautiful waitress with a hot sauna and a bad reputation.The strength of the book lies principally in Krueger's description of the brutal winter landscape in which the story plays out.
It's a complex story with lots of twists and turns, and a reader would be well-advised to have a hot toddy or two close at hand as a remedy for the freezing Minnesota winter.If I have a concern about the book it lies principally with the whole idea of Cork O'Connor conducting this investigation with no legal authority to do so.
The Greek tragedy of detectives in literature is that the pursuit of the truth and justice usually wrecks the lives around them, far more than if they'd just left things alone.
You always wonder "who would still be alive, who would be whole, if not for the detective's journey to truth" ...."He looked at his hands.
How useless a man’s hands were, he thought, when it came to fixing the important things."The presentation of Native American culture and life is wonderfully and sensitively done.
Cork goes to Darla's house and gets a copy of his customer list.
He goes to the last customer on the list, ex Judge Robert Parrant, one the architects of Cork's recall election.
Cork finds the Judge's body.
Cork gets help from Anishinaabe friends and a deputy who owes him a favor in his investigation.
The suspense builds and Cork does solve the case, with very little help from Schanno.One thing bothered me.
Yet he is able to investigate and support himself without any income.This was a library book and I plan to read more of the series.
After a moderately ho-hum beginning this first volume of the Cork O'Connor mystery series takes off like gangbusters with bodies piling up faster than you can say 'yassir, you betcha'.
I particularly liked William Kent Krueger's character building ability as by the end there were very few characters that I didn't have strong feelings for one way or the other.
Some day I hope to return the favor.FYI: On a 5-point scale I assign stars based on my assessment of what the book needs in the way of improvements:*5 Stars – Nothing at all.
*1 Star - The only thing that would improve this book is a good bonfire.
I could not put this book down. An excellent story set in Minnesota - an area I know next to nothing about. The scenery, landscape and climate was evocative and almost a character in its own right. It was fascinating to read about the politics and dynamics between the white and Native American communities. I loved Cork and as has been said by other reviewers, his family life is as fascinating as the plot itself.I'm so excited to have discovered another new series. Recommended.
I seem to be the dissenting opinion on this one.
Maybe it is because I read so many European procedurals in which people rarely get shot and there's a lot of paperwork, but this is a feverishly overstuffed book of middle-aged man wish fulfillment.
At some point, don't you just look at the bodies piling up and call the state police?
The author just barely manages to restrain himself from having an epilogue in which the handful of surviving townspeople crawl to Cork begging him to return as sheriff and throw a parade starring his ashamed wife.
I put it like that because I read Krueger’s stand-alone book, Ordinary Grace, shortly after it came out, and although I had meant to start his Cork O’Conner series many times, I just hadn’t.
First off, Cork is worth reading because Krueger is talented.
He proved that to me in the other book I read.
The depth of those emotions ran deeper in Ordinary Grace, probably because the protagonist was a young boy, and Krueger has had more time since Iron Lake to work on his craft.
Here’s what did surprise me: the believability and likeability of Cork O’Conner as a character.
The author has a lovely way of introducing his characters and giving them their home in the story - little details about them stick in the mind - which is unusual given there are plenty of characters in this book and it would be easy for them to get lost - but they don't.
The 'Windigo' is also a novel concept to me and I liked how this played on Cork's mind all the way from the time he was fourteen years old and went hunting in the woods...I dropped the last star due to the ending.
He was the Sheriff, married to a beautiful intelligent woman, and proud father of three children.But things go terribly wrong when the Native Americans determine to exercise their fishing rights to the whole of Iron Lake.
O'Corcoran's objective is to see "The People" get to their boats safely and exercise their rights to fish the lake.
O'Corcoran takes up lodging in his dead Shinnob's quonset hut on the shore of Iron Lake.Although he's no longer law enforcement, Darla Labeau calls O'Corcoran to report her 18 year old son hasn't returned from delivering the papers on his route.
After reading Ordinary Grace I decided Krueger's Cork O'Connor's mystery series deserved my attention.
Iron Lake begins with these lines"Cork O’Connor first heard the story of the Windigo in the fall of 1965 when he hunted the big bear with Sam Winter Moon.
Though I always think we get way too much snow in the Northeast, I've never had to ski to get to work and really enjoyed all the snowmobiling, Cork's Bronco, dips from sauna to cold lake, ice fishing, freezing temps, snow and storms, that set a mood and tone to the story.Someone looking for more of the ilk of Tony Hillerman or Margaret Cole, might enjoy this series.
With boring backgrounds that involve Indian supernatural folklore - I don't stomach mysteries that resort to such subterfuge, avoid beyond this world explanations when the genre is detective/mystery, decry irrational explanations of the crime which to me defeat the whole purpose of reading the damn book (unless of course you are Michael Gruber and you're reading the Jimmy Paz series - yeah, I'll read anything Gruber puts out there!) - boring red neck characters (is there such a thing as a Minnesota red neck?), small town corruption and politics, incompetent forensics and pathologists, petty motivations,and what not.
It’s amazing, isn’t it, the things that can change your life."In terms of the Anishinaabeg Mr. Krueger is careful to not enforce the stereotype to which most have come to:[...]If you read my stories, please don’t read them as ethnography.
I laughed. I cried. I was happy. I was mad. But mostly I cried. Wow what an emotional ride. The author did a great job of introducing all the characters, so much so, you loved or hated them and their roles in the story.The author even threw in some educational items into the story, Indian lore and stories. I would recommend giving this book and author a read.
I'd never heard of the series or the author but when one of my book groups chose this series as a group read this year I decided to give it a try.
The story introduces our main protagonist, Corcoran "Cork" O'Connor during a not so great time in his life.
Half-Irish and half American Indian, Cork is the former Sheriff of a small town in northern Minnesota but both his professional and personal lives have hit the skids in the year, give or take a few months, preceding the start of the story.
Cork made for a great protagonist: middle aged, not particularly handsome, not in possession of a ripped body, and a little world weary.
So I happily followed.
Anything cold, freezing, snowy, well, they're just not in my sphere of knowledge.
And I'm cold natured anyway so was freezing ass cold from page one to page 438.
Yes, there were some murders; did the protagonist, Cork O'Connor, solve them?
And he shook his finger at a teenager who murdered.
Great job, Cork.
And the ending, well, it seemed to be written on the fly...and went on......and on........and on.
I was so glad when I got to page 438, went outside and stood in the January 8, 71 degree Florida sunshine and happily warmed up.
Great writing with well paced plot, unusual characters and setting-especially the weather in a bone chilling Minnesota winter. I had to put on gloves to turn the pages and could almost see my vaporized breath. One star deduction for death of a particular character and an ending which didn't match the quality of the rest of the story.
I won't spell out the story, but murders pile up and Cork gets into and out of many scrapes as he works to find out who the murderers are.I loved how Krueger wove O'Connor's back story into this first of the series as if we had been reading about him all along.
I had to look up who started their series first and it was Krueger by 7 years.I live in Minnesota, so I could picture and relate to the locale, which as one reviewer said, was like a character unto itself.
Well, that was a surprise! I was looking for a quick easy read and I got a great thriller full of believable deep characters. Absolutely loved it and will read the next book in the series soon!
The plot had enough twists, turns, & dodges in it to keep it interesting, but it isn't one that the reader can solve ahead of time, at least not very far.
(view spoiler)[Why did the hermit guy (can't recall his name, but the one with the mean dog) have some of the tapes, especially the one that Sandy played?
And how the hell did Jo manage to actually hit Sandy's car, especially in the windshield.
A lot must happen in the first four books of this series, as Cork felt like an entirely different character to me with more flaws than smooth skin.
But it was his flaws, and his troubled relationship with his wife Jo, that kept me turning the pages like tree branches blowing in the middle of a tropical storm.I found myself constantly asking the question: What will happen next?
The description flowed like water from a calm river, all of the characters proved just as flawed as Cork, and the town of Aurora was filled with enough distrust to start a political election.All in all this made for a read that was well worth my time, and possibly yours as well.
This book is a debut novel,and I will start this review by saying that.Beautifully written,great story telling,in a winter setting,so it was very atmospheric for me,as here in Canada,our winters can be a little rough.The whole of this book centers around Cork O'Conner,who,doing his own investigating with no real authority to do so,is what this book is mainly about.If you like murder mystery stories,I think you should give this book a try.And I WILL,look into the rest of his books.He is just an amazing author(William Kent Krueger)I applaud you sir!
When the setting of a book is as real as this, I don't wonder why I'm sitting here freezing! This was a wonderful book. I'm sad about one particular character I grew to like very much. Remains to be seen where the story goes in the next book, I hope.
Near ‘Iron Lake’ in Minnesota and the small town of Aurora, population 3,752 (book was published in 1998), ex-sheriff Corcoran “Cork” O’Connor lives in a Quonset hut.
Joe John, a full-blooded Anishinaabe, has gone missing at the same time as Darla’s and Joe John’s son, Paul.
Was either Paul or Joe John involved in Parrant’s death?Adding to Cork’s unease, Henry Meloux, an Anishinaabe medicine man, has warned Cork a Windigo, a spirit, is around.
What does it mean if a death and the disappearances may have called up a Windigo?
Is the casino involved somehow?Cork has to find out.
This extraordinary debut novel by William Kent Krueger is the first of a series that introduces the protagonist Cork O'Connor----an unforgettably bold, romantic, strong and moralistically above board character.
Cork is part Irish and part Anishinaabe, Native American, formerly the sheriff of Aurora, Minnesota.
Krueger deftly leads the reader on a journey into the blizzards of Aurora as Cork doggedly strives to solve a series of unusual deaths and disappearances.
The story slowly but steadfastly unravels, and the reader is captivated by setting, characters, love, betrayal and justice.
I would also like to thank certain people who recommended this novel to me.
I read Ordinary Grace first, which I liked more, but Iron Lake is also a very well done book. Krueger creates layered, complex characters who aren’t perfect but are likeable. He does a masterful job with setting and his use of words, beautiful metaphors and similes and enough plot twists to keep you turning pages. I’ll read more Cork O’Conner books in the future.
Clean dialogue, but does every character talk the same way? Nice plot.
And if you're a fan of C.J. Box's park ranger Joe Pickett or Steve Hamilton's Alex McKnight as I am, I'm pretty sure you'll love this as well.It's the first in the author's series featuring former Chicago cop Corcoran "Cork" O'Connor, who moved to remote Aurora, Minnesota, with his wife and three kids.
He's also unofficially dating Molly, a local waitress, with mixed feelings about it because he hasn't given up on getting back together with his wife.But then, a prominent but very unlikable judge apparently commits suicide, and a young boy who might have information goes missing.
