https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/910343.Brother_of_the_More_Famous_Jack
I am going to buy used copies and start handing them out to people in the hope of starting a groundswell that will get a US publisher to pick up the rights and give this book the audience it deserves.Trapido's novel was her debut and since it was published more than thirty years ago, it may seem dated to some readers, but it is timeless in all the ways that really matter.
This book took a while for me to get into but once I did I enjoyed it. The writing flows nicely and it allowed me to read at a quick pace. I did find the characters to not be even remotely relatable, although for me this did not take away from the novel very much. Some of their choice baffled me to no end, but I did find everyone rather likeable in a very quirky and eccentric way. 3.5/5Note: I received this book for free in exchange for an honest review.
Con un estilo elegante, duro a veces y una gran modernidad para la época en la que fue escrito (1982), Barbara Trapido nos cuenta la vida de Katherine desde sus dieciocho años hasta la edad adulta. Unos diálogos ingeniosos, unos personajes carismáticos y un sentido del humor muy fino han sido los aspectos que más me han gustado, además de la forma de tratar la evolución de la protagonista, y ver cómo la Katherine que conocemos en las primeras páginas no es la misma de la que nos despedimos en la última.

Katherine Browne is somewhat surprised to gain a University place in London after her interview with philosophy Professor Jacob Goldman, and even more surprised to find herself taken to his country house by a prospective lover.
It becomes the first of many visits, as Katherine is enveloped into this large family’s chaotic life.
And just as inevitably, when the relationship ends, she flees to Italy, where a very different life awaits.
This is a novel that proceeds at a gentle pace; the plot is perhaps a little predictable, yet there are plenty of surprises and, towards the end, many laugh-out-loud moments.

Over the course of various meetings and conversations, it becomes clear that a transformation has taken place: in some of the people she once knew, and also in her.By book's end, I was deeply in love with them all.
And it occurred to me that, with her narrator, Trapido had pulled a masterful stunt similar to Dickens in David Copperfield: the voice begins as young and inexperienced and foolish, and gradually matures to something approaching wisdom and humility -- without the reader noticing just where the changes of perspective and voice have taken place.
This is a masterful book.
It is an intensely English book - full of anachronisms that even I don't get anymore, but the book still works if one just skips on by.
The book has everything - for romance, there is a pair of brooding, precocious brothers; for laughs, a gorgeous, eccentric English family with naughty boys peeing in baskets full of wellies, secrets divulged in the vegetable patch, and lots of swearing and sex talk in front of the children; and for tragedy there is love lost, and a baldy-stated event that rips your heart out.
Originally published in 1982 and now being re-released in November 2014 is Trapido's book that has been named by several authors as the book that influenced their writing the most.
With reviews/recommendations like that I definitely wanted to read it!It's a coming of age book featuring Katherine.
In fact, this time one of the Goldman's helps Katherine heal from the beating her heart has taken and she settles into a life she realizes she was actually meant to live.
It lacked an actual story, it was a rather boring telling of a girl named Katherine and about 14 years of her life.
Absolutely loved Katherine and the warm, sardonic Goldman family, who couldn't have appeared more real to me if they were sitting in my lounge room.
Because the dialogue is so quick-witted and rich and paints a perfect image of each of the characters, the narration doesn't feel laborious or unnecessary (e.g. I adored the way Trapido describes the minor character of Katherin's mum as "a creature of fixed habits, who could only wash dishes from left to right" - this says more about a complex character in one line than some heavily descriptive novels could say in pages!).
The whole thing feels like one of those filled-with-love-and-swearing arguments you have with your eccentric family at Christmas, only everyone is smarter and better looking.Read this book!
It has been described as such by many reviewers, and the 'serving suggestion' on the back cover by Rachel Cooke from the Sunday Times is to consume the story in a bed of fresh linen whilst munching on Marmite on toast.
You feel the necessity of love for these characters as with a familial bond, a tenderness that runs in the blood, yet really they are pretty awful.I am aware that this is a very British review of a very British book, but whether you're familiar with the act of spreading yeast extract on your sandwiches or not, I'm sure you'll find at least parts of this coming-of-age story unfortunately relatable.
The narrator is an (accidental) philosophy student, smart but self-effacing, who falls in love with her philosophy professor's whole family, and then their oldest son.
It is hard not to fall in love with the family--the philosopher father who tells everyone how much he likes having sex with his wife, the mother who is matter-of-fact and sweetly bossy in her mothering (she has six children so there is a lot of mothering to do), the children who through benign neglect develop their own very individual personalities...
It is hard to convey but I can promise you that you'll want to hang out with them after you meet them.
One of the finest Domestic realism books I have ever read!
Trapido is an author I had never heard of until the ABC Book club featured her as their classic last month and I am glad to have found her exquisite poetic prose.
The story itself revolves around an unconventional family, their children and their friendship with Katherine, the patriarchs philosophy student, and later lover of two sons.
It's a very simple story and not a lot happens in their lives, in fact their lives are quite ordinary, its actually the fine writing that makes this book a masterpiece.

It's weird that such a thing would interfere with my interest, because I LOVE a lot of dialogue-heavy things (like "Gilmore Girls," for instance) - but I can think of no other explanation.
Jacob, Jane, and Jont all achieved a certain degree of lovable imperfection, but Roger certainly never did; nor did Michele or the protagonist.
I know it refers to the Yeats Brothers, WB & Jack, of whom Jack actually *isn't* the more famous; WB is.
Is it supposed to be a joke?
Is Roger supposed to be "the more famous" brother and Jont his lesser-known kin?
Katherine, the only child of a prim, inhibited mother and a deceased father, enters into university under Jacob Goldman, an independent, eccentric professor whose family comes to adore Katherine.
After a heartbreaking end to her first love, Katherine begins a journey of discovery that takes her across the continent and through many beds.
After an incredibly tragic loss, Katherine is back in England and with the Goldmans once more.The characters are what really drive this story.
It is an excellent coming of age story that highlights the highest of highs (first love) and the lowest of lows (death).
It reads like a quirky period piece, but was actually first published in 1982, with the story beginning in the 1960s, and continuing to the (then) present day.
Along the way she leaves her young naive self behind, suffers tragedy and tells her story in a sometimes offhand way, in a style which reminded me of the contemporary author Nina Stibbe.
I read the republished 2014 edition with a forward by Maria Semple, who is a champion of the book after finding an out of print edition years ago.
Highly recommended to readers who enjoy unconventional British novels with memorable characters and humorous dialogue.
Primera lectura: Febrero 2016Puntuación: 5/5El libro se ha ganado un puesto entre mis favoritos y no os lo recomiendo, os ruego que lo leáis. Hay mucho trasfondo en la historia, que no es nada superficial, muy entretenida y con unos momentos preciosos. También me ha gustado que de vez en cuando tenga unos toques de humor inteligentes, nada estúpidos. Si estáis buscando una novela bonita, con muchas enseñanzas y unos personajes entrañables, tenéis que leer este libro.Reseña completa: http://blogireadismile.blogspot.com.e...
Mostly insufferable and childish, with some real emotion and truthtelling about sex and motherhood thrown in. Each sentence has been massaged and plucked and oiled to within an inch of its life, which is totally exhausting. Just as problematically, the characters read like the ones you dream up as a 10-year-old child, when you think the goal of fiction is to immerse yourself, the writer, in the world you'd like to live in, one peopled exclusively with brilliant, rude, loving people who talk the way you do in your diary.
I wish I had read this book last month so that it would mean something if I said it was my favorite book of the year. I came across it in my local indie much the way Maria Semple describes in her introduction, and fell in love with the title and the cover as much as with the first page. Delicious and delightful, with nods to Janes Eyre and Austen, putting me in mind of both I Capture the Castle and Fear of Flying!
This book creeps up on you slowly. The story follows a young naïveté who enters the world of the cultural & philosophical Goldman's and what an introduction! The characters are all eccentric and flawed in their own way but also feel so welcoming. It's their perceived flaws that make you fall in love with them and all their nuances. I didn't want to rush reading this as I enjoyed being in their world so very much.
A book that bears the very unusual distinction of being very good literature and a damned good read. Characters that make you fall in love with them and fast paced vivid dialogue.
The characters, particularly those who belong to the large Goldman family, are, on the whole, unlikeable assholes, but there is the smallest spark of charm underneath that kept me from writing them off completely.
They reminded me a little bit of Wes Anderson’s Tenenbaums, or Noah Baumbach’s Berkmans, families who are sometimes too smart for their own good and who bicker and nit-pick but who must love each other to some degree underneath all of that.
If you like smart, witty, somewhat unbearable characters and family dynamics, pick this one up.
It’s very British, very intimate, and has little plot other than the life events of the narrator.
Basically it’s the story of a young woman who falls in love with a family.
I might have to read it again because I’m sure I missed some of the humor early on...much of it feels like inside jokes and at that point I wasn’t an insider yet.
Now the book is over and I’m sad that I won’t get to spend any more time with the Goldmans and particularly sad that I can’t marry one of their sons.
Such a strange little book and so fun to read.
Both dated and timeless; I can understand both why it's relentlessly praised and why it went out of print. Katherine, John Millet, and the various Goldmans are all deeply flawed but appealing at the same time. The book is nothing big or flashy, just a young woman's coming-of-age, the little details of domestic life and assorted relationships. It's quietly interesting.Great title.
I read this book quite by accident. I was overseas and my e-reader died. Thank goodness my travel companion had ‘real’ books... and amongst them was this treasure... I borrowed it again this week to finish it off (and went back quite some way, as I wanted to remember the vibe of the story)... and it was delicious. Nuff said :) Ps. Thanks Diane 😊
Mmmmm this book is delicious it's so perfect. I'm sitting here trying to decide the best time of year for an annual reread and it has JUST occurred to me (I might be insane) that Brother of the More Famous Jack is basically Little Women told from Laurie's point of view....if Laurie was a girl and there was a lot of sex throughout. Oh my god. Yes.
English coming of age and beyond story, funny, tragic and totally engrossing.
A Prize in Every BoxIf you enjoyed the sturm und drang that was the Royal Tenenbaum household, (as imagined by Wes Anderson), or if you followed with fascination and dismay the adventures of Augusten Burroughs as he ran with scissors among the members of the Finch family, or if you just like brilliant cross-talk, well then have I got a book for you.Our heroine, Katherine, is smart, feisty, ruefully observant, brutally honest and self-aware, and articulate in a reserved but arresting fashion.
This book reflects the perfect subject when examined by the perfect observer.
Wonderful coming of age book about a young woman and her encounters with a delightfully eccentric family, lead by a Jewish philosophy lecturer, a stay at home mum and six children in various stages of their life development.
The themes are one modern women will relate to (university, singledom, motherhood) and Katherine herself is a more complex character than a tool for others; she's smart, enjoys knitting, is fashion conscious and grows up throughout the novel.
The Goldman's are visceral characters described with rich depth and provide a lot if the comedy in this novel.
