https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/460635.The_Bone_People
I have read this book 11 times.
It's not because of my faulty memory (although I do have one), it is because this is my favorite fiction book of all time.
At times there is an omniscient narrator and at others it is told in the first person.
Keri Hulme plays with the shape and feel of words themselves, giving the book a sensory quality not usually found just by reading.
I do not want to give too much away because I feel that discovering this book is sort of like going on an amazing drive through beautiful country - just around the next bend there will be something wonderful, but each person will be struck by different things.
The surface story is about the interactions between three difficult and damaged people, but there is a lot more to it than that - plenty of Maori culture, mythology and language (fortunately most of the latter is translated in the glossary) and a mixture of first and third person narrative voices including quite a lot of poetry.
The third character is Joe, who found Simon and adopted him with his now dead wife.
The story concerns their interactions, conflicts and culture clashes.The story touches on some difficult themes, particularly Joe's relationship with Simon, which mixes extreme physical violence with a love that Simon needs more than anything else.
There is a realism-based story of friendship, self-destruction, and child abuse, and there is a symbolism-filled story of healing, catharsis, and the necessary fusing of Maori and European civilisations.
As I noted, a key story element in the novel is child abuse.
She went on to say that she wanted to write about child abuse because it is a problem in New Zealand that is not acknowledged.
We can’t, however, get away from the symbolic, religious elements of the story because they seem just too carefully thought out and constructed.
But the story of these individuals has a powerful current that runs counter to the symbolism of the narrative arc.
A sense of home and family life is often seen as something to be strived for as Simon thinks;“He had endured it all.
Hulme has taken two elements of postcolonial literature, language and magic realism and uses them to good effect.One issue that cannot be avoided is the violence by Joe towards Simon.
When Hulme writes the violence she strips back the language and makes it very stark.
Hulme has stated that violence towards children was a “pervasive social problem in New Zealand, among Maoris and Pakeha .
His attempt to destroy Simon seems linked to the destruction of Maori culture.
4.5/5A rare mix of characters and languages and emotions indeed.
Gripping.
Kerewin is one of my all-time favorite characters; she's everything I am and so much more.
The talent and the energy and the drive.
Simply beautiful.
I can't forgive Joe though.
(view spoiler)[I don't see any justification for his violence.
Is this how males get?
(hide spoiler)]Moving on though.
Hardly satisfying(view spoiler)[, especially given all the hinting and foreshadowing.
Unlikely (hide spoiler)].
The Maori language has a certain running quality that makes the sprinkling through tolerable, almost pleasant, despite the lack of understanding.
But I can't deny its unique beauty.
that should prevent Himi getting damaged again  (wrong )You could argue that this is not the author condoning violence but rather shining a light upon it and yet there is this all too pervasive, anti-establishment rhetoric here that argues that a child no matter what occurs is best with his foster father even if that person hits you so hard you are now deaf.
(hide spoiler)]( The rating given reflects my distaste for the handling of the subject matter not as a reflection for the quality of the writing which is mostly exceptional and of course this is all a personal opinion and I do not hold any grudge towards readers who found this an entirely different and more worthy experience )
Once I noticed them, however, they were impossible to un-notice.My first problem with the book is that one slowly realizes that Kerewin is a bothersome character.
I understand that their relationship is supposed to represent the cultural conflict, but Joe beats the crap out of Simon.
Kerewin doesn't like it but doesn't really do much about it.
Joe’s presented in a disturbingly sympathetic light, and we're supposed to be okay with it all at the end, because he finds an ancient god and is redeemed.
(hide spoiler)]I'm not exactly sorry that I read The Bone People, but I don't think I recommend it.
So, okay, Ms. Hulme, I already felt rather suffocated by your novel throughout the book, but you really tried to strangle me with your final chapters.
However, after those last chapters, I will now grant it a mere one star plus another one for the rather picturesque writing throughout the book.Let me explain.
Hulme’s apparent alter ego, Kerewin, has serious character flaws and feels so elevated from mere humans that she does not want to commit herself in any way, even if a six year old boy, whom she claims to love, is ferociously beaten on several occasions, the last abuse so severe that the boy is within inches of death.
I out myself as a philistine, I guess, with my dislike of this painfully literary book, which I read only because I was in New Zealand and thought I ought to read a famous NZ author.
Once I got past the aggressively defensive introduction (Idiosyncratic Author is idiosyncratic!
I can dizzily swap first-person POV and use my own grammar and make up my own words because I am Artistic!) and the Mary-Sueish tinge of the central character being named after the author (*headdesk*), I found this book...confusing.
I didn't particularly like any of the characters, but I suppose that was part of the point.
I didn't really think it all that special when I read it, but it has stayed in my mind so vividly when many a lesser book has dissipated from my memory.
I think the authors descriptions are understated while being vivid.
I read the book years ago and I can still remember clearly descriptions of meals cooked, of the matter-of-fact efficiency the main character displayed in her solitude.
All of the characters are overtly flawed, and the author doesn't just skip over that to tell a "happily ever after" story about friendship.
Maybe I loved this book because it is not a fairytale.
When I recommended this book to my book club several years ago, the only other woman who had read it glared at me and said "if we pick this book, I am going to be REALLY mad at you" and so I withdrew the suggestion.
This winner of the Man Booker prize is painful to read.
It forces the reader to consider the complexity of human nature and behavior -- how thin the line can be between love and abuse.
It is set in New Zealand and is about three wounded and likeable characters - a man, a woman, and a child.
I read this as part of my self-declared New Zealand November in 2015. It checks of a few boxes for me - Oceania 2015, a Man Booker Prize winner (I'd like to read them all eventually) from 1985, female author, etc. Keri Hulme is also part Maori, which made this a deeper cultural read about the country.From the publisher's description, I was expecting a pretty straight-forward novel:  "In a tower on the New Zealand sea lives Kerewin Homes, part Maori, part European, an artist estranged from her ar
"In a tower on the New Zealand sea lives Kerewin Homes, part Maori, part European, an artist estranged from her art, woman in exile from her family.
Instead I discovered a book mixing poetry inside of prose, stream of consciousness inside of third-person narrative, rotating points of view inside three unusual minds, and a setting with fantastical elements, sometimes from Maori mythology, sometimes Keriwen's or Simon's own ideas.
It was simultaneously easy and complex to read and is unlike anything else I can think of that I've read.It's funny because the only books I can think of that are similar are recent New Zealand reads.
I remembered it having a slow start and then building up to a shattering climax.The scenes that had an impact for me still do.
(hide spoiler)] Some of the prose was quite beautiful & I didn't mind the liberties Hulme took with descriptive words.
Personally I found her insufferable at the start, although she did improve in the middle of the book & I liked the character's honesty about her part in the outcome for Simon.I had forgotten the ending.
Thought Hulme wimped out a bit there.Not a masterpiece (Mistresspiece?) but a very fine book & an important part of New Zealand's literary landscape.
I am a not overly enthusiastic about this book. Although some parts were beautifully written and engaging, in the end it failed to convince me. The book deals with difficult issues, i,e. inter-familial violence, child abuse and alcoholism. Hulme paints a vivid, realistic picture and the characters (even the abusive stepfather) are not 'black and white'. But the 'hollywood-ending', where all is hopeful and the abusive father is reformed, didn't ring true to me. Still, for readers interested in Maori culture the book might be worthwile.
The Bone People is, quite simply, the most powerful, moving, stunning book I have ever read.
She challenges the reader to look at our society as a whole; to see what we do to people and how we as communities play a role in creating some of the violent, terrible situations that result in children being abused.
I know that some people found that the mysticism in the latter section of the novel took away from the book.
I admit I did hate Joe the first time I read the novel; I really only began to understand him the second time I read the book.
3.5 rounded up. I first read this book in the early 90's and I didn't remember that much of the story but I remember living it. This time it was on track to be a 5 star read until I got to the last part and then it just went off the rails for me. Sometimes I really enjoy rereads and sometimes I think they are a terrible idea.
Reading about a kid being brutally beaten regularly, not a couple slaps or strops of a belt, but broken bones and scars that will never go away physically or emotionally, is depressing.Reading about other people thinking something should be done, and doing nothing, well...
Nonetheless, it is obvious within the story how characters are judged on how "Maori" they are from physical looks, to language skills, and beliefs.
I haven't read any critiques about this, but it would be interesting to discuss with someone who had greater understanding of the issues.
But there's no compass for my disoriented soul, only ever-beckoning ghostlights.In the one sure direction, to the one sure end.
This novel is full of violence and twisted emotions, making this a tense and draining book to read.Something I really liked about this novel was Keri Hulme’s use of silence as tool that drives the plot.
You can read this book and find many examples of silences within it; very effective and I spent a lot of time trying to work out the meaning behind it.Each character has been damaged that their defensive mechanisms make it hard to open up to others.
For the first third or so I was completely hooked and thought I’d discovered another all-time favourite, but it missed out on a five-star rating from me because the pace slowed in the middle third and then the final third was frankly just mad.The book is about Kerewin Holmes (the author is called Keri Hulme, geddit?), a reclusive and wealthy eccentric living in a remote tower on a beach in New Zealand.
The fascinating thing about Kerewin is that she is written in a way that is completely devoid of the male gaze (yes, the author was female, but I find that even female writers tend to write with a male gaze, probably without even noticing).
I can't really say that I liked this book.
I liked the earlier parts of the book when Kerewin's narration was more dominant.
Toward the end, after Joe beat up Simon I stopped liking the book at all.
Kerewin's redemption in the end bothered me because it seemed like a happy ending to a twisted book.
Most other reviews and summaries of the book make a big deal of the Maori connection.
Joe was Maori, Keri part Maori and Simon European.
Keri was the connection and that was a symbol throughout the book....

One of my all-time favourites.
A quirky book, very New Zealand - they produce some....unusual books and films here.
The national psyche here is...bleaker - and darker - than would perhaps appear to the observer.
At least, that is true if you look at the creative output with my (jaded?) eye!If you would like to see what I mean, watch 'The Piano', 'Once Were Warriors' and 'Whale Rider' - which last is not so much dark as steeped in 'otherness'.
This novel speaks so clearly to me of the New Zealand psyche that I put it forward as archetypal of this country, this nation.
He's the life of the party, he's emotional, funny, caring and of course there were times when I found myself longing for the obvious love story.
Rarely in life are there actually people who can be defined as evil or good as they are in books and cinema.
In real life, child abusers are people not archetypes.
I went back and forth, rapidly turning pages to putting the book down for days (read:weeks) because it was just too damn much, too frustrating, too painful and, frankly, too long.
It took me probably 15 or 20 pages to figure out how to read this book.
By page 34, I love both Kerewin (artist (estranged from her art), exile (from her family), dislikes people, especially children) and Simon (the child, naturally, speechless, which is less expected).
By the half-way point Hulme has moved away from the sunny view of "cranky loner woman falls in love with strange child and all is happy." No, as beautiful as that was, there is much more to the story.
Kerewin comes to know who is the abuser, has to figure out what, if anything, to do.
I remember loving it the first time around, but I also remember thinking that it was flawed in many little ways (the very beginning, the sketchy end, the way the story's strands seem to escape Keri Hulme in the last third) yet whenever I've stumbled upon it on GR I kept being surprised at my 4*rating, since there's many five* reads that I remember much less and that had less of an emotional impact on me.
I don't hate it. Therefore, the two stars.I do wish I understood it. I am sure that this story was written about three people and a culture I do not understand.It was an interesting experiment in a writing style all the author's own. It was just too vague and cryptic for me to appreciate.
i don't know why it's taken me so long to write this post, since i've been wanting to rave about the book since i finished it.
their speech patterns started incorporating themselves into my inner voice as i read, too (i still keep finding myself thinking "e (name)" and "berloody").
phantom mentioned the book in a comment to my post about asexuality as an example of a character who wanted "love and human connections" without being sexual (thanks phantom!).
the three main characters' inner voices are written so well that i couldn't help feeling for all of them as they worked through the misunderstandings to negotiate their relationships.
I don’t really know how to explain this novel or the spell it cast on me, so I’ll throw out some random tidbits: An artist and loner named Kerewin Holmes, estranged from her family and resistant to human touch, lives alone in a remote tower near the Tasman sea.
These three individual characters - Kerewin, Simon and Joe - become inextricably bound, and this novel is their complex story.
If you decide to read this 1985 Booker and Pegasus Prize winner, my advice is don’t try to make sense of every word - just let some of the unusual free verse and random, alternating narrative wash over you.
The book centers around three main characters, but their relationship with one another is best left up to the reader to determine as the story unfolds.Hulme is a self-identified bicultural writer, which makes The Bone People a bicultural text, incorporating both Maori and Pakeha influences within the New Zealand setting.
This poetic quality is unusual, but represents a cultural quality of Maori language.
Though this makes the book dense and often confusing, it creates a pleasing effect overall.
Hulme is not just challenging the traditional form of the novel.
Rather, she is helping to modify the way in which her culture approaches literature in general.
It also felt a little uncomfortable, but not totally absurd that this sensual woman was a virgin.Joe and Simon, have a very believable relationship & I shall mention that later; however, the apotheosis and resolution Joe experiences beggars belief.
So- it would have ended grimmer but more honest to the true subject matter if Simon had died; Kerewin died of cancer, and Joe, after release from gaol had lived in a little hut after meeting the old man.
