https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/22501.The_Origins_of_the_Second_World_War
In this sense perhaps the later peace and stability achieved by Germany was the logical outcome for a nation that was not evil but vengeful, and which had no grand plan for destruction but rather a belief – affirmed around the world at the time – that the Treaty of Versailles was a moral injustice whose wrongs must be righted.These academic matters, of course, should not obscure the simpler reality of the Second World War. There is no question that Hitler was evil and calculating to an extent perhaps unparalleled in the history of humankind.
The author puts an emphasis on certain written sources like Mein Kampf where Hitler argues that Germany needs territory in eastern Europe, and dismisses other sources like the Hossbach memorandum where he contemplates a war with Britain and France.Another problem with Taylor's views is that Hitler clearly planned for a war with the west from almost the beginning of his regime.
Hitler also constructed fortifications on the french border, informed his ministers and generals that he was willing to fight Britain and France over the Czech crisis in 1938, and repeatedly told his allies the Italians that they would fight the western powers together and dominate Europe.
Taylor liked to make pithy comments and outrageous claims; and his book set the course of writing about the origins of WWII for decades.
To his credit, in 1961 the received opinion was that Hitler had a plan, kept to the schedule, and that Germany alone was guilty.
What I don't accept is Taylor's contention that Hitler was a statesman in the traditional mode; and a crafty patient man who awaited events and let things fall into his lap.
I've read enough to believe that Hitler was an ideologue with a peculiar set of beliefs, and that he would make his decisions based on them.
A.J.P. Taylor’s publication of The Origins of the Second World War provoked controversy on its release in 1961 and gained Taylor a reputation as a revisionist.
General sentiment scolded Taylor for not putting enough blame on Hitler, a leader with no plan for starting the war, demonstrating no lust for global domination and expansion as a man reacting to the reparations of the Treaty of Versailles with anger and a determination to fix injustice.
The injustice he mostly blames on France’s fear for security, leading to deep resentment within every German community.
This book could have been titled "The Comedy Central Roast of British Foreign Policy in the Interwar Years." My favorite line is "[he] was as able intellectually as any British foreign secretary of the twentieth century -perhaps not a very high standard." We like to blame Hitler for World War II, but the Allied incompetence played a large part as well.
That rare book that makes you reconsider conventional wisdom. From the off, Taylor dispels commonly accepted wisdom such as the fact that the Nazis deliberately started the Reichstag fire. Taylor doesn’t dismiss that it as a possibility but says that there is no definitive evidence for it. Similarly, he refutes the notion that Germany was an all-powerful war machine before World War Two by pointing out that the UK and France had more tanks than Germany when war broke out.Taylor’s chief achieveme
Taylor disputes that Hitler planned for a war from the outset and argues that he saw himself as master of the world but “the world which he dreamt to master and the way he would do it changed with changing circumstances”.
Taylor is also refreshing on the infamous Molotov Ribbentrop pact and how the USSR chose a deal with the Germans: “the British wanted a pact that would defend others and so deter Hitler without war.
Taylor views the delay in the German attack on Poland as evidence of how certain he was of Western appeasement.
One and probably the only remarkable bright spot of this book, was its unconventional analysis of Hitler's militaristic actions and the attribution of causation to the Treaty of Versailles.
I feel that anyone with basic understanding in international politics and the principle of checks and balances should eventually approach the conclusion that Hitler's personal character didn't matter at all in the wake of the tremendous pressure unleashed upon the Germans from the Treaty of Versailles and later the Great Depression.
Apart from this supposedly unconventional retrospect there wasn't much different to expect in the book.
A very dense book, written in a dry style - don't expect lots of modern-style narrative, designed to
With the War in common memory, I can see that some people may have considered Taylor as an apologist for Hitler - even if that isn't obviously the case at much further distance from events.
I wonder if his "Second Word", at the beginning, laying his defense against that claim was accepted at the time.Either way, there's no disputing that this was probably one of the first books which laid the blame for the War on the shoulders of everyone concerned, rather than just Hitler, with mistakes and gambles on all sides.
Well worth reading for an early, relatively balanced study of the causes of the War.
El libro está muy bien. Su principal desventaja es que es muy viejo. Dice de sí mismo ser una visión no tan anti-nazi respecto al porqué del inicio de la segunda guerra. No me dio la sensación de ser exageradamente pronazi ni mucho menos. No tengo la menor idea el estado actual de esa discusión. Tal vez el libro sea útil para leer ciertos pasajes en un curso sobre el Origen de la segunda guerra, pero para el lego, me parece que no valió la pena. Por varios momentos me aburrió incluso.
I found it rather perplexing in places when the author refers to germany as a 'she'. I find this very contradicting considering, women have always been thought to be the weaker sex predominately up until the 20th century even. And up until present, germany was governed by male leadership as women in politics and law was considered laughable. Also 'rumania' was also perplexing, was romania renamed?
One of the foremost historians of this period.5 stars because this is such an interesting examination of events leading up to world war 2.Taylor is well respected an often quoted by fellow historians covering this important period of European, and world history. He often conflicts with traditional views.The book flows well and is such an interesting read.
Muy buen libro que nos sumerge en los por menores de los días previos a la invasión alemana de Polonia, que desencadenarían la WW2 , este libro demuestra que Hitler no fue el total responsable , ni Francia e Inglaterra fueron tan inocentes como la historia oficial nos quiere hacer creer
An immensely readable account of the origins of the Second World War.
Significant
I must have read this for fun. I had recently read Kissinger's 'Years of Upheaval' so he might have referenced it which led me to read the book. I don't remember it.
Regardless of whether you agree with Taylor's assessment of the origins of the Second World War (or the second half of the World War, as Taylor and his disciples, such as Niall Ferguson, might say), he fulfills an important role in any review of history, and that's to question the generally agreed narrative.
Now he has chosen shame – he’ll get war later.” Nevertheless, Taylor's book is an indispensable essay on the history of the War. You cannot say to have an understanding of the events that transpired without at least having read it, even if few or even none of Taylor's assessments ring true for you.
But by writing this, he (controversially) opened up the question, and by the time I came to study the subject for an O-level in 1984, it was old hat, even at that basic level.I suppose this is an example of why - although I am interested in history - I'm glad I'm not a historian.
They actually saw Hitler as a natural ally, more so that democratic France, and damned be Czechoslovakia and Poland, flawed but not brutal states.But to understand the causes of WW2 you need to understand the settlement of WW1, the inter-war global economy, and the causes/events of WW1.I'm not sure I'd *recommend* this book, but if you're studying this period at A-Level or beyond, it's pretty much essential reading.
THE ORIGINS OF THE SECOND WORLD WAR. (1961; this ed. 2008). A. J. P. Taylor. ****. This is not a book that you can pick up and read with no former knowledge of WW II or the various prevailing attitudes of historians after the fact. Taylor (1906-1990) was one of the most famous historians in england who dealt primarily with English history, but specialized in WW II. He became widely known because of his many appearances on TV in debates with other historians. This is the type of program that woul
Taylor (1906-1990) was one of the most famous historians in england who dealt primarily with English history, but specialized in WW II.
Alan John Percivale Taylor approached this history with an open mind and reached conclusions that were much different than those popular at the time.
Since every great state was capitalist in 1914, capitalism obviously ‘caused’ the First World War; but just as obviously it had ‘caused’ the previous generation of peace.” He goes on to make many general observations, like, “Wars, when they come, are always different from the war that is expected.
The frustration was on no part the fault of the author, but of the people within the book whose involvement in the build up to war make you want to scream, and it’s not necessarily the people you might expect.
The hypothesis here is not one of overall blame for Hitler.One can say whatever one likes about his final solution with regard to the Jews but as regards war, he did not start it.
Until the very morning of the attack on Warsaw the Poles refused to consider any relinquishment of Danzig, or even meet to discuss it with the Germans.Hitler had a major policy of letting events happen, and gambling upon them.
The Allies in 1933 had seen World War I as having one outcome: the Allies won and Germany lost.
The Germans, on the other hand, saw that conflict as having two outcomes: sure, they had lost in the west, but had won in the east.
Weimar statesmen agreed, but being weak at home, they could hardly try to re-enforce German hegemony over Slavic Europe.Hitler felt the same way, but with this difference: he intuitively realized that Germany, racked by inflation and depression, was a sleeping giant, and a strong and determined one-party state could make it great again.
Interesting book which seeks to upend the conventional narrative about the causes underlying the most devastating war in human history.
At the time of its original publication in the early 1960s, this book caused quite a lot of controversy, namely because Taylor had the intellectual confidence (some would call it arrogance) to put forth an investigation of the muddled, timid diplomacy of the West in the inter-war period which pins the blame for the war on a number of actors and events on all sides rather than taking the conventional, simplistic view that Hitler's inherent wickedness and unbridled ambition destabilized Europe and singlehandedly precipitated WWII.
The leaders of France, England, Italy, Czech, Poland, etc are also talked about a good deal.
Hitler is actually a pretty mysterious character in this book and if you are interested in learning about the personal life of Hitler (or his rise to power) I suggest reading something else.
Hitler's diplomatic character does take up a good amount of the book and is pretty cool.
He was a crazy dude and the people around him (England, France) were pretty afraid of him.
Most of the book deals with the meetings, treaties, policies, correspondences of the leaders of the great powers of Europe during the mid-1930s.

Taylor analyzes the data available at the time and clearly and concisely traces the reasons for the outbreak of the Second World War. Starting with the Treaty of Versailles and moving up through the new diplomatic outlook created from Locarno.
Germany's rise to power as an aggressor coupled with the timidity and stupidity at times of Great Britain and France allowed anarchy to slip into war.
Italy's reliance as a stable power was a huge miscalculation by the allies of Great Britain and France as Italy went to war in Ethiopia.
Highly recommend for those who wish to know more about why the war started.
Re reading this historical book has given me a new insight into how Hitler used conventional foreign diplomacy in most instances until the Second World War started.
This inaction by the British and French emboldened Hitler to aggressively pursue his territorial goals.This book does not give a unilateral view of how Hitler plotted from the beginning to start a World War. It strongly postulates that the British and French nascent foreign policy had as much bearing on the outcome as Hitler's doings.Taylor's introduction tries to counter his reputation as a Hitler apologist.
We all know Hitler was the cause of World War II along with Japan.
His thesis is Hitler had no plan for world wide conquest.
Instead, he attempts to portray Hitler as a Bismarck like leader who is only interesting in building the German nation.
As another reviewer as noted, it is frustrating reviewing once again all the mistakes the leaders of the Central European countries along with France and England (and also Russia) made in trying to negotiate with Hitler.
As some others have noted, it is difficult to accept Taylor's thesis Hitler was a mere nationalistic German leader.
The Origins of the Second World War was an approachable, understandable, and freestanding work of understanding the problems, and actions of European statesman following WWI and leading to the beginning of WWII.
It was a human tale, a tale of ego, philosophies, error, chance, and ass-covering.
A battle and gamble between appeasement and conciliation that helped no one.I don't believe this work vindicated anyone, if anything, it showed the folly of all those involved and put blame or whatever you'd like to attribute them to the responsible governments/regimes/statesman.

I have read a few accounts of World War 2 and some of my conclusions kind of align with Taylor's, that Hitler was not solely responsible for WW2, the allied powers have to shoulder some of the responsibility for the concessions they made to Hitler's Germany.
Would the war have happened if Hitler did not become dictator?
Taylor assumes the German people were in full support of Hitler, I would question this as well.
Nevertheless it is an incredibly detailed account of the events and political maneuverings leading to World War 2, sometimes a little too detailed.
