https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/149151.Cimarron
Set against the rough and tumble Oklahoma land rush of 1889 and continuing through the fledgling state’s formative years, Cimarron tells the story of the Cravat family, plucky pioneers settling one of America’s last frontiers.
It’s pretty much a one generation, historical family saga – much like I imagine a Mitchener book might be – and (truth be told) a genre that I usually can’t be bothered with.
but I found this one … a little bit charming?Ferber picks a great setting for her story.
Cimarron marks the end (for now) of my excursion into Edna Ferber's works, and it embodies many of the strengths and flaws Ferber portrays in all her stories.On the plus side, we have strong, almost painfully realistic characters.
There is a demanding undercurrent of no-nonsense tell-it-like-it-is beneath Ferber's romanticism, just as there are startling cliche busters hiding behind the melodrama.
They aren't always lovable, but they're always intriguing.However, Cimarron also suffers from the same flaws as do the rest of her books.
Ferber knows how to pick the telling details and she can turn a beautiful phrase.
There are two excellent film versions (in my opinion, some people don't like either version) of this novel, one in 1930 starring Irene Dunne and another in 1960 starring Maria Schell.
In the films, Sabra becomes sympathetic over time.
In the novel, she remains fairly racist throughout and is always aghast at something her husband does.
The film versions manage to effectively soften her with time, thereby enabling us to see her as a pioneer.
The novel lacked everything that I loved about "So Big!" -- the woman's strength of character, the well-drawn supporting characters, the lived-in passage of time.
(Also worth noting that the Vice-President of the United States at the time the film was made was actually descended from the Osage tribe, and remains the only Native American to have served at the top of the executive branch.) The one Jewish character is sympathetically treated in both book and film, but the nasty anti-Semitism of the baddies in the book doesn't make it to the screen.The feminism of the book is completely erased by the film, in that Yancey is given much more screen time and better lines (though his defence of the Indians is removed), and we are cut off from Sabra's internal dialogue, which is the loudest voice in the novel; it is replaced by Turner’s sighs and meaningful glances.
Set in fictional Osage, Cimarron is the story of Sabra and Yancey Cravat, whose relationship could be seen as a metaphor for the settling and taming of the Indian territories.Sabra, the main protagonist, is a typical Ferber female heroine: smart, strong, self-sufficient, principled and independent.
Like the character, Salina, in So Big, Sabra is unable to influence those she cares the most about.Yancey is an almost mythic character, larger than life, as big and wild and temperamental as the land the story is set in.
Another strong Ferber novel. This one reads like a practice run for Giant: genteel woman goes into the Wild West, finds she's stronger than she knew. Giant is the far better novel, though, with this one having a rushed ending and feeling like a compressed epic. There are also several troubling-for-today's-times depictions of African-Americans, Native Americans, and Jews. Be prepared to put things in the context of the age, and you can still find a lot to enjoy here.
I was introduced to these characters as a short story in the 7th grade. Our class was so enthralled with it; the teacher told us that it was an excerpt from a book. We begged to read it – and she adjusted the curriculum to accommodate it. I am quite sure that I read it at least six times during my high school years. Loved the story, the characters and the history lesson.
Dear Jebus, what a crap-load of depression!
This is a tale of the settling of the Oklahoma Territory beginning with the first run for land.
When Yancey Yarbrough return from the first run without the land he went after he is still determined to return to the territory.
This is their story of the transformation of a Territory into a state and while the characters are fictional most of the things that the author has written about happened.Two movies were made based on this novel and while most consider the 1930's one the best, I find the acting portrayed by Dix to somewhat ridiculous and comical.

I found it a rollicking good read, filled with great history, adventure and awesome flawed characters.
As far as heroes or anti-heroes go, Yancey is one of the greats.
He's a macho, heady adventurer, a die-hard frontiersman and a defender of the Native Americans.
Likewise, his wife Sabra, the book's main character, exhibits both positive and negative characteristics and remains committed to her own points of view.
I didn't love Sabra, but I found her interesting.
I loved Yancey, flawed as he is.
The occasional dips from heady romantic adventure into dark and tragic moments kept this book real and interesting.
Yancey and Sabra Cravat (Edna Ferber really had a thing for coming up with horrible names) move from Wichita, Kansas to Oklahoma at the time of the land rush.
The second land rush, across the Cherokee Strip, which claimed Cherokee land by the homesteaders, barely gets a mention.
Yancey is not only an educated man, smart, brave, and kind, but also the best shot there is.
Yancey is too perfect in a setting where he would have certainly been killed.
I will continue to read Ferber because some of her novels are pretty good, but this isn't one of them.
An amazing novel, published in 1929, regarding the settling of Oklahoma.
The first film adaptation in 1931 was met with success, however, the remake in 1960 was not successful.
I'm glad I did not get the film from the library, but rather the book.
The grit and determination of the main characters, Yancey and Sabra Cravat, will have you wondering how they survived.
The other players and events in the book grab and hold you.
Oh, by the way, Yancey is modeled after the last child of Sam Houston.
So glad my Classic Book Club chose this one.
I could not get through this book. It was a slow read with slow character development. I could not get past the racism and Yancey I did not find endearing but a classic A-hole. I understand it was written in the 1920s but I did not like it. The narrative was boring and I was waiting for some action. No actual action unless something happened that was exciting but that was told through Yancey. However, I did like reading it for the historical content of Oklahoma and it's time-period.
I really love Edna Ferber. There are passages in this book that are just beautiful. The plot kept me reading when I had plenty of other things that I should have been doing. The characters are intriguing and fully fleshed out. Sabra, the main character, is a heroine for the ages. Such an enjoyable read!
I'll give it between 3 and 4 stars, because I enjoyed it but not as much as So Big. I was concerned about the amount of racism prevalent in the book, particularly in the earlier chapters, but it was generally tempered by Yancey's opinions.
As Edna Ferber points out in the Forward, “Only the more fantastic and improbable events contained in the book are true.” A sage fiction of engaging events and thrilling characters, Cimarron sits on the highest shelf of my western library. --Tom Van Dyke, Author/Screenwriter
Fantastic- !!!!
A hard book to resist - definitely showing its age and slightly off-putting at times, but it's still a great feminist epic with very cinematic characters.
Cimarron, by Edna Ferber, is a long, gangly novel set in territorial Oklahoma.
She spends pages describing the scenery, the way the moss hangs from trees, and how women living the imaginary frontier town of Osage dress.
Ferber tells a wonderful story.Cimarron begins in progressive Wichita before the first Oklahoma Territory Land Rush.
Both Sabra and Oklahoma find themselves through the pages of this fat read.
There is a final scene with Sabra and Yancey but, by then, the story was already over and it comes off without emotion.
I very much enjoyed this account of early day Oklahoma.
Several archetypes of the American West were evident here, and I suspect that this work, along with at least two movie adaptations, helped make them iconic.
Some racist overtones mar enjoyment of certain passages or episodes; Ferber and her characters--Yancey, anyway--seem to subscribe to the "noble savage" line of thinking, while an African-American character played out as a "shufflin' fool" (my words, not hers--quotation marks for distance), though perhaps in the day of its publication, its representations were progressive.It is a powerful and evocative portrait of the mad rush of settlement.
Would like to see movie adaptations.
While I loved this book for its sharply-observed history and situations--especially since it is set in the place I grew up, and then researched again for my second book, STRIKE PRICE--the late 1920s stereotypes are breathtakingly bad.
In it, the lone Native American character is a simple stereotype, really just a plot device.
I spent years living and working a few miles west of Osage, and the play/movie August: Osage County neglects the Native American history, cultural wealth, and people of the area in a way far more tragic than the plot of the play itself.
An interesting throwback to heroines of the silver screen.
An interesting read, but not one I will partake of again.
The writing was interesting and vibrant, but it lacked, for me, the in-depth view of characters that I so desperately wanted to understand.
It was as if I was reading a biography of a character with no real understanding of who they were and how they became that way except for small glimpses at a time.
Overall, a book I would recommend reading once if you enjoy books such as Gone with the Wind, but don't expect to finish it with any sort of lightness to your thoughts.
Many years ago, I read Ferber's book So Big, and really enjoyed it.
So I thought I would read another.
Cimarron is the story of the 1889 Run in Oklahoma and the years after that with the oil production, Indian relationships, etc.
One thing very interesting: The book was written in 1930 and has a fantastic vocabulary.
If I was very compulsive I would have read it with the dictionary next to me.
The story was good, but I didn't find it to be great.
So, an interesting read about the wild clay paths of Oklahoma in the early 1900's but not a great read.
The tale of the historical characters was presented to be more accurate than what we had learned from Hollywood - no great surprise!
This is the story of a silly, young girl who runs the way to the Wild West - well sot of, since her home was San Francisco, following a man who she thinks will be the answer to her prayers.
(Such silliness and naïveté leaves me cold.) Eventually she finds that the man of her dreams is not a good man, and she gets taken advantage of.
Perhaps this is a true rendering of this historical event.
The book is very dated and politically incorrect especially in regard to the Indians.
At first I thought the book was going to be about Yancey, but Sabra is the strong willed woman who carves civilization out of the red dirt of Oklahoma.
I cringed when reading how Sabra thinks about the Indians that were forced to come to Oklahoma.
Despite her flaws it is Sabra who stays even when Yancey has disappeared again.
Instead of returning to the false security of her parents home she stays and fights to make Oklahoma a respected place.
Having just finished working on an Oklahoma History class online with a student, this book was fun in that it talked about many of the events of early Oklahoma and famous people of Oklahoma like David Payne.
The fact that this was well liked by the people of the early 30s isn't a surprise as it would seem that many folk from that time were hungry for American history and especially stories of "the west" and/or the "wild" country.
If you are a history buff, you will probably enjoy this novel.
Otherwise, it is probably a dry read.
I read this book as part of the curriculum for a "Women Writing the West" course, and it was one of the more enjoyable reads. This text was also adapted into a film (available for free viewing on YouTube). Of course, the two texts go their separate ways, but it was an interesting comparison. We don't hear much of Ms. Ferber in contemporary lit courses, but she was a widly popular author, and deservedly so. She reins in her vast vocabulary for a mainstream audience, but her poetic voice is not lost in this portrait of the American "frontier myth."
Pioneering the frontier of Oklahoma, Yancey and Sabra Cravat enter the territory after the Run of 1889. Although Yancey, who opens a newspaper and law office in the fictional town of Osage, near the Osage Indian Reservation, is a character bigger than life, it is his wife who remains tied to the land and carves a life for herself and family out of the harsh forbidding plains. A story reminiscent of Absalom, Absalom by William Faulkner, without the hard to read stream of conscious writing style.
