https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/33737.Manhunting
If you're feeling blah and want a good laugh - along with a wonderful romance - you can't get better than this!Kate Svensen is thirty-five, gorgeous and has a successful career.
But the two are honest with each other and begin spending a lot of time together because they believe they are "safe" with each other.All their well-laid plans are blown to shreds when love takes over and then the fun really begins!Manhunting is a classic Jennifer Crusie tale filled with humorous situations, tons of witty dialogue that is simply about two people who love spending time together.
There are times when I crave a night of romantic comedies. Manhunting fulfills this hunger in book form. Is it mindless? Yes.It is predictable? Yup.Is it for everyone?Probably not. But that's okay!For those of you that adore a cute little love story, this is it! I don't know if it's because I haven't read any chick lit lately, but I let my emotions rush with Kate (the main character). I swooned, I hoped for the best and got what I/she wanted.I guess I was in that type of mood. :)
I really liked her learning to parse her own interior preferences and emotional landscape, even as she's trying to figure out the men around her.But what sold the book was combining all of that with some truly laugh-out-loud moments—and I don't mean the slapstick (though that wasn't out of place, either, really, even though I'm not usually a fan).
I can't believe this is her first published book.A note about Steamy: On the high side of mild with two and a half explicit scenes and a few flirty episodes of varying degrees of sexy.
4.5 starsAt 35 years of age, Kate Svenson seemed to have it all except a fulfilling personal relationship with....Ta Da!......a man.
She needed a good man.
Crisp dialog that sparkles at select times.
At times, her romances have reminded me of Kristan Higgins' stories.
They contain a like-able H/h but you still want to throttle them.If you enjoy the opposites-attract trope and are willing to ignore some minor datedness (it was first published in 1993) MANHUNTING might be something you would enjoy.
I liked Anyone But You, I enjoyed Bet Me but, by far, this is my favorite Crusie romance.
Lucy McGillicuddy looks for a husband. What could go wrong goes wrong for every man who tries to get close to the heroine, finally the hero tries his luck. That by itself would have made a good story but Crusie steps it up a pace with angst and true love pushing itself forward. Great story!
Stretching this to 3 stars. Cute, maybe a little too cute. Not as good as Maybe This Time
4.5* This book was so much fun!
I loved every minute of it.
The characters (all of them) were well done, the writing was hilarious without being slap-stick, and the dialog was sharp and witty.
I only wish it was twice as long!
Crusie is sort of hit-and-miss with me, I loved Bet Me, and enjoyed Anyone But You. However, I didn't care for parts of Fast Women (too cynical about marriage) and I have attempted and not finished Welcome to Temptation twice.
After reading Manhunting, I'll definitely be giving more of Ms. Crusie's books a try, and I might even go back to the highly praised Welcome to Temptation.
Chick lit category.Setting / Time / Genre: Current or rather more like early turn of the century.
This century though.Series: I do not believe it isSexy times: Yes. But something like a 2 out of 5 so do what you will with that.
Hero Heroine was right, he thinks he is some kinda zen cowboy sitting and hardly moving / being one with the world.
At the end when the brother heaves his (view spoiler)[ girlfriend to the curb, heroine does not let him get away with blaming it all on her.
This book was a total hoot because it had two characters who practiced self-delusion perfectly, the heroine with her corporate life and three engagements she broke off, who wanted to have a companion, someone smart and successful and definitely not like the hero Jake who does nothing, ever since he quit his job as a tax attorney in the city and invested all his money in the resort run by his brother and that is where these two meet.The hero doesn't want to do anything or so he tells himself as he pretends to fish and manages the outside of the resort, he is totally not looking for someone like Kate instead he doesn't want anybody after all his marriage was a disaster with a wife who tried to make him more ambitious.Seeing Kate's date was so hilarious, all of them ended up injured in some way, then there was the young engaged Penny.
⭐⭐⭐⭐ 4 stars ⭐⭐⭐⭐I really enjoyed this one!It's part of my "Conquer all Jennifer Crusie's books quest" !If you needed a little motivation to read this one... Here is what I had the surprise to find in it... [image error]
⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️ 4 stars ⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️I really enjoyed this one!It's part of my "Conquer all Jennifer Crusie's books quest" !If you needed a little motivation to read this one... Here is what I had the surprise to find in it... [image error]
I loved this book. I always like a good love-hate relationship, this was particularly witty and enjoyable. All her dates made me laugh so hard! Great RomCom!
Tai jau antra Jennifer Crusie mano skaitoma knyga.
Pradėjus skaityti, kaip ir knygoje "Lažinamės" autorė labai gerai perteikia veikėjus per dialogus, kuria aiškius personažus.
Nežinau ar tai būdinga visoms jos knygoms, bet ji kuria intrigą ir dramą suvesdama du žmonės, kuriems atrodo, kad jie vienas kitam netinka, bet galiausiai jie atsiduoda aistrai.
Na, nors man ir labai patiko "Lažinamės", bet ten kaip ir čia man kažko pritrūko.
Bet man be galo patinka jos rašymo stilius: lengvas, konkretus, gyvas ir tikrai šmaikštus.
Skaityti Nicholą Sparksą ar Jojo Moyes man truputi prailgdavo dėl sausoko (palyginus su Jennifer Crusie) stiliaus.
Bet čia mano asmeninė patirtis.
This book was hilarious! It is so hard to write a good romantic comedy. This is the first book I've read by this author and checked it out simply because I wanted to read a pink book. Usually I read books where there is a really good romance but not much of a plot, or a really good plot without much of a romance. I felt like this book had both. There were some major steamy scenes, so watch out, but this was one of the funniest books I've ever read.
This book was hilarious. You pretty much guess how it’s ending from page 5 or 6… but getting there is truly funny!The bantering is great, witty, and irresistible.This book is a quick, happy, and easy read. It’s perfect if you’re looking for a literary romantic gateway.There’s one xrated scene towards the end, if you’re not into that skip a few pages, the story is great anyway.
Really good story!Loved Kate!Jack certainly took his time getting his head out of his ass, but in the end it well worth the wait!
No, this isn't a usual justification of those who try to play down how entertaining something is only because it's a genre some people tend to look down on.
"Well, this place is crawling with secure guys, You shouldn't have any problems finding one." "So far, crawling is the right word for the men I've met," Kate said.
Both are smart, funny and entertaining.
The men Kate dates are all over the place in a good way.
I loved Penny, the young woman whom Kate meets at the Cabins resort.
I loved how Kate recognized her own social flaws compared to Penny's way of socializing.
Cute, fluffy, and predictable, this is very definitely early Crusie. While it is rather clichéd, and the writing is not technically strong—and I'm sorry, but I don't think I'll ever find a man with a moustache attractive—there is still enough spark in the banter and creativity in the humour to make it more than just a run-of-the-mill Harlequin romance novel. It passed an enjoyable hour or so in work, and if you like Crusie or romance novels in general, you'll probably enjoy this—just don't pick it up expecting to engage your brain.
I loved her early encounters with Jake though, and could have spent plenty of pages more with the both of them on the lake.I did feel that Kate went through bigger inner growth than Jake, and especially after his dicklike behavior in the last conflict, I wished for him to make a bigger turn around at the end.I liked all side-characters, but was slightly surprised how HUGE a dick Will turned out to be.
Funny and cute! :)
This book was a fluffy, adorable thing. It is funny and light!
**Audiobook Review**(Yet another Kate and Jake character book.
Are authors contracted to do at least one book with these character names?
There are literally millions of names out there - why these over and over?!)Kate has a plan for falling in love, and successful businesswoman that she is, she's sure it will work too.
All she has to do is stay one step ahead of an apparent dating curse and make sure she keeps slow-moving, lazy Jake squarely in the friend zone.
OMGGGGG ITS SO GOOD I FINISHED IT IN ONE SITTING...it's such an easy and cute read!! im so glad i come upon this book i was literally so desperate for a good chick lit literally at 12 midnight....and i got what i wanted yay! i lost sleep for school for this HAHAH bc i couldn't stop reading until 3am!
- and how Jake turns out to be what Kate needs - it's so delightful!) :-)I laugh out loud a LOT every time I read this book.
(hide spoiler)] It's such a sad and poignant scene.Another, huge, LOL moment happens on page 122, when Kate (view spoiler)[is at Nancy's and Jake has just given her a cup of coffee, because he's "just trying to make sure your liver lasts until you get back to the city." (This is from page 120.) After some back and forth, Kate says, "You make it sound like I'm a lush.
. .Well, I've read it so many times that Kate and Jake are, like Lucy and Zack (from Getting Rid of Bradley), among my bestest friends.
I've read almost all of Jennifer Crusie's books and I love that her female characters are always so realistic and a little bit on the crazy side.
Armed with a checklist of her perfect guy, Kate makes her way to a resort in hopes of finding the guy that meets all her requirements.
If you like chick lit romances, you definitely need to try out Jennifer Crusie's books!
Manhunting meets all of our chick-lit requirements!***Read full review & more of my reviews at  Nick & Nereyda’s Infinite Booklist 
There were good parts - the dialogue, especially between the romantic leads, sparkled and the leads themselves sizzled from time to time, and there wasn't a vampire or werewolf in sight - but much of the rest was rather uneven, and I often felt like I was being told what was happening, rather than being shown (the writerly dictum being "show, don't tell").The premise strained my credulity somewhat, I admit, but this may be because I found it so unromantic.
The difference between Kate and me, in that sense, was that I was hoping to find love, not a business partner I could have sex and breakfast with.
Her and her friend Jessie decide that Kate needs to attack marriage as if it were a business plan.
No. Kate comes up with her plan of what the perfect man will be, and Jessie sends her out to a resort in the middle of nowhere in a small town to find that perfect man.
Jake has taken to sleeping on rowboats, ordering people to mow the lawn and otherwise moving at a turtle like pace.
He wants nothing to do with Kate's plan and is relieved when she says she isn't interested in him.
Fast paced, easy read that kept me entertained until I finished it.
When Kate gets to the resort she soon finds out that her plan has too many holes that she didn’t take into account.
Then there’s Jake who doesn’t fit into her plan, but Kate finds herself spending an awful lot of time out on the lake with him wasting time that she should be spending on putting her plan into action.I love Crusie’s writing, her books always promise a fun time.
Jake and Kate were great to watch interact and it was fun to see them both gradually changing.
The side characters were all fun too, I especially liked Nancy and the atmosphere of her bar.
edit April.'16Nothing new to add, it's just as fun and cute and easy to read as the other times.
And while the overall idea that people fall in love within a week and just overturn their entire life after that is very far fetched for me it is still a wonderful and very entertaining read!Highly recommend if you want something fun, funny and cute to read!
The entire book is so nice and fun and easy to read i can only recommend it to everyone that enjoyed a very easy and fun chick-lit-flick book between other more heavy or just in general the easy and fun reads.
I know that for a lot of folks WTT and Bet Me are the best Crusie reads, but this one is my favorite. I've had lots of guy friends, so I love that these two start out as friends. It's so much fun watching them "fishing" and I love how much enjoyment he gets as she manages to cripple every man she dates. I love, too, the way the realization that there's more going on than the friendship just slaps both of them upside the head. (Yes, I've experienced that, too.) This is my go-to for guaranteed laugh-out-loud fun.
Another fun read from Crusie. It turns out this is actually her first book, reprinted with a much less embarrassing cover (poor Jennifer), and it shows, a little. Not her strongest novel, but fun and silly, and the hero has a mustache. Thought that was worth mentioning. Oh, and someone gets stabbed with a fork! I lol'd, as it were.She really is good at banter. These characters can go back and forth with the best of them, and I have a huge weakness for solid banter.
