https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7668.Rising_Sun
This 90s story begins strongly with good character development before diving down and meandering around how great the Japenese economy is. 1991-2001 is often referred to as Japan's, "lost decade," economically. So, not so fast the late Mr. Crichton. 3 of 10 stars
While informative, I feel that Crichton was at times overly pessimistic.
He draws a picture of the Japanese annexing the American economy and Japan itself surpassing the US in every degree of first-world status (including GDP).
And while he does raise some compelling points, I’m not sure how well the passage of time has supported his assertions.
Crichton seemed fully confident in 1992 that the Japanese economy will soon and inevitably surpass that of the US.
Also our debt to GDP ratio is around 1.2 while Japan’s is at a monstrous 2.6.Crichton may have been slightly out of bounds with the doom and gloom in this novel.
Connor – a man who has extensive knowledge of the Japanese people and some pretty useful Japanese contacts as well.This book is not just a murder mystery written to entertain the readers – the author is actually trying to impress upon the readers, what he thinks is the harsh reality of  “Japan’s economic behavior, and America’s inadequate response to it”.
The Japanese motto of “Business is war”  is not only mentioned a lot of times but demonstrated throughout the story.It’s not just business, but according to Crichton the Japanese are a racist people who always look down upon other non-Japanese people.
In the 80s the big American fear, especially in California, was that the Japanese businesses were going to take over.
Overally, a very good read but not great.For those who didn't see the movie a pair of American investigators are called in to investigate a murder connected with Japanese business.
One of the investigators is very much "pro Japanese" and the other could care less.
It's something of a Historical piece now but back in the 80s I'm sure some people felt the Japanese were going to get their revenge for WWII and buy America out.
I love this book. I read this book on 2010 and until now its still my favorite. This books is telling us a story how contrast it is American culture and Japanese culture. American is much more brass and outspoken. Japanese is much more secluded and honoring seniority. I love how the author narrates the story and focusing on the culture contrast.
Such a great thriller! Check out my full review on my booktube channel http://youtube.com/peterlikesbooks
This 90s story begins strongly with good character development before diving down and meandering around how great the Japenese economy is. 1991-2001 is often referred to as Japan's, "lost decade," economically. So, not so fast the late Mr. Crichton. 3 of 10 stars
The whodunit that fills the first half of the book concerns a beautiful young American woman found raped and strangled in an LA office building owned by a powerful Japanese corporation.
The "strong woman", a part-Japanese computer whiz, plays a considerable role in the story, but mostly exists to vouch for Japan's prejudice against foreigners (Crichton repeatedly calls them "the most racist people on Earth") and to provide the sorriest attempt at sexual tension I've ever read.
In the world of Rising Sun, women are either spiteful, subservient, distractingly hot, or dead.Japan, of course, lost interest in buying up America, and it was no thanks to fearmongerers like Crichton.
Michael Crichton is a very interesting writer. He takes a subject that he is interested in, researches it fully and then crafts a story around the research.The blurb for "Rising Sun" describes it as a business thriller. There aren't actually any thrills in it, but it is very interesting, as a description of how Japanese big business is buying corporate America.I enjoy learning stuff while I'm reading, but if you just wanted a thriller, this might not be for you.
This one is a crime/mystery/detection story integrated within a time where the United States and Japan were involved in technological industry wars so as to take a lead against each other. Although the story itself was decent, reading the information penned by the author with regard to the American attitudes towards the Japanese way of making business and vice-versa, at the time, along with their prejudices and understandings was very interesting to read, and which is based on thorough research. Other than that nothing great here.
All of his books have some kind of lesson to be learned, typically it's the dangers of fast-growing technology, but his best novels show the reader why this is a problem instead of insistently telling us.
So, due to his constant rants about the Japanese taking over America, I must give this book two stars, even though I found the murder mystery to be suspenseful and interesting.
I think the Japanese taking over must be an out-dated fear, because I have never heard such fears, but he does make good points about our economy going too far into debt and other countries passing us in education and industry.
4.0 to 4.5 stars. My favorite Michael Crichton novel. I remember reading this book when it first came out and thinking is was a terrific read. I plan to re-read it at some point to see if it has aged well.
Rising Sun feels a bit dated now that Japan has experienced it's "Lost Decade" and China has become a dominant economic power, but it's still a well-written and engaging thriller.
It kind of loses steam after the car chase with Eddie, if the reader is not careful they will be dragged into a morass of technical information about various forms of video tape and how they can be altered, even though these details are semi important to the plot this section could've been cut way down in my opinion, but if you can avoid getting bogged down it really picks up at the end.
The eventual culprit was pretty easy to guess but you'll enjoy the way Crichton gets there.
A good reminder for readers like me that he wrote more than creature features.
Can you say 'arigatou gozaimasu'......Mr. Chricton for a whirlwind lesson in Japaneeeseeee. I can almost speak the language now...wow. One should received college credit or at the very least a full c.e.u. for completing this novel. Seriously, I feel like I spent three weeks on 'Shogun'. In any event, an very eventful and satisfying read (listen in my case). When someone suggests you lay off the bigger than life, too good to be true Japanese business deal, believe it! Sayounara tomodachi.Even better the second time around.
After two duds in a row I felt like something snappy and Michael Crichton will certainly deliver snappy.If I had ever read this book before, it was at least 8 to 10 years ago but I kept thinking how familiar the story was, and after just a few pages it dawned on me that I had watched the movie a gazillion times.
As soon as I made that connection (how could I have forgotten?!) I saw the movie in my head as I read the book.
I actually liked the visions of Sean Connery and Wesley Snipes dancing snappily in my head as they rushed around trying to catch up to the killer.
Solid read.
Good, not great, but better than most.
Not my favorite Chrichton book, but better than most I've read.
It's a unique detective story.
While Japan isn't anywhere near the economic threat to the United States like it was in the past (that title now belongs to global debt levels), this was still an interesting read.
While the story was good, the real value here is a look inside the Japanese culture.
Reading is fun, but it's even better when you learn something about the world.
Recommended as much for the education of a foreign culture as the entertainment.
Listening to Michael Crichton -- at least judging by this one outing -- is very different than reading Michael Crichton.
I know, I know, listening to anything is different than reading, but I was shocked to discover how much lecturing Crichton does in his books.
Crichton's xenophobia towards the Japanese is so pressurized it blows the top off the thermometer and sends mercury spilling everywhere, and it makes some portions of the story nearly unreadable.
Rising Sun is far from Crichton's best, and it could be close to his worst, but I still found myself plowing through the audiobook version at top speed.
This seemed such a departure from what Michael Crichton normally writes about. It just seemed an odd genre for him to tap into, and I'm sorry to say, he didn't pull it off. If you're looking for a great Crichton book to read, move along to just about any of the others..... which, by the way, are plentiful. I'm am a fan of Crichton's for some books.
I distinctly remember watching two newscasts from this time concerning Japan.
One talked about people's fear of Japanese 'interests' buying up significant portions of the U.S. The other showed video clip of people venting their anger over Japanese imports by destroying a Toyota pickup with baseball bats and the reporter (off-screen) explaining that the truck was built in the U.S. at the time.
This book was written during this time period and I felt that Crichton was at best exploiting an irrational fear of some people that was also a 'hot topic' at the time.
At worst, this book was racist towards Japanese.
Perhaps it is because this book has an out of date topic, but I found the constant "Japanese taking over America" rants to be a bit much. It took away from the overall mystery of the murder case, which in itself was interesting and intriguing. If it weren't for that preaching, I would have managed 3 stars.
Underwhelming and transparent would be the two words I would use for this novel by Crichton.Starring two completely replaceable and indistinct noir detectives, we find ourselves tugged along an unnecessarily winding plot filled with conveniently entertaining twists and turns and at the center; a sexy femme fatale lies dead without panties.Here are the tropes that this novel is a slave to: 1.) A car chase between the police and a sports car that ends in a flaming wreck.
3.) Naked women distract the police so their man can get away!
7.) The chief of police is really riding the detectives!
The cold hard facts he states, through the eyes and ears and mouths of his characters, about the Japanese and their business practices and America's inability to respond to either, mostly out of ignorance, innefeciency, and a desire to, at whatever cost, not come across as offensive or racist, is spot on.
Practices and behaviors that, thank God, are not accepted or tolerated in the west, and Crichton is NOT afraid to write about that issue and call a spade a mother lovin' spade.
This book ranks as a close second as my favorite Crichton work, first being "State of Fear."
Really good, but dated in the cultural/political context.
Crichton picked up on this irritation and, in more than a few ways, directed it out to the Japanese people themselves while still expressing envy about their culture.The central story of the book is a murder mystery.
In the years since the book was written the World Trade Organization (WTO) stepped in a few times to sanction Japan for dumping computer chips in the US market, meanwhile US corporations seem to be determined to continue a downward spiral of underpaying workers, overpaying executives, sending manufacturing to Asia, and then wondering why the American consumer can't afford their products.
Well, this my first book by Michael Crichton and I enjoyed it. My rating would have to be closer to three stars but it had a nice plot, fast pace, something easy to get into but not to figure out. Recommended.
I have to be in the mood to read Crichton & I had this book around for years before I got to it. It was very absorbing. Nothing too special, but a well done thriller.
Honestly, just what I needed at the moment. I’m not a huge crime novel fan but sometimes as well placed crime thriller just hits the spot, kind of like a well placed gin and tonic on the right night. Big fan of the Japanese-American relations theme, especially knowing that Sean Connery played Sempai to Wesley Snipes in the 1993 film adaptation. This was my first novel by Crichton. I plan on riding this wave right into Andromeda Strain
Only one man can identify and effectively communicate with the Japanese - enter Captain Connor, played deliciously well by the ultimate Sean Connery in the movie adaptation of the book.Crichton, who must be fluent in Japanese, intersperse random Japanese phrases and customs throughout the book.
In Crichton's novel, Theresa and Lt. Smith do not end up together, there exists no previous relationship between Theresa and Captain Connor, and Ishigoro, the Japanese employee, is the real murderer as opposed to an entirely different character in the movie.
Michael Crichton- Rising Sun (Ballantine Books 1993) 3.75 StarsWhen a woman is murdered in the beautiful new Nakamoto Tower in L.A. at its grand opening, an investigation begins.
Connor teaches him much about Japanese culture and helps him understand their actions.
Can they solve the case before it ruins the lives of everyone involved?After reading Rising Sun I have decided that this is my favourite Crichton book.
Crichton masterfully weaves around the truth, giving you glimpses of what might be reality, only to take a totally different path.
These sections slowed down the pace and made me wonder why we really needed all the information we were given.
Rising Sun was a tough one to get through. It wasn't extremely long, but without having any prior knowledge of Japanese business or customs I found myself boggled by the details. Once finished, I felt it was a satisfying read, but not something I would have an interest in reading again. Rising Sun is a must for the more rabid Michael Crichton fans, but casual readers should pass this one by.
