https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/14187.The_Cosmic_Puppets
You see someone who looks like your friend: younger, taller, more hair, broader of shoulder and smaller of waist.
See the younger self, not older nor wiser, but green, full of kinetic energy and verve.This is how I read Philip K.
The reader sees a novelist bursting with energy and with fresh ideas and even the first steps of the deep journeys he would later undertake.Recalling both Ray Bradbury and H.P. Lovecraft, The Cosmic Puppets is about a small, isolated Virginia town that has been collectively caught in a complicated illusion, the townspeople altered to a strange and different reality.
I wanted to make a good choice because, if I chose an inferior book, I might not try another.
So well that I feel confident that I will want to read through his oeuvre.Perhaps The Cosmic Puppets seems an odd choice for my second book, but I actually put some thought into it.
Reading it with the knowledge that Dick's work would progress over the next twenty-five years, I found it to be a very promising beginning.The first half of the book has a Bradburyesque small town setting and a Twilight Zone vibe which I enjoyed.
This fight is being waged by proxy using two of the town's more precocious tweens (Mary and Peter).The novel starts like a typical Rod Sterling production, but like PKD is want to do, it quickly transforms and expands into something almost out of an H.P. Lovecraft novel (Lyn, I love reading your review AFTER and discovering a similar vibe).
Here is a guy, in his youth, writing a pulply Sci-Fi novel and he can't help jump from campy Sci-Fi into a bizarre Zoroastrian battle that is both across the Universe and in a small Virginia town.
Il sole estivo inondava le fattorie sulla collina, le distese verde scuro cosparse di arbusti e di alti pini, i cedri svettanti, l’alloro più tenero, i pioppi.” Ted Barton convince la moglie Peg ad accompagnarlo nella sua cittadina natale: Millgate.
Ma forse lui non era Ted Barton.
Ma se non era Ted Barton, chi era?”Una disperata ricerca della propria identità che si credeva salda e si è rivelata, invece, inconsistente.Una realtà apparente che maschera un substrato dove è in atto un’eterna e crudele lotta tra il bene ed il male.
While not among PKD's best, this is a fairly decent read.
It combines several of his perennial obsessions: alternate realities, uncertain identities and Manichaeism.
Another frequent obsession here seems to be ...
PKD takes the time to mention just about every female character's breasts.
They almost seem to have an active life of their own: sweating, heaving, glowing and sometimes just being "thick." I wasn't sure if PKD was feeling poorly weaned when he wrote this novel, of if he was pandering to a pulp SF audience.
The final scene of the novel suggests the running mammary theme was meant to be tongue-in-cheek.
On a road trip to Florida with his almost estranged wife, Ted Barton wants to stop off at Millgate, the Virginia town he left as a young man eighteen years before, They find the town, but everything about it has changed.
Then Ted finds his name in an old newspaper, a victim of scarlet fever in 1935.The Cosmic Puppets is pure fantasy -- no science fiction involved.
Mary and Peter do not get along.
(Just their bum luck.) Ted and the town drunk who somehow escaped "the change" have to will the real Millgate back into existence.There are some creepy elements here, mostly dependent upon how you feel about spiders and rats.
There’s strong speculation from the inhabitants of Millgate that Ted Barton has actually arrived in the wrong town.The Cosmic Puppets, Rats, Children and Thematic PonderingsWhat is theme of The Cosmic Puppets?
Looking back at even a mainstream a novel like Mary And The Giant, we see the Joe Schilling character leering over the schoolgirls in their uniforms.And however unjustified the observation, there’s a specific scene in The Cosmic Puppets where Mary strips off and smears oil over her naked girl body to ‘appease a captured golem and not freak it out’ that is so over-the-top voyeuristic as to be the closest Dick has ever come to pushing beyond the veil of good taste.
Very strange entry in the early PKD canon, kinda twilight zone like. starts with a Under the Dome like set but goes in a weird Cosmic horror direction.Full review in the Dickheads episode:https://soundcloud.com/dickheadspodca...
The Cosmic Puppets was a professional expansions of a magazine tale and reveal his fingerprints to hindsight; interestingly returns a man to his home-town which, overlaid by manufactured illusion, serves as a battleground for two warring forces who bear the aspects of Ormazd and Ahriman (the opposing principles of Zoroastrian cosmology). Dick's Paranoia about godlike manipulations of consensual reality marks a theme he would obsessively repeat in less crude form.
Come reso chiaro dalla splendida e immancabile prefazione di Pagetti, il protagonista Ted Barton non è altro che lo stesso Dick, che attraverso il personaggio compie un viaggio di ritorno nella sua felice cittadina natale.
Una tranquilla cittadina di provincia nella quale trascorse la sua infanzia, una parentesi felice della sua vita che ricordò sempre vividamente e, come suggerirebbe il romanzo, con rimpianto.
"Non so chi sono" e "Io so chi sei veramente!" sono le frasi che ricorrono più spesso nel romanzo, pronunciate da personaggi in cerca di se stessi e della loro giusta realtà.Un po' insoddisfacente il contesto generale del romanzo, che alla fine vira versa il soprannaturale con tanto di divinità e lotta Bene vs Male.
Dick.
***.The author used one of his common settings for this novel – an alternate universe.
In this case, however, the new universe wasn’t somewhere else or in another time period, it was hidden from view by an overlay of a totally different identity.
The husband wants to take a short side trip to visit the town where he grew up, but which he hasn’t seen for almost twenty years.
What has happened?
His exploration into the current state of the town and what happened to the old one is the subject of the plot.
Dick had a devious and creative mind, which comes through loud and clear in this novel.
Война на реалности, войната за миналото и бъдещето: http://knigolandia.info/book-review/v...Инак “Война на реалности” на класика Филип К.
Историята проследява завръщането на един мъж в родния му град, където открива, че нищичко не е такова, каквото го помни.
Но не по начина, по който един град се променя и човек изгубва детските си ориентири и спомени – сградите са други, хората са други… градът е друг.
Но някъде там по ръбовете наднича миналото – и той трябва да разкрие кой е подменил цял един град и какви са двете божества, които са се вкопчили едно в друго за власт над градчето… и Вселената.Издателска къща БАРДhttp://knigolandia.info/book-review/v...

Dick, esta obra em especial deu-me a sensação de estar a ler não uma obra de ficção científica mas sim o que poderia passar por um livro de fantasia para jovens adultos...
Toda a cena descrita está num tom totalmente diferente do resto da obra, o que achei fascinante.Esta obra tem final fechado, embora deixe algumas pontas soltas e questões sem resposta.
Embora tenha um conceito muito interessante como fundo, o desfecho deixou um nadinha a desejar (muito provavelmente pelo facto da obra pertencer a uma coleção de ficção científica e eu ter sentido que afinal o desfecho nada acrescentava de 'científico' como explicação dos acontecimentos).
Dont get me wrong - I think his work has an amazing ability to portray small American towns - or at least paint vivid pictures of them (having never experienced them for myself) - in one paragraph it feels like I am reading an ageing national Geographical edition and then next I am lost to a world of fantasy and warring gods.
More often than not you can start to see where a book is heading, by title, cover image or even by the authors style who wrote it, but with the works of Philip K Dick that is a dangerous assumption you more often than not get totally wrong.
Even though I enjoyed this enough to read the whole story and I liked the way the concept was delivered (a concept that has been used time and time again) there were some things that irked me.For starters the writing style I found to be frustrating, lacking proper description and fluidity.Then there is the fact that the main character accepted certain reasons behind what was going on so quickly.
Yes I'm aware that this is a science fiction novel and pure fantasy but still there should always be a touch of rationalism to a story no matter how far fetched.
It has been going on since the beginning of time. The battle between forces of darkness and light. That's the plot here,the battle lasting billions of years. As a part of it,an entire village is hidden and replaced by another one. And many lives get caught in that change. An interesting plot. And the part of sending God's daughter to live on earth. That's one fine twist. Altogether a wonderful read. PKD stories combine science with philosophy. It makes you see reality from different dimensions.
A fairly straight-forward (as far as Dick goes) shorter novel that touches on a lot of Dick's more familiar themes, though perhaps a bit more shallowly than his own acclaimed work. Written in the '50s for one of Ace's double-novels and Dick's 2nd or 3rd published novel, it shows in both the prose and plot which is— schlockier, pulpier, trashier, more B-movie like, choose according to preference— than the works Dick produced once he was more established.It's enjoyable enough for what it is, but it's hardly great fare.
Yet this nouvelle being one of his early and minor works, the execution of the story and the way it's told made me think of a magnum opus, a watermark of the genre. The Cosmic Puppets is filled with delightful scenes, unconventional ideas and twists -even for sci-fi, although I think this is closer to fantasy-, and such an enjoyable prose (especially at the beginning of the chapters). Unfortunately, it had also a handful of topic, dull, efectist characters, as well as the ending. I'm expecting more Dick, hehe.
Well, I've finally read a book by Philip K.
This seems like an attempt to write horror in the mode of Stephen King (not that SK was writing yet, so let's say Robert Bloch), but the reader (hi) thinks it's going to be a science fiction novel, so when, about halfway through, people start getting eaten alive by spiders and incredibly hokey deities show themselves, it seems even more ridiculous than it would have otherwise.
I know it was 1957 when this book was written, but JESUS CHRIST does every woman character have to get her breasts described and rated, "perky," "dewy," or -- not kidding -- "upturned"?
Wtf did I just read.
The town called Millgate is there all right: but it is a town he has never seen before.It is a town where Ted Barton had died of scarlet fever at the age of nine years old…’Blurb from the 1985 Panther paperback editionTed Barton returns to his home town of Millgate, Virginia only to find it unrecognisably transformed, and holding records to show that he died in childhood.Although a minor Dick novel this early work exhibits many of the signature themes and characters which Dick was later to exploit to extraordinary effect.Barton’s wife, her implied alcoholism and her seemingly hostile attitude to Barton himself is indicative of other female characters which Dick created in later works such as Mary Rittersdorf from ‘Clans of The Alphane Moon’.One cannot ignore the fact that Dick had difficulty in maintaining lasting relationships with women.
Although I enjoyed Voices from the Street, I was excited to get into more genre territory, and this didn’t disappoint.
The tone of this novel shares much more in common with Dick’s short stories than Voices.
I wish I had come across this when I was a lot younger, because it would undoubtedly be one of those books I would have loved and read repeatedly whenever I needed a dose of some serious weirdness.
The opening third of the book is excellent, as Dick keeps piling on the mysteries and strangeness in brisk little chapters that end on cliffhangers.
The writing style is different, of course, but The Cosmic Puppets features some of the same spiritual themes Dick would later develop in novels like Valis and The Divine Invasion.
In  The Cosmic Puppets, we have a somewhat hapless and confused protagonist who discovers the universe has split between light and darkness (although here PKD uses Zoroastrian terminology, rather than the Gnostic archetypes he favored later).
I had the impression that these themes had begun appearing in Dick's work only after his mystic experience/mental breakdown of 1974, but clearly these were ideas rattling around in his head as early as the 1950's when he wrote this book.
The basic story is of a man from a small town called Millgate, who is returning to find rediscover himself in his childhood.
When he gets there the town in changed, nothing is as he remembered and no one remembers the Ted Barton he thinks he was.
The story's ideas seem to be based on a kind of eastern mythology, with gods fighting forever over an everlasting battleground.
If you really want to get a better grounding of Dick read 'The Man in the High Castle' which is about a kind of Dystopia explaining what might have happened if Hitler won world war two.
Mankind in a small town caught in the middle of a battle of Cosmic proportions.I agree with other reviewers that this book feels somewhat different than Dick's other works.
At times, though, it does feel dated and a bit pulpy.
I'll give an example.In one passage Dick describes a female goddess's form after a man helps to transform her as such: [...
If you would like to inflict yourself with hours of pain, checkout his narrations for The Name of the Wind & The Wise Man's Fear.Altogether, this was not a bad way to spend 4 hours.
This one was …weird.
I don’t know that it’s really sci-fi, which is OK, but it was …weird.
He gets there and discovers the town is completely different, he doesn’t know anyone, all the buildings and streets are different, and according to the town records, he died as a child.
He teams up with a couple of kids and an old, drunk guy to set things to rights and it gets …weird.
It reads a bit like an old Twilight Zone episode.
I can’t really describe any more without giving things away.
Веднага се превърна в любимата ми творба на Филип К.
Дик.
Това е уникална смесица между хорър и фентъзи, направлявана от безграничното въображение на Дик.
Ето кой е повлиял толкова много на Стивън Кинг.Млад мъж заминава със съпругата си в провинцията, където живеят родителите му.
Но когато пристига забелязва промени – градчето се е променило.
Самата тъкан на реалността се е разпокъсала и силите на злото са проникнали и разпрострели на повърхността.Може да изглежда като симплистична борба между доброто и злото на пръв поглед, но рядко съм попадал на такова умело перо – без излишни описания, нон-стоп напрежение, чете се плавно и леко.http://lammoth.wordpress.com/2011/04/...
Dick's work.
I went through this book several years ago, but didn't remember much of it until I moved along in this again.
The story is straightforward at first, but grows a bit convoluted as time goes on, thereby making it difficult to follow along with what's happening.
I would have liked better descriptions of what was happening with the golem creatures, and also how the animals became involved.
Much of it felt shoe-horned in in the last quarter of the book or so.Overall, it's a short read, in about 2.5 hours, and enjoyable if you understand Dick's work, but unless your a fan, I'd skip it.

