https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2429135.The_Girl_with_the_Dragon_Tattoo
Because more often than not, I’m nuts too.I was born and raised in Minnesota, and if you know our state history, you’re already aware that we were predominantly settled and populated by Swedish (and Norwegian) immigrants.
I’m actually a bit surprised I loved the book as much as I did because I normally criticize authors for trying to jam too much into one story and this book had a lot going on:--shady business dealings--corporate fraud--murder--religious fanaticism--extramarital affairs--Nazis--casual sex--creepy pervs--violence against women--money laundering--sexual sadism--political proselytizing--dysfunctional family secretsAnd that’s just scraping the surface.
I've heard and read many complaints about Stieg Larsson's The Girl with the Dragon Tattoo:1.
Perhaps, but how can a book whose original Swedish title is "Men Who Hate Women" avoid misogyny?
I looked into emigrating to Sweden but had no excuse, being a resident of Canada with no skills the Swedes were looking for, and I am a fan of Norse Mythology, but I do love Sweden, and I was jazzed by the setting of Larsson's book.
All that aside, however, I think The Girl with the Dragon Tattoo was a compelling, entertaining and unabashedly thrilling read.If you can overlook the eight complaints, or consider them in a different light, you'll like this book too.
Thinking, this really better be the best book I've ever read, I took it up to the checkstand, where the register guy asked: "Did one of our employees recommend this?" Um, yeah.
Did Oprah make a bet with someone that she could pull strings and make the most boring book in the world a best seller?But I am suckered in by numerous good reviews and a fairly interesting book jacket description, so I buy it and take it with me on a trip camping with my family.
And every time someone says, “Don’t go alone,” it is a little reminder that a lot of men hate us.I have to say, though, that while I think it is realistic to say that women are raised to fear rape and to incorporate that fear of rape into our daily routine, and that sometimes fighting back makes things more dangerous, I do not believe it is effective to live in fear or to encourage women to live in fear or not defend ourselves.
(A) 85% | ExtraordinaryNotes: It’s a logical, captivating mystery where everything clicks into place. It gives backwoods Sweden a Transylvania feel.
Let's go with the first option.)So, the good stuff: the main story - a disgraced journalist is hired by a rich old man to write a book about said man's crazy rich family, while secretly working to discover truth behind the disappearance and supposed murder of the man's granddaughter.
I'm also pretty sure they took some stuff from The Girl Who Played With Fire and put it in the movie, because there's some stuff about Lisbeth's past that I don't remember from the book.
I re-read this book by audio and even though the narrator was good, he didn't do a good job on Lisbeth's voice.
I have the movie trilogy box set of the books that are fan freaking tastic!
Lisbeth Salander is just freaking awesome.
Then Mikael gets lucky to have Lisbeth help him.
Mikael almost gets killed a time or two.
And of course, it's a big ole nasty secret.
It was just as hard to read about the second time around.
And try and watch the movie trilogy.
Yes, they are that good as well as the books.
Happy Reading!Mel ❤️
Hey, kids, if you like books in which the only major descriptive moments happen during sexual torture scenes, where major characters lack motive, and where the red herrings...stink ...
The entire book sets you up to think that the alleged killing/s were perpetrated by one or more people for complicated reasons.
Is it possible that the well-financed campaign for this book had to do with the fact that the dead author couldn't object to selling Apple and Kawasaki shout-outs?5.The two plot lines are almost entirely unrelated.
I kept thinking it was about to be, but I was wrong.**End of Rant**
"The Girl with the Dragon Tattoo" starts off as an investigation of a 40-year old disappearance of a teenage heiress, but gradually morphs into a tale of serial murder and corporate trickery spanning several continents and later takes in complicated international financial fraud and the buried evil past of a wealthy Swedish industrial family.I found this book extremely engaging and full of action and came to regret many times that I had an audio version instead of a regular paper book.
I am eager to move on to "The Girl Who Played with Fire" and see what Mikael and Lisbeth are up to next.
Aided by a tattooed, antisocial hacker named Lisabeth Salander, Blomkvist unearths horrible skeletons lurking in the Vanger family closet...For a few years now, I've been avoiding The Girl with the Dragon Tattoo.
All hype aside, The Girl with the Dragon Tattoo is a damn good book and I feel it goes beyond just being a mystery.Larsson creates some memorable characters.
We've got Mikael Blomkvist, the tarnished journalist, Lisabeth Salander, bad ass hacker, for the leads, both multidimensional characters.
Honestly, those are my only two complaints I can think of at the moment.The Girl with the Dragon Tattoo deserves a lot of the hype it gets.
I HATED this book. I don't understand all of the good reviews that are coming in on it. I hated the characters, the plot was thin - ugh. I can't believe I read the whole thing.
She's pierced and inked, and for some reason this is such a source of fascination for Larsson (and apparently everyone who reads this book).
Every time Salander comes into the story there is a mention about her piercings, her surly attitude, her tough clothes, her tattoos.
Maybe if you all hadn't spent the last 30 years listening to ABBA and Europe obsessively, you might actually not find kick-ass girls in boots all that magical.All of these unfair generalizations aside, I can honestly say that I read this book and I'm not all that excited about it.
The society around and the grim reality that prompted the book gives the outcome to this course of action.Now the key point to me was that Larsson does not condemn any of them - he makes different characters speak in defense for each of these responses and lets us wonder about which course can ever be called right.
My very first time reading a mystery/detective novel. Loved it.
Loved! an interesting,mystery filled and a very thrill-seeking storyline..well written,nice movie also (paperback!)
Ok, there was a good mystery during the middle third of the book.
THere were alot of characters.
AND there was also those first 200+ painful pages of character introduction and back story.
How did this series get so huge?And there was also a plot that revolved around rape, violence, torture, murder and endless degredation of women.
She also seemed crucial to the plot.
Mikael "Kalle" Blomvquist had no character arc.
He was not a dynamic character - just a detective with no growth or change.
I just didn't get it, but I slogged through for book club and the right of free expression!
Read up until the financial scam and lost interest (DNF).Attempt 2: Learned that this was my grandfather's fave book.
I'm still glad I tried it because it gave me something to write to him about in the weekly letters.Attempt 3: It's been a bit over a year since my grandfather passed and I just felt like I needed to read it again.Reading this book for the third time just blew my mind.
The 2018 PopSugar Reading Challenge - Nordic NoirAudiobook CommentsRead by Simon Vance and he was just the absolute perfect voice for this book.
Lisbeth is awesome and badass, no doubt there, but this book is so much more than just her story, and focusing solely on that undermines the message Stieg Larsson was sending.
The original Swedish title is  Men Who Hate Women and it is precisely what the story is about.
(*)   * I am pretty sure it received its Book Witness Protection Program name change treatment to avoid being seen as "that feminist crap" in the English-speaking society.
Larsson condemns all this, and in his journalism-like style does not hold back the slightest bit.
Kind of classic mystery story telling.
The last 1/3 of the book was never really needed because the mystery is over and it basically takes the author 100 pages to wrap it up.
I like to call him Stieg because, even though he is dead, I feel that we are on a first name basis after the author uses "buttplug" in his book.
It was not that great of a book.
I don't understand admitting the book is crap but still loving it.
This book did not encourage me to visit Sweden any time soon.
Now that's what I'm talking about!
I've never seen the genre political thriller get mentioned on Goodreads, but here is a prime candidate for this moniker.The translation seems elaborate, genuine, and faithful enough.
The places or settings in the book are descriptive.
The scenes are well lit.As for the plot, it's quite intricate.
Read it and find out!
The characterization is not world class, but the author gives the impression that he could write purple prose, if he wanted to.
There is blackmail present in the book, and also deciphering of names, there are misdirections galore.
Stieg Larsson packed so much in this book, you got to admire his work ethic.
I guess it's just a bit too long, and cuts were necessary.___________________________________________I just read the following passage in Precious Williams's review of this book, but I have seen at least half a dozen similar ones:The constant references to sandwiches (you get the impression the Swedes eat at least an entire loaf of bread every day), coffee (how on earth do they manage to sleep?) and breasts became tedious very rapidly.I can stay silent no longer.
Swedes used to drink more coffee per capita than any other county in the world, though I understand that they've now slipped a couple of places.
yes, that is another thing i learned: the swedes eat sandwiches.
if you excise every occurrence of the words "coffee" and "sandwiches" from the text, you will be left with a book maybe half the size of what it is now.
it is like larsson had some sort of writing tic that when he was stuck for what the characters should do next, he would just bang out, "eat sandwiches and coffee".
there are crimes committed in this book for no other reason than character development.
i cannot commit to 11 books, or whatever...
Murray, by that time already an international best-seller.And for good reason.Complicated, intricate, and intelligent, Larsson’s journalistic prose is crisp and logical.
Filled with interesting characters, exciting scenes and this just flows very well.
Mikael Blomkvist and Lisbeth Salander are two of the most interesting characters in recent fiction.
Larsson’s great achievement, though, is not just in their creation, but in the dynamic chemistry he has fused between them.One of the best accolades that can be given a work is that it was hard to put down, and that most definitely applies here.
Man som hatar kvinnor = The Girl with the Dragon Tattoo (Millennium, #1), Stieg Larsson عنوانها: دختری با نشان اژدها؛ دختری با خالکوبی اژدها؛ دختری که رازی کهنه را آشکار کرد؛ عنوان سوئدی: مردانی که از زنان نفرت دارند؛ نویسنده: استیگ لارسن (لارسون)؛ تاریخ نخستین خوانش: روز بیست و هفتم ماه جولای سال 2012 میلادیعنوان: دختری با خالکوبی اژدها - کتاب اول؛ نویسنده: استیگ لارسن (لارسون)؛ مترجم: اصغر اندرودی؛ کرج، در دانش، 1389؛ در 620 ص؛ شابک: 9789641741299؛ موضوع: داستانهای نویسندگان سوئدی قرن 20 معنوا
هنریک ونگر یک صنعتگر بازنشسته ی هشتاد ساله، میکائیل بلومکویست را، که یک محقق و پژوهشگر، روزنامه‌ نگار، و ویراستار مجله‌ ای به نام «هزاره» است، و به تازگی پرونده‌ ای را در شرایط بسیار بد، از دست داده، برای پژوهش درباره ی ناپدید شدن خواهرزاده ی خویش «هریئت»، که در حدود چهل سال پیش ناپدید شده، استخدام می‌کند.
ونگر باور داشت هریئت، که سی و شش سال پیش ناپدید شده، توسط یکی از اعضای خانواده‌ خویش به قتل رسیده است.
پس از این ماجرا بلومکویست به جزیره رفته و تحقیقات خود را درباره ی خانواده ونگر و ناپدید شدن هریئت در آنجا آغاز کرد.
5 stars to Stieg Larsson's The Girl with the Dragon Tattoo. You heard all the hype about the author who died and his books weren't published. You heard that they were translated into English. You heard they were great and both Sweden and Hollywood were making a movie of it. Well, it's all true. So is the fact that this is a must read for every mystery fan! Story So many plots, so little time. Basically, the primary plot is about a missing girl. A relative wants to find out what happened that mys
You heard they were great and both Sweden and Hollywood were making a movie of it.
Basically, the primary plot is about a missing girl.
And none of that includes the rather extensive family of the missing girl -- some who believe she died, some who couldn't even care more.
The story weaves in and out telling the various plights of the hacker, the newspaper man and the family with secrets.
it's not for the easy reader or one who wants a straightforward, simple story.
Maybe learn Swedish so you can read the story in it's written language.
here's the scoop: I read A LOT.
Editorial meeting of Bryant Reviews LtdTopic : book 1, Millennium series- Is everyone here?- We should start anyway.- Okay, well, we have to figure out how to review this damned Dragon Tattoo book. The problem is, everyone and his dog has already reviewed it, and seen the movie. Movies. What’s left to say?- Well, you could say the same thing about Dickens.- All due respect, Larsson is not no Dickens.- True dat.- True dat? Who are you, gangsta-reviewer?- What about the sandwiches and coffee?- ?-
Who are you, gangsta-reviewer?-	What about the sandwiches and coffee?-	?-	You know, you could do a kind of parody, might be funny…-	It’s been done!
It’s a bit of a myth.-	That’s 7 more than most sane novelists describe in their novels.
It’s like right out of a sales brochure.
They say shit like “But for you I would be dead!” and “This can’t be brushed under the carpet!” and “Get out of my house this minute!”(General laughter)-	What about Salamander?-	It’s Salander.-	Oh yeah, I did that too.
Okay, that’s three who did, so the rest of you didn’t.
I also enjoyed the economic side of the other plot line, and Blomkvist's words towards the end were very apt considering the recent problems with the American stock exchange and subsequent recession, when he's asked by a TV host about "the fact that Sweden's economy was now headed for a crash." He calls it nonsense, and goes on to explain something which I think we all tend to forget:"You have to distinguish between two things - the Swedish economy and the Swedish stock market.
ode to a dragon-tattooed girlshall i compare thee to a cinematic adaptation of one of my favorite bo
Loved it! an interesting,mystery filled and very thrill-seeking storyline..was well written,nice movie also... (paperback!)
Aside from knowing that she's a good investigator, sexual but detached, has Asperger's and is kind of ruthless, I felt like she could have been anyone.
I looked for some piece of insight or indication that she is a dynamic character that would make me like her, but it never happened.
Perhaps in further books and with time, I'd feel attached to her like I've felt to other mystery series characters, but I'm not really tempted to read on.
I'm assuming that Blomqvist got some scandalous scoop and super busted him, because that's what happens in utterly predictable books like this one.
