https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/424.Slouching_Towards_Bethlehem
I imagine my mother reading about a gathering of earnest young activists and intellectuals "reluctant about gathering up their books and magazines and records, about finding their car keys and ending the day, and by the time they are ready to leave Joan Baez is eating potato salad with her fingers from a bowl in the refrigerator, and everyone stays to share it, just a little while longer where it is warm" and wishing she were in their midst, instead of pushing a shopping cart down the aisles of Pak-n-Save, filling it with boxes of Kraft Mac-n-Cheese and Hamburger Helper.
First published in 1968, Slouching Towards Bethlehem considers what happens when the center cannot hold and things fall apart: the three-part collection's twenty essays confront the onset of an age of cynicism in American political and social life.
The first part contains pieces specific to California, the second personal essays, the third portraits of places significant to both Didion and America at the end of the 1960s.
Didion's prose sprawls with meticulous detail, and is tinted with the journalist's ironic and aloof sensibility.
Favorite essays included "Slouching Towards Bethlehem," "On Keeping a Notebook," "On Self-Respect," and "Goodbye to All That."
Just unbelievably good. I'm not the right person to write about Joan Didion, but my God, she is real and she can write.
Seriously, if prose could make me pregnant, I would now be Nadya Suleman.I know this is just the normal hormonal response I get whenever I really seem to mesh or synch with an author or artist.
I felt just as complete the first time I watched a Coen brothers movie.
I also felt this the first time I discovered my arm naturally guided my hand to my lap.
No, this isn't a revolution.
It isn't even revolutionary.
It a euphoria and I know it.
In its first section “Life Styles in the Golden Land”—slightly longer than half the book--every piece but one is set in California: a San Bernadino Valley murder, profiles of California icons (John Wayne, Joan Baez, Howard Hughes), characteristic California political institutions (the Communist splinter group the CPUSA, the now defunct liberal think tank the Center for the Study of Democratic Institutions), and the California nexus of the Hippie Explosion, San Franciso’s Haight-Ashbury district during the Summer of Love.
BEI TEMPI ADDIONonostante in un capitolo (questo libro raccoglie articoli usciti su riviste) dal titolo Non riesco a togliermi quel mostro dalla testa, la signora Didion esprima opinioni tranchant su Kubrick, Antonioni, Visconti, Bergman, dimostrando per la prima e unica volta che perfino lei può sbagliare, prendere cantonate e dire bestialità, ho amato questo libro e amo profondamente questa meravigliosa scrittrice, sentimento costruito su una breve intensa conoscenza (incontrata per la prima volta neppure cinque mesi fa, è la sua quarta opera che leggo e apprezzo a fondo).Joan Didion in Golden Gate Park, San Francisco, nell’aprile del 1967.Viene definita la migliore scrittrice vivente in lingua inglese (e io le auguro mille anni oltre gli 80 che compirà il 5 dicembre prossimo) e si dice che proprio nel giornalismo proponga il meglio di sé.
"To have that sense of one's intrinsic worth which constitutes self-respect is potentially to have everything: the ability to discriminate, to love and to remain indifferent. To lack it is to be locked within oneself, paradoxically incapable of either love or indifference." Somehow, I usually read Didion on a blue night, when it's so bright outside that I open my curtains to search for the moon; instead, what greets me is a pale hue of blue sky. When I read Blue Nights, I had a similar experien
These are the kind of nights that reminds a reader of what she is, of what she is not: "We flatter ourselves by thinking this compulsion to please others an attractive trait: a gist for imaginative empathy, evidence of our willingness to give." Oh how I would love to teach Didion's "On Self-Respect," if only to garner the provocative perspective of a generation not yet born when she experienced and wrote this collection.
I was moved by her memoirs Blue Nights and The Year of Magical Thinking; however, with this book, I was inspired by not only the stories and the essay form, but also by the art of the craft of narrative nonfiction in some of her pieces, this art that places a writer within the center of observation, and yet silences her persona.
This is Joan's first essay collection, and the focus is largely on California, in the 1960s, with a few exceptions. I love her ability to write about people and to connect them to specific places. It feels like a time capsule about a place that doesn't exist the same way anymore, at least not completely. Even the Santa Ana winds may have changed.
I realize what is disturbing about these essays and what leaves the acrid aftertaste on the leftist tongue about Didion.
We have a melancholic view of history, in which moments of utopian potential are consistently being snuffed out in the name of "order" and "tradition," the very values, in other words, which Didion spent much of her time in the 1960s eulogizing.
These are the imperatives of the Right, old and new, Goldwater and Bush.
Circle the wagons against the strange and the new.
I admire Didion for the razorblade incisiveness of her critique but her unwillingness to open her subjectivity up to the world makes it difficult to think of her as an ally.
In reading the essays in Slouching Towards Bethlehem, I feel a vague sense of unease.
Within each essay, there is some revelation of anxiety or untruth.
Within every person, there is a moment of quiet desperation.
Within each city, there lie feelings of lost hope and disillusionment.
Within each person, there is some quiet desperation.
In reading these essays, some rough beast has come 'round at last.
Yet for all of her stylistic skill, I cannot but feel there is some broader deficiency in her outlook.
The whole collection speaks internally of nostalgia and of something lost, but I'm not sure if this dreamworld ever existed.
Literature, history, makes us feel often that we are not alone, that what we are feeling is rooted in something which is universal, eternal: but we still believe that we have a unique strain, an undiscovered permutation of the human condition.Didion's essays On Self-Respect, On Morality, On Keeping a Notebook reveal the narcissistic compulsions of young adulthood: an age wherein we pen (figuratively and sometimes literally for the diary-inclined) the narrative of out life-stories, and also develop the character which we will assume.
There’s one remarkable passage where she walks you – or, more likely, drives you – through a neighbourhood, listing all the store names and slogans, and the details accrue and tell you as much about the milieu and atmosphere in which the crime will take place as any CSI report.Other memorable essays include an affectionate, nostalgic profile of an aging John Wayne; a piece on Carmel, CA neighbours protesting a school for nonviolence run by folk icon Joan Baez (oh how Didion quietly captures her sanctimoniousness); and the bold title essay, set in the counterculture scene in San Francisco’s Haight-Ashbury neighbourhood which, in a couple dozen pages, got me to understand more about the movement than a dozen movies and novels.And there’s the lovely, elegiac (and often quoted) essay, “Goodbye To All That,” about Didion’s few years living in Manhattan as a young woman before she moved to California.
I don't say this lightly, mind- I spend a lot of time reading on subway ( ars  is pretty  longa  and  vita  is DEFINITELY  brevis ) and having a book that meshes well with the overal mise en scene is key.
Plenty of artists and writers satirized the same social and moral landscape with seemingly similar values in mind (one might think of West, Wilder, Pynchon and Zappa, just to name a few, not to mention HST, a near-peer whose zest for the absurd only partially redeems the fact that he can't write a paragraph, or even a sentence, on Didion's level) but they did in their own ways with a bit more bravura, wit, and sympathetic understanding.
Even when a lovely person like Joan Didion writes about California, it doesn't make me want to hop on a plane and head there.
So those essays didn't do so much for me, much like her other collection, Where I Was From, didn't do so much for me.
I blame all of this not on Didion or her writing, but the entire state of California.
But right now I can't even.So five glowing stars for the ones I liked the most and I'll just pretend the other ones that felt lackluster in comparison were from that other essay collection of hers that I gave two stars.
Similarly, the 1964 piece on Hollywood was so enmeshed in the present that it doesn't seem relevant some 40 years later.) But the rest of the book awed me.
My favorite essays were "John Wayne: A Love Song," "On Self-Respect," "On Keeping a Notebook," "On Going Home" and "Goodbye to All That." Joan Didion's writing moved me the most when she got personal.
One night I read a paragraph of it to my husband, who said, "That's my favorite paragraph of hers." Here is a section of it:"I am bad at interviewing people.
I was intrigued to see that W.B. Yeats was Didion's inspiration, as shown in the last two sentences of his poem:"And what rough beast, its hour come round at last,Slouches towards Bethlehem to be born?"Why did she choose this poem?
I kept on thinking about this and so I was intrigued to read that "This book is called Slouching Towards Bethlehem because for several years now certain lines from the Yeats poem which appears two pages back have reverberated in my inner ear as if they were surgically implanted there".How wonderful to read that.The rainbow does indeed shine on her!I applaud her!
Dry and sharply delivered and filled with references and dissections of social issues she is definitely the voice of a generation albeit it comes across a little dated now.
I wish I could say I liked this collection as a whole, not all essays resonated with me and left me underwhelmed more often than not, I had high hopes for this so maybe my expectations were set too high.
Her more personal accounts left me wanting more so for this reason I will explore more of her work as she clearly has something to say and delivers it extremely well.
It was a country of bankruptcy notices and public-auction announcements and commonplace reports of casual killings and misplaced children and abandoned homes and vandals who misplaced even the four-letter words they scrawled.
Children were missing.
Those left behind filed desultory missing-persons reports, then moved on themselves.
It was the United States of America in the cold late spring of 1967, and the market was steady and the G.
N. P high and a great many articulate people seemed to have a sense of high social purpose and it might have been a spring of brave hopes and national promise, but it was not, and more and more people had the uneasy apprehension that it was not.
I decided to get my Joan Didion on this summer in preparation for the biography that comes out next month, and Slouching Towards Bethlehem, her first essay collection, seemed like a good place to start.
It's true that some of these essays are hopelessly dated, kind of like those true-crime articles that appear in Vanity Fair that no one's going to care about in five months, let alone fifty years (although the majority of these particular essays were published in The Saturday Evening Post).
I’m not sure where, or when, this resistance to Didion started.
Not her writing, but of Didion, or more precisely the cult of Didion – much to the disapproval of my fellow students – so furthering the hype that I figured I had to finally discover just what all the brouhaha was about.
Didion can write.
Her descriptive narratives that make up the chapters in Slouching Towards Bethlehem prove that she can.
Yet it is the “her” in her descriptive narratives that I tend to not want to experience.
Funny, but this is probably what people say about my writing.
Of course, I appreciated her subject matter too and her eye for a good story, and the way she cut through social issues, as she did the hippie myths of Haight-Ashbury during the 1960s in San Francisco.One of my favorites is one called, "On Keeping a Notebook," where the great Didion talks about writing (and notebooks):"How it felt to me: that is getting closer to the truth about a notebook...See enough and write it down, I tell myself, and then some morning when the world seems drained of wonder, some day when I am only going through the motions of doing what I am supposed to do, which is write— on that bankrupt morning I will simply open my notebook and there it will all be, a forgotten account with accumulated interest, paid passage back to the world out there..."
(Some people capable of voicing their thoughts on subjects such as "Self-Respect" and "Morality" are born middle-aged; others, possibly due to their specific upbringing, remain questioning, uncertain, young.)Her parents relocated multiple times during her childhood (her father was in the military), which left her feeling a perpetual outsider.Her voice is that of a well-mannered young woman, quiet and perceptive, living next to other people, but never being of them.
(On Keeping a Notebook)She is sensitive and perceptive in a way which makes me want to buy her a drink:Barbara is on what is called the woman's trip to the exclusion of almost everything else.
I envy Joan Didion’s facility with words.
But I am also going to buy the book because I want to highlight some passages, and because I want to give my own cadence to her voice.
It gave Didion’s thoughts a new layer, more accessible and amicable.
We have John Wayne, Joan Baez, San Francisco and hippies… yet, the personal essays will stay with me longer: self-respect, immorality and the power of going home are obviously more material to me than historical commentary on America.I don’t know what I will read next, because it will be such a letdown after this book.
If I could make you understand that, I could make you understand California and perhaps something else besides, for Sacramento is California, and California is a place in which a boom mentality and a sense of Chekhovian loss meet in uneasy suspension; in which the mind is troubled by some buried by ineradicable suspicion that things had better work here, because here, beneath that immense bleached sky, is where we run out of continent.The lament/memory/nostalgia is most famously expressed in the opening of "Slouching Toward Bethlehem" where Didion observes "children who were never taught and would never now learn the games that had held the society together." This opening gambit is completed by the end of the essay when she concludes: At some point between 1945 and 1967 we had somehow neglected to tell these children the rules of the game we happened to be playing.
The emptiness is an artistic choice.And that brings us back to my earlier point, about Didion’s noncommittal attitude toward the social trends of her time and place, her insistence that she belonged to "a different generation." She sees little of real or lasting value in free love platitudes or acid trip revelations or revolutionary ideology with no action to back it up.
It is all right only so long as we recognize that the end may or may not be expedient, may or may not be a good idea, but in any case has nothing to do with "morality."
For me it was a window to a more exciting time, an era narrowly missed, a world that was only just waking up, when to be young meant to live freely and love easily, and to seize the day and change the world required no more than to step outside one's own front door.
You can sense it in the gloomy countenance of the teens, burned out on psychedelics, for whom any notion of a future has been so annihilated that the mere concept of a thirty year old is barely comprehensible.
Heavy times indeed.
It should come as no surprise that this collection of Joan Didion's essays and journalism from the the mid sixties leading up to her publication of Play It As It Lays is thoroughly good, cynical, and perceptive. She writes about societal malaise and the ominous leisure landscapes of California all quite wonderfully, in particular. Though it does leave me wanting to grab more of her fiction soon, as well.
“We forget all too soon the things we thought we could never forget. We forget the loves and the betrayals alike, forget what we whispered and what we screamed, forget who we were.”Wow, this was so good! What a smart and thoughtful essay collection, consisting mostly of journalism pieces and personal experiences in 1960s California. Can’t wait to read more Didion! This was my first. PS. Keaton’s narration was pretty meh. I got tired of it quickly.
Old review, with which I disagree.-----I find very attractive the skeptical, reflexively ironic persona that comes through in these essays, as well as the unshockable sang-froid of her prose rhythm--but to call the book a classic, or a "stylistic masterpiece" as the back cover does, seems a bit much.
None of these essays, singly, is anything I could cherish.
There's nothing--at least for intellectual pith--that compares with Richard Rodriguez's "Late Victorians," if I may indulge a childish taste for antithesis by invoking another superb stylist known for searching essays on The Meaning of California.
Incredible. The nonfiction piece 'Dreamers of the Golden Dream' I have read over and over through the years. An incredible depiction of California desert life, and the 'true crime' murder of a dentist. I cannot do it justice here because I am writing quickly, but this POSITIVELY is a MUST READ, if not just for the first nonfiction piece in this voluminous collection. (This entire book is also in the collection "We Tell Ourselves Stories in Order to Live", which is all of Didion's work.)
