https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/23937.The_Soft_Machine
”In order to accomplish the purpose I prostituted myself to one of the priests---(Most distasteful thing I ever stood still for) ---During the sex act he metamorphosed himself into a green crab from the waist up, retaining human legs and genitals that secreted a caustic erogenous slime, while a horrible stench filled the hut---I was able to endure these horrible encounters by promising myself the pleasure of killing this disgusting monster when the time came---And my reputation as an idiot was by now so well established that I escaped all but the most routine control measures---.”So the paragraph above that I shared with you is strange, but easily understood.
Marlowe and Philip K Dick detectives utilizing third-person singular indirect recall, though now using the cut-up method, Burroughs unsettles and alarms with images of consumption (not to mention graphic scenes of: sex - drugs - coprophagia - sacrifice - self-abuse).
Pan God of Panic piping blue notes through empty streets as the berserk time machine twisted a tornado of years and centuries -- wind through dusty offices and archives -- Late night Trump tweets interrupted because The U.S. cannot allow EBOLA infected people back.
There is this piece of advice W.G. Sebald supposedly used to give: "By all means be experimental, but let the reader be part of the experiment." That's where Burroughs fails miserably.Here is a random quote from a random page:"Corpses hang pants open on the road to Monterrey - clear and loud ahead naked post cards and baby shoes - A man comes back to something he left in underwear peeled the boy warm in 1929 - Thighs slapped the bed jumped ass up - 'Johnny screw' - Cup is split - wastings - Thermodynamics crawls home - game of empty hands - bed pictures post dead question - carrion smell sharp.
Imagine that these channels are playing a variety of sex films, a documentary on parasitic and poisonous insects of the amazon, a sci-fi police drama strangely analogous to Dr. Who (no Daleks, sorry), and a film about junkies.
Now imagine what all this would look like when the TV was set to jump randomly among channels every few seconds.
This is the best description I can give to the text of The Soft Machine, however this belies the strange almost-coherence contained despite the channel-change static bursts I found myself imagining at every punctuation mark.
The strange religious sacrifices, capital punishment he could fall prey to flicker in and out of the picture.
Sure, it's a clever idea, but actually reading it would be a painful thing.
My process reading the book went like this: p.5 (the start) - what's going on here?
p.6 - how long is this going to continue?
p.9 - oh, it's going on for the whole book.
p.20 - but I'm not really getting anything else out of it by reading more.
At this point, I look at the wikipedia entry to see if it will help me read and appreciate the book.
It tells me that the plot starts at chapter 7.
Delirium addicts.After reading the smell of sex is almost the same as the compost pile can not love againNot pleasant.
This book is clearly entirely possible despicable to know, shit.
"Jissom", "cunt" or "cum"This is the first book you read to me was.Surrealistic novels more or my favorite, but less sorry friends, it's shit.So, this book is like a much more naked lunch.
I need to get this book?Burroughs, rectal mucosa, compost piles, jissom, masturbation, cock down his pants as if swallowed words, such as the book says.Damn, why can not create gold urine?
This book forever burned the words "rectal mucus" into my psyche. Carbolic acid and rectal mucus. Thanks BB!
The one book by Burroughs that separates the fans from the curious. The curious usually think 'no, I am not going there.' Relentless sexual assault mixed with very experimental writing makes this book... Charming! I love Burroughs' voice. I also think he's one of the great satire writers of all time. A true American (drug addict) original!
The Wild Boys gives you a bit of a break from it and is probably his second-best novel as a result, but look, I mean, when book after book after book of nightmare drugs and weird sex and centipede attacks just all blend together, and you can put it in space and justify it however you want with the "he was awfully avant-garde wasn't he," but look, if we count the insubstantial parlor trick Dead Fingers Talk, Burroughs went back to the same crazy-ass hallucinations well four consecutive times after Naked Lunch.
I find the work of William Burroughs fascinating, but I’m not sure I always understand it.
Their meaning seeps in to the subconscious and the reader is left with the feeling that they have almost but not quite grasped some profound set of truths fixed in a story that remains enigmatic, disturbing and genuinely strange.The main conceit behind *The Soft Machine* seems to be that all of us are hosts to mind-parasites that are so well-established we don’t even know they are there, which makes them difficult to oppose or even comprehend properly.
Having greatly enjoyed a selection of Burroughs' earlier texts (Junky, Queer and Naked Lunch), and with the intention of reading through his works in order of composition, I hit upon a buffer with The Soft Machine.
You will have to be very psychedelic and strange, more so even than me, to properly appreciate this book.Update: Since having written the above review I have seen an interview with Burroughs conducted during the early 1980's in which he himself stated that the obsession with (cut-up) technique was taken too far in some of his books.
He mentioned The Soft Machine as an example of this.Here's the interview: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=axUc6...
Some juxtapositions of words and images were incredibly striking, a few dream-like sequences had to be admired for their sheer creativity, and there were thought-provoking moments throughout.
But it is very effectively disguised, enough so that I didn’t even feel like putting the effort into it, because significant portions of the book could just as well have been written by someone with the IQ of a doorknob, vocabulary aside.This was my first experience with Burroughs, and I realise now this was a bad choice.
Beat candır dedik, T.C. Başbakanlık Küçükleri Muzır Neşriyattan Koruma Kurulu kitabın arka kapağına babalar gibi "bu kitabı okumayın" dediyse, üstüne de çevirmenini sorguya alıp olay yarattıysa kesin alalım, okuyalım dedik, dedik ama.. Kitaptan bir paragraf yazıp tüm kitabın aynen bu şekilde yazıldığını söyleyip gideyim ben, ne yapayım başka?!: "Flaş canavarı sürünerek çıkıyor İhtiyar Fred Flash'tan amansız bir şekilde-1920'den kalma bir filmde orgazm, geri kalmış ülkelerden gümüş yazılar- rüzgarda sallanan cinsel organlar- soyunuk öğlenden gırtlak patlaması erkek eti katmanlarını kara lagünlerin durgunluğuna sürüklerken açık gömlekler menevişli bir halde kıvrılıyor şafakta -(şu keskin leş kokusu)"
*note to self. Copy from A. (different cover & edition 1968, corgi books).scan later.hummmm ok. so far. it's just junkie delirium. I was looking forward to seeing Burroughs' cut and paste method in the original. Bitterly disappointed. The 60's and 70's produced some innovative but strange & silly works. There are tiny sections of Soft Machine that I recognised from knowing his biography. If you had no knowledge of Burroughs' life you'd be stuck with mostly gibberish and junkie slang. I'm well over halfway...but not in the mood for this...off to the shelved indefinitely shelf.
Maybe it's me, but I don't see "genius" at work here at all. The cut-ups are sometimes fun, sometimes arresting, but the huge quantities of jism and rectal mucous in evidence here swiftly become tiresome when there's little of substance to accompany them. I thought I'd give another of the "prime" Burroughs novels a go after abandoning Naked Lunch, but I wish I hadn't. Junky and Queer are brilliant. This isn't.
Self-indulgent shite. Not enjoyable. I love Most of Burroughs work including Naked Lunch but this was too inpenetrable. It just was not fun. It was simply a junkie tapping away at his type writer, alone in his cheap motel room thinking how great it might be to write a book completely fucked. Sorry pal, it's shite.
i have tried and tried reading this book with no avail, now, don't get me wrong... burroughs is an amazing author, I just don't prefer this title in particular.
3 1/2 stars. Brutal, difficult to read, and kind of shallow, but entertaining and thought-provoking.
In small doses, however, I could follow most of it (though many of the rambling sentences and paragraphs still lost me completely, and were probably designed to do so), and I started actually enjoying it.By the end of the book, I had fully gathered the theme (and “theme” is a better word to use than “story” when describing the narrative of this book) and understood that this was all some kind of analogy for being hooked on drugs.
If read as a cohesive end to the novel itself, rather than a separate entity, these appendices make for a rather satisfactory end to this bizarre and challenging book.Over all, I’m glad that I decided to persevere with ‘The Soft Machine’, and to take my time doing so.
Burroughs is one of those writers that usually divides people instantly into the love him or hate him camps, but I'm still undecided about where I belong so I'm sitting in the middle for now.
The Soft Machine is a weird, weird book that features Burroughs' infamous 'cut up' writing style (which again, you'll either love or hate) and dips in and out of sci-fi/fantasy worlds as the characters (who are mostly junkies/rent boys) have random drug-fuelled conversations about life and the universe.
An affinity for a limited vocabulary, eroticising of stones (sand- for James, lime- for Burroughs)...Neither of the two authors seemed to know anything about sex.
The flimsy character of one was hung, and the other hung most of his flimsy characters.James taught me that the sight of black men makes you question your wardrobe (page, like...
Burroughs, um...
well he didn't call them black men...So yeah, I couldn't call which had the greater ability to offend, but I would certainly opt for Burroughs for a more realistic portrayal of a gentleman.Still, I think they both inspired something.
If one performed a Burroughs-type surgery on The Soft Machine and removed every instance of the words ‘orgasm’, ‘rectum’, ‘ass hairs’, even ‘Panama’, then the novel would, as it were, go limp, though if the title is synonymous with the human body then repetition is its natural mode. The cut-up style, assembling narrative by splicing in text from various sources at chosen, random or repeated intervals, is often intriguing but mostly hard-going. Then again, a book with ‘jissom’ every other paragraph is never going to be a page-turner. To borrow: most distasteful thing I ever sat down for, loved it!
It is on my shelf "Sorry I just can't".Because I just can't.
Out of my entire life, I rarely start a book and leave it unfinished.
No matter how dull / poorly written it is, I want to be able to finish it.
This way I can say, I read this and I have this opinion.For the Soft Machine, unfortunately I cannot.
I can't finish the book because I simply don't understand it.
It is a collection of words, of which I just cannot fathom the meaning.I liked Burrough's Junky and Ginsberg's Howl, and I know the Beat Generation literature can be difficult.
liked the weirdness but got bored with all the penises.
Word vomit. There are a few points where this book is decipherable, but those parts are mostly pre-occupied with fantasies of rectal violation. Fun.
Some experiments work, some others don't.
William Burroughs' experiment here is cutting up one of his own manuscripts and then creating an entire new novel from scratch.Sounds interesting?
If I graded it based on what it did to me in comparison to other books, I'd probably give it three stars, because while I was entertained by the results, I was never fully engaged in whatever story Burroughs was trying to build.
Some works balance perfectly commercial appeal and art, and they become classics; others only have commercial appeal.
And this experiment?Well, I can say "Soft Machine" is pure art.
Some of the sex stuff is a bit too much though - if I never hear the phrase "rectal mucus and carbolic soap" again it will be too soon.I do agree that it is difficult to understand - the plot would be bizarre and difficult to follow even if told in a traditional manner, but to then chop it up and rearrange it makes it impossible.
I will definitely be picking up the other two books in this "cut-up" trilogy soon.
This is the first book I've read in a while that has made me mad.
Burroughs definitely engraves an image in your mind while you partake but his edginess seems like it is edgy for the sake of being edgy and it wasn't shocking or enjoyable in the slightest sense for me.
I'm willing to give Naked Lunch a shot but if it's anything like The Soft Machine, I'm going to do what I did with this book and just instantly give it away.
This book is difficult to rate.
Parts of this book are absolutely brilliant.
Burroughs is at his satirical best when writing about time travel in the Mayan Caper or the selling of sperm as a commodity in the Gongs of Violence.
Other sections he is dark and disturbing when he is writing about addictions and homosexuality.
Then there are some sections of the book which feel like indecipherable ranting of junkie nodding in and out of one thought into the next.
Burroughs is more of a painter than story teller.
Even in his least lucid moment he creates stark harrowing images that will penetrate your subconscious and violate your dreams.
Three stars because I admired what Burroughs was trying to do with his cut-up technique, but ultimately I found the book unreadable. I think the cut-up technique could work on a story level, but on a sentence level it renders nonsense. However, reading the book made me search out more information about Burroughs, his life and his technique, so in that sense I think I really engaged with the book beyond the text itself, so kudos for that, Uncle Bill. I may try again some rainy weekend when I have an ample supply of liquor on hand.
