https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/31951519-the-usefulness-of-useless-knowledge
Flexner believed that scientists should not be bothered to produce utility but instead pursue problems out of sheer curiosity and eventually utility could be derived from their findings.
He believes that scientists should be free to focus on the problems that they find interesting without needing to worry about the immediate applicability of their discoveries.
This is one of the great examples that goes to show that major advancements in science, although they seem not to have immediate applicability, are able to completely change human lives several decades later.- This paper was written in 1939 previous to the launch of the atomic bombs on August 6 and 9 of 1945.
Kişisel fayda yerine merak duygusuyla, bilimsel hazla ve öğrenme isteğiyle elde edilen bilginin daha doğru sonuçlar verdiğini anlatan, bana da yanlış yolda olduğumu hatırlatan bir kitap oldu.Marconi örneği çarpıcı bir örnekti. Radyonun mucidi olarak bilinen Marconi hazıra konanlardanmış. Ama bu yolda yapılmış zor hesaplama ve deneylerden başarıyla çıkmış bilim insanları Maxwell ve Hertz imiş. Bu iki şahsiyet merak duygusu ve bilimsel hazla gerçekleştiriyorlarmış yaptıklarını. Ne var ki, onların yaptıkları üzerinden kişisel çıkar sağlayan Marconi imiş.Anlatılmak isteneni ya da karşı çıkılan noktayı, biraz da, okuma alışkanlığının zevkle değil de fayda sağlayacak umuduyla yapılması gerektiğine olan inanca benzetebiliriz..
Flexner Amerikan eğitim sistemine ve genel olarak bilime katkıları çok büyük olan birisi. Princeton'da kurduğu İleri Araştırmalar Enstitüsünde sadece "merak" ve "istek" ile bir sürü ünlü bilim insanını toplayıp bilime katkılarda bulundu. Bu küçük kitabında da bu dertlerini nasıl bir motivasyonla yaptığını özetlemekte. Kitabın kendisi küçük ama içindeki fikirler epey büyük ve etkileyici. Faydasız diye ifade ettiği bilgi türü sayesinde modern dünyada uçaklarımız ve bir sürü teknolojik yeniliğimiz var.Flexner bir çok politikacı ve bilim insanının görmezden geldiği bir noktaya dikkat çekiyor: zihinlere gerçek anlamda bir sınır konmazsa o zaman bir ilerleme mümkün olur!
The first essay is contemporary and written by Robbert Dijkgraaf, the present director of the Institute of Advanced Studies.
In this essay he serves up a history lesson of sorts, giving us some autobiographical detail on Abraham Flexner, the founding director of the Institute of Advanced Studies.
He goes into the Flexner’s beliefs which was the founding principles of the Institute as well as its role in the history of American innovation as the place where creativity and research into basic and fundamental research takes place.
Firstly, I found it difficult to get into Dijkgraaf's commentary, having not read the original essay, nor knowing a good deal of the knowledge Dijkgraaf takes for granted (what can I say?
It's interspersed with short examples of knowledge or technology we take as useful (for instance, the radio), but points to the very necessary, "useless" knowledge that came before; the reams of theory produced by scientists over the ages and then compiled into one ingenious device by Marconi.The essay is still relevant today (the entire point of Dijkgraaf's commentary, in addition to filling out this little booklet), and has a remarkably friendly feel.
Dijkgraaf's writing seems to me much more "useful" (that is, more direct and economical), and therefore somewhat less enchanting.
Having recently finished American Kingpin, where libertarian ideals clash with the need for individuals to have a responsibility towards society, this essay's message was all the more abhorrent to me.
It seems to shirk the responsibility that researchers have to today's society in favour of potential unclear benefits to the future.And yet, I give this essay a high rating as it is well written, well reasoned, and the message of pursuit for pursuit's sake is only problematic when taken to the extreme; just as the scenario that Flexner argues against is problematic where pursuit of answers occurs only by virtue of utility
Bought this for my dad for Father's Day. Previewed it (of course) before I give it to him on Sunday.What a perfect, tiny but powerful argument for the importance of curiosity as the essential foundation for education and discovery.
Presents an urgently needed corrective to the current pull away from non-product-based science, and indeed, under our current government, a wholesale resistance to science generally!
A little gem. An introduction to a paper from 1939, both about 40 pages. The value of research for research sake and a useful dig at modern metrics. A lot to be learnt regarding the dubious paths we have followed in the last 30 years.
Wonderful book form of a classic, 80-year-old essay from Harpers. One of my favorite pieces of writing. Not all who wander are lost, and we fail to appreciate the shocking number of innovations discovered by people who were just kinda screwing around...
Sınırsız araştırmalar sonucunda elde edilen bilgilerin bir amaca hizmet etmek yani "fayda sağlamak" zorunda olmadığını, bilimin bir nehir olduğunu, küçük derelerin yani O zaman için neye yaradığını ya da yarayacağını bilemediğimiz bilginin başka küçük derelerle / fikirlerle buluştuğunda engin nehirlere dönüşeceğini vurgulamakta.
Bu kitabın adı Flexner'ın makalesinin adını taşımakla birlikte, bu makaleyi esas alarak İleri Araştırmalar Enstitüsünün yöneticisi Robbert Dijkgraaf'ın yazdığı başka bir makale de önsöz şeklinde kitabın girişinde yer almakta ki onu da ayrıca çok beğendim❤Şahsen sıkıcı bulmadan merakla ve keyif alarak okudum.
İnsanlık senfoniler, resimler ve engin bilimsel hakikati mi istiyor, yoksa Hıristiyan senfoniler, Hıristiyan resimler, Hıristiyan bir bilim veyahut da Musevi senfoniler, Musevi resimler, Musevi bir bilim mi istiyor?
Written in the 1940s, Flexner's essay uses many examples to sell intellectual freedom in the pursuit of basic science and fundamental research. Flexner cites many examples to support this argument (penicillin, Manhattan Project, spaceflight program), but I'm not convinced by its relevance today, especially in an age where investment in scientific research is dwindling, funding grants are more difficult to get, and the absolute number of 'academic' researchers that America can support is tapering off and even dropping. Even so, I think that cloud has a silver lining - industry investments in research have never been higher.
Flexner’s essay argues the centrality of curiosity to human invention, and Dijkgraaf’s essay is an echo.A paean to freeing the human spirit by offering unfettered opportunity to pursue passions and interests, Abraham Flexner’s 1939 essay makes the case for self-directed learning that we are hearing choruses of today.
This all cumulates in part four, where Flexner pitches the Institute for Advanced Study as one such place.That context, of course, pushes the question: is this kind of freedom appropriate at all developmental stages?
Teachers can provide opportunities for curiosity, individuality, and pursuit of imagination in the context of a well-rounded curriculum.
Take this passage which summarizes nicely the book's main thrust:"The real enemy of the human race is not the fearless and irresponsible thinker, be he right or wrong.
The real enemy is the man who tries to mold the human spirit so that it will not dare to spread its wings..."It does not seem to have occurred to Flexner that precisely one of the ways that "fearless and irresponsible" thinkers go wrong is by arriving at conclusions which "seek to mold the human spirit." Take Marx.
This is especially important as in the US today we devalue the humanities and arts, or discourage those who aimlessly pursue their interests, because they lack immediate quantifiable applications of their knowledge.
Written in the 1930's I can think of no better way than for world-renowned geniuses (Flexner and Dijkgraaf), to remind our society that HUMANITIES MATTER and even DILY-DALLYING MATTERS.
If we're going to live and learn, let's relieve the pressure of immediate application and try to tap into the love of learning for the sake of knowledge itself.
The title piece is essentially a long essay by the founder of the Institute for Advanced Studies in Princeton.
But I think the introductory essay by IAS's current director, Robbert Dijkgraaf, titled "The World of Tomorrow," is an even clearer defense of fundamental research:1.
it advances knowledge for its own sake;2.
the knowledge created becomes public domain; and5.
it spawns startup companies.I'm not sure all of those are exactly orthogonal, or even that they are all positive features, as opposed to merely features, but he argues more forcefully than I can convey in a few words here.And who can object to anyone who mentions quantum computing at least twice, in a positive light?Recommended for those who like to think about thinking, and about research's role in society.
An inspiring quick read for all the scientists and curious.
“The real enemy of the human race is not the fearless irresponsible thinker, be he right or wrong.
The real enemy is the man who tries to mold the human spirit so that it will not dare to spread its wings”What I learned: there is applied science and not yet applied science.
Flexner helped to bust up the fake medical schools, improve American education, and brought Einstein and company to Princeton.
Einstein started reading his own mail after that.
This is a brilliant book that emphasizes why curiosity-driven scientific research is, in the long term, more advantageous over applied scientific research. Using examples of far-reaching scientific technologies (like electricity and the radio), the authors delve into its roots to show how scientists, driven by curiosity, slowly build knowledge. These were applied as technologies only when the knowledge received critical mass. This non-linear aspect to scientific endeavours, as the book argues, requires unhampered research motivated by curiosity alone. This is a must read book in the current "reward" oriented society, and especially for all students of science.
I have long been a supporter of funding going towards ideas, studies, etc.
that may not have an immediate or obvious practical purpose largely because I think there are far too many essential things in use today that came about because at some point, someone decided to take that risk.
I also don't think human creativity or imagination neatly fits into a "in 5 years the estimated return on this investment will be X amount of dollars so please fund me" template.
Many people today will slam ivory-tower "elites" without thinking about all the good that has come from those very people.
This is a wonderful little book. Literally on all counts, too. It's little. You can read it cover to cover in about an hour (I did one evening with a glass of wine at hand) and it's wonderful, basically a treatise for persuing knowledge for the sake of knowledge rather than for financial gain (the difference between basic and applied research).Definitely suggested to people in the intellectual property arena.
The real enemy of man is one who tries to mold the human spirit so that it will not dare to spread its wings.A magnificent piece on the beauty of human knowledge, the restless nature of human curiosity, and the resulting philosophical gratification and spiritual elevation it brings from understanding nature's deepest secrets. Knowledge must be pursued to knowledge's sake, without the consideration of it's practical utility. Leave that to us engineers :)
Newton যখন আপেল নিচে পড়ার রহসয নিয়ে বলছিল তখন অবশযই সে চিনতা করেনাই এইটা মানুষকে মহাবিশবে ভরমন করাবে,,Maxwell যখন আলোর তরঙগ তথয দিয়েছিল তখন সে বলেনাই এইটার উপর ভিততি করে মানুষের জীবন যাতরার মান change হবে,,তারা এইটি করেছিল just curiosity থেকে,এইটার বযবহার সমপরকে তারা একটা মুহুরত চিনতা করেনি,,মনে হয় তাদের সময় এইসব ছিল useless, যা বরতমান সভযতার চাবিকাঠি,,,Don't always think about usefulness of your work, because you can't tell when it will be useful ...
Newton যখন আপেল নিচে পড়ার রহস্য নিয়ে বলছিল তখন অবশ্যই সে চিন্তা করেনাই এইটা মানুষকে মহাবিশ্বে ভ্রমন করাবে,,Maxwell যখন আলোর তরঙ্গ তথ্য দিয়েছিল তখন সে বলেনাই এইটার উপর ভিত্তি করে মানুষের জীবন যাত্রার মান change হবে,,তারা এইটি করেছিল just curiosity থেকে,এইটার ব্যবহার সম্পর্কে তারা একটা মুহুর্ত চিন্তা করেনি,,মনে হয় তাদের সময় এইসব ছিল useless, যা বর্তমান সভ্যতার চাবিকাঠি,,,Don't always think about usefulness of your work, because you can't tell when it will be useful ...
Stay curious.Flexner has written about a problem we are still struggling with in our current education systems and society. We need to encourage questions and freedom to pursue curiosity. The pure pursuit of knowledge benefits us in the long-term and provides the foundation for the applied sciences.
It is what it is: a small treatise on the usefulness of not thinking about usefulness. It seems unfinished, but it was never meant to be a book or a final word on anything, so it still gets 4 stars. There is enough here to get your brain spinning off, so if you're in need of some quick, light, not-so-modern-but-still-relevant inspiration/validation, this one is for you.
I will be attending a talk by IAS Director Robbert Dijkgraaf, the author of this book, at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill on Thursday, September 14, starting at 5:30 p.m.This book of course sparks my reflexive rant against Baby Boomers and our failure to invest in the future.
A neat little essay celebrating the vanishing art of scientific dabbling. Not all of us have the luxury of having access to Princeton's Institute of Advanced Studies, but there are comforting messages here of the joys of exploring every alleyway - for the mere heck of it.
Not much new learned, but a good short read to remind yourself (or others) of the usefulness of useless knowledge.
meh
But that’s not their point: Their purpose is not these successes but instead the freeing of the human mind to reach its potential and explore.As Dr. Flexner writes: “The real enemy of the human race is not the fearless and irresponsible thinker, be he right or wrong.
The real enemy is the man who tries to mold the human spirit so that it will not dare to spread its wings.”A much-needed, full-throated argument about the power of human ingenuity in an age that relies entirely too much on results and charts and short-term, rigid thinking.
