https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/376514.The_Manchurian_Candidate
A deliciously cynical and satirical pseudo thriller black comedy about McCarthyism and 50s Americana.But wait!
– you say – black comedy??
Condon, who also wrote Prizzi's Honor, published The Manchurian Candidate in 1959, at the end of the ugly Red Scare era in American politics.
His scathing illustration of back room political machinations and our cultural passivity so long as there is food on the table and whiskey in the jar was in top form.Condon’s Senator Iselin is as abrasively torpid and jingoistically demagogistic as Buzz Windrip from Sinclair Lewis’ It Can't Happen Here.
Eleanor Iselin is as coldly domineering as Lady Macbeth and as twisted as Cruella DeVille.
I'll never read it again, but I would still like to see one or both of the movies!These are the two movies I never saw … uh, I guess that should be the two out of this book I ain’t seen, is that better?The one from 1962, when I was a frosh in college – and sittin’ right there in the middle of that Cuban missile thing, in Washington D.
Anyways, after I got over my surprise, I decided I kinda liked the way the book sounded, and the story was pretty tense as soon as it got goin', so I read it and finished it and liked it.
Let's talk about that second point.Consider this passage:"Nonetheless her Johnny had become the only American in the country's history of political villains, studding folk song and story, to inspire concomitant fear and hatred in foreigners, resident in their native countries.
And it is an expertly twisted suspense yarn -- one of the best I have ever read.It's become nearly impossible to discuss this particular book without reference to either of the movies, and I suppose that's a compliment to the movies themselves, the first of which is a bona-fide classic, the second of which is a better-than-average action flick.
Description: As compelling and disturbing as when it was first published in the midst of the Cold War, "The Manchurian Candidate" continues to enthrall readers with its electrifying action and shocking climax....Sgt. Raymond Shaw is a hero of the first order.
He's an ex-prisoner of war who saved the life of his entire outfit, a winner of the Congressional Medal of Honor, the stepson of an influential senator...and the perfect assassin.
He will act without question, no matter what order he is made to carry out.
Condon doesn't spend much space describing her looks - the reader gets to know Ms. Iselin as perfection embodied.
Practically unfilmable, The Manchurian Candidate is a great, satysfying read.
A very interesting look at mind control - but I think the true strength of this book is how it looks at mind control...how this control is accepted as a means to an end by those that are aware of the control; an element of control that is much deeper and much more insidious than just political control.
One of the best books I have ever read. The plotting & characters are strong and perfectly developed. It carries a humor that isn't brought forward in the cinema. A deeply funny and disturbing book.
In the preface to the edition I read (the Mysterious Book Club edition with a preface by David Willis McCullough [not to be confused with David McCullough, historian), DWM suggests that when thinking of the Raymond Shaw’s mother (Shaw is the novel’s protagonist), “try to imagine Hamlet’s Gertrude as played by Lady Macbeth.” Reference to Hamlet is worth keeping in mind while reading MC.
Shaw’s mother is, indeed, one of the most evil literary characters I know of: her reverse-Oedipal relationship with Shaw is staggering and, eventually, very reminiscent of Hamlet’s relationship with Gertrude in her bedroom, while her machinations are definitely those of Lady Macbeth.
Thirty years ago, I read this book after seeing a repeat of the movie on late night television.
Meanwhile, Raymond’s former captain (Marco) is having disturbing dreams in which Raymond coolly and unemotionally strangles and shoots several of his platoon members during the brainwashing sessions with the Chinese and Russian captors - sessions in which Raymond and his fellow soldiers were on display, but thinking they were attending a meeting of a ladies garden club!
Finally, he hunts Raymond down to determine whether he is also experiencing similar dreams.
This book has been on my "to read" list for more than 30 years.
The themes of the book are brainwashing, the Cold War, McCarthyism and its anticommunist hysteria, the isolation of many individuals in society, and a dysfunctional family of epic proportions.
After reading this book, I came to realize that I, too, have been brainwashed.
Be on the lookout for two men--Ben and Jerry--who have programmed me, through no doubt dispicable means, to eat their ice cream at every opportunity.
This is one weird book.
I've seen the old movie with Frank Sinatra.
There are places where you can't help but laugh, but you feel guilty as this isn't a funny book.
He is that bad--it's just that they are worse.If you remember or grew up in the 1950s, you should read this book.
If you didn't grow up in the 1950s, you should read this book.
If you have seen either or both of the movies, you should read this book.
If you have never seen either of the movies, you should read this book.Read This Book!
Probably one of the worst written books I have ever read. The concept was promising, but the delivery was atrocious, at least in my humble opinion.
This was really good. Not at all what I was expecting it to be, in a good way. I saw the Sinatra movie years ago, and somehow expected the book to be this dramatic political thriller. I wasn't prepared for satire and humor. It reminded me of Vonnegut. At the beginning it was downright funny, but got more serious when it started getting into the conditioning/brainwashing stuff. But it's satire, so there's always that underlying tongue-in-cheek tone. I really enjoyed this book and I'm so glad I finally picked it up.
I've heard about The Manchurian Candidate for years but hadn't seen the movie nor read the book. It's one I wish I would have read sooner! What a great book with lots of psychological twists and turns. If you've ever been curious about the book, it's worth reading!
I must say, it's interesting reading a book where the author seems to have contempt for nearly all of his characters.
A sergeant in the US Army during the Korean war, Raymond is utterly unlikable.
The first thing you know about Raymond is that you're not supposed to like him.That goes double for his mother, a power-mad harridan whose only motivation in this world is to fulfill her own ambitions,using anyone she can to do it.
And like I said, by the end of the book, you really do feel bad for Raymond.
You can't help but feel bad for him....
I thought the book was stunningly satiric and I think it fits so well with the National politics of 2017.
This book is over 50 years old and it's got us cold!OK let's admit it when you're in the middle of a national political nightmare it is wonderful to read a book that makes you laugh at yourself.
I think it was recorded in 2013 so I guess they thought they could still sell a few after all those years of cheap paperbacks.
I just think the book is wonderful and don't want to experience the sanitized movie versions.
Wouldn't you like to pass the time with a little game of solitaire?Simply put, this is one of the most disturbing and creepy books I have ever read!
I had watched bits of the movie years ago, but really didn't remember much about it -- so reading the book was a fresh experience for me.
In fact, he created one of the most notorious mothers in all of fiction (played so well by Angela Lansbury in the 1962 film version).NOTE: I don't know about the book, but the original movie was pretty much unavailable after JFK's assassination.
Grade: FI really wanted to like this novel, the movie was good but the book...holy cattle it is obnoxious! The style of writing was too much to take! Ugh! Attempted highbrow prose with the most ridiculous descriptions of people and things that I have EVER read! Sorry, couldn't be bothered to finish it therefore it automatically gets grade F!
I could do nothing but love this book and give it no less than 5 stars.
There were even words that stumped the Kindle's dictionary.
In my mind all of the characters were from the 1962 version; except Raymond Shaw who in my mind was firmly assigned to Liev Schreiber.
In the book Raymond Shaw is a blank.
He lacks most basic human emotions and passions and the casting of Lawrence Harvey was so perfect that despite his leading role he fails to imprint on you as Raymond Shaw in the book failed to connect with his colleagues and fellow soldiers.
Raymond Shaw is one of the least likable main characters I've ever met.
Which is a sad thing, to be unable to shed that.Even though I know the sort of brainwashing discussed in this book isn't currently possible (as far as we know) it was still very frightening.
I keep coming back to certain parts of it, taking them out, examining them again.I would suggest this book should be required reading.
And I also think that Raymond's mother should be on a list somewhere of fictions most disturbing villanesses!
I just found this book to be a fun read.
I probably did not take it as seriously as the author had meant for it to be taken when he wrote it in the late 1950s.
That was almost 56 years ago -- so yes the book is dated but that was part of what I enjoyed including the sometimes corny conversations and overblown descriptions the author used which would make me flinch if found today in a book written in 2015.
Bottom line, it kept me reading well into the night.
"The prune pie is very good, sir," the waitress said. He told her he'd take the prune pie and he hated her in a hot, resentful flash because he did not want prune pie. He hated prune pie and he had been maneuvered into ordering prune pie by a rube waitress who would probably slobber all over his shoes for a quarter tip.Above is my new favorite paragraph. Loved this book. Never seen the movie although now I really want to.
It has good ideas but my main thought throughout the whole book was how dry the writing was. I knew it wasn't an action thriller but even so; all events were too calm and lacked...passion maybe. Still glad I read it regardless as it's one of those books I've heard about quite often over the years.
Richard Condon became one of my favourite authors, and I think I read every novel he wrote.
He keeps having nightmares about his treatment as a POW in Korea, and gradually it comes back to him.It's a tightly written novel that's complex and involving, and the final scenes are - like a lot of Condon's novels - completely unexpected.
LOVED IT! everything about this book is what I want in my reading..intrigue, psychology, historical perspective, and crime!
The ways and groups include political parties or ideologies, the use of a military coup or the use of technology to usurp individual freedom and force conformity.
S. P.-ionage shelf is because it shares similarities with Brian Lumley's Necroscope series and some of Stephen King's novels like...
The History shelf because it does bring up the Korean War and references to the Kennedy and King Assassinations.
I always loved the movie, and finally found a copy of the book.
This is one of the few instances where the movie can add details to make a version just as interesting as the book.
Marco, one of his fellow soldiers, has been suffering nightmares (along with a fellow soldier) and uncovers the plot.As stated, I think the movie does a fine job in dealing with most of the book and adds some decent visual to the brainwashing scenes.
However, the book delves deeper into the twisted life of Shaw, which the movie would never have been able to handle (incest happens, for one).
It's a mystery to me why I haven't found this book on the best ever, especially given some of the crap that's listed! The Manchurian Candidate is amazing--creepy, disturbing, "makes you think" kind of amazing. A timeless look at the hypothetic underbelly of politics, as well.
I have read this book four times and seen both movie versions a few times. The first movie was far more like the novel. This is one of the most fascinating books I have ever read.
Awesome but uneven book, with flashes of magnificent brilliance, and a few clunker lines that sound like they came from the Bulwer-Lytton bad writing contest. Some quick sketches are dead on. Descriptions are so complete, they surpass the suspension of disbelief. The knowledge and erudition displayed are staggering. But some oblique metaphors so far removed, I’m astonished this book got released into the popular press. A wild, exciting, dangerous ride.Use this as a writing handbook of what to do and a few examples of what not to do.
