https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/47572.Witch_Week
Jones continues her delightfully nonchalant Chrestomanci series with Witch Week, set in a boarding school in a dimension very much like our own - except one with magic galore.
the tone is still light, dry, and rather deadpan, but the potential outcome for many of the young characters - and the flashbacks to a particular witch dying by fire - made the novel interestingly intense and unpleasant.
with the potential of inquisitors visiting the school, the kids - and adults - scramble and blame and plot like vicious little human rodents.
kids are mainly malevolent and small-minded.
This is the book that made me suspect that English boarding schools are secretly terrible and horrible! Even if they don’t (always) have people doing malicious magic in them. But then Year of the Griffin always dissuades me of this opinion.
Witch Week, while not my favorite Chrestomanci novel (I think I've said before that I don't like them as much as other books by Diana Wynne Jones), still charms me in its depiction of a boarding school in alternate-universe England, an England in which witchcraft is illegal and punished by being burned at the stake.
I think this is where Witch Week, for me, edges out the two earlier Chrestomanci books (Charmed Life and The Magicians of Caprona) because there are more characters who are fleshed out, even the ancillary ones, than in the other two books.
It's an enjoyable read, though I look forward to the next books in my reading project, all of which are in my top five DWJ books of all time.
I read it because I really liked Harry Potter and was searching for something in a similar vein.
My sister Erin pointed it out to me in the library because the cover of this book had kids riding brooms (or mops, etc.) and I immediately became invested in it.
This one is compared to the Potter series the most, because hey, witches in boarding school?
Endings you aren't expecting that have more than one level to them, and, I've noticed, she tends to culminate things with very large groups present all talking at once, with this book as no exception.Oh yes, and Christopher Chant/Chrestomanci?
Having re-read this (I picked up a volume of all four Chrestomanci books at Cupboard Maker Books recently, and now feel compelled to read all of them), I actually like it better now.
Despite there being NO dragons in this book, the premise is fun -- and the pacing is a lot better than Charmed Life, in my opinion.
I've always liked Jones' wit, and I even found myself laughing aloud in the section where Simon is struck dumb by his own words after he falls under an ill-placed spell.
The writing was cute and clever, and the children's voices and actions were spot-on.
This is the best of the Chrestomanci books. Anyone who says different can FIGHT ME.
This book was quite an adventure, in the most positive sense of the word. It had quite a number of moments that had me outright giggling, and an eclectic cast of characters that you alternated between rooting for one moment and cursing the next. Which I greatly appreciated. Also, I found Chrestomanci to be at his absolute best. So, really liked this one.
A brilliant classic book. Diana Wynne Jones was a masterful writer - and a lot of fun, too!
Read March 2015Re-read January 2017CHRESTOMANCIIIIIIII! <3
A boarding school class falls into chaos when a student is accused of being a witch.
The characterization is humane, critical, and innately humorous; the interaction between magics and the mundane is creative and, again, quite funny--a necessary balance against the darker setting and social dynamics.
It's the end with which I argue.
The meta-narrative concept remains compelling, and the climax has good logic and scale, but the trend away from magic isn't emotionally satisfying to an audience that 1) is probably here for the magic and 2) may be of the age or mindframe to project onto characters who are discovering and forgiving their own magical tendencies.
Witch Week is perhaps my least favorite book in the Chronicles of Chrestomanci.
Essentially, I liked everything in the book after Chrestomanci showed up.
I also liked seeing the school life, and Nan was probably my favorite, if I had to pick, although Nirupam is up there, too.“The note said: SOMEONE IN THIS CLASS IS A WITCH” is the best way to start a book ever.But...ugh, the students.
Charles is okay, at first, but towards the end he’s just mean, and arrogant, and really, really stubborn.
Chrestomanci was right, you weren’t thinking, Charles.Witch Week also lacks some of the humor and charm that I love about Jones’s works.
Simon and Theresa are as evil as those awful mean girls in Blubber, but for some reason they seem less threatening.
It probably helps that Charles and Nan had both their own magical powers and Chrestomanci to help them; poor old Blubber had no one (similarly, with the exception of Chrestomanci, who essentially made them solve the problem on their own, both books are full of bullies and the oblivious teachers who don't seem to notice or do notice but don't care).10/19/17 I haven't re-read Witch Week in almost exactly seven years, far too long to have gone without reading it.
Dunia dalam ‘Witch Week’ adalah salah satu dari beberapa dunia yang muncul dalam serial Chrestomanci.
Namun, berbeda dari buku-buku sebelumnya, di dalam ‘Witch Week’ menjadi penyihir adalah sebuah aib.
Siapa pun yang ketahuan sebagai penyihir bisa jadi akan dihukum mati dengan cara dibakar.
Tentang betapa tak enaknya dihina karena mempunyai nama yang aneh, atau terus menerus dipukul karena ayahmu adalah seorang guru di sekolah.
Ya, pengalaman bersosialisasi dan mencari serta memahami identitas diri di sekolah inilah yang menjadi bagian yang maknawi dalam ‘Witch Week’.
Dan seperti dalam kehidupan nyata, jangan remehkan mereka yang kita anggap ‘culun’.
Bisa jadi mereka mempunyai kekuatan yang tak terkira.
It all started when I tried to read a book about Palestine and it was entirely too dry for the exhausted state I'm in (I teach - nuff said) so I pulled this from my shelf.
She's the one I crawl to whenever I need a comfort read and Witch Week was no different.
She throws you right into the action in class 6B where someone is accused of being a witch..
a dangerous accusation in a world where they burn witches and those suspected of being a witch.
All the kids in Larwood orphanage are witch orphans so they suspect each other, yet which among them is a witch?

I think it is too harsh for its intended readers - middle grade. And too didactic for the adults. The usual author's charm is missing from this book as well. Definitely not my favorite.
Clever, but boring: an odd combination.
Bettie's Books
My friends, you should have been much more evangelical about Diana Wynne Jones. I could have been reading her for the past thirty years. Shame on all of you. I feel like I've wasted half my life.
“It never ceases to amaze me the way people always manage to worry about the wrong things.”  Larwood House faces turbulent times when an anonymous note claims there is a witch in class! In a world where magic is forbidden and witches are burnt, no one wants to be found out. Curious things start to happen and students and teachers alike begin to mistrust each other. If things continue to go wrong, the Inquisitor will come and put an end to it and whoever is behind the witchcraft.I am glad that I
If things continue to go wrong, the Inquisitor will come and put an end to it and whoever is behind the witchcraft.I am glad that I am reading the Chrestomanci series in the order that Diana Wynne Jones suggested as Witch Week might have put me off from reading the rest.
I was happy with the way things turned out for the main cast and an ending like that gave more depth to characters who were overwise just stereotype bullies.
I suppose it just comes to show that in the end, bullies are also just people.
The book is set at Larwood, a boarding school, and begins with one of the best opening lines ever that immediately catches your attention and raises the stakes - "The note said: SOMEONE IN THIS CLASS IS A WITCH." I think the fascinating thing reading this book was how apparent that a lot of the basis for Harry Potter, especially the first book, was probably inspired by this book - but I think that's the most extent as I would go comparing the two.
So, imagine it is the mid-80s, and you are an eight year-old American kid in a small town who has no idea who the fuck Guy Fawkes is?I was SO CONFUSED the first time I read this book.
But I also remember being spectacularly confused by some significant plot points the first time I read it.Rereading as an adult for the first time in a number of years, I had no such problems.
من اسم الرواية ممكن خيالك يشطح وتتخيل اسبوع السحره الجنوني الي تطير فيه الساحرات على المقشات ويستخدم
Unexpectedly brutal. Two stars seems a bit harsh but I don't think I'm the target audience anymore.
It’s been years since I picked up a book by one of my all time authors Diana Wynne Jones. Her dry humor in this novel provided many hearty laughs. I’m sure I looked like a crazy woman cackling to myself as I read it. Looking forward to rereading the rest of this series.
a month too early for this really but it's still good
Only a master writer like Diana Wynn Jones could manage to tackle topics such as bullying by children and persecution of adults by other adults in a book for younger readers without making the book dire, depressing, dull, or slow. This book manages to be a pleasure to read even while addressing painful topics.
Mundinho pequeno, não?Minha edição é uma que vem com os quatro volumes juntos, mas aqui no Brasil elas foram publicadas em separado e falarei um pouquinho sobre cada um dos livros, começando por Vida Encantada.Nesse primeiro volume, somos apresentados a Eric “Gato” Chant, um garoto aparentemente comum que está sempre seguindo e obedecendo sua irmã mais velha, Gwendolen, uma bruxa brilhante e extremamente talentosa.
A primeira coisa a se observar aqui é algo que descobrimos já no volume anterior – o mundo de Crestomanci é apenas um entre vários e a história que se descortina por trás das ações de Charles, Nan, Brian e os outros alunos da sala 6B não se passam no mesmo universo em que Eric descobre afinal porque seu apelido é Gato.Esse mundo está cheio de bruxas só que...
DWJ's prose style may not be "quality," in my definitions, but it is definitely highly "enjoyable" without being "transparent." There's a certain archness to the way she writes.
There's something about this very DWJ-ish type of plotting that really works for me - I suppose it's the way it balances creativity and originality with repetitiveness and structure.c) I can never manage to be as sympathetic to Charles Morgan as perhaps I should - he is not a type I have much empathy for, and Nan really is - but as an adult I do like the way that the book goes to such extreme lengths to make it clear that Brian Wentworth, who in any other children's book I can imagine would be a sympathetic character, isn't.
I've often seen people compare Witch Week to Harry Potter, and put Witch Week on lists of recommended books for people that like Harry Potter. After all, they both star kids with magical powers attending a boarding school. However, I don't really think that it's the best comparison. They may both be fantasy novels that have some similarities in setting, but they really aren't the same type of fantasy novel. Harry Potter is more of an epic fantasy with the main conflict focusing on good vs evil.
In Witch Week, the main conflict comes from the characters' flaws and the society they live in.
The fact that the driving force behind the story is different gives the stories two different feels, so while it is quite possible to enjoy both books, I don't think that Witch Week should automatically be recommended to everyone that likes Harry Potter.
I do like this book a lot though, so I would recommend it to a lot of people, especially those that enjoy character driven stories.
They all respond to having magic in a setting where witchcraft is illegal differently while all still being very realistic.
