https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/135892.The_Family
Being an expert is the only reason he could get away with this total turd of a book.
His writing alternates between unengaging and annoying, bogged down with over-worded sentences and his horrible hippie slang.
For instance, he'll say something like 'Manson and some other Caucasians' did something or other.
It's, of course, superfluous to mention that since Manson was a white supremacist and the other Caucasians were already named and described earlier, he's just trying really hard to write.
Here's another gem, "She gave Linda Kasabian some Zu-Zu's-Mansons term for candy-which Linda put in her pocket".
Find another book on the subject.
this book is awesome in a teenage boy who's really into death metal and smokes pot all day kind of way. also, if you're into group dynamics, the occult, California as alternate universe, or really amazing hippie slang.
This book came up and was sitting on the dining room table the next day for my delectation.I first heard of Ed Sanders early in high school when the local "fine arts station" played music by his band, The Fugs, on their Saturday night program, "The Midnight Special." The Fugs were outrageously countercultural and quite possibly were the first "rock" band I actually liked.
My appreciation of rock music snowballed soon thereafter.I suppose I heard about Charlie Manson back around the time of the Tate-Bianca murders.
It led to me reading this book.Sanders' The Family was written just as the relevant trials were starting and, so, is in no way definitive.
Ed Sanders (ex-Fug, leader of the counterculture, circa '67, according to Life magazine) should be commended for the kitchen sink approach he takes to his subject.
He includes every unanswered question, rumor and crackpot conspiracy theory related to Manson, his accomplices and their crimes.
He does his best to illuminate shadowy satanic cults supposedly wandering the California coast at the time.
He even includes a hand written note from Manson accusing the author of being a long-time CIA agent.
This material is more fascinating and "out there" than typical true crime fare.
Unfortunately, Sanders stumbles beneath the weight of organizing it all.
Another paperback pilfered from my mother.
There's a sarcasm to the style that makes the narrative much more disturbing than the true-life crime accounts.
When I thumbed through this not long ago, I happened upon such a bizarre passage about the relationship between Charlie and a minister named Moorehouse who basically pimped his 14-year old over to the Family in return for a hummer (from Charlie!) that I went to Google to try to find out whatever happened to the guy.
I was shocked to discover that many Family members are out there, still alive and in varying stages of Mansonmania.
Very disturbing.
My brother and I both loved this book......we inherited an obsession of famous killers from our mom...morbid huh? We find them fascinating though.....how they can do what they do and what makes them do what they do......
There were times I couldn't put the book down, then other times when I couldn't read a page without nodding off.
However, Sanders could have really benefited from some serious face-time with an editorial red pen.
Several passages read like he put every single detail from depositions and police reports into the book.
If properly edited, the book could have been at least 50 pages shorter, and probably even shorter.Now, the content itself was fascinating.
I can see how others would find it boring.Ultimately I'd say that anyone who was really fascinated by the Manson family might want to read this but if you aren't, you'll find it boring.
Fast-buck Manson book by some sort of hippie journalist. Full of gory details and written in a fast, breezy style, but clearly not the work of a professional.
The book careens haphazardly from one topic to another – and much of what is described relates only loosely the Manson Family.
Even for someone familiar with the Manson Family story, it’s extremely difficult to follow what’s happening.I should also point out that my (1970s-era, library) copy of the book features a (manipulated) picture of Charles Manson, wearing a red velvet jacket, with amputated hands (...AMPUTATED HANDS).I suspect everyone involved in the production of this book – from Ed Sanders to the guy who designed the cover image – was very, very high at the time.
Nope. I enjoyed Helter Skelter by Vincent Bugliosi when I read it years ago but this was poorly written. I hated Ed Sanders writing style. He kept writing the most ridiculous things. I wouldn't recommend this book unless you want to read everything to do with the Manson murders.
Troppo lungo, dispersivo e scritto male, non trovo aggettivo migliore.Se riesci ad annoiare quando scrivi un libro su un argomento simile, c'è decisamente qualcosa che non va.
The Family (published 2002) fka The Family: The Story of Charles Manson's Dune Buggy Attack Battalion by Ed Sanders (E.P. Dutton and Co., Inc. 1971) (301.4494) is a must-read for anyone interested in the Manson Family.
Whereas Helter Skelter presents the 1960's "establishment" view of the Manson Family as the boogeymen, Ed Sander's The Family: The Story of Charles Manson's Dune Buggy Attack Battalion is the "street version" of Manson from the hippie viewpoint and is filled with rumor, innuendo, and supposition which make this tale a juicy delight.
This book is utter crap written by an acid fried hippie. The book has little cohesion and goes off on long tangents on bullshit cults that may or may not have been associated with the Manson family. Also it mentions a parole hearing Manson had about a stolen car that took place on February 29th, 1959. 1959 was not a leap year. I'm surprised that this book ever got published let alone be considered the most comprehensive book after Helter Skelter on the Manson murders. This book is garbage
The Family is probably one of the most informative books to come along on this tragic and horrific case since Helter Skelter: The True Story of the Manson Murders. It includes full color photographs, testimonies from various people involved in the case and the psychology of the crimes and what drove a gang of hippies to commit them.
Although this book had a lot of information it seemed to have been written by more than 1 person. The writing style was uneven and at times boring. In my opinion, taking a little extra time to edit and create a smoother flow to the material would have turned this book into a good read instead of ok.
Boils Manson down to basically a pusher looking to frame other pushers so he could take over the trade. All occult/satan stuff severely downplayed. Couldn't make things less interesting if it tried. But accurate, I guess. Yawn?
This is a great book for me to read now that I'm living in Los Angeles and it's the best book on the Manson fam. Sanders unravels this grim tale and manages to pull a lot of humour out of his investigation.
Sanders, the founder of avant-folk group the Fugs and the future mayor of Woodstock, N.Y., wrote a cynical hippie's take on Manson.
Ironically its much more sober and restrained than prosecutor Vincent Bugliosi's take in Helter Skelter.
Sanders not only understood the music and hipster scenes of LA and SF that Manson tried and failed to make it in; he also investigated and documented the truly scary world of LA occultism in the 1960's.
The Manson Family was just the most hard-scrabble and violent cult of many.
Sanders couldn't solve every mystery of the case and he leaves many intriguing threads dangling but answers many other questions.
"I did read Bugliosi's Helter Skelter some time ago, so this is the second and decidedly last book I need to read on the subject. If you haven't read any, go with Helter Skelter, this one is written in an almost unreadable kind of spoken narrative prose, with most grammar rules thrown aside, annoying expressions and an enormus amount of errors. The 'unique' revelations of the book are either unbelievable, incoherent, incomplete, uninteresting or all of those. Got the idea to read about Roman Polanski, though, so some good may come of it... "
With Manson's magic sword and dune buggy brigade he led his goon-hippies to the Hole. 1969 must have truly been the strangest time in American history. Ed Sanders gives you a slice of it.
Interesting closer look at the inner workings of the Manson family. Really not what I expected at all.
However, I don't think a view on the topic is complete without at least one read of Sanders' The Family.Sanders captures the madness of the time in which all of this happened.
People who are hating on this book because of its use of slang are simply overlooking a beautiful aspect of it, which is how much it mirrors the culturally revolutionary flavor of the time it all went down in.
Sanders' book is perhaps a bit more difficult to read than the other Manson books because it makes so much use of the lingo of its time.
Sanders is alright in my book, if only for the Fugs.
Yet I'm not sure what this book is.
Reportage with opinion, not quite gonzo.
Let's just get it all down, Sanders seems to say.
Let's identify it with an oo-ee-oo!
Make sure to identify the race and class of the speaker.It's good stuff, don't get me wrong.
In the end, Ed Sanders reportage is much like his poetry: almost, but not quite.Still, this work is hugely important because it can inform actual historians who might take all this raw stuff and give it the analysis it deserves.
Man, that’s a funny song.
Anyway, knowing a little about the guy and having listened to some Fugs here and there, I thought a Manson book by the guy would have to be good.It is.
I don’t think I’ve read Bugliosi’s book but I would imagine, coming from an attorney, it’s pretty cut and dried.
There were actually parts that were laugh out loud funny.
Rather than trivialize Manson’s sick little games, Sanders irony makes it seem all the more horrid.
that he was the best person to write a book about Manson.OO-ee-oo.
I read this back when it was quite new, and have been reviewing it recently as part of research for my third novel.
I appreciate it more now than I did originally, and Ed Sanders' recent memoir, *Fug You,* adds some clarity to his perspective.
I'm dubious now, as I was then, about the credibility of the witnesses who told him some of the more lurid "cult" stories.
Nevertheless, I'm sure that Sanders himself was sincere about what he reported, and the book offers a fascinating picture of the far-fringe counter-culture of the 60s in unvarnished terms.Scariest thing about this book?
Sanders has a unique style, almost ESL, which takes us into the evil empire of Charles Manson.
Recently, the novel "The Girls" went over the same bloody ground, but in a rather superficial way that minimized the evil that these lost souls perpetrated.
This account is perhaps most valuable in its analysis of all the ideas that were floating around at that time, biker gangs, distopic science fiction, beatle lyrics.
It's reassuring to know that Manson remains in jail, unlikely to be paroled any time soon.
The book to end all books on Manson, written with great humor, sadness, horror, and--of course--poetry by a counter-culture icon from Independence, Missouri, the founder of the Fugs, and publisher of much wonderful verse, Ed Sanders.
Blows HELTER SKELTER out of the water with both hands tied behind his back, with ten times the insight.
Meticulously researched--and Sanders had access to (what he would call) creepy-crawly portals to the hippie netherworld Bugliosi didn't even know about.
No attempts to excuse Manson, by the way--Sanders, you can tell, is pretty hacked off (so to speak) that Charlie was essential to the collapse of the Sixties left.
I loved the original edition of this book.
I had spent some time as a wandering hippie in California and this book captures the feeling amazingly well.
The later, revised edition is far inferior to the original.
Sanders, older and wiser, tries to be a journalist instead of a storyteller/poet and the book suffers.
The story follows Charlie the parolee as he inserts himself into the hippie-dippy LA Topanga Canyon scene.
And went progressively insane, leading his drugged-out zombie followers into perdition.
Sander's lyrical language gives a life to the now-forgotten hippie scene in Cali and ties The Family in with other creep-cults (a Sanders term).
Having read a good half dozen books on the MANSON case this remains my favorite in fact my 1st edition copy is one of my favorite books I'd recommend anyone looking to read this book go on Ebay and buy a 1st edition copy which can usually be found in the $20 dollar range Later editions had a major chapter pertaining to The Process Church of Final Judgement removed do to a lawsuit brought against Sanders the author
Considered the key critical (detailed) study of the Manson Family. I'm interested in the need for a community and culture experienced by these kids and how these needs played out in the mayhem they joined with seemingly so readily.
