https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/252.Sexus
I'm an artist, blah blah blah blah blah, I have promiscuous sex, blah blah blah blah blah, my wife is a lesbian, blah blah blah blah blah, I just got some genital warts, blah blah blah blah blah, banged my wife's lesbian lover, blah blah blah blah blah, I'm a poet, blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah....
As a no-holds-barred relic of the sleazy 1920s, this is an audacious text, marred by passages of sublime arrogance, outrageously boring prose soup, and inane porn scenes. Miller’s status as a provocateur is well-earend, his style a frenetic mash-up of Dostoevsky, Lawrence and Selby. Sexus is incoherent, meandering and shameless, but compelling and unavoidably stimulating.
That he is with Mara, who, at a certain moment, asks Kronski "humbly" if "she is really worthy of Henry" (!!!), does not prevent him from fornication on the right and on the left, and even with his lawful wife while both of them started their divorce proceedings.
No one is perfect, they say to themselves and at least we can not tax hypocrisy this writer who perseveres to paint in such colors.Ultimate wink addressed to the reader by the text itself: the anecdote that Miller reports on Knut Hansum, one of the authors he loved.
Miller is a nutjob, and often times you can't help but loathe his actions and are revolted by his way of thinking, but this is where he succeeds and makes his strongest victories.
Obviously there is a strong emphasis on the book's sexual proclivities as it was a pivotal moment in the deconstruction of our country's censorship laws, but Miller (I believe) is not trying to be overtly graphic in his sex writing merely to shock people so he can sell more books.
Miller was an especially amorous person, so a book about his life is going to contain a lot of sexual writing.
I believe that the trilogy title The Rosy Crucifixion is a free interpretation of the mystical term Rosicrucianism – the Order of the Rosy Cross… Thus Henry Miller is a Rosicrucian and alchemist of passion and the name of the novel Sexus wholly expresses the contents of the book.The best thing about writing is not the actual labor of putting word against word, brick upon brick, but the preliminaries, the spade work, which is done in silence, under any circumstances, in dream as well as in the waking state.
I feel like I’ve been let in a secret club of people who can feel so deeply that their hearts beat in the spine of the book, who can be filled with so much of anything that their blood oozes in the spaces between letters.
His portrayal of himself is pathetic: he’s a man of a thousand vices, of which just the first are women and alcohol, he is weak in his will to do anything except for laying around and having fun, he is defined, ultimately, by his cowardice and laziness.
What the general reader or the critic makes of them is not my concern." Maintaining Henry’s charm; let the perversity surge.Ladies and gentlemen, I am Henry Miller and I’m in a gratifying allegiance with my penis.
Predominantly, it is my sexual navigation of an exotic creature – Mara; not before circumnavigating Irene, Sylvia and numerous dripping lassies.
Fucking her makes me feel like a necrophiliac.
My common sense does take a hike at times, but that’s who I am – a raunchy, egoistical mastermind of sexual emancipation.Hush Miller!
Henry Miller always writes with a surge of life being pushed through his pen.
His stories, countless stories, always with another point of view - at one moment, as an all-knowing superior man, and the next, as a good-for-nothing, useless piece of garbage that's floating about the air.
The view that Henry Miller is attempting to show himself off as some kind of Casanova has never come through to me.
This is what it was.' and before you know it, he's gallanting into some other room, all together unconcerned with the scene he was just inextricably a part of.Who hasn't received something from reading some Henry Miller?
You can keep reading for many successive hours without felling boring except for the unnecessary porn scenes.The most remarkable parts in Sexus are :- When he tried to get rid of Maude by convincing her ex-lover to save her from him.- The party he arranged for his friends when he got the bonus.- His definition of creation and creativity.- How Melanie got into the book.- His dream of Una.- Kent Hamson's letter.- Finally the most beautiful parts i've ever read by Miller until now is the last 50 pages which starts with Cleo at Minsky brothers then the two deaths of Osmanli the Turk, and the end with Miller the dog and his woof!

ما الذي يمكن قوله في كتاب عنوانه اللاتيني يعني " الجنس " !هذا الكتاب كان ممنوعاً في أمريكا بلد الكاتب نفسه .
و بما أن الجنس جزء أساسي من الحياة فلن يتورع عن كتابته بكل فحش !
و هو بعيداً عن ذلك - في الحقيقة هو لا يبتعد بالقدر الكافي - كتاب مليء بفلسفة هنري اللاذعة و سخريته النارية و تأملاته الشاطح منها و المصيب بدقة .
يتناول العلاقات الاجتماعية حتى العظم ، كما يهاجم المباديء الحمقاء التي لا بد من التنازل عنها لصالح الحياة .
و هو يقدس الحياة و يحب أن يعيشها كاملة حتى أقصى حدّ .
صبوات أو سكسوس هي أول الكتب في "ثلاثية الصلب الوردي " والتي تصنف كونها سيرة ذاتية لهنري ميلر ميلر من الرواة القلّه الذين يمتلكون دقة الوصف وقوة التعبير حتى لكأن المشاهد تصوّر أمامك في فيلم طويل ..
وطويل جداً ..
وهذا ما قد يعيبه ..
إذ أن إيقاع الملل يستبد بك حين وتتمكن أنت منه حيناً آخر يحكي الجزء الأول معاناة فشل زواجه وطريقه في الوقوع بحب امرأة أحلامه التي كانت "عاهره" ..
وصراع الكبار في وظيفته الصغيره هي بالتأكيد كحياة أي كاتب آخر ..
ولكنك ستعشق الكثير من الاقتباسات التي لن تراها إلا تجسّد حالتك بالأمس ..
هنري ميللر هذا الرجل المجنون يخبرك عن صبواته لا في جلسة سرية معه في مقهى معتم يشغل الموسيقا بصوت مرتفع يمنعك من التركيز فيما يقوله من يرافقك، بل يخبرك بهذه الصبوات بكل تفاصيلها في جلسة علنية وبأعلى صوت يمكن لإنسان أن يجهر به ..
هذا رجل يؤمن بأن من يتخلى عن رؤياه يقع في متاهة لا منجاة منها سوى بالموتهذا الرجل فج كمخرز ..
هذا الرجل يخبرك ما معنى الحياة بكل فجاجة وصدق وصرامة أيضاملحوظاتيص 468جنونلم يكن سيفلح لو أصبح راهبا، فلقد ولد وهو يحمل ضغينة ضد العالمالحب مقامرة وليس وثيقة تأمينإن من يتخلى عن رؤياه يقع في متاهة لا منجاة منها سوى بالموتالفصل الاخير يمزقك حرفيا يجذب شقي قلبك كلا في ناحبة لتستيقظ وتعي كم قاسية هذه الحياة
Perfection.
It tries to be a philosophical book like Brothers Karamazov, but all the caracter has to make philosophy is his sexual adventures or lack of good life.I don’t know if my christian thinking and way to see life made me a wrong reader of this book or if it is really that bad, but the fact is that Sexus sucks!It is difficult to follow the line of thought and the sequences at Miller’s life.
I know now this is definitely a book I will never finish reading.
I loved this book the first I read it.
The moments when he meets June Mansfield Smith, Mona, Mara whatever are sublime.
This is warts and all story telling of one mans defeat in everything he was puruing in life but he continues to spit out his philosophical arguments and his world view at the very moments when he is at his lowest ebb, oblivious to how incongrous this may all seem.
The book is a revelation on the duplicity that exists in the human personality and how ego can drive us on when all else has failed.
If you want to liberate your repressed sexual appetite- read these books.
This book, like many others, describes his sexual escapades, affairs with married women, his incessant mooching and irresponsibility- however, if you are even a little repressed, his life will seem exciting and full of sexual encounters that will make you envious- or want to go out and find lots of people to sleep with.
Having said that, if you feel like your life is caving in or monotony and routine are getting the best of you and you don't know how to get out of it- Read Sexus for a jump start.
First in the "Rosy Crucifixion" trilogy ~ I can't help but love Henry Miller. He's so full of life. His books get a lot of attention for the sexual content but they are also balanced for love of life's other treats as well. Love of people, love of food, love of life itself ~ although he seems to have a strong hate for the "everyday man's" work and a love-hate relationship with New York ~ I plan on reading as much Miller as I can.
The work of Henry miller is in my opinion unsurpassed for opening up a new way of looking at literature. His broad in your face style masks the deeper underlying wants and desires of the human psyche. His wife June wanted Dostoyevsky but Miller could only write as Miller. He remains one of my favorites till this day...the rogue, brash arbiter of American expat writing.
Henry Miller is one raunchy fella.
Sexus reminds me a lot of a pared-down and more accesible version of Beautiful Losers.
There are similar themes running through both: sex and the divinity of the body, direct experience taking precedent over intellectualism, the role of the writer in history/as a story-teller, etc.
What is funny about this book (and something that also irks me a little bit) is the Bataille-like, self-consciously trangressive tone that reads like what it is - a cocky, self-indulgent writer testing his audience and their limits, while pretending to be sly about it.
This is a good read, an easy read, and between great sex scenes there are long philosophical rants that are beautiful and thought-provoking.
I mention my thoughts here, though I could pick virtually any Henry book.
I've read most of them, often a number of times.
These books are totally unique, reveries, presentations of how man might live if he only had the notion and carried through on it.
These books stand in total juxtaposition to the mind-conditioned state of society.
They are free rambles, though carefully plotted and written!
They discuss and elaborate on all man's ideas and dreams, crazy actions and adventures--both in real life and in the mind.
God how lucky people are who've never read Henry and stumble upon a book like this.
I love getting lost in the jungle of divigations with Miller. Getting lost, finding way, realizing, and repeating. It is an explosion and implosion of the mind. I say jungle but it is more like a web, a spider web of maniacal paths, with Miller in it, of it, around it, shouting, whispering, singing, bleating madly, weeping, singing, singing, singing. I cry with overwhelming joy and other pitiful inexplicable feeling simply thinking of his name and the art he has given us here.In short,"You should def read it, bro."On to Plexus!
رائع أيها الهنري الداعر. الجنس هو قالب ميللر الذي يصب فيه فلسفته ورؤيته الفنية للحياة والنفس. ومع التفاصيل الغير عادية لحياته الجنسية التي يذكرها، أجدني غير مبال بالقائلين: هل هذا مقبول أو غير مقبول، لأن ما يذكره، ويحكيه عن حياته وتلك الحقبة الزمنية من عمر أمريكا، هنا يجعلني أتجاوز تلك النقطة، بلا مبالاة تامة..طبعا، سأستريح، أو بالأحري سآخذ هدنة قبل أن أشرع في المتابعة مع الجزء الثاني من ثلاثيته العجائبية: الصلب الوردي..
BEST book EVER!!!!
هنري يظهر للناس نفسه .. بكل سفاله و طيبه، بكل بساطه وعفويه. تحدث ميلر في هذا العمل باجزائة عن نفسه وعن مجتمعه في اهم حقبه من حقب المجتمع الامريكي
Read this as a youth, of course - not today. But I think that people who want to 'get' Miller should read Sexus, Pexus, and Nlexus - not the Tropics.
Momentami ta książka jest świetna. Są fragmenty doskonałej, soczystej prozy, w której mnóstwo się dzieje. Jest żywa i brutalna i bardzo sexy. Nie tylko dlatego, że dosadne opisy seksu w różnorakich konfiguracjach są tu na porządku dziennym. Także dlatego, że jest psychologicznie wiarygodna. Ale ponieważ to nie jest zwykła książka, tylko powieść z wielkimi ambicjami, więc ta świetna proza jest przetykana rozmyślaniami dotyczącymi filozofii, psychologii czy nawet teorii literatury. I te fragmenty
​Momentami ta książka jest świetna.
Są fragmenty doskonałej, soczystej prozy, w której mnóstwo się dzieje.
Nie tylko dlatego, że dosadne opisy seksu w różnorakich konfiguracjach są tu na porządku dziennym.
Ale ponieważ to nie jest zwykła książka, tylko powieść z wielkimi ambicjami, więc ta świetna proza jest przetykana rozmyślaniami dotyczącymi filozofii, psychologii czy nawet teorii literatury.
Ta powieść jest niezwykła ze względu na bohaterów i to co się z nimi dzieje.
Jak by chciał przekonać publiczność, że to nie jest tylko książka o pieprzeniu się ze wszystkimi bezustannie.
Ale nie przepadam za przemądrzalstwem.
Ale ogólnie cieszę się, że ją przeczytałem i na pewno przeczytam kolejne części.
Also, this is not the kind of novel where one should look to the characters as any source of inspiration or even search for a moment of self-discovery in them.
Flawed and scornful as we all can be at times, Miller's characters were indeed but 500+ pages of Miller dreaming about being a great writer peppered with him diddling this woman and that woman along the way was for me rather self-indulgent.
In some respects, he was much like other great writers seeking answers.
If anything, this trilogy proved for me that Miller was at the height of writing power when he penned The Tropics of Cancer and Capricorn.
Why do lovely faces haunt us so?
At nine or earlier, with a revolver that was never intended to go off, she might have pressed a swooning trigger and fallen like a dead swan from the heights of her dream.
In her heart a bell tolled, but what it signified no one knew.
Her image corresponded to nothing that I had formed in my heart.
She had intruded it, slipped it like thinnest gauze between the crevices of the brain in a moment of lesion.
And when the wound closed the imprint had remained, like a frail leaf traced upon a stone.
