https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/68380.Dragonlance_Chronicles
CONCEPT: A group of adventurers are chosen to help drive back the Evil from another world led by the Dark Queen.MARKETING APPEAL: The DRAGONLANCE chronicles had the whole AD&D industry behind them; TSR used this tale as a marketing ploy, using their fans and game designers (to set up the world); then, they took some above average writers to do the first trilogy; Set up in a typical AD&D adventure (rag tag group of mixed adventurers off to save the world with promise of great magic, great evil, great good and an epic scale) the series took off as a bestseller; royalties were probably astounding.SCORING: Superb (A), Excellent (A-), Very good (B+), Good (B) Fairly Good (B-) Above Average (C+), Mediocre (C ), Barely Passable (C-) Pretty Bad (D+), Dismal (D), Waste of Time (D-), Into the Trash (F)DIALOGUE: B/B-/C/D (C ) STRUCTURE: B+ HISTORY SETTING: B (A to game designers) CHARACTERS: B+/B/B-/C/C- (C+) EVIL SETUP/ANTAGONISTS: B- EMOTIONAL IMPACT: B SURPRISES: A- LITTLE THINGS: A- MONSTERS: B (A- to game designers) PACING: B+ OVERALL STYLE: B FLOW OF WORDS: B+/C+ CHOICE OF FOCUS: B+ TRANSITIONS/FLASHBACKS/POV: B COMPLEXITY OF WORDS/SYMBOLISM/THEMES: B-OVERALL GRADE: BHISTORY SETTING: Absolutely brilliant.
this marvelous series, which I read when I was probably 15 or 16, and which is a really wonderful piece of fantasy storytelling.
I consider these two friends to be two of the most well-read humans on the planet; they're two of the biggest literary nerds I have ever known, or could imagine knowing.
The three of us agreed -- without any trace of irony -- that Raistalin, from this Dragonlance series, is one of the best characters in literature.I'll let that sink in for a moment.We're talking about a short list that probably includes Stephen Dedalus, Hamlet, Patrick Bateman, and Clarrisa Dalloway.
I have to give these five stars because my love of fantasy stems from my stumbling onto these, and reading them, as a teenager.
He was always the character that I loved.
Every fantasy stereotype is there, you have a quest, you have the battles, you have betrayal, you have good and bad and evil, and most of all, you care about them.
Read this trilogy when I was 13 and really enjoyed it at the time - not as much as Stephen Donaldson or Terry Brooks or even Weis & Hickman's other series: The Rose of the Prophet, and The Darksword Trilogy.
The Dragonlance Chronicles suit those after a Tolkienesque world but one more accessible like Terry Brooks'.
I'd recommend the trilogy for fantasy lovers and D& D fans and also young adult readers.
I'm glad that the trilogy had me ripping through the pages as a young teenager -it added to my love of reading.Would I enjoy it now as an adult?
This review was written in the late nineties (just for myself), and it was buried in amongst my things until today, when I uncovered the journal it was written in.
It is one of my lost reviews.An epic fantasy of Tolkien-like scope?!
The other characters are much, much better.
Laurana, Flint, Gilthanis, Alhana, Tika, Fizban, Tasslehoff, Caramon and Raistlin are all superior to the Chronicles' hero.
But the character who is the true Hero of the Lance is Sturm Brightblade.
He is a straight-up, no-joke hero, and I love him -- which shocks me, to be honest.
A hero I love.
I made it through them this time, but barely: they are really not good.The writers use as their framework the "alignment" concept from the Dungeons and Dragons manual: the tic tac toe grid of lawful / neutral / chaotic and good / neutral / evil.
Each character is also one of that manual's races and classes: there's a big dumb neutral good fighter and a noble lawful good paladin and a shady chaotic neutral mage and so on.
The plot is "evil power wants to take over the world and only a small group of adventurers can stop them" paint by numbers fantasy.It's just a Dungeons and Dragons campaign, written down.
Raistlin: Hope is the denial of reality. It is the carrot dangled before the draft horse to keep him plodding along in a vain attempt to reach it.Tannis: Are you saying we shouldn't hope?Raistlin: I'm saying we should remove the carrot and walk forward with our eyes open..T_TYup...yup. Best conversation of characters in a high fantasy setting.EVER!!The best fantasy book series i've ever read.
I actually came across these books seeking something to interest my son in reading.
He had up to that point been uninterested in books and we're a familly of readers.
I was concerned.But, using the wisdom of all good parents (get him something that is totally without merit and has no educational value) I introduced him to the Dragon Lance books (I'd discovered Dungeons and Dragons in 1978) and since I got them for my son I read them to.Ever played D&D?
The books are really quite enjoyable, so, enjoy.
While the Dragonlance Chronicles will most probably never be considered in the canon of classic literature, it has an important place in molding how we perceive the genre of fantasy today.
I also feel that the impact outside of TSR extended throughout the genre and led the way to the popularity of fantasy that we see in fiction, film and television (and almost every aspect of merchandising imaginable) that we enjoy today.
Now, fantasy is everywhere in film and television and I feel that a big part of that is due to the popularity of the original Dragonlance Chronicles.In regards to the novels themselves, I feel that they are well written, enjoyable pieces of fantasy fiction that really take the reader along with them on their journey.
How I made it through the second book, I don't know, and by the time I got to the third book, I just wanted to get the thing over with and ploughed through it as fast as I could.In my eyes, this book has achieved an all-time record: as much as I hate Terry Brooks and his writing and can rant endlessly about how atrocious his stuff is.
I have never had a book raise such a hellfire within me, to literally want to destoy it everytime I picked it up.
The reason was that I didn't feel that it would be the same reading someone else's story, I 'd much rather live it through my DM.
I was not used to it, I like the version of D&D sessions that ACTUALLY the character develops him/herself through the story.
The only problem was that it's so much different when you read an action scene than living it through your D&D character.
The whole trilogy is, in general, easy-to-read, with good action scenes, but, to speak the truth, if someone has played D&D before, something is missing.
Maybe, for D&D players, the thrill to develop their character and live through the story.
Okay, let's start by clarifying that these books are not literature, even though there's a whole generation of Xers (Gen-Xers) who would claim otherwise because many of them were coming of age reading these novels.I owned my copies from the time I was about 22, but never read them all the way through until I was closer to 35.
The characters were beyond even decent graphic novel caliber in their exaggerated, stereotyped behavior and imagery.
I read this book, technically three books, when I was about 12 years old.
It was the first 1,000 page+ book I ever read, and I adored it.
I don't know how well the book would stand up today.
It is certainly better than a lot of the fantasy books I've read.
You were watching him gain more and more power, but you weren't too sure if that was a good thing or not.
Most of the characters had depth and the story wasn't too predictable (for a 12 year-old).
I recently tried to find my old copy, but I've lost it in the twenty-plus years.
This is a book my brother gave me when we were kids, and I found it recently on a bookshelf at my parents house.
I was looking for a totally fantastical fantasy story, so I decided to read it again.
I LOVE IT.
If you're looking for a book to read that takes you completely out of the current reality (and you love reading about Elves and Dragons and Dwarfs etc), read this.
I've been working on it as my bedtime reading for a month or so now, and more than once have I ended up staying up til 4 or 5 in the morning, not able to stop turning the pages.
Quite simply this is a MUST read for anybody who loves Fantasy novels and in particular Dungeons and Dragons.I have read this first trilogy so many times and it is just as good now as it was when I first read it. The characters are some of the most memorable of any I have read (my wife vetoed Raistlin as a name for my son). This is right up there with LOTR in the must reads category and I can't say much more than wuld add to this point...
When I was 13 and I read this, it blew me away. I loved every minute of it. Despite these fond memories, that does not prevent me from recognising that this was deeply formulaic fantasy trash that unashamedly revelled in rehashing all the well worn cliches of the genre. Hence my three star rating. My rating at the age of 13 would have been five stars. If I had read it for the first time now, I would probably have given it one star.
El retorno de los dragones me costó un poco al principio meterme en otro mundo de fantasia pero una vez conoces a los personajes me enganchó muhisimo. La tumba de Huma fue alucinante un 5 para él. El desenlace me dejó totalmente descolocada... que ayer despues de una noche d lectura todavia no habia asimilado... vamos que pasan cosas que no esperaba para nada y eso siempre es bienvenido.
Once you start with this magnificent Trilogy, you will want more and more! The epic novels by Weis and Hickman provide the readers with stories about friendship, love, war, and how different races struggle together for survival. I really recommend readers to start with the Chronicles and find out the great world behind its pages. Enjoy :)
It hasn't aged well. Far from as good as I thought in my younger days but still, here and there there are some noteworthy scenes. The scenes of loss are particularly well written, in my opinion. In the end 3 stars, in part because of nostalgia.
4.5Laurana is my book wife.
Dragons of Autumn Twilight, a classic work of high fantasy, marks the beginning of a remarkable 6-book tale (the CHRONICLES Trilogy, followed by the even more magnificent LEGENDS Trilogy), which greatly increased the interest in the Dungeons & Dragons game throughout the 1980's.
It certainly does contain more than a few stock fantasy elements (e.g. dragons, elves, dwarves, an unlikely group of friends somehow being chosen to stop the conquest of Evil...).
However, the straightforward, simple way in which the tale is told and, even more so, the distinct, "real" nature of most of its characters set it apart from the paperback fantasy pack.Another wonderful aspect of the trilogy is the title sequence: autumn twilight, winter night, spring dawning.
These were not just the first fantasy books I ever read.
But the first books ever.
These books gave me a love for writing and creating other worlds.
The one aspect of the novels that I didn't care for, and which I would try to avoid in my own writings is the reveal that what is going to take place has been fated and it is known by characters that the readers have no reason to believe they have omniscience.
Such as one character looking at another with sad eyes, because of their future demise.
Like many of the other reviewers of this series, my high ranking on it is based upon my reading it as a teenager.
I had read Tolkien at that point, and was fascinated by this trilogy.
Still, the characters hold a warm place in my heart, and I think the trilogy is substantially better than other derivative works in the genre.
If you've read others in the DragonLance series and and been put off, give these original three a try.
They're MUCH better than any of the multitude of story collections and spin-offs that followed.
DNF - I don't know why I didn't finish this book because what I had read so far was actually pretty good. I think it might have been that the book was huge and it felt like it was taking ages to get through a few pages and I have also been hit by a book slump from out of nowhere so that wouldn't have helped either. I will pick up this book again at some point and try to finish it.
For me this is where fantasy started, in grade school when a friend introduced me to these books. Before I ever got into LOTR and JRR Tolkien it was the Dragonlance Chronicles. Weiss and Hickman always take me back with such great memories of first discovering the world of fantasy in books. I will always be grateful for that.
What a fantastically written world to escape to as a teenager. These books will always have a special hold on my heart. The characters are very dynamic and their journey is in the wonderful, classical vein of Tolkien. I'm rereading them now and the nostalgia has not been dampened.
These are the books that started my addiction to fantasy novels. I have read them at least ten times and would read them again in a heartbeat.
This is the series that started me on Fantasy - well, that is... after Lord of the Rings (of course!!!)
This is my "Lord of the Rings."
That said there are some points in the books that are nice, like the battles, problem solving, good setting and characters.Dragons of Autumn Twilight: Book 1 starts with the classic gathering of the group at an inn, reveal of the quest (the search for the origin of a magic staff), then travelling and fighting enemies along the way, until they find their answers.
