https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/126675.The_Nine_Tailors
Campanology is the study of bells, of change-ringing specifically, which adheres to mathematically precise ways in which the bells are rung.In our story, it is New Year’s Eve and Fenchurch St. Paul’s is attempting to ring 15,840 Kent Treble Bob Majors to match an 1868 feat accomplished in a college church with only 8 men to ring the 8 bells.
A numerical sequence for bell changes also becomes part of a cryptogram that helps to solve a mystery that Lord Peter suspects is connected to the dead man.
Lots of hints, maybe, of the you-better-not-anger-the-bells variety (hide spoiler)]--but as murder mysteries go, I find it unsatisfactory.As a novel, however, it's a great read.
I love it because of the setting; the flat, watery fens (every time Wimsey's outside I can feel the damp wind whistling past my ears), the isolated little villages, the nexus of classic English village life--the pub, the church, the big house where many of the villagers work as servants, the blacksmith and the smallholders scratching a living from poorly-run farms.
I don't think any reader can quite look at church bells the same way again after this.
Not only can he solve mysteries like it's nobody's business, he's also a seasoned change ringer.
The only thing that worries me is whether I shall be able to get through the peal without making stupid mistakes.’What the congregation does not know when they ring in the new year, is that at the same time, a man died mysteriously in their midst.‘A corpse?
Not only did the mystery prove to be more than a straight-forward who-dunnit, there were also a few more insights into Lord Peter's and other characters war time experiences.
Let's say, if you're not interested in learning a lot of important information about the incredibly archane field of change-ringing, put the book down and back away slowly.
Then again, if you're not interested in learning something new when you read, you should probably just got watch COPS.Secondly, one of my favorite things about Nine Tailors was that there were really two crimes woven together expertly, which is like Mystery Novels 202, for sophomores, because the two incidents, 30 years apart, are both really critical to each other and inform each other.
Really, she's writing beyond mystery to an England she knows very well.But, well, there's a lot about bells.
The entire middle is very slow and has oodles of poems, rhyme, asides that use the names of the Nine Tailors (the nine huge bells in our fens' church's tower).The embedding within fen country of marsh and river and rather random isolation is a departure from the usual Lord Peter city and estate or country house party haunts.
Lord Peter, Bunter and the police components coming in and out have a long road to filling in the picture.
I believe I am past 1/2 way on the Lord Peter Wimsey list regardless as I've read Gaudy Night and a parcel of the latter ones.
I assume that a bell-ringer would go into spasms of delight while reading The Nine Tailors, because someone has finally written a book targeted right at them.
That said, the ratio of bell-ringer to average citizen is fairly low, and so if you are picking this book up as a civilian, either be prepared for many many many bells, or move on to another Sayers.
Maybe that one with the advertising agency, because I really liked that one.There's a mystery in here that's pretty solid, except I figured out who the killer was AGES before Wimsey did, and that's just disgraceful because almost everyone in that church should've been able to figure it out just based on their life experience.
With the village decimated by influenza, and a man short, he asks Wimsey to take part in a planned bell ringing marathon.While staying with the Reverend, Lord Peter hears of the death of Lady Thorpe and of the theft of an emerald necklace some years before, when Mrs Wilbraham was a guest at the wedding of Lady Thorpe and Sir Henry.
I think this is one of the most enjoyable Lord Peter Wimsey novels that I have read so far and I really enjoyed the Fenland setting and the bell ringing, which I knew virtually nothing about.
I'm having a terrible time writing this review.
OK -- yes, there's a mystery and it's an interesting mystery.
Yes, it's just as improbable as most of Sayers' other mysteries.
Yes, the writing is gorgeous.
Yes, it's literary and elliptical.
And in one way or another, everyone ends up serving the bells or indebted to them or punished by them -- although not worshiping them, I don't think Sayers was being idolatrous.
Sayers' used all the cliches and came up with something greater than the sum of the parts.
This is not my favourite Lord Peter mystery.There was a lot about bells, most of which went right over my head!
Other than that, it was a good read which could have been improved by not quite so much of the bell-ringing paraphernalia.
I like to learn about things, but here I think Sayers went a bit overboard.Lord Peter and Bunter find themselves marooned in a Fens village following a motor accident.
Rescued by the Rector, they learn of a mystery involving stolen Emeralds which piques Lord Peter's interest and sets him on the very convoluted trail of the thief.
1001 Books You Must Read Before You Die, in its infinite wisdom, has seen fit to make this book one of two Dorothy Sayers mysteries that you absolutely have to read or you are illiterate.
The thing I love about Dorothy Sayers, and the reason I now like her more than Agatha Christie, is because I always learn something from her novels.
It needs to be admitted here that, having finished the book, I still don't really understand all the bellringer shop-talk that goes on in the novel.
Also this is the first Sayers mystery I've read where the murder occurs after the book starts, which was cool.
One of my favourites of the Peter Wimsey books, though I have to say that this time I felt that there was something a bit off about the pacing.
And there's the way that when you realise how Deacon died, you do feel pity for him, even though he was a bad man, because it just seems so awful.No Harriet in this book, and as far as I remember, not even a mention thereof.
Ένα εξαιρετικο υπόδειγμα για όσους θέλουν να γράψουν για αλλα πράγματα χρησιμοποιώντας μια αστυνομική ιστορια . Πρεπει να το διαβάσουν για να δουν οτι οταν γράφουμε ενα αστυνομικό Βιβλίο στο κέντρο του βιβλίου πρέπει να βρίσκεται το έγκλημα. Έτσι λοιπόν σε αυτό το μικρό διαμάντι Εδώ έχουμε τη δυνατότητα να μάθουμε πάρα πολλά πράγματα για τις καμπάνες,για την τεχνική των κωδωνοκρουσιων, Για την αγγλική επαρχία για το περίεργο χιούμορ των εγγλέζων και πάνω απ'ολα Για τον φοβερό τρόπο που λειτουργο
Πρεπει να το διαβάσουν για να δουν οτι οταν γράφουμε ενα αστυνομικό Βιβλίο στο κέντρο του βιβλίου πρέπει να βρίσκεται το έγκλημα.
Έτσι λοιπόν σε αυτό το μικρό διαμάντι Εδώ έχουμε τη δυνατότητα να μάθουμε πάρα πολλά πράγματα για τις καμπάνες,για την τεχνική	των κωδωνοκρουσιων, Για την αγγλική επαρχία για το περίεργο χιούμορ των εγγλέζων και πάνω απ'ολα Για τον φοβερό τρόπο που λειτουργούν οι κοινότητες τους – τρόπος που τους βοηθήσει πάρα πολύ στο δεύτερο παγκόσμιο πόλεμο -Η συγγραφέας δε χάνει ποτέ το στόχο.
Δεν παύει ποτέ να λύνει το αίνιγμα το οποίο θέτει στο κέντρο της πλοκής.
Readathon2017:26/26 ενα βιβλιο με αριθμό στο τίτλο του
It is immaterial that this is a mystery. It is , I think, a great accomplishment in fiction.I love books that educate or impart archane info in support of atmosphere or the story and this is one of those. It had me searching for recordings of change ringing(it also helped me "get" Richard Thompson's "Time to Ring Some Changes", a small thing but there it is.Take it as read that I love and recommend all the Whimsey books and ,and yes,the boy is down with the hyper-romantic H. Vane series; which everyone should read.Says me!
I only have vague memories of his sermons during but I vividly remember walking to church on Sunday mornings to the sound of those bells ringing.I don't attend church these days, but I still listen out for the sound of church bells - and unfortunately, the churches nearest my place all use that pre-recorded junk piped out of tinny speakers.
None of them ring for anything other than keeping time.
This book is a blast, all nine bells going!
The writing is energetic and in command of the craft as if a showcase of bell ringing.
While a murder mystery, it is an exposition of English Church Bell ringing, chiming over the English Marshland (Fens) and the English society.
The book, written in the early thirties feels utterly modern.
The chapters also use leitmotivs from church bell ringing expositions.
While I read this book I felt strangely spellbound by it, transfixed by the unexpected modernity of the style and the fascinating (lost) times it describes.
Church bell ringing will not sound the same hereafter.
I picked this one up because the adult education group at my Church read it before its June meeting. I could not make the meeting, but decided that I would read it anyway. This is a classic English detective novel; it takes place in a small town in the country, the detective comes to town by chance and a dead body shows up (sort of), and we discover the dark secrets that are kept by the villagers. However, given that it was written by Sayers, I would say that there is more to this book than jus
I picked this one up because the adult education group at my Church read it before its June meeting.
I could not make the meeting, but decided that I would read it anyway.
However, given that it was written by Sayers, I would say that there is more to this book than just the mystery.
Overall, an entertaining read, and I wish I had been able to make the meeting.
As I am sure some other reviewers have noted, change ringing plays a role in the book.
It is more of an underlying setting, so knowledge of change ringing is not necessary to enjoy the book.
See, I thought it was a novel, and then I opened the book and it said, "Changes Rung on an Old Theme in Two Short Touches and Two Full Peals," so I thought .
So I read the first "short touch" thinking it was a short story and it was a very odd short story with lots about church bells and no mystery at all!It was only after I turned a few pages that I realized this was indeed a novel!Eventually, I did get more into it.
It was one of the better ones in terms of one book characters.
(I like being smarter than some characters, but not Peter!) And it's one where Sayers goes into more detail than is fully needed.
An engaging mystery set in Fenchurch St Paul.Wonderful characters and descriptions of the Church and the art of change ringing.Beautifully written in the Golden age of crime era.So of its time.An engrossing brilliant story.Will be looking out for more.A re- read for me!
Dorothy L Sayers' dramatisation with Ian Carmichael. Another interesting BBC dramatization.Free download available at Faded Page.
Perhaps a Dorothy Sayers was what I needed just now, but I'm not sure this was it.
For example, after a list of numbers, meaning the order in which the bells are to be rung is: Out of the hunt, middle, in and out at 5, right, middle, wrong, right, middle and into the hunt (4 times repeated).andOut of the hunt, wrong, right, middle, wrong, right, in and out at 5, wrong and into the hunt (4 times repeated.) I not only didn't have a clue what any of this meant, I didn't care.
I think it absolutely amazing that Sayers can provide such a good characterization of someone whose primary dialog is "Very good, my lord."This filled some waiting time, even in a somewhat noisy situation, and that is what I needed.

Absolutely inimitable.
A somewhat long and plodding first act, but wow, what a payoff.
As much literature as it is genre fiction.
Sayers is a master of the whodunnit, but at her very best, her novels encompass so much more than the whodunnit question.
In The Nine Tailors, she writes about the geography of the English fen-country and the history of churchbell-ringing nearly as capably as she does murder and sleuthing.
But unlike Gaudy Night, in which the backdrop drowned the mystery, The Nine Tailors never forgets #1.
She didn't write a grand "a-ha" moment into it, but the "a-ha" that happened in my own head just about knocked me over.
One of my five favorite mysteries set in England, and the cause for our touring the Fens and particularly Ely, and later King's Lynn and Norwich, on succeeding visits for a decade. Also an introduction to the Changes in English bell-ringing which we grew very familiar with in Whitchurch Canonicorum, Dorset, in '96. (The six bell repository of St Wlita there, old as Canterbury, but female and thought to cure eyes especially. Two of the six went back to 1603 and 1607.)
My favorite of her books so far.
What with the toffs fah-fahing: "...she was of the bulldog breed and had been brought up in the knowledge that a servant was a servant, and that to be afraid of a servant (one's own or anybody else's) was the first step to an Avernus of domestic inefficiency." (Very Downton Dowager Duchess!!) - and the locals ooh-aahring: "I was only a-dusting the room, 'm..." - Sayers has us well and truly immersed in the East Anglian countryside of the late 1920s!I'd heard great things about this book but I'm not overly fond of sleuthing as a form of detective novel so I didn't love it.
I enjoyed the writing, the banter between the characters, learning about the complex art of bell ringing, and the evocative portrayal of the East Anglian countryside - Fenchurch St Paul reminded me of Walpole St Peter, 'The Queen of the Marshland'.
The vicar of the nearby village – Fenchurch St Paul – offers him a bed for the night while his car is repaired and Wimsey finds himself part of a bell ringing marathon.
When a body is found in a newly dug grave it seems natural for Wimsey to be consulted especially as no one can identify the corpse and the police are baffled.The background is atmospheric and authentic with the Fens in all their beauty and majesty really brought to life in a way few other writers of fiction have achieved.
The church bells and change ringing play a large part in this story and add to the slightly supernatural atmosphere which pervades this excellent novel.
Read this in college for a Detective Fiction class and wanted to spork my eyes out by the time I was done.
Halfway through, my economics text (a class which I nearly failed, BTW, and was taught by an Alan Greenspan worshipper) was looking good in comparison.Like many books in high school and college, this book suffered from the Required Reading Syndrome.
I was gobbling up Livy, Suetonius, Plato, Homer, and Thucydides at the same time I read this, so "learning new stuff" isn't like the cooties for me.
Still gives me a headache.Probably the worst book I've ever read by a female author who looks like Franklin Roosevelt.
The mystery here is complex and interesting, and the book has plenty of Lord Peter doing terribly charming and wonderful things, which is always nice, but it is the atmospheric setting of East Anglia, used by Sayers to brilliant effect, that really made the book for me.
I nearly cried during the final climactic scene, it was that powerful.
I understand some people don't like that it has so much detail on the history of the bells and change-ringing, but I found it to be just the right amount and detail to be interesting, not tedious, and explained well enough to not be absolutely confusing.
To me, it added to the dark and brooding atmosphere of the book.
Well, I'm never going to look at bells the same way again.
:) This is, without doubt, the best detective story I've ever read.
Not only was it a brilliant mystery with lots of surprises, it was also a fascinating piece of literature in other ways.
I think the setting and characters added a lot to the story.
It was very well-written overall; and the detective actually seemed human!
:) There were also some interesting allusions to the author's Christianity (which I might not have picked up if it weren't for the introduction in my history/literature textbook - but still).
I highly recommend The Nine Tailors to all mystery lovers.
Library.Perhaps it was Christmas, perhaps it was my own busyness, but I thought Parts I and II dragged a bit. I kept checking page numbers; sighed that part of the mystery was - once again - who the corpse belonged to (I did figure it out before it was revealed); and was wondering about Sayers' story.Then, the mysteries unraveled and it turned beautiful. My friend pointed out a quote from early in the book that tied the whole thing together, "Where there is a church, there is civilization." So, after dragging, the final flourish makes me love it.
