https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/759506.Devoted_Ladies
What a horrible book. Evil lesbian, "nasty" appearing to be used to mean "homosexual" (as in, "Albert was a nasty boy"), casual racism. And even without all that it was a relentlessly unpleasant book.Three stars because it was so effectively, deliberately horrible. I was absorbed even as my brain made "bleh spit spit" faces.
It seems the story took a downward turn after my initial status update in which I called it awesome.Jessica and Jane are (sometimes-more-than) friends who have lived together for about six months.
Feel free to fix that.)Devoted Ladies was published under the pseudonym, MJ Farrell, which is why I chose this edition here instead of the glamorous Molly Keane reprint.
I try to use the the edition closest to the one I'm reading - if the people read it as a MJ Farrell novel, then by gosh, that's the edition I'm going to use on GR.Anyway, I hoped the story would hold my interest all the way through but it did not.
Devoted Ladies – is a darkly comic satire, some of the characters are quite unlikeable, although I really did love the ridiculously silly Jane and her dreadfully camp, deliciously vicious house boy/valet Albert.
It is also at this party that Jane first meets George Playfair, an Irish gentleman hunting type.
This hedonistic 1930’s world is wonderfully reproduced by Keane – it was quite a different setting for her books and was not where her readers at this time were used to finding themselves upon opening one of her novels.
Keane saw gays as a fresh cast of characters for a novel.
Here, she satirizes the upper, fox-hunting, class, skewering their idleness, their burgeoning or shabby wealth, but not all of her characters are laughable, not all of them hateful, not all of them gay.
Instead, she creates Piggy, poor Piggy, a woman whose history of romance is painfully empty, and who loves both Joan and George, in an eager, longing kind of way.
Keane does create characters to care about.
There is social cruelty among this group, some one-note, flat characters, but there is variety, there is kindness, there is dimension.
When I spotted a Virago copy of Devoted Ladies by M.J. Farrell in an Oxford charity shop, I knew precisely three things about M.
Her work was characterised by a sharpness of wit that was directed at the Anglo Irish landed gentry of which she was a member.About Devoted Ladies I knew next to nothing.
It’s apparently not Farrell/Keane’s best work (that seems to be considered Good Behaviour which was shortlisted for the Booker Prize in 1981) but it’s given me enough of a taste to read her other novels.
Looking at it like that, it sounds rather thin, and perhaps fitting of one of the Irish-set books George gives Jane to read whilst she's on her sick bed - classically soppy books mixing hunting and romance, with marvelous titles such as "The Girl Who Gave".
In London they are friends with playwright/author Sylvester, who puts himself out for no one, and George Playfair, awfully nice Irish rich guy who is a little bit besotted with Jane.The action then goes to Ireland where for various reasons they find themselves living with Hester and Viola - constantly referred to, even by herself, as 'Piggy'.
I heard about this book in a random article I found about gay women in "gothic" literature.
Not really what I'd consider a gothic book by any streach of the imagination, it was more Collette meets Cold Comfort Farm.
While there was no happy romance between the two girls I really enjoyed the tragedy of their relationship.
I loved how open the writing that they were in a relationship was.
The second half of the book was a bit slower than the first, but I think the end made up for it.
This takes place in rural Ireland in I think 1933. The author seems almost malicious towards her characters who are variously presented as evil, pathetic, manipulative or stupid. There's a fox-hunting scene, which I wish I understood better, and at the heart of the novel a portrayal of a very abusive lesbian relationship. As a description of a time and people --fading,alcoholic, upper class Anglo-Irish in the 1930's--it is somewhat interesting.
A viciously funny black comedy of manners, mainly set in Ireland. Nice little details involving antiques, dogs, horses, even plants.
A dark, enjoyable comedy, definitely worth reading!
It would have been more fitting if this book had been titled "Despicable Ladies" because Jessica and Jane, along with every other character in the novel, were the most unpleasant I've met in a long time.
The touted "humor" in the novel came from scenes like the one where 30-something Piggy (yes, she even referred to herself as The Piggy) gets pummeled on the behind by the boys as she peers into a badger hole.
Set in the '30s, the novel has the feel of the Roarin' '20's with drinking and sport occupying every waking moment.
I asked for a Molly Keane novel for Christmas, and my daughter gave me two.
Like PG Wodehouse, if Wodehouse wasn't funny...
At no point does Farrell effectively explore what brought these two women together or what holds Jane to Jessica.The action moves to the Anglo Irish circle in Ireland when Sylvester decides that the only way to finish his current writing project is to descend upon his two cousins Hester and Viola `Piggy’ Brown who live in a large house but in limited circumstances.
Jessica, Jane and George Playfair also travel to Ireland to stay with his married sister a friend of Piggy’s but really only when it suits her to be.
Not sure how I feel about this.
I thoroughly enjoyed it, but it's difficult to read a book in which it's hinted that a gay woman will find peace of soul within a hetro relationship.
HOWEVER, I'm not sure that this is what MK is hinting at.
In both books of hers that I've read she's laid into all her characters with equally sly digs and I don't think she's purposely having a go at Jessica here, simply portraying her as the abusive person she is.
Keane (who actually published under the pseudonym M.
J. Farrell) made some name for herself writing not entirely flattering portraits of the Anglo-Irish gentry of which she was a part (hence the pseudonym).
This one starts out somewhat differently from her others, centered on a lesbian couple in London (one a drunk, the other a psychological sadist) and a self-consciously bored homosexual playwright - a departure from her usual mise en scène until she promptly transplants them all to an Irish country house for the bulk of the book.A loose comparison to Evelyn Waugh is probably apt and the spitefully bitter, brittle or vapid dialog is consistently entertaining, though limits one's ability to build up a lot of sympathy for the characters before the quasi-tragic (or perhaps blackly comic) ending.
Simultaneously, characterization is...maybe the best word is glib.
The whole business, written and set in the early 30s, is glib in the stylized way that period often is.
The intro calls it an art deco novel; in several ways I can see that.
The foreshadowing was too apparent in some respects, but I still found it impossible to predict how the story would resolve up until the last few pages.
More to the point, the balance between predictability and unpredictability set up a particular level of disbelief.
1930's bright young things - drink too much, get over excited fox hunting in Ireland and generally have very strange conversations and behaviour. Excessive upper class twits being nasty to one another - very dated. Molly Keane making fun of herself and those around her in a privileged anglo-Irish past era has lost something over the years but, strangely, an ok read. If you put something forward as humour then a storyline where nothing much goes on and the denouement is terrible but which the writer thinks of as terribly funny then this is the book for you.
This was a real curiosity: despite being written in a brittle and often facetious style it takes on quite searching explorations of lesbian relationships in the unusual setting of the world of the Anglo-Irish gentry. Written in 1934 it must have been quite a shock to the readers of Molly Keane's earlier hunting romances. I thought the plot was handled well and there is a tense conclusion. There are some lyrical passages too - especially when the natural scenery is evoked.
Wow! Why wasn't this called Devoted Bitches? Talk about your Toxic relationships--woohoo. MOLLY KEANE must've known them inside and out. Oh there were times of extreme gentleness and authentic love, but other times I found the love a tad dangerous to their lovers ego. I know, Jessica had her bad moments, but who says Jane is innocent? My favorite characters were Sylvester and Hester, now that was a pair too. All I can say is I wish I could have read this without interruptions. Loved it!
Delightfully caustic examination of the things people do for love---and they are mostly not pretty things. Most certainly worth reading more of her oeuvre. Merciless character studies and an examination of the nature of "love". What bad choices people make! How determined they are that they are right. AN eviscerating book.
Surprisingly readable and engaging. The characters are very well written - none of them are nice people, but none of them are wholly unsympathetic either. The ending came out of left field what might be seen as a bit contrived, but I suppose that was part of the point, that there was no resolution possible without it.
Un libro scritto con la disillussione e la schiettezza degli anni '30, pregno di marche di prodotti dell'epoca per meglio farci sprofondare nel clima di quegli anni passati.Le ambientazioni sono divinamente descritte, peccato per i personaggi che si assomigliano tutti.Recensione: http://chelibroleggere.blogspot.it/20...
Not really my kind of book.
Great style and love-to-hate characters, but it didn't quite keep my interest enough for a 4 or 5 star rating! Maybe 3.5...
