https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/25051.Mrs_Piggle_Wiggle
Banned books:Are you there God, its me, MargaretHuckleberry FinnHeather has two MommiesWhy are people wasting their time on those well meaning books when Mrs. Piggle-Wiggle is still out there on shelves, unchallenged, messing with people's heads?!
I just reread it today, trying to vanquish my fears, and now I'm afraid to go to sleep.I will not go into details about The Radish Cure except to say that to this day the sight of mud on my skin freaks me out and I have a deep distrust of roots.Bring on The Satanic Verses, but keep that Mrs. Piggle-Wiggle away from me!
Having been disappointed by Betty MacDonald’s The Egg and I, I returned to the book I first read 50 years ago, the one that made me adore MacDonald: Mrs. Piggle-Wiggle.
The tales involving the tiny, eccentric widow with her upside-down house, dog Wag, cat Lightfoot, pony Spotty, delightful games, and amazing insight.Betty MacDonald’s slim book delighted me as much now in late middle age as it did when I was a young girl, laughing out loud at Mrs. Piggle-Wiggle’s “cures” for wayward children: the lazy, the slovenly, the lying, the selfish, the filthy, the insolent, the insomniac, the whiny.
Literally everyone should read this book.IT IS SO CUTE AND HILARIOUS. My mom read this to me countless times growing up and each time I reread I fall in love with the whimsical magic and hilarity all over again.
Mrs. Piggle-Wiggle was an eccentric lady that parents turned to when they became frustrated with their children's misbehavior.
Let the child do what they want until their behavior back-fired, then she would tell the parents to do some nasty little trick that sent the kids running to the sanctity of good behavior.
I always wondered what Dr. Benjamin Spock thought of Mrs. Piggle-Wiggle.P.S. My wife reminded me to state that I am pretty much reviewing the series of Mrs. Piggle wiggle books.
I can't vouch for the specific example I used being in this specific book.
I think she has a little Mrs. Piggle-Wiggle in her.
Read it aloud to the kids (8 and 4), they both loved it.
As a kid I thought this book was hilarious, as an adult I found that I kept pausing and looking meaningfully at my children, to see if they were paying attention to what happens to little boys and girls who quarrel or don't pick up their toys!
I love how full of details about life back in the 1950's these books are: the mothers are home all day, cleaning and cooking.
I found it got quite repetitive, and though my son was relishing each child's bad behavior, and was eagerly anticipating what form the cure would take, he still got a little impatient with the part of each chapter in which the mother (they are all indistinguishable from each other) calls all the other mothers that she knows for their (completely inadequate) advice, until one of them will say "Why not try calling Mrs. Piggle-Wiggle," and the mother says, "Oh yes, what a good idea!" By the end of the book, we were both yelling, "Just call Mrs. Piggle-Wiggle *first*, already!"But, as I said already, my son liked it, and that's really what matters.
I just read this book for the second time -- the last time was in 3rd grade!!
I re-read it for a challenge that had a "book from your childhood" category.
And now I remember why I enjoyed Mrs. Piggle-Wiggle so much!
She doesn't have any children of her own, but the neighborhood children love her and come to visit every day.
And all their mothers call her for cures for such childhood ailments as: "won't-pick-up-toys-itis"; "answer-backers disease"; and "never-want-to-go-to-bedders' syndrome." Mrs. Piggle-Wiggle has a cure for them all!
Just an adorable book, I'm so glad I read it again!
I remember reading this when I was little. A little cliche and silly ... but it was kind of amusing.
So I could hardly believe it a few years ago when my kids went mad, I mean bonkers, for Mrs. Piggle-Wiggle, a children's book character who is like the 1940s version of Willy Wonka.
Mrs. Piggle-Wiggle's calling is getting kids to do what they're supposed to do, using a combination of common sense and magic.
Or maybe they enjoyed hearing about the rotten kids getting their comeuppance?If you think you'd like to read Mrs. Piggle-Wiggle, start with the first book.
I remember adoring the Mrs. Piggle-Wiggle books when I was little, except for Mrs. Piggle-Wiggle's Farm because it didn't have any magical cures in it. I was surprised to find that this first book in the series didn't include them either. I didn't love it as much as I think I will love re-reading the next couple of books, but I still think the little stories are really fun. I love the old-fashioned feeling of these books. However, the radish cure story is the grossest thing ever and I had to cringe my way through it.
When standard child abuse is no longer effective to rid your little ones of their bad habits, it's Mrs. Piggle-Wiggle to the rescue! In stark contrast to the aggressive vitriol and lies employed by Mary Poppins, Mrs. Piggle-Wiggle has a friendly, unpolished exterior, which she uses to her advantage to get children to bend to her will through a variety of subtle tortures and passive-aggressive homespun remedies. The Radish Cure was particularly disturbing. One of the children mentioned in the book is named Paraphernalia.
Even better than I remember them. I love all the kids' utterly ridiculous names. The kid digs them too. Hopefully we can correct her with the Won't-Pick-Up-Her-Toys Cure.
You've got the radish cure for the little girl who refuses to bathe and whose parents plant radishes in the accumulating dirt on her skin one night, and the children who don't want to go to bed on time so the parents let them stay up as late as they want without saying a word until the children are so exhausted and crabby they beg to go to bed on time.The book is organized a little like the Mary Poppins books, but if I were to choose a favorite between the two, it would be Mrs. Piggle-Wiggle hands-down.
My girls loved this book! Very entertaining read aloud. My 6 year old said “I want to give it one hundred million stars. I love Mrs Piggle Wiggle so much!”
I loved these books as a kid and felt like re-reading something light this summer, so I checked this one out. These hold up and don't (gender roles!) at the same time. I really think some adult folks need to be sent to a Mrs. Piggle-Wiggle for a cure to their ailments :)
Wah beneran ada obat buat semua kenakalan anak 👍👍👌😄 Mrs Piggle Wiggle memang jenius.
- I wish Mrs. Piggle Wiggle were real, and that her cures for all sorts of behaviors really worked. It would be amazing!- I loved reading this as a kid. I remember wanting a neighbor like Mrs. Piggle Wiggle. It was still fun to read as an adult. I love books that you can read at any age.- My daughter read this by herself, and she enjoyed it. She thought it was really funny. I kinda wish we had read it together. It would be a fun book to read aloud.- I recommend this to everyone!
Here are some of their reviews:"It's a really good book to read to other people.""I think it was an awesome book when you read to us.
It’s 1947: the war has been won by the good guys, the depression was over, everyone was rich and had a big car, families were gigantic, no one was ethnic (at least in this part of town), and moms must have been worried sick about raising their kids the All American Right Way. In steps Mrs. Piggle-Wiggle with all sorts of amazing cures for selfishness, not going to bed, not picking up toys, not bathing (my favorite story in the whole bunch).
Voila - problem solved!
Until the Beatles, Vietnam, and the summer of love...
but that’s all the future.
Delightful! Fun to go back in time and remember my love of Mrs. Piggle-Wiggle.
First read Feb. 2016Re-Read Nov. 2016Re-Read Oct. 2018
The parents call Mrs. Piggle-Wiggle for help, and she prescribes some type of "cure" for it.That sounds sort of preachy and tiresome, but it's actually worse than that, because each of the "cures" is pretty awful.
They range from the frustrating ("The Answer-Backer Cure," with its loathsome parrot) to the cruel ("The Selfishness Cure" is basically an incitement for bullying) to the OMG THAT'S ACTUAL CHILD ABUSE ("The Slow-Eater-Tiny-Bite-Taker Cure" literally features Mrs. Piggle-Wiggle trying to stifle laughter at the sight of an emaciated child, who's been given progressively smaller and smaller meals for days, struggling to stay on the back of a horse).
Listened to the audio with my sons and loved it even more than I did as a child! I remember reading it when I was younger but couldn't remember many details. Well as an adult, the details are everything. It's a parenting book disguised as a children's book! Genius! Mrs. Piggle Wiggle is endearing and so clever. My boys loved it as well (ages 4 and 2) and it's adorable to hear them say Mrs. Piggle Wiggle.

No one ever claimed the Mrs. Piggle-Wiggle series was great literature, but it still is fun. Written in the mid 50's, at least the first book has aged better than I might have expected. It is not too dated to still be a great early chapter book and family read aloud. Kids will be kids, afterall, and Mrs. Piggle-Wiggle knows how to show them the errors of their ways.
Dear Mrs. Piggle-Wiggle, I never knew you when I was a child, but how happy I am to meet you as an adult. Thanks for being so lovely to kiddos--even when they misbehave. I am so happy to have met you at the local library, and will look forward to seeing you there again sometime and learning more delightful problem-solving tips from you. Your new friend, Ruth.
This book is world-class funny. This was a favorite with both my 4 and 6 year-old. The only con I’ve got is one of the reasons they liked it is hearing how naughty some of the kids were, and were very very verrrry tempted to repeat some not-so-polite things in the book. Overall though, the “cures” for the “illnesses” (disobediences) were powerfully funny and poignant.
Boo. The kids and I loved the first chapter, which describes Mrs. Piggle-Wiggle and talks all about how fun and amazing she is. She seemed like a grownup Pippi Longstocking! We couldn’t wait to read all about her adventures with the neighborhood kids. Boy, were we disappointed to discover that apparently all she does is fix minor behavioral issues in children. And she doesn’t even do it herself—she simply advises mothers. I’m uncertain as to the purpose of this book; for us it simply served to provide eye roll after eye roll.
The stories were cute and fun, but the vocabulary a bit difficult for my four year old. He didn’t find many parts amusing until I explained them. Will try to read the rest of the series when they are between 6 and 8.
I absolutely love this book, it’s so funny and I don’t know how anyone could turn such an amazing book down. This is for anyone who loves funny stories.
