https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/728765.Sea_and_Sardinia
After reading this well written, quotable, but uneventful travelogue by D.H. Lawrence, I find myself wondering why British people travel.
The Lawrences spend no more than 1 night in any city, so they never get to know any town.
Lawrence never explores why the people are cross dressing, but he does describe the meal in detail).The writing at times is amazing and the book provides a peek at an area of the world at a moment in time that is long gone.
The public transport is still underdeveloped; the people in general are still hospitable and genuine, even if often reserved and closed towards outsiders, which is refreshing after the typical Sicilian and South Italian false friendliness; finding decent accommodation for a reasonable price is still tough; as a tourist in Italy one still feels a little unwelcome, judged by nationality rather than personality, and like a chicken to be plucked for money; the food on the ferry is still awful; yet despite everything it's still a wonderful place to visit.Lawrence does come across as grumpy, but it's something I could relate to since travelling isn't always glamorous.
Timeless. Loved this book! I also had the pleasure of reading a very old copy from the library - worn leather, cut pages, deep musty smell of old books that transported me. What an amazing journey.
But while Tuscany and Sicily-- subjects of his two other travel in Italy books -- are well traversed by now and wealthier and much changed from when Lawrence visited, Sardinia remains off the beaten path and so mysterious and not often visited even in 2012.
Then, it was only a few years after the First World War, and people there were stil living peasant lives and wearing peasant cosutmes and following peasant cusotms going back centuries -- his description of a holiday in one town, almost entirely occupied by younger men in outrageous drag, is very good.
I am a great fan of Corsica, but I have never visited its close neighbour Sardinia, so it was with great interest that I lighted on D.H. Lawrence's account of his visit a few years after World War I.
I wasn't expecting a conventional travelogue, but in fact Lawrence and Frieda visited for only about three or four nights during January and saw very little of any interest while they were there.
And the soubriquet "queen bee" (or its abbreviation q-b) that he applies to Frieda grated after a while.So, while I learned something about Sardinia, I learned rather more about D.H. Lawrence.
I liked this book very much. Lawrence paints an extremely vivid picture of rural Italy on the eve of industrialization. You can almost see him with his backpack at the train stations, in a pensione, etc. A very natural manner of expression; conversational almost.
Not the most compelling narrative as far as travel writing goes. Lawrence's writing is fantastic, and he makes some very interesting observations about the people and politics of Sardinia. But he has a tendency to ramble and repeat himself quite a bit, which made it a very slow read.
En cambio cuando el autor escribe desde las entrañas cuando se apasiona por lo que explica es muy bueno.Siempre quise escribir un libro de viajes que en el fondo fuera una historia de amor.
Algo así como “era esto!!” resonaba dentro de mi mientras pasaba las páginas.A su vez mientras leía me daba cuenta que nunca lo escribiré porque ando muy lejos de la capacidad de descripción que demuestra el escritor en este Cerdeña y el mar.
To be fair I mostly read Golden Age Mysteries, so this book was not my preferred genre.
I saw a used soft cover version of it with a poetic cover illustration at a local tent-used-book-fair and really bought it judging it by its cover 😁, although by browsing through it quickly I became intrigued by its evocative place descriptions.
It stayed at my night table for months while I would picked it up when I was ‘between’ books or felt like dreaming of a distant beautiful place.
Finally bought it in kindle form to make it a more portable read since the paper book was pretty frayed and fragile.
4-Mentre leggevo, immaginavo Lawrence raccontare il suo viaggio in Sardegna - con le iperboli delle sue annotazioni - ad un gruppo di amici, mentre passeggia amabilmente.
I suoi aneddoti, le sue impressioni - anche viste attraverso la lente di chi si aspetta di ritrovare la purezza e la naturalità dell'umanità incontaminata dal progresso - vanno dall'estatico e incantato all'oltraggiato; l'ammirazione per certi luoghi o per gli abiti tipici ha come contrappunto quello della delusione nel ritrovare anche in quello che dovrebbe essere un popolo e luogo idealizzato la stessa umanità con gli stessi difetti.
H. ha idealizzato un luogo che in realtà già allora aveva molte più complessità; ma questo diario di viaggio mi ha divertito, con tutte le sue iperboli, con quell'apparenza da aneddoti da ascoltare divertiti durante una cena con gli amici.
It had been 20 years since I read DH Lawrence, having read all of his major novels and some of his poetry as an undergrad.
I had forgotten what a misogynist he was, but also what a brilliant writer.
This book was thus alternatingly infuriating and exhilarating.
His descriptions of the people were mostly just ridiculously offensive, a relic of Victorian British colonialist thinking, already somewhat passé at the time this was written; but his descriptions of the landscapes — oh, boy.
Vivid, painterly, indescribable.
Grudgingly awarding it four stars.
Lawrence is a complaining little English snot in much of it, which makes for the works brilliance.
Time and time again he faces up to his own reasons for being a jerk but does not disown his emotions, he holds on to his responses.
And then he is also able to see the bigger picture with the tiny petty details.
For example he is living in a nation collapsing to Fascism, the US and USSR are going isolationist, and Lawrence is aware, though naive about these things, but he also lets you know what the price of eggs or hotels are in Italy at that time.
Interesting historical insight into Sicily and Sardinia but Lawrence annoyed me with his attitude.
DHL sure likes to complain.
A beautifully written love letter to Italy.
A wonderful tableau of life abroad after WW1, and the inner life of Sardinia, a special island then as now a part of and apart from Italy
Una bella analisi della nostra Italia (Non solo della Sardegna) nei primi decenni del 900, non senza qualche giudizio di parte. Lettura piacevole da viaggio senza troppe pretese, a mio parere.
this book, the "story" (none) was difficult to engage in. I found his snide comments about his wife (and other sundry people around him) detracting and annoying. I felt that if I were to run into him on a cruise ship today I would hide in my cabin to avoid him. As a historical travelogue I would say it is adequate. I won't stray again from his novels ...
Although I have this edition, I have also a later edition, which is not listed - Olive Press 1989. This contains contemporary photographs. Read when I moved to Italy. Good to know what things were like, to some extent, in an earlier, inter-war period.
First published in 1923, when he and Frieda had been married for 9 years, the book is an account of their travels from Sicily to Sardinia.
Though it's never stated in any direct way, the reader is left with the impression that the marriage is a strange sort of equal partnership with Frieda accepting Lawrence's particular take on the battle of the sexes.
There is admiration as well as opprobrium and he clearly loves the characters they encounter, describing them in living terms that bring them out of the page to sit beside you as you read.I thoroughly enjoyed the language of the book; the idiosyncratic English style and use of metaphor and simile.
They are ordinary men no more: the human, happy Italian is most marvellously vanished.""I have a peculiar aversion to these ink-pots.
Alessandro caught ink-pots: and like this.
There she lived, like an Amphitrite's wire-haired terrier tied up, till Alessandro went a-fishing.
Then he towed her, like a poodle behind.
Now it has come, as it were, through the mincing machine of the ages, and oozed out baroque and sausagey, a bit like the horrible baldachins in St. Peter's at Rome.""One realizes, with horror, that the race of men is almost extinct in Europe.
Only Christ-like heroes and woman-worshipping Don Juans, and rabid equality-mongrels.
They stay in lots of draughty inns that have no milk, or cheese (a recurring motif, for some odd reason, which seemed to take on a comic intensity the more it was mentioned) and are staffed by uncooperative people with dirty shirts and fingernails.
The book has been described as a 'grumpy' travelogue, and it is, a bit, though I wouldn't let that put you off.I've not read much DHL.
Away from the inns and the transport, DHL goes into detail about the culture and people of Sardinia.
I brought it with me because the first few pages contained delightful and poetic prose.
So I thought, ok, it'll still be my train book, good thing it's not so interesting it calls to me from my backpack while I'm working...
And then about 20 pages later, I found myself hooked, so hooked that I had to make it my "main book" until I was done.
The thing is, I don't know if I've ever really read travel writing.
Or maybe it hasn't been good travel writing.
The central character is Lawrence himself—a cranky but deeply intelligent observer of people and place.
The book puts you right there—in an ancient bus lumbering through the bleak Sardinian countryside; at a fair in a small city where normal life has been cast aside for an ancient bacchanal; on a creaky boat with bad food, seasick as it makes a primeval crossing.
But just when I found his persona most insufferable, Lawrence points out that his annoying crankiness is merely one manifestation of the uniqueness that makes us human—the uniqueness literature tries to capture and the modern world is happy to destroy.
This book was first published in 1921 and describes a visit David Herbert and Frieda Lawrence made to the island of Sardinia while living in Italy (at Taormina in Sicily, at the foot of Mount Etna).
His descriptive writing is always excellent and this book makes an good introduction to his work for anyone put off his novels by his reputation (although I think most people nowadays realise it was undeserved).
His descriptions of the trip include some delightful tender moments of Freida's reactions, otherwise known as Queen-Bee, during the train and ferry journey to the island.
Oppressed by the winter in Sicily DHL and his wife (referred to throughout as the q-b) impulsively lock up their house and start out on a journey to somewhere they have never been before - Sardinia.
Throughout DHL paints the most incredible word picture of the places and people they encounter.
Such an incredible eye for detail and use of language.
Perhaps the most accessible DHL book I have read.
I bought this book to read on my own brief travels in Sardinia but found in it something much more than the usual travelogue.
This book is billed as a travelogue of a trip Lawrence and his wife took to the Italian island of Sardinia.
It's difficult to get into at first because Lawrence has a heavily sardonic tone and mixes languages that he doesn't always explain with many classical allusions that the reader may not be familiar with.
Lawrence's wry sense of humor helps the reader along, as in his constant referral to his wife as "q.b." or queen bee.
Perhaps if I was familiar with Italy and Sardinia, I might appreciate this book more but for now I can just say that I finished it.
Here are the questions we discussed at the Reading the Western Landscape Book Club at the Arboretum Library of the Los Angeles County Arboretum & Botanic Garden on April 27, 2016:(view spoiler)[• Is the book straight-forward? Why? Why not?• How is his writing in this book different from other authors you admire? • Who was your favorite character? Why? Who, not so much?• What was your favorite landscape description? What, not so much?• Was the landscape reminiscent of your understanding of ou
Here are the questions we discussed at the Reading the Western Landscape Book Club at the Arboretum Library of the Los Angeles County Arboretum & Botanic Garden on April 27, 2016:(view spoiler)[•	Is the book straight-forward?
Why not?•	How is his writing in this book different from other authors you admire?
•	Who was your favorite character?
Who, not so much?•	What was your favorite landscape description?
What, not so much?•	Was the landscape reminiscent of your understanding of our west coast landscape?
What was different?•	Could you understand the effect of WWI on the trip?
(hide spoiler)]
In particular, I liked the way he described those aspects of ordinary life typical of a Sardinia which I never knew (a Sardinia of the first years of XX century), but it's curious how certain things are still the same like generosity, spontaneity and also the snobbish behaviour typical of the people of Cagliari (I appreciated the fact that Lawrence mentioned both positive and negative aspects of his trip).
What I found intriguing was in particular the style, very intimate I would say, and I loved indeed the way he described the nature of Sardinia in all its forms.
repetition:a.
bitch about poor service and bad food (rocks of bread, wormy cabbage, gruel, etc)b.
everyone who so much as sets foot into the same train as the writer deserves at least three pages of exposition minimum about his or her appearance, dress, and manner of speaking, in addition to any conversations had with said writer which themselves constitute whole chapters on end (..not rly but it sure feels like it.)c.
italians hate britain because of the pound/lira exchange rate.
(they also hate the french, but this goes without saying.)d.
post-war anguishdespite complaints, an enjoyable book with beautiful descriptive passages and illumination of culture (italian v sardinian v sicilian), if a bit meandering and lacking in a narrative's propulsive drive.
