https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/37735.Deenie
Deenie would be an invaluable book for someone that age having to struggle with the diagnosis of scoliosis and wearing that life-changing brace for four years - it's inspirational, it feels real, and it's encouraging.
Deenie isn't perfect - Blume rarely writes characters who are - but the short hand she's dealt in life does have the positive purpose of transforming her outlook on other people who also have issues.
I was struck by the completely real, unedited voice of a twelve-year old teen that Blume gives us in Deenie, the protagonist of this compelling story.
When Deenie discovers her scoliosis and endures the ensuing doctor's visits and eventual casting and wearing of her back brace, Blume perfectly captures Deenie's emotions.
On a personal note, I was diagnosed with scoliosis at the same age as Deenie, and cast with a brace, and I could completely relate to every one of Deenie's reactions, from denial to anger to resistence and so on.
The way Mrs. Fenner tries to control Deenie, and her immature reaction to the scoliosis are both terrible.
And really, the only individuals who are seeing this as sexual and are wanting Deenie banned for this, are to and for me either reading something, seeing something in the novel that is not even there to begin with or have problematic sexual issues themselves so that they see anything that is remotely about someone touching themselves in some manner as inappropriate and sexually charged, which is at best really and problematically sad and depressing (not to mention that ANYONE who wants to ban and censor children's and yound adult books and remove them from libraries or classrooms is in my opinion at best a Fascist, a Stalinist, an entitled, undemocratic and dangerously dictatorial ignoramus, for even if Deenie did actually contain scenes of sexuality and gasp, masturbation, it should NOT ever be censored or banned).Now is Judy Blume's Deenie a perfect novel about challenges and special needs?
This was one of the first Judy Blume books I read as a child, and I laugh now at how I thought Deenie was so old and sophisticated next to how I felt...
However, I read this book over and over, because Judy Blume captures how teenagers think and feel, the awkwardness, the shyness, the way we are around our friends, and around boys!
She really got it, and this book has readers in a whole new place, somewhere that we didn't know about, a diagnoses of scoliosis.
I learned a lot of different things that people go through by reading Judy Blume books.
She was great that way.
I remember the brace I had to wear after my surgery and I hated it!
Mine actually did hurt because the most sensitive part of my spine stuck out a little and the brace dug into it roughly.
I also like that Deenie had to see many doctors, because I lost track for how many doctors I had to see to get diagnosed, to get measured for my brace, and to prepare for my surgery.Deenie is a quick, nice read that explores scoliosis and the thoughts of a young girl who has to wear a brace to fix her spine.
Picked this one up and read it in one evening sitting at the library -- it's a young adult novel that's under 200 pages.
This one was apparently banned for it's frank discussion of masturbation.
The topic only comes up by name once, and that in the context of girls' gym class discussion with their teacher.
The sad thing about people wanting to ban a book like this one is that it has many strong messages for teens, both girls and boys.
It's a great set of messages that all young people need to hear (and many of us adults, too).
This book is about a teenage girl named Deenie.
Deenie trys to hide it at first and tries her hardest to take it off but her boyfriend ends up finding out.
She gets invited to a party and tries to go behind her father's back and take her brace off but decides not to leaving a "Take me as I am or leave me." attitude with her boyfriend.
Her boyfriend ends up liking her as she is and she realizes that she had nothing to worry about.
It also let me step into the shoes of people with a brace and made me realize I have to be thankful for what I have.

Here's the first sentence:My mother named me Deenie because right before I was born she saw a movie about a beautiful girl named Wilmadeene, who everybody called Deenie for short.To my ear at least, that's a flat opening in a flat voice.
Both Deenie the girl, and Deenie the book, have very little spark.
Compare Deenie's opening to the first sentence of another Blume novel, Tiger Eyes:It is the morning of the funeral and I am tearing my room apart, trying to find the right kind of shoes to wear.Whose funeral?
So it passed that I until I took Young Adult Literature in grad school, I'd only read one book by Judy Blume: Are You There, God?
I muddled my way through Forever, although I confess I felt merely depressed by the book, being old and jaded and knowing that high school love isn't forever.Recently, all-new editions of Judy Blume's books were released, and I reordered a bunch of them.
I withdrew our old copy of Deenie, which looked like this:except our cover had faded so badly that everything was a uniform shade of pale sunflower gold.
Deenie, is an over all great book it really keeps you hooked and never gets boring.
I think that this book is so great because of the authors abiltiy to get the story and main idea across in an exiciting manner.
I never wanted to put the book down.
The book is amazing i think because it is not all drama and like they have no life outside of school.
This book gives you a better view of a real girl who has real life struggles, not just dramatic like the model that peole will think she is.
From the beginning this story had a great promise, I honestly thought this story was going to take a whole different turn.
Deenies mom was so obsessed with turning Deenie into a model that she dragged her to any and all auditions.
Deenie is only 13!!!
I could not believe Deenie had a spine condition, all the things she went through, I am glad that towards the end she came to terms with the back brace and did not have to hide from her father the fact that she was planning on taking it off while at a get together.
Just as good as I remembered.
And Deenie's character development, where she realises she can relate to people like old lady Murray and Barbara and Gena, although that was a little too preachy.
There's just a description of their conversation, and Deenie thinks "I felt like the world's biggest jerk".
Does she feel embarrassed that she can't do them herself, and that someone else has to do it for her like she's a little kid (something that I've heard a lot of preteens complaining about when they have to wear a brace)?
But there was nothing to indicate that she didn't feel like that about Barbara's offer to help.
No amount of exercise could correct it, there was only the horrid Milwaukee brace, but it’s large, painful, and covered her from neck to hips.
With her mother devastated and barely able to look at her, she was left on her own to discover if she could stand tall, confident, and beautiful in spite of her brace.
Once again, highlighting the true art of Judy Blume’s writing, and the ability she has capturing the essence of adolescence.
An unmistakable coming of age story by the all-time best-selling children’s author, Judy Blume.
Since the 1970’s, Judy Blume has been exploring controversial subjects such as; personal development, teenage sexuality and religion.
Deenie's mom has two daughters: the pretty one (Deenie) and the smart one (her older sister, Helen).
Helen has to get perfect grades but as long as Deenie doesn't fail, she doesn't get in trouble.)But there's more even than that.So Deenie has scoliosis and has to wear a brace.
Imagine having to be "the pretty one" and wearing a brace.(Also, for those keeping track of Judy Blume controversy, this is the masturbation book, and I love the fact that Deenie touches herself literally could not be less of a big deal.)Recommended.
this book is about a girl - Deenie - who had scoliosis.at the beginning of the book her mom wants her to be a model.
but when she goes to an appointment for a modeling agency, they tell her they don't like her posture.
she will never go anywhere with this brace.she didn't want to go to school after this weekend.
he said she had to go to school, with the brace.
so she ran to her room, and she cut her hair and couln't stop crying.Buddy was a guy she liked from the beginning of the book.
Grade: B+Deenie, a seventh grader, wants to be a cheerleader.
Her mom wants Deenie to be a model.
Now she has to wear s brace and her life is over, or so she believes.First published in 1973 when I was YA age, DEENIE felt fresh and new.
Deenie felt flat, as I would expect for a girl who doesn't want to model, is disappointed at nor making cheerleader and then diagnosed with a life altering condition.
Her mother and Aunt Rae were stereotypical stage mothers, though I loved her father and sister.DEENIE will appeal to any teen experiencing a medical problem that makes her feel different from her peers.
I was actually reading this book, in secret, right when my mother heard about it being "nasty" from some other PTA lady.
It was under my pillow, five feet away, when my mom asked me if I had ever read it, and ordered me to never touch it.
Deenie is going to be a model, or so her mother has always insisted.
She doesn't do anything particularly shocking, what she does do proves that she is both stronger and cleverer than anyone thought, including Deenie herself.(PS-What I believe the PTA lady and my mother were up in arms about is a bit of mild kissing followed by a boy feeling her up.
This is a book about a girl with scoliosis.
I'm a 23 year old girl who has scoliosis and was told I had to wear a brace at age 13 unfortunately for me, my curve was too bad for a brace and I had to have surgery.
I wish I knew about this book at 13.
The book portrays so well how people can treat you differently when you are different and the pain that it causes.
Every person should read this book and hopefully the knowledge of it will be out there for girls who are like me.
This was my first Judy Blume book.
I hadn't read any before and I know they were a big deal to a lot of people growing up and I wanted to know more about them.
I very much appreciated how frankly and transparently Blume deals with sensitive but relevant issues for adolescents and I understand how her books would have been important for younger readers.
It was an enjoyable story about dealing with set backs, parental expectations (and arguably abuse/neglect), physical issues, sexuality and maturity without really giving the impression of an after school special.
Damn you Reading Challenge. I will catch up, even if it means reading nothing but middle grade books for two weeks. And Judy Blume? This was not your best. Back braces and masturbation? I'm not quite sure what they have in common, if anything. And on the bright side, while I was bussing it to school today, I saw a transvestite (not transsexual) prostitute soliciting a man on crutches. Got to love Albuquerque.
This is another Judy Blume book from my childhood. I loved all things Judy Blume as a pre-teen and teenager, and think she is a wonderful writer for young girls. I am guessing that I read this book when I was around 12 years old, as I remember checking out many Judy Blume books from upper elementary school library when I was in the sixth grade.
I don't think I read enough Judy Blume as a preteen, so I'm trying to do some catching up. I thought Dennie was a pretty well written book for its audience. It made me recall the horrors and amusements of being 12ish, which I suppose is the point.
Such a nice throwback to girlhood reading. Blume never disappoints and manages to capture adolescence and girlhood insecurity so perfectly.
So passes the glory of the world, indeed.Deenie's mother really wants her to be a model, because she's always been pretty and even won a contest as a baby.
When Deenie tries out for the cheerleading squad and doesn't make it, her gym teacher calls home and mentions that Deenie really should see a doctor about her posture.
She has to wear Helen's old clothes, and is afraid that the boy on whom she has a crush, Bud, won't like her if she has on the brace.
Deenie's mother comes across as being an absolute nut, and Deenie's obsession with cheerleading and boys was very true to life.
This book was hardcore as fuck
While reading it with adult eyes, I don't think it is incredibly well written, (lots of holes in the plot and underdeveloped characters) I feel that most of Judy Blume's books geared toward girls of a certain age are still relevant and still important.
I guess you retain the things you care about at that time.
Deenie's relationship with her mother is a major plot line, but I recalled none of it.
The things I remembered most were the social and sexuality issues.
When I read it this time, my lightbulb moment came when Deenie complained about the brace causing tears in her clothes...
Deenie’s mother always had a dream of her daughter becoming a beautiful model.
This is heartbreaking news for Deenie’s mother and shatters her mother’s dreams.
Once Deenie starts to accept that she can never be a model she decides she wants to be orthopedist.
She makes this though choice because she wants to be able to good for other people and help the people that are in the same situation that she is in.
Though it was disappointing for her, she found a way to deal with the news and she turned it and made the situation positive.
