https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/913269.The_City_of_Tomorrow_and_Its_Planning
(93)Especially regarding Paris, I don't think he cares much for individual human beings:Paris is a dangerous magma of human beings gathered from every quarter by conquest, growth and immigration; she is the eternal gipsy encampment from all the world's great roads; Paris is the seat of a power and the home of a spirit which could enlighten the world; she digs and hacks through her undergrowth, and out of these evils she is tending towards an ordered system of straight lines and right angles; this reorganization is necessary to her vitality, health and permanence; this clearing process is indispensable to the expression of her spirit, which is fundamentally limpid and beautiful.
To save itself, every great city must rebuild its centre.WE MUST BUILD ON A CLEAR SITE.
Yet, if taken in an appropriate context, The City of Tomorrow and Its Planning reads like Machiavelli's The Art of War, where the diagrams of troop displacements are replaced by conceptual plans for future great cities.
In The Art of War, the diagrams are regarded as historical relics that do not take away from the serious ideas that Machiavelli presents on modern warfare.
One cannot deny that history has "forgotten" many of the solutions Le Corbusier once raised to the extent that technical solutions to our town planning problems today seem somehow new - even innovative.
"Generally speaking we are, in our passions, like wine in a barrel that is being transported from one place to another. We do not know at whose table we shall be served."
Of course don't actually tear down your city and build one of these.
An affront to tactful urban planning, dangerously presented as a full realization and finality of rational design.
The insufferable smugness, irrelevant pseudo-philosophy, and 37-page lionizing of the straight line as the "manifestation of liberty," are outrageous enough on their own, though they pale in sheer imperiousness to his militant arrogance that his own subjective views on urbanity and architecture are not only correct, but championed by logic.
Le Corbusier's ideas are normative in the worst way: prescribed notions on how entire populations should live, all while entirely neglecting their actual needs.
While his intentions may well have been pure, his ideas as practiced by subsequent followers wreaked unmitigated havoc on built environments, alienating and dehumanizing millions.
If you want to know what is wrong with a lot of cities today, just read this seminal work by the Swiss architect, Le Corbusier.
Beinning in the 1920s, he championed completely rebuilding cities in order to separate cars from people, working places from residential space.
At one point he proposed tearing down the centre of Paris, and rejigging it so that everyone lived in high apartment towers set in greenspaces.His sketches of utopia are very pretty, and influenced a couple of generations of architects and urban planners.
Luckily, his plans for Paris were never carried out.
LC was craaazy, but I like it (although to actually live in his city would be a terrifying thing). Read in a rush for class. Will pore over more carefully later. (Wishful thinking.)
Interesting position on Urban Planning. Very socialist- imposition of a specific commonality and order in a city in order to create cleanliness, health, and social order. Follows the philosophy of environmental determinism.
One of the first and still the greatest books about urban planning, Le Corbusier outdoes all of his companions in his deep conception of a modern city. This book is a great reference for all architects and planners.
Research for the novel. This guy is crazy. The best professional manifesto you'll ever read by someone who hoped he'd get jobs later...A real pleasure.
thought it was okay, but was quite suspicious of it's poetic rhetoric with no real data to back anything up.
