https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/898737.The_Clicking_of_Cuthbert
*”P.G. Wodehouse, who was an avid Golfer himself, thus describes the devotion for the sport felt by one of the characters from a story, which appear in this anthology of ten short stories, all written with a golfing theme.
‘The Clicking of Cuthbert’, published in 1922, is the first book in the ‘golf series’, which presents the reader with humorous tales pivoting around golfers and golfing adventures.Each of these golf stories are narrated by a central character named ‘Oldest Member’ – just like Mr. Mulliner from the Mulliner stories series – who over drinks, either at the smoking room or terrace of an unnamed golf club house, shares the anecdotes about golfers to the fellow club members as inspiration.
These pretend to be golf stories, but they aren't. They're the same old delightful Wodehouse: the right sort of young man is pining for a girl, difficulties ensue, he gets the girl anyway. And there's a lot of golf club paraphernalia lying about, and golf games of great importance in settling the matter. Most of it, to be honest, is told in rather out of date slang on golf, which makes the whole experience less realistic and more magical, like fairy tales.Fun stuff
However I was mistaken to be suspicious, these stories mixing the trials and tribulations of golf with the golfer’s attempts to succeed in love or other worthwhile pursuits really are a triumph.The Oldest Member of the club sums up all aspects of golf in the most wonderful language , such as the following description of weekend golfers ‘Like all Saturday foursomes, it is in difficulties.
Whilst my peers go out for eighteen holes I hole up with the Oldest Member on the terrace of the Mavis Bay golf links and laugh at them.
Like the Oldest Member I’m not averse to putting myself on the outside of a cup of Tea and a slice of Cake.
Ten stories, all with the common theme of golf and its tortures.
Amusing but not particularly laugh out loud funny.
Some great turns of phrase and wonderful images but I have noticed one constant.
This is the second volume of his short stories that i have read and though i am always aware of which character I am supposed to like, I almost inevitably find them annoying and self-obsessed.
In this volume, which is largely tongue-in-cheek, perhaps that is not a real problem but i carry the horrible suspicion that i am going to loathe all his heroes and feel sorry for all his villains.
"Their friendship ripened rapidly, as friendships do in the South of France.
As she drew near the table she said to the baby:'Chickety wicketty wicketty wipsey pop!'In other respects her intelligence appeared to be above ordinary.""Their house was not far from the links; Eunice was not engaged to be married; and the aunt made a hobby of collecting dry seaweed, which she dried and pasted in an album.
What I know about golf - nil.What I thought about the sport in general - Boring.What the central theme of the stories in this book was - Golf.And yet here I am rating a book about golf as magnificent, which just goes to show the genius of Wodehouse. All the stories in this book had me in splits. Don't worry if you find golf to be the most boring sport ever invented, because this book will still be funny.
Also free on Project Gutenberg.And granted, I did start reading Wodehouse with Wodehouse's first book of short stories -- so maybe the progression makes sense -- but this book was all about golf, and I hate golf, and this was still the best Wodehouse I've read yet.Freaking hilarious.
Ten short stories about how golf can help men marry beautiful girls, or alternatively, escape from girls who hate golf.
You don’t have to a golfer to love this book, but it helps.
My copy of the book The Clicking of Cuthbert has a short commentary from Stephen Fry, which goes like this -- "You don't analyse such sunlit perfection, you just bask in its warmth and glory." I could not have said it any better.
The Clicking of Cuthbert has ten short stories revolving around the game of golf, most of them narrated by a fellow known as the Oldest Member who treats golf as one of the greatest religions known to man.
The same holds true for The Clicking of Cuthbert, which is one of his best works that I have read, though again I repeat, we cannot and probably should not judge Wodehouse.

Beautiful, light and sunny. Wodehouse's golf stories are perfect for any occasion. Might consider taking up golf now.
The title character is one such, a mental nonentity who joins the Wood Hills Literary Society for the sake of a girl he loved at first sight ever since he dropped in unexpectedly on a literary gathering after a nasty slice of his nearly caused him to decapitate an emerging novelist.As a minus quantity in the brains department, he finds the rigors of the life literary to be a tough slog, and never more so than when reading the works of Vladimir Brusiloff.
This is the first P.G. Wodehouse book I've read, and I have to believe I'm missing something.
It's as if Wodehouse had brainstormed a list of possible premises for a comedy sketch about-- in the case of this collection-- golf and romance, and then simply wrote the first story that came to mind around each of them.By which, as usual, I don't mean to say that it's badly done.
Given the general high esteem for Wodehouse I have to assume I'm missing something here.
Wodehouse's humor-- which seems to be mostly based on exaggeration and caricature-- sometimes hit for me and sometimes missed.
Whether or not you read the rest of the book hunt down and read this public domain story.
Sadly the other stories in this collection can't live up to this story.
In close proximity with lesser characters, it just becomes too obvious.The better stories in this collection feature golf a bit more on the periphery, while those that give hole by hole accounts can drag even though some of the descriptive work of a summer day on the course is mid-form Wodehouse.
This is a collection to read after you've read the great sagas and want a change of pace or unexplored Wodehouse.
While not quite of the caliber of a Jeeves and Wooster, this collection of stories about golf are a pure delight.
Anyone looking for a light read, and, of course, any Wodehouse fan, will find nothing but mirth here.Lighthearted romances abound as the Oldest Member consoles and counsels a young generation of golfers.
Throughout the tales, Wodehouse points out the follies of both love and golf—and the terrible calamities that exist when they collide.
I loved the title story, which makes fun of pompous literary types.
The first story, from which this volume derives its title, is one of the greats. The others are pretty fun, and all the golf lingo is amusing even if you don't understand it all, but they aren't of quite the same caliber as Cuthbert.One of my all-time favorite lines: "It is too much to say that there was a dead silence. There could never be that in any room in which Vladimir Brusiloff was eating cake."
I can't abide golf, but PGW was on good form when he wrote these; I laughed out loud several times. My only cavil was that the plotlines of some stories were a little repetitious, but, hey, you don't read Wodehouse for the plot."Well, the natives seemed fairly friendly, so I decided to stay the night."I made a mental note never to seem fairly friendly to an explorer. If you do, he always decides to stay the night.
Collection of short stories, all related to golf in some way. Not quite as laugh out loud rousing as most wodehouse I have read, but still entertaining and funny enough. Relies a decent amount on knowledge of the game, not so much for plot but for appreciating some of the wordplay and exaggeration. Almost all of the stories revolve around some man and woman either in love or trying to be, and how golf either ruined/saved/set in motion their relationship.
The Oldest Member no longer plays golf, but sits on the terrace of the golf club and watches others play. Younger players come to him for advice and he tells them stories of golfers and romance. Funny, but if I was a golfer and understood anything at all about the game I probably would have thought it even funnier.
As a non-golfer I was wary of trying Wodehouse's golfing stories. I tried 'The Clicking of Cuthbert' and was won over! You don't need to be a golfer to enjoy this book, you need to be a Wodehouse fan and have a modicum of knowledge about how golf works. "The Long Hole" is wonderful, I thoroughly recommend this book.
It's a good 3.5 stars.As I have no connection or interest in golf a lot of this book was gibberish to me. But the amazing ability of Wodehouse is to make this funny and entertaining.The book is early 20th century and some of his statements feel a bit odd these days but somehow he manages to present chauvinistic statements in a way that it seems he's actually making fun of them.
Great. Not as good as the Wooster and Jeeves novels, but still funny. Listened to this as an audiobook from Librivox, and it was well narrated. Recommended to me by the Wodehouse connoisseur himself, Seth Nelson! :-)
Though I have never played or watched golf, I loved the sublime humour and the devotion shown by Wodehouse towards golf. Each of the 10 short stories is equally brilliant and witty.Absolutely hilarious and delightful read. You don't need to know golf to enjoy this book.
The Americans are simply not as charming as the English characters. Lost interest quickly, especially because I don't play or follow golf. One witty self-commendation at the beginning was a nice touch.
Quietly amusing break from life’s madness. A simple narrative, but P G Wodehouse. My copy suffers fromgenuinely dreadful illustrations...
This one was faintly humorous, not up to the standard of the Jeeves and Wooster stories. Perhaps my lack of interest in golf interfered with my enjoyment.
A collection of golf-related short stories. Some of them were very funny, others unexceptional, but overall a charming read.
This was MUCH more fun than a book about golf (a sport I have never played and have no interest in) really has any right to be! Wodehouse is a prose genius that keeps everything light and delightful.
