https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/548146.Love_for_Lydia
5★A glorious, slowly evolving story told by a young man about his dull, drab industrial village of leather tanneries and the changes to his life when he meets Lydia Aspen.
Richardson, a reluctant newspaper reporter, is summonsed to the house by the aunts and asked to provide some companionship for their young charge.
Lydia is lovely but awkward, and the two young people come to know each other, bonding over ice skating, dancing and walks.
opulence and amplitude and calm loveliness spread with lushness everywhere about long lawns broken by cedar-shade pools of intense blackness.”And that pretty much describes Lydia as well.
E. Bates (in 1974), several of his books were adapted for television, bringing renewed interest in the work of this extremely prolific English writer.
One such adaptation was the 1977 Masterpiece Theatre production of Love for Lydia, starring a young Jeremy Irons, based on the author’s 1952 autobiographical novel.
Love for Lydia is set in the 1930s, in Evensford, a middling town whose economy relies mostly on tanneries and shoe factories.
The book is told in the first person by Edward Richardson, who first encounters the enigmatic Lydia Aspen while working as a reporter for the town’s struggling newspaper.
Then she inherits a great deal of money and begins to realize that she is a very desirable catch -- and that men will let her get away with almost anything!The one man who truly loves Lydia is Richardson, a would-be writer from a rather poor and humble local family.
Lydia changes from a shy schoolgirl to a glamorous and sexy siren.But in her quiet moments you can see her basic insecurity, like the way she lies on the bed listening to the same jazz love song over and over.
As winter comes to Evensford, a local newspaper reporter meets a shy heiress. http://www.bbc.co.uk/programmes/b00czgtq
You know how Fitzgerald's writing sounds like neon lights and champagne jazz? Transpose that to the English countryside with pops of flowers and you have H.E. Bates.Thank you to Bloomsbury and Netgalley for the review copy!
After planning to read this book for decades, I finally got to it. It's so beautifully told and completely put me in another place and time. The young narrator Richardson expresses the pain and beauty of love, loss, and growing up in such an eloquent and moving manner. This one will go down as a favorite, and is worthy of a re-read. I loved it.
E. Bates  Review from Jeannie Zelos book reviewsGenre:  Literary Fiction, General Fiction (Adult) I’m an avid reader, always have been and occasionally I feel pangs of conscience for not having read a “classic” book, one it seems everyone has read and loved.This book is one of those, I thought it was time to extend my reading, try something different.
I really didn’t know why the men fell in love with her.
I found it hard to really like any of the characters, I never really felt I understood them, didn’t know them enough to care about what they went through.
As winter comes to Evensford, a local newspaper reporter meets a shy heiress. Stars Tim Pigott-Smith and Juliet Aubrey.Broadcast on:BBC Radio 7, 11:00am Monday 11th January 2010---Somewhere in my dim and distant past I must have read this as so much is familiar, including a sense of 'Yeah! Whatev'. That 'Yeah! Whatev' factor is still hanging about this mediocre tale this time around too. I've ditched after Alex's drowning.
This has to be one of the best books I have read in a long time, or possibly ever. It is completely beautiful, showcasing the highs and lows of young people in love. Bates' intricate descriptions of surroundings and of inner thoughts reflect the genius of Austen herself. A perfect read for the hopeless romantics, the reader will feel the pure joy as well as the pain of Edward and his experiences in growing up.
The winter that begins the story is romantic, idealistic and sparkling, contrasting the long hot summer that ensues or the winter at the end of the novel, which portrays the town as cold and vacant, resembling the mental state of Richardson and Lydia.Bates pays each and every character the full attention they deserve and when you read of them, it is easy to feel a familiarity that you've met before an unsavoury plum-awful Rollo or a flower adoring dumpling Bertie, a kind and timid blonde-haired Tom and our steadfast charismatic old-soul narrator, Richardson.
And at first Lydia, who has been cocooned so carefully that she has no social graces nor any real wardrobe, futzing around in clothing that looks suspiciously like that of her elderly aunts, really needs a trustworthy young mentor close to her own age.
He endears himself to the aunt that gives her attention to the landscaping, commenting on the traits of flowers and making suggestions that create an instant bond between young man and old lady, but Richards is unprepared for what awaits him.The aunts want him to meet Lydia, and they wonder whether he might take her skating on the lake.
It is the story of young people growing up, the thrill and torment of first love, the end of a way of life, and class stricture.
It is the story of what happens when four young men fall for Lydia and how she handles their adulation.
It is a love story to England's pastoral beauty.The novel begins in 1929 when Richardson is nineteen and a reporter for the town paper.
'Don't ever stop loving me-'...'Even if I'm bad to you--would you?--will you always?''Yes,' I said.The aunts press the young people to attend dances and Lydia's social network expands.
The narrator, a Mr Richardson, in the first flush of adulthood, finds that his love of the countryside is soon surpassed by an ever-growing affection for Lydia, the youngest member of a local aristocratic family.
The newly industrialised Evensford is cramped and grimy; the jobs on offer are uninspiring; and the shy and ungainly Lydia is enigmatic, nested in a family estate on the cusp of decline, surrounded by aged aunts.As the story progresses, with the delights of ice skating and dancing providing regular distractions, the reader soon discovers that the fast maturing Lydia is courting a path that threatens destruction for herself and all who are drawn into her world.
When Lydia Aspen is sent into the care of her reclusive aunts in the “big house” in rural Evensford, they are concerned to ensure that she isn’t isolated from other young people and ask a local newspaper reporter to look after her and take her out and about.
Set just after WWI, young people are challenging the established order and the boundaries between the social classes are gradually being eroded.
There’s tragedy here, but also gentleness and generosity, and all in all it’s a delightful book, one which has stood well the test of time.
I'm still not sure how I felt about this book.
I'm glad I read it.
I like books that make me think and feel strongly.Pros..
I didn't have any love for Lydia as a character and felt so sorry for all the people in the story who were unfortunate enough to.
The new cover made me think it would be a happy book and I found it utterly depressing.
Real and depressing which life can be sometimes I guess.I'm glad I read it but not sure I would suggest it to friends.
I really enjoyed this book.
The best part of the book for me was the main character, Richardson.
I love when a character is fully developed and we see the good and the bad, and we find both in Richardson as he deals with his love for Lydia.The book gives a great look into the lives of young people trying to find their way in the world, dealing with first loves and loves lost.
It shows these characters growing up and maturing into people capable of real love and understanding.
I loved it and would highly recommend it.
Though the tale of obsessive love for an almost hypnotically enchanting young woman certainly struck a common chord with me, the writing was so utterly mediocre I could never quite get engaged in the narrative.
A good story, just not a very good book.Most of the books I've read in this series (Marshall Cavendish's Great Writers Library)have either been superb or have been a torture to read.
This was neither; it was simply too bland to love or hate.
I can only assume Love For Lydia's a book better-known in the UK than anywhere else, hence its inclusion in this Great Writers series.
Picture of the actress on the cover of the book reminds me of part of why I used to watch the series (you figure it out), so I was able to visualise her as I read the book and it translated to an enjoyable experience.You might think that this should be a review of the book rather than a review of me (and we may well differ in that respect), but to assuage your misgivings: it's a nice little story, well written, with a satisfying ending.
Another 'underdog' story of the kind that I love.
Love for Lydia by H.E. Bates is a free NetGalley ebook re-release of a book originally written in 1952 that I read in early May.Not knowing that this is a classic book, I went into this book blindly, which seemed to make me all the more sensitive to its harsh, plosive syllable prose and almost Gatsby & Daisy dysfunctional, give & take dialogue. Classic though it may be, it wasn't a driving story to me, nor very interesting.
Love for Lydia is a story narrated by Mr. Richardson who is one of Lydia's love interest. Lydia Aspen arrives in Evensford an insecure young girl and develops into a seductive young woman where the men in her life adore her. She starts to realize the effect she has on certain men and uses it to her advantage. In the end all she wants is to be loved and life can be cruel at times with the hand it deals you. Mr. Richardson tells you how she affected his life and others around her. A good read.
Love for Lydia was first published in 1952 and it is still an extremely poignant novel. This is by far one of the greatest love stories of the twentieth century. It is a beautifully written, classic love story. The prose is exquisite and the descriptions of the outdoors and countryside scenery are a delight. I’m very glad a gave this novel a chance. A timeless, steamy love story that I highly recommend.
Lots of good prose with a plethora of flowers, shrubs, youthful angst, and soap opera simplicity, but keeps you reading until the last few pages where an interesting nineteenth century sensibility meets Hollywood ending. These two main young characters seem to have expended a lifetime in a few years, then set off together for what can only be imagined as mismatched misery except by the most Pollyanish reader.
There was some song I loved that was apparently inspired by this, or it was the author's favourite book, or something? I have no idea anymore! But anyway, I was 14 and decided to read the book. Maybe it was a bit old for me, but I did still quite enjoy it and managed to finish it.(ETA: Oh wow, I found the song!)
Exquisite writing. This was the first H. E. Bates book I've ever read despite my preference for English literature. It was a gross oversight on my part. Bates' characters are fully realized and indelibly drawn. His love of the natural world brings great richness to the writing. In my way of looking at things he is the heir to Thomas Hardy. Can't wait to read another Bates novel.
This is probably my favourite all time book. I've re-read it many times. I love the descriptions of love and winter and of great beauty in a small town. Still do not actually own a copy as lent mine out and never got it back. A stunning tale of great charisma in a small town pre-internet, and of great sorrows and loss as well as true love and loyalty.
Beautifully written classic. It's nice to see a novel like this reissued. The story remains timeless. Lydia is engaging, the descriptions of the countryside are lovely, and the plot has enough zing to keep you reading. Try this one if you enjoy British novels set between the wars. THanks to Netgalley for the ARC.
Thanks to Netgalley for the copy of this book in return for a review.I have been wanting to read some classics for quite a while and jumped at the chance of reading this. The language is old fashioned and some of the descriptions are long winded but it is a true classic.
One of Bates' best-loved and most enduring books, "Love for Lydia" is an extraordinary tale of love and longing, set against the backdrop of 1920s decadence, and the fall of the English upper classes.
A slow moving story about a group of young people from different backgrounds who come together for a brief period in their lives, and the tragedy that follows in their wake. The story ends with a quiet coming home.
I loved it! so lyrically written, utterly beautiful and enchanting. sad and sweet all told with the most beautiful of natural backgrounds. I feel bereft without the characters. hated finishing it and tonight feel sad.
