https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/95819.The_Poetry_of_Robert_Frost
Some say the world will end in fire,Some say in ice.From what I've tasted of desireI hold with those who favor fire.But if it had to perish twice,I think I know enough of hateTo say that for destruction iceIs also greatAnd would suffice. Robert Frost was a genius.
It's not that I have a favourite Robert Frost poem -- he's not that kind of fellow.
Yes, there are many "quotable quotes" that people bandy about; but again, he's not that kind of fellow.
I dip into this collection again and again, when I want the world to slow down a little, and I just want to dream away a few hours, an afternoon.
This is a well-thumbed, well-loved collection.
These reviews will primarily be comprised of quotations of some of the poems I enjoyed most, with perhaps some additional comments.(1) A Boy's Will, 1913 - review(2) North of Boston, 1914 - review(3) Mountain Interval, 1916 - review(4) New Hampshire, 1924 - (5) West-Running Brook, 1929(6) A Further Range, 1936(7) A Witness Tree, 1942(8) Steeple Bush, 1947(9) In the Clearing, 1962The book also contains two plays Frost wrote:(10) A Masque of Reason, 1945(11) A Masque of Mercy, 1947Finally (not in the book), I've reviewed the following:Robert Frost: A Collection of Critical Essays, edited by James M.
.Previous review: Basil Street BluesNext review: North of BostonOlder review: Understanding PowerPrevious library review: Robert Frost critical reviewsNext library review: A Boy's Will see above
There is something unnerving about that connection for me, perhaps just the sense of how long Frost's adult life was since he was also performing at the inauguration (view spoiler)[ there's a lovely Roman word carrying the ideology of an alien world into modern times (hide spoiler)] of J.F. Kennedy.I recall a verse about almost being carried off by an eagle as a child which has then that reoccurring theme in poetry of the writer's self identity as poet, but also their own place in their culture.
Robert Frost wrote some stunning and thought provoking poems. Almost everyone has heard of "Stopping by the Woods on a Snowy Evening" or "The Road Not Taken", but one of my all time favorites is "Desert Places". The last verse:"They cannot scare me with their empty spacesBetween stars--on stars where no human race is.I have it in me so much nearer homeTo scare myself with my own desert places."
Lovely poems! Frost isn't a "favorite" poet of mine, but he's definitely memorable and brilliant.
I think it's this version I have an old copy of this book. My grandma gave it to me for Christmas many years ago. I love Robert Frost. He's my first favorite poet and my favorite poem will always be The Road Not Taken. "And I, I took the road less traveled by and that has made all the difference." RF is my reason for loving words I think.
The leaves are all dead on the ground,  Save those that the oak is keeping To ravel them one by one  And let them go scraping and creeping 10 Out over the crusted snow,  When others are sleeping.
And the dead leaves lie huddled and still,  No longer blown hither and thither; The last lone aster is gone; 15  The flowers of the witch-hazel wither; The heart is still aching to seek,  But the feet question ‘Whither?’ Ah, when to the heart of man  Was it ever less than a treason 20 To go with the drift of things,  To yield with a grace to reason, And bow and accept the end  Of a love or a season?
Oh, if there were only the words to express how I feel about Frost.
There aren't the right words nor near enough.
However, I do enjoy reading his poems.
I am usually a lover of short poems, yet, even in his longer poems a line or two will reverberate.Most will recommend "Stopping By Woods on a Snowy Evening", "The Road Not Taken" or "Nothing Gold Can Stay".
There are reasons why they would recommend these poems, as they have merit.
Yet, these are not the only poems worth their keep.
I recommend reading "Reluctance", "Into My Own", "Tree At My Window", "Wild Grapes" and "Devotion".
from "Wild Grapes"
Yay, I did manage to finish it this weekend.
=) Okay fine, I didn't 100% finish it.
I skipped those two 20 page poems that were like about bible people??
But it does count as "read" ok, IT COUNTS.
I read 95% of it, hell yes it counts.
Overall I fucking hated the poems that were like 13 pages long.
But the shorter poems were really beautiful, but THE LONG ONES JUST KIND OF RUINED MY EXPERIENCE A BIT.
But also the short ones were nice and pretty and well done, so I have sort of kind of maybe mixed feelings.
The First incarnation a small enthusiastic and expressive child awe struck by the simple beauty of the landscape and changing seasons as he passes them by yearning to run ahead and spy what lay beyond the next bend.The Second, a wiser and well traveled grandfatherly type, Who knows better than to openly advise against taking the short cut,though in a round about way counsels against the idea; lest we miss the point of the taking the back roads in the first place.(If the above was confusing I apologize.
I find Its like trying to explain why water tastes good when you've just crossed the Sahara.
It should be obvious to all, but then what if the person has no idea what the Sahara IS?
My November GuestMy Sorrow, when she's here with me,Thinks these dark days of autumn rainAre beautif
Actually, there are three Frosts, but the third is not a very important consideration.To take the third first, this is the Frost of lighter, often satirical poetry, as in, for example “A Case for Jefferson.” This kind of verse is not really Frost’s strong suit and I think his reputation might rest a little higher had he not published it.
This is something poetry can do, that is, placing life’s varied and confusing events in some sort of context; indeed, it is one of its major functions, and Frost does it very well.
Robert Frost is the Thomas Kinkade of poetry.
I've loved Frost's poems for years. "Birches," "A Road Not Taken," a version of which I've sung, "Time to Talk," are just a few of my favorites.

"Two roads diverged in a wood, and I—I took the one less traveled by,And that has made all the difference."Ah those classic lines are music to my ears
Frost grapples with modernist doubts and looming meaninglessness even as he pursues the romantic project of opening poetry to everyday language.
I’ll light the fire for company for you;	You’ll not have any other company	Till Ed begins to get out on a Sunday	To look us over and give us his idea	 Of what wants pruning, shingling, breaking up.
No, this is no beginning.”	 “Then an end?”	“End is a gloomy word.”	“Is it too late	To drag you out for just a good-night call	On the old peach trees on the knoll to grope	By starlight in the grass for a last peach	The neighbors may not have taken as their right	When the house wasn’t lived in?
After three class discussions of his poems, I am dismayed to learn that it's all a hell of a lot more complicated than that.
But he's nice when I don't have to worry about the deep philosophical meaning of birches and can just enjoy the nice comfortable feeling his poems give me.
Here, have a random excerpt.From "Birches":"I'd like to get away from earth awhileAnd then come back to it and begin over.May no fate willfully misunderstand meAnd half grant what I wish and snatch me awayNot to return.
Lines from Frost seem to stick in my mind forever since studying him in high school and college and graduate school.
" 'Home is the place where, when you have to go there,/They have to take you in.’/ ‘I should have called it/Something you somehow haven’t to deserve.’ "Images from this poem are also so Frost-sharp:"Part of a moon was falling down the west,/ Dragging the whole sky with it to the hills./ Its light poured softly in her lap.
She saw it/ And spread her apron to it."Somehow, the older I get and the more I have lived, the more Frost gives to me.
It wasn't my favorite Poetry book i have read! But it wasn't to bad.
Beauty and genius have rarely drawn so light a veil across the face of joy and hollow of darkness as with the pen of Robert Frost.
There are numerous poems throughout this book by Robert Frost. The stories the poems create are simple and understandable. Even the longer poems that spread over a few pages are easy to get through if you want to. My favorite poem in the book is "Leaves compared with Flowers." It was memorable and I had once had it memorized. Works like these bring meaning to poems and cause me personally to want to read more.
If you like poetry don't miss this!
I had hoped to enjoy this collection more than I did. I guess I just didn't get what Frost was saying some of the time. There are still many enjoyable poems here.
I flipped through this book, because honestly I'm not going to read 600 pages of random Robert Frost.
I learned two things while reading through these...where hipsters get excepts of their tattoos from and I'm not a huge fan of the poetry of Robert Frost, but I do find the man himself rather interesting.
*Not to say while reading I didn't run into a few poems that reached out to me, I just can't justify a few poems or a line here or there as classifying myself as a Frost Fan. I get it though.
A wonderful collection of Robert Frost's poetry and 2 plays.
In hindsight, I wish I would have kept a running list of the poems I loved the most.
One of his later poems I enjoyed was The Milky Way is a Cowpath.
I love Frost's sense of humor; he never seems to take himself (or anything) too seriously compared to some poets.
I prefer his rhyming poetry to his free verse.
Then again, I prefer rhyming to free verse for any poet.
I don't care for Frost's plays.
He officially is my new,favorite poet.
The Poetry of Robert Frost is the entirety of the great American poet’s published work, an authoritative volume that is structured to show his progression from his earliest work to his last—with a little exception at the end.
However for those who have only read Frost in school, like me, you will be in for a surprise because the poems in English and/or Literature class are a deceptive selection of his complete works.
While this complete book of Robert Frost’s work is wonderful for poetry enthusiasts, for the more general reader I would suggest you look through this volume and decide if you want a smaller, more select volume of his work.
Whose woods these are...I think I know,His house is in the village thoughHe will not mind me stopping here to watchhis woods fill up with snowmy little horse must think it queerto stop without a farmhouse nearbetween the woods and frozen lakethe darkest evening of the year. When I had to memorize Frost in High School, little did I know how thankful I would be to carry these wordswith me wherever I go. Hopefully, my students feel the same way afterthey labored to memorize the poems I assigned.If you cherish the natural spaces, then you must love Robert Frost.
