https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/80272.Opium
Though there are passages where one sees something of the disintoxication procedure, one will not find any trace of the gritty descriptions of the withdrawing addict's ignoble and demeaning sufferings commonly found in late 20th century confessions.
In fact, though suffering is alluded to (primarily in the drawings), Cocteau remained a defiant aesthete.
Naturally, opium remains unique and its euphoria superior to that of health.
It is a pity that instead of perfecting disintoxication, medicine does not try to render opium harmless.
Nikki Sixx - fuck him. This is the real drug diary of all drug diaries. Cocteau dealing with his Opium habit. Now that's rock n' roll.
this book is supposed to be a diary of cocteau's cure from opium addiction.
as a matter of fact, he points out the benfits of smoking opium, which include feelings of euphoria and fortification against colds,flu and sore throats.
in fact, he considers drinking brandy or smoking cigars to be more harmful than opium.maybe that's true, but i doubt it somehow.at the end of the book are 28 drawings by the author, which are really of more interest than the written text.i was expecting this book to be a lot better than it was.
O tom jak moc se zkouril pise v teto knizce, kde placa pate pres devate, od Fantomase az po osud divadla.
Ja mluvim velmi podobne kdyz opium se, takze mu zcela rozumim.
Treba tudle nedavno jsem mluvil se znamym o kolonialni Angole a az kdyz mi neodpovidal jsem si vsiml, ze je to lampa.
Jiz o tom tez pisu denik, ktery se bude jmenovat Opiju se: Palivo pro vase transformace forem.
V priloze bude DVD, kde kadim obrazy analnim otvorem za zvuku didzerida.Jiz brzy u vsech dobrych klenotniku.Co se tyce teto knihy, doporucuji ji vsem, kteri se chteji pred aplikaci drogy ujistit, ze je to skvely napad.
Το όπιο είναι το ημερολόγιο της αποτοξίνωσης του Κοκτό.
Αν και κατά την ταπεινή μου άποψη, στην περίληψή του το βιβλίο δεν υπόσχεται κάτι τέτοιο.
Ο Κοκτό συνδέει εντελώς παραληρηματικά και σε μικρές παραγράφους το όπιο, τους όποιους εθισμούς, τις τέχνες, τον Προυστ, το ποιος υπήρξε κατά την χρήση, το ποιος γίνεται κατά την αποτοξίνωση και το ποιος θα είναι μετά την έξοδό του από την κλινική.
Σε οποιαδήποτε περίπτωση, μιλάμε για έναν εξαιρετικό δημιουργό με το όπιό του να είναι ένα ασυνήθιστο πόνημα που αποτέλεσε (νομίζω) και την διέξοδό του κατά τις δύσκολες μέρες της έλλειψης.
Jean Cocteau byl francouzský univerzální umělec počátku 20.
století, který psal, divadloval, filmoval, maloval, fetoval a prcal Jeana Maraise a tak dále pana krále.
Srovnatelný je snad z našich luhů a hájů jedině František Ringo Čech a Vladimír Šmicer.Ze zápisků jsem si vzal ponaučení, že opium je čokoládová fontána plná krásných nahých buchtiček, který se tam cákaj, zatímco jejich jednorožcci čekají poslušně uvázaný k duhám z marcipánu a povídaj si s plyšovejma helikoptérama.Jdu se mrknout na amazon jestli neseženu nějaky opium.
Dycky sem si myslel, že drogy sou špatný, ale Cocteau píše, že opium je výjimka.
"Un stil care sa nu se nasca decat dintr-o sectiune taiata prin mine, dintr-o incremenire a gandului prin trecerea brutala de la interior la exterior. Cu aceea oprire naucita a taurului cand iese in arena. Sa-ti expui fantomele tasnirii unei fantani impietritoare, sa nu inveti sa migalesti obiecte ingenioase, ci sa impietresti din zbor orice lucru inform care iese din tine. Sa dai volum conceptelor". Ce diferenta de viziune asupra actului creator fata de scriitorii contemporani.
Cocteau: figlio di Baudelaire, fratello di Bataille! Una sviscerazione elegante, sempre seducente, dell'oppio come Paradiso Artificiale - forse semplicisticamente: ma sempre di escapismo si tratta! Una lettura ipnotica, a cui mi sono affezionata - come mi sono affezionata a Jean: affinità elettive? - che mi è spiaciuto terminare.
Cocteau evokes similarities to Thomas De Quincy's 'Confessions of an English Opium-Eater', written one-hundred years earlier, reaching parallel conclusions such as the role of the poet as a seer, and the necessity for remaining in the deep creative sleep of poetry, the 'only crime being, to be superficial.'Having already been fond of Cocteau as a filmmaker-- The Blood of a Poet (1930) being one of my personal favorite films of all time-- this was not an introduction to Cocteau's work for me, but could perhaps be recommended as such-- the epigrams being short witty statements, with not one being any longer than a single page each.
It is undoubtedly the old sensation of intimacy that governs the delight I feel when I listen to thunder"A serious of different texts combined into what was meant to be a journal of a Cure to an Opium addiction, it is rather intriguing how we see the growth of the writer, his own personal growth as an artist.
There's also the question of how opium improves or not an artist's work.I've enjoyed every page from it, it is different, there's no narrative, there's just notes from his days battling to cure his addiction, and within those notes his pain is so imminent.
Očekávala jsem lehké odpočinkové a mírně bizarní čtení a netušila jsem přitom, jak důležité se pro mě tyto zápisky později stanou.
Není to nic víc, než se píše - deník jedné detoxikace.
Není v tom nic důležitého, nic, kromě vlastních útržkovitých a později celistvějších myšlenek samotného autora.
Kdo se k ní také nenavrací.Není to jen o drogové závislosti.
Není to jen o absťáku.
Není to jen o tom, že autor zná spoustu svých, dobových francouzských spisovatelů.
Není to jen o opiu.
Není to dávka surrealismu, kterou jsem hledala.
Je přesně tou, kterou jsem potřebovala.
" pisac vezhba svoj duh. takav trening skoro da ne dopushta bilo kakvo bavljenje sportskim aktivnostima. on zahteva patnju, padove, lenjost, slabost, neuspehe, zamor, zhalost, nesanicu - vezhbu suprotnu od one koja snazhi telo.pitam se kako ljudi mogu da pishu knjige o zhivotu pesnika, kada ni sami pesnici ne bi mogli da pishu o sopstvenom zhivotu. u njemu je suvishe tajne, suvishe istinitih lazhi, sve je suvishe zamrsheno. datumi se preklapaju, godine se brkaju. sneg se topi, stopala dobijaju krila - otisci ishchezavaju."
It is not just book about detocsication , it is book about everything, art, imagination, literature and small history of clinic. This maybe best book of Cocteu..because it is result of provocation..I have enjoyed in each page..If you exspect to read about real purification you would not find this..this is book about addiction in positive sense..But really zou should not try opium to be such writer..Coctault was unic for his time..and period as personality..Opium was a part of mazbe experiment..either inspiration..
In addition to Cocteau’s insights into the logic of opium and addiction, there are passages on filmmaker Luis Buñuel, on Sigmund Freud, on dreams, on surrealist coincidences. The book includes, surprisingly, a series of amusing anecdotes about dogs.
On ne parle pas beaucoup d'opium dans ce livre,pas mal de choses inintéressante ,beaucoup de poétique et heureusement tellement bien ecrit
Eh... perhaps I'm being a bit unfair. Largely an endless stream of short observations about opium, along with asides about the artistic milieu of Cocteau, of which I don't know much and don't much care. Occasional interesting nuggets, not enough to make it juicy reading for me.The opium parts would be better suited as a tweet-storm than as a book.
Highly literary bathroom reading. This isn't a book so much as a collection of pity comments about the art scene of the author's time. There are a few good ones; so it isn't a waste of time. To get all the bon mots and pointed comments, it helps to know a lot about the important writers of the time.Oddly enough there isn't that much in it about opium.
Lo mejor que e leído este año
Magnifique ouvrage, particulièrement poignant !Journal sur une habitude malsaine, l'Opium.
It shows how writing and drawing and any form of art could be an escape from the pains in the world , the addiction to create, and the disappointment which overwhelms one when they’re no longer able to create anything.
The 28 drawings at the end of the book illustrate what Cocteau experienced during his addiction and the cure from it, the agony, the comfort, the discomfort, all drawn in beautiful simple lines.
El formato de diario es su única limitación lógica, ya que grandes ideas quedan reducidas a cortas frases, aunque estas están cargadas de una letal sutileza.
Mi desconocimiento del resto de la obra de Cocteau, asi como mi ignorancia general sobre el paisaje de la vida social en París en los 1920s, ambos factores siendo recurrentes en los pasajes de este diario.
Su discurso sobre la droga va más allá del bien o el mal, de su connotación social o demás; o mejor dicho, va mas hacia el bien que hacia el mal...
Volveré a fumar si mi trabajo quiere.
I picked this up at a used book sale in Honomu due to it being mentioned many times in Opium Fiend. More of a collection of aphorisms and impressions than a straight-ahead story or essay, this memoir was a mixed bag. The parts about opium were interesting enough, but there were many more parts about Cocteau's theories about aesthetics and French literature, all of which did just as good a job as opium would have at putting me to sleep.
* 1000 novels everyone must read: the definitive list: Family and SelfSelected by the Guardian's Review team and a panel of expert judges, this list includes only novels – no memoirs, no short stories, no long poems – from any decade and in any language. Originally published in thematic supplements – love, crime, comedy, family and self, state of the nation, science fiction and fantasy, war and travel – they appear here for the first time.
The experience of Cocteau’s recovery from opium addiction in 1929, what sometimes remarks on his current thoughts about other people and things in his world. His descriptions and criticisms include references to his own works or to the climate of the period and offer a stunning look at his own thoughts in this extraordinary moment. It was a brilliand read…
"El decir a un fumador en estado continuo de euforia que se está degradando equivale a decirle a un pedazo de mármol que está siendo deteriorado por Miguel Ángel, a un pedazo de tela que está siendo manchado por Rafael, a una hoja de papel que está siendo emborronada por Shakespere o al silencio que está siendo interrumpido por Bach."
Descoperind personalitatea lui Cocteau in aceste pagini, e imposibil sa ramai indiferent fata de acest geniu al artei. Totusi mi-as fi dorit mai mult de la acest jurnal, mi se pare putin fragmentar. Abunda in cugetari despre scriitorii pe care ii citeste, despre creatie si revolutionarea acesteia. Despre efectele Opiumului si despre sentimentele sale scrie mai putin.
It's an amazing diary of recovery from Opium addiction. Cocteau's writings about his recovery and the drawings in the book are simply stunning. I enjoyed this book. This is one of Cortazar's favorite books.
Cannot find a copy; also would like verification this is essentially the same as "Opium: The Diary of an Addict" translated by Ernest Boyd and published by Longmans, Green & Co. of New York.
Can't review this one really, it's just too long ago when I read the book. It's just that this is one I can remember reading.I think I was smoking the same cigarettes as Jean at the time. Can't remember if my copy was illustrated?
yeah, i'm pretty sure this book would be of no use actually quitting heroine, but cocteau is an amazing artist.
