https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/197169.Only_Yesterday
The evidence gets old, the arguments get settled or the style becomes out-dated and the read just isn't the same.
Well, Frederick Allen Lewis sure showed me up.
Lewis was an editor at the Atlantic and I wonder if his style has influenced later writers there.
He describes a very popular book called the Man Nobody Knows which argued that Jesus was the founder of modern business thanks to his executive experience and his skills at advertising.Reading this book, I was both happy and sad to see that we as a society have many of the same problems.
A very thorough review of the very turbulent decade of the 1920s.
As James Howard Kunstler said in a recent podcast (probably quoting somebody else), "History doesn't repeat itself, but it rhymes." We find a lot of "rhyming' with recent years in the story of the 1920s: starting the decade with a blind faith in the power of capital, and attacking those who question the irrational exuberance of the dedication to material gain; the rise of sports and entertainment as dominant forces in American culture; the failure of Prohibition, and the rise of organized crime as a result; and the naivete of those who expected "prosperity" to continue forever.
(Republicans never change, do they?) Many more comparisons can be found in the text.Overall a very interesting observation of the USA of the time, from politics to culture, and everyday life.
There’s politics, political scandals, the Big Red Scare, laxity of morals among the young and technology that altered the daily habits of Americans.
Young people were not staring at candlestick phones, wall phones or into phone booths, but were listening with fascination to the new technology of radio.Only Yesterday is a wonderful book about the fashion, fads, music, sports of the 1920s, first published in 1931.
I was looking for a book to get the feel and mindset of people living in the Roaring Twenties that didn’t read like a textbook and this book was more than I could have hoped for.
I read it years ago, but it is easily one of the best compact histories of the 1920s.
The only thing I can compare it to is the multi-volume Mark Sullivan series "Our Times" (which dealt with several decades, but Allen is a more engaging writer.
Many things that seem iconic about the decade are ignored or glossed over in this book, but it gives a rather immediate sense of the everyday concerns and social attitudes of the time.
Although not quite as good as "Only Yesterday," Allen's study of the 1930s, called "Since Yesterday," is also worth reading.
This classic of popular history is the best first place to go to wade into the decade of the 1920s.
I read this many years ago, but I'll never forget the story about the company sales dinner in which the salesmen were humiliated by exponentially decreased meal portions based on their sales performance.
That story somehow gets at the heart of darkness of the cutthroat side of the modern American Dream; a Republican wet dream of social Darwinism gone amok.
One of the most memorably interesting things about the book is its wistful and distanced perspective, because even though this was published in 1931, it already regarded the 1920s as ancient history.(KevinR@Ky)
This is a very interesting little book which touches on the memorable (and not so memorable) events of the Roaring 20's.
The author covers most of the things that history lovers already know but adds his own thoughts which makes old material new again.
Since it was written in the 1930's, there are some events that have been interpreted a little differently in the present day.
Time has shown that this is not exactly the way it was but that just makes the information more interesting.
His analysis of the stock market crash is very well done and understandable even to the reader who knows little about how that system works.
It seems like wedged between WW I and The Depression was a time of exuberance and exciting changes during a period of enlarging freedom (Women Granted the Right to Vote in U.S.) and improved quality of life (radio frenzy).
This all jibes peculiarly with sociological pathology (crimes and trials "of the century" like Leopold and Loeb Murder a Neighbor Out of Boredom; "Fatty" Arbuckle Scandal) and loosening of sexual mores in flapper lifestyle and shortening skirts much documented by F.
That wireless invention was bringing in the world's exciting changes and discoveries: Tomb of King Tut, Not all knowledge was embraced and the radio made the nation ringside to The Scopes (Monkey) Trial and the imperiled
This book was SO interesting.
I feel like I have a more well rounded view of New York (and America) in the 1920s.
All I was really in love with was the flapper dresses and speakeasies.
But with this book, the author explains how the change of technology (the radio), culture, the stock market, agriculture, magazines all affected each other.
The contrast of city vs.
country.
Why people moved where.
I wish I had taken better notes because there was so much to learn.
He also wrote a book about the 30s -- only a few years after both decades wrapped up so it feels very current.
This is an approachable, fascinating overview of the 1920s, covering everything from popular culture to hemlines to the Florida land boom to the stock market crash. The original edition was published in 1931 (and is available as a free legal download through the New York Public Library at archive.org).
Case in point: a guy gets stuck in a cave as he was worming his way throughthe underground to find natural resources for companies.
A mine collapse during the same period gets scant coverage even though many people died.- The profits of heroism - Charles Lindbergh again, but today it's celebrities who make even less an impact and receive great compensation: CEO's, sports players, musicians.
to continue unbridled" (ha ha!)- lost prestige of religion- Extreme PC-ism based on nothing "The red scare" (See Trumbo), where an actualgovernment committee was funded to perform witch hunts by pointing a finger at someone and accusing someone of people a US-hating communist.- Political fund-raising and government contract scams where the whistle-blowers are treated as the bad guys, even by the press.The circle of life can be dizzying.
ONLY YESTERDAY. (1931). Frederick Lewis Allen. *****.This book was assigned as required reading for a history course I was taking in college in 1958. We all groaned about another required book, but as I was heading home on the train after leaving the college bookstore, I started reading it. I missed my stop and had to walk back to the correct one for about  of a mile. It was that absorbing. I felt that it was time to re-read it, hoping that I wouldn’t be disappointed at this exercise. I wasn’t.
*****.This book was assigned as required reading for a history course I was taking in college in 1958.
We all groaned about another required book, but as I was heading home on the train after leaving the college bookstore, I started reading it.
This is probably one of the best “informal” histories that you will ever read.
Allen managed to put all his facts together and present them to the reader in such a way that you could understand them.
The subtitle of the book was, “An Informal History of the 1920’s.” The decade after WW I was full of important events which Allen managed to cover very well.
This is, as the title suggests, the history of the 1920s, chiefly in the USA.
Despite the fall of the USSR, rise of the internet and election of non-white as a president of the USA.It is interesting how open the author speaks about prohibition and Al Capone, I thought that a lot of details were open to general public much later.
Other flashlights: the Red Scare of 1920, Lindbergh’s flight, Ford model A, boom and crash of the stock market, Harding and corruption, Wilson and the world peace.Recommended as a forgotten jewel of the early 1930s to anyone who has the basic knowledge of the period
Only Yesterday by Frederick Lewis Allen starts out as an interesting book.
The cake begins to get sweeter and harder to digest until the reader has to take a break before starting again.
Although the first chapters were captivating, the rest of the book only contained a few sentences that were worth reading.
Even so, the beginning of the book was an insight into daily life for an ordinary family and was delightful to read.
This book is recommended to readers who enjoy reading plain, stated facts and a more encyclopedia-like book on the 1920’s.
This is a great book because it contextualizes the '20s so that you can understand everything that's happening as it happens--from Scott Fitzgerald's writing to Lindbergh's famous flight to the Dempsey-Tunney fight to the stock-market crash and prohibition.
And it's written informally enough that it is entertaining.
He was just in the wrong place at the wrong time.A very enjoyable read.

This book, published in 1931, is an example of why good writing is essential. Even though most readers will hardly be interested in the minutiae of the 1920s, Frederick Lewis Allen's incredibly modern and readable style makes this a book that any reader will enjoy. Some parts are quite memorable, such as his comments about how society did not keep up with the rapid changes that were taking place in the post-World War One decade. You can easily see how his observations fit today's issues of same-sex marriage, for instance.Altogether, this is a classic book.
This probably isn't a fair score. This was assigned reading in tenth grade history. I read it, completed the required exercises, got As on my papers ... and forgot everything. I just didn't identify with anything in the book ... it seemed like ancient history, and yet it truly was "only yesterday." I should read it again.
I confess I didn't finish this. It was just too boring. If the 1920s had been as yawn-inducing as this book, I would have been throwing myself off a window ledge well before the stock market crash in '29.
I first read this book in the mid-nineteen seventies, and I enjoyed it even better this time. Frederick Lewis Allen masterfully narratives and analyzes the nineteen twenties, the events leading up to that decade, and a peek into the next. With the ease
Same for my friend” ---we see here how tv changes morality and points of view of what’s acceptable and appropriate behavior“an upheaval in values was taking place”Prohibition actually did reduce drinking in the lower classes.
The moment love became casual, it became commonplace as well." "They had their freedom but they did not know what to do with it." "What most distinguishes the generation who have approached maturity since the debacle of idealism at the end of the war is not their rebellion against the religion and the moral code of their parents, but their disillusionment with their own rebellion."By the beginning of the decade and the depression in full swing, skirts are longer again and a lot of the liberalism has faded away; though a new less conservative equilibrium is set
This book is not a history of the 1920s seen at a distance, through the lenses of the New Deal, the WPA and NRA, and World War II.
The stock market runs like a scarlet thread through every chapter, not always wide enough to be seen but it's there.I listed this book under World War I as well as the Jazz Age 1920s because it begins with the Armistice and with President Wilson's knightly quest in Paris 1919 for, as the saying goes, "Peace in our time.
Americans wanted to put the war in its grave and never go fighting again -- at least not for democracy in Europe.
I read the book (at a recommendation of a friend), because I was interested in the cultural goings-on in the 1920s, and this book provides a glimpse into the attitudes, interests and fears of average Americans in the decade between the end of World War I and the beginning of the great depression.
Allen's writing is engaging and conversational, burgeoning with statistics and then summed up in poetic summaries, trying to make sense of a large, complex nation already showing ideological and financial chasms between the urban and rural populations.This was written shortly after the end of the decade, and it's interesting to reflect on how much has changed and in what ways, but also to notice what is the same.
My Dad was born in 1927, and I learned a lot from this book.
I'd read books before on specific incidents such as the oncoming drought that the mid-West was starting to see, or the 1929 crash on Wall street but never a book which tied things together as neatly as this book.
It was great to see how the 'War to end all wars' basically wore the American public out.
I also see the speculation which is rampant now, and the very real possibility of another Great Depression hitting this country.
This book should be required reading for anyone worried about the direction this country is going!
So much of what was going on in the twenties are things we deal with now.
Corrupt presidents, economic booms and busts, religious movements, intolerance, changes in social norms.
Fear of immigration, socialism, evolutionary theory.
These issues typified the twenties as they do the current decade.
Though individually many of these issues are perennial, it is the totality of the common mood that is strikingly similar.The book is remarkably modern in its tone; though there are linguistic and stylistic details consistent with being written in 1931, the author is remarkably modern and enlightened in his outlook and approach, to include views on immigration, race, gender, and even homosexuality.I came away with a much better appreciation for events I was vaguely familiar with from school or was completely ignorant of, and I especially enjoyed learning about the relationships between them, their causes, and their effects.
It makes sense, though, because his style isn't at all academic and he has a wry sense of humour as he covers a number of different topics ranging from changing social mores, the threat of Communism, to convoluted scams and criminal activity that the Roaring '20s became famous for.This book, written merely two years after the stock market crash, helped bridge the gaps in my knowledge.
It's pretty remarkable that Allen managed to write this book in a manner that didn't seem unfamiliar to a reader eighty-plus years later.
I’ve picked up Only Yesterday: An Informal History of the 1920's as I needed to start somewhere and I’ve pilled it up on top of Lewis’ Since Yesterday: The 1930's in America, September 3, 1929 to September 3, 1939 and The Big Change: America Transforms Itself 1900-1950 - nonfictional coverage of the America history period I know little about.
In brief, eye-opening, engaging and rather unbiased coverage of a period of unprecedented change in history of a society and country that would become dominant power on the world stage.
A fun read. The similarities with the author talks about the 1920s, and how we talk about our current time are astounding. The origin of mass communications, radio and centralized daily newspapers, and the changing fashions, intellectualism, and terror bombings. There are shortcomings to this book, but it was written right on the cusp of the rush of emotions that came about during that period, which brings a better sense of what the time felt like.
For any one looking for a 1920s resource, this book provides fantastic narrative insight to the pre-Depression era with a look at shifting social mores, political trends as well as an interesting overview of the movers and shakers of the period. I absolutely loved the exploration of the events from the perspective of someone with the foresight to do a historical survey of the times within the era.
It's pretty impressive that this book was written almost 90 years ago. I enjoyed seeing history from a time much closer to that era. However, that also meant a lot of references that are hard for a modern reader to get. I found myself skimming over a lot of content just to plow through the book - and it still was a long and slow read. If you have the patience and a love for history, you might enjoy this book. If not, you might not make it through. I almost gave up several times!
This was a very good book. The history was accurate, but more interesting to me was the manner in which the author captured the feelings and experiences of the decade. It took me a long time to read, because I found some chapters flowed better than others, and, as a result, were more interesting to me, and that made them easier to read and enjoy.If you are interested in the 1920's, this is a very good source.
