https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/11331421-the-art-of-hearing-heartbeats
This here's the BACKSTORY, and the only way I can figure out how to communicate it is by having Julia's mother basically just blather on about the whole thing in monologue." After the mother relates this, she pretty much disappears from the novel, because the only reason she was in the book in the first place was to act as freakin' Greek Chorus.
Second device: throughout the entire novel, he voices questions that the characters are thinking, one after the other.
"Did Sam turn left because he loved Lucinda?
Did Sam turn right because he wanted to ignore Abigail?
Fourth, Sendker forgets that he has another character relating the central story, which involves bits that there's no way he could have known.
Not sure why really, except maybe anger at myself for spending so much time on bad books--badly written, lazily edited, simply or more likely horrifically plotted--I've gotten to where I just don't want to bother anymore simply not to run the risk of feeling like it was time wasted.As a writer myself, I see the puppet strings, the skeletal framework, and at times feel the sweat and tears that have been poured into every line.
But in the end you will feel like a better person for having experienced a love story that spans ages, continents, cultures and families.I am sorry I had to finish it.
But feel like a better human, and hopefully a better writer, for having done it in one sitting.
When Julia gets to Burma, she meets a man who tells a long and somewhat uneventful story of her father's life before he came to the U.S. He was in love with a woman named Mi Mi, who he was wrongly separated from because of a meddlesome uncle.
It turns out her father has traveled back to Burma to be with Mi Mi. After Julia comes to terms with this so-called romantic story, she wants to see her father.
Why couldn't he just tell his family why he needed to travel to Burma and have the decency to come clean?
Tin Win's story is told to Julia by U Ba, an old man that approaches her in a Burmese cafe.
I know I used the word fairy tale earlier so I tried to use that to justify this storytelling device...but I think that the book would have worked better for me if we heard this story either from Julia's father directly or from an omniscient narrator because then I wouldn't have to stop myself from thinking "He couldn't possibly know that!!!"The ending is a little too neat for me but I will let this slide since that is how fairy tales tend to be.
The Art of Hearing Heartbeats was all of those adjectives....and so much more.Julia is in her late 20's and living in New York, has always had a loving father even if his and her mother's marriage was not perfect, and she believes her fast-paced life in the field of law is following in his footsteps.
U Ba telling the story to Julia resulted in an interesting cultural comparison between the slower, family-oriented life of the people of Burma and the fast-paced, career-centric life of the typical New Yorker.
It may not be the perfect book for everyone, but for me, Mr. Sendker seems to have heard my heart and made me fall in love.
This book is a perfect example of what I consider "book club bait." A compelling blurb, major publisher's backing, glowing reviews, eloquent prose, family drama, journey of self-discovery, troubled self-sacrificing protagonist who just wants to do "the right thing."Book clubs fall for these things all the time.
The story did not and still does not sit right with me.
(view spoiler)[Such an ending, such a revelation will never sit right with me, regardless of story or genre.
This is the story of a young boy who, born under an unlucky star, goes through great trials and tribulations with his star-crossed love, becomes blind during childhood and, after a period of maladjustment, gains zen superpowers and becomes a celebrity lawyer.If it sounds like I may be mistakenly writing a review for a Daredevil comic, that's not an accident.
When, later on in the book, they are (inevitably) separated, Tin Win, even with his awesome superpowers, completely loses his ability to do much of anything, because all these years of being blind obviously didn't teach him to test his environment in a cautious and independent manner.In fact, the two are so much in love that, whenever they are separated for any period of time, Tin Win becomes terminally ill.
I write factual and complex assessments as a part of my job, so feel no desire to analyze this book.
The Art of Hearing Heartbeats was an absolute joy to read.Translated (I thought) beautifully from German, it was a love story written with wonderfully descriptive language and an almost lyrical quality.
I was happy to accept this book for what it is...I know that many readers have identified a number of perceived flaws...but I enjoyed each and every page, and found myself not wanting this beautiful story to end.
I finished The Art of Hearing Heartbeats in a flood of tears, emotionally connected to the main protagonists.Poignant, thoroughly enjoyable, thought provoking and overwhelmingly joyful.
I loved this book!
In making the setting a mountain province of Burma, a country not much opened to the outside and stuck in a pre-WWII lifestyle, things had not changed significantly since the 1950s and if they had, very few English-speaking eyewitnesses would be able to refute it.
A novel is always suspect in what it reveals, but in this case we can understand as outsiders understand, a way into a South Asia culture that is so remote and so different from modern-day Western culture.
And if we don't even know the individuals who have accompanied us since birth--we not them and they not us--then what do we know about anyone at all?
Can there ever be such a person?" Certainly these are questions worth pondering, but I'd prefer to draw them out from the writing myself rather than being handed a pop quiz within a paragraph.
The wild swing between Julia's uncertainties and U Ba's nearly omniscient narration gave rough edges to what was otherwise an artfully imagined story.
We assert that the other person does not love us.
But perhaps he merely loves us in some idiosyncratic way that we fail to recognize."
There was a day when I would have deeply loved this book.
It is a modern-day fairy tale and a solid work of literary art.
The story follows Julia, a lawyer from New York looking for clues as to her father's sudden (not accidental) disappearance.
When her mother gives her a love letter her father had once written to someone -- someone named Mi Mi -- a long time ago, Julia decides to follow the address all the way to her father's hometown in Myanmar.
Nevertheless, I can see that those who love fairy tale love stories and exotic locations will definitely find this book a gem.
The Art of Hearing Heartbeats is unlike any other story I have read.
But it reads as like a very good non-fiction or biography book would.
Better, yet, I personally found gems of inspiration in the book - beautiful takeaways for daily life.
Were I able to select more than one category, I certainly would!After reading this book, I posited those gems in my heart and one by one I am sharing them with others, hoping the 'truth' I felt might be shared.
The Art of Hearing Heartbeats might be unattainable to me, but perhaps I can be more attune to the world around me, if I just quiet myself a little.
Julia Win chooses to take the path that may lead to her understand why, with no real hint of the decision, her father one day gets on a plane and never returns.This book isn't a Roshomon, a look at the same event from the perspective of various individuals.
More than anything else it is about "mindfulness" and Julia's journey to a place where she can view her father with equanimity.
Charting this journey must have been a real challenge for Sendker.
The story of Tin Min and Mi Mi is really touching.
Their lives unfold in a manner that each would have changed, if they could, yet they stayed true to each other.
A few reviews mention a fairy tale feeling.
That's true.
I hadn't thought of that while listening; there are sensitive people who do hear and feel differently than most, their senses are tuned differently.
But.....the story has a fairy tale aura around it because of that different way of hearing and seeing and being.
I'm doing something I don't usually do....I'm requesting the second book right away.
I hope it holds the mystique and wonder of this book.
The boy excels in school and is then sent to the United States for further education.I won't offer too much info other than to say the two do eventually get back together.There were many fabulous quotes in the book and following are some of my favorites:"a person's greatest treasure is the wisdom in his own heart""the true essence of things is invisible to the eyes""life is a gift of riddles where suffering and happiness are inextricably intertwined""he did not merely read books but traveled with them,that they took him to other countries and unfamiliar continents, and that with their help he was always getting to know new people..."This book was published in 2002 in German and has become well loved in both Germany and Switzerland.

I was enamored with the title, not so with its content. The writing was just flat and the characters did not come alive to me at all. Disappointing!

A heartwarming story about love, death, happiness and the senses with traditional Burmese values and beliefs included. A young lawyer travels to a small village in Burma in search of her father, who abandoned his U.S. family. Once there, she finds an old man, who tells her a story about two children with handicaps, who find soulmates, each completing the other. Author Sendeker does a good job weaving the past and present, but it's cliché in many ways.
I mean, if you like Paulo Coelho you'll eat this shit up, but ughh.
It's so sickly sweet, like eating 17 cubes of sugar and swallowing it down with soda.
The writing is so incredibly sloppy, I cannot even begin to understand how this atrocity of a book could be published without someone actually realising that it's like a fucking 15-year-old wrote it.
fucking.
issue they ever come across because their hearts are so pure, so full of unconditional love.
Allow me to fucking vomit all over this unrealistic, stupid mess.
It has taught me nothing except unconditional hate.
The storyteller portion of the book drew me in, the story of Mi Mi and Tin Win is touching and sweet enough to keep you reading, but between the jagged and abrupt flashbacks take you out of the story and into the analysis of the writing - and then whatever magic has been drawn is lost.
The story still has charm and is worth reading, and really, I had wanted to give it four stars, but ...
In the end, I felt the author redeemed the story just enough.
I thought I would like this book more but it just didn't grab me as much as I thought it would . There's some lovely writing but what should have been a beautiful love story for me was a bit shallow. More like 2 & 1/2 stars.
Love stories--really good love stories--are hard to find, and by extension, must be hard to write.
I think that's because in order for a reader to accept the love story, they themselves must, in some measure, fall in love with the characters, or maybe the setting, or circumstance, or writing.
There was poetry in the small village in the mountains of Burma, and the love that grows between Tin Win and Mi Mi feels natural and inevitable from the start--and not just because they are both broken people, but because Sendker brings them to life in a meaningful and soulful way with a narrative that is infused with introspection and an empathy that reveals a sublime hidden world, not just to Julia, but to the reader as well.'Heartbeats' will not disappoint.
This on audio was read very slowly and methodically, which seemed quite appropriate. The wrong voice, the wrong inflections could have made this too sweet to bear. And I just cannot imagine this being half as beautiful if read in its original German language. Ach, nein!But the story slowly pulled me in and made me feel an appreciation and awe for the world we live in, for beauty in nature, for young and enduring love. 3.5 stars.
I love this book and the discussion I am having with my friend about it. Honestly this is one of the best books I read this year.. smooth,,deep, lovely, wonderful expressions. A perfect gift for a loved one. I want to hear heartbeats and this should be made into a movie.
171 Perhaps this really does deepen their bond in a way that most of us can’t understand.I don’t have it all figured out yet, but my hunch is that the point of the book is not that hearing heartbeats is necessarily magical realism or a special talent that Tin Win has because he is blind.
What if romantic love was understood as U Ba describes it to Julia: “Of course I am not referring to those outbursts of passion that drive us to do and say things we will later regret, that delude us into thinking we cannot live without a certain person, that set us quivering with anxiety at the mere possibility we might ever lose that person—a feeling that impoverishes rather than enriches us because we long to possess what we cannot, to hold on to what we cannot.
But Julia is forced to suspend her disbelief as she finds her way toward the truth.
In this way, he forces us to really understand the heart and soul of the novel.
In this way, the book’s title also comes to make perfect sense."The true essence of things is invisible to the eyes.
Our sensory organs love to lead us astray, and the eyes are most deceptive of all...We believe that we see the world around us, and yet is only the surface that we perceive."I wish that I had not seen the full truth of the ending coming so early on.
One day, in a box of her father's things, Julia finds a letter her father wrote more than 50 years before to a woman in Burma, a woman Julia never heard of before.
Determined to find out who this woman was, and where her father might have gone, Julia leaves home and work and heads to Burma (now Myanmar), to this woman's village.
She has no idea what she'll find, and what she uncovers is a story about overcoming grief and sadness, the beauty of the senses, and the amazing power of love.
Julia is then treated to a fairy-tale-like story of her father and his childhood (but everlasting) love, growing up in rural Burma.
Her father was blind, his love Mimi was crippled, the two of them were good-looking, saintly, perpetually lovable, and had a passion at 20 that somehow outlasted decades of separation with each of them supposedly living a full life in their own sphere.
The story was somehow too sweet for me, with this one-dimensional love, perfect good guys and evil bad guys, etc., etc.
I like my stories a little more complex.
If there could possibly be a perfect book for me at this precise moment in my life, having just lost my father who was very precious to me, this was it.
In the story, as in true life, all is not as it may seem, and Julia, who also has lost her father, has to come to terms with the realization that she really knew very little of who her father really was.
There's definitely a spiritual feel to the book, so wait until you're in the right mood to read it ...
but definitely read it.
