https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/257962.The_Catch_Trap
I read this book every year.It is like a vacation for me, I take time, set it aside and go visit Tommy and Matt for a few weeks.
I am reading it on my Kindle Fire this year and I feel like I am cheating a little on my big old hardback copy, but the ability to open up and BE there with Tommy and Matt in a blink of an eye...invaluable.
If my Kindle stopped doing everything else but display this book, I would still think it was a good investment.This isn't a love story where two perfect people fall in love.
Marion ZB was obviously a talented writer, and I have enjoyed some of her other works, but as a gay, male reader, I found this piece so poorly done, so brutal, even offensive at times, that I honestly don't think I could read anything else by her.
Again, she was obviously talented, but it almost seemed like this was some inconsequential story that she didn’t really care about but wrote it just to prove that she could write about the subject matter.
I actually read this several years ago and haven't done a proper review for it at the time.Looking b
This is hands down, the best book I've ever read with gay men as the main characters. It's honestly a masterpiece of gay literature. This is the story of love and romance between Mario and Tommy, two circus flyers, and everything that happens around them. It's so original, so creative, and so expertly written. The details and descriptions put into this are excellent and reading it was almost surreal. I was in love with it from the first chapter and didn't want it to end. I wish there were more books like this out there. It gets my highest recommendation.
I can see her concerns, considering the homosexual plotline, but I wish she hadn’t done it, as I always like to be informed when reading, saying to myself “I did not know that!” and as she’s invented the first proponent of the triple, and the men who are performing it, I didn’t get that kick of real history.After a while, Tommy is invited to train properly and moves in with the Santelli family, a vast, bickering exuberant bunch.
Tommy, the character whose POV is mostly used, is, at fifteen, young and naive, and so very much in love with Mario, his trapeze mentor who is about eight years older than him.Mario is a hard person to love, though.
I love the time setting (forties and fifties) and I'm glad Ms. Zimmer Bradley didn't shy away from the realities of that time.
Homosexuality was illegal and Mario's fear of getting caught didn't stop when Tommy came of age.
The self-loathing in Mario isn't covered up or glossed over.
Um livro magnífico, é o que me ocorre comentar.
Os voadores Mário e Tommy apaixonam-se, discutem, lutam, desaparecem das vidas um do outro (não sem consequências), mas o amor que nutrem um pelo outro sobrevive a tudo e ao tempo em que estão separados.
Também na família, confusa e conflituosa, o amor que sentem uns pelos outros prevalece.
E neste âmbito familiar, o mais relevante, os preconceitos relativamente ao amor de Mário e Tommy podem não ser vencidos, mas estes encontram o seu lugar entre os que amam, sentindo-se e sabendo que são amados, e que ninguém os apontará ou tentará separar.
Tanta, mas tanta coisa a dizer sobre esta obra prima de Marion Zimmer Bradley e eu pouco vou dizer.A
I read this as a teenager decades ago. It was the first or one of the very first, books with gay characters and positive ones at that. It holds a special place in my heart.
One of the family members who trains the kid begins to fraternize with him; actually the love story is he is an emotionally unstable pedophile who begins to prey on the kid in his sleep, attempting to furnish him alcohol, secretly gropes him with other people present, and so on.
The pedophile expresses remorse for his actions and the 14 yo (actually I suppose he's 15 at the halfway point) reassures the pedophile that it's alright and that he loves him.
I have reread this book many many times... It takes place during the 20's and 30's in the life of a circus performer and the family that he joins to become a famous trapezee artist. This is an amazing look at circus history over several decades as well as about love both romantic and familial. It was one of the best books ever.
Soon Tommy becomes one of the family, even going by the name Tommy Santelli during the act.Bradley does two things extremely well in this book: (1) describes circus life and especially the art of the trapeze in rich and vivid detail, bringing it to life for the reader; and (2) creates a realistic love story between two men, not shying away from all the implications of that relationship for the characters and the time.Mario and Tommy are in love, but they have to hide it.
The core of this novel is about the love between Tommy Zane and Mario Santelli, and what makes the book good is that the author never lost sight of that purpose.
Tommy and Mario are first introduced within the first few pages of the book and their story carries the plot all the way to the end.
No bitter taste in mouth by the end.My standards for gay novels are usually lower than most novels, both because of the scarcity of the genre and the fact that the author gets brownie points simply for writing a book about gay characters at all.
So many family dramas and reconciliation, through the second world war and on, the Santellis struggle to hold their famous place under different circus canvanses, and though there are fights and betrayals, losses and deaths, changes and traditions challenged, the family ties remain and the show must go on.When the book opens, Tommy is only a boy of fifteen or so, dying to learn the dangerous and thrilling craft of flying, and when his mentor, temperamental but oh so beautiful Mario takes him under his wing, nothing could have prepared Tommy for the epic love story he was going to live.In the end.
Like a dandelion gone to seed.The Mists of Avalon was the first Arthurian legend based book that answered the need I had to see strong female characters in my favorite myth.
The Mists of Avalon was a sort of redemption.Bradley was incredibly prolific and I haven't read all of her books.
I'm thinking I may get myself down to a local used bookstore and find a few that I've missed.This one reads, at times, like fan fiction.
This time I waited a week to read the last twenty pages, just to make it last.I wish I could have met her.
Though Tommy must water the occasional elephant, help in the rigging of the big tents and even fill-in for one of the girls in a flying ring act, every day's an adventure.
But recently Tommy is enthralled by the royalty of the circus, the Flying Santellis, the circus's world famous Flying Trapeze attraction.
His father and mother are killed in a tragic traffic accident while Tommy is traveling between cities with his new act.
But the show must go on and Tommy attempts to fight the guilt of the "what if"s about his family tragedy and even more insidious...
I was recommended to read this as an early entry into LGBT literature.
Knowing that I have enjoyed other books by this author, I was looking forward to it.
I never dreamed how much I would enjoy this.
They are each other's lifelines, and when they fully realize that along with their place in each other's lives as well as the larger family, then things will go well.
When they forget that, or turn their back on it, things crash.
If you have any interest in groundbreaking LGBT literature, read this along with The Front Runner, The Charioteer, and The Song of the Loon.
This book had me completely immersed in this fascinating world of circus performers.
I've actually woken up the past two mornings realizing that I had just been dreaming about these characters; that's how completely absorbed I have become in this story.
These two men and the story of their love and dedication to each other and to their art has deeply moved me.
There were at least three different points in the story where I was in tears because of the emotional intensity.
In the end, I was smiling after turning that last page.This book is high on my list of favorites.
A ficção decorre nos anos quarenta e cinquenta do século passado, numa América intolerante e preconceituosa, sendo um excelente e dramático romance sobre o amor entre dois homens, a que se junta uma pesquisa rigorosa sobre a arte do trapézio e o universo do circo daquelas décadas.A narrativa é fluida e a autora conseguiu captar as emoções, medos e pressões do casal de trapezistas, sendo um deles originário de uma família italiana católica.
The best book I ever read.
The author did a great job show casing the time period they lived in and the life in a traveling circus.
It just felt like it went on and on (and on.) The story focuses on Tommy, a teen who's parents are lion tamers in a traveling circus.
Tommy has always wanted to be a "flyer" though and he ends up studying with the family of aerialist that work at the circus.
The book was just too long and had way too little Tommy and Mario for me.
But the story doesn’t just hook you in with longing looks and the faint hint of manlove moments, it’s also an authentic accounts of circus life that makes your remember why, at age 10 and spandex was still an option, you were ready to jump out the window in the night and join a troupe of acrobats.In other reviews I’ve read there are some issues about the age gap when Mario and Tommy start fooling around.
It works for the most part, despite it being a bit of a tome and that the occasional WTF moment —> see Tommy’s parents.There were defnitely issues in the book and it’s not always perfect, but liked it anyway.
It's a wonderful, heart-wrenching story about a pair of circus trapeze artists who fall in love.
The characters are achingly real.There's so much here, both about aerialists, their process and art, and about pre-Stonewall gay men, that one forgives the occasionally purple prose, the claustrophobic angst, and only sees the glory and the heartbreak.
One becomes caught up in the story that leads, inevitably, to Stonewall (though the book ends well before that) and the gains we've made thus far.Here's a quote from near the end of the book:"But I mind," Bart said savagely.
Bradley not only brings the traveling circus world to vivid life, but all the characters as well.
I would have given this novel 5 stars but I disliked all the fighting; maybe the 1940-50's circus life was that rough & tumble, and maybe brothers did fight each other a lot in Italian families, but it was too much for me.
While I love a happy ending and was both glad and relieved that "Catch Trap" had one, it did seem a little too pat the way everything came together for the heroes.
I was somewhat surprised when I first read this book. It was the story of two men who fell in love when one was a young teenager. It follows them through life through struggles to acceptance. Set in the forties and fifties, we also get a good look at circus life. The main characters are aerialists who become the best in the world, but never get away from the stresses caused by their sexuality.
Classic oldie but goodie authored by a phenomenally gifted voice of one of my favorite legendary Arthurian/Camelot writers. This is a beautifully-labored homosexual love saga in a sweeping circus life setting strife with traditional family dysfunctional conflict, with several undercurrent dynamics throughout the story. Minor sidenote; no f'ing sex, which sucks a deflated dick.
I have had a copy of this book in my possession for over twenty years. It was the first love story between two men that didn't make me want to jump off a cliff from the depression. The love story between Tommy and Mario is one everyone should read. It's a stunning story that I will treasure for years.
Este livro, embora se passe nos anos quarenta e cinquenta é um livro intemporal. Os mesmos preconceitos que havia, continuam a existir, embora que por vezes disfarçados... Adorei este livro e estou a pensar relê-lo...
Um salto para tudo o que é novo na vida.
Leva duas estrelas pela 2ª parte, que se leu melhor... Detestei a primeira parte, as personagens estavam sempre aos gritos e irritadas umas com as outras.. E a tradução acho que deixou um pouco a desejar porque as interações entre as personagens por vezes pareciam em falta, disconexas... (penso que isto não tem a ver com a Marion, porque dos outros livros que li dela, isto não aconteceu)Este livro tinha um tema super interessante (acrobatas do circo e relações gay nos anos 40-50), mas acabou por se tornar um livro simplesmente vulgar..
