https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6905012-secret-daughter
Meh. Not a bad story, but too superficially rendered for my taste.Kavita, a poor village woman, has just given birth to an infant daughter she names Usha.
The book follows the twists and turns in these characters' lives as Kavita and her family experience changes of location and fortune and Somer and Krishnan raise Usha (whom they call Asha) who eventually seeks her roots in India.There were moments in this book which resonated and smacked of psychological complexity.
Još jedna od predivnih "indijskih" priča koja nas upoznaje s nama manje poznatim činjenicama iz indijske kulture i života...
Šta znači roditi se kao žensko dete u indijskoj siromašnoj porodici...
A s druge strane, večita bolna tema mnogih porodica koje ne mogu da imaju decu...
Sudari dve kulture, indijske i američke i topla životna priča jedne devojčice...
Nisam zanesena jogom, religijom i ostalim čudima Indije ali obožavam romane indijskih autora ili romane koji govore o Indiji...
egzotičnoj zemlji za nas Evropljane...
:) Toliko mi se dopala knjiga da sam i najvećeg latinoameričkog izdavača "naterala" da kupi prava naslepo (bez prethodnog čitanja)...
I personally can't understand why.In 1984, an Indian woman named Kavita gives birth to a baby girl.
The baby, named Asha, grows up to be a promising journalist, and wins an internship with a major newspaper in India, so she travels to her country of birth for the first time and lives with her father's family, who are strangers to her.
Though her adoptive mother's surpression of her daughter's Indian heritage can be blamed for some of her ignorance, this young woman is a budding journalist.
The character is instantly unlikeable, ignorant and dismissive of her husband's heritage.
Kavita and Jasu are a poor but loving couple living in the rural town of Dhanau, India.
In a society that favors boys and considers girls as a burden, Kavita has to give up her daughter to an orphanage, to protect her life.
But somehow, the author created a beautiful balance between all the factors to give us this amazing story.What I really loved about this book was that every character was allowed to present its point of view.
(view spoiler)[Somer discovering herself before reconciling with her family, Asha understanding the sacrifices her mother made for her, and Kavita and Jasu discovering their love for each other.
(Issue one) Krishnan, an Indian man and Somer, a caucasian woman, think nothing of the difference in their cultures until a trip to India shows Somer the world from which Krishnan comes from.
After adopting a little girl, Asha from India, she begins to wonder if some women just aren't meant for motherhood.
While watching Asha grow up in America with all the spoils of American children, readers all see what is going on in the other side of the world with Asha's biological parents as they stuggle to make a life in Bombay, to rise above oppression and try and try again to "step up" a class or two.
Will she find her biological parents or will all these people go thru their lives without meeting?
Запознавате се отблизо с един от най-големите бедняшки квартали в света – Дхарави, който преди е бил блато с мангрови дървета, заселено от рибари.
Един съсед му бе казал, че полицията търсела човек, който бил заподозрян, че краде от фабриката, където работел.
А после я изнасилили пред очите на майка ѝ и малките ѝ братчета, докато съседите слушали, разтреперани от страх“.Индия обаче има и друга страна.
Културата на Индия е разточителна, а хората ѝ намират спокойствие и в религиозното общение и спазването на ритуали.
А това винаги си заслужава отделените няколко часа от живота.
Това е единственото, което си ги заслужава.
The author bounces back and forth between the two mothers and while the tale of the Indian woman who overcomes grinding poverty to have a son and a decent marriage is interesting for its insight into Indian life, the chapters about the American couple make them seem like whiners (motherhood is hard!
children change a marriage!) There's a bit of tension when the grown daughter goes to India to work and look for her birth parents but this book suffers from having being read on the heels of Audrey Niffenegger whose prose was so descriptive and other-worldly.
I read somewhere in a review that the author did not think that the book was ready but she was encouraged by the publisher to proceed.
I have to agree that I think it was not ready and that the writing is not that of a mature author.
The men are given very little attention which has mentioned many times elsewhere.
The most enjoyable parts and well written parts are those set in India which also focus on Kavita and later Asha her daughter who returns and discovers her roots and family.People who have adopted have come down on both sides regarding this book.
Secret Daughter is a tightly written, realistic novel exploring family dynamics in relation to infertility, adoption, economics, poverty/wealth, and mixed culture relationships; moreover, it's a novel exploring the complexities of the unique cords forever binding (in one form or another) mothers and daughters - daughters and mothers.
As this richly heartfelt story unfolds, she takes readers into the hearts of three main characters (Kavita, Somer, Asha) - in addition to a few key support characters - through their distinct voices, hearts, worldviews, hopes, dreams, faiths, doubts, fears, joys, and cultures.
She has the ability to take you into her world in such a captivating way; making you see all the negatives and the positives of her Homeland, and finally you have nothing but fall in love with this rich and contradicting country.Shilpi Gowda managed to discuss fatal subjects through her book in a smooth and endearing way.
With her rich characters she goes through Poverty, Identity, Motherhood, Traditions, Love, Marital Relationships, Loss, Hope, Family and Adoption.
I truly enjoyed learning about India, although much was disturbing.The story is told from the perspectives of three major characters: Kavita, an impoverished Indian woman who needs to give up her daughter to save her; Somer, a California woman who marries an Indian man and learns she is infertile; and Asha, the daughter Kavita gave up who was adopted by Somer and her husband.
It’s a beautiful story of growth.Gowda used Kavita to illuminate some of the poverty conditions of India and how that affects living choices.
And it’s a beautiful story of family: what makes a family.
The story is centered around the 'secret daughter' Asha/Usha.
In the meantime, Somar, an American woman married to an Indian man, suffers 2 miscarriages and learns she will never have a biological child.
They adopt Asha, and the story proceeds from there.
Somar has troubles with the cultural differences between India and the United States, and constantly worries that she will lose Asha to her biological mother.
Asha wonders about her birth parents and who she really is.
Krishnan, Somar's husband, balances missing his family and India with adopting American culture.
Read the book!
For most of the book I thought I would give it a three but it has been a long time since I cried at the end of the book.The following are facts from the book, not a review!The struggle for women's rights in India: infanticide of baby girls, dowry deaths, bride burning, sex selective abortions.Bride-burning is a form of domestic violence practiced in India .It is not the same as ancient and long abolished (formally abolished in 1829) custom of Sati, where widowed women were forcefully placed on a burning pyre of the dead husband (usually a man in his old age) and burnt to death.This has been treated as culpable homicide and if proven, is punishable accordingly (mostly up to death sentence or life imprisonment) According to Indian National Crime Record Bureau, there were 1,948 convictions and 3,876 acquittals in dowry death cases in 2008.Accounts for around 600-750 deaths per year in India alone.
At the same time, Somaya Gowda manages to paint an extraordinarily rich portrait of modern India – the sharp contrast between its poverty and wealth, its traditions and culture.
I feel I’ve experienced something of India although I’ve never been there.
Shilpi Somaya Gowda has written a captivating first novel about the meaning of family, motherhood, adoption, the search for self and cultural identity.
She tells the story of Asha from birth to early twenties through her own voice, that of her Indian biological mother, Kavita, and that of her American adoptive mother, Somer.
I would highly recommend reading this novel.
Not a bad book but, at one point, when changing the POV yet again, it felt like it was lurching along, perhaps because the story jumped back and forth across the world combined with some large jumps in time.
I think the author knew where she wanted to go but the long timeline and the multiple interior stories she wanted to tell were too much for the book.
Both stories were short-changed in this book, not for lack of ability on the part of the author, just too much story for one book-club-sized book.
An infant daughter is left at a Mumbai orphanage because the family is too poor to raise her. An infertile Indian-American couple, both doctors, adopt her providing her with opportunities and affection. The chapters alternate between Asha’s life in California and her brother’s life in Mumbai. This is an often told story, siblings separated at birth, one to a life of privilege the other to a life of deprivation. This is an unremarkable theme told with unremarkable prose falling into cliché whenever the opportunity permits.
I had read half the book and when my American teacher left, so I was glad I didn't have to finish it. Seriously boring, but she was a nice person, so I tried it for her. Phew.
الان هیجان زده تر از اون هستم که ریویو بنویسم. فقط اینکه خیلی قشنگ بود، خیلی.
It's a terrific book." My expectations were high–slightly too high in the end.In Secret Daughter, author Shilpi Somaya Gowda juxtaposes the stories of two women struggling against circumstances beyond their control.First we meet Kavita, a young woman in a rural India who gives birth to a girl.
With the threat of infanticide looming (in the horrifying opening scene we learn Jasu had the couple's firstborn girl killed), Kavita flees with the baby and leaves her at an orphanage in Mumbai before returning home.Next we meet Californian Somer (the cheesy name fits), who seems to lead a charmed existence.
Great parallel stories of an American woman and Indian woman connected by one child. It was enjoyable to learn a bit about the Indian culture with the author's vivid descriptions. Many topics are touched in this novel such as adoption, self-discovery, and what truly makes a family. The ending was emotional. It will stay with me.
Book club read #5 April 1 2017.
From the princetonbookreview.com: "A stunning debut novel that explores the emotional terrain of motherhood, loss, identity and culture, witnessed through the lives of two families, one Indian, one American, and the daughter who indelibly binds them."My book club absolutely loved this and thought it our best read yet.
I liked her second book more and gave it 3 stars too, so this one is probably more like a 2.5 for me.
Recommended if you are interested in India life, juxtaposed against life in America for interacial families.
This book really pulled me in.
I had the good fortune of being able to read most of it on a long plane ride, so I didn't have to put it down.
To me, the only obvious flaw was that the character of the American mother seemed a bit pat and superficial.
The idea of looking through the eyes of an American woman married to a man who immigrated to the US from India as a young adult was interesting, but the perspective lacked the subtlety of some of the other characters (including the husband).
Still, I am looking forward to more books by this author.
This was a rich deep story of family...love and loss. This is a must read!
Or, what if he’d found a clinic that performed gender identification ultrasounds?Is it possible that I wouldn’t exist at all?Secret Daughter explores many of life’s “what -ifs.” This is the story of two families who – due to both necessity and survival – make decisions that affect them for the rest of their lives.
(The sure sign of a good book!).There are several main characters who all form part of the narrative; Kavita and Jasu from a poverty stricken area of India, and American Somer and her Indian husband Krishnan from San Fransisco and California.Their daughter Usha/Asha binds the future of the two families when she is adopted and moved to US.The journey that Kavita and Jasu make to Bombay, to search for their hope of a better life, was an eye opener, and the wealthy family that Krishnan comes from was also interesting, with the matriach, Dadima holding everything together.There were some interesting contrasts - the slum life of Mumbai vs the riches of America, and the strength of the arranged marriages in India vs the stresses of modern life on the love matches of the West.
I thought that the author played safe with the subject matter she wrote about.The themes were:infanticide of girl babies in India;extreme poverty in India;mother/daughter relationships;adoption;interractial relationships...The author could have really pulled at my heartstrings.
The third book, told from Asha's point of view could have delved into how she felt as an adopted child searching for her birth mother and for her place in the world.
Turn the book into a series of books, flesh out the characters more, provide more descriptive language, and really explore the issues instead of just skimming over the surface.
I love stories that are about mixing cultures and this was exactly that.
I was frustrated with the mother, Somer, as I just can't understand being so closed to a culture.
I'm not sure those two aspects of the story made sense.
I know there was an attempt to explain it within the story but I'm not sure I bought it.
The rich descriptions of India from the poverty to the importance of family and tradition to the frustrating limits to success made me devour those pages.
This book should be on every "Light Reads" list for those who want more than teen lit or ditzy girl/woman fluff.
Loved this story of adoption, family, international travel and India!For read alikes, try these:The Leavers by Lisa KoThe Tea Girl of Hummingbird Lane by Lisa SeeA House for Happy Mothers by Amulya Maladi
Und so erhält Asha, die in eine Familie aus ärmsten Verhältnissen hineingeboren wurde, durch ihre Adoption die Möglichkeit ein amerikanisches Mädchen zu werden, mit allen Optionen auf ein schönes und wundervolles Leben.Asha wird Teil der Familie von Somer und Krishnan, einem Ärzteehepaar, das sich jahrelang nach Kindern gesehnt hat.
Alle Protagonisten erfahren eine Entwicklung, zu der sie das Leben mehr oder weniger gezwungen hat.
Das nahm mich noch mehr für die Geschichte ein und ich bewunderte Shilpi Somaya Gowda für ihren Mut, SO eine Geschichte geschrieben zu haben, die mir am Ende einen Kloß im Hals bescherte!Zum HörbuchIch habe das Buch gelesen und gehört.
A daughter given up in Mumbai, a childless couple in California all converge to center around an amazing little girl named Asha.Mumbai, 1985.
Kavita Merchant gives birth to a 2nd little girl, she doesn't want Asha to face the same fate her firstborn did.
Kavita makes the heartwrenching decision to take her and drop her off at an adoption agency.
Somer & Krishnan, married couple decide to adopt from India, Krishnan's birthplace.
As the story progresses over the course of 20 years, we discover that Asha yearns to find out about her birthparents.
Meanwhile, her birthparents have struggled and lived through many broken promises.
