https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/360437.The_Mask_of_Apollo
Most of the poor reviews for this book are from disgruntled schoolchildren forced to read it as a mandatory assignment.
One must have a taste for this period and a desire to learn more about it before it could be fully appreciated.Mary Renault immerses the reader in the art, culture, habits and times of ancient Greece.
Told through the eyes and thoughts of an actor (all of whom wore masks on stage), Renault tells of the conflicts between logic and passion, good and evil and power and weakness.
She does that so convincingly, one might suspect she stepped out of a time machine from that period.
The Mask of Apollo is one of my favourite straight historical novels (using the word "straight" to distinguish it from crossover historical crime novels, which seem to have taken over fiction set in the past since the sixties).Set in the fourth century BC, the narrator of the novel is a notable Athenian actor named Nikeratos, who travels to Syracuse (then a Greek city) and accidentally becomes involved with the city state's turbulent politics.
But even so Dion is not likely to be named as the successor over Dionysius' own son, nor (with his suspicious involvement with the foreign "sophist" Plato) popular with other powerful figures in the Syracusan court.The combination of theatre and politics works well.
I think Renault thus manages to balance the desire (or even need) of a writer of historical fiction to have her characters partake in the great events of history as they have come down to us, and even to hob-nob with some of the most famous personages of the day (Plato, and both Dionysios I and II, tyrants of Syracuse, are examples of such people that Niko meets in this book) without making the connection seem too forced (at least in my opinion).
He carries with him a mask of Apollo, an old relic from the past as he travels performing (and carrying secret messages for political leaders).Niko is such a wonderful fictional character; through his eyes we see city-states, ideas of democracy vs.
But being an actor in ancient Greece gave him the ability to freely travel between cities, bringing him straight into a the middle of a political drama which he never wanted to be a part (he never claimed to know anything about politics which is great for us because we get everything explained).
This is one of my favorite books of all time...re-reading it now and loving it yet again...
After an impressive performance at Delphi, Niko meets Dion of Syracuse, who is a distinguished politician and a dear friend of Plato's, the inspiration for Plato's philosopher-king.
Nearly all of her characters are historical (with the exception of Nikeratos himself), and her fictional portrayal of them chimes beautifully with their historical selves.In The Mask of Apollo, Renault's use of an actor as the viewpoint character is brilliant.
Niko understands how a crowd works, because he plays to them all the time, whereas the politicians, who ought to know, really don't.
Yet Niko also understands what the politician-philosophers are trying to do, even as they can't quite accomplish it.
In one quintessentially Greek moment from this superb novel, the narrator recalls the story of a father of two Olympic champions. At the moment when his sons are crowned, the crowd chants to him to "Die now," because, of course, no moment of his life could ever again be so good.So, in finishing The Mask of Apollo am I tempted to chant to myself: "Give up reading historical fiction now." 'Nuff said.
A Pagan book if ever there was one. Mary Renault confronts the joy of life and the joy of philosophy in the life of Niko, a Greek actor, who gets to meet Plato and his Academy, philosopher king Dion of Syracusa and , in the end, young Alexander the Great.Packed with adventure and very deep at the same time, I consider it to be one of Renault's masterpieces.
A wonderful book. Mary Renault is as good as your own personal time machine (if you do not mind only ever traveling to classical Greece). She is also a total whiz at taking you into a specialized world -- in this case, the theater -- and making its thrills and excitements your own.
My first venture into non-Alexander Mary Renault. I can't help but be sucked in by the first page. Something about her work... it just takes you by the hand and gently leads you into the world and you never ever want to leave. At least, I don't.
I read The Praise Singer, my first foray into Renault's novels of Greece, in September last year and loved it.
Having chosen such a character for her novel allows Renault to travel all over the Mediterranean and to explore life much more fully than if she had selected someone more conventional like a soldier, politician, or philosopher.
Although Renault takes liberties with some of the historical details that we do not or cannot know, the book smacks of reality and seems to capture the spirit of the age better than any dry history could.
Luckily for us in addition to teaching us Latin our teacher imbued in us an interest in learning about everything classical that grew for me into more reading and led me to the discovery of Mary Renault and her historical fiction set in ancient Greece.
The narrator, Nikeratos is a successful professional actor, and Renault vividly evokes the technologies and traditions of classic Greek Tragedy.
It is Renault's seamless blend of real historical characters within her fictional stories that makes her novels come alive for me.
I would recommend Mary Renault's novels of Ancient Greece to anyone who has an interest in our classical Greek heritage.
Following the life of actor Nikeratos and his various adventures touring the classical world, in particular his friendship with Dion of Syracuse and Plato the philosopher as they try to forge a Republic in Syracuse.
It's odd, though that the tone of a book about art and which views art as a mode of worship of he gods, should feel so pragmatic and grounded in the craft of the actor and the mechanisms and logistics of production and touring, in contrast with the Theseus novels, about heroism and kingship, which have an almost dream-like quality to them with the feeling that of the divine ready to manifest around every rock and tree.
After that I quickly gobbled up all of Renault's works of historical fiction set in Ancient Greece.
I definitely got the feeling from Renault's novels that she had two historical passions: Alexander the Great and Plato, and the idea that the first was the embodiment of the second's ideal--or would have been, had he had a chance to shape him.
I'd probably recommend The King Must Die as an introduction to Renault, then read the sequel, The Last of the Wine and the Alexander works before hitting this one--but this is definitely a pleasure.
Renault's classic tale gives us Greek actor Nikeratos, who participates in and observes the fall of the tyrants of Syracuse.
He meets Plato and many of his followers, becomes a trusted friend, and an acolyte of sorts to Plato's "ideal king," Dion of Syracuse.
Dion was the late Archon Dionysios' only trusted aide.
When the old man dies suddenly, Dion attempts to guide Dionysios the Younger to lead according to Plato's teachings.
The sad progress of this attempt makes for great drama that has nothing to do with the theater.Meanwhile, Renault shares her vision of what the Greek theater was like in its golden age, based on historical research, studies of the surviving bits and pieces of ancient theater machinery and the few records of the era.
This tells the story of Dion of Syracuse [philosopher from Plato's Academy] as seen through the eyes of Nikeratos [Niko], a tragic actor.
Making her protagonist an actor, Renault gave Niko the freedom to travel all over and comment on the action and people he meets.
Many of them are historical; in the last chapter he meets young Alexander and Hephaestios.
We do meet the philosopher Plato, but any of his ideas given are in a disjointed manner.
Niko's travels involve him in politics and he witnesses the rise of Dion as tyrant of Syracuse.
Many years ago a theater history professor recommended this to me, and I have just now gotten around to reading it. Very enjoyable book for anyone with an interest in theatre or classical civilization. The author creates a credible ancient world and builds her story of political intrigue out of real people and events; her protagonist is just alien enough in his assumptions and attitudes to make a believable citizen of a world far from our own, while being just modern enough to allow the reader to identify with him.
Interesting but not very engaging book. It might be caused by POV character who is an actor. This allows to describe Hellenistic culture from quite fresh angles, but overall it proved to be a bit hard to get into. I was reading the book very much because of Plato, but he is there always somewhere out of reach or saying something that the actor does not understand so it is not included in the text. What a pity...
This is a fascinating look at theatre in ancient Greece and the part actors played in the politics of the time. I also dig the way the author writes about the sexual mores of the era. Same sex relationships were fairly commonplace and that is how they are portrayed in the novel. A bold move for a writer in the fifties.
When the noise was pretty well over, Dion gave orders that all should go to their quarters to prepare for their march, and, having refreshed themselves, come ready armed to their rendezvous in the place where they now were, resolving that very night to attempt the rescue.Here is Ms. Renault’s version of that same speech and narrative:"I have called you here so that you can decide what you think best for you.
I give this two stars for its incredible historical accuracy and it's uniqueness in what it chooses to focus on for content matter. However it only gets two stars because the writing style is so dry and tedious. It takes forever to wade through it all. Plus not a whole lot happens plot wise and yet things still get pretty confusing.
Another book where messy history becomes difficult to turn into a narrative, this one follows the life of Plato and his student Dion from the outsider viewpoint of an Athenian actor.
Lots of awesome historical details about the Athenian theater and the politics at the time.
The constant back-and-forth between Athens and Sicily starts to feel almost comically random after a while, and Dion's character development is sometimes hard to follow, I think, as he moves from an idealist to a despot.
I might have understood it better if I had a stronger grounding in the historical events of the time, though.
The story is narrated through the eyes and heart of a renowned actor during a period of declining power and influence for the Athenian Greeks.
The book was a slow start for me because so much of the early chapters focused on classical Greek theater and its leading proponents.
Once that was past, the pace of the story picked up dramatically.
These plot elements and the author's descriptive passages more than made up for the slow start.
If you enjoy reading historical fiction set in the days of classical Greece, I highly recommend "The Mark of Apollo." The book is well-worth a 4-star rating.
Mary Renault is a favorite of mine and I couldn't remember if I had read this one way-back-when. I don't think I have - it didn't strike any memory chords and I'd like to think I haven't gotten so old, I'd forget the books I read in my youth.The story is told from an actor's point of view during the waning years of Plato's Academy and follows the experiment of democracy in Syracuse after the overthrow of a dictatorship. Although written decades ago, it resonates in today's political milieu. A fine story, beautifully told.
This was an amazing story, woven with rich detail that made me feel like I was in Ancient Greece, experiencing the journeys of an actor. And an interesting one at that. Culture and fiction are blended perfectly in an elegant story. I ABSOLUTELY LOVED IT!!
Certainly not great literature but fun and informative to read. What a great time in history: Sophocles-Plato-Aristotle-Alexander and of course Dion of Syracuse. A classic liberal of the really old school. And doomed of course.
Reread this after many years, and loved it as much this time as before. Smile.
(Because Jenny says this is the best!)
La máscara de Apolo relata los vestigios de un actor en la Antigua Grecia, la evolución de su carrera profesional y el desarrollo de los acontecimientos políticos (en especial, en Atenas y Siracusa), haciendo siempre alusiones a los dioses del Olimpo pero sin tener estos un papel en la escena.Me parece muy lograda la manera que tuvo Renault de aunar una historia narrada con acontecimientos históricos.
Sin embargo, en este libro, los personajes están muy bien delineados y construidos, con una chispa de humor que aliviaba el peso dramático de la historia.Aunque he de decir que esperaba leer más sobre la carrera como actor de Nicérato.
I was introduced to Mary Renault while I was abed with a serious bout of Hepatitis B for the month of July in 1973.
A friend- my partner of the time- who was not sick- brought me a copy of Mary Renault's "Mask of Apollo" and gently recommended it to me as something he thought I would like.I did like it- this fictional story of an Athenian actor in a transitional historic period in ancient Greece.
