https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/5060378-the-girl-who-played-with-fire
All rapists and violent sex offenders should have these words tattooed on their stomachs: "I AM A SADISTIC PIG, A PERVERT AND A RAPIST".
Repeat offenders will be tattooed on their foreheads.
a taser (a 50,000 volts jolt to the crotch will incapacitate even the burliest of men).9.
"Men could be as big as a house and made of granite, but they all had balls in the same place".
A crucial fact to remember in a fight, especially if you are fighting a 300 pounds, six foot six giant with hands as big as frying pans.POTENTIAL SPOILER 10.
(A-) 82% | Very GoodNotes: An entirely different mood, pace and atmosphere than its predecessor, it thrives off the strength of a single character.
The first book was for the most part plot-driven.
So was Lisbeth, although she wasn't the main focus.
The story has now turned character-driven with Lisbeth as the protagonist.
Seriously, you could go down to the store and decorate the same way if you wanted, that's the level of description he gave.
This goes on for a staggering 172 pages.Mystery thriller?
This book wasn't a mystery whatsoever for me.
It was more bloated than a rotting whale.The Girl With the Dragon Tattoo was a better book.
I wanted to throw this one against the wall a few times.
Stieg Larsson doesn't really do subtle. If he thinks an issue is important, he will shout it from the rooftops. With a megaphone. But since he is condemning misogyny and violence towards women, I'm ok with that. "Salander was the woman who hated men who hate women."  This book, much more than its predecessor, focuses on the tiny-but-tough Lisbeth Salander. We learn quite a bit about the fascinating and horrific backstory that led to Salander developing her unique, defensive, prickly personality.
"Salander was the woman who hated men who hate women." 
This book, much more than its predecessor, focuses on the tiny-but-tough Lisbeth Salander.
And that's why I liked this otherwise far from perfect book.Yet again, Larsson determinedly exposes the unlikable aspects of society - misogyny and adherence to judgmental standards and gender norms that are ever-present even in the European paradise of Sweden.
This is reflected first and foremost in the awful treatment that Salander receives, but also in the treatment of Lisbeth's mother, Sonia Bodig, and the helpless and easily ignored by the society victims of sex trafficking.
And therein lies what Stieg Larsson is trying to tell us with his challenging protagonist -- context is everything.Larsson isn't simply writing a compelling series of thrillers (and I haven't been so locked into a book, as I was with GWPWF, for a very long time).
Very short review due to the glitches on GR.
This is the second book in the trilogy.
The book bogs down a little but it's all good.
Lisbeth is back and doing her own thing.
Lisbeth has been away from Mikael for some time.
But, they come back together when Lisbeth is accused of killing that jerk rapist of hers.
*****Spoiler*****Lisbeth looks into a sex trafficking ring that Mikael is involved in and finds out some things about her past she didn't want to know.
But this almost gets her killed.
Thank God Mikael was able to find her!
He had come.He smelled of aftershave.She hated the smell of him.He...observed her for a long time.She hated his silence.Then he spoke to her. He had a dark, clear voice that stressed, pedantically, each word.She hated his voice.He laid the back of a moist hand on her forehead and ran his fingers along her hairline in a gesture that was probably intended to be friendly.She hated his touch.  Lisbeth Salander is simply unforgettable.  I read the first book in this trilogy the year it was published
But most of all you’re sexual--you like sex and you don’t care about what gender, You’re an entropic chaos factor.”ENTROPIC CHAOS FACTOR, sounds mathematical and math does play a role in this novel, but my version of what Mimmi meant by that statement is that Salander is a person who will parachute in out of the blue, shag you until your nucleus becomes a comet, and then leave before you’ve had time to light your first coitus joint.
If Larsson ate as many Billy’s Pan Pizza as Salander does in the book that might be the doughy rope that squeezed his heart.
Flickan som lekte med elden = The Girl Who Played with Fire (Millennium, #2), Stieg Larsson The Girl Who Played with Fire (Swedish: Flickan som lekte med elden) is the second novel in the best-selling Millennium series by Swedish writer Stieg Larsson.
The novel is formally divided into a prologue followed by four parts.
Part 1 – Irregular Equations.
بلومکویست که به بی‌گناهی سالاندر باور دارد، به جستجو و پژوهش در این‌باره می‌پردازد.
در این میان، خود سالاندر وارد یک بازی کشنده‌ ی موش و گربه می‌شود، که او را مجبور به رویارویی با گذشته‌ ی تاریکش می‌کند.
Lisbeth freaking Salander, she may actually be one of the best, and most complex characters I've ever had the pleasure of reading about.
It's a more personal book, and it cements the core of this series, which is Lisbeth.
Such a peculiar protagonist, I feel constantly intrigued by her and I always have to expect the unexpected from her.Up until half of the book, nothing extraordinary really happens, it's just plot building up but there's lots of Salander, so it's interesting and gripping to read.
In the entirety of the book, Blomkvist and Salander hardly ever meet.
Español - EnglishLisbeth ha desaparecido, se ha tomado un tiempo para superar lo de Mikael.Mikael esta escribiendo un gran reportaje sobre el tráfico y la prostitución.Sus caminos se cruzarán nuevamente...----Lisbeth has disappeared, she has taken time to overcome Mikael.Mikael is writing a great story about trafficking and prostitution.Their paths will cross again...
Book Review  4 of 5 stars to The Girl Who Played with Fire, the second book in the Millenium thriller series written in 2006 by Stieg Larsson. Although I am very fond of this book, it wasn't quite as good as the first one, The Girl with the Dragon Tattoo. But it's a very strong follow-up sequel worth reading. It packs an even larger punch as far as violence and drama, as well as brings out the sexual chemistry and tension between Mikhail and Lisbeth. But this book is all about Lisbeth... and i
Book Review
4 of 5 stars to The Girl Who Played with Fire, the second book in the Millenium thriller series written in 2006 by Stieg Larsson.
Although I am very fond of this book, it wasn't quite as good as the first one, The Girl with the Dragon Tattoo.
But this book is all about Lisbeth...
Despite the crazy that comes with her, she's been through the ringer more than once.
What's great about these books is the intensity they bring to the entire story.
here's the scoop: I read A LOT.
Many thanks to their original creators.[polldaddy poll=9729544][polldaddy poll=9719251]
And what does Lisbeth's situation have to do with an expose of the Swedish sex trade two of the murder victims were working on?I was afraid The Girl Who Played With Fire would suffer from the sophomore jinx.
I'm pleased to say it did not.Larsson must have figured out he had a good thing in Lisbeth Salander while working on The Girl With The Dragon Tattoo because she's the primary focus of this, the sequel.
Still, once I started reading them, they kind of took over my life for a few days.The Girl Who Played With Fire is, in a way, an exploration of Lisbeth Salander's past.
This is some of the best crime fiction that exists, in my opinion, and Lisbeth Salander remains one of my favourite fictional characters of all time.
The plot of this novel is clever and the diverse set of characters fascinating.
The only reason why this novel is not just as good as the first one, is because it contains some passages that at times seemed dwelling and somewhat repetitive.
That being said, the conclusion makes up for it and also contains one of my favourite fictional scenes.
Read this, also even though you're not that much into crime fiction, like me ;)
And, although, it would not be true in the least to say I didn’t go next door to look at my dead father because I couldn’t put the book down, the fact is that people kept coming in to talk to me, like…I don’t know exactly….but maybe like they thought that this would create some link between me and whatever was happening next door, like maybe they were worried I’d feel left out and what I wanted to say to them was ‘Can’t you see I’m reading?’ ‘If I miss you all, honestly, I’ll drop by next door, I will, really.’ I didn’t, doubtless you will be relieved to hear.

He has gone too far, and Lisbeth Salander is no longer a fully credible person; also, the puzzle isn't as satisfying as in the first one.Start geek-rant: as a former mathematician, I was annoyed by his sloppiness concerning Fermat's Last Theorem.
To start off with, he misquotes it several times.
And the whole idea that Lisbeth is able to solve it on her own in just a few months, with no formal mathematical training, is cheap.
But, before I get too critical, I must admit that I couldn't put it down, and that the main characters, especially Lisbeth, are wonderful creations.
This one it starts off with a bang and you know immediately from the first page it is going to be just as good if not better.Blomkvist takes a back seat here and Salander takes the lead.
He still goes on his mini-rants but they're not quite so prominent as last time and fit much more into the story.I enjoy the straight forward style of writing - obviously this is through a translation of Swedish to English, but it feels different to other things I have read.
Again, as with the first it feels very much as if Larsson has put his life and soul into writing these books and you can feel that emanating from the pages.
And in Lisbeth Salander, Larsson has created the antithesis to all of that hyper-feminine-but-I'll-kick-your-ass-and-look-good-doing-it bullshit.
But if you cross her, you can expect things in your life to go very wrong very quickly.The other genius thing Larsson has done with Salander in this novel is that she's beginning to evolve.
O_o  O_o O_oهو اللي انا قريته دا حقيقي؟يعني فيه واحد كدا عاديمسك ورقة وقلم او اي الة طباعةوبدا يكتب 
This book was pretty slow getting started, but when it did, it did it with stupendous style.
Lisbeth Salander ran the show in this one, which I really loved.
I liked Lisbeth in the first book, but in this one, we see more sides to her than ever before.
Let me put this plainly, I want to slurp freshly brewed coffee and scoff Billy pan pizza's with this woman, even if she is a cold and calculated pain in the ass at times.
What I especially liked about this book, was all the weird twists and turns.
At this moment, I need more Lisbeth Salander!
Larsson's second novel about Lisbeth Salander, or about MIkhail Blomkvist of Millennium Magazine, either as it may be, was a suspenseful gem.
A little slow to get started, this one lacked the steady momentum of the first, but the second half more than makes up for the inconsistent and morose first half.
Larrson was immensely talented and it is a great shame that we can look forward to no more novels from him.
As Blomkvist was the center of attention in the first, Salander is definitely the subject here and we get to know her story in great, journalistic depth.
“Not him too.” “Not him too what?” “Another admirer of Fröken Salander.” Why yes, I am too! Lisbeth has earned herself another admirer. Well, not completely but mostly.This was a BR with the Lisbeth Fanatic who promised me a mindfuck but unfortunately I didn’t get that and then the said fanatic disappeared soon after we commenced the journey got busy reading! ;)Happy now? :PThis is a hard book to review without giving anything out and since I myself haven’t read the last part, I can’t say what
Well, not completely but mostly.This was a BR with the Lisbeth Fanatic who promised me a mindfuck but unfortunately I didn’t get that and then the said fanatic disappeared soon after we commenced the journey got busy reading!
“I don’t know why I didn’t say goodbye.”“I’ll tell you why: because you don’t give a shit about other people,” Armansky said matter-of-factly.Salander bit her lower lip.
When I was reading the first book and the good people of GR asked me how I felt about Lis, I told them she reminds me a little too much of a real life person I know and that can be a bad thing.
Way beyond my comfort level.To be fair, once I got about half-way through the book - after all the characters' sexual preferences were clearly established - it did become a page-turner as I raced to find out the ending.If you like books with lots of character sketches, this might work for you.
I was tempted to get out a notepad and sketch out all the characters and their relationships, as I kept getting the Swedish characters' names mixed up.I have not read the prior book in this series: The Girl With the Dragon Tattoo.
I LOVED THIS 2nd book by Larsson. The "Tattoo" Girl (The Girl With The Dragon Tattoo), is a wonderful character --even better in `this` book! Keeps getting better......I've already ordered the 3rd book from the United Kingdom. It comes out Oct. 1st.
I LOVED THIS 2nd book by Larsson. The "Tattoo" Girl (The Girl With The Dragon Tattoo), is a wonderful character --even better in `this` book! Keeps getting better......I've already ordered the 3rd book from the United Kingdom. It comes out Oct. 1st.
This week I picked up The Girl Who Played With Fire and stepped back into Lisbeth’s world, with a bang.This book is even better than the first one, perhaps because you already have a feeling of knowing who a least two of these characters are, Blomkvist and Salander.
It wasn’t in the plan, and I don’t really have the time because I am supposed to be finishing my challenges, but I am going right on to the next book in the series, because how can I sleep at night without knowing where Lisbeth goes from here?
Wow! Such an intense story. Can't wait to read the third book because this cliffhanger is crazy
She couldn't take a week off when she's there!" "There are just some days in the month when a woman diplomat wouldn't be able to do her job." "I wouldn't watch women's sports because women aren't as strong as men, but I guess the clothes are hot." "But, if we hire her, she'll probably want more time off because she has a kid, so she won't be able to do her job." "Sure one 'woman' did that, but she isn't like real women, and she's probably a lesbian."It is easy to internalize that thinking, even though it obviously makes very little sense.
In the second of his three volume series (well, at least it was three until Larsson's heirs hired someone to make a fourth from his notes) centered on the remarkable researcher and hacker Lisbeth Salandar and journalist Mikael Blomkvist, Larsson has delivered a totally engrossing page-turner.
It is not a pretty picture.Stieg Larsson - from famourauthors.orgSalandar, back in Sweden after an extended sabbatical, has grown somewhat from the character in The Girl with the Dragon Tattoo, but remains hard-core, justifiably paranoid, blessed with almost magical techie powers (maybe a bit too magical), and an impressive command of several forms of combat.
There is ample description of our titular heroine in the first third of "The Girl Who Played with Fire." Lisbeth Salander is composing and arranging a new life for herself while still maintaining the baggage left over from her early years (tons of child abuse) and the occurrences of Book #1.
Lisbeth is totally more interesting than Mikael.
Also good--the anti-Macho sentiment and reversal of roles (in this case--the girl with Aperger's is smarter, more agile and even richer than most of the human population) which will be undoubtedly be scrutinized furthermore in the concluding installment.
Blomkvist is busy himself since recent events have made him an extremely famous journalist and the magazine he co-owns, Millennium, is still riding high based on his work.As Salander returns to Sweden, she’s unaware that an old enemy is plotting against her.
A handful of friends, including Blomkvist, are convinced she’s innocent and try to help, but Salander is far more concerned with getting revenge than clearing her name.As with The Girl With The Dragon Tattoo, the main appeal of this book is Salander.
And to anyone interested in these books, I’d definitely recommend reading The Girl With The Dragon Tattoo first because reading this one completely reveals the entire plot of that one.
