https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/626159.The_Game_of_Life_and_How_to_Play_It
I’m as surprised as you are. I’m not sure I believe all of these short finance stories – they sound too good to be true – but this nonfiction piece does motivate me to become a better, fairer person and stop blaming other people for the bad stuff that happens to me. It’s very preachy though, so not for everyone.
My Mom originally found this book at a random restaurant. She fell in love with and gave a copy to many people. Fifteen years later life was kicking me in the pants and I saw the book on her shelf and read it for the first time. For me this book is life transforming. I continue to read it as I need to and I have memorized specific mediations. I hope this book will bring the same peace to you as it brought to me.
These books claim that the opposite is also true, and can therefore imagine your way to wealth, true love, and happiness.I started reading The Secret back when it was on Oprah and I found it so absurd that I barely made it through ten pages.
It felt like a joke, or worse, and infomercial for a cult.The Game of Life is less simplistic, and relies more on the Christian faith to explain why manifestation works (Scovel-Shinn references a lot of Biblical passages).
No one can live an easy life, no matter how much they pray for one.One good thing that comes from thinking in the way these books suggest is that it probably makes you a happier person.
Everyone should read this book at least once in their life time. I have read this book and re read this book a dozen times. Food for thought!!
A fantastic summary of some essential principles. Excerpts :-----------“The imaging faculty plays a leading part in the game of life. … What man images, sooner or later, externalizes in his affairs.”“Fear must be erased from the consciousness… We must substitute fear with faith, for fear is only inverted faith. It is faith in evil, instead of good... Fear is misdirected energy which must be redirected - or transmuted - into faith.”“The object of the game of life is to seek clearly one’s good and
I now make my perfect records from the Christ within : the records of health, wealth, love, and perfect self-expression.' ”“Death and life are in the power of the tongue.” (Proverbs 18:21)“If one asks for success, and is prepared for failure, he will get the situation he prepared for.”“Man must prepare for the thing he asked for when there isn’t the slightest sign of it in sight.”“Before ye call, I shall answer.” (Isaiah 65:24)“Every great work, every big accomplishment has been brought into manifestation through holding to the vision.”“...You lost your temper at the bank, and therefore your power."“A person should not hesitate to ask for help if he sees himself wavering.”“No man can fail if some one person sees him as successful.
I don't know what I was expecting, but not this. I don't even believe in God really, and I wouldn't ask Jesus for stuff. But when I read this book, all I could think was YES. YES. THIS IS HOW IT IS. Amazing stuff, I will be reading this over and over. This little book has some really profound answers and I wish I'd learned these lessons a little earlier. No matter, I'm learning them now. I believe in the Universe.
The book offers a very positive perspective. A very easy read that can be read time and time again for consistent motivation and in order to help stay focused.
it is a very small god, made in our own self-serving image, who can be made to do the bidding of our petty desires: the gimmee-gimmee god.however, i do believe in grace and in being open to grace and goodness; and i certainly believe in right behavior, esp.
this book, on first blush, seemed to focus totally on the power of an individual -- through thoughts, words, and actions -- to manifest good things in their life ...
and of course the not-so-good things that happen in everyone's life, which is where i really object to manifestation's big-gumball-machine-in-the-sky concept.
case closed.so, imo, manifestation is not right-thinking as zen buddhism defines right thinking.
Although Shinn uses a lot of biblical references to prove her arguments, I believe that her philosophies can be applied to all people with different faiths.
She uses a lot of real life examples to prove her points which I loved since most people can relate to the examples she referred to.
I recommend this book to anyone who seriously wants to change their outlook about life.
In my opinion, Shinn successfully communicates in her book that the power of changing our lives is within us.
I learnt nothing from this book!Firstly, I have no doubt in positive thinking, but it's not all about positive thoughts.
So if we want something we have to WORK in order to have it, not sitting and hoping that the thing we are asking for is going to be right in front of us.I believe that I have to move forward and be strong after breakup, not waiting and praying that my ex is going to change his mind and come back (like the woman who waited her husband after he left her and went with another woman).And one last thing, I MAY forgive people who hurt me in the past, but I will never "bless them"!!So yes, this was the worst book I've ever read.
The idea, supported by many examples in the book, is that that you attract what you concentrate upon.
Otherwise, you will let your focus drift more toward your worries, doubts and fears - and then you'll manifest those things in your life simply because you're thinking about them.
What I did not like is that both books focus on the monetary aspect of getting what you want, probably because nothing has changed in the nearly 100 years since GAME OF LIFE was written.
What a load of old tosh!I know many people may disagree & I DO NOT MEAN TO INSULT, but.......I did not like this book at all - admittedly I was a bit skeptical about it from the beginning, but I wanted to give it a go, so I gave it my best shot!The 3 best things about this book is that it's short and sweet, well written & the authors viewpoint/argument is easy to comprehend!
After reading this book, I have no intention or desire anytime soon to read 'The Secret' by Rhonda Byrne; but who knows, 'never say never'!If you read this book, I hope you enjoy it, far more than I did & you benefit from reading it?Happy Reading!
I can understand publishing a version in which non-gender-specific references are represented with feminine pronouns, rather than the all-masculine pronouns commonly used in the formal grammar of Ms. Shinn's early-20th-century day; but this version goes a step further and transforms ALL male references to female--even when the anecdote was originally about a man.I think this wasn't the best idea, for two reasons:1: You'd be hard-put to find a woman on Earth who doesn't have SOME males in her life.
The game of life and how to play itch 1- Most people consider life a battle, but it is not a battle it is a game.
It is a game however it can not be played successfully without the knowledge of spiritual law.
Ch 5- the law of carma and the law of forgiveness : man recieve only that which he gives.
The game of life is the game of boomerangs.
Man thoughts, deeds and words return to him sooner or latery with outstandings accuracy.
Ch 7- if you fear a lion, you must run toward him, because the fear or lion will disapear.
Wow this book was a timely gift to myself, read it in exactly 24 hrs and feel reborn. Loved it, it just makes sense. Read with open heart and mind. "Divine love dissolves and dissipates all wrong conditions in my mind, body and affairs, Divine love is the most powerful chemical in the universe..."
How long must one remain in the dark?Until one can see in the dark. The Game of Life and How to Play It is a good enough new age manifestation book. There are places which are striking and make sense. But there is also too much simplification that makes manifestation look less like a science.
I still can't believe this book was written 80 years ago. Shinn was definitely before her time. I love the fact she used examples to help you grasp the biblical content. This book reinforced fearless faith, opening ones heart, an allowing the superconscious mind to lead us.
با این پیشزمینه که عمیقا تلقی خرافه از چنین مباحثی داشتم، این کتاب رو شروع کردم. با اینکه عقاید کلی من بعد از این کتاب تغییری نکرد ولی نمیتونم منکر بشم که بعضی قسمتها واقعا ضمیر ناخودآگاهم رو مشغول کرده. (مثلا قانون عدم مقاومت)نویسنده موفقیت در بازی زندگی رو با چند قانون تشریح میکنه و با ارائه مثالهای متعدد نهایت تلاشش رو میکنه که محتوا رو ملموستر بکنه.در کل بد نبود ولی به نظرم برای افراد سختگیر که انعطاف پذیری کمتری در تفکرات و ایدهها دارند، میتونه کسلکننده باشه.
با این پیش‌زمینه که عمیقا تلقی خرافه از چنین مباحثی داشتم، این کتاب رو شروع کردم. با اینکه عقاید کلی من بعد از این کتاب تغییری نکرد ولی نمیتونم منکر بشم که بعضی قسمت‌ها واقعا ضمیر ناخودآگاهم رو مشغول کرده. (مثلا قانون عدم مقاومت)نویسنده موفقیت در بازی زندگی رو با چند قانون تشریح می‌کنه و با ارائه مثال‌های متعدد نهایت تلاشش رو میکنه که محتوا رو ملموس‌تر بکنه.در کل بد نبود ولی به نظرم برای افراد سختگیر که انعطاف پذیری کمتری در تفکرات و ایده‌ها دارند، میتونه کسل‌کننده باشه.
The book reads so well, easily understood, lucid in style, practical and applicable in every way.
Our Lord commands me to "ask" before I can receive.
Instead, I should see myself as God sees me, an honorable child of His. Because I have faith in how the Lord works, I am choosing not to be disturbed by circumstances, by what "appears".
I unite myself to God's Divine Mind.
Your will be done in my life, dear Lord, as You and I are one, and I unite myself with your Divine purpose and will.
The Love of God abolishes anything contrary to Love in my life.
Absolutely horrible.
I only give this book one star because zero is not an option.
Imagine that Deepak Chopra wanted to write a new book that (mis)quoted the Bible at least once every page.
So he studied a years worth of Jessi Duplantis and Creflo Dollar sermons for his research.
The book you can imagine he would have written is remarkably similar to this nonsense I have the pleasure of reviewing.
I won't go so far as to say Florence Shinn is a complete heretic.
I will say that this is the first time in years that I actually did not finish a book I started.
There are bits of hidden and isolated wisdom in this book.
I like the intention of the book, which is to change one's attitude or outlook, but the majority of this book is total nonsense with zero scientific or historical backing.
It's examples are ill described, and all follow the same structure.
"For example: a person had a problem.
This person applied said advice.
Eventually the problem was solved because of said advice." Whether the advice be thinking something or saying something.
It is as if a very hopeful, and creative, person who read the bible once through is proposing some new world telepathic wisdom with fallacies for examples.
I can see this as " the secret " breakdown I love how when the world gives you something you should feel that you deserve it How when you want your mind to believe something you makes it into a song" I have a wonderful business in a wonderful way And I give a wonderful clothing for a wonderful pay "
Repeat after me “I will do wonderful work for wonderful pay.” And within just a few weeks of saying and believing this, you will get a big fat raise. This is the divine right. If only it was that easy.
Felt like reading "The Secret" or one of Joseph Murphy books...
This is a great book for anyone looking to open up their way of thinking. Good for those who are Christians and believers in God's good works.
Според мен "Играта на живота и как да я играем" не е лоша книга, просто повтаря информация, която вече съм чела на безброй места и съм запомнила. Оценката ми, ако не бях запозната с предоставената информация (малко вероятно), щеше да е много по-висока. А сега я връщам на рафта като поредната книга, която обяснява, че ако мислим положително и даряваме другите с любов и истини, то това ще получаваме и ние.
Either you have faith or you don'tAlthough some might argue that faith lies in the heart, much of this book begs to differ. It seems faith is in the mind. If we believe good things will come to us, then they’ll come. If we know we deserve that promotion and act like we already got it, then it’s ours. Whether it’s work goals, love or even self-growth, the power of visualization wins. The reason why I gave it such a low rating is because of the repetition of these facts. Over and over again…
I really enjoyed reading this book. I loved how the author wrote about the concepts in a way that anyone could grasp and I love all the examples of people’s stories that she shared. This book confirms what I’ve always knew about listening to gut and that still small voice inside; when I was a child but never knew exactly what is was.
I listened to the audiobook of this and found it so insightful. I'll be listening to it again and again, I'm sure!
Good book-Will read again.
