https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/33454.Bloodsucking_Fiends
I discovered Christopher Moore him about two years ago, and since then I'm pretty sure I've either read (or listened to) everything he's written.
Let's say he was such a ass than when I asked him to sign a book, instead he just hauled off and kicked me in my privatest of personal places.
Then I wouldn't buy his book.
Next time someone recommends a book to you, ask them, "Would you still love this book if the author kicked you in the nuts?" If they say, "Yes" you know that book must be something special.
C. Thomas Flood lands in the city by the Bay, fresh from the farming fields of Indiana, determined to write a great American novel. He rents a cot from a Chinese entrepreneur named Wong and finds himself living with five other Chinese gentlemen all named Wong as well. The Wongs are excited because they have recently learned that it is legal for two men to marry in San Francisco. Thomas has something they really, really lust for...American citizenship. Needless to say living with five men who lo
Needless to say living with five men who look on you as the golden prize becomes a little uncomfortable.
Marry me Tommy...no marry me...no me.Thomas's fortunes seem to be on the rise when he lands a job on the graveyard shift of the local Safeway.
She is a vampire, which when she tells him is a little unsettling, but then she has more sex with him.
Sure the biting is a little painful and weird, but she's having sex with him!
Life, unfortunately, for Thomas can not all be about sex.
Reality intrudes in a big way when the Vampire that turned Jody decides that Thomas must die.
Despite this lack of official recognition, the fine and noble tradition of 'skidding the buzzard' is practiced nightly by supermarket night crews all over the nation."Christopher Moore takes on the "vampire genre" and it's not his best effort.
She would have eaten a half gallon of ice cream and stayed up all night thinking about what she was going to do with her life.
It was as if he was mocking the sub-genre of vampire novels by his one-dimensional characters and thin plot.Or maybe it is just a sub-par effort.I don't think I'll be picking up the other books in this series.
3 stars from me. Silly, funny, kinda gross vampire story. I liked it. It's an easy read. I may just seek out the next in the series to find out what happens to everyone. Just what I needed after the heavy and serious book I read right before this.
Terminada la relectura. Es un estilo que para mí es un referente. Cómico, surrealista, fresco y divertido. Quizás no sea un cinco estrellas pero se lo pongo por lo que significa para mí y por lo que me sorprendió en su momento. Y además a Jody y a Tommy se les coge cariño.
Like all of Moore's novels I have read, this one is hilarious. Could this be the first post-modern vampire book? Romanticism has been either thrown in the corner of the closet or all together defenestrated, this is nuts and bolts of how this immortal stuff works and mythbusting what doesn't. Really, really fun.
As I read Bloodsucking Fiends and, a while back, Lamb: The Gospel According to Biff, Christ's Childhood Pal, I kept asking myself, "Where do all his ideas come from?" This story is both creative and funny.
It is different to any other vampire story that you have read, or will ever read, unless somebody plagiarises Moore.Tommy is the leader of a gang of oddball supermarket shelf-stackers.
Perhaps that will come in the next book in the series, You Suck.Sadly, my to-read shelf is groaning and beckoning me to pick up the next, fresh volume to relieve some of the weight that she carries.You really MUST make space in your life for Bloodsucking Fiends.
This reminded me of the campy vampire movies I loved as a kid: Buffy the Vampire Slayer - the original with Kristy Swanson and Donald Sutherland (for some fucking reason) - or The Lost Boys.
Ba-dum-dum-tshhh!The foggy California nights, the super cheesy evil vampire, the over-the-top cast of supporting characters, and the ever-present 90s theme of a teenager who relates everything in his life to his favourite movies/books, falling in love with the hot chick who thinks his "weirdness" is just too adorable for words, was eye-twitchingly cliche.
Needing a place to live and someone to do her work by daylight, she finds C.
Being an aspiring writer, Tommy researches vampirism extensively and tests Jody (with and without permission) to find out which aspects of vampirism in the literature are true (turning into a bat, true or false?) while also helping her find a place to live (loft in "fashionable SOMA", no windows in bedroom).
Meanwhile, Jody learns to adapt to her new condition while trying to avoid being framed for murder by the vampire who created her.Add some turkey-bowling grocery store clerks, SF police with a penchant for the dramatic, and a fixture of a SF homeless man (the Emperor, thankfully of SF and not Oakland) and you've got a few hours worth of good fun.
NOTE: PLEASE STOP COMING TO THIS REVIEW ACTING LIKE I AM CONTRACTUALLY OBLIGATED TO FIND THIS BORING ASS BOOK INTERESTING OR FUNNY.
One has to wonder if Moore had any idea what women are like.
Perhaps he lives in some secluded Alaskan tundra; in which case I will forgive him his ignorance.Moore at best seems to be a garbage bag who seems to think that the main character literally being raped (when Flood, only slightly more tolerable than a roomful of colicky infants, has sex with her prone body while she's physically unable to defend herself) is funny.No, rape is not a punch line.
Every summer my amazing library has a summer reading contest.
One of the challenges is to read a book by an author who shares your initials.
So I had an excuse to read a book by the hilarious Christopher Moore.
I love his books and this was no exception.
A woman wakes up in an alley and discovers she's a vampire.
She finds a hick from Nebraska who has moved to NY to become a writer.
It's a match made in heaven, or in the alley behind Safeway Supermarket.
Excellent book, lots of fun!
Like French fries.
Ever since the Great Potato Famine my people get nervous if they don't eat French fries every few days.
"No, I already have an ex-wife." I read that part an actually whispered, "Hochachachacha." Eesh.The other part is the attempt at appearing to be an edgy outsider, sort of an Eddie Izzard type of effect.
Izzard employs jokes involving things you should have learned in 6th grade history class, but people pat themselves on the back for understanding his references as they laugh.
So despite the cheesy jokes and the broad stabs at irony (the big burly detective is gay?!
Very funny vampire novel. I love Moore' tongue in cheek writing.
First of all, the characters are very colorful, the writing is humorous, and the vampire lore just a little different from all the other stuff out there.Jody has been made into a vampire.
Most of the book revolves around Jody's relationship with Tommy.
From the five Wongs who want to marry Tommy for their American citizenship, Scott and Zelda the turtles that Tommy saved from becoming dinner, Jody's mother, the Emperor of San Francisco, the Animals at Safeway, the police homicide detectives, even the elusive vampire sire, all meld together in a funny, sometimes hysterical story.I would recommend this book to people who are looking for some comic relief to their vampire reading lists.
Vampir kitabı okuma yaşımı geçtim diyordum ama çaylak vampir komedisi okumak için asla geç değildir :D.Bir gece uyanıp kendini vampir olarak bulan Jody bu çaylak ve hiçbir şey bilmeyen haliyle, vampir olmayan ama yine de dünyadan bi'haber yaşayan saf oğlanımız Tommy ile karşılaşıyor.
Jody'nin bir eve Tommy'nin ise bir kız arkadaşına ihtiyacı var 😂 İkisi de inanılmaz komik olaylara karışıyorlar, bir yandan da şehirde vampir saldırısı olduğunu gösteren cesetler bulununca başlarını belaya sokuyorlar.
Ölü bir kadın, saf bir adam, çatlak bir kral, manyak bir vampirin başına ne kadar şey gelebilir ki?
Çoooook şey 😂.Neyse, eğer gülüp eğleneceğiniz bir kitap arıyorsanız tavsiyemdir :)
Shall we start by agreeing that Christopher Moore is a literary comedic genius? I’ve had some good times with him. Both  Fool  and  Sacré Bleu: A Comedy d’Art  are amazing, laugh-out-loud funny.  Lamb: The Gospel According to Biff, Christ’s Childhood Pal  is hilarious and irreverent and the perfect gift to give your atheist or agnostic friends (or your theist friends, if they have the right sense of humour!). Everyone once in a while, though I hit on a  Fluke ….That’s the problem with comedy: it
….That’s the problem with comedy: it’s really tough, and even comedic geniuses don’t get it right all the time.Bloodsucking Fiends has a lot going for it.
(For those who have read it: the scenes with the Emperor are all priceless, and the scene where the Safeway crew boards the vampire’s boat and start blowing shit up is high-octane of a calibre I was not expecting in a book like this.) In particular, if you were looking for a more humorous take on the whole “becoming a vampire” plot, then Moore has you covered here.But.Jody and Thomas.
The premise is Jody is a 26 year old urban professional who gets turned into a vampire, only to immediately recruit a 19 year old would-be-writer to be her minion since she can't go out in the day.
This is while she's being stalked by her super-rich creator and Emperor Norton of San Fransisco (mysteriously alive 120 years after his death), who is apparently a vampire hunter now.The book is mostly entertaining but had a few moments where the frat boy humor was less than awesome.
Likewise, there's the not at all horrifying (*sarcasm*) moment when Jody's boyfriend has sex with her while she's asleep as a vampire corpse.
But now that it's concluded, I am thinking I just really like Christopher Moore's twisted sense of humor and storytelling.
The characters where a blast even down to the two dogs and the cranky cops.Regretfully, this story was written quite some time ago as a trilogy but only one audio book is still on the market.
This is UF and although it is called A Love Story, I think that is sarcastic.
I don't think Mr. Moore was even trying to hit the romantic mark but only created a parody.
This is a really fun book that doesn't take anything too seriously.
The humor was a little OTT and not in a good way.
Some authors can pull it off and some fall flat.
This book is an example of the latter.
I didn't laugh a single time through the whole thing.
And the narrator was awful.
Tommy sounded more like a girl than Jody did.
Either that or a prepubescent boy.
Plus he acted like such a wimp most of the time.
I just could not take him seriously.
I much preferred the author's book A Dirty Job. I will not continue this series.
Bloodsucking Fiends  is a flat-out romp. I snickered, chortled, and yes, guffawed through the entire quick read. Moore writes with quirky ease, managing to seamlessly integrate the sport of frozen turkey bowling into a modern vampire tale featuring an actual, non-sparkly, quite threatening vampire lurking in the background of this modern tale of American romance, unlooked-for vampirism, and over-worked cops.The perfect light read for summer, or any time you need a good laugh. Go for it!
This was only my second Christopher Moore novel (and ZOMG I HAVE SO MANY FRIENDS that are all "OH, YOU MUST READ HIM RIGHT MEOW!") so there was a lot of pressure (even if only in my own mind) on me to enjoy this before I'd even started it.I LOVED Lamb, mostly because it reminded me a lot of mid-Tom Robbins.
Not so much.I already own a bunch of his stuff (see previous statement about all the pressure from friends), but I'm not in much of a hurry to read it anymore.I started You Suck the other day, but only got a few pages in before I realized that I just didn't give a damn right then.Maybe I'll be in a better mood the next time I try his work.
*3 and a half stars*A fun read for sure. A bit odd and quirky
This is a light, kind of trashy adult vampire novel.It's hilarious and casual, and not by any means a proper quality novel.
And I don't view it in a negative way!A young woman (Jody) gets turned into a vampire, and she's left alone with tons of cash.She realizes her life has turned upside down, and meets a young man (Tommy) she thought she could use as her little slave to do her bidding during the day.
But other than that it was a fun read!Recommended for adult vampire fans who wants a light read.
As a member of this reading group on Goodreads, it was purely optional for me to pick 12 books to list as things I’d read in 2016.
Perhaps it was Adam Smith’s invisible hand of market forces, as I was unable to get it in audio book form from any of my local libraries, and anyone who likes Moore and audiobooks know why that is worth it, as they are generally delightful, and being a cheapskate, I didn’t want to splurge and buy it on audible.
The other Moore books I’ve read all featured male protagonists without huge roles for females.
As Jody and Tommy settle into together, things take a turn for the worse when the vampire who created Jody starts causing trouble for them.4 Things you liked and/or disliked about it:* I like Christopher Moore.
Moore has fun with the whole vampire thing, which brings me to another thing I liked about the book.* I liked how Moore has Tommy test various vampire legends and stories on Jody to see what is true or not.
Yet there is a Reading Group Guide at the back with discussion questions like this: Everyone has been exposed to vampire lore, either through books, movies or television.
While Christopher Moore strikes me as the type of author more interested in making a point than in telling a story - hence the abrupt and contrived endings of the stories that I read - whatever point he was making back in 1995, when this book was written, is really no longer relevant.

This is NOT the same guy who later wrote Lamb or Angel or Dirty Job…I looked it up: this was his 3rd (1995) of 13 published works.
Lamb, Angel, Dirty Job, Fool, Lust Lizard, Fluke, all meet and exceed the challenge of using seriously unfunny subjects (religion, death, Shakespeare, mental illness, science) by a Master of Humor.
So, what’s up with these other, three Vampire novels (Fiends, You Suck, Bite Me)…maybe the two sequels written later in his career will be more masterful.Specifically, the problems with Fiends are:1.
Clueless Metaphors: No clues in the prose left me sometimes scratching my head, you know, like reading an Emily Dickinson poem.
once I started reading it, I got confused as to whether this was the same book these people were talking about as nothing was making sense and except that i picked up a book thinking to be funny but was not, nothing seemed to be funny .Then I thought perhaps i am not adult enough to understand the humour and so i decided to give it a bit time and I guess that turned out to be a good decision as  the book started slowly but eventually cracking me up in between with simple unsuspecting funny lines and circumstances and especially with its share of goofy characters.But there is this weird thing going around in the book where people are popping in between with their own stories and there is no break from one scene to other and this majorly happens from the second part of the book.
