https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/25669.How_the_Irish_Saved_Civilization
Mind-numbingly written, building up to a nearly inconsequential conclusion on how Irish monks might have helped preserve some of Europe's classic literature. I'm descended from the Irish and was looking forward to a little nationalist pride, but this failed by underdelivering from its title and being nearly unreadable from the first chapter. It hurts even worse to hear that the claims may have been false.
Many reviews say things like "charming" and "pleasant," but I thought it was tedious and meandering.
Also, the author writes like a blow-hard, and interjects things like "Alas!" and "Dear Reader" and "It is up to the reader to decide." That kind of stuff irritates me to no end.Searching for info online, I found references that refute much of what the author posits, including info about St. Patrick.
Granted, the author (in tedious and blow-harded notes) acknowledges that no one can say exactly what happened, but he's disguising mythology and folklore as truth.
It reads as a great argument-in-a-nutshell for the decline of the Roman Empire and the notion that the artistic output of a given culture can be a true reflection of its inner health - or otherwise.
And, finally, his descriptions of the bustling, worldly monastic centers that were translating and transcribing not only the key texts of Christianity, but the epic literature of their native country and the canons of Classical antiquity, are remarkable and inspiring.
The Irish sent abbots and monks all over the pagan and backwater continent and brought Christianity back where it had been lost or never really held influence.
Christ has truly transformed the world from one of vicious, violent, and demonic forces into his advancing kingdom of light and grace.In this way, this book is not simply about the way the "Irish Saved Civilization" but a retelling of the great transformation the world has undergone from barbarism to Christian peace through the spreading of the gospel in Europe.
By the seventh century, however, Patrick had converted enough men into being Christians and scribes that many ancient Greek and Roman books were preserved in Ireland, even as the originals crumbled elsewhere.
The preservation of ancient texts is a fascinating theme upon which to relate a history, but alas, the majority of the book concerns how awesome Plato is.
Second, two-thirds of this book is a recounting of Greek and Roman philosophy and ways of thinking, one-third has to do with the conversion of the Irish to Christianity, and about three pages actually address scriptoriums and scribes and all the rest of that good stuff.
But the reason I ended up feeling the book was dubious was the actual content, starting with the title and the very premise: Irish monks saved civilization by preserving classical literature.
(Even as Cahill at one point conflates "the whole of the civilized world" with the Roman Empire.
In 1073 her writings were publicly burned in Rome and Constantinople by order of Pope Gregory VIII." So, I guess I wonder, why is it these "great gift-givers" of civilization didn't preserve her for us?But Cahill doesn't give me a good answer for this, especially because so little of the book even focuses on that part of the story.
Cahill is not a historian, per se, but his education reflects an interest in history, theology, classic texts, and performing arts.Each book examines how a particular European people changed the world (alas, no gifts mentioned from Asia and Africa).
The four cultures (one per book): Irish, Jewish, Christian (of mixed ethnicity), and Greek.
He probably stretched the "story" to make a strong case for the particular "gifts" he suggests the culture brought to the world, but I always read history through a strainer.I cannot recall whether Cahill included the contributions women made.
Cahill meandered to places I found quite enjoyable -- a good history book should meander a bit, the side trails of history are where you find all the best stories.
Reading a bit about the religious history of early Ireland was great.
The most interesting parts of this book had nothing to do with the thesis, which, to be fair, is too narrow in thought and too broadly phrased to actually be discussed efficiently.
He speaks of saving Western civilization, but what he's actually referring to is preserving a few classical texts which he claims were not preserved elsewhere.
Part of a series of audacious arguments from Thomas Cahill ("The Hinges of History"), this one observes that the fall of the Roman Empire, and the corresponding neglect of the archives of Western Civilization, was paralleled by the Christianization of Ireland, whose nascent monks saw their calling as twofold: with no real opportunity to experience the "Red Martyrdom" of persecution unto death for their faith, the Irish took first to "Green Martyrdom," or the cloistered life of studying the Scriptures and the works of the early church.
Irish monks became archivists for the ancient West at a time when Roman civilization could no longer be bothered by its own history, its own legacy.
In the Irish hey-day, St. Patrick wrote of God's love for all creatures and people despite their foibles, the Irish developed universities and brought limited literacy to lay people, and Irish missionaries brought their tolerant Christian beliefs and love of writing across Europe.Cahill is a gentle writer, often stopping to say, "Let us explore this world a little more before we move on," and presenting a picture of what life may have been like in the capital in the last century of the Western Roman Empire, and in Britain, and also in Ireland.
The title may be a slight exaggeration, but it's a good read for students of western history. Lots of good Middle Ages as well as the expected Irish background.Multiple readings pull out a wealth of details and insights.
In college I took a class entitled "Christianity in History." It turned out to be merely a church history class.This book is everything I wished that course had been, but wasn't. It does an amazing job in pointing out how Christians have impacted history, summed up best in it's final sentence:If our civilization is to be saved -- forget about our civilization, which, as Patrick would say, may pass "in a moment like a cloud or smoke that is scattered by the wind" -- if we are to be saved, it will not be by Romans but by saints.
Cahill introduces an Irish people rife with story and as ready to hear the gospel as the Greeks had been.
His story of Patrick was engaging and interesting, the work Patrick did in Ireland to evangelize the people was miraculous for sure.
Ausonius and his poetry) I think he needed to make a much stronger argument that salvation was necessary for the continent.All of the sudden, out of nowhere the Irish come to save the day.
His use of story to display the Irish character was very well done.Overall, I'm not disappointed to have read it.
Here Cahill provides a popular-level history of the early middle ages with mixed success.
As he himself notes, it was only the Roman, not the Greek or Jewish or Christian books that the Irish needed to save.
"Yes," he seems to write between the lines late in the book, "Without those monks, we still would have had the vast majority of the Western cultural heritage, but that isn't the point." And yet it IS the point if your going to say the Irish SAVED CIVILIZATION!
But I guess you can't title a book How the Irish Saved the Roman Heritage and Made It Possible That We Could Read Cicero and Virgil ...
Each tuath's members formed an annual assembly which decided all common policies, declared war or peace on other tuatha, and elected or deposed their "kings." In contrast to primitive tribes, no one was stuck or bound to a given tuath, either because of kinship or of geographical location.
Professor Peden states, "the tuath is thus a body of persons voluntarily united for socially beneficial purposes and the sum total of the landed properties of its members constituted its territorial dimension.[2] The "king" had no political power; he could not decree or administer justice or declare war.
The "Dark Ages".
Now, whoever was the idiot who coined that term did not know history.This book again sets the record straight that the Medieval Period was a time of cultural and technological stagnation.
It was actually during the Medieval Period when the seeds of many cultural and intellectual advancements were sown.If you enjoy reading books, then you have the Medieval Church men and women, like the Irish, who laboriously and lovingly copied the Scriptures and other classics that the world still enjoys, to thank for.
As research had already shown, the "Dark Ages" were anything but dark.
It was actually illuminated by the light of learning.
An entertaining little history of Irish scholarship, culture, and monk/saint heroes of antiquity who greatly respected early learning, writing etc. This very much has a catholic bias but still well written and worth reading if you are interested in Irish history.
It is not the world where learned men have the leisure to become more learned."While working through Gibbons' The History of the Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire for my nightstand reading, I realized I needed a shorter "boost" to keep going, so I decided to reread Thomas Cahill's much heralded work that shows the disappearance of learning, scholarship, and culture from the European Continent from the fall of Rome to rise of Charlemagne.
As peaceful Rome turned to chaos, chaotic Ireland grew more peaceful - the key word being more.

What a great book! A pleasure to read.
It also touched on several themes (in addition to the fragility of knowledge) which fascinate me: how social structures change over time, and how consciousness changes.For the first, I'm extremely interested in how one social structure transitions to another, and Cahill spent a bunch of time describing this: he talked about how the Roman tax system became dysfunctional, and how, as the Roman empire collapsed, the land transitioned into the small kingdoms of the dark ages.
All of that was fascinating.For the second, Cahill took it for granted that consciousness changes over time, and that the mindset of a previous civilization might be radically (and perhaps phenomenologically) different than the mindset of people today.
Defined as peoples from the north and east of the Empire with no exposure to the centuries of Greek and Roman language, literature, art, political order, and religion, and with no appreciable quantities of any of those cultural artifacts of their own, these were indeed barbarians at the gate, who burst through the weakened borders and even weaker institutions at the core of the hollowed out empire and quickly laid most if that civilization to waste.Meanwhile, far to the north and west was born a "Romanized Celtic Briton", as Cahill calls him.
Very grateful for the diligent, energetic, and artistic Irish monks who copied, enhanced, and (while they were at it) colorfully embellished the writings, plus proselytizingly left Ireland to share the love of learning.
I can't even begin to give a critical analysis of Mr. Cahill's writing; I just know that it is breezily erudite and educated.
I love the way he shares Latin poetry and prose, and then adds his very OWN translations.
My bottom line: The Irish added much fierceness, energy, spirit, rather harmless superstition, humor, enthusiasm, love of learning and language to the world.
I recently wrote somewhere that Cahill is a great writer of popular history.
His premise is fairly simple; while the Roman world is collapsing and being taken over by 'barbarians' across the continent, Irish monks, beginning with Saint Patrick, create a new civilization of religion and learning, outside the traditional Roman walls.
I had already read Cahill's Desire of the Everlasting Hills: The World Before and After Jesus, and now I'm ready to read the next his historical series on transformational moments in time.
How the Irish Saved CivilizationDesire of the Everlasting Hills: The World Before & After JesusSailing the Wine-Dark Sea: Why the Greeks Matter
This is a good and interesting book and although I think it's more a "3.5" than a straight "4", I'm willing to grade it generously.The author has clearly done a good job on his research and analysis.
No, no spoilers here, I'd rather you pick up a copy and read it for yourself!On balance I think that this is one of the better books on how "Western Civilization" survived what used to be called the Dark Ages (now, named Early Medieval).
If the author really did follow through with the later books in the series, I will be reading them and soon.
This book was wonderful. I highly suggest reading it soon after Canticle for Liebowitz and Buried Giant, because both were running through my head as I read this.
Bain of my 9th grade existence.
There's many a detail I would quibble with in this book, but Cahill gets it spot on for his two big ideas: the vital role played by Irish monks in saving and renewing the culture of Europe after the fall of Rome, and the extraordinary personality of Patrick.
Although other missionaries may have been conflated with Patrick, it's clear that he still had both the courage and, even more importantly, the open mindedness to be the first in the West to go beyond the bounds of Empire, to go beyond the ends of the world.
They are inspiring stories and they are told vividly and with warmth and humour.Structurally, Cahill seems to take an inordinately long time setting the scene as he straddles the worlds of the Holy Roman Empire and pre-Christian Celtic Ireland.
There's a lovely moment where he describes literacy as central to Irish spirituality.All in all this was a read that was, at times, inspirational, in the way that, say, 'Anam Cara' by John O'Donohue is inspirational (coincidentally published a year or so after Cahill's book), and at other times frustrating and, if I might say, slightly depressing (I'm not a fan of of the history of Christianity).
Yet the length of How the Irish Saved Civilization brings into question on if Cahill adequately answers his own question with such a slender book that promoted becoming a bestseller.Cahill’s focus is on the end of the Western Roman Empire and how the literary tradition, in fact literacy itself survived the end of the Roman era and begin in the new Germanic aftermath of the fall of Rome.
Cahill should be praised in giving readers understanding in how the society of Western Europe both changed and stayed the same with the fall of Rome and the beginning of the early Middle Ages, however the quality of the book is only so-so.
