https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/10618.Apt_Pupil
I wanted a Stephen King book that wasn't very popular or long and this was it. Super creepy and entertaining. King messed with my mind as per usual. Lol
DNF 50 pagesThis was one of those weird cases where a book was disturbing and well-written, but I struggled with how dull I found it. I spent several nights trying to get into what was happening and failing miserably each time. So this creepy little white bread kid is way into Nazi stuff, and he blackmails an old Nazi dude into reliving the experiences. Ehhhh. I just wasn't feeling it.Maybe I'll come back to it later?
This is Stephen King doing his creepy, nasty thing.
The main character, Todd Bowden, is a brilliant creation - a psychopath in the body of a fourteen year old , all American, blonde haired, blue eyed boy.
The other main character is an ex Nazi, one who was actually in charge of a concentration camp and gas chambers.
Together they are just plain evil as they egg each other on through varying degrees of wrongness.I nearly always enjoy a good Stephen King book and this is a good one.
Only short at 178 pages but always gripping and intense and very readable!
Stephen King at his best!*Apt Pupil is the story of Todd Bowden, a brilliant kid that somehow finds out that a Nazi war criminal, Kurt Dussander, lives nearby.
But instead of turning him out, Todd decides to feed his own psychopathic tendencies and so he learns from Dussander.*As I said, this is Stephen King at his best, creating two amazing, memorable characters.
I mentioned above that you won’t be able to relate to Todd, and that also covers some of his decisions that maybe are hard to believe, but make sense in the context of the story.*I actually think that, overall, Todd might be one of my favorite characters in fiction ever.
Κι αποφασίζει να τον επισκεφτεί και να του αποκαλύψει όλα όσα ξέρει για εκείνον.
Το πραγματικό του όνομα είναι Κουρτ Ντουσάντερ και διετέλεσε αξιωματικός των Ες-Ες με θητεία σε μερικά από τα μεγαλύτερα ναζιστικά στρατόπεδα συγκέντρωσης/εξόντωσης: Μπέργκεν – Μπέλζεν, Άουσβιτς – Μπιρκενάου, Πατίν.
Ο χερ Ντουσάντερ, ένας πρώην εγκληματίας πολέμου, διάγει πλέον ένα φαινομενικά ήρεμο βίο με μόνη ανησυχία –κι όχι τόσο έντονη πλέον/τα χρόνια έχουν περάσει- να μην αποκαλυφθεί η αληθινή του ταυτότητα.
Hint: Το μικρό όνομα του εφήβου (Todd) είναι ομόηχο της γερμανικής λέξης Tod που σημαίνει Θάνατος.
The fact the paperback rights to his debut novel Carrie (though actually the fourth he’d written) was picked up in 1974 by New American Library for $400,000.
After finishing his third novel, The Shining, he popped out Apt Pupil in another marathon two-week period.
After his fourth novel, The Dead Zone, he had enough juice left in the tank to deliver Rita Hayworth and Shawshank Redemption…and so on and so on.The guy’s either a genius or possessed by aliens, like his lead character in The Tommyknockers, Bobbi Anderson, who writes a full-length manuscript overnight, apparently in her sleep.Anyway!
We all know King can write.
Disturbed..dark..l couldn't endure it..I can't give King one star..but I only give it when I fail to continue any novel.It is about an old Nazi and a completely disturbed teenager. .with tons of violence. .there is a dark movie about it..both of them for strong ruthless hearts.
Apt Pupil has two of the best characters Stephen King has ever created in my opinion. Both are inhumanly evil - one a bad-tempered nazi in hiding, and the other an all-American golden boy with the secret personality of a budding sociopath. Both are so vividly realistic and so out of the realm of King's usual supernatural boogeymen and demons that this book is definitely worth noting. These two characters aren't demons. They're humans, which makes them all-the-more frightening.
Από τα πιο ιδιαίτερα του Βασιλιά.Δεν θα βρείτε τέρατα στις σελίδες του, ούτε βρικόλακες ή νεκροζώντανους.
Ο πρώτος παλιός Ναζί που ποτέ δεν ξέχασε τις...παλιές 'καλές' του συνήθειες και ο δεύτερος ένα από τα χιλιάδες σκ@@@μαθημένα έφηβα παιδιά που θεωρούν πως ξεχωρίζουν απ' όλους τους υπόλοιπους.
Είναι τρομακτικό γιατί σε όλους μας θυμίζουν κάποιον γνωστό μας, ή κάποιον για τον οποίο έχουμε διαβάσει ή ακούσει στις ειδήσεις.
Είναι τρομακτικό γιατί, ειδικά στην εποχή μας, όπου έχουν αυξηθεί η ξενοφοβία κι ο εθνικισμός κι ο φασισμός και τόσα ακόμα αρνητικά συναισθήματα, ένα τέτοιο βιβλίο 'ταράζει' τα νερά.
Ο δεκατριάχρονος Τοντ Μπόουντεν έχει αναπτύξει ενδιαφέρον για τα βασανιστήρια που έκαναν οι ναζιστές κατά τη διάρκεια του Β' παγκόσμιου πολέμου.
Όταν ανακαλύπτει ότι ένας γείτονας του είναι καταζητούμενος ναζιστής που κρύβεται σε μια μικρή πόλη της Καλιφόρνια με ψεύτικο όνομα, αποφασίζει να τον εκβιάσει ώστε να του πει περισσότερες λεπτομέρειες για τα χρόνια που ήταν ένας απ' τους τρομακτικότερους βασανιστές.
Αν με ρωτάτε κάποιος τι θα γινόταν σε μια περίπτωση σαν αυτή, η απάντησή μου θα ήταν ακριβώς αυτά που συμβαίνουν στο βιβλίο.
Η εξέλιξη των χαρακτήρων ήταν ακριβώς αυτή που περίμενα όταν άρχισα να διαβάζω το βιβλίο.
Stephen King says that he wrote this novel in 2 weeks just to "decompress" after he finished "The Shining". Evocative characters, a real sense of creeping madness and a twisty plot with more convolutions than a fire at a Slinky factory make this one of the author's best books. Too bad they muffed the film version.
Σκεφτείτε τον εαυτό σας και τους γύρω σας, πόσο λεπτή είναι η διαχωριστική γραμμή ανάμεσα στο καλό και το κακό, πόσο εύκολο είναι να κάνει κάποιος έναν φόνο, έστω και αν πρόκειται για ένα ζώο, ένα μυρμήγκι, μια μύγα, και η ικανοποίηση που αποκομίζει από αυτήν την πράξη, και μετά αναλογιστείτε την παραπάνω διαπίστωση.
Άλλωστε, σε κάθε έγκλημα δεν βγαίνουν οι γνωστοί του θύτη στην τηλεόραση και λένε για το πόσο καλός και ήσυχος άνθρωπος ήταν;;;Σαν να μην έφταναν όλα αυτά, ο Κινγκ διανθίζει το βιβλίο του και με την επιρροή που ασκούσε και ασκεί αυτή η λαίλαπα που ονομάζεται ναζισμός και Χίτλερ στο ανθρώπινο είδος.
Η ιστορία είναι γνωστή: Ένα κλασικό Αμερικανάκι, ο δεκατριάχρονος Τοντ Μπόουντεν, άριστος μαθητής και αυτό που λένε "καλό παιδί", ανακαλύπτει το μεγάλο ενδιαφέρον της ζωής του: Τα πολεμικά-ιστορικά περιοδικά.
Έχει αλλάξει όνομα, έχει έτοιμη μια ιστορία για το παρελθόν του, κανείς δεν τον υποψιάζεται!
Σαν αντάλλαγμα για να μην πει τίποτα σε κανέναν, ο Τοντ ζητάει από τον γέρο Ναζί, να του πει όλες τις ανατριχιαστικές λεπτομέρειες των εγκλημάτων του!
Γενικά είναι από τα πολύ καλά βιβλία του Κινγκ, που δεν είναι τρόμου ούτε έχουν ίχνος φανταστικού, αλλά μπορούν κάλλιστα να σε τρομάξουν και να σε προβληματίσουν.
You can't look away no matter how grotesque it is.Sadly, also in true King form, somewhere in the middle of the book, the story took a turn, and the soft porn and profanity that King is prone to lean toward finally came out.
The profanity, the sex, the violent fantasies--it all drives deeper and shows clearly (view spoiler)[Todd's spiral into (hide spoiler)] the state of psychopath.
No one can tell a story like he can.
I only wish he could do so (and truly, he has the talent to find a way) without riddling his novels with the blackness of profanity and explicit sex scenes.
Ο Τοντ Μποουντεν είναι το τέλειο παιδί,το όνειρο κάθε γονιού,καλός μαθητής,έξυπνος ευγενικός.Κανείς δεν ξέρει όμως πόση βρωμιά κρύβει μέσα η ψυχή του,ποσό αρρωστημένη είναι.Από τη στιγμή που γνωρίζεται με τον ηλικιωμένο,Άρθουρ Ντενκερ ή αλλιώς Κουρτ Ντουσσαντερ,πρώην αξιωματικό των ΕςΕς στο στρατόπεδο συγκέντρωσης του Πατιν,αρχίζει και ξεδιπλώνεται το αρρωστημένο μυαλό του μικρού.Λειτουργεί και σκέφτεται σαν τον Ντουσαντερ και στο τέλος καταλήγει να του μοιάζει σε υπερθετικό βαθμό.
Τρομακτικό μα πέρα για πέρα αληθινό,ένα μυθιστόρημα για σκελετούς καλά κρυμμένους στις ντουλαπες φιλησυχων και καλοκαγαθων,κατά τα άλλα,ανθρώπων που,όμως,κρύβουν σκοτεινά μυστικα και αρρωστημένη πάθη.Συγκλονιστικό!!!!!!
Από τις καλές ιστορίες του μάγου. Αν και ξεκινάει χαλαρά όσο περνάει η ώρα η ιστορία γίνεται πάρα πολύ ενδιαφέρουσα, σε κρατάει σε αγωνία μέχρι το λυτρωτικό της τέλος.
Like the other 3 novels in Stephen King's short story collection "Different Seasons," this story was well done.
That said, I couldn't finish it because it was too dark.
I gave it one star because that is for "didn't like it." I really just didn't want to read another word about a messed up kid, a Nazi as an old man, and especially the terrible things they were doing.
It was just too dark for me, so I put it down.
I did enjoy the story, but I just couldn't keep reading it due to subject matter.
I really enjoyed his other books in this collection.
Μερικές φορές είναι πολύ δύσκολο να ορίσεις τον τρόμο... Εδώ όμως είναι ο απόλυτος... Αλλά όχι για όλους... Για εμάς που έχουμε παιδιά είναι... Για οποιονδήποτε καταλαβαίνει ότι υπάρχουν πολλά υπόλοιπα από το παρελθόν... Είναι... Αλήθεια ο κινγκ εδώ είναι τόσο πολυδιάστατος που τρομάζει.. Εξαιρετικό... Απλά.... Πολύ τρομαχτικό
It was lunchtime, and I was reading at my desk, as I was wont to do.
I hit the microwave scene, and...note to self, no Stephen King at meals.
His later novels, somewhere after The Dead Zone, suffer from bloat and could use the editing prowess of a Maxwell Perkins.
As talented and imaginative as Mr. King is, not every paragraph is gold, and he needs someone to remind him of that fact.
Of course, there is probably a market for his grocery lists, so there is little impetus to practice the required discipline that would make his novels just that little bit better.

I didn't realize that I had actually read something by Stephen King.
I am quite familiar with a number of his stories from discussion; others from film adaptations.
I know him chiefly as an amazing font of poorly-executed ideas and The Man Who Cannot End A Story.
As someone who finds WWII and the Holocaust to be blown out of proportion (especially in comparison to other, ignored genocides) the book's fixation did not resonate with me.
However, the exploration of the darker side of man, especially as it relates to obsession with death, did.
I'll preface my review with the understanding that my rating is based solely on my enjoyment of the book and has nothing to do with the talent of the writer or the writing.I hated reading this book.Not because it was bad writing but because the characters in this book are vile, twisted, disturbed beyond belief.
They make the characters in Gone Girl seem like Lake Wobegon.In the end I was dreading having to continue reading this book because I did not want to spend any time with these characters.
I've read my share of horror and have spent many hours with characters that are evil but this went beyond that.
Not because it made me hide under the covers while reading it (again, not that type of horror), but because it made me afraid of what a "normal" human being can become and what they can do with the "right" influence.I read this a long time ago (maybe 20 years or so?) and it has stuck with me all this time.
When the movie adaptation came out, I did not go to it--even though I knew it would probably fall flat of the writing, I was still afraid of it.
Still too disturbed.
Disturbing is the perfect word for this story.
This plot line features perfect house of cards. Despite their age differences, these two character simultaneously feed off each other and keep each other in check for years until a confluence of events threatens to bring everything down.A masterpiece by the master of horror.
Todd Bowden is a paper boy/high school student who discovers his neighbor, Kurt Dussander, is a wanted Nazi war criminal.
Basically Todd becomes engrossed in Dussander's terrible war crime stories and goes over to his house frequently.
The creepy part is that Todd has no intention of turning Dussander in..he just wants more and more information out of him.
The language King uses is sinister and excruciatingly detailed which makes you get lost in images, which in turn makes the demented events he describes seem believeable at the time.
But certainly looking back on the book, the murderous nature that errupts in Todd is complete and utter nonsense!!
Stephen King is such an awesome writer!
He continues to amaze me at the depth of his writing.
SK is the master at conversational writing.
Apt Pupil read much like Interview with the Vampire or his own outstanding book, Dolores Claiborne.
I got swept up in this story.
SK took a conversational dialogue book and added some terrorizing twists as the story developed.
I felt sorry for how this story affected the young Apt Pupil.
But that is again where SK takes the reader by the neck and twists.
I'm glad I found my way to Apt Pupil.
I think the answer lies in how the characters themselves were constructed in Stephen King's head when he first came up with the idea of an "apt" American boy of 14 going wild and turning out to be someone else, within the course of just one summer.The characters in this book were all a little over done.
Reading this book only serves to increase the horror at how Todd behaves.
Kurt D was trying to get past it, while Todd had no idea of what would happen when you purposefully on a sleeping tiger's tail.
I like reading Stephen King's creepy books.
This book fell into the slightly creepy bucket.
I love his writing.
He was such an incredible descriptive quality that I just love, especially with his characters and in creating great tension.
So his writing, for me, is easily 5 stars.
I liked the first half.
It didn't evoke horror like it was probably meant to do, so that was a fail for me.
The final scene was great.
I really didn't think the story would recover, but the final scene was a great rally.
So 3 stars.
These are just some random thoughts and observations I had about this story.Todd Bowen.
Cathy from East of Eden.
Why are some people born monsters?
Old man Dussander didn't have to teach Todd much.
The kid was a natural Nazi.Todd's father is casually racist towards minorities.
This is the attitude in Germany that allowed the Nazis to take over: preying on people's existing prejudices.
America is not innocent.
Bullies, dog-gassers, people-burners, invaders, bigots...to turn on him, Dussander says, would be hypocritical.
He is seen as a target only because his side lost.
It's an uncomfortable thought...
Багшийн маань хэлдэг байсан муу хүн ухаантай байх нь хамгийн аймшигтай зүйл гэсэн үгийг л хэлье... хэзээ ч хүүхдийг тэгэж үзэн ядаж байсангүй, үе үе энэ ямар зэвүүн бацаан бэ гэсэн бодолтой... :PЕр нь Стивен Кингийн номуудыг унших явцдаа дотор нь орчихоод байх юм даа.
