https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/13152.The_Angel_Experiment
Now this is a terrible book.Written with all the wit and grace of a one-legged puppy, Maximum Ride: The Angel Experiment reveals its intentions within the first chapter alone.
These characters (each bequeathed with atrocious names that are supposed to be hip - Maximum, Nudge, Iggy, the Gasman, Fang, and Angel) spend 422 pages being chased by "Erasers" while trying to discover the secret of the School, the institution responsible for their mutations.
183) makes me practically tired of bad writing.Worse than the one-dimensional characters and the freakishly awful writing are the countless pages devoted entirely to filler.
The only upside to Maximum Ride is its appeal to reluctant readers...
Well that wasn't too bad! You have six kids that are human and have some bird in them. Huh, and all this time I thought they were angels 😄 Goes to show you have to read to know. I'm glad this was on one of my challenge lists because I have wanted to read it. I think I will keep checking them out on Overdrive to see what else happens. I mean they all escaped and have people/things after them. Happy Reading! Mel ❤️
This is a book I always thought I wouldn’t enjoy.I saw it numerous times at my former high school’s library and, each time I came across it, I would let my fingers linger on the cover, a pensive expression on my face, and think, ‘‘Naaaah, not for me.’’Boy was I wrong not to read it YEARS ago.
I thought it would be about actual angels, but that’s not what Max and her friends are.
I thought Catwoman was pretty awesome with her ability to jump great lengths and move like a cat, but nothing beats being able to fly.
And isn’t it refreshing to read YA novels without romance?
OK. I thought this was going to be a lame cheese fest. I mean, James Patterson? I know kids seem to like the series OK, and even a couple adults have recommended it to me. But I figured it wasn't my bag. I'm not sure why. Genetically engineered mutant kids with wings escaping from evil scientists and fighting super strong werewolf-like soldiers. What's not to like? I couldn't put it down. Fast paced, exciting, kind of horrifying and a lot better written than I expected. I'm totally reading the next book. In fact, I can't wait to read it.
Take a bit of the child-like innocence vs.
evil of Harry Potter, some of the artificially-created destiny from Ender's Game, throw in the flying fantasies from Eragon and mix them in with Patterson's trademark flippant characterization, and you've got Maximum Ride.
This is the book I'm going to recommend when everyone's recovering from the end of Harry Potter later this month.
It's that good.
And the best part is there are two more books after this one.
2.5 Stars! “The funny thing about facing imminent death is that it really snaps everything else into perspective.”Well that was fun, i LOVED MAX she was great, annoying at times. but funny, and loving big sister. The writing was okay, The story had potential but was poorly executed.
This book was okay, but I just felt like it didn't have a lot of substance. I didn't really take anything away from it, almost like it didn't have a lot of deep meaning. And it wasn't terribly entertaining, either. I just would have liked the characters to be a little deeper, I guess. I doubt I will read the rest of the series. Reviewed for: http://inthehammockblog.blogspot.com/
I was lead to believe I was about to read a soaring adventure novel filled with damaged characters who stick together out of both love for each other and fear of their enemies.
What I got was a pathetic and one-dimensional cast of character (who seemed mentally sound even after their years of abuse), unclear and unemotional writing, poor action scenes, has no depth whatsoever and lacks simple life to it.
That quote also shows you how shallow the characters are, because Max continues to tell us how "spunky" and "feisty" she is.
Nothing massively wrong with it but the writing was just way too young for me.
Do Not Finish at page 145.I want to finish this book, but after a while I remember life is too short for reading one crappy book after another.If I read The Angel Experiment when I was 12 years old, I guess I would have been oh-so impressed.But readers who possess the mental maturity of a 13 years old or above are free to skip this book.And James Patterson, I'm blacklisting you. I will not read any other of your books. Trick me one, shame on you; trick me twice, shame on me.
This is a really terrible book.
It's even worse than the whole Twilightand Eragon series combined together.
The plot is extremely obnoxious, it features cardboard characters, and it has awfully absurd twists.
It's dialogues are really horrible, like an old man trying very hard to sound young.
this book is very,very,very badly written.
A 12 year old could probably do better.
The battle scenes, if you could call them that, are also poorly written and not realistic.
This book is oh-so very boring and fails to entertain.
Also, most of the plot was wasted on insignificant fillers.
I won't recommend this book to anyone.
One of my students recommended this book, and while I was intrigued by the premise, and the fact that the protagonist is a female action hero, I found the dialogue beyond basic (only an adult would imagine that kids really communicate like this) and the plot was a liitle repetitious. it's part of a trilogy - but I don't care enough about these characters to read more.
Max struggles to keep her flock together, discover her destiny, and save the world while she's at it.Finding their parents would be a nice bonus, too, if only the whitecoats would stop trying to kill them.(Sadly, only the first 3 books of the series are good.
But they are so good!)Writer thoughts:  It's amazing that JP can pull off such a fast-paced book with so many hilarious and sarcastic comments.
The pacing and timing blend very well to push the reader to the end without thought for the outside world.However, there is little to no resolution in any of these books, which catches up the readers in book 4.
Warning:If you dare to read his story,you become part of the Experiment.I know that sounds a little mysterious-but it’s all I can say right now.-MaxI read a lot of Patterson adult thrillers, and after a while, I kind of got bored of him (I mean how many sequels can a book have?!).
400 pages of action packed fun, that leaves you wanting more.
I loved hearing her sarcastic and snarky tone throughout the whole story.I also love that chapters were short, and there was a cliffhanger at the end of each one.
It's really, really, REALLY fast-paced and action-packed.
Even the very first chapter throws you headfirst into straight-on action.
It's a very easy read, with short chapters that flow right into the other with cliffhangers.
While reading this book, I experienced rushes and throbbing through my head at all the excitement, thrill, and suspense.
It felt like watching an intense action movie.
And the end is a huge cliffhanger, making me sure that I'm going to attack the next book right away!
This is good for anyone who wants to read a good, fast, exciting action book!
I loved all of them: Max, Fang (he's pretty droolworthy for a fourteen year old--I think I would be crushing if I was that age), Iggie, Gasman, Nudge and Angel (adorable and kind of scary in some ways).
I think the way it was handled is okay, as long as a concerned parent makes it clear that this isn't acceptable behavior outside of the circumstances of this book.*As I mentioned above, the author isn't shy about mentioning human experimentation, and on children, no less.
1.5 stars. On the "plus" side, this novel has a very interesting premise and the book was a very fast read. On the "negative" side, there is not a whole lot of substance to the story and the character development is weak. I was really hoping that the author would do something really great with the very cool concept of children genetically enhanced with avain DNA, but it just didn't happen. Bottom-line, the book, while not horrible, was one I really didn't like.
The only reason this book doesn't get five stars from me is because I'm so confused by some things.
But I liked it A LOT.
First, I didn't feel like it really went anywhere.
It's like you can tell it's trying to go somewhere but it's not really doing it.
This book was definitely entertaining, and I love the characters...LOVE them.
I'm kind of mean, but if I see a little kid in Wal-Mart whining and demanding a toy it just grates on my nerves like nothing else.
And the mind control thing is just creepy.But I LOVED this book.
Title: The Angel ExperimentAuthor: James PattersonSeries: Maximum Ride #1Rating: ★★★★★ Summary: In James Patterson's blockbuster series, fourteen-year-old Maximum Ride, better known as Max, knows what it's like to soar above the world.
She and all the members of the "flock"--Fang, Iggy, Nudge, Gasman and Angel--are just like ordinary kids--only they have wings and can fly.
Along the way Max discovers from her old friend and father figure Jeb - now her betrayed and greatest enemy - that her purpose is save the world--but can she?Review: At first, I sadly admit to abandoning this book.
I love how she's just this down-to-earth type kid.
Each member of this group has been created with super-human abilities like great speed, strength, physic powers, and flight.
The head of the Erasers is a kid name Ari. Max sets off to save Angel and on the way she see a girl getting bullied so she goes to help her and ends up getting shot in her wing.
When Max meets up with the rest of the flock they start to travel to the school again and end up getting attacked by the Erasers.
Max is brought back to the school and finds Jeb there where he discovers he was created to save the world.
A bizarre plot with a terrible beginning. Without any sort of background we are plunged into action. It works for Riordan but unfortunately not here. Could not bring myself to read past the first 20 pages. P.S - Mr. Patterson? Kids do NOT speak like that. You just sound like an adult trying too hard to talk in a way he thinks kids these days might talk.Bad sentence formation just now, you say? Yeah, that about sums up your book.
However, this series (especially this book) was actually the reason I got so heavily into reading.
I was in grade 6 at school (age 11) when my friend in grade 7 told me they were reading this book in class.
By the time I got to grade 7 and read it in class, I had already read the first 3 books in the series.
I actually made my best friend read them too and she borrowed them from me and we used to fangirl over them.
Patterson writes in the voice of the girl hero Maximum Ride, and ends mostly with small cliffhangers, which compels the readers to continue reading.
(I couldn't really put it down; I kept wanting to find out what happened to the characters.)Patterson didn't only place small cliffhangers at the end of the chapters, he added a huge one for the next (few?) books; that Max was destined to save the world.
In both, the experiment of combining avian and human genes were present, as were there being six "members".
I want to see how she saves the world; 2.
I usually really enjoy YA books but this one was more young than it was adult and occasionally irritating because of that.
Initially I thought I had picked up the series on the second book because of constant references to what has happened before.
I ended up wondering why the author had not started his story at the beginning.
The story did become reasonably exciting and I read through to the end.
I will not however be reading any more of the series.
I like James Patterson ' s adult books but will steer clear of his YA ones.y
THIS IS ONE OF THE BEST BOOK SERIES IN THE UNIVERSE OF HUMAN (AND OTHER) KIND!!!!!! yeah.....IM NOT OBSESIVE!! read them....
James Patterson's contribution to young adult fantasy. It's actually pretty good. I guess if you are a good writer you can write anything.
And I've come to the realization that my Middle School self had different tastes and opinions than my current self.
Well, if you insist...Here are my opinions on....THE PLOTMiddle School self: OMGersh, so exciting!Current, sarcastic self: While hearing everyone talk to each other about the same things for 10 chapters is exhilarating, some action might be good right now.
Mostly, it's just...﻿Blah blah blah blah me me me.MAXMiddle School self: I want to be JUST.
Why must I listen to Fang and Nudge have a meaningless(one-sided) conversation when I could be in Max's head while she's supposedly saving the day?MY OVERALL OPINIONMiddle School self: Current self: SWIM.
It would've been enjoyable if I didn't read the manga and got all the spoilers from that. Also, the chapters weren't very effective when it came to the cliffhangers at the end of it because there were 3 pages in every chapter or less. Personally, I enjoyed this a little less than the manga because it was perfect in that form. It's a very action packed book that deserves the pictures in that manga.
- I need to go on a re-reviewing spree soon. Gosh, my old review made me sound like a huge idiot. YAY. This will be fun. -
What an action-packed book!Max (Maximum Ride) is one of six kids who were genetically engineered to be able to fly.
The kids are all different but care for each other deeply as a family since they've never had another family.
That is just one of the mysteries that exist in the book.While I loved the pace and the cat-and-mouse game they play with their hunters, it is these mysteries that made me turn pages.
For example, why do the hunters catch them then let them go?
More than once.We get some of the answers in this book, but not all.
