https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/102458.Hellboy_Vol_1
I love this series.
That said, I haven't been a faithful follower of the books.
I read comics once they're collected in trade paperback, and even then, my purchases are erratic.
But earlier this year I went on a Hellboy binge.
If anything I love it more than before because I have a much better appreciation for the entire story arc that's been taking place.
When I try to think how to describe Hellboy, I find myself a little stumped.
Even worse, it implies I don't love Sandman, which I do.
Let's move on.Simply said, if you haven't read this series.
Outstanding concept but lacked deeper characterization This trade paperback edition collects the comic book issues “Hellboy” #1 to #4, which it’s the beginning of the series. Also including the two previous illustrated short stories published as promos for Hellboy, the main character.Creative Team:Creator, illustrator and story: Mike MignolaScript: John Byrne HECK, BOY!  If I have a real name, I’ve never known it. I’m called Hellboy. Hellboy is one of the strongest comic book titles in the area
Hellboy is one of the strongest comic book titles in the area of Indy (Independent) comics and some proof of that can be counted in the four movies (two theatrical live-action, two direct-to-video animated) which they have been positively praised.And you know that Hellboy is something out of the ordinary when the famous Horror author, Robert Bloch, writes the introduction to the trade paperback.The premise of the origins of Hellboy, the main character and the Bureau of Paranormal Research and Defense (BPRD), the organization where he works, are indeed outstanding.Hellboy appeared as a “baby” in an abandoned church in a British town, during the final days of the World War II due a satanic summon made, in a distant different location, by a special team assembled by the Nazis.
Ah. This was quite good. The art suited the pulpy vibe of the story perfectly. And it is a good story too, underscored by Lovecraftian influences.There really isn’t much more I can say, other than this: it’s much better than the film.Recommended. Even to readers who don’t particularly enjoy the graphic medium.
To be fair, the relationship between Hellboy and his adoptive father, the Professor, would be elaborated on in later books so it's interesting to see that in this first volume Mignola had all but dismissed Bruttenholm as a character in the Hellboy universe.Seed of Destruction is only barely related to the first Hellboy film.
Plus it's great to see Mignola slowly putting together what will become a massive universe, gingerly introducing Abe Sapien and Liz Sherman while only hinting at what the BPRD is.It's a shame this is the first volume as many new readers will read this and some will be turned off from reading more by Byrne's clunky writing and characterisation, and therefore miss out on one of the greatest comic book characters ever created, as Hellboy will become in later volumes.
It's interesting to note that even though the films concentrate on visuals, they still never reach the stark beauty of the comic.As lovely as the art is, what's remarkable is the depth of the story.
What may be more impressive is Mignola's ability to combine these disparate threads into a cohesive whole, and to present these bits of cultural history alongside a giant, wisecracking red guy without the losing the comic's serious, even terrifying tone.It's no wonder that the films ended up more goofy than scary, since maintaining this careful balance is difficult at best.
Mignola keeps a strong undercurrent throughout his stories.
*3.5/5
Like how Hellboy comes to our world, who brought him from his world to ours, the Nazi story, his relationship with a certain scientist, his two rather unusual companions, the enemy and ultimate battle.A few elements were unknown to me but all were worked out wonderfully.
Other than that, the story brings great "history" combined with a lot of fun action.The art in this is glorious!
I love history and mythology and both seem to get mixed wonderfully in the Hellboy comics, which was my motivation to watch the movies and now to read one of the volumes.
This is the second time I've read this, the first being around the time the first or second movie came out, but I remember not bothering with reading the rest.
I honestly don't know.This has a great Cthulhu vibe to it, mixing old Nazis, Rasputin, private eyes, sea gods, and even a misspelling of Ereshkigal, Sumerian goddess of the underworld.
What's not to like?Well, maybe I was just in a mood then or a mood now, but by the time I finished this volume today, I'm in the mood to keep on going and enjoying the series.
Didn't we all enjoy the movies?
The first book of Hellboy can best be described as The X-Files in Arkham. Totally relevant to my interests. For the most part, it delivers. The villain is a little monologue-y, but that seems to be in character for him. I liked Hellboy's narration, and the art is striking. Aside from the main storyline, there are also a couple of short, action-packed comics there are pretty fun to read.
Movie is classical colorful hero movie with classical movie plotline mandatory schmuck added to set of characters.
Comic on the other hand has strong pulpy Lovecraftian atmosphere supported by illustrations in dark pastel colors.
Protagonist is also lot different overall.Yes he is still wisecracking but he seems less childish and more balanced flashed out as character.Overall, great start to the series and this is probably series I will continue in following weeks.
So much better on the second reading!
John Byrne's writing style is still an annoyance, but oh man, did I miss so many important details from this volume when I first read it.
Hellboy is an incredible story, even if it took me a long while to get into it the first time I was reading the books.
But the atmosphere, the mythos, the great artwork — it's all already here, in the very first trade.
Still, it gets sooo much better in the following volumes — I can't recommend Hellboy enough!First read: September 1, 2015Rating: ★★★・・Second read: October 10, 2016Rating: ★★★★・
I always dug Mike Mignola's art as a young teen, he was one of the first comics artists (along with Liefeld and Lee) I felt had a very distinctive style.That said, the writing on this book was...not the best. I wish I could summon (even demonically!) the enthusiasm people seem to have for the character and the stories but, even though I found them movies pretty OK, I'm not there yet after this volume.
He investigates supernatural events and fights monsters as he doesn’t want to be an evil demon but a good guy instead, in this arc he has to deal with some creepy stuff involving frogs.Pros:Hellboy is a bad-a** and interesting fellow.The art is fantastic!This book is very unpredictable.
Lots of suspense throughout.There’s some great supernatural action scenes!This is a very weird horror story, I’m always a fan of weird horror if done right, I’d say this is fun and done right.Cons:The story isn’t horrible but it didn’t interest me very much.The supporting characters could’ve been interesting but I feel like except for the villain, they didn’t get the attention they deserved.
Like Hellboy?
This is where to start with the graphic novels, if you haven't already read it.
I promise.Not familiar with Hellboy?
Start reading here, it's an awesome origin.
There's really nothing else like it.
There's really nothing else like it.
Also, see the movies, they're by Guillermo del Toro, and they're really good.Don't like Hellboy?
What isn't to like about a paranormal graphic novel following a trenchcoat-wearing demon that fights evil monsters and Nazis, occasionally at the same time?Bonus: This collects not only features Hellboy's origin story, but also has the first two Hellboy stories ever published, used to promote and introduce the character.
Mike Mignola pens a great tale in this, Seed of Destruction, my first Hellboy book.
Rasputin's ploy is to show the Nazi's his work in summoning a powerful entity to help their cause, without informing them that the said entity (Hellboy) would also be the conduit through which the Old Gods would be freed from their prisons.
For that you must certainly read this wonderful tale yourself.This was my first Hellboy book.
Comic book fans, fantasy/horror fiction fans, fans of original art and of course- fans of Hellboy or Mike Mignola should definitely read this starting volume in the series.
But most of our species judge a book by its cover, and that lends itself to many of the narratives.Much of the plot of Volume 1 can be characterized as Mignola meets Lovecraft.
Ready or not, Hellboy is thrust into a plot that brings together something of his origins and something more ancient and terrifying.
I liked the plot, I liked the characterization, the cover by Dave Stewart and the other ink work by Mark Chiarello.
I am a man who loves good comic books, and Mike Mignola's Hellboy is exactly that.
Mike Mignola loves a great action sequence, and Hellboy's big ol' "Right Hand of Doom" and terrible aim with "The Good Samaritan" -- the oversized revolver the eponymous leading man received as a gift from the Torch of Liberty -- ensure that melee style action and battle are at the heart of the pulpy jewel that is Hellboy.But if you're looking for literary or thematic depth, if you want some philosophy or politics with your graphics, Hellboy isn't for you.
Δεύτερη ανάγνωση:Love, love, love, him to bits.===================Ήξερα ότι αυτές οι στεγνές, γωνιώδεις γραμμές του Μινόλα θα μου άρεσαν. Δεν ήξερα ότι θα τις λάτρευα. Next please.Α, κι ο Έιμπ είναι ο αγαπημένος μου. Μακράν.
Hellboy was deliberately brought into our world to serve Rasputin's purposes in giving ultimate power to a great evil, but rejects that destiny in favor of...the fascinating thing is that he's not entirely sure who he's meant to be, except that he stands in opposition to whatever threatens his adopted world.
I really like Liz's development--pyrokinesis is a favorite theme of mine--and Mignola's take on her power is unique and lends itself to further exploration.
The paranormal-detective thing is commoner now than it was in the early '90s when this first came out, but Hellboy is still fairly unique in that genre.
Slightly different from the movie, but I have a feeling some of the aspects from the movie will appear in later volumes (none of which I own at this point, something than saddens me greatly). Over all, I think if you like graphic novels or anything by H. P. Lovecraft, or the movies of course, I would definitely recommend this!
A nice story with a nice Lovecraftian flavor and some really good art. Mike Mignola you Great Old One!
On top of that, Hellboy is your typical sullen (anti)hero with a heart of gold and a bit of a short temper, fighting the good fight with sledgehammer fists and sarcastic punch-lines.
“Hellboy” is a beauty to look at, finding the right means to convey not only events and action, but rather the atmosphere of it all.
But even apart from being pulp galore, “Hellboy” is a helluva good comic.
Story, characters, artwork and all.
4.5*
Me encantó la película, la vi en la época en que alquilar una peli era lo más.. además de que la vi con alguien que pensé que podría llegar a ser algo más y no lo fue... siempre por culpa de un tercero... Guillermo del Toro hizo un buen trabajo de adaptación...Buenos personajes, muchos entrañables...
I recently undertook a plan to re-read every single trade in the Hellboy/B.P.R.D. gestalt, in most cases for about the jillionth time.I started, of course, where it all started, with Seed of Destruction.
I have fond memories of Seed of Destruction, and own it more times over than any other book.
I love the skeleton of the storyline and many of the scenes and images and so forth, and man do I ever love the frog monsters and Sadu-Hem and the old dark house on the cursed lake, but, weirdly, I think it's John Byrne's hand in the writing that keeps this from being as good as some of the later books.
Hellboy's noir-ish hardboiled detective monologue actually loses something when compared to the later Mignola stuff.
Yıkım Dölü adlı bu cilt aslında Hellboy filminde izlediğimiz hikâyenin asıl versiyonunu oluşturuyor.
Rasputin, Nazi Almanyası zamanında gerçekleştirdiği bir büyüyle kahramanımızı bizim dünyamıza getiriyor.
Ama onu bulan Profesör Trevor ve Amerikan askerleri oluyor.
Böylece Hellboy adını alıp Paranormal Araştırma Bürosu'nun bir parçası oluyor.
Balık adam Abe ile payromanyak kızımız Liz de onunla birlikte.
Neyse ki benzerlikler burada kısmen sona eriyor, bu sayede filmi izlemiş olmanız hiçbir şey fark ettirmiyor.Mike Mignola'nın hikâye anlatımını ve oluşturduğu Lovecraft-vari etmenleri cidden çok beğendim.
Zaten Cthulhu'ya her zaman bir zaafım olmuştur.
Hellboy'un da daha ilk sayıdan itibaren o bildiğimiz, tanıdığımız karakter olması işin bir diğer artısı.
Diğer sayıları okumak için sabırsızlanıyorum.
Comienzo mi proyectada lectura de todo Hellboy como no podía ser de otra manera, con su primer volumen: Semilla de destrucción.
He de reconocer que esta no es mi primera aproximación al demonio rojo, pero sí es la primera vez que leo esta historia.
Sin embargo, en este comienzo se puede ver que Mignola (ayudado por el gran John Byrne en el guión) aún no tiene pillado el tranquillo del todo a su personaje.
Es normal, por otra parte.
No tardaría mucho en pillárselo.Se me ha hecho corto este volumen.
Pero también me ha parecido divertido.
Pero todo llegará.

As a huge fan of the movies, I came to this book wanting to know more about Hellboy. This is very different from HB1 but I liked it. The Lovecraft inspiration is obvious (and that's ok). I liked the story, I liked the art. I like all the lil bits of new info- like Hellboy can't see in the dark any better than a human can, what?! There is more creatures like him? I'm definitely reading the next one.
34th book read in 2015.Number 118 out of 462 on my all time book list.Follow the link below to see my video review:https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=df8wp...
