https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7093952-faithful-place
tana french and i have come a long way, baby...and with this book, we are officially in love.this is exactly the kind of book i was expecting from her.
in the woods was great at the start and frustrating at the end, and the likeness was tons of fun for a staggeringly unbelievable premise.
oofa - i loved each and every one of them.this book can be read as a stand-alone, by the way - you don't have to have read the first two, but someday i would like some answers to my questions in the first book,please.this review used to have buried treasure and is now simply serviceable.
(B+) 77% | GoodNotes: A generational family drama dressed as a murder-mystery. No real aha moment, I guessed the solution at the outset.
Soon a body is discovered that bears forensic similarities to young Rosie Daly and Mackey tries to weasel his way into the investigation, much to the dismay of Dublin Murder Squad star-detective, Scorcher Kennedy.
Not only does Frank have to come to terms with the murder of his first love, but he also must return to face his family and the issues he thought he left in his past.
As with each novel, French offers a soap box for a central theme; this one being the role of family.
The night faded to a thin sad gray and round the corner a milk cart clattered over cobblestones towards the dairy, and I was still waiting for Rosie Daly at the top of Faithful Place."Twenty-two years ago, at the age of nineteen, Detective Frank Mackey had a plan – a plan to escape his alcoholic father and dysfunctional family with the most enchanting girl ever to emerge from the squalor of the Liberties.
A detective in the Dublin Undercover squad, Frank was a bit of a presumptuous jerk in The Likeness, to put it mildly.
When Frank Mackey was 19, he planned to run away to London with his sweetheart, only she never showed up.
Another of the running themes is "no one can mess you up like your family can." Faithful Place brings undercover cop Frank Mackey back to his old neighborhood and reunites him with the family he hasn't spoken to in decades.
The poor Dublin neighborhood Frank grew up in is one of the better-developed settings I've ever encountered.
By the time I was finished, I was glad the sadness parade was over.The third book in Tana French's Dublin Murder Squad series maintains the standard set by the previous two volumes.
***And just like that, after a 3-day reading binge of Faithful Place and Broken Harbour, Tana French joins my list of favorite authors.*** There is no place like home...  Well, Frank Mackey knows this phrase can have quite unexpected sinister undertones. After all, he spent 22 years away from the place he grew up and away from his family; and it's only a suitcase found in an abandoned house on his old street, Faithful Place, that can bring Frank back home - and open an old wound that has never h
After all, he spent 22 years away from the place he grew up and away from his family; and it's only a suitcase found in an abandoned house on his old street, Faithful Place, that can bring Frank back home - and open an old wound that has never healed.
It seems that Rosie never managed to leave the place she so desperately wanted to escape - just like she has never ever left the thoughts of Frank Mackey, now a gruff Undercover Detective.
This is a murder mystery.
Too bad the mystery gets pushed aside to make way for repetitive domestic fiction.
I love the way French's characters insult each other.
And the line about ZZ Top had me laughing so hard I was snorting!
Then I got a fit of the giggles and laughed till my ribs hurt.
She does finally come back around and let Mackey solve the mystery, but it's not a credit to the genre.
The "why" of the murder(s) is a little more interesting, but also somewhat predictable.
[If you are humor challenged, please don't bother leaving a comment telling me I'm wrong about this.
Tana, dear, I’d like to buy you a pint.Tana French’s 2010 entry in her Dublin Murder squad series is my favorite so far.
The protagonist of The Likeness was one of the characters in 2007’s In the Woods, but not the lead.
Correspondingly, Frank Mackey, the hero here, was a character in The Likeness, but not the lead.
French delivers.Blending elements of James Joyce’s Dubliners short story “Eveline” and scenes from J.M. Synge’s The Playboy of the Western World, French describes a murder cold case that is personal to the hero.
She creates a powerful sense of place and ambience, her character development is second to none, and the stories she weaves are brilliantly poignant.As a testimony to her phenomenalness (new word just for Tana), look how she picks her protagonists.
I feel I really know him and understand him after reading Faithful Place.I knocked a half star off my rating as it took a while for me to engage in Frank’s story, expressly because I wasn’t his fan.
I didn’t want it to end.So book #4 is featuring a character from Faithful Place who I don’t care one wit about.
I absolutely love to dive into the narrative voice of a Tana French novel.
Her Dublin Murder Squad series is fastly becoming the series that I want all my friends to read!
It's not that I'm selfish, we just all need to support the economy right now.
Faithful Place refers to the Dublin neighborhood where the main protagonist, Frank Daly, undercover cop and father of the most adorable little girl, Holly, finds himself returning to his past and his estranged family.
Frank, along with his grown siblings, and the Murder Squads Scorcher Kelly ( Broken Harbour, Book 4) begin to wonder what really happened to Rosie Daly?
It's another atmospheric character-driven story, featuring Frank Mackey, the Dublin police detective that French first introduced in The Likeness.As a nineteen-year-old boy, Mackey was living in Faithful Place, one of Dublin's poorer neighborhoods, jammed into a tiny home with his brothers, sisters and ever-battling parents.
And along the way, he will discover some hard, shocking truths about himself and the people of Faithful Place.In addition to being a compelling suspense novel, this book is a powerful meditation on the nature of family life and on the obligations that one either assumes or has forced upon him simply by the act of being born into a family.
Rosie disappeared in 1985 on the night she'd planned to run away to London with Frank, who's always assumed his gal had a change of heart and left the country without him.French sets her mystery into motion with all the color, wit and mystique we'd expect of her streetwise characters.You won't find Faithful Place unless you know where to look.
While French is ostensibly writing murder mysteries, she is also writing thoughtful psychological profiles of a detective heavily involved in the case.
In Faithful Place we dive into Undercover Detective Frank's history, following him as he is drawn back into drama from a home he left decades ago.
French is brilliant at capturing the mood of a place and time, wrapping it up in a small snow globe--and then shaking it up on the unfortunate lead character.
Overall, however, the writing and character development shines, and I will undoubtedly read French's next book.
What French does best is ally you with her character's deepest wishes, and I was very involved emotionally in her other stories.
Frank, on the other hand, is a swaggering divorced cop with an estranged family and lost first love, but what he misses in this story is his divorced wife and child, cutting off the powerful melancholy that French harnessed in her other work.
French's strength as a mystery writer is her nuanced characters and layers of understanding, but as they were lacking in this story it was doubly disappointing to figure out the killer early, which incidentally never happens for me.
Tana French's books are so good they can always pull me out of a reading slump.
"Faithful Place" is the third book in her Dublin Murder Squad series, and it centers on the life of Detective Frank Mackey, an undercover officer who has a reputation for breaking the rules.
I got to feel the riptide pull of my life spinning around me, one winter night, while I waited in the dark at the top of Faithful Place.""My father once told me that the most important thing every man should know is what he would die for.
The first part of this book is actually quite slow, plus it's pretty thick and for a while there I felt I was getting nowhere fast.
(view spoiler)[Why did the police not see Frank as a suspect?
I kept waiting for this to be referred to and on page 231 he was finally suspected by a few gossipy neighbours, no more than that.
(hide spoiler)]All that apart it is an excellent story, well told and full of interesting characters.
I suspected the actual murderer from almost the start of the book and was satisfied when I found myself to be correct:) Well worth reading if you enjoy mystery and crime.
Razlog za to je pre svega njen jedinstveni stil, pristup temi koju obrađuje i savršena karakterizacija likova bez koje smatram da ni ne vredi pisati trilere - a u čemu ona apsolutno dominira.I "Kobno mesto" kao i prethodna dva romana, odlikuje spora i razvučena radnja, ali upravo to i daje poseban šarm i unosi potrebnu dozu neizvesnoti.U ovom romanu narator je jedan od njenih najbolje portretisanih likova do sada, Frensis (Frenk) Maki, detektiv Tajne jedinice dablinske policije.
You see, Frank Mackey here investigates the disappearance of his first love who he for over 20 years thought dumped him and ran away to England.
This is probably the main reason why Faithful Place is my favorite of Tana French's novels, at least for now.
Not quite the picture you get after reading Fever books.On the other hand, the mystery in this novel is probably the most straight-forward and obvious.
I knew (well, guessed right) the perp probably by the middle.It doesn't take away, however, from the fact that Faithful Place is, if not a strong mystery, a very personal, very nostalgic, very tender story...
REALLY GREAT, although I feel like it could have been a bit shorter.
I really liked seeing a more personal side of Frank, but just also just one one of Tana French's characters in general.
I feel like I understand Frank best out of all of her protagonists so far, and I really wish I could read about him some more.
Book 2 is still my favorite in the series as of yet, but this was a great addition (although I feel the whole "murder case which is somehow linked to the detective's dark past" trope is getting old.
Can't wait to read Broken Harbour!
At this point, after reading Faithful Place I am pretty much an official Tana French fangirl and am afraid that all further reviews of her work will be reduced to inept gushing over how, like, totally awesome her novels are.
These glowing reviews are also gonna include rants about people who dislike her books, how they are stupid fecking eejits who clearly aren’t reading these books the right way ;)Seriously, though there are quite a few reviews of Faithful Place here on Goodreads which criticize French for making protagonist Frank Mackey sound too much like a woman, and not enough like a cynical, divorced, undercover cop.
I was fascinated with Frank when I encountered him in book two “The Likeness”, and I was happy to learn more about him, his life, and his background in “Faithful Place”.One of my favourite parts about this installment was the family dynamics.
Being with a typical working class Irish family that Frank’s is was a delight, and hearing how they spoke and how they behaved was deeply fascinating to me.
All in all, this makes for a great crime read with an emphasis on a character study, and I’m very eager to continue on with this series and read about Scorcher next.
I've now read the first three books in the Dublin Murder Squad, and this is the best so far.
I found myself reading with an accent!
I love Tana French's turn of phrase: Ma grabbed the "soft skin of Frank's arm with a lobster pinch." He caught "his sister's eye and sent her the superurgent sibling distress signal." I also became immersed in the culture of Faithful Place, with noisy, nosey neighbors, dysfunctional families hiding secrets, and teens trying to escape dismal lives.
What happened to Rosie Daly is the biggest secret, and Frank does eventually put all the pieces together.
In Faithful Place, the third of the batch, we get Frank Mackey, whom we met in The Likeness as Detective Cassie Maddox’s undercover boss.
Francis, who left Faithful Place more than two decades earlier, is finding that out the hard way.
Frank left Faithful Place and eventually joined “the Guard”.
Now we learn what growing up in the Place was like, and why Frank has never returned.
In addition to Frank’s family, former friends and neighbors in the Place, I also liked I Stephen Moran, the young detective that Frank enlists to keep him up to speed on the investigation.
People Lie; Evidence doesn't"My official look whenever I'm reading a Tana French Book This third installation focuses on Undercover agent Francis Mackey ( one of my faves in this series ) He is drawn back to his childhood hometown Faithful Place, when he gets a call from his sister informing him that his first love Rosie Daly; suitcase is found. He, because of unanswered questions from his past, is reluctantly but inevitably drawn back to the place that he has successfully ( for twenty plus year
People Lie; Evidence doesn't"My official look whenever I'm reading a Tana French Book
This third installation focuses on Undercover agent Francis Mackey ( one of my faves in this series ) He is drawn back to his childhood hometown Faithful Place, when he gets a call from his sister informing him that his first love Rosie Daly; suitcase is found.
I always get all Sherlock Holmes when I read her books and I swear that this is me while I read and try to figure out who done it...Tea and all peoples *Wink Wink*
Επειδή αυτό το βιβλίο με προβλημάτισε λίγο όσον αφορά το τι βαθμολογία θα του βάλω, θα χωρίσω τα χαρακτηριστικά του σε θετικά και αρνητικά. Οπότε έχουμε τα εξής:Θετικά. 1. Όμορφη αφήγηση.2. Ωραίος λόγος- γλώσσα.3. Ενδιαφέρουσα ιστορία.Αρνητικά.1. Ο κεντρικός ήρωας μου ήταν ιδιαίτερα αντιπαθής. Συμπλεγματικός και εγωκεντρικός.  Πχ. γυρνάει στον τόπο του μετά από 22 χρόνια που δεν θέλει να έχει καμία σχέση με κανέναν, ούτε με τους γνωστούς, ούτε με την οικογένεια του ούτε με τα δύστυχα αδέλφια του
Επειδή αυτό το βιβλίο με προβλημάτισε λίγο όσον αφορά το τι βαθμολογία θα του βάλω, θα χωρίσω τα χαρακτηριστικά του σε θετικά και αρνητικά.
Ενδιαφέρουσα ιστορία.Αρνητικά.1.
Συμπλεγματικός και εγωκεντρικός.
3.	Πολλές πολυσέλιδες παλινδρομήσεις στο παρελθόν (οι περισσότερες περιττές και ιδιαίτερα κουραστικές για εμένα)4.
(Τον βρήκα πριν διαβάσω το 1/3 του βιβλίου και όχι δεν είμαι διάνοια.
Αυτό με χάλασε αρκετά.)Εν κατακλείδι, θα μπορούσα να του βάλω κάτω από τρία αλλά είχε τόσο ωραία γλώσσα και πραγματικά το πιστεύω ότι η French είναι μια πολύ καλή συγγραφέας, άσχετα από τον αν αποφάσισε να ακολουθήσει τέτοια διαδρομή στη συγγραφή του βιβλίου της.
By the third novel, it's clear Tana French has a formula for this series:1.) A personal crisis will engender a professional ethical crisis for the main character (although the series is called "Murder Squad" some of the protagonists work undercover, which Frank Mackey takes pains to explain in this book is way cooler than homicide.)2.) Each successive book in the series has a new protagonist who were introduced in a previous book.
Had I not read the previous two French novels, it would have been harder to stick with the first 80 or so pages which were too suitcase-centric.
Tana French does an outstanding job of setting the tone, setting up the main character, Francis Mackey, as the now long suffering middle-aged detective haunted by an event from his past.“…Over more than half my life it had worn itself a nice little corner in my mind, like a bullet lodged too deep to dig out; I didn’t feel the sharp edges, mostly, as long as I didn’t touch.”I couldn't help but fall in love with Frank Mackey, and find out his story.
I wanted a pint of Guinness.Faithful Place wins a spot on my "favorite book" list, and Tana French as a new "must read" author.Excellent story and highly recommended if you enjoy mysteries.
This author’s writing style?Characterization?This story was stunning, poignant, and beautifully written. Even the last page left me breathless and grinning from ear to ear!▣ Thoroughly enjoyed!
This series is just brilliant! I think Tana French thrives when she focuses on the interior lives of her protagonists, rather than focusing solely on the procedural aspects of the crimes. This was a perfect blend of that and it was so much fun to read but also heartbreaking. I love complex, emotional stories and mysteries so she delivered with this one. Better than book 1 but not quite as good as book 2. Still highly recommend this series though. 4.5 stars
I have read two books in this series, Book #1 In the Woods and Book # The Likeness - I liked both of them but I must be honest and say that Book #3, Faithful Place, didn't do it for me.I didn't connect with the characters and I found Frank Mackey, the main protagonist (who we met in the previous book) really cold and remote.
I just could not engage with his character.
In fact, I couldn't engage with most of the characters in this story.I also guessed who the baddie was pretty quickly.
