https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2159387.Hindutva
I was upset at this, and did not want the rich literature, art and culture of our country (which is Hindu in nature) to be abandoned to favour minority sentiments.However, as the ruling centrist-right Indian National Congress weakened, the BJP grew in power: and its cries of Hindu pride grew shriller.
Christians and Muslims cannot be accepted as Hindus (according him, this means Indians) unless they accept India as their Holy Land, by forswearing their allegiance to their “foreign” origins – this effectively means abandoning their religion in the current format.-------------------------------------------------Thus, the philosophy strikes at the roots of secularism.
Trust me you wont find a single positive thing to ever hear for Savarkar from either left wing (communists, marxists, maoists, garbagists...whatever) or money funded missionaries (he who salivates at the mouth at the thought of fresh young converts conned into his abrahmic faith) or...the jehadi terrorist or sharia peddler (the propenent of the most vicious, anti-civilizational, retrograde, genocide committing, dead body piling, death cult ideology known to man in entire human history).
The same forces who plot the destruction of hindu India and dream its replacement with a communist state or islamic sharia ruled subcontinent or demographically altered cross bearing christian state still recoil at the thought of Savarkar.
It's a hate manual.After reading this book,I smell Nazism and I hate that smell!Hindutva is a malign
Great book of hindu culture
A great book. An absolute must read for all Hindus. Crystal clear conception of who a Hindu is, what Hinduism is, and how Hindutva is the over-arching umbrella for the former two.
the same term which being beaten thousand times by leftist, communist, regionalism bigot, Dravid ideologist and western pseudo liberals as a communal ideology.
Let's start the show:-Savarkar "Hindutva" gives a unique answer for the problems of India which is a regionalism, language diversities, Dalit atrocities.
He said, Islam and Christianity shall be identified as foreign religion and adherent of both faiths has to be welded with Indian ness like Jews, Parsis been welded during the course of time.
Acknowledgement of their ancestor faith as Hinduism will over come to the identity crises amongst people of Islam and Christianity.
If the holy land and Father land are different ones for the people living in India or for that matter for the people of any Nation, the allegiance of such groups is torn between these two extremes.
For Hindus India is their Holy land and also their Father land.
That it is a common misunderstanding to use the term Hindutva interchangeably with Hinduism, which should not be done.
Hinduism is only a derivative of Hindutva.
Even if one is an atheist, as long as one agrees that this land is his pitrubhumi (Father land) he is still Hindu.
Clean, clear and concise!
Future of Hindus are grim. Whether Hindus could survive another 100 years? Can they resist attacks from slimy christianity and violent islam? Hindus must consolidate by throwing away all nonsense secularism, all religions equal bla bla... and stand to establish Hindu Rashtra. The words of these books, the thoughts of Shri Savarkarji is becoming more crucial day by day.
Great presentation of a philosophy, backed by humongous research work. A Must read for every Indian and every Hindu!
Gives a complete idea of who Hindu is, Hindu a nation first
Hence, Hindutva is an inclusive concept.In this book Savarkar talks about loyalty to Pitrabhumi(Fatherland) and punyabhumi(holy land).
But the problem is for some of those people who converted to foreign belief, their holy land outside India have temptation to place allegiance towards their holy-land over and above their father land is possible, it is precisely for this reason we have today Pakistan and Bangladesh which is created out of India.Remember Tukde Tukde gang(communism), that’s what he is talking about.
He ask for allegiance towards holy land as well as fatherland.You will always see low rating in this book.
जहरीली और खतरनाक| तथयों से पूरी तरह दूर| भरमित कर देने वाली और हासयासपद सतर तक आतममुगध| भारतीय जनमानस और सामाजिक सौहारदर के लिये बेहद नुकसानदायक|
जहरीली और खतरनाक| तथ्यों से पूरी तरह दूर| भ्रमित कर देने वाली और हास्यास्पद स्तर तक आत्ममुग्ध| भारतीय जनमानस और सामाजिक सौहार्द्र के लिये बेहद नुकसानदायक|
This is one of the most influential books of modern India.
It is the origin of Hindutva as an ideology.
Before beginning this book I prepared myself and gave all concessions.
Let me sum the book up in these lines that appear towards the end of the book.
Only those whose pitrubhumi (Fatherland) and punyabhumi (Holy land) this country is, are the real Hindus and real India.
All christians and muslims are expected by Savarkar to accept the superiority of the Hindus.
Yes Hindutva is fascist.
Let me read Mein Kampf and decide.
After all I am a Hindu and an Indian but not a Nordic Aryan.
This is a very important work of ideology, underpinning the current wave of Hindu nationalism in India. Thus, this is a must-read for every rational Indian who wants to understand the Hindu nationalists and their motivations, regardless of his personal ideologies and convictions. My 3-star rating is for the shabby presentation as such and hence is a meaningless number! Rating an ideology, however flawed (or not), using a number would be ridiculous. :) For an attempt at rationally treating the ideology - https://thearavindhk.blogspot.com/201...
This is a must read for anyone wishing to understand the theoritical development of the concept Hindutva.
Savarkar was a man of superior intellectual prowess; the reasonings with which he advanced in this book seem solid.
But with much alertness one can ultimately see that his ideology unavoidingly falls into the pit of racism and xenophobia.
To counter such a mind, an proportionate mind of intellectual prowess is needed.
We simply cannot dismiss the concept without first understanding what it really has to offer.I would also recommend, to the reader of this book, reading Savarkar's biography.
His life quite explains his ideological developments.
wtf
