https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/597251.The_Poseidon_Adventure
We played "Poseidon Adventure" with our Barbies.
We played "Poseidon Adventure" with the Deitch boys from across the street.
"Did you know it was a BOOK before it was a MOVIE?" he asked.
I began to realize that many of my favorite movies had been books first.
But that was my own fault.)"The Poseidon Adventure" is my most-read book.
I'm pretty sure it wasn't, but I was young and in love -with a movie, a book, and the idea that in a world before VHS and DVD, I could "rewatch" my favorite movies whenever I wanted simply by "reading" them.
The characters are: the Reverend Dr. Frank "Buzz" Scott, a former All-American football player turned preacher, who believes in a muscular, almost secular Christianity, where God is the Coach urging us on; Mike Rogo, a NYC detective who hates blacks, homosexuals, and everyone else; Linda Rogo, his awful, foul-mouthed, one-dimensional wife; the Shelbys (Dick and Jane (ha ha), son Robin, and daughter Susan), the typical family from the mid-American Heartland, with a pristine facade with rotting foundations; Hubie Muller, a rake; James Martin, a haberdasher (seriously, with all these similar names, it got annoying); Manny and Bell Rosen, the bickering Jewish couple (natch); Nonnie, the waifish showgirl; Pamela Reid, the girl drunk; and Tony "the Beamer" Bates, the guy drunk.
In fact, when American novelist Paul Gallico (July 26, 1897 – July 15, 1976) released The Poseidon Adventure in 1969, it did not generate much interest as it was seen as a lame version of the RMS Titanic story.But I liked the movie Titanic of Jack and Rose in 1997.
They climb their way through almost everything turned upside down: from inverted Christmas tree, to the 2- story stair, elevator cable, Hollywood hallway, etc.This book is a mixed of drama and pulsating adventure.
Most are probably familiar with this story about a group of people in an upside-down cruise ship thanks to the classic adventure movie that's based on it.
The book is more salacious and brutal than its famous film adaptation.There's a heavy focus on the thoughts and discussions of the characters, sometimes at the expense of what's actually happening on the ship - I had to re-read more than one action scene to understand what was going on.
The women of this book still frustrate the hell out of me.To be fair, all of the characters are complex, flawed, and not entirely admirable.
I think that perhaps my adult fascination with cruise ships was strongly influenced by it.
The idea of a cruise ship turning upside down was so damn surreal, terrifying and compelling creatively, I couldn’t get it out of my mind as a kid.
Back when I was twelve, I read the novel, and loved it.
I picked it up, and it’s been sitting on my shelf ever since.
IT’S AWFUL!
No matter how awful it is, I’m sure I’ll read every last word.
So I suppose this book is my “Twilight.” Paul Gallico had a concept.
Having done it in reverse order this time, I was interested to see how much the film held to or diverted from the book.The Poseidon Adventure is the story of a huge cruise/cargo ship that is full of passengers on a 30-day cruise taken over the Christmas/New Years holidays.
Once the boat settles, things stop exploding high above them in the bowels of he ship and things stop crashing and falling all around them, and realization hits that most of the passengers have died instantly, the survivors in the dining room gather to assess their situation.
A genuinely bad book. Loaded with sexism, obnoxious characters that you dont even care about, and a really stupid bit where a woman is raped and seems oddly okay with it.
Pretty much like the movie. I kind of liked this movie better.
I was surprised at this. A far better book than I expected. I had always loved the movie, but now I see why they made the movie. This book is fantastic.
While the film followed the book's plot fairly closely -- the screenplay shuffles around a few major events and pares away some characters -- the two properties are very different in tone.
It isn't merely a case of these people being flawed and having to find their individual strengths or rise above their weaknesses, which is how the movie presented them.
Scott is an especially frustrating character because the reader never fully learns what it is that's driving him.
In addition to the obnoxiousness of the characters, the book fairly drips with anti-Semitism, misogyny, and homophobia.
But believe me, this is a rare case where the movie was better than the book.
It's kind of a sick fascination to be so awed by what is, by most estimations, pretty much a text-book definition of a "cheap thriller".
I'll leave the spoilers there; suffice it to say, it differs substantially from the 1969 film (and bears only a passing resemblance to the 2006 "Poseidon", while we're at it).
The action takes place (mostly) in the space of under three hours, which gives the author room to breathe and set his characters (and readers) down, every now and then, for a little well-earned rest.Final keynote: a brilliant holiday book - for dry land.
But without giving too much away here are a few examples of how the film improves on the book:- The overturning of the ship is a greater spectacle in the film because it occurs during a larger event.
In the book, there's time for the entire group to nap and for two characters to have sex TWICE.- The ending of the film is positive.Some comments on the book's ending -- again, without giving too much away.
One of the biggest differences between the book and the movie is the tone.
But I do prefer the movie's message to the book's.After all is said and done, I enjoyed spending more time with these characters and following them through "new' adventures.
But the men are awful too: mean, brutish, drunk, weak – all except for the maniacal Reverend Scott, who's awful in the most interesting way.He's like the personification of the American bootstrap social mobility philosophy – only by force of individual will can his band of survivors pull themselves up to safety.
Rev. Scott has a real "He'll only slow us down…" attitude that reminded me of the cave-diving disaster film Sanctum 3D, in which people are summarily abandoned to their deaths with injuries that look no worse than paper cuts.The 'adventure' is gruelling, made even more so by the characters' mean-spirited bickering and intense self-loathing.
(hide spoiler)] The 1972 film adaptation removed some of the worst aspects of the book, including making its ending more heroic.
There was nothing like this property.
Nothing like it since 'The Rains Came' and 'The Hurricane'.
Book AND movie!
The one every other project subsequently, copied.One of those instances where the adaptation swaps in and out with the book.
In the book, crazy chapter headings like, 'Up the Down Staircase' and 'Top of the Tree'.
Gallico was an unusual writer; knew his role as storyteller but had a definite yen for the seamy.Oh yeah to hell with how the PC crowd wants this all revised.
Go see the putrid remake if you want sanitized reality.
I really liked this book its interestin they route from New York City to Greece on New Year's Eve, majestic passenger ship the S.S. Poseidon is overtaken by a tidal wave.
With the captain (Leslie Nielsen) dead, surviving passengers, including the passionate Rev. Scott (Gene Hackman), band together in the ship's ballroom.
My brother told me to read it he said its pretty cool its adventure it quite scary I felt that thisis like titanic a big ship gets drawned when the big wave slam it under water and then that man and ladie survive but I think this book is awsome I suggest you should read it.
Leí la novela después de haber visto sus tres adaptaciones cinematográficas, pues la verdad es que me gustaron muchísimo.
La obra en sí no está mal y conoces mejor a los personajes que en los filmes (obviamente) pero el problema oscila, quizá, en lo tremendamente visual que es todo, aspecto en el que sobresalen las películas (pese a que la última, fechada en el 2006, presente a unos personajes diferentes).
Ha sido interesante conocer la novela que inspiró a una de las películas clásicas más aclamadas de los años 70, sin duda, pero no me ha marcado tanto como yo esperaba.
A very good story of a group of people, who band together, determined to survive, after the ocean liner SS Poseidon capsizes when a rogue wave hits her. The cause-a huge undersea earthquake which turns the ship upside down, making the will for survival, that much harder!
Interesting book on human spirit. Many of the people just completely gave up and wouldn't even try when the ship sank, but others were going to do whatever it took to at least give themselves a chance. Way too many dead people for me, though.
The first mature novel I read (age 14 or 15 I think). Read the book, then see both movies. The book is much richer and tauter in how the survivors made it out.
Very good book adaptation of the movie. Recommended
A classicA true classic so well know by the iconic 70s film, but the book goes much deeper and explores human behavior and the human heart.
The most interesting thing in the entire book is the cover.

Soy muy fan de las películas de catástrofes/secuestros de los 70 (Pelham 123, El coloso en llamas, La aventura del Poseidón), y he leído las novelas en que se basan.
No es que ella sienta que han invadido su intimidad, es que parece tener miedo de decírselo a su padre por si la mira de manera diferente (¿mercancía dañada, quizá?) y para colmo ella acaba consolando a su violador y desea haberse quedado embarazada.
A group of survivors get organized around a policeman and a priest (the reverend Scott), and ascend wearily, by following air pockets, to the part of the shell where is found the propeller, hoping to find there an exit.
Just a small group follows the parson and the policeman who estimate that the salvation is found while going to the rear (return to sources, the History): only this group will be saved.
The group that will be saved will be that who follows the parson .It will be put in safety by climbing a Christmas tree (religious reference = Jesus= moral model).
Thought I knew this story.
Yes, the cruise ship turns over and yes, a small group has to climb up to the ship’s bottom.
But after that the movie was not the book.The characters in the book are not very likable for one.
I think the author was going for how surviving a disaster can strip ordinary people to their naked selves (inner and outer).But the actions of the characters seemed oddly driven at times.
Odd reaction for that character.
Anyway, other than some of the group getting rescued, this book does not rely on usual story-telling tropes.
Perilously close to four stars, as I'd definitely read this book again, but there's only so much misogyny and casual racism ("But it was a different time!") you can forgive.
The physics of tipping a ship over are beautifully explained, as are the concomitant upside-down navigations, and people die in elegantly spooky ways.
Sometimes they don't die spectacularly, they just...
die.
The characters are complicated and multidimensional, which is always going to win my heart, and there's definitely some attempt here to interrogate stereotypes: the all-American sports hero, the delicatessen owner, the fat lady, the naif.
This book is iconic, but not great literature.
I’m not sure whether the weakness in the book is through age (the book was written 50 years ago) or just poorly conceived stereotypes and flippant plot points.
I’m leaning strongly to the latter.
The book is famous for its concept, an overturned liner and its passengers trapped and working their way through an upturned ship.
It’s here where a great imagination takes hold and stands the test of time.
However, the book also includes character backstories, motivations, dialogue, and side action.
All of these elements in the book are poorly executed and quite callous in delivery.
Good book. I've seen both the original film and the remake from 2006 with Kurt Russell, which are based on this book, and I thought that they were both great, though the original is a classic that cannot fully be compared with the remake, as the remake had a $160 million budget to work with, unlike the original (unfortunately, that budget was its downfall). The book is definitely closer to the original film, and I loved it. Hope to soon own a personal copy of it.
FictionI had,of course, heard of the Poseidon Adventure but I did not see the movie. When I realized it was written by Paul Gallico, I bought it immediately and found that the story was engaging and worth reading. I was pleased with the story and wish that more of his work was on Kindle.
