https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1315744.Doraemon_Vol_01
Plus, there are tons of moral lessons to be learned by the end of each chapters so no excuses about how reading (children's?) manga is a waste of time.
I grew up with doraemon, so did my friends and family.
If you're looking for a fun read, search no further doraemon is the one for you.
I guarantee it will definitely light up your day, it sure lit up mine :)p.s There is a reason why doraemon is considered by many as one of Japan's most beloved national treasure :p
5 saoCòn đánh giá nào khác nữa sao :)
His classmate Gian frequently bullies him, and Shizuka, the girl Nobita likes, has placed him firmly in the friendzone.Nobita’s grandson’s grandson uses time travel to come back to his ancestor’s elementary school days.
Dad posts Mom’s letter, gets the response and gives it to Mom, who is happy, while Nobita and Doraemon go out to actually mail the letter and complete the time loop.The kids play around with the Pre-mailer a bit, including Suneo, the spoiled rich kid who is generally Gian’s sidekick.
This allows Doraemon and Nobita to create a miniature town in the back yard for all the kids to play in.
This series is a TREASURE! Future generations will still be reading it, loving it, learning precious things from its simple yet perfect story. The young ones will keep it like a Holy Bible. The old ones will love it like a music box, a reminder of the sweet memories in their childhood, a friend who helps them to teach their children about friendship, courage, love, nature, science,....Yeah, Doraemon is definitely timeless.[image error]
Doraemon adalah komik favorit saya... ngga pernah bosan baca ulang. Bapak Fujiko F. Fujio benar2 dapat memahami khayalan anak2, punya teman (doraemon) yg bisa diandalkan u/ mewujudkan keinginan2 yg terkadang aneh & absurd. Sampai skrg, kalo lihat komik doraemon di rak toko buku, saya berhenti sejenak untuk mengingat2 nomor berapa yg saya belum punya (hilang), kalo ketemu langsung beli :)
Hai hươc va sang tao, cam đông va gân gui, chăc chăn se chăng co đưa be nao lai noi răng no không thich đoc Doraemon ca.Nêu no co noi thê trên tivi thi chăc chăn la đoc theo kich ban thôi ~
Hài hước và sáng tạo, cảm động và gần gũi, chắc chắn sẽ chẳng có đứa bé nào lại nói rằng nó không thích đọc Doraemon cả.Nếu nó có nói thế trên tivi thì chắc chắn là đọc theo kịch bản thôi ~
This is my greatest, loveliest, funniest adventure series of all time.
There is no book or comic compared with Doraemon.
I remember I read Doraemon since I was very young.
Doraemon therefore inspired - also inspires - me to creating my own world and starting writing.
Sometimes I repeat enjoying this series and remember how warm my heart was when I was young, I am blissful.
Unsurprisingly, I am never bored every time I drink this Fujiko F.
This is so freakin' awesome.I'll get the bad news out of the way first -- these releases aren't full volumes, but rather comic book sized chunks (about 35-40 pages each), and if the Wikipedia list of chapters is correct, they're in mixed up order.
Because Doraemon is just that awesome.For those unfamiliar with the series (i.e., most Americans), imagine Back to the Future told from George's POV.
Only the Doctor is a giant blue robot cat, and he and George (err, Nobita) go around having these cool Calvin and Hobbes style adventures.
If that doesn't sound awesome to you, just go back to reading Doonesbury, you unfeeling grup.
Cheesy as hell, yet at the same time so god-damn entertaining that I just can't help but seldom wish I were in the Doraemon universe.
I mean, how many manga or books for that matter made with children in mind have you seen tackle time travel paradoxes, the Russian Roulette game, what humanity might look like in a hundred years, fill in the blank, all in the cleverest ways that you can imagine?
Only the late Fujio could do that and no one else could.Recently I've been picking up some Doraemon volumes.
This book from japan.
This book was my favorite one .
Doraemon is a series about a robotic cat named Doraemon.who travels back in time from the 22nd century to help a schoolboy named Nobita Nobi.
Nobita Nobi he like sleep he always sleep at class he is lazy boy.
When someone hurt Nobita he always called Doramon to help him out.
Doramemon like to eat bread.
Doraemon hat people say he is cat.
but he don't like people called him like that.
And Doramemon he can make anything like magic something.......
This book is so cool.
you should read this book!!!!!!!!
I want to improve my English reading skill so I find Doraemon English version to read. Infact I've read almost Doraemon commic in Vietnamese and this kind of commic uses simple words. Therefore I can easily understand the whole content is mentioned in that books. The drawing is very nice, the content is nearly with the normal daily life. Doraemon have a lot of marvellous belongings. Nobita is very clumsy. Chaien is violent, Xeko is a talkative boy and Xuka is very lovely - she special like having a shower, eating the sweet potato.
i first watched the anime when i was still like 6 years old or something. and i suddenly fell in love with the robot cat.it took me to this manga. and love the story. i always dreaming of having doraemon on my side together with his cute little bag which can give whatever tool that i need. umm... just having the bag is enough for me, actually.
waahhh doraemon enggak ada matinya dehhdari kecil ampe sekarang, tetep suka..hehejadi inget masa kecil dulu deh, suka nangis teriak2 gthu kalo hari minggu bangun kesiangan dan gak nonton doraemon yang jam tayangnya gak berubah ampe sekarang, Jam 8 pagi..hehehemau.mau banget punya penghenti waktunya doraemon, biar bisa tidur siang lama.hehe
betapa beruntung Nobita memiliki Doraemon yang setia di sampingnya. Nobita bisa meminta alat apa saja untuk melakukan apa saja. sayangnya, dia selalu saja ceroboh untuk menggunakan alat itu demi kebaikan. bayangkan bisa Doraemon itu benar-benar ada huhuhuhu, aku pun akan membelinya dengan segala daya dan upaya.
What can I say about this. This is my childhood. I'm a dreamer because of this !! I am and always will be the optimist, the hoper of far-flung hopes and the dreamer of improblable dreams
I've seen so many references to this, including in new publications, that I guess I must read it for cultural literacy.
This is my love!I've read it when I was a little boy. It became 1 part of my childhood.Very honest, peaceful and simple stories.Please enjoy it to improve your imagination.
i love it..i love it..never ending story about nobita and doraemon.until now i'm still watching it, ups..because i lost the comic books so i don't read it anymore..but i stil watching it every sunday morning at 8.00 a.m in RCTI oke (hayah)one thing that can wake me up every sunday is doraemon..aku ingin beginiaku ingin begitu...oiya gua punya e-comicnya yang edisi terakhir..ketika doraemon harus pergi dari nobita (karena rusak dan baterenya habis)juga punya movienya (flv file kalo gak salah) yang menceritakan satu hari sebelum pernikahan nobita dengan shizuka.. its so touching meskipun guagak ngerti bahasa jepang selain arigatou ma oishii..
Inget komik..inget doraemon! ini komik zaman baheula jg udah ada kali ya, hehehe. blm bisa baca aja udah buka2 komik doraemon dan udah seneng bisa ngeliat gambar2nya karena kan waktu itu udah ada filmnya juga yang bertahan sampe sekarang.dibanding dengan manga sekarang, doraemon masih lebih baik, biarpun geregetan juga ama nobita yang ngga gede2dan sifat malesnya terus melekat. Ayo siapa yang mau bikin komik yang lebih mendidik dari doraemon?
Komik jepang (manga) pertama yang aku baca & aku punya. Tentunya versi Indonesia. Dulu waktu kelas 1 SD, aku dibelikan komik Doraemon ini seri 16, di kios bunderan UGM (sekarang udah digusur). Lucu banget. Aku suka & mulai ngikuti serinya. Cuma sayang, beberapa koleksiku "dipinjam" temenku & sampai sekarang belum dikembalikan....
Doraemon was my first comic book when I was childhood. I Had collected All series from doraemon comic. Sadly, one by one, the comic was gone because my friend borrow the book and he forget return the book to me. But, Overall Doraemon was the best comic book ever I had.
Happy, but at times sad. Sweet, yet sometimes bitter. Advanced gadgets clashing with age-old beliefs. This book enables a mere kid to experience the full gamut of human life. Doraemon had departed its humble beginnings and become truly an epic.
Komik Jepang pertama yang gue punya!! DORAEMON memang nggak ada matinya. Benar2x membantu kita berimajinasi dengan segala macem barang di kantong ajaibnya, dan membuat kita berkata, "Andai saja ..."Gue sampe beli bonekanya. Sayang keponakan gue telah menculiknya ... hiks hiks hiks ...
Gua ga tau kenapa tokoh ini bisa awet ampe sekarang. Dari gua SD ampe sekarang ini komik masih gua baca. Ceritanya emang sederhana. Inti yang gua dapet, segala sesuatu yang didapat dengan cara instan, tidak menjamin hasil yang baik. Semua harus melewati proses.
i have many collection of Doraemon manga since was a child. This Manga is never be bored me, eventhou i read repeatedly. Not just the Mangas, i love the anime too and the movie. Doraemon .. daisuki ....
Lucu dan mendidik... Buku ini pantas untuk dianjurkan ke anak2... buku komik pertama yang mengajarkan anak2 berbagai ilmu sekolah dengan cara yang berbeda... Belum lagi berbagai pesan2 tersirat di tiap akhir cerita pendeknya... amazing...
Komik sepanjang masa akan ttp dgemari...tua muda,, kakek maupun cucu pst akan jth hati dgn si robot kucing yg px segudang keajaiban...n btw diantara smua keajaiban doraemon..z pengen skali pinjem "mesin waktu" sekali sj...hmmm n what about you??
Waktu saya kelas 3 SD, Nobita kelas 4 SD.Waktu saya kelas 4 SD, Nobita kelas 4 SD.Waktu saya lulus SMP, Nobita masih kelas 4 SD.dan ketika saya lulus SMA,kuliah, bekerja, you now, what...hey Nobita still in his 4th graduate...Doraemon benar benar setia sama Nobita.
Doraemon made my childhood. The first time I've read it for a long time, when I was a four-year-old girl. However, Doraemon, Nobita and their stories is always in my mind. If I forget them, I'll forget my childhood memory.
bacaan wajib manusia yang hidup pada zaman gw sd..hehhe..early 90,,,dulu sih, fantastik banget,,gw suka manga ini , coz, lot of imagination,,,pada zaman buku ini ada di indo dulu, belom banyak buku2 yang sejenis,,so, it was really amazing to watch and read this DORAEMON!!!
