https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/171001.She_Said_Yes
There is one big problem with this book: the event that caused it to be written turned out to have been a misunderstanding. Cassie never had the chance to say yes, so the martyrdom never happened.And yet the book is surprisingly well written, an engrossing and insightful read. That event is actually a relatively small part of the book, and the rest is quite winning. There is a whole lot here to love.Of the Columbine memoirs I've read--which is most of them--this one is the best.
I have to say that i was very suprised by this book.
I was expecting it to be a sappy story about how perfect Cassie was and how God took a perfect angel and all of that.
I was really suprised at how "real" Cassie was...that she had her own troubles and really struggled to fit in and find herself.
She wasn't a "holy roller" or a "Jesus Freak" but rather a troubled girl who was just starting to really find herself.
Overall, a very touching story that needs to be read by any teenage girl who is having a rough go of things.
Then, back in April, I found out that Cassie’s “martyrdom” was all a lie, and I wanted to read the book again to mind myself of exactly what Bernall lied about.Once I finished the biography/autobiography, I started discussing what really happened with my father, and we both came to the conclusion that, (a) as Bernell said, she wrote this book just weeks after her daughter’s death and didn’t have all the information about what really happened, and (b) if she did know the truth maybe, just maybe, Bernall needed a reason that made her daughter’s death the teeniest, tiniest easier to deal with, that made her daughter’s death seem like it was serving a higher purpose.Other than that, and now that I know the truth, its hard to understand why I was so enamored with this book.
Bernall says she doesn’t want it to be that way, but it has this kind of God-transformed-my-daughter’s-life-what-has-he-done-for-you kind of air.
Such an amazing story only to finish in death. This girl is a hero and is now with her Savior because she said yes.
I think the only book I hated more was that steaming pile of word-vomit called The Da Vinci Code, but my hatred for that is due to the fact that Dan Brown is a hack who should have his hands crippled lest he ever write again, whereas I hate She Said Yes because I find it morally repugnant.
Jesus H.The thing is, though, what bothered me most about this book was not Misty Bernall making money off a senseless tragedy that claimed so many young lives.
No, what bothered me most about this book was Misty Bernall.
I forgot all about this book until someone mentioned it earlier today.
I was a senior in TX when Columbine happened but I am from Colorado and had family here.
I've been back in Colorado for over 14 years and have lived fairly close to Columbine for the last 7 yrs or so.
Honestly, it's really weird to drive by it, go to Clement Park, etc.
My step-nephew actually attends the school.Anyway, I read this somewhere between 2001-20013.
It was sad of course, but you felt close to this family and the events.
I had a hard time determining, at certain points, whether this was a memoir or a Christian book.The thing that bothered me the most out of everything in this book was that Misty Bernall never once admitted the possibility that her daughter could have depression — despite publishing the very notes and letters Cassie wrote saying she suffered from depression!
It's appalling.Besides the underlying church motives, and the self-blaming depression denial (and I'm not even going to mention the fact that Cassie probably didn't even have the title conversation with the shooters), I think this could have been a good memoir of the Bernall family's grief and anguish and what their daughter's memory meant to them and how they were both moving on personally and helping to prevent these things in the future, etc., etc.
And as I reflected on the quality of the writing and the story that was attempted to be told, I wondered if I could have done any better just a few short months after the tragic loss of a child.
I wonder what the book would have been had the author given herself some time and space from the event.
That being said, I didn't learn a whole lot about Cassie.
There was a lot of preaching in the book.
Considering the fact that this entire book is a lie, I refuse to read it.
Val Schnurr was the actual survivor that said yes (three different accounts prove that Cassie did NOT say anything before being killed.) Misty was spoken to privately before the book was published, yet still decided to go public with her lie.
You take the cake, Misty, for most manipulative Mom of the decade, for spewing an untruth to spread your religion, and make a profit off a lie.
(Thou shalt not lie, anyone?) I find the fact that the self proclaimed Christian is lying (and thus, sinning) about her own child.
1. Plot summary: The novel She Said Yes, by Misty Bernall is the true story of a young girl who was shot and killed in the Columbine shooting. The story is written by Misty Bernall, mother of Cassie Bernall, Misty tells her daughters story and life. Misty goes through all the life struggles and ups and downs throughout Cassie’s life, and also Cassie’s transformation of when she found God. The novel is considered “an unlikely martyrdom”, and has been reviewed by many different types of press, fro
1. Plot summary:	The novel She Said Yes, by Misty Bernall is the true story of a young girl who was shot and killed in the Columbine shooting.
I don’t understand how Cassie could be so strong, and how two boys could be so sick and disturbed to go and kill twelve innocent people, just because they were angry.
I really liked this quote because it seems very real to me and I can relate to it, because I don’t believe you can succeed or grow without struggle or failure.In one of Cassie’s favourite books she highlighted one key passage that also struck me and made me think about my own life.
She Said Yes is an amazing book! I would recommend this book to ANYbody who wouldn't be bothered talking about death, satanic subjects, drugs, alchol, God, etc. It tells how a young, 17 year old girl, gets caught up in drugs, alchol, Satan, and pretty much the wrong crowd. Her mom puts her into a private school, and then allows her to attend Columbine. The tragic Columbine event happened as she was attending. Her short, 17 year, life ended for believing in God. If you want to know the rest, read it! I promise, you WON'T regret it!
I bought this book today, read it in four hours, and wanted to write my review instantly.I was already aware that it's been determined that Cassie's story may not be entirely true.
Cassie was not the girl asked if she believed in God, and the girl who was didn't give the famous confident "Yes" everyone is in a roar about.But I still wanted to read this book anyway; and I'm glad I did.Though this book doesn't offer the true story, it does offer a spiritual story of a girl who finds God in the time she needs Him most.
Her mother wrote the book and talks about the morning and how she watched her daughter go off to school, just a few hours later, Cassie was gone.
This book talks about how Cassie had went through a rough time in her life and often thought of suicide.
This book talks about a young girl's personal snare through her faith and her family's love .
Deals with: Suicide, Life, God, Love, Family, Friends, School Shooting
"She Said Yes" was one of those books that i had a hard time putting down.It is one of the most amazing stories to come out of the shooting at Columbine High School.A 17 year old girl by the name of Cassie Bernall was one of the 13 killed along with Rachel Scott, and 11 others.Like most teenage girls, Cassie Bernall didn't really tell her mom much about her life once she turned 17.
After Cassie died, her mother, Misty Bernall, found multiple letters written to and from one of her friends.
I bought this book and finished it - all today.
I found it eerie that although I didn't know, I picked this book up on the anniversary of the shootings at Columbine.
I can't even begin to tell you how in awe I am of how it was exactly what I needed to hear today.
God works in profound ways.
I think we are all a little bit like Cassie and like Misty (her mother) said, her story did not end when she said yes.
Her story (and most importantly God's story) continues on into what we take and use from her story.
I enjoyed this book, and it actually made me question my own beleifs on my own life, how I act around my parents, friends and basically everyone I know.
This book even made me question my beleifs in god, and religion in general.
Although we think that when a martyr is named we don't always know their whole back-story and what they have gone through in their life.
I respected Cassie Bernall that much more after completely reading through this book.
It was a little repetitive at times, but it was a good read and I would recommend it to anyone.
Wow. This book was so sad.
It was amazing how her life was, but it was so sad.
She was only 17 when she was murdered.
She never got the chance to go to college, or even graduate from High School.
She was never able to get married, or have kids or have a life.
But she died for a worthy cause.
How many people would have said "Yes" if someone put a gun to their head and asked them if they believed in God?
I recommend this book, but if you get really emotional over sad stories, this is one of them.
I found this book to be a bit boring. I feel terrible saying that and only giving it one star, but as someone who is interested in the victims of the Columbine tragedy, I found it to be disappointing. I felt as if Cassie's mother wrote this to make a buck off her daughter. I might be wrong, please don't be harsh. It's just my opinion
This book talks about what Cassie did in her life and when she was gone how family and friends got over their loss.
Cassie’s family and friends all joined in to write about her, and how she changes from being and unbeliever to a strong Christian.
Friends told how Cassie affected them during her life and her death.
At the end of the story Misty (mother of Cassie) and Brad (father of Cassie) gives us the story of their daughter.
They said “… Cassie’s story is not only mine and Brad’s.
She Said Yes is the story of Cassie Bernall, a 17 year old girl who was killed in the Columbine High School shooting.
The story is told by her mother and includes the last few years of Cassie's life and how she had gone through a complete change in attitude.
I felt that the mother telling the story, Misty, was pleading with other parents to be more involved in their children's lives from the beginning so that when they begin to come into contact with negative things and influences they will be comfortable coming to them for advice and guidance and acceptance.
"Behind the scenes of Cassie Bernall's martyrdom is a story that will chill the heart of every parent - but also bring a strong gust of hope."A quote from the book:"It is also easier to get angry, to point fingers, or to lose oneself in what the media calls the 'larger' issues.
Or are they?""The more I think about it, the more certain I am that, political and public as the broader discussion might be, we cannnot forget the equally vital role of our more personal efforts to prevent tragedies like the one that claimed Cassie.
This is a book that really took to me when I was younger.
It moved me and made me think about a lot of different things I hadn't before.
Now,as a adult it's moved me in different ways because now I understand what I didn't back then.
This book is based around the events following after the Columbine shooting back in April 1999.
She also goes back and talks about how her daughter Cassie's life was overtaken by the wrong crowd and how she almost lost her daughter.
This is what all lead to the move to Columbine for Cassie.
The young girl Cassie Bernall that got shot and killed in the first columbine ever in Columbine High School was a very innocent young girl.
Meanwhile Cassie responds "no" thinking its the write answer to not get shot in the head.
Seconds later the trigger is pulled and Cassie Bernall's life ended on that very day with a bullet wound right to her head.
This book caught my attention and never wanted to put the book down, I would highly recommend this book to anyone interested in books like this one!!
The book is an easy read, however it is obviously a controversial one.I liked the insight of the adolescent and if it's fiction, then it is (which people claim that it may be).
I recently read Looking For Alaska by John Green, which is a YA novel, and I loved it purely because it deals with subjects that parents don't want to hear about - drugs, alcohol, smoking, fitting in, and so forth.
The controversial subjects of what Cassie may have been dealing with are the ones I care about (fiction or not).A friend mentioned that her parents may have been capitalizing on a tragedy - but it just adds to the potential problems of the book.
She Said Yes: The Unlikely Martyrdom of Cassie Bernall by Misty Bernall is the story of Cassie Bernall, and how she was brave enough to stand up for her faith in the face of literal terror and death.
And her mother wrote this story to talk about how her daughter came to her faith and became the woman she was when she was murdered.
I disagree with a lot of the personal choices that Misty and her husband, Brad, made throughout the book, especially when it came to Cassie's clear mental state.
a book was made, therefore immortalizing her...
I read this book in one day.
That means it both kept my attention and was an easy read.
Though it was a bit scattered in form, it was still a very engaging true story showing what it's like to be on the inside of a tragedy like this.
(We see so much violence of that kind today, it's unbelievable.)But more than the actual shooting, the book focuses on the life of Cassie Bernall, and the dark struggles she experienced before her untimely death.
An inspiring, though at times sad story of redemption, bravery, and tough love.
I'm glad I read it.
I've read this book several times over the years and I always walk away with the same sentiment of sadness and hope. This is a true story as told by the mother of one of kids gunned down in the Columbine massacre. Her daughter Cassie has a rebellious streak during her teenage years and later finds God who changes her heart and ways. Ironically though, one could say her belief in God was the thing that made her a victim in the shooting. It has the feel of a coming-of-age tale cut short.
The book She Said Yes was a book that grabbed my attention not only because I knew what the Columbine shooting was but also because of the title. I was automatically wondering what she said yes to. Seeing how Cassie transformed from someone that was an extremely troubled teen and became a devoted Christian it really inspired me. I enjoyed every single page. The book showed that Cassie would never deny God for any reason, no matter what it may be.
She Said Yes is one of my favorite books now. Its about a girl who died in the shootings at columbine high school all because she said yes when they asked her if she believed in god. This book really made me think about what I would say if I was in that situation and also where I stand with god. This was an awsome book and I think everyone should read it because you will definatly have a different perspective on life after reading it.
I've read a lot of books regarding the Columbine tragedy and this book is on the bottom of the list. I found it to simply perpetuate myths and force feed faith to readers. While I feel for both the victims and their families, I found myself unable to find a true connection here. Read this along with Brooks Brown's "No Easy Answers" and Dave Cullen's "Columbine" and compare.
