https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1880165.The_Science_of_Being_Great
In the latest installment of "Heidi re-listens to all the old audiobooks on her hard drive", I gave The Science of Being Great another chance to share its wisdom with me.Couched in religious language, Wallace Wattles shares his new age viewpoint long before modern audiences became enamored of it with the mammoth success of The Secret.
"The world is in a perfect state of becoming." Maybe I've become too accustomed to looking for problems rather than relying on faith that everything is working out how its supposed to.Other parts of this book sounded similar to more modern new age authors with these ideas: Books and people will be drawn to you when you need them.
:| I couldn't relate almost any of the stuff to science.There were a couple of nice insights, though, for example, the author argues that everything and everyone we see, are in their perfect state, striving for getting better and better, and that's how the universe has been working.
For instance, he says that we cannot say locomotives fueled with coal are bad, no, they were great in their time and laid the foundation of modern transportation.
Hence, people we encounter, no matter how bad their manner might be, they are perfect and are on their way to sophistication.
Toward the beginning it's very... philo, so you really have to focusfocus when you read, but then it gets more easily digestible and freaking AMAZINGLY inspiring. This book is going to be my constant companion. If everyone read this book, and practiced this book, there would be world peace. I'm just saying.
An old classic self-development book enhancing being great despite of your wealth and/or your physical abilities.The writer relates greatness to God and his attributes, which, in some sense, is correct.
Kindly watch this video to understand my point of view.
In this video, Jeffrey Lang, a mathematician, shows how he answered one of the most controversial questions, and how he relates it to Allah's attributes.Jeffrey Lang VideoAlthough the writer's objective seems thoughtful and quite appealing.
What is actually the writer's view point.
As I traveled thru the beautiful Oregon country this week I enjoyed this audio CD from the library. I was able to take many things from this book and hope to apply them in my own life.The two most important:1. The world is a perfect place.2. ALL people are good with different struggles.Great book!
Theres so much wisdom packed In this little book. Excellent read.

A book is supposed to be scientific. Well, it's not. The author suggests that everyone is same and all human beings have the same potential. Guess what ?! We don't. The writer tells us that we can be same and we have to develop our potential so we all can be Einsteins. I suppose he has not heard about personality and individuality. And also IQ.
So he says to begin today to be great in your own home and office...in all relations, be just, generous, courteous and kind.
Your habit of deliberately thinking and acting in the best way you know how will cause you to continually grow until you become a great person.This is a very quick read, but a very inspiring one.
AMAZING...PROFOUND & LIFE ALTERING! I read this book at least twice a year.
I enjoyed this book a lot. It's one that would make a great graduation gift. I plan to implement a lot of the Wattles' ideas, especially the mental exercise outlined in chapter 21.
I was curious what a self-help book from 1911 would read like.1.5 stars for lolz and for causing me to briefly ask myself - "Wait, are you skeptical or cynical?"
highly recommended for any Wallace D Wattles fans - I love all his work, and this was NO exception! To Our Continued SuccessWaseem Mirzahttp://www.WaseemMirza.net
Wattles weaves succinctly and quite masterfully through many important aspects of living well: Having a unified positive mental outlook, building and living a stern and cohesive concept of self, knowing the difference between balanced helpfulness and harmful 'altruism' and leading a life of example.
I also appreciated his balanced and positive approach to religion and metaphysics.
His writings regarding religion are specific to Christianity, however the applications he derives from his religion can for the most part be extended to all religious philosophies.
I found I was able to relate and derive helpful insight from his religious writings by approaching them a more general/metaphysical filter.

Librivox'da görünce otobüste, metroda falan dinlerim diye indirmiştim, YAPMAYIN! Vakit kaybından başka bir şey değilmiş. İsminde bilim geçmesine rağmen bilimsel yöntemden epeyce uzak bir kitap. Çoğu bölümünde İncil'i veya Tanrı'yı referans göstererek alakasız neden-sonuç ilişkileri sunuyor, %90 200 yıl önce doğru olduğu düşünülüp günümüzde yanlış olduğu ispatlanmış bilgilerden oluşuyor.
The Science of Being Great is a spiritual journey to self-actualization. It is a clear, meta-cognitive exploration into how our thoughts, visual impressions, and view of the world shape what we experience in life. This book is a giant within the self-help/personal development genre.
Although it consists of somewhat interesting suggestions and a few inspiring thoughts, I consider this title to be a quite misleading and I don't appreciate that. Religion is not science and it shouldn't be hiding itself behind that name.
A thoroughly motivating text.Enjoyed throughout.Recommended.
Great book
Reconfirmed the sayings of other great writers... Man is made or unmade in the armoury of thought
God read
“ .... one must have calm and strong view to its own perception.... “quit hard to read, intense line of thoughts but def interesting concept of self development.
trash.
I intend to read everything written by Mr. Wattles over time.
Its philosophical and no science! The author is being very very philosophically blunt! Listened to this audio book on my drive back! Easy read! Perhaps an easy self help book for starters!!
The Science of Being Great is to know what you need to do and then do it.
Wattles grants the same message all of the other greats have told since the beginning of time: set your ego aside, and people will like and respect you.
This wasn't as good as the other self-help books. I liked how it define greatness as your service for others.
Indeed, Wattles believes that “Greatness is equally inherent in all, and may be manifested by all.”** The one shortcoming with this book, if one can call it a shortcoming, is that the title uses the word, “Science” and while this term may have been appropriate at the time this book was written, there is no scientific exploration in this book.
Personally, I am very grateful for the information that the author shared and I was not disappointed that this book was not based in science; however, for those who prefer a more scientifically oriented literature, I do not believe that this book would meet your requirements.**
