https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/413.Mason_Dixon

Thus, this is equally a love story about the America of the present, and the parts of it that have transitioned or survived from its past.Separated Not by a Line, but an AmpersandWhile there's a long list of characters, Pynchon primarily tells his tale through the eponymous Mason and Dixon (as witnessed and related by an "untrustworthy Remembrancer [nevertheless possessed of] Authorial Authority", the Reverend Wicks Cherrycoke).
It is not an easy read being set in the eighteenth century; Pynchon uses the language, idiom and spelling of the day.
Pynchon mixes real historical figures with fantastic creations, oddities, rumour, and myth and in the centre of it all is the portrayal of a friendship in the form of a glorified road movie.
A mere review cannot do this justice and eventually (probably when I retire) I will have to read it again.At heart it’s a simple tale of two friends and the birth of a nation narrated by Cherrycoke (very American!) and laced with fantastical humour and philosophical musings
Bored with the Edna St Vincent Millay of Savage Beauty and tired of the endless formality of complete names in Love in the Time of Cholera, I fished Thomas Pynchon’s Mason and Dixon out of the box it came in weeks ago.
Sat down, stirring sugar into the tea I intended to drink while I read, and dropped my spoon.Page 1: What kind of madness is this??
Oh My God. I’m tingly.
I don’t think.
But I think I like it.
Dear God. Is the whole thing like this?
If it goes on this way till the end I may come to loathe it.Page 773: Yes. This (thus far) lovely torture is intended to continue.
I read the last page.
I have wanted to read this book for a long time...and it definitely lived up to anything I could have hoped for.
Well, I made the decision early on to read the book slowly and this worked well for me.
I came to look forward to returning to it and picking up Charles and Jeremiah's journeys to track the Transit of Venus, to perform various surveys, and then for their ultimate task, the line that is still marked and which I recall crossing on a trip several years ago.This is highly recommended to those who enjoy an epic with a very definite difference!
Pynchon has been, for me, an acquired taste, but like fine wine, once you acquire it, you wonder how you missed the beauty for so long. Sure, there are still moments (mostly the jokey ones) that I find a bit flat, but here in Mason & Dixon, his first work after a long publishing hiatus, Pynchon is at his best. It's written in a made-up "Olde Style" of writing (it's impossible to do it justice in a review), but it actually works. At least it worked for me. I found the story utterly engrossing and a real intellectual joyride.
This enchanting novel is the first one that pops into my head when people ask me, “what’s the best book you have ever read?” ------------------------------------------------Original review from 2014 below: I am Jeremiah DixonI am a Geordie boy A glass of wine with you, sirAnd the ladies I'll enjoyAll Durham and Northumberland Is measured up by my own hand It was my fate from birth To make my mark upon the earth.He calls me Charlie Mason A stargazer am I It seems that I was born to chart the evening skyThey'd cut me out for baking bread But I had other dreams instead This baker's boy from the west country Would join the Royal Society.I was listening to one of my favourite albums of all time ( Sailing To Philadelphia ) when I got the idea that maybe I should read some more Pynchon.
The still present elements of the mystic are contrasted with the age of reason and enlightement; melancholic and meditative Mason is contrasted with jovial and euphoric Dixon, and like Laurel and Hardy or Don Quixote and Sancho Pansa they venture to explore the weird frontier of America, where they meet a selection of historical characters, which at the time were not famous - but in history they will be: Benjamin Franklin of Philadelphia, who enjoys being accompanied by women of suspicious reputation and entertains his guests with conversation; George Washington of Virginia, who is partial to smoking hemp and munching on cookies baked by his wife, Martha, and enjoys being entertained by Gershom, his wisecracking slave servant; Thomas Jefferson is in the right place to overhear Dixon's toast to the "pursuit of happiness", and ask if he might borrow it.
I know most folks will say that Gravity's Rainbow or the more accessible The Crying of Lot 49 were his great works, but I felt that M&D just was such a beautiful story.
The coming together of these two most opposite personalities and their adventures across the native forests and rivers and wildernesses that because what we now know as America was compelling and fascinating.
In terms of narrative, it is one of the most straightforward of Pynchon's works (and believe me, that is saying something for one of this length!), and has a great host of characters and high-flying adventures of all sorts.
Video-review: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NBxFK...Featured in my Top 20 Books I Read in 2016: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4X6OQ...Pynchon's most ambitious novel might very well be his masterpiece - a flawless pastiche of 18th Century language, compelling characters, wondrous adventures and brainy reflections, everything soaked in Pynchon's trademark mixture of high&low, serious&ridiculous, bitterness&hope. Not especially easy and not a good starting point with Pynchon, but truly a must read if you're into either-Pynchon-Contemporary Lit-18th Century Lit-Imaginative Fiction-Masterpieces.

To sum it up in two words, "Mason & Dixon" is, overwhelmingly phenomenal!
Rather than write a review, because how can you review Thomas Pynchon’s work.
The Vroom sisters messing with MasonHere are some lines in which Mason is on a ladder because he is locked out  “With no more than precarious hold upon the Balcony, Mason now feels activity beneath his Soles, and looks down in time to see the Ladder being deftly abstracted and taken ‘roud the Corner in malicious fun by Jet, who for some reason is feeling underappreciated today.
Cada vez que los topógrafos se separan, se topan con espesuras, ciénagas, pesadillas, pero cuando están juntos avanzan por el aire, están unidos a las estrellas...  ¡La novela histórica más histórica que he leído en mi vida! Una lección de historia impartida por Thomas Pynchon (aunque cabe aclarar que hace usos de anacronismos y de la más pura ficción, como puede ser un perro que habla). Es un libro complejo, algo que es característico en el autor, pero si no se tiene sabido un mínimo del conte
Cada vez que los topógrafos se separan, se topan con espesuras, ciénagas, pesadillas, pero cuando están juntos avanzan por el aire, están unidos a las estrellas...
Una lección de historia impartida por Thomas Pynchon (aunque cabe aclarar que hace usos de anacronismos y de la más pura ficción, como puede ser un perro que habla).
Con respecto a otros temas, es preferible hacer sus respectivas averiguaciones si algo no se entiende o impide que se prosiga la lectura; en caso de no surgir ninguno de esos problemas, es mejor dejar que Pynchon los enseñe.
The tale is unfolded in an affectation of Olde English which doesn't distract nearly as much as you might expect, and the prose itself is never as impenetrable as portions of his IMO greatest book, Gravity's Rainbow, proved to be.
By the time I was near finishing the latter, I was burned-out, Pynchonwise, and desperate for characters with believable surnames; and despite my great enjoyment of its abundant pleasures, I probably didn't partake of M & D with the appreciation that it truly deserved, nor linger long enough to fully capture—at all levels—its plethora of Old and New World charms.
Sve ono unutra izleti u svet.
Tako ovde postoje automaton patke sa fetišima, vanzemaljci, džinovska svesna uva, duhovi, kolonizatori napuštenih jedanaest dana, crni pakleni psi, golemi, feng šui džedaji, i mnogo drugog, sa sve Bendžaminom Frenklinom koga je struja udarila jedan put previše i Džordžom Vašingtonom kao trajno napušenim svodnikom.
On priča priču kako ga porodica ne bi izbacila napolje, na zimu; porodica podjednako životna kao i on sam, ali ne toliko mudra – jer samo kod Pinčona lik sa takvim imenom može da bude jedan od mudraca.
Ali on ipak može da priča o svemu, jer, kako kaže: 
This is where we begin with our two heroes, commissioned to observe an astronomical event from the Dutch colonies in what is now South Africa.
The melancholy Mason and the more jovial Dixon make for comic tension immediately as they survive a naval scuffle and the sexual advances of Dutch colonists' bored daughters.The narrative continues to follow the title's characters as they travel to the American colonies to demarcate the line which bears their name.
Pynchon's use of imagined worlds, narrative interruptions, and strange characters serve him superbly in this large work.
A through-the-roof masterpiece.
Most of all, the writing quality is so evenly elegant throughout this opus maximus that its supreme and sustained intelligence is the signature of a writer of Nobel Prize stature.
Only a handful of writers in this era are capable of writing metafiction at this lofty level -- Gaddis, Gass, Theroux, Barth, Donleavy and Bellow.
Is Pynchon as brilliant as Nobel Laureate, Bellow?
"Carpe carpum." Do yourself a favor and seize this brilliant, carping novel: someday its cover shall bear the seal of the Nobel Prize for it is a "magnetick" American Iliad -- a shimmering and timeless Flower of Light.

--Uh, Thomas, I tried.
I read and re-read Chapter 23 over the course of three days.
Now, I admit, alcohol was involved.
But nevertheless, that has usually accentuated my appreciation of art, not blocked it.
--(If I would ever deign to actually talk to you) That's my genius.--Your, uh, genius?--Yes, you idiot, haven't you read the other reviews here?--Indeed I have.
It takes true brilliance to obfuscate like pesto-riddled, bubonic-addled, Sub-Zero refrigerators, weeknights at the Tilted Kilt with your brother, sartorial splenditudes of dripping....What 'Oh...but then...surely my Wikipedianess has browned your landscape.......You aren't worthy of me.--That's why I made a special shelf for you.
FINISHED!!!
Despite the ridiculous length of time that it took me to finish this, I really enjoyed it.
The only thing that I would really recommend is to not read it on a schedule.
Do it when you're not watching a clock or trying desperately to finish.
It's a book that should be explored rather than read.
Unfortunately I focused on just continuing to turn the pages and keep reading and I think the experience suffered for it.But it was still a really great experience :) I was hoping for a bit more info on the actual Mason-Dixon line but it was more about the partnership of the two men.
Reviewers didn't help: Either they were boys thrilled by his postmodern toys (ooh,shocking, he makes a dig at Clinton with the joke about not inhaling; hacleverha, the narrator is called Rev. Cherrycoke)or they were acolytes in awe who clearly didn't quite get what he was on about(all those postmodern master comments and references to particle physics).
Interestingly no review I've read of Mason & Dixon has referenced events past page 50.
Reading his books isn't about parsing every line or nodding at every reference, it's about the experience of being caught up in a world outside our own consciousness and individuality.
Mason & Dixon is Pynchon's most moving novel, a panoramic view of the Enlightenment-gone-human.
The author's cozy narration, performed in sometimes anachronistic 18th-century vernacular, lends a playful flavor to this buddies-tale and enhances the mixed-brow humor that makes Pynchon great.As the tale unfolds, as readers we are continually challenged in our preconceptions of the Age of Reason.
It is this relationship, given with such stirring deftness, that really makes this book Pynchon's best.
The opening pages are as magical a beginning as any I can think of, as good as Bleak House, and every time I thought of getting rid of the book I'd look at them and knew it absolutely had to stay.
)However (ii) If you're comfortable with eighteenth century British and a bit of American history, with reading the accent and dialect of north-east England, and have a smattering or more of knowledge about geography, astronomy, as well as * whisper* superstitious esoterica like feng shui and astrology, it might well be the right place to start.
Mason & Dixon was written recently enough that the news may not yet have caught on (how long did it take for Moby Dick?), so I will tell you now that it is the book.
Upon finishing Pynchon's novel, I was seized by no desire greater than to turn back and read it again.
I must confess, however, that Pynchon takes a lot out of me and I require long breaks consisting of reading "easier" books.
But, like any great novel, it requires as much from you as you hope to take from it.
I miss Mason & Dixon.
I'd bring it into work everyday and read as the computer dialed the numbers of strangers for me.
I'd read all Pynchon to this point and like the rest of the world was ecstatic that he followed the disappointing Vineland with a fat historical tome compleat with strange Spelling and Punctuation.
Pynchon really makes Mason and Dixon come alive, probably based on reading a handful of their journals and some research into the era.
Somehow he spews it like it was always up there, all the facts you'd need and plenty more, up in his Nog. Anyway, anyone who's been waiting to read this, now is the time.

Mason & Dixon wander through the dark sewers of the Euro-American enlightenment, Through far flung island colonies, dank old world taverns, the bizarrely rendered wilderness of young America etc., everywhere they go they encounter a world in the throes of transitioning from an older, confusing age to a newer, even more confusing one.
Pynchon's Olde Englishe writing style is easy to grasp (especially if you've read Neal Stephenson's Baroque Cylce, which owes a very strong debt to this work) and both the prose and narrative focus are much tighter though no less sprawling and wide ranging than in his previous books.
It it also a novel about stories, astronomy, astrology, Quakers, Jesuits, slaves, huge rolling cheeses, werewolves, revolutions, mechanical ducks, and (lots and fucking lots) of coffee; in short, the front flap, which is likely Pynchon's own words, doesn't lie, and this is a prime example of what Alexander Theroux calls 'more sheer stuff per page'.
It is a book that somehow tries to find 'the fork in the road', as Gravity's Rainbow sez, where a nation took a wrong turn and lost 'the single set of coordinates from which to proceed'.
Re-read. There really aren't words to describe the beauty and genius of Mason & Dixon. It's the sister novel to GR and everything it is not: warm-hearted, fuzzy, munificent...A blend of Dickens and Twain alchemized through the insane genius of, in my estimation, the greatest and most imaginative writer to ever walk the Earth. Don't let the size scare you. It's an easy and ridiculously enjoyable romp. Pure m-a-g-i-c-k. In the absolute vanguard of the best books ever written and an embarrassment of riches.
