https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1372926.Dark_Benediction
Matheson had some great ideas but was not a particularly strong writer, Miller was the whole package.There are of course a lot of themes common to the genre present but the execution is always thorough and competent, and execution is what ultimately matters.
It's a pleasure to feel Miller flex the muscles that develop into what becomes his ultimate exercise, the little-known but well-awarded "A Canticle for Leibowitz." And that's important because these stories are really the only other things he ever published.
Unlike his life, this story has a fairly upbeat ending.Probably my favorite of these narratives is "Anybody Else Like Me?" which chronicles a psychic housewife's first encounter with another of her kind.
Standout stories include Dark Benediction,Anyone Else Like Me,The Lineman and The Will.
My personal favourite was Conditionally Human.The stories show their age when it comes to the sometimes poorly written female characters,but this is still a great collection to pick up,for a snapshot of some of the better SF shorts of the early 50s.If you enjoyed this,you might like the short stories of Robert A Heinlein,Damon Knight and Robert Silverberg.
If you especially enjoyed the short story Dark Benediction,you'd probably like Jim Starlin's Among Madmen,Spider Robinson's Telempath and Richard Matheson's I Am Legend.
there's a story in this about a sentient rocketship called "I, Dreamer" which is just beautiful, i loved it so much. the rest of the stories don't quite reach that height, but there are many that come close. "Dark Benediction" and "Blood Bank" spring to mind. miller is very smart, about people and technology and the ways they interact, and is a fine writer of prose who not only always follows the emotional conflict, but always follows it through to the end, every single time. that is a rarity not only in science fiction but in fiction in general.http://articles.orlandosentinel.com/1...
I believe each of these stories were written in the 50’s, and because of that there is a dated aspect to the technology. Luckily, true human drama and the exploration of fears and motivations will not become dated until we are all perfect and exist with no existential angst. Even the lesser tales were hip deep in quality prose and an exploration of the daily quandaries experienced by humanity. Nothing particularly sexy or thrilling, but definitely a rock solid collection.
Is it just me or does it look like there's a bunch of sperm on the book cover?A Canticle for Liebowitz is a very clever book with some really powerful dialogue, descriptions, and an awesome setting. This collection of short stories is more entertaining though and still has a similar depth to it. I think it's harder to write in the short form and still provoke strong emotions.
It illustrates the idea that a sci-fi story’s setting need not be blatantly futuristic, it can be quite modest in fact, but it’s the small references that build it up and make it thought-provoking.The Will (1954) The Will again gives a human story like that presented in You Triflin’ Skunk!, this time exploring both a child’s fear of death and a foster father’s discomfort in handling that death.
It’s not explored here in nearly as interesting a way as in A Canticle for Leibowitz, instead Big Joe and the Nth Generation is the pulpiest story in the collection, with flat and boring characters that are stock archetypes and that participate in by-the-numbers action.
He is not a futurist, whose interest is to look forward into the future and predict what the world would become; instead, a person who looks back in the past and apprehend the inner of human race, actually as the same thing that Arthur C.
It must be considered one of the major works assigned for readers who want to penetrate into the miracle of the world of science fictions.In my personal choices, I like the stories 'The Will', 'The Big Hunger' and 'Dark Benediction'.
Though it is better tasting all without missing a word than choosing only two or three stories to read.After finishing this one, I'm looking forward to tasting his classic 'A Canticle for Leibowitz'.

A collection of 14 short sci-fi stories by the acclaimed author of A canticle for Leibowitz.
I specially liked four of them:1.
The story providing the name of the book, an apocalyptic tale on how our so-praised civilization could fall down upon the menace of a leprosy-like illness.
A chant to love and hope.2.
A story with many sides: you can consider it as an attack against abortion, or as a defense of legitimate fight, or as a rehashing of possible futures of artificial intelligence and genetic manipulation.3.
A horrifying story about the use of a child's brain to control a military ship.
What I liked about this collection of short tales is the fact that each one had a different feel and
All the stories contained in this collection are of a consistently high standard. Miller put across a decidedly humanistic approach to his work that dwelt upon the individual not conforming to the 'herd' mentality, that all of us by are actions can have an effect upon the whole.Miller's stories are never overtly technical, so you could basically sit down and enjoy a good read. I especially enjoyed the two tales of the sentinent spacecraft, but basically there are no weak stories contained in this collection. Recommended.
An excellent collection of stories by Miller, very many of which I thought were worthy of A Canticle for Leibowitz. I particularly liked his more philosophical works, such as I, Dreamer, The Will, and The Big Hunger. A few of the stories are your more basic sci-fi fair, but overall they are typical of his moralizing and thoughtfulness.
This collection of short stories by Walter M Miller Jr is a fascinating read and a great exploration of sci-fi writing in the 1950s. The majority of the stories age well, read well, and are great fun to read. Fans of short fiction will definitely get a kick out of this, and should also check out A Canticle For Leibowitz for a book length tale that is every bit as entertaining.
Just what I needed. Lovely dose of old skool sci-fi...
Miller is a good storyteller.
Often sticks to a formula: red blooded male protagonist with technical skill or pluck maneuvering a dystopian world.
Sometimes there is a desirable girl.
Sometimes there is a cynical commentary on liberal economics and liberal politics.
Sometimes Miller's Catholicism makes an appearance, adding some metaphysical depth to his created worlds.
Now to rate the stories themselves: You Triflin Skunk (1*)The Will (1*)Anybody Else Like Me?
(1*)Crucifixus Etiam (3*)I, Dreamer (1*)Dumb Waiter (2*)Blood Bank (3*)Big Joe & the Nth Generation (2*) [cover illustration] The Big Hunger (1*)Conditionally Human (2*)The Darfstellar (1*)Dark Benediction (3*)The Lineman (1*)Vengeance for Nikolai (2*)
Miller is not an author that has a happy medium for me. When he is on, he is brilliant. The stories are classic and eternal, beautiful and true. But when he's off, the story just falls flat on its face, made decrepit by time and stereotypes. With that said, most of the stories in here are good ones.
A collection of short stories from the author of the more famous A Canticle for Leibowitz. Take into account the stories were all written in the early 50's for the shallow personalities of the female characters, generally the stories are interesting and well written if similar to many other science fiction shorts over the years.
Canticle for Leibovitz, Miller's signature work, is one of the seminal works in sci-fi (and a big influence on subsequent work, like the television program Babylon 5). He's a strong short story writer - lots of great content here, with Conditionally Human my #1 in the collection.
Miller even plays with the audience in one short story (The Darksteller) which includes this gem, "A crowd that wants it overplayed so that it doesn't have to think about what is going on.
A crowd that doesn't want to reach out for a feeling or a meaning.
It wants to be clubbed on the head with the meaning, so it doesn't have to reach."Additionally, it is fun reading (though very verbose) because many of the story aspects/themes would later be adopted, updated and produced in movies or other Sci-Fi literature.
For instance:In his story "The Will" he writes:"She waited a few seconds for me to say something.
When I couldn't say anything, she dropped the basket of clothes, scattering underwear and linens across the kitchen floor."Now that is some piece of good writing.
Nothing fancy there, surely not some great passage worthy of literary appraisal, but here is the thing: Obviously the woman is angry.
The result is more vivid.Imagine the above passage to be like this:"She waited a few seconds for me to say something.
The result is more blunt.Great stuff, if you haven’t read Miller before, you should definitely give it a shot.
A long time ago, more than thirty years in fact, most of my reading was science fiction.
A lot of this was not very good but every now and then a book would stand out from the crowd.
One of these standouts was A Canticle for Leibowitz by Walter Miller.So when I saw a collection of Millers short stories and novellas at the bookshop the teenage me shouted grab it from across the years.This is an adequate collection of stories with some interesting themes but not a great book.
Intriguing, and I am glad that I read it, but I had not missed much
I'm a huge admirer of A Canticle for Leibowitz and, perhaps more unusually, of its sequel too. I suppose I was looking for more of the same, but the heights are only sporadically hit and the wonderful melancholy, resigned tone isn't that often in evidence. Most of the first half of the volume is perfectly decent but not particularly wonderful 50s SF (with, it must be said, some questionable gender politics). The better stuff is in the second half. Highlights were "The Lineman", "Vengeance for Nikolai" and particularly "The Big Hunger", which could be the proto-Leibowitz.
It needs a lot more fish if you ask me.
About 50-50 in terms of originality.
I read 3 of the 14 short stories: 1. You Triflin' Skunk! 2. The Will 3. Dark BenedictionDark Benediction was the only one I liked. I'm generally not a fan of short stories.
I just can't get on with short stories, its like they aren't quite good enough to grow up to become novels.
Best of Walter M.Miller Jnr., The by Walter M. Miller (2000)
Generally good set of character-driver scifi short stories from the 1950s, but don't read the final story "The Linesman", which features some shocking misogyny.
