https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/590962.Mr_Willowby_s_Christmas_Tree
An adorable children's story about a big Christmas tree that Mr. Willowby buys, but it's too tall for the room.
The top part is cut off and given to the maid, where it's also too tall for her room.
She snips off the top part and throws it away, but it's found by the gardener who takes it home.
Then that top part of the tree is cut off and is found by a happy bear, and so on...The book was first published in 1963 and it does seem like a classic Christmas story.
I would highly recommend it for parents.
I Love this timeless, children's Christmas classic.Christmas tree, oh so grand - home to hearth, hand to hand, lop . . . lop . . . lop, tree top to tree top, stand to stand. From Mr. Willowby to Mistletoe Mouse, the perfect sized tree for every creature's house. Merry Christmas, indeed. 🎄FIVE ***** Timeless and Beloved, Children's Christmas Classic, in Rhyme. ***** STARS
It's easy to see why this little treasure remains to be a Christmas treat since its debut in the 1960s.
(I love that I am not the only one who thinks Mr. Willowby looks like the Monopoloy man!) It's the sort of cumulative tale kids love--when Mr. Willowby's gianormous Christmas tree is just a bit too tall for his mansion, he has the top chopped off and gives it to his maid.
It's almost the right size for her room but, oops, the top is just a bit too high so off it comes.
This is one of the books I used to read to my children when they were little and I found it again as I was decorating...Mr Willowby lives in a grand mansion and so, naturally, orders a grand Christmas tree.
The butler solves the problem by cutting the top of the tree off.
So, naturally, she cuts the top off.It is quite charming as Mr Willowby's Christmas tree continues to be trimmed and trimmed by people and forest creatures until everyone has a tree that they are happy with and that fits.
This was one of my favorite Christmas stories growing up. I was fascinated by how many animals were able to get a Christmas tree from pieces of this one tree, and how the trees and animals kept getting smaller and smaller. It's so nice to see this classic still in print, and to own it both in print and as an ebook. Highly recommended for the yuletide holidays!
Mr. Willowby's huge Christmas tree is delivered but it's too tall, so he snips off the top and gives the top to the maid. Everyone just keeps snipping the top off and discarding it until even the mice have a tree that suits them just fine.
I believe this classic should be read because I loved every moment of it from the illustrations to the craziness of the story.Mr. Willowby's is getting ready for the arrival of his Christmas tree and when it arrives it is utterly marvelous in appearance and right for the occasion.
As the famous expression, "One man's trash is another man's treasure" truly takes to heart we see different people and animals deal with the same dilemma with the same piece of tree that Willowby cut.
I highly recommend this book for children or for the parents to read them this story because it such a heart warm and a true Christmas book.
When Mr. Willowby's Christmas tree arrives at his mansion, and is just a tiny bit too tall, there is only one solution: to cut off the top!
But, Mr. Willowby realizes that the cut-off-top would make the perfect Christmas tree for his maid.
The grateful maid soon realizes that the tree is a tad too big for her room, so she chops off the top and tosses it.
and so on.A great little rhyming story with charming illustrations that are whimsical and warm.
But really, that is *incredibly* picky and overall I thought this was a sweet story and very heartwarming.
This book is one of my favorites for the Christmas Season.
I read it to my children since I loved reading it as a child.
Sharing is of paramount importance in this book, but you are not knocked over the head with it.
I recorded myself reading this to an MP3 player that was left with my third child in the NICU for 10 weeks.
She was able to hear this story and others that were read by me and by my wife when we were not there to talk to her.
Great memories all around for this book.
This is my favorite Christmas book, hands down.
Growing up, my grandparents had a beautiful flocked tree.
Of course, artificial trees have a lifespan and by the time I was in my last year of high school, the tree had been replaced by something new.
The new tree was also beautiful, but to me it just wasn't right.
Part of me was so sad to not see the snowy tree and the flock of little cardinals.
The next year when I moved away to university, there was a special delivery at Thanksgiving: the top 4 feet of the old flocked tree, with its own stand and a few perfect little birds.
A delightful holiday story first introduced to me by my dear hubby's mom shortly after we got married.
In any event it was a story my husband heard growing up and now my children have been charmed by it as well; we read it every Christmas!Mr Willowby has no use for the top of his Christmas tree (it's too tall for his ceiling!) so he chops it off and discards it, but someone else finds his garbage a perfect tree .
except that again it's just a bit too tall.
I had a copy of this book as a kid and literally read it to pieces.
The pictures were magical to me as a small child, as was the idea of the tree getting cut smaller and smaller--and some small critter enjoying the "leftovers" someone else threw out.
That and my love of small things.
Read this with a child you love, particularly if they're the smallest, the youngest, or the one who consistently gets pushed aside or left out.
Go on--make a happy memory!I just bought a second-hand copy.
Not for a child, but for me.
Although I did like the last scene which was of Mr. Willowby in his chair with his big, fancy tree beside him, and in a little hole in the floor is the mice’s little Christmas gathering, with their tiny tree, and it looks so cozy with the light spilling out onto the floor.
What annoyed me was that each time the tree was chopped, instead of seeing the cut, it always looked perfect, and that’s just not how it would look.
And cutting a tree wouldn’t leave it perfect looking like that.
I liked how it started at Mr. Willowby's house, then it made it all the way back to the mice in his house.9 Year Old: (special needs) I loved that it went from Mr Willowby, then the maid, the bear, the fox, the bunny, the mouse especially.
The plot of the story is that you should always cut off the top of your Christmas tree for other animals to use it.8 Year Old: I liked that Mr Willowby got his tree delivered, instead of having to go get it.
I really enjoyed reading this one to my son for his daily reading time. I liked this story, because no part of the tree went unused. It wasn't wasted in any way, shape, or form. I love hearing that. A good story to read to my son not only to show everyone has a Christmas but that every part of the tree top was used.
Mr. Willowby orders a huge tree. It's too tall so he cuts off the top. The butler takes the top to the maid. She puts it up in her room but it's too tall, so she cuts off the top. This continues down all the way to the little mice. Their tree is just as nice.
What a fun story about sharing at Christmastime!
We just read Just Right for Christmas by Birdie Black and thought it was a very nice, entertaining story.
I knew that we'd also just borrowed this book, too, so I was very excited to read it next.The story did not disappoint.
The rhyming narrative and the colorful, cartoonish illustrations work together nicely to create a lovely, fun story to read aloud.
I was surprised when I saw that this book was first published in 1963, since I don't remember ever reading it before, but there's a timeless quality to the story that keeps it fresh and entertaining.
Overall, it's a wonderful tale to read at Christmastime.
ForgettableEvery bit of Mr. Willowby's Christmas Tree gets used in this tale for children as it's always just a tad too tall.
But, given the illustrations, the tree ought to have been the right height quite some time before it was!
Most of the people/animals who get a piece of the tree are left out of that rendition (with owls added in) and there is no further story about a Christmas party, or Baxter or Adelaide the maid.While the book provides a cute story, I had to recheck it out of the library to remember anything beyond what I knew from the film.
The formula of the gift that keeps on giving is a common one in Christmas books - my favorite of this type is Yuriko Kimura's Christmas Present from a friend (the data is all kinds of screwed up on that link, and pretty much everywhere online) - and this was fine if you like that kind of story, but not much more.
A rich man gets a Xmas tree too big even for his enormous ceiling and cuts off the top (wtf?
Every subsequent person in the story also find the tree to be too big and cuts off the top and throws it away.
Robert Barry’s Mr. Willowby’s Christmas Tree has enchanted children up to age seven since 1963 and it continues to hold broad appeal.
Beautifully detailed, softly shaded colorful drawings nicely complement the rhyming text, unraveling a predictable Christmas story.
Through Barry’s rhyming prose children learn about the interconnectedness of life.
As the tree grows progressively smaller it passes from human to animal (a bear, a fox, a rabbit, and a mouse), showing that the life of the tree does not end when it was initially discarded.
This sharing of the tree brings joy to both humans and animals.
This book is one of my all time favorite Christmas books.
My mom read it to my siblings and I ever year during Advent time.
This year she sent it to me for St. Nicholas' Day and I sat my husband down and read it to him as soon as I got it out of the package.
The story follows a tree as it makes it's rounds through the houses of those waiting on Christmas day.
The story is adorable and full of Christmas time cheer.
I can't wait to read this to my children.
This story is about this man who orders a really big christmas tree. He chops off part of the tree and trows it out. this story is about how the tree topper goes around and what happens when other animals find it. a great story perfect for all ages around christmas time. Love this story, great quick read!
Adorable! Might need to add this to my Christmas book collections!
LOVE this Christmas story book. It's beautifully illustrated and the story is so charming. My kids and I read this EVERY year!! One of our favorites.
A bit old fashioend but such a great read and, talk about recycling!!
This is a cute Christmas story about the beauty of trickle-down economics. My four-year-old wanted it read several times.
Another Christmas favorite that I love to pull out each year.
