https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/214888.Residence_on_Earth
For the 1st half of the book * * * but for the 2nd half.
* * * * This man is one of the most influential poet of all times with his subtle poetry, realistic approach, beautiful style & thought-provoking stanzas.
I am alone among rickety substances,the rain falls upon me and it seems like me,like me with its madness, alone in the dead world,rejected as it falls, and without persistent shape.I look for you, I look for your image among the medalsthat the gray sky models and abandons,I do not know who you are but I owe you so muchthat the earth is filled with my bitter treasure.
I could brew a pot of coffee or two and read Neruda for hours, sift through image after image, some in crackling color, some in black and white, some with dead and bleeding soldiers, vulgar war, and some a simple heartbeat you feel in your own soul.

I'm a total sucker for emotional, provoking poetry, and this book of poetry was written during a time of exile for Neruda.
Slow Lament"Into the night of the heartyour name drops slowlyand moves in silence and fallsand breaks and spreads its water.Something wishes for its slight harmand its infinite and short esteemlike the step of a lost onesuddenly heard.Suddenly, suddenly listened toand spread in the heartwith sad insistence and increaselike a cold autumnal dream.The thick wheel of the earth, its tire moist with oblivion,spins, cutting timeinto inaccessible halves.Its hard goblets cover your heartsplit upon the cold earthwith its poor blue sparksfling in the voice of the rain."Tell me that's not beautiful.
Deberé volver a esta poesía algún día.

Aşk ve coşkuyla yazılmış yoğun bir metafor şöleni. ...Gizlice geçer pusuya yatmış günler,ama düşerler senin ışıktan sesine.Ah, aşkın hanımı, dinlenişine seninkurdum ben düşümü, sessiz duruşumu.... (Bağlaşma (Sonat), s. 27)
Este libro es más pies de página, introducciones y comentarios que poesía. Sin todo eso, no pasaría de las 100 páginas.En fin, los poemas muestran a un Neruda en camino a serlo, es decir, su estilo, su voz, apenas se muestra aquí y eso es refrescante. 4/5
'Residencia en la tierra' se opone en su significado a 'Tentativa del hombre infinito' y 'El habitante y su esperanza' en que en este poemario, Neruda amarra al hombre en una tierra que parece ser que está por acabarse.
Tanto en 'Tentativa' como en "El habitante', Neruda pone de manifiesto ya incluso en el título su idea de elevar al hombre del mundanal suelo y lanzarlo al espacio y a otros mundos.
En 'Residencia', además de tenerlo atado, hace constantes referencia a una Tierra marchita que dentro de muy poco acabará hecha polvo.
Hay constantes referencias a colores que no expresan otra cosa que dolor y muerte.
Really three collections in one, it ranges over a vast terrain of love, endurance, teleology, politics, mourning and renewal.
It is clear that the isolation he felt during his time abroad as a diplomat provided him the impetus to dive into primal regions in ways few are ever capable of.
Nearly every line is stunning, a surprise that provides not just a source of thought but a new profound experience of something nearly on the other side of utterance.
This is a collection I will be returning to again and again as one of the vital enduring sources.
Tenía un hijo horrible, y de él sí que me acuerdo.Muchas muchas tardes tuvimos que aguantarlo, pues su madre venía y lo dejaba con nosotros, niño mimado de padres divorciados, hijo único que hacía y deshacía a su placer y había que aguantarlo, porque pobrecito, su padres se divorciaron, Yo sé que nos les cae muy bien, decía mi madre, pero pobrecito de él, sus papás se divorciaron.Un día, pues, se fue la señora Silvia con su monstruo, por unos meses, quizá se tardaría, pero en cuanto pudiera volvería por sus cosas, agradeció profusamente a mi madre por el espacio y a mis hermanos por jugar con Andrés (yo no lo quería así que a mí no me miró) y se fue, para nunca más volver.
Hermoso
After finishing 2666 I started reading the books Bolaño loved and thought I'd start with poetry.
Having known more about Pablo Neruda than having known his work first-hand, I decided to start with this collection.
When asked what his favorite poem by Neruda was, Bolaño said, "almost any in RESIDENCE ON EARTH." I forget that appreciating poetry in another language is quite different from appreciating prose in another language, and I do feel a barrier to the texts of these poems.
I also decided not to try and go through the book all at once but pick it up and put it down again a little more intermittently.
No me ha gustado el libro y no me gusta él.
Creo que esta obra es un ejemplo de como cuanto más complicada y retorcida es la poesía más les gusta a los expertos.
El tratamiento de los temas, en su mayoría pesimistas, no alcanza la profundidad esperada de una lectura obligatoria de universidad y, desde mi punto de vista, se quedan en quejidos más dignos de un diario personal que de un libro con pretensiones literarias.
A los estudiantes de la ESO se les exige más coherencia y cohesión en sus redacciones de la que tiene este libro de poemas.
I have a hard time reviewing poetry as I find poetry more visceral than cerebral, especially when it comes to Pablo Neruda. Even when he discusses his politics, or his environment, his words evoke such emotion in me. His poetry is not just about love for another woman as a lot of poetry does, and occasionally there is the disdainful poem which only illustrates to me his humanity.Neruda is a poet to be experienced, not taught. Do yourself the favor of reading something by him.
This book was a gift from my mother, and I love it. The poems are beautiful, but I tend to like the spanish versions better. The english version are on the opposite page which is helpful in case you don't know some of the vocabulary. Neruda is an amazing poet, and these poems are worth reading several times over just to get all of the nuances.
si te gusta Rayuela, si te gusta no entender una mierda, pero si te gusta hacer creer que has entendido lo que alguien escribe, pero de verdad no entiendes una mierda, este es tu libro
El mejor Neruda está en este libro.
http://kitaplikkedisi.com/kitaplar/pa...
Siempre que he leído a Neruda me deslumbró, y este libro más que otros.
Desde el apio y la madera, pasando por el mar, un naufragio, una caminata nocturna, hasta la mismísima muerte, Neruda da cuenta de qué significa para el hombre estar en el mundo, residir en la tierra, y para ello recurre a lo bello y lo sublime, pero también a los momentos de desesperación, desasosiego y vacío que todo hombre debe sobrellevar a lo largo de su vida.
There is a lot here, so its taking a while to get through, but it is worth every moment.His imagery is intense and incredible, so much so that I feel as if I am getting sucked into each poem.Also, Neruda, if the colloquialism may be pardoned, is savage.
He has a poem titled "Sanjurjo in Hell," one titled "Mola in Hell," and one titled "General Franco in Hell," each of these men being plotters and fighters against the Spanish Republuc and for the militarist insurgents.Neruda also seriously likes Federico García Lorca, and I can definitely appreciate that.
Residencia en la Tierra canta a la crisis existencial y a la decepción vital (no todavía ideológica) del poeta, que le alcanza en sus primeros viajes por Oriente.
Fórmulas poéticas demoledoras son empleadas en el intento de Neruda de asentarse, definitiva, firmemente en una "Residencia en la Tierra", más allá de ser expectador consciente del dolor humano en el que él, por supuesto, también participa.
Aunque el pesimismo intrínseco de la obra contrasta con el tono general de Neruda, él mismo creyó oportuno que este libro existiese al pensar sobre su obra completa por ser, claro, parte inevitable de la vida.
Poesía de la verdad de esta carne poluta de existencia. Este libro me hizo ver a otro Neruda, de forma inesperada, mientras estudiaba en la universidad.
Neruda. Need I say more?
La poesía no es para mí.
It seems to me that the surrealists and the symbolists are particularly open to the charge that if a critic questions the meaningfulness of their work, they'll reply, "You just don't get it," which in turn increases the suspicion that a particular emperor may not be wearing any clothes.Case in point: in Neruda's "Melancholy in the Families," these lines are completely impenetrable to me:I keep a blue flask,inside it an ear and a portrait:when night forcesthe owl's feathers,when the raucous cherry treeshatters its lips and threatenswith husks that the ocean wind often penetrates,I know that there are great sunken expanses,quartz in ingotsslime,blue waters for a battle,much silence, manyveins of retreat and camphors,fallen things, medals, acts of tenderness,parachutes, kisses.The images come so quickly, and repeatedly are so incongruous, that I have to discard any thread of potential meaning I pick up before I have finished the next line.
I don't read Spanish, but because I read Latin (or used to) and French, I somehow feel entitled to judge the Neruda translations I read, or at least to get bilingual editions and then look up the words in the parts I don't like and find better words to stick in.
The first three stanzas totally sweep me away, and then suddenly I am dropped on my head by "its tire moist with oblivion/spins, cutting time into inaccessible halves." Oh la la.
"Un plato para el obispo, un plato triturado y amargo,un plato con restos de hierro, con cenizas, co

If M-P was an aspirant of such a faith, then in Neruda we behold its patron saint of verse.Images slide across the page, flip on their backs, revealing briefly some tender truths, then right themselves and skitter away into the shadows of dreams.
One almost gets the feeling we are witnessing the tumult of inchoate humanity forming itself before our eyes.Surrealism, for this reader, works best when it throws at least something like an anchor on which to moor an understanding.
Even if that anchor turns out to be a beehive race-car, I find myself sometimes lost without it.
