https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/529343.White_Shark
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/ “What lives in the ocean and has five claws?” “Nothing. Nothing that I’ve ever heard of.” Last year I was extremely underwhelmed by what should have been the best Shark Week selection of them all. Today I’m wondering who hacked my account and changed the rating for that one because there is no chance I gave that turd 2.5 Stars. Maybe I was drunk???? Anywho, Jaws was supposed to deliver all of the nommy deliciousness of the movie, but
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/
Anywho, Jaws was supposed to deliver all of the nommy deliciousness of the movie, but instead sucked giant monkey balls so I started White Shark expecting the kind of horror a fella like this might deliver .
I didn’t bother reading a synopsis because my Goodreads’ friends who had read both Jaws and White Shark swore this would deliver.
While I was expecting a real “sharky” shark book (remember, I didn’t read the synopsis) and this wasn’t exactly it, I was more than pleased with the product that was delivered.
ORIGINAL "REVIEW":
This book merits a 3.5. I have given this rating based on the book's merit relative to other books in the same genre.The name Peter Benchley just struck me when I was book hunting in a second hand store. I knew that this is the person who had authored  the  Jaws. My interest got piqued and sure enough the cover page did mention Jaws. The blurb appealed to the thriller lover in me and I bought the book.This is a scary/horrifying/terrifying etc. etc. (I hope you got the point ) monster novel. I am
On top of that he is also trying to be a father to his teenage son who has come for a visit.In such monster novels, there is not much scope for should I say not much need for character development.
I have to admit that the author did try to develop the character of Chase.
The book is pretty fast-paced and I could enjoy a few pages before grabbing some sleep.The book would be enjoyable to those people who love the monster genre.
The movie Jaws scared the shit out of me growing up and I still consider it a favorite, but the book sucked.
This book blows Jaws out of the water.
Less sex, more shark attack!
I can see why people hated this though, the whole idea of this 'shark' is unrealistic and corny, but that's what made me love it even more.A lot of people hated the movie version of this, Creature.
Not a favorite, but still one of those gorey B movies that held my attention.
If you are into movies like Sharknado and Two Headed Shark Attack then I recommend it.
Well, it took me 4 hours to get through the book, and it was 4 hours well spent.Apparently, learning from his mistakes in Jaws, Benchley cuts the sex scenes and gets down to the important subject matter - killer sea creatures eating things.
In White Shark, Benchley immediately makes it clear that the reader should hate his sea creature because it is, literally, a Nazi, and not a great white shark.I have to say, I found this approach to the story quite appealing.
After all, everyone hates Nazis, and even though great white sharks are scarier than a bag of spiders (guuuuu), I don't want them to die.
So frickin' good. I was more entertained by this than by Jaws. Please don't let the terrible TV movie of this (called Creature) make you not want to read it. I would recommend this book to everyone if I wasn't already aware that blanket recommending books to your entire friends list just pisses people off.
I had read this before and forgot a chunk of it, mostly the beginning, so it was definitely worth a reread. A hungry, bloodthirsty killing machine, a shark thrown in for good measure and Benchley turned out a great story. Damn Nazis.
He is a god of the horror fiction world and the monster that lives within these pages is a representation of his greatness.
The book starts in Nazi Germany at the end of World War II.
While at sea, the boat gets a message saying the war is over.
"Benchley's new monster makes the shark from Jaws look like a pet goldfish." That couldn't be more true.
I don't want to give away too much about the Nazi born, man-eating monster but it's terrifying.
This book didn't go very deep into his psyche there wasn't a whole bunch of back story to get lost in, but I felt like I got to know him and every other character well enough to care whether thhey lived or died, and that's about as much character devolpment as I need when I read a book like this.Simon Chase wasn't a perfect hero, but he was one of the more likeable chracters that I have delt with in a long time.
Sometimes secondary characters can either feel like they are taking time away from the main storyline and cast or like they are virtualy non existent, but every chracter in this book was placed there to enhance the story.
But about page 200 or so, Mr. Benchley appears to have forgotten his good intentions and decided that he needed to end this book as quickly as possible.
At one point, I thought I was reading a poor imitation of  Jaws  but then I thought I was reading a really, really, really bad 1950s monster movie.
It is almost as if he wants to make sure that we are all clear that the bad guy is NOT the shark (one of the undeveloped characters in the book), and at the same time cash in on the obvious connection to his blockbuster.
Peter Benchley wrote the novel Jaws (1974) and co-wrote the screenplay for Jaws (1975).
Peter Benchley appears to have only one novel in him so he has written it fairly successfully about five times.
On the cover of the paperback edition of Creature is written a quote from USA Today: "Benchley's new monster makes the shark from Jaws look like a pet goldfish." This should have scared me away but I was weakened by the effect of summer sunshine on the saltwater beach in front of our home.
In the same way that Jaws was a "summer blockbuster" movie, Creature is a "summer beach-read" novel.
Let me say, though, that the title is entirely misleading and you will not have to read long to figure that out.
There is a white shark involved, but it is only peripheral to the main story.
It is not until the story is winding down that it is clear where the title came from.
The very first chapter will make it clear that the danger that drives the plot is not from a shark, but is something that has been made by humans.
In fact, the white shark in the story is in great danger from this thing itself.
While I thought this book was pretty good, there was something lacking for me, or maybe I was just confused by it. I mean I still barely know what the fuck the thing was??? Shark with claws made out of metal? Who knows but it was a killer and it was made to kill and fuck man it killed. Don't want to be near that thing. I did like the characters but they needed more backstory or details or something. They could have been great characters.I did love the quote I posted early from the book. SAVE THE SHARKS PEOPLE!3.5/5
"Jaws" was great. This? Not so much. But hey. Everybody's entitled to a mulligan.
I rather enjoyed this book. It moves pretty quickly and is full of detail but not so much that you lose your mind. The ending was a little anticlimactic, but I’m sure if this ever got turned into a movie it would seem much more tense. It would also be really violent. Sheesh, reading it isn’t so bad, but I’m not sure I would want to see some of what happens on the big screen.
While they are out one of the sea lions that Amanda brings alongs gets killed in the water by the creature.
Simon Chase, Tall Man, Amanda, Max, and Elizabeth (a girl from town who max liked) ended up killing Heunrich Guenther the creature after Tall Man had been injured.Simon and Amanda ended up basically blowing the creature up, because even though the creature was half-human it was more animal than human anymore.This book is such an amazing read that I had to give it a 5 star rating.
Yes there is a movie out that goes to this book and it is called Peter Benchley's The Creature.
The photographer who found it tries to steal a peak before the ship docks and he disappears along with the case and weapon.From that point forward animals on land and sea as well as people begin to go missing and Chase, as resident expert, finds himself on a quest to find this creature.One interesting angle is the 'evolution' of the creature from water to land, along with its 'learning'.All in all a fun, quick read, but not anything to get overly excited about.
This basically follows the same format.
In the waters is a lurking creature and the tension builds as the author reveals more about this creature.
That is where the similarity ends as this protagonist is straight out of the science fiction pages.This was an enjoyable book as the author has a niche with this type of format.
It is a thriller that entertains and doesn't take itself too seriously.This book isn't serious literature and is more like a beach read.
The only problem with that is if you do decide to read this on the beach you might be afraid what is in the water.
White Shark is a fast-reading thriller where man is pit against a Nazi science experiment gone wrong.
Benchley's Jaws is much, MUCH better, and White Shark felt sort of like he was cashing in on his own original shark tale, but I can't hold this against him because the world needs more authors with Benchley's writing style.
It's a sad irony when I sit down to read a book by Benchley or Crichton because I enjoy the turning of every page, but with each page turned I become saddened by the fact that it's one less to turn.
What I hated about this novel is the publisher re-issued it years later under a different title giving you the impression Peter Benchley had a new novel out. I read two pages in when I had major deja vu. I was ticked off to say the least that they fooled me into buy the same novel twice. The novel itself is well-written--perhaps better prose than Jaws--with more indepth reason for the creature's attacks. Jaws was pure nihilism. Sometimes the government conspiracy concept can get strained, but Benchley did a good job here.
I picked up this book because I liked _Jaws_, but I wish that I had just left the book on the shelf.Besides almost no character development, the characters had no distinct voices, so it was hard to tell who was speaking, and there was so much profanity that I got to a point where I didn't care who was speaking. I finished the book because I clung on to hope that it would get better, but it never did.
I feel bad giving it two stars but I don't think it really deserved three. It was a really fun read, but so cheesy I just couldn't give it much credit. However, if you're looking for a quick book with lots of action, a sci fi monster, and a lot of shark science I recommend this book. I enjoyed it in a strange sense.
Read this under the title White Shark. Pretty sure that this is just a reprint of the same book using the name of the TV mini-series that they changed from White Shark to Peter Benchley's Creature. Pretty sure!
Not nearly as great at Jaws...
So campy it's good.
This is the reprint of the same novel published under a different name by the same author--Creature!! The publishers tricked me, don't let them trick you!!
Nice little spin on the 'shark' novel. Won't say why as it'll spoil it but it's certainly different!
Peter Benchley may have earned his spot as the Godfather of Ocean based horror, but that doesn't mean that all of his books can match the triumph of JAWS.
But this is a book about a shark man killing machine, so credibility and believability may have taken a backseat on this one don't you think?
The monster is a really cool idea and it was fun to read about it and try to guess what it was going to be.
It's no JAWS, but I've definitely read worse sea monster books.
Then there is a Nazi Frankenstein monster freed from 40 years suspended animation aboard a sunken U-boat and come ashore off Long Island's North Shore to wreak bloody havoc.
(The experiment was named Der Weisse Hai - German for the White Shark of the title.)Novel - A creature, spawned by a demented Nazi scientist, has hatched 50 years later in a quiet Atlantic fishing community.
Simon Chase has left his wife and infant son, Max, to start the Osprey Island Marine Institute near Long Island's North Shore.
Dr. Amanda Macy, who studies whales using sea lions with strapped-on video cameras, leases the institute.
After reading this in just 3 days I can say regretfully that it was a major letdown.
The fact that it was written by Peter Benchley (the author of Jaws) was basically a guarantee of an exciting, terrifying, underwater thriller and I could not wait to start reading.
Only this time, its not obvious what is terrorizing the locals...and the final moment you finally learn what the freakin thing is, its just not all that exciting.
The "creatures" identity was a big letdown, but I was at least hoping for a big, dramatic showdown Benchley's always given us.
Yeah, Nazis are an adventure-story cliche, but White Shark is a lean, taut, and suspenseful ocean thriller that follows the Jaws and Beast formula.
As in his previous books of this kind, Benchley's best writing occurs in the scenes in which the monster kills its victims.
Other parts, especially action scenes, rely too much on "he saw" or "she heard" lazy sentences that sink The Deep and The Island, but, overall, this is a good beach read, a Creature Feature in novel form, with a well developed protagonist and a motley of secondary types whose flatness we can accept because we know them so well.
