https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1335184.Peter_Pan
Over simplified into a vacant piece of confusing trash!...at least that seemed to be my 3 year old niece's opinion when I read to her the Little Golden Book version of Walt Disney's Peter Pan. What ever happened to the quality product Little Golden Books used to put out?
Okay, so maybe it's been about 30 years since I've read one and just maybe my literary quality requirements have changed, but I recall these stories having more substance...Oh who am I fooling?
The bottom line is I've turned into a crotchety old coot who gets annoyed by everything.
I love Peter Pan! Sometimes I wish that Neverland is real.
I wish I could fly high in the sky. If only they made something like that in real life.... oh wait! They do!!Off to the moon!!!
Peter Pan is not my favourite fairy tale, but this one has beautiful pictures in it.
This book is about a young boy named Peter Pan that lives in Neverland.
Later that night Peter puts magic fairy dust on all three of them and they fly to Neverland where they fight pirates and go on adventures with Indians and mermaids.The main character in this story of course is Peter Pan. He is a young boy that lives in Neverland and never wants to grow up.
This is when Peter Pan flies in looking for his shadow and tells them a place where they will never grow old so they can listen to Wendy tell stories forever.
Peter Pan comes to the Darlings window one night and brings the children to Neverland where he shows them what it is like to never have to grow up, to never have to listen to your parents, and never have to go home again (the lost boys).
The Darlings need to decide if they want to stay in Neverland or return home.Characteristics to Support the Genre: It is a make-believe story about children flying to a fare away land, and pirates; that would be fantasy as well as the illustrations that aid to the story.Ideas- the continuing theme would be childhood, and child like ideas of grown up tendencies.
This is a simplified version of Disney's "Peter Pan." Peter is a magical flying boy who has never grown up. He lives in Neverland with his friends, the Lost Boy. The story follows Peter as he meets Wendy, a young girl from London, and her siblings while working to defeat the menacing pirate, Captain Hook.
this book has so many versions but there is nothing like the origional.
I love This book
what l like about this book is because i like to see when peter pan fly
• Peter Pan is a fantasy picture book for children’s 2-5 years old. Peter Pan is about a fairylike boy who never grows up meeting Wendy and her brother and going on adventures together to Neverland a land where children with no parents live. I gave this story a 5-star because I personally love Peter Pan and the magically aspect behind Peter Pan not being able to grow up into an adult. I think his character really brings out the story because he stays a kid forever but has obligations and authori
The illustrations are very bright and colorful for children of that age to enjoy the picture book and read along with the easy vocab to follow along in the story.
The characters are young children where readers can relate in age and can use their imagination to explore as well as the characters in the story.
I believe this book would be appealing to young readers who enjoy bright colors, reading about fun and excited adventures and being able to imagine the possibilities of joining the characters off to Neverland.
I would keep this book in my library for students to read and be able to enjoy a fun and exciting fantasy story.
This book is about a boy named Peter Pan who refuses to grow up.
Peter Pan takes the Darling children on a journey to Neverland where they meet fairies and the lost boys.
This book has a great storyline that keeps the reader captivated to find out what happens next.
The drawings throughout the book help the reader put the fascinating words to life.
I thoroughly enjoyed this book as a student and it is a great classroom book for students to build their imaginations.
This is a magical book about a group of children who do not want to grow up. Peter Pan takes them to Neverland where they are able to fly, see mermaids, and secret underground homes. They are forced to escape from the evil pirate named Captain Hook, and save their friend Tinkerbell from being captured.I rated this book 5/5 because it is a book filled with magic where anything is possible.
Peter Pan is a good book i love it and it song i am a loss not from never land all was hang out on Peter pan run run lost not the way to me
Cute book
Classic story of wonder and believing. This edition has great illustrations and is a delight for all ages.
After Peter Pan helps three children escape to NeverLand they battle Captain Hook and go on many adventures throughout the book. This would be a great book for all elementary children.
Fantastic classic read for everyone to enjoy.
Walt Disney’s Peter Pan illustrated by Ron Dias is a magical book about a group of children who do not want to grow up.
Thanks to Peter Pan taking them to Neverland, this is possible.
They are able to fly, see mermaids, and secret underground homes.
It is a book filled with magic where anything is possible.
The entirety of the pictures in this book were double page spreads.
The pictures are bright and vibrant.
They are able to think outside the box and aren’t constantly being told that they are being unrealistic.
A book based on the Disney movie Peter Pan. Easy to read picture book.
The story of Peter Pan is told through Eugene Bradley Coco's Peter Pan. The story of Peter Pan whisking children away from their homes into a world of adventure in Neverland is an engaging tale for many young readers.
Older readers might not have the same perspective, almost viewing Peter Pan as a kidnapper and anti-hero of Neverland.
At home, this story can also be read as supplementary to the movie or stand-alone as the story's value is very independent of it's movie.
As a timeless classic, Peter Pan stands among the few stories that enthrall children across generations.
this book would be for a 4th grader because its more complex reading and a lot longer then usually.
this was about wendy telling her brothers and peter pan and how he lives in a magical land called Neverland.
and when they get there peter shows them around.tinker bell gets jealous the peter and wendy became friends and she flies away with captin hook.
but captin hook only took tinker bell because he wanted to know where peter pan was hiding out.
but then captin hook captures wendy and the lost boys and puts them on the ship.
but tinker bell escapes and tell peter pan what happend.
Peter Pan is definitely a great fantasy book that allows children to imagine their selves in a place called the Never Land.
This book is a very old story but still a great one for children to read but can be introduced at about 3 years old to the book.
The book is great because this is where Peter Pan all started then evolved to movies, other books and then now spin-off television shows.
This book will be in my future classroom and into an activity for letting the kids make their own imaginary land up!
i re-read peter pan but this time not as a disney story i read it from colonial point of viewthis st
Peter Pan can be so much fun.
It is about a young boy who lives in Neverland, he ventures out to find his dear Wendy for her adventurous stories, and his life is one big adventure.
With all adventures their is a 'bad guy' one Captain Hook who lives up to the name who causes trouble as all of the adults are Pirates.
The text opens up an opportunity for children to write their own adventures with Peter Pan and who may come knocking at their window.
It also shows how much young children have to learn like Peter does not understand love.
I remember reading this book as a child and thinking about what it would be like if I could fly.
This type of story allowed me to use my imagination so that I could imagine what it would be like for me to live this type of life.
This book was also made into a movie like many of my other choices.
I feel that as a teacher, this gives children the opportunity to understand what the story is about if there are various sources they can use to read or watch it.
Although it is unrealistic, giving children the opportunity to use their imagination is so important for growth and development.
When you first think of fantasy the first thing that comes to my mind is the classic story of peter pan.
The lost boy who lives in a fantasy world called Neverland where he is accompanied by a little fairy named Tinter Belle who sprinkles pixie dust to help Peter fly.
Peter then comes upon three adventurous kids that sail off into the moon light with Peter to Neverland where they have an adventure of a life time.The little golden books are known for their delicate pictures and whimsical color schemes.
Peter Pan is inviting with its faded pages and white backgrounded words give life to both the illustrations and text in this fairytale.
I love this book. Such a Disney classic, and usually these books don't do the story justice but this book really has stepped it up. a beloved tale about a boy who doesn't want to grow up and never does, and also about a young family with little children who don't want to grow up either. The language in this book is probably for readers reading at at 4th grade level. The paragraphs are quite lengthy but still a great book. I read this book to my younger children and they enjoyed the book as much as I did :)
I thought this book would be great for children because it has a mixture of exciting characters. For instance, there are wicked pirates, mermaids, Indians, and fairies. The most exciting part of the story is the setting because it's a place called Never land and children never grow old. As a child, I recall wanting to remain a child because I would see my older sister doing chores and being responsible, while I would rather play. So, this book will capture the hearts of children wanting to stay a child forever because playing is more fun than cleaning.
What person could not like Peter Pan!
This classic story takes the reader to a whole new world where rules don’t matter and you do what you want.
The illustrations create this world and show all of the fascinating aspects of it.
Children would love this book because Peter is a character everyone can relate to.
This story inspires people to be who they are and fight for your beliefs.
I would use this book in my future classroom to teach about exploration and new lands.
I might even make this a book lesson on fantasy.
Overall, I LOVE this book and it is memorable.
