https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1335019.Necronomicon
Definitely a winner.THE SHADOW OVER INNSMOUTH is yet another effective horror story set waist-deep in the Cthulhu mythos, and from what I’ve heard, a favorite of many Lovecraft aficionados.
Told once again in the first person, the story is about a student (whose name is never revealed) who goes to the ruined seaside town of Innsmouth, Mass., for what he thinks will be a one-day trip.
Ph'nglui mglw'nafh Cthulhu R'lyeh wgah'nagl fhtagn... ulnagr Yuggoth Farnomi ilyaa... ch'yar ul'nyar shaggornyth... Iä Hastur cf'ayak'vulgtmm, vugtlagln vulgtmm... Hastur cf'tagn... mglw'nafh fhthagn-ngah cf'ayak 'vulgtmm vugtlag'n... ph'nglui mglw'nafh Cthugha Fomalhaut n'gha-ghaa naf'lthagn...
“The oldest and strongest emotion of mankind is fear.” -H.P. Lovecraft This collection of weird fiction short stories and novellas is slightly inconsistent in terms of quality, but it contains so many genuinely original and thoroughly harrowing, sinister tales that, on the whole, I found it a highly enjoyable—and often exquisitely eerie—reading experience. That said, I’d really only recommend it for hardcore fans of Lovecraft; for everyone else, there are far better—by which I really mean far s
“The oldest and strongest emotion of mankind is fear.” -H.P. Lovecraft This collection of weird fiction short stories and novellas is slightly inconsistent in terms of quality, but it contains so many genuinely original and thoroughly harrowing, sinister tales that, on the whole, I found it a highly enjoyable—and often exquisitely eerie—reading experience.
It seriously took a publisher how much of a century to title a collection of Lovecraft's stories "Necronomicon"?
Necronomicon includes the older editions as published by Derleth's Arkham House, featuring Derleth's...
Also it's bound really poorly, basically a paperbound book with hard boards, but this is true of virtually all hardcover editions published these days, which is lamentable but hardly unique to this book.I sound like I'm being pretty hard on Necronomicon, but I was totally pleased with it.
I like having a single-volume hardcover edition of most of Lovecraft's stories with the single most appropriate title possible.
Sure.*Edit* - Ok, looking back, there are more than just those three repeating illustrations.There are also pictures of some houses.
A bunch of stories stood out for me as being genuine, page-turning excitement: The Colour Out of Space, The Dunwich Horror, The Whisperer in Darkness, Dreams in the Witch House, The Shadow Over Innsmouth, and The Case of Charles Dexter Ward were all outstanding pieces of spookery that still managed to give me chills nearly 100 years after the time of writing, and that is one heck of an accomplishment.THE BADMaybe it's the generation gap, but I find it very hard to get accustomed to stories written with little or no dialogue.
New life goal:to write a cult book about another book that doesn't exist.
Necronomicon: the Best Weird Tales of H.P. Lovecraft was my first taste of true classic horror—I mean I’ve read Poe, Irving, Shelley, etc.
Lovecraft is the epitome of classic horror in my book.
If you love spooky tales and haven’t read Lovecraft I totally recommend that you do.
I’ve enjoyed reading these tales this past month and I really looked forward to my lunch hour at work because I could read my next Lovecraft story.
https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCIvp...The next youtube page I came across that was just as good, if not better, was Horror Readings by G.M. Danielson.
If i was stranded on a little island with just one book, this would be it.The best horror stories ever written.Could also be used as a chair or a little table in this scenario. It's huge.
Eventually, he became obsessed with the spooky place, and the locals, who know about but don't speak of spooky things, shunned him.Then he died under mysterious circumstances that everybody knew was because of the spooky thing, but nobody would admit." :'DBefore Lovecraft, horror was about killers, kidnappers, ghosts - human faults and sins and divine (or other) punishment in the sense of you reap what you sow.
I recommend The Cats of Ulthar, The Shadow over Innsmouth, The Call of Cthulhu, The Outsider, The Thing on the Doorstep, The Dream-Quest of Unknown Kadath and the Whisperer In Darkness.P.S. I listened to many of these stories on youtube, there's a fantastic channel who does readings of various horror writers: horrorbabble
Horror fiction isn't usually my genre of choice, but I've heard people cite Lovecraft for so long that I felt a duty to read him and see what all the fuss is about.
To be clear, after reading him I still don't understand what all the fuss is about.As far as Lovecraft's obvious (let's not kid ourselves) racism, it's my belief that it is possible to separate the art from the artist.
I wouldn't watch a Roman Polanski film in which the protagonist raped a 13-year-old, and the protagonists here often serve as mouthpieces for Lovecraft's racist views (and no, "he was a product of a racist society" does not and should not excuse him).
NOTES ON THE STORIESThe Colour Out Of Space = WIN. And it's a stand-alone story. You don't need to know anything about the mythos for this one.Pickman's Model = WIN. Another stand-alone story, without reference to the mythos. Actually very creepy.The Shadow Over Innsmouth = WIN. A good introduction to the mythos, and a great introduction Lovecraft's story-telling. A perfectly crafted, perfectly creepy tale.
Not really my thing.
Technically, as I averaged out each specific story, the rating turned out to be a 3.5, but given Lovecraft's literary impact and some genuinely great tales of horror, I decided to boost it up to a four instead of downgrading it to a three.
It was difficult to continue at certain times as Lovecraft's tales are often formulaic, following the same basic storytelling structure, but fortunately as it progressed the style became more varied.
I'm still glad I read this collection, however, as I've always wanted to read Lovecraft's body of work.
But, to put forward my own commentary, I shall endeavour: The tales laid-out here are a trove of flawless narrative, impeccable originality and are told with such flair for language and charm; stories interweave, threads unravel and sanity is wholly drained throughout.
Such keen attention to the progression of the stories, the hints of the grotesque therein and the pacing is paid that never is the sense of foreboding lost and never does the tentative withdrawal of information subtract from the unfolding hideousness.
Lovecraft leads the imagination to places of grandiose terror that none other can parallel, of classic horror there is simply no better.
Lovecraft's style is complex, when it comes to him there are two types of people, those who will hate the way he writes horror and those who will love the way he writes horror.
If you enjoy Classic Horror and a dark gothic setting you will love This collection, but be warned, some stories should be left alone, I will not say which ones because its different for everyone.
For me I despised one of his critically acclaimed stories while liking some of his lesser known work.
So by all means buy this, it fits right into any horror readers book collection.
Najveća milost koja nam je data, po mom mišljenju je nesposobnost ljudskog uma da poveže sav svoj sadržaj. Živimo na tihom ostrvu neznanja u središtu crnog mora večnosti i nismo sazdani za duga putovanja. Nauka, sa svakom disciplinom koja vuče na svoju stranu, malo nam je štete nanela do sada; ali jednoga dana, zbrajanje rasparčanog znanja otkriće nam tako užasan uvid u stvarnost i našu zastrašujuću poziciju u njoj, da ćemo ili poludeti od tog otkrovenja ili pobeći od smrtonosnog svetla u mir i sigurnost novog mračnog doba. Zov Ktulua-Lovecraft
Thus we have Necronomicon: The Best Weird Tales, a collection of works by famed horror writer H.P. Lovecraft.At it's essence, Lovecraft writes about mankind's oldest fear, the fear of the unknown.
Lovecraft wrote his stories in the 1920's - 1930's, during a time when physics was making great strides in Relativity and Quantum Mechanics that told the world that reality at the speed of light or on the sub-atomic level was completely different than what we [humanity] was used to.
Lovecraft's stories really spoke to an existential angst as it existed at the time.
This is my H P. Lovecraft's Dream Book! The book design is grand, it also contents most of Lovecraft's major short novels. I borrowed the book from library but I still totally want to own it!
Great stories in this collection. I have this on my Audible account and find them more atmospheric when listening to them than just reading them myself.
The Color Out of Space is still the single scariest story ever written.
While vacationing here in Santander, I began to feel "kindled out" and in desperate need to actually read a few pages on real paper.
So I wandered into a local Spanish bookstore in search of English books and came across a single shelf of English novels whereon I spied a small collection of H.P. Lovecraft stories entitled "Necronomicon," which is actually formatted as an advanced reader for Spanish students studying English (and now I discover may only be a selection from a larger book by this title).
Anyway, I've wanted to read a bit of Lovecraft for a good many years, so why not squeeze these very short stories between visits to the beautiful local beaches and tapas and beer downtown.
In "At the mountains of madness" in particular I felt the sense of exploring a long forgotten place and gradually discovering the dark truths it holds was extremely well conveyed.Lovecraft's imagination was really amazing and the variety and scope of his "Mythos" is a testament to that; the recurring "multi-dimensional-beings" theme is particularly impressive, coming from a man who lived in the first half of the previous century.Sadly, while the premises behind his works were almost always great, the same really cannot be said of his writing, which suffers from a number of issues and idiosyncrasies that are more than simply annoying.First and foremost among these is Howard's tendency toward giving extremely lenghty and detailed descriptions of the most irrelevant things (New England architecture in particular), only to switch to "vagueness mode" as soon as something important pops up.
It is possible that man may sometimes return on the track of evolution, and it is my belief that an awful lore is not yet dead.—Arthur Machen (quoted as an introduction to “The Horror at Red Hook”)Everyone must read a little Lovecraft and Blackstone Audio’s recently published edition of Necronomicon: The Best Weird Tales of H.P. Lovecraft is, in my opinion, the perfect way to do that.
Like re-animated corpses, Lovecraft’s most popular stories from the 1920s and 1930s pulp magazines are brought back to life by some of the best readers in the business: Paul Michael Garcia, Bronson Pinchot, Stephen R.
Read More: http://www.fantasyliterature.com/revi...

P. Lovecraft is a short story collection presented in a beautiful tome format, featuring 36 tales of the weird and macabre.The book starts with shorter stories and progresses to much longer ones; the first is less than a page and the longest is 102 pages in length.
There were several stories I thought were particularly well done and memorable.
Herbert West - Reanimator is a dark tale which made me think of another classic horror (Frankenstein).
Under The Pyramids is another which was fun in a very dark way.In Summary: A beautiful book with some truly remarkable stories within it.
Recommended for Lovecraft fans.
I liked this compilation of HP Lovecraft's short and medium-length fiction much more than Tales of the Cthulhu Mythos; the latter is lacking several stories that contain essential background for the Cthulhu universe (e.g., "The Dunwich Horror", "At the Mountains of Madness" and "A Shadow over Innsmouth"). It also contains some straight-up horror stories, but these don't compare to the tales of the Ancient Ones.
I borrowed this from the library, and if we ever cross paths in a bookstore, I'm going to need to buy it. I got through a handful, including Dagon, The Call of Cthulhu, and The Colour out of Space. Creepy, especially if you have a good imagination. Masterful suspense. You need to read at least three stories.
You know I picked this up because I'd been told it gathered the Cthulhu mythos stories. Actually we start off with some of his early horror work (Cool Air, The rats in the Walls, etc.). Later on we do get into the Cthulhu stories. These are (as always with Lovecraft) reliably horrific and very well written.Enjoy.
Dios mío, van a estrenar en Marzo la adaptación Argentina de éste libro. 😱😱😰Muy oscuro el audiolibro.
Well, I thought that this book will be very, very good, but instead...I was disappointed.
