https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/15447.The_Source_of_Magic
This story takes up where A Spell for Chameleon left off. Like the Incarnations of Immortality series, it seemed that Anthony had a great idea to begin with and then the originality, and quality, dropped off exponentially. This book was saved by Anthony's unique gift and talent as a writer, but I never read any more of the series. For pure fantasy fans.
The sexist attitudes prevented me from at all enjoying the whimsy.
The way that my sister was talking about this book, it sounded like so much fun, and there was so much potential.
I just can't like this book.
Female characters are shallow, caring only about their looks and how others perceive them and are often put down as being the classic ball-and-chain and at times it seems that women are just meant to be evil beings that are only on Xanth to torture the men and exploit their barbaric weaknesses.
I liked them at first, the puns about the creatures and plants in Xanth, the shoe tree that provides fresh shoes and such.
Overall, I just couldn't get into this book.
Overall this book would have been a lovely nostalgic indulgence if it hadn't been for Piers Anthony sending a message to his readers that if your wife/girlfriend/lady centaur is annoying you with her ridiculous female ways or her unforgiving pregnancy hormones - go on a life-threatening quest, it will make you appreciate her a lot more when you get home.
I'm going to carry on reading the series (though I probably shouldn't) because I remember that I loved some of the books later on in the series, and I need the character set ups.
Eh. Nope.This one is another series of mini adventures in the course of a larger quest undertaken by Bink, Chester, Crombie, Humphrey, and Grundy to find out the source of magic in Xanth.
Because of this I had high hopes for Jewel to be a more useful female character whose life didn't revolve around Bink's.
In the end, Jewel falls solidly into the first category of Xanth females.
Jewel could have been such a fun character, but instead Anthony made her fall in love with Bink for no good reason and make extremely minimal contributions to the little bit of the quest she participates in.
In Spell, some of the permutations of this talent are explored as Bink goes up against Trent, another Magician class talent, who eventually becomes the King of Xanth.
There is a wonderful explanation of the power of Bink's talent in Spell that leads to the events captured in the next novel.In The Source of Magic, King Trent sends Bink on a quest to find out why Xanth has magic.
In the process Anthony explores the wonderful terrain of Xanth and further permutations of Bink’s talent are revealed.
Too much sexual innuendo for kids.
Then add in the comments about sex, temptation, the descriptions of the women and you think this must be for adults.
But the story itself is "lite" and filled with silly puns, the kind of stuff you find in kids books.Anyway my boy's 13 now and he liked it (I'm assuming because of the sex references).
He says he wants to read more and I remember Castle Roogna being my favorite of the first 3 books so I guess we'll move on to that one and hopefully like it more.
If you loved the first book you may like this one.I couldn't ignore the commentary on women because it never stops, ever. I don't know if Piers Anthony was bitter but that makes it not worth reading for me. Also, the continuous lusting descriptions of the centaurs ass. No one needs to read from the inner mind of a man who seems to think a horse's hind end is the most beautiful thing he sees.
Régen a Skandar Graun-os könyveket imádtam (gondolom azok még ma is tetszenének), de aztán beleuntam kicsit – a nyíltan főleg humoros írásokat, Herry Kóklert és társait meg hagyjuk is inkább!
Az első részben kiemeltem, hogy akkor a kalandok jórészét intellektusuknak hála sikerült inkább túlélni, mintsem a kardforgatásban való jártasságuknak köszönhetően.
Most – vagy akkor is, csak nem vettem észre?
(Öld le/lopd el/surranj el mellette – aztán jöhet is a következő feladat.) A kalandok most mind ilyen-olyan, de mindig valami komoly erkölcsi dilemmát okoznak a szereplőknek, amikre legritkább esetben megoldás a kard (vagy a mágia), többször is csak a morális paradoxonokra adott – érett – válasszal folytatódhat az utazás és a nyomozás a mágia titokzatos – és halálos – forrása után.Bővebben a blogon:http://profunduslibrum.blogspot.hu/20...
This series is usually well known for it's heavy use of puns and the resemblance of the land of Xanth to a certain North American peninsula with an oversized rodent infestation (i.e. Florida).Bink, a Magician class Talent in a society where everyone has magic, is searching for the sourch of magic in the land of Xanth.
He is escorted by two of his friends through the dangers and perils of a magical, but not at all friendly wilderness.This book was written before  Piers Anthony really got thick into the puns, and I feel it's the better for it.
Just finishing re-reading this one, and found that it's not nearly as memorable as the first book in the series.
I had forgotten nearly everything about this book.
It's not as well-written as the first book in the series either, but it's not as bad as some would have you believe.
And the sexist attitudes are certainly prevalent everywhere, but perhaps they are intended to be part of the humor.
Yes, it's completely foreign and whimsical, and yes the sexist attitude is childishly simple, but perhaps that's not coincidental.Favorite line of the book "Dope!
Plot: CWriting: FVocabulary: DLevel: EasyRating: R (sexism, adultery, demons, scatological humor, lascivious descriptions of women as objects only)Worldview: Do what you want to do.The first of the Xanth novels was somewhat witty, did a decent job of world-building, and established the protagonist as a upright if slightly immature young man.
This second novel is a ridiculous bodice-ripper lacking a cohesive plot.
Nearly every.single.page explains all over again the protagonist's magical ability and why it makes a certain choice impossible - we only need the explanation maybe twice for the entire book.
Need I go on?
I feel like I'm missing the point of the scene or perhaps the entire novel, but I don't think it's me, I think it's how the scene is written.It's just lacking the something something that makes most of these books so magical and fun to read - even though there's the constant dirty jokes and the women bashing - and this one really just disappointed me.The only good thing about these books are how ridiciously fast they are to read.
I was unsure what to think of the Xanth universe after the first book.
Admittedly this is still very early in the series, but I have formulated an opinion.
The world the Piers has created resembles a cross between 'Alice in Wonderland' and 'Looney tunes' with traditional fantasy characters.
Our heroes never feel as if they are in peril during their adventures, most of the situations range from comical to strange.
This is not to say I didn't enjoy the story, far from it.
I love a good fantasy story with some comedy.
Like its predecessor, A Spell for Chameleon, this book is a very pleasant diversion from the mediocrity of daily life.
Anthony has a special gift for creating characters who in some way go against fantasy stereotypes in the way they act, look, and think.
The Xanth books are short enough that you can dive in and get a good sense of the unfolding story within the first chapter.
I do wish more attention had been given to the characters of Chameleon and Millie the Ghost, both of whom are largely sidelined, but as Chameleon is a big part of the preceding book and Millie is a big part of the following book, this is a small gripe.
I think I liked this book even more than the first one in the series. Piers Anthony gives us our first look at some of the REALLY strange places (and people) in Xanth. It's also a swashbuckling boys-only adventure, (at least until the last quarter of the book) with very little of the moping that went on in "A Spell for Chameleon". At least until near the end when the main character does something unbelievably reckless that you have to admire him for. And also? There's some cute puns, but not to the point where they take over the story.
Anthony starts you off quickly, something I enjoyed, since most sequels tend to summarize what happened in the first book. I had to slog through these first half as we rejoin Bink, Crombie, and Chester on a new quest. I didn't like the first half. It felt episodic and the world building felt drug induced, in my opinion. However, Anthony pulled his craftsmanship together by the latter half, and the end was satisfying, albeit he ends it with a cliffhanger. If you enjoyed the first book, this will satisfy!
The second of the Xanth novels, and the second book to focus on Bink. In this book he discovers the source of magic in Xanth, and learns more about the land he calls home. I love the adventure in the early novels, they aren't the standard boy meets girl formula (although boys do still meet girls, it just isn't the central quest) A fun read, I can't remember even say how many times I've read this one but I always enjoy it. On to the third!
My partner pulled this book off the shelf for me to read. I did not want to give him the satisfaction of knowing it was good, every time he asked how it was going - I'd reply "boring". So he'd ask hows's that boring book going.Well now I want the next book in the series and find out more about his son.
Fabulous and innocent fantasy series. Xanth was my first experience into a magical world of fantasy years ago. Anthony uses puns and clever wordplays as part of the magical charm of the land of Xanth. This whole series makes our life here in "Mundania" seem so... well... mundane.
I loved these books as a young adult and I'm considering introducing them to my son who is 11. I read the first 7 or 8 but soon got tired of Anthony shoehorning bad puns into everything. Or maybe I just grew up a bit. Good light fantasy.
A psychedelic, politically incorrect, comical, fantasy world filled with magical adventures. Xanth is an interesting place, silly fantasy for adults, I'll definitely return for book 3.
A great effort. Bink most uncover the source of magic, test his honor, and show once again its character that wins through.
And if I still didn’t get it by then, I’d look up things from its description in the encyclopedia.It took me a month to finish that book, but by the time I finished, my vocabulary had significantly increased and I had learned basic research skills.THE BOOKThe Source of Magic is the second novel to the Xanth series.
Still, the Xanth series has a copious amount of gossamer veiled teen angst/sexual frustration on its own.Should my mom have introduced me to his books at such a young age?
Bink, so often in the doghouse as a result, is thus commissioned by his good friend and King of Xanth, Magician Trent, to get away for a bit and take up the task to which he was assigned at the end of the first novel - to seek out and discover the source of magic in Xanth.
And all the while, an enemy of unknown origin is attempting to stop him in his tracks.After stating in my review of A Spell for Chameleon that the early Xanth novels were not as blatantly pun-filled as the latter ones - that the puns presented in these earlier stories were more subtle - I must now eat my words.
On the one hand I still enjoy the whimsy and (fuzzy though it is) worldbuilding of this series in general, and this book in specific.
And that there is no greater thing a woman can do than to hold up her man, and make him better.**Spoilers below and possible trigger depending**There is no better example of this than the ending of the book and what happens to Jewel the rock nymph.
To see what, if anything, changes with a female point of view character that I know is coming up in a few books.
“Xanth: The Source of Magic” stays true to Piers Anthony’s style of fantasy writing, which includes taking the names of mundane objects and creatures and putting a “fantasy spin” through puns.
I would recommend this book to people who enjoy fantasy novels that stray a bit from the traditional idea of a fantasy world.“Xanth: The Source of Magic” is about a young man named Bink who must go on an adventure with his friends in order to find the source of magic in the land of Xanth.
It was a fine cottage cheese just off the palace grounds, which he had moved into when he married.
The rind had hardened and lost the better part of its flavor, and the walls were fine-grained petrified cheese.
The smell was such as to make Bink's stomach struggle for sudden relief, and his eyes smarted.
Zombies did not have much cohesion."So far in The Source of Magic, Bink lost the centaur in a foreign country, cheated on his pregnant wife with a nymph, and beat the crap out of the rest of his friends, while threatening their lives.
I really enjoy Piers' quirky attitudes towards women and all of his descriptions of female physical characteristics and stuff like that...it brings me back to my younger, more immature days and the crassness makes me laugh!
Part of the thrill of this book and Piers' writing are those moments when you think to yourself, "Wow, I can't believe he wrote that!" Personally, I could go on and on defending his writing and his depictions on multiple levels, but those are my opinions and I won't force that upon anyone.
#24in48 #wintersrespite
