https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/411496.Voss
She would have liked to sit upon a rock and listen to words, not of any man, but detached, mysterious, poetic words that she alone would interpret through some sense inherited from sleep.
Air joining air experiences a voluptuousness no less intense because imperceptible.And this is the real hell of the hero: Voss, he began to know, is the ugly rock upon which truth must batter itself to survive.
If I am to justify myself, he said, I must condemn the morality and love the man.If one aims too high one’s ideals turn against one and begin to ruin a person… And in the end reality always defeats idealism.
Neither the explorers featured in the novel, nor myself, the reader, could have been prepared for the journey ahead...White predominantly focuses on two characters: Johann Ulrich Voss, a German explorer who challenges himself (with the help of small band of others) to partake in an expedition crossing the Australian continent, and Laura Trevelyan, a young, slightly naive, but lovely orphan who recently arrived in New South Wales.
Voss and Laura establish a sort of spiritual bond that grows after Voss leaves on his expedition, the twin plots of his journey and the lives of those back in Sydney playing themselves out over the rest of the novel.Voss is an enigmatic figure, arrogant and isolated, whose motives in making his expedition are never entirely clear.
In fact, their relationship, to the extent that it can be viewed as mutual, develops and blossoms primarily through the dreams, imaginings, and hallucinations that each experiences.The colonial community in Sydney is rather homogeneous, circumscribed by conventions, mutual expectations, and the shared sense of being an isolated outpost clinging to the edge of a continent and universe alien, forbidding, and mysterious.
Apparently White listened repeatedly to Alban Berg's violin concerto while composing Voss.
I was made aware of this about half way through.
I lazily experimented but found myself engulfed in the novel's emotional torrents.
Maybe my ears popped, but I wasn't aware of the music.Voss is a story of volition.
It is sun-baked and agonizing.
Quickly thereafter I bought a half dozen of White's other works but Voss remains the only one I've finished.Not to elaborate but Voss is about curiosity and will.
Burr is about avarice.
File this one under day-after-review.
Thinking about Voss helps.
I almost feel that I read this book two and a half times as I read and reread passage after passage to try and get the nuances that were obviously completely above my tiny little brain.
The presentation of this book is also paragraphless (is that a word?) in what seemed one long almost stream of consciousness delivery that had me returning to reread why the sudden change from character to character.
Loved by many, a friend of mine adores this and has read it several times, awarded the first ever Miles Franklin and author Patrick White is the only Australian Nobel Prize winner.
[...] Não é que o livro seja perfeito - a sua escala é demasiado grandiosa: está para lá da perfeição." Lindsay Clark, in The Independent"Patrick White era um génio e Voss uma das mais notáveis obras da era modernista e do século passado." Thomas Keneally, in The Guardian"Patrick White é um dos maiores romancistas do século xx apenas igualado pelos seus pares vencedores do Nobel, Faulkner, Laxness, e Thomas Mann." Nicholas Shakespeare in, The TelegraphMesmo acreditando em tudo o que estes senhores dizem, e lastimando-me por não ler como eles, vou deixar Voss "morrer" já aqui.
"That strange, foreign men should come on a Sunday when she herself had ventured on a headache was quite exasperating." The headache on which Laura Trevelyan, the heroine, has so deliciously ventured is a cover for her recent loss of faith in conventional Christianity, yet the vast novel that follows will soon plunge into mysticism and madness, a magnificent wrestling match between man and God.For the foreign visitor is Johann Ulrich Voss, a German explorer who is to lead an expedition to traverse the unexplored Australian interior.
It can be challenged only by people of sense and spirit, visionaries and outcasts like Voss and his followers.
A presença constante do vento une momentos, tempo e personagens numa única geografia, seca e tórrida .
Voss parte para uma viagem exploratória ao deserto aborígene.
Sabe que será uma empreitada cheia de desafios, provações e perigos, mas avança cheio de ânimo, sem humildade, encorajado por uma vontade férrea e pela ambição.
Acredita que o seu esforço será recompensado.
A ligação entre os dois transcende a passagem do tempo e a distância que os separa.
Laura, embora ausente, é também uma companheira de viagem e um apoio fundamental para Voss.
( deverei voltar a ela pois uma única leitura não basta.)
If this is repentance, sin is less ugly.' Patrick White is Australia's only Nobel prize laureate (if we haven't co-opted Coetzee yet).
Johann Ulrich Voss is a real oddball.
Now he did not have the advantage."He falls in love with Laura Trevelyan.
(Voss and Laura are the original hipsters.
Get on our level.) 'Oh,' said Laura, 'I had always been led to understand that the expression of thought was the height of unsociability.' Unlike us regular losers, their connection transcends the physical.
It is through letters (written but never arrive), thoughts and dreams that they communicate.
Did I enjoy Voss?
This book is based upon the life of the nineteenth-century Prussian explorer and naturalist Ludwig Leichhardt who disappeared whilst on an expedition into the Australian outback.A magnificent and unforgettable book to be read by all fans of Australian fiction.
In this 1957 book by the only so far Australian who won 1973 Nobel laureate for literature, Patrick White (1912-1990), Leichhardt is the 27-y/o Johann Voss.
The land exploration reminds me of Joseph Conrad's Heart of Darkness and the distant psychic love affair of Voss and Laura makes me recall the story of Inman and Ada in Charles Frazier's Cold Mountain.
Maybe I should re-read this when I retire and know more about that part of Australian history when land explorers from Europe flock to that big piece of land to study it or just to have another life.
A Patrick White novel usually takes its time, I rarely made I through one in less than three weeks (they’re so well written, you want to read every sentence thrice), and while I actually began Voss in mid-December, February still didn’t find me much farther than page 20… Mind you, I have been prepared, the 1st White novel I read was Riders in the Chariot, allegedly his best.
I don’t think it is intended to be read in such a short space of time; what actually happens in the novel can be summed up in a few sentences, whereas the real action takes place in the characters’ (and readers’) minds, thus begging for TIME to think.
É um livro para ler em alerta,mas que se lê, depois,sem esforço e com deleite quase ininterrupto.
Voss parte de uma condição de super-homem determinado para uma busca de si mesmo e da criação, estabelecendo-se na relação com Laura a válvula de escape redentor e a humanização em amor obsessivo, cujos contornos metafóricos dançam continuamente entre a angústia,a entrega,o egoísmo e a beleza.É preciso ler voss,mantê-lo vivo e sublinhar, rasurar e voltar páginas atrás para se perceber o Universo que tem para nos oferecer.Um livro desalinhado,de um desalinhado,para todos os que gostam de perceber que há múltiplos caminhos para procurar um sentido existencial.Não poderia ter gostado mais.
Brilliant.
Right alongside 'Anna Karenina,' 'Lila,' 'Moby Dick,' and the central book in this tradition, 'Frankenstein.' Anyway, this Patrick White novel, you will be surprised to learn, is about the internal states of a small number of characters, the heroes among whom don't fit in, the villains among whom fit in very well.
Other White books with the same idea focus on one character (Vivisector), three characters (Riders in the Chariot), or three-characters-in-one (Twyborn Affair).
It helps that the narrative is historically based (Leichardt, which I've probably spelt wrong), and so White can focus on what he does well, i.e., psychology, sentences and mysticism.
Sentimentos contraditórios. Se por um lado este White foi Nobel e tem prosas de grande qualidade (e percebe-se isso logo), por outro tem momentos bastante entediantes e que nunca mais acabam. A história tem potencial para ser uma aventura mas acho que está pouco explorada. Para quem não tem muita paciência sinceramente nem tentem. Se são daqueles que não desistem, como eu, força aí e coragem.
Magnificamente escrito e despindo sem pudor nem piedade as mais diferentes formas de travessia de quem somos e das nossas breves vidas, é um livro tão duro e cru, que a leitura progrediu lentamente e por vezes com custo. Tive de abrir espaço para Voss se acomodar e avançar em mim. Por esse custo estive quase a dar-lhe 4 estrelas. Mas seria injusto. A estrela perdida seria por minhas, e não do Voss.
Now why doesn't it surprise me that not one of my well read high brow friends, Australian or otherwise, has read this Nobel Prize winner?Let alone reviewed it....I'd do it myself, but why bother when Fred Dagg has this to say about writing The Great Australian Novel. Australians, if you haven't heard this, it's hilarious. For others, it is still very funny (he is great on Tolstoy), but there will be the odd reference you don't get.http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bc50Gc...
At first it seemed to be a classic adventure story about a sturdy German, named Voss, who was the first ever to make the passage through Australia, from east to west, around 1840.
This story is mixed with the platonic lovestory between this Voss-character and the headstrong lady Laura.
But the book offers much more than this: it is a derisive portrait of society in Sydney (in the manner of Jane Austen), an accumulation of wisdom on life, death and love (in the manner of Henry James) and a quest for the dark side of reality (Joseph Conrad's Heart of Darkness, of course), a (first?) evocation of the dreamtime-world of the aboriginals, etc.
A book to reread...
I was prepared for central characters larger than life and perceived as mythic, as is Voss himself and his parallel, Laura Trevelyan.
What's impressive is the way White uses language, how he controls impressions and the emphasis of his narrative with so few words.
The novel is a parallel story of an exploration into the Australian outback by a German named Voss while a woman in Sydney seems to be tested in some of the same ways.
But unlike other novelists who anoint characters with a kind of divinity--Cormac McCarthy and William Golding come to mind--White could never make Voss the character interesting to me.
I'd avoided the books of Patrick White up till now because I'd heard he was difficult.
From the very first page of this book, I was totally engaged.
Inspired by the story of explorer Ludwig Leichardt who died in the Australian desert in 1849, it's a powerful narrative told in some of the most beautiful and evocative language I've ever encountered.
White's story telling is more character driven than plot driven and he's as interested in the inner journey of his characters as in the outer one.
It's going to be difficult after this, to find another book that's as deeply satisfying and soul nourishing.
I will make it first.” And that pretty much sums up how Voss felt about each and every situation in which he found himself, with the exception of situations involving Laura, of course.White writes of his hero, “At times his arrogance did resolve itself into simplicity, though it was difficult, especially for strangers, to distinguish these occasions.” For Voss, “[p]laces yet unvisited can become an obsession, promising final peace and goodness.”One can’t, however, sally forth into the central Australian desert in the nineteenth century and expect to return safely without developing a little humility.
It is largely based on the exploits of Ludwig Leichhardt, a legendary Prussian explorer, who disappeared in 1848 while midway through an ambitious expedition to cross the continent from east to west.
To this day, no one quite knows what happened to him.Voss not only tells the story of that fateful expedition, it also tells the (fictional) story of the woman he left behind.
No one much likes her, because she’s smart and outspoken at a time when women should be seen but not heard.To read my review in full, please visit my blog.
Why wasn't this in my World Lit courses?I hit the spoiler button because I will warn would be readers the book does have animal death issues, such as with dogs and horses.  You know how some food is seemingly plain, but isn’t. Like a real good risotto. Rice, cheese, stock, maybe mushrooms and onions and yet it is really good. Patrick White reminds me of that. Chabon has a rich dark use of langue. White’s use of language, his ability to take your breath away when you are reading a passage is more
Like a real good risotto.
Patrick White reminds me of that.
White’s use of language, his ability to take your breath away when you are reading a passage is more powerful simply because it isn’t rich chocolate and wine.
Voss is a novel about exploration, both physical and emotionally, mental.
It is interesting to note that White’s sympathy seems to lie with those characters who grow emotionally or mentally while those who change due to simply physical characteristic or job changes nothing.
And like all great novels, it is really about life.
You can see why White won the Nobel Prize.Thank you Paul!
Her uncle is funding Voss's expedition.The story progresses into the outback and is almost the entirety of the book.
Voss's expedition travels through both the dry and the wet lands, meeting adversity at every step, risking life and limb.I had a small amount of trouble getting into the story, but once I realized the story was really Voss himself (talk about character study!) I threw myself in wholeheartedly.
Again I realized I was just reading it entirely wrong and looking for something that was not intended; once I rectified my mindset the book continued to impress me throughout.
portentoso!
KOBOBOOKSReviewed by The Independent
Yet, the novel presents these people as so thoroughly 'other', so inexplicable in their motivations, that they become almost inhuman, part of an inhospitable and incomprehensible land - 'the unpleasanter portions of Australia' - through which a kind of dis-enlightenment and subsequent apotheosis can be achieved by accepting one's own frailty and inability to comprehend.
White doesn't use the word Savage, but it feels writ large over the book to me: a savage landscape; a savage people: the brutality of it bringing you closer to god.
While Voss is preparing to set out into the bush he has a handful of encounters with Laura which reflect animosity, awkwardness and recognition.
I think both Voss and Laura are too glorified and admired by the author for their specialness and differentness but that can be used to reflect the characters' own relationships to themselves.
So to me Voss is someone having a strange relationship with the idea of being a Christlike figure, not someone who actually is some kind of Christlike figure.
Although Voss and Laura only meet twice face to face, a strange form of love story evolved between the two during the expedition.I don't want to tell more of the plot to not spoil the excitement.
How am I, as a reader, supposed to like them I wonder?Anyway, Johann Voss is obvious an homage to the real German explorer Ludwig Leichhardt.
Although being German myself, I had not heard of Leichhardt before and I found what I've read on the Internet at least as interesting as the book in hand.
