https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/76941.The_Great_Airport_Mystery
Another exciting adventure with Frank and Joe. Often, the adventures come with new vehicles: cars, boats and most recently in #8, an iceboat! In #9, we get lots of plans including a seaplane, adventures and hijinks in an airport and an airplane parts factory as well as outdoor thrills on a mountain side, on an island and in Montana. There is even a ghost story again! A fun and joyful read and naturally, the Hardys solve the case up to the last paragraph!
Frank and Joe Hardy are driving when a small plane nearly totals their car when its wheels touch the roof. A mystery ensues, with Frank and Joe going undercover in a factory to figure out what's going on in a potential smuggling operation. The Hardy Boys/Nancy Drew are great little reads from my childhood and I like to pick one up every once in a while. Not as great as when I was a kid, but still fun.
The Great Airport Mystery is (I think) the first Hardy Boys book I've read and while it was a little confusing in the beginning, I ended up liking the story. The characters were fun and I liked the whole secret cave that fit an airplane.
To assess how the newer versions compared with the original, I picked up 2 copies of this book at a used book store.
One would be this sentence:"It was certainly mighty white of Mr. Jefferson and Mr. Applegate to go bail for us." Also the ad at the end for another book that said that the Hardy Boys think "girls are all right--in their place!"In the original, the existence of air mail is a major plot point.
Maybe a term like "automobile robes" would need a sentence to explain, but all in all the original story was better than the new one and should have been kept.
My four stars are for the the original version.
This was a lot of fun to read with my 8 year old son. I haven't read Hardy Boys books since I was 12 or 13 and I was pleasantly surprised at how good it was. There are some funny dated parts. I like how they refer to Chet as their "portly friend" and other wise making fun of his eating habits. This was a fun mystery, great suspence and the story moves right along. I think Dan Brown could have learned a lot about mystery writing if he'd paid more attention to the Hardy Boys.
3.5
The Hardy Boys return in another classic mystery tale from this mystery book series.
When I was young, I read a lot of the Hardy Boys mysterys. Loved them back then. I found this book in an antique store for a dollar. This copy was published in 1930. This book is almost 90 years old.
Fun blast from the past for me!
This book was the starting point to my journey through the Hardy Boys world. Loved it. Age rating:10+
I hadn’t read “Airport” since I was a kid in the 1960s so needless to say, I didn’t remember anything about the story.
It starts out with the boys going to the new Bayport airport in their roadster and being practically run off the road by a plane apparently trying to land.
The boys foil the robbery at the end by getting the drop on the crooks with some guns they had brought along (the guns hadn’t been mentioned in the story until the plane was forced down – I guess McFarlane forgot about this).
I grew up reading the Hardy Boys and I don't think there was a single story I didn't like.
I'm now re-reading the series with my son.
It's great to be able to share something I loved as a boy with my next generation.In reading the Hardy Boys again, I never realized when I was a kid that the books have all been re-writen and re-edited over the years.
Terminology like jalopy and roadster are used and I think now even though I enjoy the newer versions, I like these original versions better.
I can't wait to get the whole original series and read them with my son!
A Quickie ReviewAs consistent as this series is, there isn't much I can say about this book that I haven't already said in my previous reviews. An old-school mystery; "PG"-level peril; plenty of timeless appeal. What's not to like?Content Concerns: See above...or my previous reviews.Score: 4/5
My kids love the Hardy Boys audio series. This is the last in the series that is available through overdrive.com so my son (11 yrs old) checked out the next three to read aloud.
I like to pretend there's an unknown Hardy Boys book out there; one without a mystery to solve or hoodlums to foil or sexually frustrated old maid aunts to taunt.
He gave Aunt Gertrude the vapors something fierce.Frank: (Sighs) Maybe it's time to move.The Great Airport Mystery is the latest Hardy Boys book I've finished reading to my son.
As usual, dad Hardy violates child protection laws (at least in younger Joe's case; you have to wonder why Frank hasn't moved out by now), by putting his sons to work as stalking horses at a mining equipment company beset by thievery.
Dixon was about the Hardy Boys that at trying to solve a mystery about stolen items from Stanwide Airport The story gives a third person view or the Hardy Boys and everyone else in the book.
The brothers go threw a ton of life or death situations where it is action pact.
The Hardy Boys The Great airport mystery was a great book and every other Hardy Boys book is also great.
I liked how the book was realistic and could actually happen in real life.
I would also recommend this book to people that love mystery and crime cases.
Someone is stealing valuable platinum machine parts from a mining equipment company.
The disappearances are happening during transport from the company headquarters.
The deliveries are done by the company's own air freight service that flies of Bayport Airport.
In solving the mystery the boys get to fly around in all sorts of aircraft, including a single engine plane, a helicopter, and a PBY/flying boat.
The boys waste no time in furthering their long march to dementia.
The both get the KO on just page 4 when a low flying plane flips their car.
The Hardy boys along with their father work on a case of theft of platinum electronic components with short appearances of Chet & Biff.
One thing that nagged me was that their father did almost nothing to solve the case and always kept commenting on how he had to tie some loose end but came up with no results.
I think these books starring the Hardy brothers are right in presenting them as crucial in solving the case but undermining their father's role is no way to go about it.
I've read several Hardy Boys adventures, as a child, and still do on occasion, when I get a chance to go to the library. Because of Frank and Joe Hardy, Nancy Drew, and Trixie Belden, I wanted to become a private eye, but being told, by someone I loved (my dad), I would not make a good one, made me abandon that dream. Don't make fun of your children, instead encourage them...after all...They are the future of this world
Ate these up as a kid and usually got them as gifts for birthdays, Christmas and other events. This edition would be quite dated now and I believe they have updated the books. The author was a pseudonym for a plethora of writers who contributed to this series.
The Hardy Boys vs a drunk mail pilot. (Don't listen to the summaries on Goodreads, they're all of the revised versions, not the originals, which are often totally different stories.) This was a weird one but surprisingly a lot of fun.
A solid entry in the Hardy Boys series, though I found it a bit more action\adventure and less mystery.
Lots of intrigue and high adventure in this one, as the Hardy boys search for missing cargo!
Enjoyable simplistic mystery.
Another fine mystery untangled by the intrepid Hardy boys.
Becoming an addiction...
A good read! I loved knowing the plane terms!
In this particular book, the brothers take up the challenge of solving a mystery for a large firm that deals with expensive parts of machinery.
Shipments of valuable parts are going missing, and Mr. Allen, the president of the firm, needs the boys to help solve the mystery.
They spend time at the plant of the firm, but don't pick up on many leads that would help them figure out what was going on at the firm.
However, the mysterious disappearance of one of the firms planes helps them find that the stealing of the goods is happening in the sky!
The classic boy detectives by Frank Dixon--I read ALL of them in my younger years, one I ran out of Nancy Drew books.
The Hardy Boys are brother amateur detectives, aspiring to follow in their famous father's footsteps.
Frank Hardy is the elder of the two and has dark hair.
Joe Hardy is the younger brother, and has blond hair and blue eyes.
The stories are an unaging series, in which Frank and Joe are always 18 and 17 years of age, respectively.
In the original series the brothers were a younger 16 and 15 years of age, but their ages were increased during the revision process that began in 1959.
One, in this book Frank and Joe have never been on a plane before.
(Reprints have them taking several planes in previous books) The cabin island mystery is mentioned in this book, but instead of medals, it was stamps that were stolen and zero mention of the missing grandson.
Last, but not least, Snuff is not only a detective, but Collig's right hand man, in the reprints Snuff is a walking joke of the whole dept including Collig.Now to this book, it was great, terrifying and thrilling from the first chapter.
