https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1351174.The_Bridge_Over_the_River_Kwai
My colleague and I took a day trip to (and, indeed, walked across) the Bridge Over the River Kwai and visited the nearby military cemetery (which is attractive, well organized and maintained, and, well, moving), and the extremely informative museum.
One of the real highlights of the museum is the video interviews with a number of survivors - both Japanese and POW's.
Some of the interviews highlight the inaccuracies of the movie, etc.
As for the book, it's a great story, and it's very nicely written (or, more accurately, in my case, translated).
Three stars for The Bridge Over the River Kwai by Pierre Boulle.
I suppose most have at least seen or heard of the film starring Alec Guinness and William Holden.
The stiff-necked Brit Colonel Nicholson whose pride blinds his patriotism somehow and the attending figures that surround him.
I'd seen most of the film many years ago, and really Guinness is perfect for the part of Nicholson, breathing a life into the character that is somehow flatter in the book.
Boulle really brings out the similarities of nationalities, probably a bit ahead of his time, I think.
মাঝে মাঝে চিনতা করি সেবা পরকাশনী না থাকলে আমাদের শৈশব বা কৈশোর কেমন হতো। সলপ মুলযে অসাধারন সব কলাসিক বই গুলো অসাধারন অনুবাদ করে যেভাবে সেবা পরকাশনী আমাদের কাছে পৌঁছে দিয়েছে বা দিচছে তার তুলনা চলে না। সেবার অনুবাদের মান অসাধারন। দয বরিজ অন দয রিভার কওয়াই এর মতো বই এর সাবলীল অনুবাদ পড়ার সৌভাগয করে দেওয়ার জনয অসংখয ধনযবাদ সেবা পরকাশনীর পরতি।
মাঝে মাঝে চিন্তা করি সেবা প্রকাশনী না থাকলে আমাদের শৈশব বা কৈশোর কেমন হতো। সল্প মুল্যে অসাধারন সব ক্লাসিক বই গুলো অসাধারন অনুবাদ করে যেভাবে সেবা প্রকাশনী আমাদের কাছে পৌঁছে দিয়েছে বা দিচ্ছে তার তুলনা চলে না। সেবার অনুবাদের মান অসাধারন। দ্য ব্রিজ অন দ্য রিভার কওয়াই এর মতো বই এর সাবলীল অনুবাদ পড়ার সৌভাগ্য করে দেওয়ার জন্য অসংখ্য ধন্যবাদ সেবা প্রকাশনীর প্রতি।
I couldn't connect with the characters, especially Nicholson--I spent the first part of the book beating my head against the wall trying to understand what he was doing and why.
I couldn't get around the extremely paternal attitude of the officers toward the enlisted men, until I realized that I was approaching the situation as a modern American, and wasn't taking into account the still class-based structure of the British army of the time, when the officers were still gentry and the enlisted men were still commoners, by and large.
I know when this book was written, and I know that the Japanese Army was responsible for truly heinous war crimes during World War Two, and I know that people in this time very likely would have been this racist, and yet - none of that makes it any easier to ignore.
The Japanese people and their culture are denigrated at almost every turn in this book, by the characters but also by the narrative prose.
(In the background, you can hear me making extravagant gagging noises.)And Nicholson - I have this pet peeve, developed after reading a lot of substandard fantasy, about characters who cling to the idea of honorable comportment to the point of idiocy.
শত চেষটা করার পরও বিশবযুদধের ওপর এবং সেই সময়ের পরেকষাপটে লেখা বইগুলো কেন যেন আমাকে টানে না তেমন একটা। :(ফলসবরূপ কলাসিক এই বইটা মনের আশ মিশিয়ে মিটিয়ে উপভোগ করতে পারিনি। তবে ওই সময়কালীন যুদধ-তৎপরতার যে জীবনত বরণনা বইটাতে পেয়েছি তা এক কথায় অসাধারণ। কওয়াই নদীর ওপর নিরমিতবয একটা বরিজ ধবংস করার জনয কয়েকজন সৈনিকের তৎপরতা নিয়ে বইটার কাহিনি।লেখকের পরাণবনত বরণনায় উপভোগ করেছি। তবে এজনয সেবা এবং অনুবাদককে ধনযবাদ না জানালেই নয়। খসরু চৌধুরী সুনিপুণ পরাঞজলতায় সাবলীল অনুবাদ দিয়ে বইটার পরাণ ধরে রেখেছেন।
শত চেষ্টা করার পরও বিশ্বযুদ্ধের ওপর এবং সেই সময়ের প্রেক্ষাপটে লেখা বইগুলো কেন যেন আমাকে টানে না তেমন একটা। :(ফলস্বরূপ ক্লাসিক এই বইটা মনের আশ মিশিয়ে মিটিয়ে উপভোগ করতে পারিনি। তবে ওই সময়কালীন যুদ্ধ-তৎপরতার যে জীবন্ত বর্ণনা বইটাতে পেয়েছি তা এক কথায় অসাধারণ। কওয়াই নদীর ওপর নির্মিতব্য একটা ব্রিজ ধ্বংস করার জন্য কয়েকজন সৈনিকের তৎপরতা নিয়ে বইটার কাহিনি।লেখকের প্রাণবন্ত বর্ণনায় উপভোগ করেছি। তবে এজন্য সেবা এবং অনুবাদককে ধন্যবাদ না জানালেই নয়। খসরু চৌধুরী সুনিপুণ প্রাঞ্জলতায় সাবলীল অনুবাদ দিয়ে বইটার প্রাণ ধরে রেখেছেন।
Comme la grande majorité des membres GR, j'ai lu "Le pont de la rivière Kwaï" après avoir vu le film ce qui a eu une forte influence sur mon expérience.
Il commence avec une citation de Joseph Conrad pour annoncer son œuvre est une fable dans la tradition du grand auteur britannique; c'est-à-dire il raconte l'historie d'un anglais en position d'autorité dans un milieu coloniale en Asie.
Comme dans la majorité des romans de Conrad, le résultat est tragique.Plusieurs critiques de GR ont reproché à Boulle d'être raciste ce qui est peut-être vrai.
In the meantime, I think there is something worth reading and essential to our background information on the film production and more understanding on this military novel in which we can read on this website: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Bri...
Please note, there is a pitfall on pronouncing 'Kwai' as you see rhyming with 'eye' because that is another Thai word meaning 'buffalo'.I agreed with some readers' verdict stating that the film was worth watching and more interesting than reading this 4-part, 25-chapter military fiction.
In fact, the concept was entitled "Greater East Asia Co-Prosperity Sphere" (https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Greater...).
đọc chán quá trời, mãi mới lếch được đến cuối, sách chiến tranh mà chả thấy gì gây cấn, chưa kể tác giả phân biệt chủng tộc quá, tâng bốc phương Tây, dìm phương Đông, được cái đoạn kết hài :))
Finally! Now I'll be able to watch the classic film which was adapted from this book.It's fun to read a really straight forward, old fashioned narrative once in a while. Especially when both the protagonist and antagonist are not caricaturish, despite being painted in broad strokes of good and evil. And ofcourse, Doctor Clipton lends able support with his pleasant confusion about the protagonist.Now Watching : The Bridge Over the River Kwai :P
This is one of my all-time favorite movies. So I came to the book with great expectations. This, however, is one of the few instances where I found the movie to be more intertaining than the book. The story was good, actually more believable than the movie, but not nearly as ingaging as the movie. There are two major difference between the movie and book:William Holden's character is not in the book, and the ending is very different (I won't give it away). I was slightly disappointed.
যুদধ বনদীদের নিয়ে অনেক ভাল একটি নভেল। বিশবযুদধ নিয়ে হয়ত ভাল বই আছে কিনতু যুদধ বনদীদের নিয়ে এত খোলাসা ভাবে লিখিত কোন ভাল বই আগে পড়ি নি।
যুদ্ধ বন্দীদের নিয়ে অনেক ভাল একটি নভেল। বিশ্বযুদ্ধ নিয়ে হয়ত ভাল বই আছে কিন্তু যুদ্ধ বন্দীদের নিয়ে এত খোলাসা ভাবে লিখিত কোন ভাল বই আগে পড়ি নি।
২য় বিশব যুদধের ঘটনা। যুদধবনদি বরিটিশ সৈনয দল। তাদের লাগানো হল কাউয়াই নদীর উপরে বরিজ তৈরীর কাজে। কাজটা অতযনত গুরুতবপূরন। এই পথে মালামাল আর যুদধের জনয গোলাবারুদ যাবে বারমা হয়ে পরাচযের দিকে। বরিটিশ সৈনয দলের কমানডিং অফিসার ছিলেন করনেল নিকলসন। আদরশ আর চেইন অফ কমানডের জবলজানত উদাহরন ধরা হয় তাকে। তার অধিনে ছিলেন বরিটিশ অফিসার মেজর সিয়ারস ও কযাপটেন ওয়ারডেন। জাপানিদের আদেশে তারা তৈরী করতে শুরু করল কাউয়াই বরিজ নানা পরতিকুলতা সততবেও। ফোরস ৩১৬। বরিটিশ ডিমোলিশন কোমপানি। যুদধের গতিপথ ঠিক রাখতে গুরুতব পূরন সথ
২য় বিশ্ব যুদ্ধের ঘটনা। যুদ্ধবন্দি ব্রিটিশ সৈন্য দল। তাদের লাগানো হল কাউয়াই নদীর উপরে ব্রিজ তৈরীর কাজ
Read the book first. Then...watch the movie. Wonderfully written!!
Bridge over the River Kwai is a book set in the time of WW2 where British soldiers are captured and kept as prisoners of war in a Japanese camp.
The Japanese camp is set to create a bridge so Japanese trains can move across the river Kwai.
While these soldiers want to show the Japanese that the British wont go down that easy, they are indirectly helping the Japanese get supplies and soldiers over the Kwai to aid in their effort to take over all of Asia.

This is old school.
The hardest 150 pages I have choked on so far.
One thing to remember about this story is that it is fiction and not a true story.
There was much more the author could have done with the story because it is fiction, but didn't.
The most interesting part was the POW British soldiers building this bridge.
That kept interest for the first 100 pages, but the last 50 were horrible, all the while there are old school views of the Japanese people behaving like savages and perceived as less intelligent than the British.
This was a very interesting character study.
ძალიან ძალიან ჩამთრევი და დინამიური წიგნი, კითხვის პროცესი ერთი სიამოვნებაა, საინტერესოდ მოყოლილი ისტორია, არაფერი ზედმეტი, არაფერი გაწელილი, ყველაფერი იდეალურადაა ამ წიგნში. უბრალოდ ბრავო!
And I'm not talking about the comments of the prisoners of war — I would expect men in these conditions to use derogatory terms about their captors — but the terms the author uses.
Focused on his pride at achieving something that he believes the Japanese can't do on their own — it is implied that they are incapable of accomplishing the feat — he loses track of the very reason he is where he is — and why.An interesting read filled with lots of things to consider as well as keep the reader focused on the story.
In terms of writing a good book, Pierre Boulle succeeded; in terms of writing an accurate depiction of what the prisoners of war experienced when building this particular bridge, he failed.
As I've written in many of my reviews I enjoy learning through fiction, but I did enjoy this book regardless of how little of the story is based on fact; it was a good read but I do have two issues with it...1.
I doubt the British would have wanted to aid any of their enemies like they ended up doing in this story; I truly believe that a lot of our soldiers would have given their life to avoid aiding the people they were fighting against and being held prisoner by.
I enjoyed this book more than I thought I would. I was disappointed in the ending, therefore the book only gets 4 stars instead of 5.
Col. Nicholson and his regiment have been ordered to surrender to the Japanese, who plan to have the prisoners construct a bridge that will connect Bangkok to Rangoon.
Colonel Saito is beside himself with impotent rage, knowing that his own job, and possibly his own life, is on the line if the bridge should be a failure.What follows is a battle of Titans: one man who would nearly rather die than lose face, pitted against one man who would nearly rather die than ignore the rule of international law.
And there is another, parallel story running through the book – this bridge, if it ever gets built, must be destroyed, and the same government that instilled in Col. Nicholson such respect for rules is the agent of the bridge’s destruction.
Nie widziałam ani tego słynnego filmu, ani nie czytałam tej książki.
Przetrzymywani w Malezji żołnierze stopniowo byli przerzucani na teren ówczesnego Syjamu, by wybudować połączenie kolejowe między Bangkokiem, a Birmą, które miało ułatwić przerzut wyposażenia wojennego, koniecznego do zakończenia wojny w Indiach.
Plan kolei był karkołomny, ponieważ granica między Tajlandią a Birmą mieści się w górach, w terenach niedostępnych, porośniętych dżunglą.
Jeńcy skazani byli na morderczą pracę, praktycznie gołymi rękami, nago, o głodzie.
Jednym z najsłynniejszych odcinków tej kolei jest Hellfire Pass - wykuty w skale wąski wąwóz.Ciąg dalszy: https://przeczytalamksiazke.blogspot....
The second thing to mention is that it’s a challenging book to read in 2016 because of the inherent racism in the narrative.
The anti-Japanese sentiment is to be expected from an early 50s WW2 novel written by an author who was a POW in Asia (albeit under the Vichy French, not the Japanese), but the premise of the British POWs – led by Col. Nicholson – that Anglo-Saxon civilization is superior to Oriental civilization comes across as self-satisfyingly smug.
On the other hand, Nicholson was meant to be satirical of British snobbery, so perhaps Boulle was also satirizing that mentality (the opening chapter suggests as much).
I have been living in Kanchanaburi where the Siamese-Burma rail line was built just on the banks of the River Kwai for fifteen years.
I've read every book on the railway and I do motorcycle tours of the line.
So when I picked up the book I expected for it to be a bit lacking and it was.
It reads like a military procedural.
Boulle was not a POW in Thailand so I didn't expect the novel to be geographically correct but he was in Laos so it seems he could have used that experience to give life to the story through details of the food, weather, fauna, flora; anything.
Mr. Boulle's writing is excellent - giving the reader an excellent sense of what it's like to be in war...the physical struggles...the emotional pains.
Also, how the psyche plays such a huge part in war/battle.
Everybody knows the story in the book so I won't bore you with repeating it here but suffice it to say that the writing puts the reader square in the action and really makes them feel what the characters feel - heat, cold, pain, desperation, hunger, exhiliration, etc.
Of course, this book is based on Mr. Boulle's own WW2 experiences so he speaks with some authority on the subject.
Some characters may seem a bit one dimensional, but the ones that really matter are multi-faceted, especially the colonel.
It's not distracting enough, however, to detract from your enjoyment of the story.The crux of the matter is you will care about this bridge and the people building it.
You will want to see it completed, and you will want to see it blown to bits just as much.
Given this, I shouldn't have been surprised when the leitmotif of the book was the superiority - intellectual, physical, strategical - of western "civilised" culture in contrast to the portrayed barbarism and weakness of the Japanese.
Nevertheless, the message began to grate, more from its repetition than its content - and in general I found that the narrative voice kept pulling me out of an otherwise engaging story.I will admit that I was looking forward to seeing the end of the novel - and therefore was genuinely surprised when Boulle managed to pull me back so effectively in the last 10 or 15 pages.
A classic Pierre Boulle novel, this one does not disappoint!
He has an analytic style of writing, valuing and revering calm critical thinking.
An electrical engineer turned soldier turned writer, he provides very intimate and detailed opinions of each military leader and seems to sympathize the most with the young soldier and doctor, both loyal yet merciful, moral characters.
The novel can be a long read even though it is short due to the analytic detail that is put into explaining the logic behind each character's decisions and rational.
It is full of fast paced action moments and ends with Boulle's classic ironic twist!
