https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/5942.Anil_s_Ghost
In a fearful nation, public sorrow was stamped down by the climate of uncertainty. If a father protested a son’s death, it was feared another family member would be killed. If people you knew disappeared, there was a chance they might stay alive if you did not cause trouble. This was a scarring psychosis in the country. Death, loss, was ‘unfinished,’ so you could not walk through it. There had been years of night visitations, kidnappings or murders in broad daylight. The only chance was that th
If a father protested a son’s death, it was feared another family member would be killed.
If people you knew disappeared, there was a chance they might stay alive if you did not cause trouble.
She returns to Sri Lanka to examine archeological remains and discovers evidence of recent atrocities.
This is a portrait of a Sri Lanka riven with murderous conflict, a fascist state in which dissent yields death.
Thousand are murdered on an ongoing basis, and no evidence of wrongdoing will be allowed to reach daylight.
Anil fights her own memories of life in Sri Lanka, family, relationships.
And what can better transmit the fear of the people caught amidst the Sri Lanka civil war than silence?Ondaatje loosely tells us about the situation in Sri Lanka during some of the worst years of the civil war, where people felt trapped in the conflict between the government, the antigovernment insurgents and the separatist guerillas.
Not looking for the answers, not wanting the truth.Anil, a forensic pathologist who left Sri Lanka, her country of origin, fifteen years ago, comes back on a seven week mission to investigate the infringements of the human rights in the country.
It’s the civil war in Sri Lanka.
Anil, the novel’s heroine, is a forensic anthropologist and part of a team investigating possible war crimes.
She is paired for the investigation with a government-selected archaeologist named Sarath, an enigmatic man 16 years her senior.
Together Anil and Sarath find four skeletons whom they nickname Tinker, Tailor, Soldier and Sailor, the last a source of obsessive fascination.
The task is to give Sailor back his identity in order to incriminate the government of war crimes.
In the process Anil will have her own identity given back to her.
Against the obscenity of large numbers When a writer, dauntless and unflinching, turns his piercing gaze on mass murder, how does he drag it back into the realm of the human? In 2666 Bolano gave to each and every one of the women murdered in Santa Teresa (Ciudad Juarez), a name, or the clothes they were wearing, or where they were murdered, or, at the very least, how they were found and what happened to the corpse afterwards. He turns each one into an individual, even in the relentless catalogu
Obtuse, dislocated, off-centre, like Anil herself, born in Sri Lanka, now ex-pat, she has created a new centre of self around her intellect and her scientific, rational approach to life, an approach which holds her at a distance, protects her from pain.
Gradually, like the reader, Anil is made to look straight at the face of death, rather than busying herself with the details of forensic evidence.
But Ananda has lost his wife in the terror, so the face is peaceful: "It's what he wants of the dead." Anil rose and walked back into the dark rooms.
Perhaps the main problem is the central character Anil who never came alive for me.
Anil's Ghost has all the ingredients to be a bewitching novel.
As usual Ondaatje uses his novels to learn and write about exotic professions.
The central quest here is to identify a skeleton and establish it's a murder victim of government forces.
This part of the novel didn't work for me.
One night this man stabs himself in the neck, another bit of gratuitous melodrama that echoed Anil's stabbing of her boyfriend.
I'm not quite sure why no one in the novel was capable of sustaining a relationship.
This time, I couldn't put it down, which just reinforces my belief that there's a right time and a wrong time to read each book.
When I stopped reading for the night at the end of a character's section, the book made more sense.
So the removal of a wise sixth-century head, the dropping off of arms and hands of rock as a result of the fatigue of centuries, existed alongside human fate.
Or place his hand against old, warm rock that had been cut into a human shape.
That said, I think this being a detriment to the story depends mostly on the reader's preferences and how much they like this style of writing, so this is subjective.I did think the book picked up the pace and got very intriguing as it went on, building up a vibrant story that comes alive the more you go through it.
I liked it but I don't know if I'd necessarily recommend it to everyone; historical fiction fans would probably find enjoyment in it and again, I think with this book it depends very much on the reader how good and effective it is.
but at times, completely meandering!I've already read The English Patient, so wasn't surprised when I dived into Ondaatje's world again, which feels very dreamy and evocative.
I sometimes had to go back and remind myself which character we were focusing on!The story is centred round Anil, a champion swimmer turned forensic expert, who has returned to Sri Lanka to investigate a mysterious skeleton, buried in an ancient site.
I loved this aspect of it, it added a lot of depth.Ondaatjes language is spectacular at times, with gorgeously poetic phrases that make the book that much more beautiful.
In that way, it is structured more like connecting short stories.
It is about a forensic pathologist, a woman, who comes to Sri Lanka when the civil war was at its peak and about a couple of other guys who work with her.
Some portion about the personal lives of the three characters which was also very interesting and literary, a general commentary on the war-torn life of ppl, all with archeology as the backdrop - the technical details of which I found interesting.
It is cool to pick the book without knowing anything about it.
These forms of knowledge also serve as a filter, a heuristic, and a coping mechanism for the characters and the reader through which to explain the inexplicable: the atrocities of the Sri Lankan civil war.
The novel's greatest weakness to me as fiction was also something I found valuable as a travel guide and for it's appeal to my intellectual curiosity: many extensive discursions (yes, that's a word!) that seek to explain details about the culture or disciplines, for example about forensics.
Anil's Ghost, the story of a forensic anthropologist investigating the bones of a war victim in Sri Lanka, is a painful, beautiful book.
It is also very honest: the science does not magically resolve itself, but must be worked at; the war is hideous; the cultural knowledge is first-hand; and the heroics are small, if they exist at all, and usually brutally punished.
It is as frequently frustrating, unfortunately, as it is beautiful.
Maybe it's just my simple, Hemingway-esque soul, but at times I just wanted him to tell me a story without another unrelated, and usually heartbreaking, tangent.
But then, I suppose, how else are you supposed to leave a book on civil war?
Meh. Listened to this on tape. This contributed to the fragmented feeling of the book, but only a little. I didn't know why certain characters were being fleshed out when they were, or how they were related to the story at all sometimes. Maybe if I'd known more about Sri Lankan politics it would have been more clear. There was some suspense, but it never climaxed. Some of the writing was beautiful and vivid, but not enough to keep my attention if I'd been reading this myself.Read The English Patient instead.
Anil Tessira, a 33-year-old native Sri Lankan who left her country 15 years before, is a forensic pathologist sent by the U.N. human rights commission to investigate reports of mass murders on the island.
Taciturn archeologist Sarath Diyasena is assigned by the government to be Anil's partner; at 49, he is emotionally withdrawn from the chaotic contemporary world, reserving his passion for the prehistoric shards of his profession.
Her confusion about his motives is reinforced when she meets his brother, Gamini, an emergency room doctor who is as intimately involved in his country's turmoil as Sarath refuses to be.
I was up last night thinking about this and considering if I should remove a star.
In the beginning of the book there is a statement that says the war continues but in another way!
So I think, what way?
I know I really liked it by the end.....not in the beginning.
And yet some people are who they are and have to behave as they do.The narration by Alan Cumming also annoyed me in the beginning, but by the end it was just fine.

At dinner parties I always try to blend with the wallpaper when somebody starts raving about how the English Patient was the greatest film of all time.
I wanted to be able to tell all my ever-so-clever friends that while The English Patient didn't rock my world, Anil's Ghost was a masterpiece.
The main story fizzled out but the closing pages were beautifully written and were the highlight of the book.
I was left with the impression that the author spent so much time trying to write beautiful prose that he forgot to write a story.
3 Stars.It started out as a complicated and fragmented plot structure.
For the first hundred pages or so, it kept switching between past and present, conversations and memories, all within the same chapter.
It was hard to keep up.It gets better, post 150 pages.
It picks up pace, however there are very few civil war, LTTE- Sinhalese references.
But, this book really hit its mark in the end.
The plot comes a full circle.I have mixed feelings about this book though, but because I really admired the smooth writing style, and easy way of explaining, I liked it.
It's the story of Anil, a forensic anthropologist who works with the UN and returns to Sri Lanka for the first time in fifteen years on an investigation.
But while it's about Anil and the skeleton of a civil war victim that she unearths, it's more about Sri Lanka itself.
It's the story of their experiences with the civil war, uncovering victims, working to save victims, becoming victims.
Instead, what we see is the impact that the war had on Sri Lanka's people.
Exquisitely written, as Ondaatje (always?) is - that overused word 'lyrical' applies in spades here - and more, the lyricism is connected to a set of intriguing, complex, deeply hurt and deeply feeling characters.
Ondaatje loops back and forward in time and place; we learn characters' fates while they are still vigorously present in earlier (or later) timelines; we learn how they are connected to each other in ways that seem happenstance, even accidental.
It's a brilliant device/conceit on Ondaatje's part.I loved Anil, of course.
After so much war, torture, death and disintegration, the ending is strangely peaceful and loving.
On the plus side, much of the writing is stunning and Ondaatje creates images that will stay with me forever.
Yet while the novel's many gorgeous scenes are successfully strung together, there is still something missing.
And Ondaatje made weird choices when it came to leaving out certain important scenes, for example, two of the major characters are consumed with learning the identity of a skeleton they found, but when it's finally revealed, it's like, "Oh, by the way, he was this guy." That's just one example among many.
It's as if Ondaatje's plot-meter wasn't working.
Many other characters come into focus, and if anything, this is a character driven novel, and a lesson in how to do it right.I devoured this book, read it in two days while vacationing on Kauai - a perfect locale for the fluid and languid prose that touched on politics, history, myth, the protagonst's back story, and a murder mystery that was emblematic of Sri Lanka's turmoil.It's a terrific story, with terrifically written characters, and with a prose style that I'd have to call miraculous.
Anil's Ghost is one of the most beautifully written books I've read, and for right now is my top book of - the century!
I had a hard time getting through it but something kept me reading.
It was rather hard to read in that it was written in fragments and pieces, not so linear, lots of character backstory.
It felt kind of anti-climatic, but it was more of a character-driven, literary novel.I enjoyed learning about Sri Lanka and the civil war that occurred during the 1980's and 1990's.
I had no knowledge of this prior to reading the book.
Loved some of the quotes, including one of the last lines:"A small brave heart.
In the heights she loved and in the dark she feared."
There is "Smilla's Sense for Snow" and then there "Anil's Sense for Bones".This is an interesting book, almost like a few novellas thrown together to describe some of the violence that occurred in Sri Lanka's wars of the 1980s.
The book traces a number of characters - Anil the forensic scientist, Sarath the archaeologist, Sarath's brother a doctor, Saraths's old mentor now blind and living as an ascetic, and Ananda a drunk but former expert in painting eyes on Buddhas.
Anil, born in Sri Lanka but living in the US, is sent by a human rights organisation to investigate certain deaths that have occurred that may be linked to the Sri Lankan government.
Thought provoking and incredibly poignant
On the strength of that success, millions of readers will pick up "Anil's Ghost" no matter what it's about.They won't be disappointed.The situation in Sri Lanka is a novelist's jungle.
You'll have to remind yourself to keep breathing as you read this book.There are any number of fresh subjects being unearthed daily, but they choose to concentrate on a skeleton that appears to have been reburied in a government-controlled area.It's gruesome work - quixotic and suicidal - but both Anil and Sarath are determined to pursue the truth of this single, representative atrocity.
I first encountered Michael Ondaatje's writing through the English patient (via the film) and was so taken by his style that I sought out other books.What captivates me is the incredibly pared down, minimal writing that manages to communicate so much.
I gather Shri Lanka is Ondaatje's country of origin, so it's hard not to see this book as having a eprsonal element.
There are a lot of ghosts in this book, a lot of hard choices and troubled morals.
If you like finally crafted literature and aren't afraid to face the darkness that is very present in the world, read it.
This was my first experience reading Michael Ondaatje and I have to say that I was impressed. His prose has an almost poetic quality that made me want to keep reading, and kept me enjoying the novel even when the subject matter was extremely disturbing.Anil's Ghost is the story of a native Sri Lankan woman who has spent the past 15 years in America. Now she goes back to Sri Lanka as a forensic anthropologist sent by an international human rights group. She struggles with making her two worlds collide.Beautifully written.
It's an amazingly written, intense and horrific account of the war in Sri Lanka. Murders, terrorism, beheadings and disappearances on all three sides. Anil is a forensic doctor who has been sent by a human rights group, she meets an archeologist and his doctor brother. The sentences are gorgeous and the subject matter is often nearly unbearable. Ondaatje is extraordinary...and this is an even more scathing a look at the idiocy and horror of war than The English Patient.
I've always been interested in Sri Lanka and troubled by the unrest there. It is only in recent years that I've realized that the government was guilty of its own abuses. So I enjoyed this book to learn more about the issue. But--and this may be a function of having listened to the book on tape instead of reading it--it seemed too disjointed and the ending far too open. Only the dead characters achieved resolution.
I listened to this as an audio book and I remember the experience was very unsatisfactory. Having since read Divisadero and the The Cat's Table, I know now that you have to read and reread sections of Ondaatje's writing to really appreciate it. And audio books are so coloured by the voice and intonation of the reader.
