https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/545913.James_Beard_s_American_Cookery
Love how he wrote and the recipes are delicious.
I picked this up to see whether I wanted to cull it from my giant cookbook collection, and it turns out that no, I do not, even though the style is basically the polar opposite of how we eat.
I found the section on bacon-wrapped cocktail appetizers especially interesting, considering the recent ZOMG BACON EVERYTHING trends especially since Beard cites the bathtub gin parties of the 1920s as their origin.
But then you realize that the first recipe is for bacon-wrapped crackers.
Yes. And it really is the 1920s, and bacon and crackers really are a believable dinner, gin optional.I'm not going to be cooking from it very much, but that's ok.
It took me three years off and on but I read this wonderful book cover to cover. Beard's weighty tome is as much story telling and history of the influences of American foods as it is anything else. Written in the early 1970s, it gives a recorded glimpse of food techniques that would later be lost to impatience and modernization. Looking forward to cooking more recipes from this book.
Best cookbook I have ever owned. It was the first cookbook I remember using, and the first cookbook I bought for myself when I moved to my own place. I've stuck with the first edition this whole time. This is one of the essential books for me. If I could only keep one book that I own, it would be this one.
Gastronomically inspired authors such as James Beard have filled a nitch in the non-fiction market writing about lost culinary techniques inspiring foodies to pick up their wooden spoons with new respect for the American house wife as a substantial force in the molding of American life through the kitchen.
Many of these recipes give the reader an idea of the day to day lives of the early American family.This book included a recipe for Brown Bread, which requires cooking the bread in a coffee tin sitting in a water bath for three hours.
This book is an excellent guide through traditional American gastronomy through its young history.
James Beard's American Cookery is an 800+ page book giving not only the recipes that define "American" cookery (as opposed to French, Irish, Italian etc.) but also the history of American cuisine along with basic cooking tips--like how to cook various vegetables.
Each two-page spread has recipes on the outside of the pages while the inside of the spread is dedicated to giving the instructions for the recipes or telling the reader about the recipe or about the history of that food.
Overall the recipes in the book appear to be the type of food real people make using ingredients found in the average grocery store.
My mother passed on her "American Cookery" to me when she was no longer able to cook.
It's filled with her notations and comments that only add to the humor and insight that James Beard shared in this ode to American Cooking.
Throughout the book, you can hear his voice embracing good food, well made and with local, seasonal ingredients long before "local" was a catch phrase.
Now that I'm living in Oregon, where James Beard grew up, I am delighted that I still have my mother's original "American Cookery" with me to check out what James would have done with all of these wonderful local ingredients.
This book arrived this week and I've been pleasantly surprised as I've stareted to look threw it.
Initially I was daunted by its size.
I'll probably never read the chapter on veal.
I enjoyed reading the forward by Tom Colicchio (of Top Chef fame) and the introduction by James Beard.
From there I skipped to his thoughts on cooking green beans (page 475) to compare to what ai tried last night.
I enjoy his historical spin on things.
I may try his recipe for Joe's Green Beans with garlic, lemon juice, and Parm cheese later this month.
I won this book in the Goodreads Giveaway Contest....and I am thrilled to own this wonderful cookbook. Over 1500 recipes are included in this huge volume of Beard's collection of American dishes. The recipes are surprisingly simple and use a manageable number of ingredients. Originally published in 1972, this new edition is definitely not for those looking for low-fat, low-sugar, low-salt, new-fangled fare....this book is for those who love scrumptious, delightfully rich and filling, old-fashioned meals. This book would be a great gift for a new bride or newly independent cook. Definitely a classic cookbook!!
Since it's a cookbook, I didn't actually read it from page 1 to the end, but I owned and used it for so long that I certainly have to feel I know it pretty thoroughly.
The book is fun to cook from.
I often used the recipes as a resource or spring board for creating my own version, but I knew I could rely on the good taste of Mr. Beard to get me through all kinds of meals.
I felt confident using him as a source for traditional American cooking, so vastly different from the various European cuisines I also enjoy so much.
...4.5 Stars...From my book review blog  Rundpinne ...."This book truly impressed me which takes quite a bit as I am a disaster in the kitchen and would be hard pressed to name more than three famous chefs. As an avid reader, and I realize one does not usually look to cookbooks to be read, I found James Beard’s American Cookery to have a fabulous selection of historical stories regarding American cuisine."....My full review may be read here.
I have the original printing of this book. It is a fabulous collection of American recipes. It is a great book to compare how recipes have changed over the years. For example, the recipe for Sloppy Joes has almost no tomato and is not near as sweet as the recipes we use today. It is a great historical book as well as a great practical book for anyone interested in American cooking.
I thought the amount and variety of recipes in the cookbook was phenominal! It had a recipe for literally everything. The recipes were also easy to follow and well written. The only reason for my giving it four stars instead of five is because of the lack of pictures. I am a very visual person and I rarely buy cookbooks without pictures (I won this one on a giveaway).
I won this book through the Goodreads First-reads program. When I received this book I was a little overwhelmed at first, but soon relized that it was a very easy cook book to navigate through. James Beard's knowledge of American cooking is extraoridary. This is a great addition for anyone's cook book collection.
The first cookbook I ever owned. Reading Beard, his comprehensive understanding of American food and the history of the development of American taste, was fascinating to me. The recipes, though, seem very much stuck in time.
My aunt gave this book to my mom, I stole it from her. I haven't tried anything out of it yet. But I have enjoyed flipping through it and there are plenty of things I want to try...I'll update when I do try recipes out of it.
I know I should love this more. I am fascinated by James Beard and the recipes are all fantastic, it's just not the way I normally cook. So my rating is purely based on the historical significance and role James Beard has played in American Cuisine.
You cannot go wrong in having this on your shelf. James Beard was a charming writer, a distinguished scholar, and a good teacher, and America has produced a fantastic heritage in her food. This is among the best collections of either of them.
I think htis is a great cookbook to look at because it captures a period of time in American cooking--where it had potential to go, but was not there--and I am not sure Beard was a man who could have taken it there, but his viewpoint is a good one to be familiar with
This is a fantastic tome! I love the way it's arranged, and there are so many wonderful looking recipes. The best thing about the layout is that the recipes and ingredients are on the edges of the page, and the details are near the spine, so flipping through this book is a breeze.
This is my all time favorite cookbook. Beard traces the origins of old American favorites and is quite honest in his assessment of some recipes. He combines "down home" cooking with some more extravagant recipes.
This is an ongoing read that I'm finding myself coming back to whenever I'm really thinking about meal planning and wanting to get into the origins and basics of american meals.
Great cookbook with a little cooking history and a touch of humor. His love of food and home cooking shines through and make it readable by cooks and non-cooks alike.
My favorite cookbook, and even useful after you learn to modify the recipes to be more healthful.
About 800 pages of recipes and culinary history.A lot of old time classics.Kind of reminded me of culinary school.Just remembered I worked for a James Beard award winning chef.
Christopher Kimball of America's Test Kitchen fame said that this is one of the cookbooks he references the most.
One of my cooking bibles. Wish this great American cook was still with us.
A dated but still informative look at each ingredient.
I've had this cookbook for many years. I love reading Beard's anecdotes and have never made anything out of it that hasn't been really yummy.
