https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/291179.The_Dog_Who_Wouldn_t_Be
Every time I read this book I wish I could have known Mutt in 'person'.
Mutt has more amazing adventures and talents than any 'prettier' dog could ever have.
He wore driving goggles while sitting in the rumble seat of the family Model A and could raise them to his forehead by himself when he didn't need to protect his eyes from the dust.
And he loved cherries, spitting the pits casually over the side of the same rumble seat.
And we who love dogs and stories about them are lucky that he wrote this loving, sometimes hilarious, always touching tribute to his best friend.
Perhaps best known for his book "Never Cry Wolf", he is at his best when describing wildlife in the Canadian prairies where he grew up in the 1920s-1930s.
At the height of the dust bowl/depression years, Farley's father, a librarian, moved the family from Ontario to the remote prairie town of Saskatoon, Saskatchewan.
As much about his youth as about the dog who shared his adventures, this book will make you ache for a time and a lifestyle long gone.
This time around, I listened to an audio version read by James Armstrong (and including a recording of Mowat's "Owls in the Family").
O jeigu atvirai, tai vykdydamas savo knygų NAIKINIKIMO projektą, leidžiuosi į nepažintus tolius.
Į tolius, kurių metu buvau dar vaikas, gėdingai neskaitantis vaikas.
Nors iki šiol prisibijau klasikinių meistrų, keistų margaritų, įdomių mobi dikų, tolstojinių kūrinių, artėju link jų palengva - tarsi tai būtų žaizdą, kurią pradžiai reikia dezinfekuoti palei ją, o jau vėliau keliauti link židinio.
Trumpi nuotykiai, tie patys šmaikštūs ir gyvi veikėjai, įdomi teksto bendravimo maniera, kurią šiomis dienomis NAUJOVIŠKUOSE kūriniuose būtų sunku surasti.
Duok Dieve mums dabar tokių nuotykių, tokio polėkio tarp sūnaus ir tėčio, kai tėvelis dar šio to gali išmokyti vaiką.
Nuotykių knyga prieš miegą ne tik vaikams.Be to, kvepėjo Kanados gamta.
I’ve heard The Dog Who Wouldn’t Be described as perhaps Mowat’s best work.
I’m not sure if that’s true but it’s a great read.Mowat had an amazing childhood full of experiences with wildlife in the great outdoors.
Mutt the dog was Mowat’s companion as a kid, among a great menagerie that included owls, snakes, gophers and more.
Still, the pages are full of Mowat’s colorful descriptions, witty humor and unique observations.The Dog Who Wouldn’t Be is a wonderful look at a simpler time long ago.
It’s a real pleasure to spend time with the Mowats, Mutt, owls, etc.
included.
Did the man change his outlook when he grew up?
There's an awful lot of hunting, meat-eating, and caging of wild animals in this book.
I also had a lot of trouble with Dad's antics - how did Mom put up with him plus Farley plus Mutt?!
And though the bookcover says 'illustrated by Paul Galdone there are *no* pictures inside, and the dog on the cover does not look like the dog described.
(Nor does it particularly look like Galdone's other works.)I got through it because of the occasional clever lines.
For example: "A man can remember a good many things that ought to have happened."
Warning:Mutt dies at the end and it's very sad. However, Farley Mowat wrote one of the most moving sentences sentences I've ever read about his death: "And so the pact of timelessness between us was broken and I went from him into the darkening tunnel of the years." Like James Herriott, Farley Mowatt may tailor the truth for the sake of storytelling, but Mutt's tale--sorry--is funny and rewarding. Just know you'll probably cry.
Yet another argument for avoiding labeling books as "for girls" or "for boys." (Not that I pay any attention to those labels anyway.)I loved The Dog Who Wouldn't Be. The relationship between Mutt and his family---and especially Mutt and the author---was so pure and sweet, and there were so many hilarious parts, subtly written and interwoven throughout with scenes that were poignant and vivid.
I don't think it's a spoiler to say that I forgot that this was a dog book for children and that as such, it's required to leave the reader wiping away tears and snot.
This multiple reread laugh out loud tale of a Mutt is my all time favorite animal story. The quick read kids' book "Owls in the Family" is a fun companion book.Owls in the Family
I own this exact book. It has been sitting on my shelves for a very, very long time and I've read it at least twice. It makes me howl with laughter every time. Yes.
Mutt is quite a character.Lovely descriptions of the countryside.Made me laugh!
Second Farley Mowat book I have read this week and this one was as enjoyable as Never Cry Wolf. Now I want to read all of his book, not only because I think I should be reading more Canadian author, but because he has a way with words and he makes me think. read more here https://spreadingthefeast102.wordpres...
This is a light-hearted book by Farley Mowat, a writer with whom we normally associate more serious texts.
Yet Mowat is just as fun-loving as the next person and it comes out in this collection of stories about his youth in Ontario and Manitoba.
Mutt, the dog of the book's title, is a dog who very reasonably refuses to act like one.
Mutt was Mowat's constant companion throughout many boyhood forays into the wild country around wherever he happened to be living.
So began Farley Mowat's lifelong love of the natural world.
This is an easy book to get along with and one that would probably be enjoyed by children.
If laughter is the best medicine, this book should probably be prescribed frequently.It is a cute story about a boy and his experiences with the family pets.
Living in the Saskatoon prairies of Canada during the 1930’s dustbowl era, the author (noted naturalist Farley Mowat of People of the Deer and Never Cry Wolf fame) recounts many amusing incidents with their goofy dog.
“Mutt”, who climbs ladders, walks on fences and does other eccentric activities making him notorious in the community.
Also related are other amazing incidents with the budding naturalist’s other pets—snakes, owls, a turtle.
Also amusing Farley’s librarian father’s obsessions with boats.
Funny as to the dog's antics and the dad building the boat...a little heartbreaking about the owls.
Mowat is one of my favorite writers to settle down with for a long, steady read; his style is comforting and challenging at the, oh, the same time.
It was the dad and his travails with the boat trying to sail it from the dry prairie to the ocean that just made me howl out loud.
Mowat and his changing collection of animals makes for a lively, warm, honest accounting of life lived as a budding naturalist.
But be warned...this is a book with a dog at the center.
Be warned.
This book is one of the most heart warming, funny, wonderfully written books I have ever read, and I have read a LOT of books.A must read for anybody who reads.Mowat is an amazing writer.
This was a fun, light book with some undertone calling attention to the undesirable traits of human nature.
I thought the last chapter was so eloquent and beautiful, I was there seeing everything.
However, I feel that it emphasized the underlying theme of human ugliness throughout the book.
Ironically, Mutt (and other animals in the book) was portrayed very anthropomorphically and I think that carried the story and engaged the reader into the tales.
Mutt reminded me of my late Golden Retriever a bit, too, so I was doubly engaged.
This is a children's story that will engage all readers.
Farley Mowat writes this light hearted story about his childhood dog and other various animals that resided with his family in his youth.
He had a mind of his own and his antics entertained his family, the various communities they live in and readers for years.
Also thrown in are a smattering of stories about the antics of his father as well.
A great story for anyone who loves dogs, but be ready for the ending as in many books about animals.
A very interesting and moving book.
Mowat's adventures sound so amazing!
It was a great read, and easy to get lost in.Favourite Quotes:"But I was at an age when tragedy has no permanent reality.""Physical violence in lieu of argument was, to Mutt, a cardinal sin.""...it may be that she simply preferred to have me declare my pets openly, rather than having me secret them against the inevitable, and startling, moment of discovery.""...perhaps, if he and his descendants had lived long enough in human company, he might have become as sanguinary and as cruel as we conceive all other carnivores-except ourselves-to be."
This is a classic true-life children's story about a boy and his uniquely talented dog. The Mowat family is warm and loving, and the author knows how to turn a phrase for maximum humor. Even as an adult, I enjoyed it, although I thought some of the stories were "stretched" a little - but it all made for fun reading.
I remember thinking this was such a very fun book. I was totally enthralled at the idea of the back seat opening out of the back of the car - outside and subject to all the wind and dust of the road - this, of course, is where the boy and his dog sat. Somehow, this description remains the most vivid in my imagination of all the other great ones in the book.
Same author wrote "Never Cry Wolf".This review is by my Son and Father. They both read the book and highly praised its content and life's lessons. Both said they smiled all the while, laughed outloud and cried in the end. That's a lot coming from my dad who never reads fiction. My son recommends it for everyone.
I loved this book. It is about a dog and a family in Canada. The dog does not want to be a dog but more human. I read this book with my daughter, the second time I read it. I actually have read it three times.
This book was a family favorite, and as an adult I find each re-read is enjoyable as the first. This is my ultimate book for when I need to boost my spirits (although I find now I tend to avoid the ending.) Farley Mowat consistently delivered in his stories - how I wish there were more!
I've read it quite a while ago, in grade school and at home for enjoyment, but I think it was heartwarming and a nice slice of rural life in Canada.
So this is an old book, but it’s a gooder.Now, I don’t really laugh out loud when I’m reading.
Not that I’m grumpy or anything; I find a lot of things funny, they just don’t normally make me laugh.
It’s one of the funniest books I have ever read.
It’s honestly one of the funniest things I have ever read.
Just thinking about it makes me laugh.Mowat has such a fantastic way of telling his stories.
However, I think Mowat was just as distressed as the rest of us and honestly skips over this part as quickly as he can.
Published in 1957, this endearing memoir (intended for young adults) recalls the author's many adventures with his beloved dog, Mutt.
Mowat was a lifelong lover of the natural world and wrote about it with specificity and charm, if some exaggeration.
As a dog lover myself, I really enjoyed "meeting" a pet who lived an adventurously independent life with a tolerant family.
Mowat's writing style is a bit formal and understated, but rich with detail, colorful descriptions, and a palpable sense of love between a curious boy and his beloved one-of-a-kind dog.
The book now holds a special place in my heart because of how much it mirrors my own life.
Having traveled from New Brunswick to Saskatchewan I shared a lot of the same thoughts as the narrator of the novel.
I had a lot of good chuckles throughout and the book was a true joy to read.
I remember seeing this book around my house as a kid but I never read it.
I never thought I would live here, and I never thought I would read a great novel by a great writer set in a place that has become so near to my heart.
This is marketed as a children's book, but the reading level is way above that.
Not a bad thing at all, just a little more brain-intensive than I was expecting after reading "Owls in the Family." That being said, all three of us LOVED this book.
Mowat's descriptions are hilarious and stunningly beautiful.
These borderline tall-tales about Mutt's adventures with the Mowat family consistently had us laugh-out-loud.
There were a couple passages that certainly made me cry a little too, as Mowat deals matter-of-factly with death in nature, including the beloved pets.
Possibly one of the most engaging dog books I have ever read. This novel is step back into the 1940s (I believe?) and into the life of a very unique family. At times I was horrified by the way the author (a boy in the story) dealt with wild animals… (view spoiler)[ for example, at one point he just takes a baby animal from the wild (hide spoiler)] but, I suppose the times and beliefs regarding wildlife were different back then. I will not spoil the ending, but I will say that this has the best d
Possibly one of the most engaging dog books I have ever read.
At times I was horrified by the way the author (a boy in the story) dealt with wild animals… (view spoiler)[ for example, at one point he just takes a baby animal from the wild  (hide spoiler)] but, I suppose the times and beliefs regarding wildlife were different back then.
I will not spoil the ending, but I will say that this has the best dog book ending I have ever read.
(view spoiler)[ Lots of animal stories, especially dog ones, like to have the sop story sad ending about how the dog dies.
(hide spoiler)]
It only surprises me that I didn't read this book sooner.This book takes the reader through the childhood of Farley with his dog Mutt starting in the prairies of Canada a century ago.
Hilarity of their adventures or more aptly mis-adventures had me laugh out loud more times than I could count.
The writing is beautiful, poetic about the environment.
The detail of the descriptions of life for a child in Canada that long ago makes this worth reading for the historical value.
I had planned to read this to my 4yr-old but ended up enjoying it all by myself instead.
