https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1008839.Requiem_for_a_Nun
Faulkner was born in New Albany, Mississippi, the first of four sons of Murry Cuthbert Falkner and Maud Butler.
His family, particularly his mother Maud, his maternal grandmother Lelia Butler, and Caroline "Callie" Barr (the black woman who raised him from infancy) crucially influenced the development of Faulkner's artistic imagination.
Faulkner is all about the history and context of a person, and in Requiem for a Nun, of a place.
My dead eyes refuse to cry but my angst smolders and burns!"Nancy, resolute and vaguely saintly: "I am Temple's black servant and I shall die for her sins!
Praise Jesus!"Temple Drake, nervously tapping her foot, her eyes darting here and there: "Farewell, saintly black woman!
This sequel to "Sanctuary" is so much better than that one, it almost makes up for having to wade through that one just to read this one.
I wasn't sure I would be happy with that before beginning, but by the end thought it was just more example of Faulkner's willingness to take chances in his literature.
If you read "Sanctuary", this is a must, but don't read this as a stand alone.
Not the place for anyone reading Faulkner for the first time to start, but the history of Jefferson and Yoknapotawpha County given in Act 1 was really helpful to me in understanding characters and timelines from earlier novels.
Faulkner's sequel to Sanctuary, set eight years later with Temple Drake married to Gowan Stevens, gives a more complete picture of the inner workings of this woman's mind and soul, though it remains far from clear in true Faulkner style.
These add greatly to both understanding and enjoyment.Any one planning to read this book really should read Sanctuary first.
And I would suggest reading Requiem soon after.I have purposefully not provided much specific plot information here.
And, as I see it, Temple is the rather inscrutable center of both books.
Each 'Act' is in two sections; the first is a narrative, linked to the history of the jail and courthouse in Jefferson (the fictionalised town where Faulkner set so many of his novels); the second part is written as a play script taking up the story of Temple Drake, 8 years after the events in Sanctuary.I felt the play script sections were written in a rather plodding style, although they did give me a better understanding of some of the events in the earlier book.With the narrative sections, for much of the time I felt that I was reading a parody of Faulkner's writing style.
In my opinion, nobody else writes about the history and legacy of the southern states in such an emotive and impressive way.So, finally, it was a worthwhile read to end my 2015/2016 Faulknerfest with.The best known quote from Requiem for a Nun is'The past is never dead.
Faulkner experiments with a very different plot device and structure in "Requiem For a Nun." Faulkner surrounds and connects the acts of a play with three prose pieces addressing the early history of Mississippi through the construction of the county's courthouse and jail.
It's not even past." In the context of "Requiem," Faulkner tells us that our actions have lasting repercussions far into the future.
The only way we can find redemption for the acts we commit is to recognize those repercussions and suffer for them, though the law does not make us responsible for those acts.I recommend that "Requiem" be read immediately following "Sanctuary." I recommend the original text edition prepared by Noel Polk, published by Random House in 1981.
If you have read Sanctuary you MUST continue with this sequel.
Reading Sanctuary was like paying dues, this is the treat.
Twenty years after Sanctuary this is Faulkner's fifteenth novel and his work is so much better.
I did thoroughly enjoy this one, dialogue is in the form of a play, with a few visual prompts for scene and setting.
Clever and easy to visualize as black and white cinema.
The history of wilderness Mississippi, the founding of fictional Jefferson, and even the creation of the state capitol delivered as high drama, Faulkner's full page paragraphs, who could do without that.
The novel is quite well done, but the narrative summaries and history (from the beginning of Jefferson to 1952 when the reader becomes a tourist) outshine and overwhelm the present action of Temple’s attempt to find peace and salvation for her tortured soul concerning the coming execution of Nancy for the death of Temple’s child.
The narrative summaries, which precede the drama, about the history of how justice and law came into being in Jefferson and Mississippi create the setting and the background (the past) to the present story of Temple and her confession about how she was partially responsible for the death of her child and her attempt to have Nancy pardoned.
Damnation, sin and human will vs that of the almighty are neatly detailed in this play within a history lesson.
The history was interesting and educational but his writing gets in the way.
The play was superb and I learned where a favorite quote comes from: "the past is never dead.
It's not even past." Lovely brevity this is, amongst the other 100 word rambling sentences and double or triple or even quadruple negatives.
I needed a calculator to understand some sentences.
Great overall, but I still don't understand the title.
Critic Kenneth Tynan has the first - and last - word on this undramatized bosherie. Faulkner wrote the pulp "Sanctuary" for $$ (which he admits) and years later this igloo-quel on the human condition (god help us) out of guilt, maybe ?Tynan finds it a bollocks of "turgid statements" w "stammering paradoxes." The infanticide therein is "profoundly unreal, if not inhuman," he adds. Trivia: Insiders giggle that Faulkner gave the play 'rights' to onetime sweetpoo and terrible actress Ruth Ford. Which explains why she played it for a few sad weeks on Bwy. That Ford is an Edsel.
Четенето на Фокнър винаги леко ме обърква - залагането на дълги, протяжни, безкрайни изречения, които започват от една точка, а завършват толкова далече; препратките към различни времена, събития и произведения; на моменти небрежното и нехайно отношение към повествованието, което отвъд повърхността всъщност следва желязна логика. И на фона на всичко това - жестоки, морални, винаги актуални въпроси за вината, греха и спасението, тяхното зараждане, начинът, по който предопределят и живота на човека, и смъртта му.
Si passa dal tribunale nell'atto primo sino al Parlamento nell'atto secondo per poi giungere alla prigione nell'atto finale e conclusivo.Ognuno di questi scenari racconta cosa avviene ai protagonisti e cosa succede loro.Riprende da quanto avvenuto nell'opera precedente cercando di trovare una soluione, un finale alle vicende narrate.A differenza di Santuario, il cambiamento che avviene qui e di cui si parla ha a che fare con la possibilità del perdono, la possibilità di perdonare se stessi e il male fatto."C'era qualcosa più forte della tragedia a tenere due persone insieme: il perdono".In questa commedia, i personaggi cercano di trovare un significato alla propria vita e anche attraverso la sofferenza di ognuno provano a cercare la salvezza del mondo.
Qui si tenta di dare una possibilità alla speranza, alla quale sembra difficile rinunciare e resistere.
She in fact enjoys what she did in the previous book and in one of the few passages in all of Faulkner's work to directly reference religion, both Nancy the accused murderess and Temple muse on why God allows people to suffer and tempts them with sinful choices.Most powerful and important are the interspersed prose sections which detail the history of the town of Jefferson in Yoknapatawpha County, in essence the prequel to all of Faulkner's fictional work.
In many ways, this could be thought of as Faulkner's streamlined, stripped-down final expression of everything he'd written up until this point.Divided into two languages, this sequel to the phenomenal "Sanctuary" is novel/play and the distinction is important.
The culmination of Faulkner's fiction-as-mirror-to-America can be found in the novelistic bits: the raw lineage of rapacity that ends with "Requiem" itself.
And the requiem is embodied the play bits, falsely staged, Temple Drake's baby has been killed by her rescued-from-the-gutter nanny.
Maybe it is yet again that way that Faulkner grabs you by the nape, forces you at the mirror and presses your face into the glass?
Stevens living-room, 6:00 P.M.A center table with a lamp, chairs, sofa left rear, floor-lamp, wall-bracket lamps. The atmosphere of the room is up-to-date but has the air of another time – the high ceiling and cornices indicate an ante-bellum house, perhaps inherited from a spinster aunt. Sound of feet, then the door L opens and Temple enters. Her air is brittle and tense. She reaches for a cigarette on a side table and nervously lights it.  TEMPLE The best thing I can say is that it was over qu
Stevens living-room, 6:00 P.M.A center table with a lamp, chairs, sofa left rear, floor-lamp, wall-bracket lamps.
STEVENS First I will dispense with the play: it seems as though Faulkner  wanted to finish a few thoughts on “Sanctuary” and couldn’t  come up with any other way –			 TEMPLE (tightening rather than relaxing with  each drag on her cigarette) Yes...I would rate the play a '2' and the prose section a '4'...
STEVENS -- unlike his Compson appendix which added to the family  history before and after “The Sound and the Fury” and was  further embellished with a humorous chapter in “The Mansion”  concerning Jason and the land that had been the golf course  that had been part of Compson mile… The lights go completely down.
As before, he distracts his audience with incessant worries and soft-spoken tragedies without really expanding on the truth contained within his narrative until later on and the play form makes it that much more effective by focusing primarily on dialogue and not the colorful description that ends to surround it.This is the first Faulkner book I’ve read where we get to continue on in a character’s life after her initial appearance in a different novel.
A thousand tiny threads coming together to form what? A country? A soul?
The book intersperses a long rambling history of the imaginary county in Mississippi that is the setting for many of Faulkner's novels, with a play regarding the exploits of the protagonist from 'Sanctuary' eight years later.
Either on their own would have been somewhat entertaining, but not long enough for a book.
The history segment I found interesting.
Faulkner did a remarkable job of incorporating real history of the country with his imaginary characters in his imaginary county.
The play was also interesting--Temple Drake reveals some more detail regarding her experiences in 'Sanctuary' giving the reader additional clarity.
It's a strange text -- part description of place, part drama -- and the description of place is very much in Faulkner's high modernist mode, but with this book (published in 1950) the style feels very much like a tepid holdover, and there's no real urgency driving it as there was in Absalom, Absalom!
Then the drama is very problematic in racial terms: an African American woman sacrifices herself, by killing a white baby, to prevent her mother from running away.
Of course, this woman would do that to save the white folks.
This is lesser Faulkner, but still the best work I've read in the last few months. A sequel of sorts to Sanctuary, Faulkner has written a play in which is sandwiched three longish chapters of the history of the town of Jefferson and the State. The chapters at time degenerate into near-Faulkner parody (long sentences, words not in Kindle dictionary), but still gripping reading to me, and preferable, in my opinion, to the play.PS - This work has the famous quote: "The past is never dead. It’s not even past."
"era come se avesse capito per la prima volta che si deve- che tutti devono- o comunque possono dover pagare per il proprio passato; che il passato è qualcosa di simile a una cambiale con una clausola truccata che fin quando tutto va bene può venir manomessa ordinatamente ma che il destino o la fortuna o il caso possono far scadere senza avvertimento. vale a dire, lo aveva saputo, aspettato sempre e non se n'era curata perché sapeva che se la sarebbe cavata, che era invulnerabile per semplice integrazione, femminilità"[vorticoso, memorabile. sto cercando di dirlo, di dirlo abbastanza]
Remarkable to read this now ... story of Temple Drake's self-loathing confession, victimized black nanny ... apparently Faulkner's revulsion/compulsion to express Southern Gothic. Yet strangely unself-aware that his focus on the white deb's infamy skews away from the actual victim who is routinely dismissed as Not the Point, already Lost. Surprised this hasn't been recently resurrected in the media.
La storia della contea di Yokpanatawna, con le sue poetiche descrizioni è inframezzata dal dialogo teatrale, quasi un seguito di Santuario.Ora capisco perché ne fanno un maestro di McCarthy, effettivamente ci vedo anche i prodromi di "Sunset Limited" nel bel dialogo finale tra la bianca e la nera che discutono sulla vita, la morte, la redenzione, il dolore.
It's like Faulkner sucked everything entertaining and affecting out of Sanctuary (the prequel to this) only to write his stiffest, most pretentious novel since Mosquitoes.
There are no nuns in this book.
Faulkner’s works are consistently and simultaneously challenging and esoteric while being almost alarmingly relatable.
Structurally, Requiem for a Nun is unlike any work Faulkner produced.
The novel is a sequel to Sanctuary, Faulkner’s tale of debauchery and violence related to a southern debutante and an ill-advised trip to a bootlegger’s center of operations.
All the while, Faulkner juxtaposes the play portion of the novel with his famous, one of a kind prose centering on the founding of Jefferson, Mississippi and the history of his brainchild - Yoknapatawpha County.
William Faulkner is among the greatest novelists to ever live.
Faulkner obviously could not leave Temple Drake as we last saw her in Sanctuary.
There was more to her story and it must have haunted him, as it haunted me, for he returned to her twenty years later to put her soul under a microscope.I, unlike so many, do not view Temple as an evil person.
The history is riveting and it is unbelievable how much information and emotion Faulkner is able to convey in a these rather short sections.I pondered the title.
A requiem is a mass for the dead soul--and that is easy enough to equate to Temple.

The story that I was really more interested in was the idea of the "tamed Parisian" architect tethered to a slave and keep in captivity to organize the Mississippi's wilderness.
I was not interested in Temple, at first at least, although I became slightly interested in her story with Nancy near the end.
And yes, the language used to describe Nancy was most disturbing, and continually reiterated.
Did it really need to be?
Would the idea have worked the same?
And finally I ask myself, "Why exactly did the girl child (and grown female children) need to be cruxified?"
The opening piece, about the founding of the jail, is first-rate Faulkner, the rest Faulkner trying to be Sophocles and not succeeding. It's worth reading to see, side by side, how easily mediocre writing dates itself, whereas the great writing is timeless. (The opening piece was reprinted as a short story in The Faulkner Reader, so you can find it there.)
J'ai presque honte de penser autant de mal de cette oeuvre, qui est un "classique" mais je me suis ennuyée, presque de bout en bout (un peu moins aux scènes de théâtre). Encore heureux que je l'ai lue en anglais !
