https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/603422.The_Moosewood_Cookbook
So I went into things with open eyes, deciding to look at the book as a representation of the food of not many different cultures from which it borrowed recipes, but of a particular American culture and time: the brown rice, beans-and-sprouts hippie culture which we so easily poke fun at now but which was responsible for so much of the diversified eating options we now take for granted, from the availability of yogurt and cottage cheese in normal supermarkets to the return of cooking with the seasons.Later, as so often also happens with me and cookbooks, the Moosewood cookbook and I parted ways when the roommate who owned it ([http://www.zacharykeeting.com/]) moved away.
The first cookbook I ever owned.
Actually, I stole it from my mom when I went to college, and the recipies are annotated with her notes from when I was a little kid.
I love the dated aspects of the writing, like when Katzen explains what tofu is and how its hard to find, or when she introduces you to this exotic, wonderful dip called hummus.
Classic, hearty veggie cooking, this is before TVP or Morning Star, back when being a vegetarian meant eating vegetables.
I've used this less as I've aquired more cookbooks, but I always come back to it.
I prefer this classic, older edition - the newer one is just wrong.
This cookbook is not without its flaws -- the "ethnic" dishes are frequently repulsive -- but there's some really good, hearty earnest-white-person food up in here. The hummus, pasta sauce, Brazilian black bean soup, refritos, and lasagna recipes are absolute staples.
My mom's copy has been taped back together, set on fire, and covered in too many ingredients to list.
That adds to the appeal for me because I know it is something that she has cherished.
When I became a vegetarian I thought "oh yes now Moosewood is mine." Then I realized that probably 350ish days out of the year I don't have time to be a bloody gourmet chef, you know?This doesn't diminish my love for the cookbook.
It does mean that I can't really move past loving anything but the aesthetics because I have never really had time to explore the culinary value of the dishes inside.

I have not cooked from this old favorite for quite a while but pulled it out to make the Hungarian Mushroom Soup this week and remembered just how much I love Mollie Katzen. A classic. Link to a pretty wonderful bowl of soup: http://kahakaikitchen.blogspot.com/20...
I remember an unschooling advocate using Mollie Katzen as an example of a "glorious generalist," which seems funny to me now: "ZOMG she can cook AND draw!" After I had read the whole thing, I knew why I had never made anything from this cookbook, and I knew that I never would make anything from it.
Maybe I've just had too much Mexican food that's really Italian, but the idea of putting oregano and basil and bell peppers in enchiladas makes me want to puke.
Not bell peppers.
I just can't trust a cook who advocates stuff like that.
Classic, delicious vegetarian recipes, although some are dated because it was published decades ago.
Twenty years and nearly two million copies later comes the miniature edition 'Moosewood Cookbook Classics' that gives a selection of Mollie's wholesome, healthy food.Mollie treats us to the whole gamut of dishes beginning with soups and working her way through salads, sauces and dips, entrées and finally desserts; all recipes are complete with preparation time and it is all followed by some useful pantry notes.Split Pea Soup sounds interesting and it reminds me of when I was a boy and I used to have the job of removing the peas from their pods prior to cooking and I used to eat plenty of them along the way, or if one prefers there is Gypsy Soup, 'a delicately spiced Spanish-style vegetable soup'.
Sample recipe below:Mushroom Curry4 tbsp butter2 cloves minced garlic1 c chopped celery1 1/2 lb.
chopped mushrooms1 tsp ground cumin1 tsp cinnamon1 tsp turmeric1 tsp powdered ginger1/2 tsp dry mustard1/2 tsp ground cloves3 tbsp shredded, unsweetened coconut1 tbsp honeyjuice from 1 lemon3 lg tomatoes2 lg cooking apples1 1/2 tsp salt (or more, to taste)lots of ground black pepperwater to steam (about 3/4 cup)1 c sliced almonds2 tbsp sweet butter1.
In a large skillet, begin cooking onions and garlic in butter.
When onions are soft, add celery and mushrooms.
When celery is slightly tender, add apples and tomatoes (both in 1 1/2" slices) and coconut.
This is a great collection of vegetarian options and most of the recipes are pretty easy and you can adjust them easily if you want to include your favorite veggies.
I make this recipe (as did my mom in the 70's and 80's) all the time and it is always perfect.
Mac and Cheese Lite--it's not really lite but tastes it because they have you add yogurt, cottage cheese, and veggies.
Except try not to light the pot on fire and then your carpet like I did.Don't bother with the broccoli pastry thing, kind of dry.
I have an original paperback copy of the cookbook from the 1970's.
I first got the cookbook in college and loved the hippy vibe.
Though never a vegetarian or a serious cook, I did make some of the recipes.
Through the years, I've kept the cookbook and have consulted it for recipes.
Most of the time, I've adapted them to suit whatever I've been cooking.
I just consulted "Moosewood" again yesterday and made (a modified version) of Mollie Katzen's multi bean salad recipe.
A few years ago, my husband and I visited Ithaca, N.Y. We made sure to visit the "Moosewood" restaurant.
For me as a baker at Zomick's it is a good thing to see some of the recipes that are used in this kosher restaurant, which is one of the best known natural food restaurants in New York for some 40 years now. Haven't had a chance to prepare some of their recipes, bur mainly because I pan to go to their restaurant and order the foods the prepare. I think it is the best way to appreciate this cookbook - pick a recipe and order it from the menu... that is if you visit New York - Zomick's
I've used this cookbook so much it is falling apart. My favorite: Carrot Soup. Unfortunately, I can't use it much anymore as most of the recipes have milk products and I have a husband who is lactose intolerant. Still, I've been able to substitute for a few of them. A great cookbook and inspiration for eating well.
heavy on dairy
A classic.
I’m using my mother’s giant old paperback from the 90’s, back when she was new age acid tripping hipster!
There’s a nice author’s introduction, but it’s an introduction to Mollie Katzen, not the book or the food, so don’t read it if you’re looking for anything practical.Every recipe is accompanied by lavish pen-and-ink decorations by the author, cute little folk-art type things, and these are really annoying after about, ooooooooh, one page.
Cooks at Home is meant for the serious cook--someone who is actually going to set up a vegetarian kitchen, shop, plan meals, entertain guests, feed children, worry about nutrition, and clean up afterwards.
By contrast, Katzen's book, like a lot of 21st-century cookbooks, seems to be aimed at readers, not cooks.
I have relied on a few non-Katzen Moosewood cookbooks (Moosewood Sundays, Moosewood New Classics) myself over the past few years; in fact, I wouldn't want to live without them.
It was meant for people who only knew meat and potatoes cooking; it was meant for people who didn't already know how to prepare basic greens or salads; for people who looked at tofu like it was an alien substance, and asked tempeh...what?
If you're one of those people, please, read this book!If you know the basics of vegetarian cooking, I wouldn't bother.
I was introduced to the Moosebook Cookbook in the days when I had vegetarian roommates who'd buy the chow if I did the cooking.
I was vegetarian by economic circumstance.
I haven't yet been disappointed by a recipe.
The recipes can be made in their original (buttah, sugah, eggs!) forms or the healthier versions.
Two favorite recipes: Lentil-Walnut Burgers and Sweet Potato Pancakes (Though, I add cumin to the latter).
I've yet to make one of Katzen's dessert recipes, perhaps because vegetarian desserts aren't much of a stretch.
My mom had a copy when I was growing up, and even though my family weren't vegetarians, this book was used to a good extent.
At some point I became a vegetarian, snd so I used it a good deal more!
A testament to this is my husband, (who never would have touched eggplant in his life) who upon eating this dish, decided it was the best thing since sliced bread.
I'm no longer a vegetarian but being one once introduced me to many foods that I still eat today.
I still use this cookbook a lot, and I think the original is still the best.
If you're looking to cook authentic cuisine from different countries, this book is not really the book to use.
Moosewood is more of an interpretation of different foods mixed with a hearty / homey / comfort / vegetarian style.
Also, the ingredients for the recipes are usually spot on, but can often be adjusted proportion wise to fit personal taste (I often add more garlic when called for).
The recipes are usually pretty hard to mess up, easy to follow, and tasty.
I cook from this book often as it reminds me of one of my homes (Ithaca, where the Moosewood collective is located), and people always appreciate when I bring a Moosewood dish to a potluck!
I am posting this review for Connie, who bought me this book a few years ago and who just joined Goodreads!Anyway, I love this cookbook!
The first couple times I tried anything out of this book, I thought to myself, "Wow - that was a lot of chopping." But as I've become more aware of the benefits of eating much less meat and processed packaged food, and as I've become more adept at handling all those veggies (I finally got a full size cuisinart for Christmas!) this has become my fallback cookbook.
This has been such an influential book for me.
Excellent vegetarian cookbook!
It actually made my husband (a meat and potatoes farm boy) appreciate vegetarian meals and we eat meat-free at least once a week.
The only downside is that we now know that vegetarian doesn't necessarily mean healthy and several of these recipes are high-fat cholesterol.
Just use what you currently know to lighten them up.
Still an excellent cookbook.
Some favorite recipes are Cream of Asparagus Soup (p.3), California Waldorf Salad (p.56), Lentil-Walnut Burgers (p.106) with Zippy Cheese sauce (p.82), Swiss Cheese and Mushroom Quiche (p.111), Zucchini-Feta Pancakes (p.146) and Mexican Corn & Cheese Bread (p.179).
I love the Moosewood cookbook.
Even though I am not vegetarian anymore, I find cooking meat daunting - cooking in general really, but meat especially - so I like to use this cookbook.
Plus, a lot of these recipes were my mom's staples so it reminds me of her.
I may even try the gado gado recipe although as a child I couldn't stand it and dreaded when my mom made it; now stir-fried vegetables with a spicy peanut sauce sounds delectable.
Our daughter introduced me to this cookbook when she was a teenager and a vegetarian (she now also will eat chicken & turkey- but won't cook it herself!). I love its simplicity and its outlook on cooking. Have made several recipes. Within the last year, we actually got to the Moosewood twice, finally getting our daughter there! It's awesome. Incidentally, I now own at least 5 or 6 books either from the Moosewood Collective or by Mollie Katzen (since she left Moosewood). And I am not and have never been vegetarian (just don't over-indulge in red meat!).
This handprinted cookbook, Moosewood Collective's first of many books, is a pleasure to read --the artwork is whimsical, the printing is lovely, the commentary is joyful, and of course the recipes are wonderful. It's already my 'go to' for dips and spreads, and it makes my Moosewood collection seem complete. Found it at the Kincardine Farmer's Market -bought it for $4 from an old guy who said "everybody should have this book". I can't disagree.
Not technically vegan but vegetarian. I know I've read this cookbook before and enjoyed it.The recipes are pretty simple and I like the cutesy, handwritten style of the book. You can tell that a lot of love went into it. There are definitely a bunch of recipes that I plan to try out. Most of the recipes in the book are pretty standard, so it's probably a good cookbook for somebody looking to go vegetarian but who doesn't know how to cook.
I really enjoy Molly Katzen's books. The recipes are really simple and use easy to find ingredients. Her writing is charming and devoid of the "simplicity snobbery" attitude sometimes found in other California cuisine books. Sometimes I wish she used more seasoning in her recipes, but that's easy enough to figure out on your own. The text is hand-written and she illustrated the book herself. Adorable. A great first vegetarian cook book.
I first heard about this book about two years ago - it had been explained to me as the "bible of vegetarian cooking." Well, I don't know about that, but there are a lot of fun recipes in here. It's a beautiful book, too, hand-lettered and illustrated. One of those cookbooks I just love to read - way too easy to get so lost in it there's no time to cook dinner! Plan on picking up a copy of my own.
