https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1648670.Plutonia
Bunch of russian scientists go to the north pole and go through to a hollow earth scenario filled with diffrent eras of animals such as sabretooth tigers and dinosaurs. What makes it awesome, is it seems they are on a tasting safari, and do science with their stomach. Every three pages they run into a extinict animal, shoot it "like a true scientist" and eat it. Its unintentionally hysterical.
Grāmata bija ok. Kaitināja tas, ka zinātniekiem nonākot neskartā pasaules daļā, viss kas viņiem ir prātā ir nogalināt, ievākt galvaskausu un ādas paraugus, kā izsaimniekot neskarto dabu, izveidot raktuves, izvadāt dzīvniekus pa visas pasaules zooloģiskajiem dārziem utt.Patika cīniņi ar milzīgajām skudrām un satikšanās ar pirmatnējiem cilvēkiem.Grāmatas otrā puse lasījās raiti un ar interesi.
A book very much in the vain of Journey to the Center of the Earth, The Lost World, the The Land That Time Forgot etc.However unlike Journey to the Center of the Earth this is a true Hollow Earth novel with all of the geological absurdity that that implies, which is one of the few interesting aspects of the work.The other good points are that its russian which (on very rare occasions) makes it feel a little different.
Also there's some decent repartee amongst our protagonists at times.Finally there are a few moments of interest towards the end of the novel.The other 80% or so is unfortunately pretty boring.
yes thats what plutonia is.
The book gives you a thorough account of the discovery of the subterranean planet plutonia.
the book gets way too one-dimensional at times.
At times consecutive redundant chapters make it really hard to go through it.
In plutonia the explorers find 'ice-age' and further up the 'jurassic period'..
The flora and fauna of those periods excite you.
And lastly they find the pre-historic men, I was a bit disappointed there as It was quite late and the book was about to reach its end...overall its an exciting read with some monotonous periods..
Highly disappointing (I agree with Wreade1872's review). Intended as a pretext to make known the prehistoric flora and fauna (mostly fauna), the book becomes quickly boring and repetitive, despite its writing style à la Jules Verne.

Uno de los escritores rusos que mejor supo trasladar el espíritu de la ciencia ficción de finales del XIX principios del XX en el ámbito soviético fue Vladimir A.
Obruchev es el autor de dos novelas poco conocidas en Occidente y que beben directamente del Viaje al centro de la Tierra de Julio Verne y del Mundo Perdido de Arthur Conan Doyle.
Estos relatos de evasión fueron los que utilizó Obruchev para hacer dos de sus obras: Plutonia (escrita en 1915 pero no publicada hasta 1924) y La tierra de Sannikov (1926) [2].La reseña completa en español en http://elbiblionauta.com/es/2015/03/2...La ressenya completa en català a http://elbiblionauta.com/ca/2015/03/2...

Written by a Russian scientist as a way to teach by leading people through the geologic epochs as part of an adventure story. Wonderful depictions of the creatures in their natural surroundings. As they travel they experience different ages of the earth. It was written in 1924 so some of the information is very out of date but accurate as far as the geology and ecological interactions go.
Exciting, relatively original, while aged a bit.
Читала оочень давно и помню, очень понравилась.
Amazing description and illustrations.....Although the loss of all proof at the end was predictable...
I read this book in the 1950's in grade school. I recently bought a copy on Amazon. It is one of my favorite books of all time.
