https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/673158.Darkover_Landfall
It’s definitely your classic Robinsonesque ‘stranded in a strange place’ story, but it’s wonderfully told.
If you’re a person who does not read books written by people whose opinions and/or actions are worthy of the utmost contempt, don’t even touch this.Marion Zimmer Bradley is one of my favourite authors.
I read books written by people I disagree with on important issues, just like I have friends I disagree with on important issues.
I get that this was published in 1972, when MZB had no idea what gender equality would look like in a more ideal form, but...
I'd hoped that by going back to the spaceship part of the Darkover saga, I'd get something with men and women on equal footing - you know, sort of like the same era in Pern?
It's just so bizarre, this endless litany of women behaving like spoilt children by following careers (at least, this is how it's written) and then refusing to recognize the biological imperative of childbirth and having to be set straight by men.
Perhaps I was expecting something different from a woman author who has at times flirted with feminism, but this is ridiculous.
But then a man explains to this woman that her unwillingness to bear a child is a mental illness!
Man is a rationalizing animal, so sociologists called it "Women's Liberation" and things like that, but what it amounted to was a pathological reaction to overpopulation and overcrowding.
Women who couldn't be allowed to have children, had to be given some other work, for the sake of their mental health.
By the time the baby comes, you'll probably have normal hormones too, and make a good mother.
I know I have a lot of reviews that have become "backed up" but I must admit I have been righting a few outstanding wrongs - like the story of Darkover.I first came across the series in the early days of my getting in to reading what I wanted to read (as compared to what school told me to read).
So if you want to read the story that set up the world in a modern classic this is a fascinating read but one thing I do realise now, one that does not affect the other books, its is more curiosity rather than required reading.
I'm a fan of Marion Zimmer Bradley, but my affection for her rests not on the Avalon books, which I didn't care for, but her Darkover series.
The Darkover series as a whole features strong female characters, but it has enough swashbuckling adventure to draw the male of the species, and indeed this series was recommended to me by a guy (when we were in high school!)Although some books are loosely connected, having characters in common, they were written to be read independently and were written out of sequence.
Darkover Landfall comes first chronologically in terms of the timeline of the events of the series, but it isn't where I'd recommend you start.
This is the first Darkover books in terms of internal chronology, showing the emergency landing of a Terran colony ship on the remote planet, and the subsequent struggle to create and maintain a viable society on an alien world without high technology.
It doesn't feel anything like the main books of the series, which are high science fantasy with psychic powers, but I enjoy it anyway.
Is this dystopian horror hidden behind the happy glow of Darkover science fantasy?
AHAHAHA 1970s. My favourite part: the bit where the male lead goes 'I'm not a chauvinist, but HERE ARE SOME TOTALLY SEXIST OPINIONS EVEN FOR THE 70s.' (I paraphrase.) I wish there was more detail about everyday survival stuff. It feels more like a sketch to explain some backstory than a novel.
I was able to sympathize with exactly two: Judy Lovat and Camilla Del Rey. Well, three, but the third is a spoiler.(view spoiler)[If only this had been written after 1972.Falling in the early days of Bradley's SCA involvement, it seems natural to me that she should create a fantasy world in which her Earth colonists are forced back to the Middle Ages.
If her imagination had only extended to a world in which the colonists weren't trapped pre-women's lib, I might even have believed they came from a spacefaring society.
Seriously, barely two or three pages can pass without her making some kind of comment denigrating women.
Man is a rationalizing animal, so sociologists called it "Women's Liberation" and things like that, but what it amounted to was a pathological reaction to overpopulation and overcrowding.
But the rest of the book supports him as being right.I don't even know what to do with that.So yeah, I think I can safely write off revisiting any more of these.
If I am being totally honest, I would have to say that she is not the best writer in the world, and considering the massive amount of work she put out, some of it is "hack" work.The Darkover novels always stand out, however.
Part of this for me is that there is almost consistent theme of the good of the society versus the rights of the inidivual in the books, even in the earlier ones.
That theme is one full view here.Landfall tells the story of the colonization of Darkover.
One of the undercurrents in the novel is the relationships between men and women.
Bradley really challenges the reader here, and that is a good thing.
The author has to realistically figure out how the marooned characters are going to set up society in the absence of all controls and influences, thus realistically answering philosophical questions on the nature of people and their moral natures, and then convincingly portray the consequences.
To my mind, Bradley achieves this difficult task with a great deal of verisimilitude and tells a fascinating story in the process.All of us human beings have our pet idiosyncrasies, the lies we tell ourselves that simplify our views of our extremely complicated society.
Landfall was first published in 1972 - ten years after the publication of "The Planet Savers", Bradley's first Darkover novel.Don't expect too much in terms of storyline, this book is intended to set the scene and fill a chronological gap providing the reader with background info on the initial phase of the planet's colonisation: Who were the first humans on Darkover?
Rather than viewing motherhood as an inferior choice, which is to be avoided at all costs - the dominant viewpoint held by the spaceship's first officer -, its true value is uncovered by the characters in the end.My verdict: Darkover Landfall was a highly enjoyable read and a good starting point for getting a feel of the series.
A reread. She holds up to time.

Bradley is often credited with successfully blending the elements of science fiction and fantasy, and she does so brilliantly in this book.Darkover Landfall is largely a “hard” science fiction novel; it tells the story of how a colony ship, forced badly off course by a gravitational anomaly, crash lands on the only planet it can find with a habitable atmosphere.
As the survivors seek to deal with the climate and come more and more aware that repair of the ship is unlikely for many generations, the new conflict develops—should the colony develop its own technology and culture, one that is appropriate to the world on which they find themselves, or should they cling to Earth’s ways.
Wow. That was one special level of bad.(view spoiler)[I can sort of accept a patriarchal society, women being treated as wombs, etc.
in the more 'medieval-like' novels of the series, because 1) it fits a certain conception of 'dark ages obscurantism', as cliché as that may be, and 2) as far as I remember, in those books, it was often presented as something that isn't so good: while it does remain infuriating, it's part of the conflict underlying those narratives.Here, though, in a group of engineers, colonists, space crew, scientists, where men and women have similar levels of skills, with gender equality laws on Earth?
This book is something like a POSTliminary cartoon--an attempt to explain logically how people got in to the sort of situations we see them in in 'later' (though often written earlier) books.
It's highly unlikely that the Terrans could have made it to the stars without modifying the technology, and the attitude toward technology, that Bradley saw around her during the writing of most of the Darkover books.
Do the highly educated ship's crew REALLY believe that future generations will be so wanting in critical capacity that they won't recognize that the archives were established by humans, and should be subject to critiques, exegesis, and alteration based on local conditions?
An interesting introduction to a world I'd like to learn more about.
The characters were only mildly interesting, near the end some grew on me but in general they were not that complex.
The whole story felt like a set up with no pay off (at least not in this book) and there could have been more to the ending.
However, the world itself was immensely interesting and I'm looking forward what this series has to offer next.
I liked that the believes and plans of the characters were challenged, even though more time would have been needed to look deeper into these problems.
Kann mich den vielerorts negativ geäusserten Stimmen zum chronologisch ersten Band der Darkover-Reihe nur anschliessen (schlechte Dialoge, unfassbar sexistisch, trashig, uvm) Da man seine Meinung (dieser ansonsten gefeierte Serie) jedoch nicht gleich mit diesem als Prequel gedachten Start bilden soll, wage ich mich mal an den Folgeband; kann eigentlich nur besser werden.
An ok book but it just doesn't really go anywhere - it's clearly written as a nothing more than a prequel filling in Darkover's history.
It's a colony ship, but the colonists don't seem to have basic equipment like personal communicators or any kind of transportation, and the captain doesn't mention any standard emergency procedures for crashing on an alien planet, surely a basic part of officer training?
The ship doesn't have anything like a distress beacon or any means of communicating off-world, it's just assumed that once they crashed they'll never be found, no-one would be sent to look for them.
I already knew how it had to end, being somewhat familiar with Darkover, and the journey of getting to that point was not holding my attention.
**** SPOILERS ****Still, I gave it 3 stars, not 2, because of the moral, psychological and even religious questions that are brought up in the last few chapters.
These things could have been developed further, but it was enough to add another star.
For Darkover fans, I think it would be a must-read to really understand the origin of the planet's civilization.
For everyone else, there are better books, unless you intend to read the entire Darkover series.
I remembered it as quite simplistic, and misogynistic. I'm no longer so sure. It sets a frame for the other darkover novels, with the male/female imbalance. Sometimes, its awkward/clumsy ("the girl") but gives some reasons for the imbalanced society of darkover, prejudiced against women. On the whole, I liked it
Choisi et lu pour mon cours de Paralittérature. J'ai choisi ce livre car Marion Zimmer Bradley était apparemment l'une des rares femmes de son époque qui avait su s'imposer en science-fiction. Et bien pour moi ce livre a été une grosse déception et honnêtement si ce n'était pas pour un cours je ne l'aurais même pas terminé.
I like MZB although at times, her characterization is lacking. I've read the entire Darkover series and I like them all. I like her fascination with linguistic minutiae and genealogy. The only thing I regretted about this book is that I had hoped it might reveal the origins of some of the later Darkover mythology about Hastur, the Lord of Light and his counterparts. :sigh:

I read this book a few times during my Darkover period,otherwise known as the 1990's.
The book hasn't changed, but I have.
A man declares he isn't a male chauvinist but slaps his female companion when she gets hysterical?
Camilla is brainwashed into believing that she was brainwashed to not want children?There is a lot that I do like about the book.
I love books and stories about colonizing new planets.
Clearly the book hasn't aged well when it comes to the portrayal of the female characters.
I'm not sure I want to reread some of the other books in the series, especially Thendara House.
No me parece que sea debido a que eran los comienzos de MZB como escritora, porque si bien el texto puede carecer de estilo, la trama puede estar buena...
Es una lástima, ya que había montones de ideas para hacer reflexionar al lector y quedan apenas desarrolladas o bien son muy tontas (para no revelar la trama, lo que dijeron por ahí de la camisa de Del Rey o bien la fécula...)Entiendo que la autora quisiera escribir sobre los comienzos para que luego se desarrolle un mundo estilo medieval / psíquico, pero la resolución del capitán es lo más tonto y erróneo de todo.

Relecture de mon adolescence. A l'époque j'avais bien aimé la série, bien que l'ayant lue dans le désordre. ^^ Je l'ai donc redécouverte car il ne m'en reste aucun souvenir. J'ai bien aimé la théorie improbable de la population viable minimale pour peupler une planète avec le chiffre dérisoire invoqué par Bradley, mais bon, ne chipotons pas trop... Il faut juste voir ce volume comme une introduction à l'univers de Ténébreuse dont il donne la clé.
This was hard going. The sexism left a bad taste. The writing wasn't great. And the characters weren't particularly fleshed out. But ... A very interesting premise, a colonising space ship getting stranded and rediscovering certain innate extra sensory powers - probably more fantasy than science fiction. I believe there are other books about Darkover and this one is recognised as not a good 'un. So I will try another I reckon.
