https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/292740.Sleepers
The book starts with the story of the boys growing up in the rough neighbourhood of Hell’s Kitchen in the 1960s.The friends were like any boys – they loved movies, comics, sports, baseball cards, played childish pranks and surprisingly a couple of them also loved books.
They or rather their parents had a lot of problems at home, life in the Hell’s Kitchen was full of hardships and struggles – the boys only had each other for support.The author also writes,  “ Life without friends was harder.
John and Tommy took to a life of crime, while the author and Michael left the neighbourhood and tried to live an honest life.
I remember reading this shortly before the movie came out (which I had only seen about once or twice itself) and the events stayed with me ever since then.The story was a harrowing one exploring the effects of how life can change in an incident with a minor mistake of childhood play.
After a childhood prank that ends in the death of a local vendor, the four friends of the book are sentenced to a brutal juvenile prison where the prison guards abuse them in horrific ways.
Dažniausiai knygos, kurioms skiriu daugiausia žvaigždučių, pavergia mane ypatinga kūrinio kalba. Šįkart nokautavo siužetas. Vietomis norėjosi užversti knygą ir ištrinti iš atminties viską, ką perskaičiau. Sukrečianti ir šokiruojanti, palikusi įspūdį ilgam.
Possibly the most disturbing book that I have ever read. After I finished it (I was fifteen), I walked around my house in shock muttering "oh my god" over and over. Originally I had picked it up out of a bookshelf without knowing what it was about, so the subject matter was more of a surprise than if I had known what to expect. I actually feel somewhat horrible giving this five stars, but it was an utterly engrossing and captivating book. Honestly, I wouldn't recommend this for most people I know, but it is an amazing book.
I read this book many years ago when I was in high school and I wanted to re read it to see how I felt about it this many years later.
The first part of the book describes the relationships and friendship between the four boys, we get to know their personalities and characteristics and have some insight as to how each of them will cope in this hideous environment.
The boys end up in some mischief which has dire consequences, they are sent to a reform school where they will endure horrendous physical, sexual and emotional abuse for the duration of their sentence.
It was the summer of '97 and I got grounded for sneaking out of my bedroom window (again) to meet up with friends to drink warm, pilfered beers and smoke mexican ditch rat-weed (probably).So while I'm grounded I read this book and I can't put it own.
Because I read it so quickly, I still have a week to kill with nothing to do.
So i read it again.
I had friends come over to try and get me to sneak out again but i blow em off and say 'nah, im good actually, got this book im reading'.
Perskaičius kažką tokio, žinant, jog tai tikra istorija - tu negali pamiršti.
Tokios knygos kaip "Pragaro virtuvės vaikėzai" priverčia tave pamiršti savo šiltą lovą, karštus pusryčius.
Perskaičius tu suvoki, jog tai ką laikai kasdienybe, įprastais ar nepamainomais dalykais yra dovanos, kurių netekęs tu irgi galėjai virsti pabaisa.Lorenzo, Maiklas, Džonas ir Tomis auga skurdžiame Manhatano rajone.
Šie keturi berniukai yra tikrai geri vaikai, ir jų mokyklos pastorius gali tai tik paliudyti.
Ši knyga yra apie tai ką tokios įstaigos gali padaryti paprastiems, blogio nepaliestiems vaikams.
Ar normalu, jog vaikas yra prievartaujmas iki sąmonės netekimo, o valdžia mano jog "įsimetė infekcija"?
The book is very well written and graphic in its portrayal of violence and sex, but I had a sneaking suspicion it may be mostly fiction even while I was reading it years ago. A quick search on the net now convinces me that there is a huge controversy regarding the veracity of the story.If it's a true story, it rates five stars.If it's fiction paraded as truth, it rates only one star.Since there is no way of establishing the truth, I plumb for three stars.
The author, Lorenzo Carcaterra in his book, "Sleepers" tells the story as himself reflecting back to when he was a boy growing up in Hell's Kitchen (a city in New York) in the 1960's, and a place he and his three other friends were forced to go to after pulling a stupid prank that almost kills someone.
The way Carcaterra decribes everything,especially his life in Hell's Kitchen, you really get a sense of what he's like and everything relates to his character as a boy.
not to sound cliche but, a total page turner!Lorenzo Carcaterra, Sleepers
Nuomonė visiškai nepakito perskaičius antrąsyk, praėjus septyneriems metams.
Suskunlar bir süredir elimde idi nihayet okuyabildim.
Kitap 1960'larda Amerika'nın sorunlu bir mahallesinde yaşayan dört arkadaşın dramatik hayat öyküsünü konu alıyor.
Başlarından bir çok kötü ve akıl almaz olay geçiyor, yazar bunları okura aktarırken olayları daha dramatik hale getirmeye çalışmıyor.
Hatta genel olarak yaşandığını kısa bir kaç cümle ile belirtip geçiyor, bu hoşuma giden bir tutum oldu, bu tür kitaplarda okuru daha çok etkilemek adına her şeyin abartılması beni rahatsız ediyor.
Genel olarak güzel bir kitaptı, kitapta geçen olaylar ise oldukça üzücü idi.
Kitap mükemmel bir dile ya da kurguya sahip olmasa da insanın aklında her daim kalacak karakterlere sahipti.
I read this book long before those doubts were raised, and then again after I heard about them, and my opinion of the book did not change at all.It would be better if the story was true, as Carcaterra presents it, but it does have a slight element of "yeah, sure..." that the reader has to work through, especially at the end.But, true or not, it's a great story.
I don't know how realistic that is, but it made for a great ending, and had me cheering for "the boys", even as I knew that what they were doing was far from legal.
I cannot stand that - the idea that everything here is probably true (for this author), that this kind of thing really happens all around the world, is sooo heart breaking, I, I, I....
The story just pools you in and don't let you go until you read it till the end with that pain in the chest and sadness for the little boys that were broken on so many levels...
The movie Sleepers is good - but when you read every their thought while everything was happening, you did not experience this story in a way that it is meant to be experienced...Great book, great author...standing ovation
Qualche anno fa avevo visto il film tratto dal romanzo che a sua volta dovrebbe essere tratto da fatti realmente accaduti all’autore, mi era piaciuto ma me lo ricordavo solo vagamente.
Ti fa provare tanta malinconia verso l’infanzia, la loro e un po’ anche la tua, che magari non sarà un età idilliaca, ma sempre più di quella adulta.La seconda parte, quella ambientata al carcere minorile di Wilkinson, è stata la più dura da leggere.
A volte dovevo fermarmi e chiudere il libro per un po’, e non sono una che si impressiona facilmente.
Il film me lo ricordo vagamente ma non mi sembra che sia così tanto esplicito.
The author was able to convey such images to the reader that could bring one to tears.The thing I enjoyed the most in this book was the love shared between friends.
The main characters knew that no matter what happened in the world or how life changed them that they would always be able to go to their friends in a time of need or a time of nostalgia.It taught me the importance of having someone to confide in and being the confidant.When I began to reach the final few chapters of the book, I was overtaken with sadness at the demise of each character whose struggle I had become familiar with and sympathized for.
This time around I found myself skeptical.
It was too stylized and unlikely; I could believe it may have had its roots in truth but that doesn't make the story a full truth.
It is a pretty well-written story but I don't see it as THE TRUTH, just a version thereof most likely.
It could, in fact, be lies from beginning to end, but there probably is some truth there.
The NY Times published an article about doubts that were being expressed and as far as I could tell the story could not be verified.
This is a true story but it reads as fluidly as fiction.A gritty account of young boys sent to a detention home and the brutality they endured from the guards. Hard to read at times, but compelling.
Kažkada vaikystėje, nelabai įsivaizduoju, kiek man tada buvo, nes prisiminimas gana blankus, bet turbūt 10-12 m., mačiau filmą per TV.
Žiūrėjau jį su tėčiu ir atsimenu, kaip jis sutriko, kai prižiūrėtojai pradėjo savo juodus darbus su berniukais.
Bet atsimenu sutrikusį tėtį, bandantį paaiškinti, kas čia vyksta, kad tai blogai ir pan.Po daug metų goodreads'uose pamačiau, kad yra tokia knyga.
Čia vienas iš daugeliu atveju, kai sužinai, kad kažkoks matytas filmas iš tiesų pastatytas apie knygą.
Paskaičiau ir ji man padarė didžiulį įspūdį - tai tikrai nuostabi knyga.
Perskaičiau jau senokai, bet dar atsimenu.
Dabar laikas dar kartą pažiūrėti filmą.
A MUST read.
The movie was almost spot on, but the book told character thoughts, gave more detail on background people and places, all and all it was just a heart wrenching, gut-twisting read..
1.The flippant way these kids were "fed to the wolves" so to speak For a Prank, a Joke Gone Horribly Horribly Wrong!!2.
How it completely turned these kids lives upside-down...
(view spoiler)[ at one point they call John the caring one.
(hide spoiler)]3.
Because if this is true.....THIS HAPPENED TO KIDS ONE OF THE MOST DEFENSELESS PEOPLE OF OUR SOCIETY!!!!God Help Us...
I pretty much read this book because I had seen the movie a few years ago. I can't really say it was good because of the horrific subject matter, but the author did a great job of telling the story. I could almost see the city, hear the accents spoken. I got emotional at the things happening to the boys, and I cheered when the vengeance came.
This is going to be the book to beat this year for Best Read.
It's a rich, involving memoir of growing up in Hell's Kitchen and learning to negotiate the ins and outs of that world.
From there the rug is yanked out from underneath the author and his best friends and they end up in a whole new nightmare.
What follows is apparently also a true story, but to me -- a revenge-minded grudge-holder from way, way back -- it reads like the unlikeliest of fairytales.
My only unanswered question: Why was this an alternate selection for the Book of the Month Club instead of a main selection?
אבל שום דבר מכל מה שחוו במשך ילדותם, לא הכין אותם לחוויה שעברו במשך שנה במוסד לנערים ווילקנסון.לפי האתר של קרקטרה, הספר מהווה אוטוביוגרפיה של המחבר.
בנוסף, החלק הראשון מתאר מערכת חברויות ונאמנויות בלתי מסוייגות.גם ברקע של הספר השני שמתאר את מערכת ההתעללות, קיימת האופטימיות והתקווה, שבוודאי באה לידי ביטוי בספר האחרון והשלישי המתאר את החיים לאחר ווילקנסון.בזמנו צפיתי בסרט שנקרא "סליפרס" (sleepers) על השם המקורי של הספר (בכל זאת שחקנים מעולים כמו בראד פיט, דסטין הופמן ורוברט דה נירו קשה לפספס).
הסרט מתחיל בספר השני, אבל מביא גם קטעים מהספר הראשון.
Although their sentence is only for a few months, what they find inside is a group of guards determined to bully and abuse the boys supposedly in their care.
Eleven years later, two of the boys now work for the mob.
The lawyer takes the prosecution, using his position to manipulate the facts and evidence, while the writer works behind the scenes as a go between.
This isn't the most well-written book I have ever read, but as you know it is based on a true story, the horrors of it make you forget how it is written.
This book was gripping and vividly depicted without superfluous detail.The characters become very real, you want to reach out to them.
Even if you'd never been to Hell's Kitchen in the 60s you can be there in this book.Written by one survivor of abhorrent abuse within a New York juvenile detention centre in the 1960s, this book depicts his life - and the lives of his three friends - before, during and after incarceration in the Wilkinson Home for Boys.This is not a literary piece and it shouldn't be.
Apart from that, this is gritty, honest, measured writing with a strong cast of characters in a sadly real-life plot.I have not seen the movie.
This was a riveting read and it kept me engaged throughout.I looked at my bookshelves and realized that I had not added this book.
It is a story of four boys growing up in Hell's Kitchen.
It is there that their horrific abuse at the hands of some guards takes place.
After being released, they deal with their abuse in different ways.
Years later, two of the boys see one of the guards who tortured and raped them.
The rest of the book deals with the aftermath of their revenge.
Frankly, the book is much better.
Overall, a great story about how abuse shapes your life.
Put Stephen Kings  Shawshank Redemption in one hand, and his The Body in the other. Now put your hands together and you'll have Lorenzo Carcaterra's Sleepers; an allegedly true story of four boys who are united through life by solid friendship, never leaving each others side. An eye opener to what went on behind the bars of justice in the 1960's New York, and the 'wrong side of the law'. A gruesome story of what freedom really meant.
Oh man, how do I even begin to rate or review this book?
Fast forward 10-15 years, the two boys that turned to a life of crime happen to bump into one of the monsters from juvie and murder him.
Like the 3 Musketeers, probably.Anyway, I can't deny that this book is quite readable.
The lesser issue is that I never know how to rate something that is well written but about a horrendous subject.
Like I said, all bases are covered.
So how could someone write such a detailed book about MURDER and not get called in to answer some questions for the police?
There is speculation whether this is based on true events or not.
I'm not going to get into the argument either way but if it is true, then what happened in this book is abhorrent and unforgiveable.
If this is fictionalised, then the events are still abhorrent and could perhaps open up discussions about what could possibly be occurring, or occurred, in these types of homes/prisons.
This is a decent read, and despite the violent and graphic content, it is also quite a quick read.
The writing isn't fantastic and rather sloppy in places, but the pace is good throughout so easy enough to look beyond.
Absolutely gripping based around 4 boys growing up in Hell's Kitchen (an underlying message that not all bad/horrendous experiences will destroy your life or affect your successes- not always). Based on a true story and extremely disturbing story of raw revenge and trauma. What an exciting book to read.
