https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/138167.The_Tower
This is great poetry, great writing; even an imbecile like me can "feel" that.
But I have to admit that it is beyond my ability to truly understand the meaning, the essence of what the poet was saying, and not just with this work but any poetry.
So I just read, enjoy it (or not), and apply it to my life, my thoughts, my sensitivities (or not).This volume is considered by scholars and critics to be some of Yeats best work, and he wrote this 5 years AFTER he received the Nobel Prize in Literature.
No fading violet here; no resting on your laurels for Mr. Yeats.
Snowed in, my girlfriend cut my hair in my kitchen and I read out loud from The Tower. Later that afternoon we trudged to a coffee shop through waist-high snow and I finished it over a cup of extremely strong coffee. The coffee-shop owner had The Kinks on.

Is he the greatest English language poet of the 20th century? Maybe. The rankings don't matter. The beautiful music of these poems matters.
(3,5)
Who doesn't from time to time want to escape their "dying generations," and yet who can?The title poem, about Yeats's inhabitation of his tower in old age and about his dead and living neighbors and his own past work, makes the point still more sharply, that the soul must coexist with its incarnation, as the poet's avowed credo: And I declare my faith:I mock Plotinus’ thoughtAnd cry in Plato’s teeth,Death and life were notTill man made up the whole,Made lock, stock and barrelOut of his bitter soul, Aye, sun and moon and star, all, And further add to thatThat, being dead, we rise, Dream and so createTranslunar Paradise.I have prepared my peaceWith learned Italian thingsAnd the proud stones of Greece,Poet’s imaginingsAnd memories of love,Memories of the words of women,All those things whereofMan makes a superhumanMirror-resembling dream.In other words, our visions and imaginings, our utopias and godheads, arise from our experiences, our frailties, and our awful mortality itself—every image of the superhuman is a mirror of the human.
A beautiful edition from Penguin. Worth every penny for Sailing to Byzantium alone.
Calls for infinite re-readings.
Twenty one is a lucky number if you grabbed this book. That's how many poems you will find from the master of prose. If you haven't read Yeats, this is a great way to start.
Great book reads like Shakespeare. Speaks about legends and hidden secrets. Not recommended for those who have not read Shakespeare since a lot of it has metaphoric symbolism. The writing is great and truly made me feel everything that was presented.
When I am Yeats' age at the time he wrote  The Tower, I hope to better understand all the hidden layers of meaning he puts forth in these poems.
Released in 1928,  The Tower marks him at his most mature, serving as a contrast to all the romantic poems he'd written in the 1800s.
It's no wonder that, along with T.S. Eliot, he's considered the greatest poet of his generation.
Personally, I consider him one of the best poets of any generation.
A dying Yeats resonates with me, constantly oscillating between accepting death and hoping that he’ll leave something behind; and silently shunning the ill-equipped, ill-fated generations to come.
half-mounted man;And bring beauty's blind rambling celebrant;The red man the juggler sentThrough God-forsaken meadows; Mrs. French,Gifted with so fine an ear;The man drowned in a bog's mire,When mocking Muses chose the country wench.Did all old men and women, rich and poor,Who trod upon these rocks or passed this door,Whether in public or in secret rageAs I do now against old age?But I have found an answer in those eyesThat are impatient to be gone;Go therefore; but leave Hanrahan,For I need all his mighty memories.Old lecher with a love on every wind,Bring up out of that deep considering mindAll that you have discovered in the grave,For it is certain that you haveReckoned up every unforeknown, unseeingplunge, lured by a softening eye,Or by a touch or a sigh,Into the labyrinth of another's being;Does the imagination dwell the mostUpon a woman won or woman lost?If on the lost, admit you turned asideFrom a great labyrinth out of pride,Cowardice, some silly over-subtle thoughtOr anything called conscience once;And that if memory recur, the sun'sUnder eclipse and the day blotted out.
3.5 /5And I declare my faith;I mock Plotinus' thoughtAnd cry in Plato's teethDeath and life were notTill man made up the wholeMade lock, stock and barrelOut of his bitter soul,Aye, sun and moon and star, all, And further add to thatThat, being dead, we rise,Dream and so createTranslunar Paradise  I think a decent amount of symbolism went over my head when I was reading this, but Yeats still has some dazzling lines even for a novice like me.
Sailing to Byzantium is a beautiful poem about ageing and the spiritual/material world.
Favourite Poems- Sailing to Byzantium - The Tower- The Wheel- Youth and Age- Two Songs from a Play- The Hero, The Girl and the Fool- The Mermaid (section from "A Man Young and Old")- 'Oedipus at Colonus'- All Souls Night
Trying to catch up with some Irish authors before a big vacation....I have read quotes by W.B. Yeats but never read any of his poetry collections.
This one is supposed to be just like when it was released in 1928 but with some notes included.
I am glad those notes were included.
I preferred the shorter poems, especially "The Hero, the Girl and the Fool." The longer one favored, once I got into it a bit, "The Gift of Harun Al-Rashid." I have a harder time with rhyming verse and then where the breaks are influence how I read them, so I have to let them sink a bit or re-read them several times until I can get the right flow.
I can now say I have read some W.B. Yeats poetry.
This is the second Yeats collection I've read lately, and I think overall I like it better than Michael Robartes and the Dancer. That had one stunning poem ("The Second Coming"), and while The Tower doesn't have anything that matches that, the standard as a whole is higher, in my opinion - I certainly enjoyed reading it more. The sequence of poems titled "A Man Young and Old" was excellent, but my favourite piece here was "Leda and the Swan".
This is peak Yeats.If you want to get started with Yeats and don't feel like jumping on with a "complete", "collected" or "selected" edition, this is a short little collection of some of his best work.
Didn't really resonate, but it is mostly very well-written.
Poetry! This collection contains not only The Tower which is weird and spectacular but also Leda and the Swan, which is basically the most aestheticized poem you will ever read about mythologized sexual assault (thanks, Zeus). How many times can Yeats use the word "thighs" in one poem? The world may never know.
Some of the poems are so easy to like and paint beautiful, rich images, like 'Sailing to Byzantium', but then there are other poems which forced me to read quite a lot of secondary literature and ask other people in order to decode their meaning. Usually, only to discover that this one, too is about the Irish Easter Rising and Maud Gonne. It was when he – or rather the Lyrical I – described creepily watching school girls and desiring them that Yeats lost me completely.
"So like a bit of stone I lie / Under a broken tree." When I came across these lines I couldn't help but wonder whether this was a reference to Fascism by way of John Heartsfield's "O Tannenbaum..." image of a tree twisted into the shape of a swastika; or whether he thought it up independently.
This is just to skim (like a stone) across this text and suggest the possible significance of the tree as well as part of the uroboric cluster.
This also has significance in that Yeats has been associated with Vorticism.
Their meanings are slippery and unclear, meandering from one theme to another at will, but always tied together by Yeat's song-like rhymes, at once irregular, surprising, and satisfyingly, crunchily concrete.
Each missed rhyme is returned, a constant ebb and flow - this is a squirming, beautiful collection, difficult to pin down and easy to enjoy.For the novice, the constant classical and Greecian references can be a bit tedious, but even to the uninitiated they give poems like Sailing to Byzantium a sense of sweeping timelessness.
They are dense, difficult poems with snatches of clear beauty.
I have been wanting to read Yeats for a long time and found this book at the Library.
In many ways, poetry is supposed to make us think about what our personal reactions and perceptions about the words we read are and Yeats does this in good form.
My favorite poem in the book is "A Man Young and Old", especially the first two portions of it.An excellent book and probably a good introduction to Yeats, although it was written in his later years, so I am thinking I am going to enjoy his older work more.
this book was very good.willaim butler yeats has an established, strong poetic style, thats very uni
However, I think this book's highlights, Sailing To Byzantium and The Second Coming, are the only reasons for picking it up.
These reviews are mostly comprised of my opinions, and I have learned that opinions are fine, but the discerning reader will gravitate to what impresses itself upon him, not what someone else has said.
And, like the Xena book, there was a space on the alphabetical list where Y should be.
(Of course, the Xena book occupied the X space, not the Y.) (You, the discerning reader, already knew that, but this is the absurd train heading for the rational terminus.) (Blah, blah, blah)
The face on this book is the first reason to read this collection of poems. The second and third and fourth and five...are the poems inside. My personal favorites include "Sailing to Byzantium," "Among School Children" (with the famous line, "O body swayed to music, O brightening glance/How can we know the dancer from the dance?" and "From 'Oedipus at Colonus.'"I admire Yeats' ability to juxtapose, to make verbal leaps in a flash. I admire his range of classic allusions. I admire his wisdom.
Yeats was a charismatic figure in the world of literature, so unique.
He doesn't repeat once more.So fascinating.
He was creative to the last moment of his life, to his death.
No poet is like that.
The essence he absorbed from the soil & the land of Ireland.Ireland comes so fascinating to me...
It's a hard job translating Yeats as his poetry is so complicated.
In each line the words are so mingled in a way you can't find the right equivalent for it , anyway I'm trying ...
To read some of the poems in (Persian) (Farsi) go to: http://www.rosajamali.com/article.asp...
At times it feels as if Yeats is whining about being old, but whining in the most beautiful way. The stuff about the Irish Civil War was less interesting, but nonetheless this is pretty good. IMO, "The Tower" was the best one in here; my favorite of his poems, "The Second Coming", isn't in this one.
Another book of Yeats poems--I actually swapped my reviews of The Tower and The Green Helmet and Other Tails. Again, some poems are really good, others I have no idea what is going on. I wish I had read it in a class with somebody knowledgeable to help me with these. I am interested in Irish poets from my visit to Dublin and Trinity college.
Rather enjoyed this collection. Written by an older Yeats, who was like "oh man, these damn kids and these crazy Irish, but also how do I understand time and history and cement my place in them?" Favorite was the title poem, and his strangely defensive poem to Lady Gregory.
