https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/483055.Theory_of_Games_and_Economic_Behavior
I finally got around to paging through the Theory of Games and Economic Behavior with mental props from a career in finance and two Ivy League degrees, from which come the faint background radiated memories of calculus, differential equations, decision science and statistics.And still, the work of Messrs.
I must say that the work's presentation rests, for the most part, in logic and rather common algebra and geometry; yet, could it have been expressed in a more indecipherable way?It would be interesting to read a translation of this volume into our vernacular, recasting the language and mathematics through the lens of simplicity.
One of the titanic founding works of Game Theory. Requires an extensive background of mathematics to understand, but it is very comprehensive, covering many types of games (including a version of poker). Some significant advances have been made in the field after this was published (Nash, etc.) but still something worth reading if you can handle it.
Modern Game Theory is difficult and this is the first book on the subject so you are already starting with quite a hill to climb.
The authors don't make it any easier by using convoluted descriptions and poorly structured examples to present their excellent ideas.
I gave this book a low review purely on the quality of the writing.
Game Theory is an important subject and we are indebted to von Neumann and Morgenstern for formulating the concepts but unfortunately they were not able to present their ideas in a clear way.
Check out http://www.goodreads.com/book/show/79...
for a much better introduction to Game Theory.
Extremely challenging to read if you are not rather far along in your math career.
I am a math major myself and found it quite confusing from the very beginning.
I did not thoroughly understand how they proved that utility was a linear transformation always.
This reads like an academic research paper (it kind of is) and so unless you are, as I suggested, far along in your math career, I do not recommend it.
I just finished Linear Algebra to give an idea of my current mathematical understanding.
It likely is an excellent book, but I would not know and the majority will not either.
i love this book, is my favorite
More than a book. Simply, this theory improves logical thinking and analyses abilities which changed the modern world history/science/industry since WW2
An absolute must
A complex and predicative book detailing game theory and economical activity/progression.
One of the GREAT books, world changing!
