https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/14403.The_Story_of_Ruby_Bridges
As a young 6 year old girl, growing up in the South during the days of the Civil Rights movement, Ruby was selected by the courts and ordered to attend the all white school of Franz Elementary School.
The illustrations add a special charm and perspective for both adults and children.
I remember the news clips of this, and of the other young black children ordered to attend white schools.
So, I will just say that I agree with Julie – the world does need this book right now.
This was a great story that was extremely knowledgeable about Ruby Bridges' life. It is an important read when talking about Civil Rights, because it explains it in easier terms.
I read this story to my daughter, today. I had to choke back tears.
I pray for my enemies, that God would forgive them."On November 1960, in New Orleans Ruby Bridges was the first African American student to attend William Frantz Elementary School.
Received by a crowd of a white mob, Ruby marched into the school.
Ruby Bridges was volunteered by her parents and the NAACP to be the first to integrate the elementary school.
Miss Henry was the only teacher that did not refuse to teach Ruby and just like her student, she showed up everyday.
For most of the year, Miss Henry taught Ruby exclusively as the rest of the students were pulled out of the class.
We heard from him how he'd met and provided therapy to Bridges, and came to know her and interviewed her for the book (that had just come out!) Bridges did become an activist and philanthropist for the causes of Civil Rights through the Ruby Bridges Foundation at http://rubybridgesasingh.weebly.com/r....Robert Cole is such an interdisciplinary thinker and has also (like me!) has taught across at least five different departments, so no wonder I love him!
Wow, I felt like I was reading a Patricia Polacco. . . couldn't even finish the ending for a bit, I was crying so hard. Luckily, my 8-year-old wasn't impatient to continue; she was crying right along with me.I've got a 6-year-old who is also named Ruby. . . and this book and a few others have reminded me that, for some reason, girls named Ruby are often very brave and very stong. Tough little gems.The world needs this book right now. I wish I could hand out copies.
As a young 6 year old girl, Ruby was one of four blacks selected by the courts and ordered to attend an all white school in New Orleans in 1960. Under the protection of the U.S. Marshals, because the local and state police refused help, Ruby walks into the empty school, past hordes of angry people lining the sidewalks, jeering, shouting insults and worse. Her maturity in handling this situation was truly remarkable. The water color illustrations are charming, but I wanted a little more substance.
The Story of Ruby Bridges is a classic example of how courageous, non-violent people and acts helped end the civil rights movement.
The story begins by introducing Ruby, a young African-American girl growing up in the South during the Civil Rights movement.
The story and images work in harmony, as the reader travels through the civil rights movement.
It is through this perspective, that the reader can see how outrageous the laws were at this time to make a young person, so positive and innocent, be the trailblazer for change.
Main Characters: RubySettings: 1960, New OrleansP.O.V: First PersonSummary: The book is a short biography of Ruby Bridges in 1960 when her family moved from Mississippi to New Orleans.
The family dealt with discrimination and segregation considering they were Black in a primarily White town.
I would definitely use this book in a classroom that ranged from grades 1-4.
I would incorporate themes such as Black History, courage, honor, determination, perseverance, segregation, racism, and prejudice.
Students love this book because it has great big words and beautiful pictures that perfectly depict the story of Ruby Bridges.
This book is a great way to introduce children to race relations in this country. It provides a clear look at history and a brave girl their own age to inspire them. I realize it is unusual to review a picture book without commenting on the illustrations. I really liked the book but had mixed feelings about the illustrations. Perhaps because there is a famous photo of the real Ruby Bridges that is etched in my memory, these images didn't enchant me the way the story did although they are certainly serviceable. Here is a link to my review:http://perfectretort.blogspot.com/201...
Fantastic! I love Ruby's sass. What a great historical moment to share with children, most of whom will likely not believe that parents kept their kids out of school because of a six-year-old black girl.
Biography (Grades 3-5)This was the inspiring true story about young Ruby Bridges.
The most powerful scene happens near the end when Mrs. Henry looks out the window to see Ruby pause in the middle of the mob outside the school.
Ruby Bridges was truly a courageous little girl with a heart of gold.I particularly loved this story because it took a difficult event in our history and made it accessible to young children.
Ruby Bridges was a real little girl, not unlike them, and she made an incredible difference to better our nation.
The Story of Ruby Bridges by Robert Coles is a sad reminder of where our country was in 1960 but a great reminder of the people who's character and kindness brought us out of it.
This biography is the story of a very young African American girl named Ruby Bridges.
A judge ordered Ruby and 3 other girls to attend white elementary schools.
Large crowds of white people came to school for months to protest loudly.
The author emphasized the faith in God that her family had and taught to Ruby.
The Story of Ruby Bridges tells an extraordinary story of a brave young girl who was the first African American to attend first grade at an all white school during segregation.
With all the bad in the world, this book will encourage people to be mindful of the golden rule, treat others as you want to be treated.The Story of Ruby Bridges is a courageous biography that can be used throughout grades 3-5.
While learning about biographies, teachers could assign this book to a group of students to study Ruby Bridges.
Lastly, this book could be used while studying segregation to talk about how black students could not attend the same schools as whites.
Title: The Story of Ruby BridgesBibliography: Coles, R., & Ford, G.
The story of Ruby Bridges.
Annotation: Young Ruby Bridges is a first grader trying to attend school during segregation.
An angry mob waits outside to yell at her every morning but Ruby finds the courage to continue to go to school and even to pray for forgiveness for those who hate her.
It was a very touching book with a strong sense of courage on the part of Young Ruby.
The civil rights movement and the stories about the families that lived through this time is tough to read about.
I found myself getting very angry also while I read this book, and I really wanted to ''go inside the book'' and tell the crowd of people to stop behaving like they did.
The part that touched me the most was when I read Ruby's prayer.
I really saw that Ruby responded the mobb with love.
I have never actually read any books that were about the time when the civil rights movement was, and by reading this book, I got a whole new view on how it was before.
This book is about a young girl who is the first African American girl in an all white school. She is escorted by federal Marshals to protect her from the hatred of white parents and students. She is unwanted in the school by almost all of the parents and other students, and is clearly unwelcome. Despite all of this she rises above it, and this brave little girl continues showing up. This is the true story of Ruby Bridges, and how she overcame racism to get a good education. I loved this book, and would recommend to students grades 2+.
This story really brings the reality of what life was like during the desegregation of schools and how our faith in God should be like that of a child's. Ellie received this book during the summer library reading program in 2011. We read this again for CC3 wk#20 (brown vs. board of education). Jacob rates this book 4 stars.
A beautiful book which tells the true story of the incredible Ruby Bridges, who at age six, walked through an angry, hate filled crowd to attend school, and in the midst of the crowd's angry taunts, prayed for those who reviled her.
Totally made an emotional connection.
Definitely an important story to share.*Read for school senior year college in Children's Lit*
So You could forgive them, just like You did those folks a long time ago… when they said terrible things about you.” ~ Ruby BridgesRuby Bridges has become as influential in the Civil Rights movement as Rosa Parks has become.
I would most likely teach this book in companionship with other influential people who helped shape the Civil Rights Movement in America and/or the Civil War (Rosa Parks, MLK, Harriet Tubman, etc.).
Short story (children’s book) that takes you from her desire to go to school, the confrontation she meets in the middle, and her courage and determination that lead her to decide to stay in school.
Characteristics That Support the Genre: This true story of the brave 6-year-old Ruby Bridges describes her journey as being the first African-American student to go to an all white school.
She remained calm, relaxed, and hopeful during this time difficult time of racism and did not let others opinions scare her out of going to school and receiving an education.Mentor Writing Traits:Idea- Students learn about a time in history where black and white children were not allowed to go to school together.
It shows courage and bravery by the young Ruby Bridges who went through so much hardship just to receive a decent education in an all white school in the 1960’s.
My 6 y/o daughter had finished reading her book about Martin Luther King Jr. and was talking about the lady on the bus (Rosa Parks) and the litle black girl that went to an all white school (Ruby Bridges). I said Ruby Bridges I have a book about her she asked to read it, we did.
I love the movie
https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1...#
Ruby Bridges was the first black child to attend an all-white elementary school as a first grader. This was in the state of Louisiana and the experience influenced history.This could be used in a classroom with primary grade children when discussing diversity and how we're all equal. It can also be used in a theme about America's history and slavery. That is because the prejudice adults showed was based on the transition of black people as slaves into mainstream America.
I realized a few years ago that because we were only reading “classic” children’s books out loud to our kids, we were only reading books with white children and animals as main characters.
(It’s not to say there are NO classic children’s books with people of color as main characters, just that they are few and far between.
This book deserves mention because not only does it involve a woman of color, but it also demonstrates the powerful and courageous actions that these women have taken throughout history.
She prayed for the people who screamed at her.
Text-to-World Connection: How does the theme or content presented in the book connect to something happening in the world?This book always makes me reflect on the strength and capacity for love children have.
The fear of another culture and anger towards another based on someone’s skin color still occurs on a daily basis.
In the story, Ruby prays for the people in the crowd who were screaming at her in anger.
If more people saw the world through the eyes of a child, we would be in a much better place.
This was a heart wrenching book retelling a story of a young girl who bravely went to a white school during the time where segregation in the south was still very rampant.
One day her teacher noticed that Ruby stopped in front of the protestors and seemed to be talking.
Later the teacher asks her what she said and Ruby replied that she was not telling anything to the mob.
This story tugs at my heart because I can only imagine what this 6 year old might think of the angry mob directed at her.
