https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/12072362-the-pioneer-woman-cooks
In Ree's first cookbook, she covered many aspects of her golden rich white persons life in the little multi-million dollar ranch on the prairie.
This is the second cookbook from Ree Drummond, also popularly known as "The Pioneer Woman." If you're not familiar with Ree and her Pioneer Woman website [where have you been?!], she was a city girl living the fast paced life when on her way from L.A. to Chicago, made a pit stop in her hometown in Oklahoma where she met a cowboy, fell in love, had babies and now lives happily ever after on a cattle ranch in Oklahoma!
As for the recipes, The Pioneer Woman Cooks: Recipes From My Frontier focuses a lot more on the food (including many detailed step by step photos) and a bit less on Ree's family and life on the ranch compared to her first cookbook.
There are some excellent recipes and anecdotes in this book. A truly epic pie crust recipe, cornbread croutons and apple brown betty. Yum!! Can’t wait to try them.
Another recipe sounded interesting (Honey-Plum-Soy chicken) but called for a 20 ounce bottle of soy sauce in a recipe designed to serve 8 people.
However, the best parts of her book are 1) her step-by-step instructions and photos that would help even a novice pull together a meal, 2) her easy-to-find ingredients, and 3) her simple, easy-to-follow mostly "from scratch" recipes.
I can imagine myself using her recipes as a "jumping off point", and tinkering with the recipes and rewritting amounts of certain ingredients and sending the cookbook off with a child to college.
I've been following her blog for a few years, and feel as though I know her, her family and can relate to her life on the ranch-- as I was an equestrian for a few decades, and enjoyed the whole cow horse thing.
With that said, I realized that I had already made six of the recipes in this cookbook-- some of them as far back as three years ago.
If you read Ree's blog all the time, you might find yourself disappointed in this cookbook, because many of the recipes will look familiar to you.
As someone who loved Ree Drummond’s initial “Pioneer Woman” cookbook, filled with step-by-step recipes with accompanying pictures, I was interested in looking at her second cookbook, ‘the Pioneer Woman cooks: Food from my Frontier.” And I wasn’t disappointed.
The step-by-step picture technique of going through each recipes continues here.
Suffice to say, there’s a big variety of recipes included, and just like in the first book, the recipes are interspersed with photos from Ree’s picturesque life on the ranch.
I liked this better than the first cookbook because it's less folksy and personal - while there are still pics of her family and ranch, the focus is more on the food, and that's a plus for me.
I know that in her first book she qualified that (they're very active on the ranch so it's less of an issue for her and her family), but for the rest of us it's helpful - not just for weight management, but for managing blood pressure, etc.This is a great book, and you really need to buy it - taking it out of the library won't enable you to enjoy the amazing pics forever.
Ree Drummond creates recipe that I love to cook, and apparently, I like Midwest by way of the South trash eats. #noregrets
Although I certainly plan on making many of the recipes included in the book, I enjoyed reading about her life and family almost as much as the recipes themselves.
I think this is the reason for the huge success she has had both on her website and her Food Network show.This book is a must own, you will enjoy the recipes for years to come and laugh out loud as you read Ree's humorous take on becoming an "accidental country girl" and her life on the ranch with the man she loves and her darling children.
The way I "read" a cookbook is, if the recipe title sounds good, I pay attention.
If the picture looks good, I pay attention.
If the title or picture involves a food I don't care for, or doesn't sound appealing, I keep flipping.I read every single recipe in this cookbook.
And not, mind you, because I found every title/picture appealing.
Though to be fair, there are a LOT of good recipes in here.
No. I read every single one because this woman is funny as hell.
The recipes, of course, sound amazing.
And I plan on looking for more cookbooks by her.
Normally when I get a cookbook I page through it and find one or two recipes that look okay.
A THIRD GREAT RECIPE?" See how it went?
I only found ONE recipe in here that I won't try and won't eat.
EVERY OTHER RECIPE in this book was outstanding.
This book made we want to go to the grocery store right NOW and buy stuff to cook a huge supper tonight.
The recipes are easy and have step by step pictures.
There are Italian recipes, Mexican, American and some really pretty sandwiches too.
BUY THIS COOKBOOK!!!!
So it's a little hard to rate a cookbook but let me try.
Okay, first things first, I love the Pioneer Woman.
I've been following her website for a long time and I loved her other cookbooks.
I was most definitely not disappointed.Here are a couple key things I liked about this cookbook:- Basic ingredients (there's not really anything you're going to have trouble finding)- Clear pictures (step by step directions are key)- Yummy food (I wanted to make everything is this darn book)- Easy cooking directions (I love to cook but I'm not so good with the more complicated acts of yummy making; PW's directions are really simple to follow and are things that new and seasoned cooks can follow easily)I think this book will be a fantastic cookbook for those who already love the Pioneer Woman and those who have yet to discover her.
The Pioneer Woman Cooks; Food from my FrontierBy Ree DrummondThis is one of those cookbooks that one loves to look through!
Recipes from the simple to more complicated with pictures of step by step process; for those who are visually inclined like me.I’ve marked a few that I really want to try at home, one of them is Rigatoni and Meatballs on page 126, along with the Panfried Spinach on page 216 and Crash Hot Potatoes on page 217.
Her desserts look most yummy but I think I’ll stick with my own Peach Cobbler Surprise with this meal.I thoroughly enjoyed her humorous photos of her environment showing me that she does indeed take her cooking seriously, but not herself.
I find that an endearing trait.
I have never reviewed a cook book before, so please bear with me.
I read this whole book, and I found it funny.
I really like Ree’s sense of humor.
I do apologies to whoever gets my book next.
The pictures are that lovely (although there could have been more Walter for my taste.) Did I make any of the recipes?
I am not going to make that.
I’m probably not going to cook anything in this book, because she is from Oklahoma and a football loving family and my taste are strictly Ohio with a heaping side of baseball.
I was so excited when I heard this book was being made.
I loved the first cookbook and knew that the second would only be better, and I was right.
There's more recipes this time and some less filler though I enjoyed all of the extras in the first.
As always there are step by step photo instructions which is always such a plus if you want to make sure you're doing something right.
I was definitely like a kid at Christmas when the book arrived and I can't wait to add it into my stack of cookbooks I use for menu planning!
This book is overflowing with goodness.
The recipes sound devine.
That is saying quite a bit from this 90% vegetarian cook.
Most of the recipes include well, meat.
I still want to cook!
I want to figure out how they will work for me and my family.
Ree's spirit just spills out of the pages.
She has a beautiful spirit and is graciously sharing it with all of us.
I feel like she wrote the book just for me and gave it to me as a gift.
It feels that special.
You will find yourself smiling for no aparent reason as you turn the pages.
pure goodness.
Ree Drummond's second cookbook is far better than her first in my opinion.
I prefer the layout in "Food from My Frontier," and feel the photography and color is used better.
What I love about her books is the fact she shows each step with pictures so you know whether or not you're on track, which is a plus for beginners.
I have tried a handful of recipes so far, and each has been delicious.
What's nice is you can find many of the recipes on her blog.
This is one I would like to own someday, but I am fine with checking it out from the library for now.
I love this cookbook. While I could deal without the cheeky country girl humor (sorry, just not my thing), the recipes are delicious and easy to follow for a beginning cook.
Does reading a copy at my grandmother's house count? XD Because that's what I did, praying that one day I will have the time to make at least some of the recipes inside.
Same format as her other cookbooks, many pictures (there isn't one page without at least one pic) and the big plus of having a picture for every step in the recipe (a BIG plus!) While still not exceptional, the recipes as a whole are better overall than in her first book. However, her Pioneer Woman shtick just wears thin.
Honestly, you feel like you are in Ree's kitchen cooking or baking alongside of her.
And, did I say that I have never liked Sloppy Joes before trying this recipe?
It is delicious and both recipes are keepers.Who will enjoy this book?
2) Cookbook collectors, and I have to say that as of today there are already two vendors on Amazon that have this book as 'Collectible- Like New'.
I think it shows you just how confident Ree is to be able to share her love of cooking online AND know that there are those of us who will want to have a cookbook, too.
Note: I am reviewing the iBooks version of this cookbook.If you want simple recipes with easy to find ingredients in an easy to follow format, than this cookbook is sure to get you rattling those pots and pans!The design of Ree's cookbook is country flower perfect.
The iBooks version flows nicely with the swiping working well for both pages and instructions.
I loved the added bonus of video on a few recipes.
I like the swipes and pictures for each instruction.
After you've made the recipe the first time, you don't really need to swipe through them one by one.
I love that each recipe includes variation ideas.
Ree Drummond's The Pioneer Woman Cooks: Food from My Frontier was not a book that had originally been on my "To Read" list, but I picked it up from the library while I was waiting for my mother to pick out her books.
I find it's interesting, now that I reflect back on what happened at the library, the librarian's only comment about the cookbook was that she liked the photographs.
Since then, I've been very hit-or-miss with baking success, so I really appreciate PW's step-by-step instructions of bakery recipes.
Yes, I could have found the same amount of instruction in many other cookbooks, but I like PW's encouraging, down-home style of writing.
I also like that PW has updated the baking and cooking techniques to use a standing mixer, something that I own but seldom use, and which my mom never owned.
(If only PW would buy a food processor...)A couple of warnings about PW's books.
Readers might want to preview the book(s) or borrow it from the library before buying it for themselves.
It's actually a pretty neat cookbook.
I love cookbooks that have actual pictures of the dishes and this one takes it a bit further by showing the steps to get the finished product.
I can't say there are a bunch of recipes I want to try, but there a few that look interesting.
I really like how the recipes have serving sizes for 6 or more.
There are pictures scattered throughout the book of Ree's frontier life and family which may be strange for a cookbook, but it's fun.
Overall, a very nice looking book that I wouldn't mind adding to my cookbook shelf.
Non-Fiction; Cooking5 starsA wonderful book full of delicious recipes and step-by-step directions.
If you follow the popular Pioneer Woman's blog (www.thepioneerwoman.com) then you already know that Ree Drummond is a fun, witty Mom who loves to make yummy food for her family.
You will not find a calorie count or fat gram measurement ANYWHERE in these pages.I love that the recipes include photos of each step of the process and suggestions at the end of the recipe for substitutions or ideas on how to 'make it your own.' I read this book cover to cover and now want to make about 98% of these yummy dishes.
Of course, the recipes are good - which is the point of any cookbook.
I almost returned it, with so many features unusable, but since she had included a recipe for Osso Bucco- I had to keep it.
There are alot of repeats from the website - more than I think is reasonable for the price but that was true of her first cookbook as well, so it is not that surprising.
I hate to harp on it, but I do think it's ridiculous that I can't even load the Kindle version on my PC and use the features.
I love her writing style.
I love the recipes.
Her pictures are breathtaking.
I really loved everything about this book.
The recipes are easy and delicious, and my husband loves most of them and my kids will eat them!
That's a miracle alone, but on top of all of that, I ENJOY reading these recipes and seeing her step by step pictures.
More recipes, more family stories, more pictures and more of Charlie the Ranch Dog too!
If you love her books, check out her blog, it's just as funny and just as true and, oh yeah!
she throws in recipes too.
What is very cool about Ree Drummond's cookbooks is her use of photography.
She photographs her recipes step by step and if really gives you a sense of the recipe that other cookbooks lack.
Her photos are fun and reflect her style and daily life which is very inspiring.
She adds funny sides to her recipes and photos that make it fun to read.
It is not only a great cookbook but a fun read.
If Martha Stewart's recipes give you a headache and make you break out in a sweat than this is the cookbook for you!
Food from My Frontier is the second cookbook by Ree Drummond.
Her first book, Recipes from an Accidental Country Girl, featured "hearty family recipes interspersed with photos and stories." Ree takes a new turn with her latest cookbook.
Along with all the delicious recipes, Ree shares step by step photos and family photos from around the ranch.I haven't tried any recipes yet (I picked up the book yesterday) but I cannot wait!
I enjoyed her previous books (and blog) and created several recipes from both.
I look forward to exploring Food From My Frontier in my own kitchen.
