https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/21418013-lock-in
3.5-4 stars.When I first started reading this book I was so confused I thought I was going to give up.
I really think that part needs added to this book, it's very hard to figure out what's going on without it.Once I read that I was sucked into this book.A flu type virus has been transmitted globally.
Haden's are the virus victims who are "locked-in" their bodies.
You have humans that are able to also host the Haden's into their bodies called Integrators.This book is very innovative and I thought I hated Sci-fi.
I should give this book a five because I found his post.
I've read pretty much everything John Scalzi has written at this point, so when I pick up one of his books, I don't expect anything in particular.
Honestly, I'd hesitate to classify this book as one particular thing, which means it's sufficiently complex to be a story in its own right, and not just some generic genre knock-off.
In a change of pace for me, I didn't read the texty print version of this book.
Instead I listened to the Audiobook narrated by Amber Benson.
P.S. Scalzi did something interesting with the audio of this book, and had *two* versions recorded.
One read by Amber Benson.
The sleeper, known as a Haden, after the stricken First Lady of the United States, can also use an android called a personal transport, popularly known as a threep, after Star Wars’ C3-P0.Scalzi uses this foundation to describe a murder mystery amidst the changed landscape.
Told from the perspective of an FBI agent (who is also a Haden and who uses a threep to get around) who investigates some strange deaths.The author also describes a virtual world called the Agora where Hadens can gather and mingle.
So many of the outward robot people and the fact that they're both police (or private eye) tales might make it seem so, but in truth, the two are quite different in particulars.
This audiobook came with a great novella that outlined, in epistolary form, the outbreak and the technological and political realities that created the world of Lock In. I personally thought that it might be better than the actual novel.
:) It was fascinating to see the transformation of the world one sequence at a time.
If you're not up to reading articles about it, try The Diving Bell and the Butterfly: A Memoir of Life in Death - it gives you a good idea of what it's like.-----John Scalzi takes the idea of locked-in syndrome and imagines a world few decades in the future where, due to a pretty indiscriminate pandemic virus, it strikes a significant proportion of the population, forcing people to (a) care and (b) pump insane amounts of funds and technology into the research (hard not to, given that even the a First Lady succumbs to the disease, and the toddler of a media darling cum real estate tycoon, and so there's no shortage of cash flowing into the search for a solution).
4.5* Although Lock in was confusing to begin with, the story soon captures your attention. Since earth’s Great Flu caused paralysis of the nervous system to more than 2.75 billion humans worldwide, robots called Tweeps are being used by individuals, along with Integrators who can share their bodies. Chris Shane, a Tweep, has recently been hired as an FBI agent and assigned a partner, Integrator FBI veteran agent Leslie Vann. The two agents are given a task to investigate a murder at a nearby ho
4.5* Although Lock in was confusing to begin with, the story soon captures your attention.
Chris Shane, a Tweep, has recently been hired as an FBI agent and assigned a partner, Integrator FBI veteran agent Leslie Vann.
The two agents are given a task to investigate a murder at a nearby hotel and to question the suspect, a Tweep, who appears to be confused and unable to explain what exactly happened.
As Chris and Leslie begin to uncover details about the murdered victim, they realize this is no ordinary homicide.
He is truly a classic version of the “speculative” science fiction author in that he hypothesizes where the human race may go to next while still concerning himself with how we operate as individuals and as a society right now.Perhaps I am just a typical liberal robot of the old model, but I find a touching connection between his progressive blog posts and his ongoing interest in illustrating how a person is so much more than what their body does or looks like or comes from.As far as the novel itself goes, it is a futuristic mystery.
In both cases I know people who advocate for research, treatment and cure, and others who see themselves as accepting and celebrating their differences.
In the case of ASD, there are those whose quality of life, or whose loved one's quality of life is affected so significantly by ASD, that they want nothing more than to find effective treatment, or a cure.
So I loved the bit of social commentary between Cassandra Bell's group and the group racing to find a cure.
I automatically thought of Chris as being male, but even Scalzi himself admits he doesn't know Chris's gender.
Since Wil Wheaton is the narrator for the book I just assumed that Chris was male for most of the book until I realized that maybe wasn’t the case at all.I did get pretty caught up on how society changed because of all the people who were locked in and how they became like their own class/race of people.
Look, we all know that eventually robots are going to take over the world and kill all humans.
They'll figure out a way)I have to say that the world in this book is super fun and interesting.
If it wasn't the banter, it was the situation, such as when he has to use a "loaner" robot in another state and its legs don't work.
I'm thinking about rental cars, bowling shoes, and roller skates.I am hoping there are more books set in this world, with these two FBI agents.
4 to 4.5 starsBonus points for creativity. It was an unexpectedly unique sci-fi/techno mystery with nice twists of humor. I am glad that I didn't know much about this going in because it was fun to get into this bizarre new world (is it okay to say it's fun to get into a plague filled world?)I will say that this is a very brainy story. A lot of concentration and thought must be given in order to keep up. I am still not entirely sure of everything that happened!
If this doesn't wake your brain up, nothing will.The story is at some time in the future in the good old USA, and some years after a plague overtook the world and killed a significant amount of the population.
The main character is a new FBI agent, first day on the job, is one of those who contracted Haden's Syndrome as a child and after surviving, he was lucky to be born in a very rich family and acquired always the best androids to use.
I love this author 💓Now I wish you all Happy Reading and may you always find what you need in the pages of a Good book!!!
Lock In definitely falls into the first category.First off Scalzi, in my opinion, does a very good job introducing new technologies into his near future society.
Obviously not enough to seriously harm the entertainment value of the book, but flaws that did diminish the ending a bit.All in all an extremely good sci-fi book, with snappy dialogue, a great story, and some nifty insights into society and technology.Some random thoughts:-Lots of the book takes place in DC (a city I live just south of).
No group is monolithic (echoing the analogy to modern deaf culture) and Scalzi does a great job presenting the locked in community as having a wide range of opinion.-As I stated above, Scalzi does a masterful job extrapolating the consequences of technology changes.
If Hadens' bodies are given basic care, they can "live" in a virtual space called the Agora, and can also operate in the real world via a threep (a robotic body, reminiscent of C-3PO) or, if they can afford it, by occasionally using the body of a licensed Integrator (a patient who recovered, but whose brain was changed by the disease, and then further modified by neural nets).
At one point, a police officer mentions how another is a stereotypical messed up cop, but that doesn't redeem it, imo.Clunky Exposition - ThroughoutThe book opens with three pages of a Wikipedia-type article about the incidence of and "treatments" for Haden's Syndrome.
I can't remember the last time I read a sci-fi novel.
So America builds an entire world for " locked in" patients called The Agora, a virtual environment for people to live and socialise in.
There are also "threeps", essentially robots which patients can control fully with their brains, so they can live and move among the rest of the population.
There are also Integrators, who are people who can let " locked in" patients use their bodies for a period of time.The main character is Chris Shane, who has joined the FBI.
He's a "lock in" and uses a threep in the real world.
From London City Airport... waiting for my flight with a fresh cappucino...finished this one, great book!!How shall I describe it... a crime novel in apocalyptic sort of time. Quite unusual, great read. Recommended & looking forward to the followup, I believe to be published in 2018.
"Locked In" is the first Science Fiction book I've read all year, (I've read very little science fiction in an entire lifetime).
But.., I liked it!!!
It felt like a contemporaryfiction crime thriller.
a full blown disease causes LOCK IN.
Once this disease has spread and taking over a large critical mass of people...
it's clear the culture of the world is changing.
Two awesome - standout characters - making this novel very entertaining are: FBI agent Chris Shane ( new rookie), and Leslie Vann, (veteran agent).
This world was fascinating, frightening, and somewhat realistic!
This is what I think it is about books like these: Sci-Fi authors are cool because they imagine things yet to exist, crazy stuff that could possibly happen, or just crazy stuff that probably won't.
All fiction stretches the imagination in some way, but I guess books like these stretch that “imagination of the possible” and I like how Scalzi (my first Scalzi by the way) gets heady with ideas without sacrificing the story.
I thought it would be about a pandemic, but it's more about what might happen after a pandemic (one with very specific cause and effect, so kudos to the author for originating those ideas as well).
It’s rookie FBI Agent Chris Shane’s first couple of days on the job and already he’s thrust into a what looks to be a messy could-be-murder-could-be-suicide case involving an Integrator, who are rare individuals that survived the flu and the meningitis stage and didn’t get locked in, only to develop a brain structure which would allow Hadens to link up their minds to use their bodies as if they were their own or a Threeps’.As you can see, the concepts in this novel are quite intricate and complex, and I’m actually really impressed Scalzi was able to get all the relevant information across without having to commit the cardinal sin of shameless, wholesale info-dumping all over these pages.
My first book by Scalzi and it was amazing! Such great ideas and the world is really engaging, fascinating and totally relateable. I am going to read more from him. And I will grab the upcoming sequel the first moment I can.
The big “what-if” here concerns advances in brain-machine interfaces that allow someone who is largely paralyzed to live in the real world by controlling a robot.
The story balances an exploration of the social and ethical aspects of life in this society and a murder mystery involving another class of people affected by the plague, the “Integrators”.
That a mind can then begin to thrive better with amplified connections to a virtual world of people is fascinating to consider.
I love science fiction traditions for exploring such themes as science is beginning to make some of their elements a reality.
Whereas a different author could craft a good image of a character in a reader's mind in 10 or 20 pages - it takes Scalzi 90 or even 100.
This isn't BAD per se - but it's definitely a unique style and one that takes some getting used to.The characters are eventually crafted - by the end of the novel you know them better.
But notice I said, "by the end of the novel." This can be frustrating for some readers.Scalzi did the same thing - to a slightly lesser extent - in Redshirts.
4.5 stars!Count me in as new fan of John Scalzi!After listening to Scalzi's Redshirts, (also narrated by Will Wheaton), I knew I would be reading and/or listening to more of his books in the future.
I wasn't all-out crazy about it, due to what I felt was the excessive use of "he saids" and "she saids" in the narrative, but I recognized interesting world-building and great story-telling skills and wanted to try more of Scalzi's work.
Add to all this a murder mystery, even more detail on those locked-in, and you have a fabulously entertaining story which Will Wheaton did a great job in narrating.
This book wasn't horrible, but I had very little motivation to return to it every time I put it down. Sci-fi isn't my favorite genre to begin with, so I was actually surprised that I enjoyed this world, yet once the whole FBI mystery aspect of this novel was thrown in as well, it lost my interest again. This book took me too long to read, so important characters introduced in the beginning of the book were meaningless to me when I reached the solution. This just resonated very "meh" with me.
A big surprise to me, but I loved this book and I am far from a lover of Science fiction. Plus I learned many new words like threeps and integrators. The thought of a flu that would affect the world as Hadens does in this novel is absolutely frightening. But I suppose it has before, the Spanish flu, but that killed people, Haden does much worse.A murder mystery, some great characters and a fast moving pace kept me reading with great curiosity.
2.5 starsMeh. Barely science fiction. Mostly police procedural. Too much dialogue, and lacking in Scalzi's usual wit and humor. Infodumps before the novel started, over dinner and at other times (Show, don't tell!). I expected more/better from Scalzi. Glad I borrowed it from the library and didn't buy it.
And how regardless of how far the scientific advancement may be somethings in human nature never change.
But this makes the whole thing seem dry and lumbering - when it most certainly is not.So what is it - well its a well crafted story which use science fiction, crime story and medical drama and turn it in to a fast paced mystery which is so enthralling all the trappings (or if you prefer distractions) melt away and you get drawn in to the race to the punchline.

I don’t think my review will be terribly coherent, as I’m totally gobsmacked by the issues this book brought up.It took me quite a while to get into the story, as I simply couldn’t fathom what was going on.
But once I got to a certain point and had a ker-ching-lightbulb moment, I was fascinated.More than 2.75 billion people have been infected with Haden’s disease, a virus which effectively “locks in” a person’s body, meaning they have no control of it, while (to all intents and purposes), the mind remains intact.
I was still at the incredulous point of the book when I read this line.
It does require a leap of faith to accept the new world, but I was up for that too and fully willing to jump in neck deep and determined to go with the flow.A disease that starts off with flu-like symptoms has swept the world and millions of people have been infected.
Option two is to effectively inhabit the body of a willing survivor of the disease for periods – i.e. one that hasn't been locked-in – and in this way experience life through a borrowed body.
