https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1449967.Live_Alone_and_Like_It
Creo que la mejor forma de acercarse a este libro es primero y ante todo teniendo en cuenta la época en la que se escribió: los años 30.
Es un manual de consejos bastante divertido, irónico y con un mensaje muy positivo sobre lo que implica para una mujer el hecho de vivir sola.La estructura ha sido lo que más me ha fallado, me ha resultado demasiado esquemática, los capítulos demasiado temáticos.
Me habría gustado ver todos los temas que trata integrados y mezclados entre sí, creo que habría hecho el ritmo de lectura más ameno.
This book is the platonic ideal of 1930's society lady sass. I learned that there are four types of pajamas, and two of these are suitable for entertaining. That alone garners it five stars.
This book was adorable. Pertinent, no nonsense advice to the single lady, as appropriate--for the most part--today as in 1936. The bits about your lady's maid were the only evidence of dating. On the whole, uplifting but also sensible advice for living alone--and exactly what this single girl needed to hear.
Of course, this book does a lot to encourage single women to enjoy their lives and not feel sorry for themselves.Interestingly, republished copies of this book drop that phrase from the title and simply mention the "single woman."Even though some parts of this book are heavily dated and others funny in an unintended way, I did enjoy the straight talk about how to not be pitiful, how to take control of your own social life and home atmosphere, and how to be a pleasant sort of person.The funny bits were the parts where I learned that there are FOUR types of pajamas, and TWO of them are suitable for entertaining guests, or the parts that assume that you have access to a maid at least some of the time.
Do każdej szklanki dodaj pałeczkę do koktajli, i niech goście się dobrze bawią." - swoją popularnosć old-fashioned zawdzięczał między innymi temu, że był drinkiem do spokojnego popijania nawet przez cały wieczór, więc mimo wielości składników był opcją dosyć ekonomiczną dla gospodarzy."Oczywiście cywilizowanym miejscem, w którym kobieta winna zjeść śniadanie, jest łóżko (...) Trik polega na tym, żeby wypracować sobie system, dzięki któremu stanie przed tobą, na kolorowej tacy, szklanka – duża i ładna, nie jakaś tam zwyczajna – pełna schłodzonego soku pomarańczowego, kubek dobrej parującej kawy i gorąca grzanka przyrządzona tak jak lubisz, z odrobiną marmolady albo miodu."
It's my new bible.
Naprosto geniální a s osvěžujícím nadhledem psaná knížka, u které se člověk zasměje, ale i zamyslí. Lehké, svěží, čtivé, elegantní jednohubka, doporučuju:-)
This is a book about having style, about having confidence, about living your life to the full!It’s a period piece, but so much of what it says still holds good, and the only thing that feels out of date is the assumption that you will have a maid.The voice still speaks clearly, and though I know that one was a real Vogue editor and the other was fictional, I couldn’t help wondering if the author of this book and the Provincial Lady had ever met.Well, they were contemporaries, and I’m sure each would have been wonderfully entertained by the other!
Generally speaking I of course get a lot of fun out of those old-fashioned etiquette rules and advice for women (thanks Retronaut for the many laughs), but reading an actual book on those topics wouldn't have crossed my mind.
However, Hillis's advice are mostly quite general, so a modern woman can still get at least something out of them without having to be a career woman in 1930s New York.I smiled, when I noticed two things that apply to my life quite well: the apartment doesn't have to be messy, even though outsiders aren't there to see it everyday; you can eat well even if you're alone and feel like eating convenience foods in the kitchen straight from the boxes.
sounds like a self-help book, and in a way, I suppose it is.
. .Marjorie is all about figuring out ways to make yourself happy.
And unlike some "being single" books that have been forced into my hands by well meaning friends, this one doesn't talk about being single like it's a bad thing.
She has wit and humor and charm, and I just love Marjorie.
It's one of those books that I want to share with everyone, but there's no way in h*?* I'm going to let my copy out of my house.
Ha sido una lectura muy agradable, divertida e inspiradora.Es un libro que en muchas ocasiones nos resalta que, ante todo, debemos cuidarnos para nosotras mismas y no hay excusas que valgan.Ah, por último, hay que tener en cuenta en qué época se escribió este libro antes de criticarlo, que me veo venir los comentarios xD
On the other hand, it implies time and again that any woman living alone is only waiting for something better (a man) to come along.The most interesting part of this manual is its historical perspective on single women.
However, this advice seems helpful to most human being, whether female or male, single or married, living alone or with other people.Practical and specific guidance for women wanting to learn how to be content living alone would have been more useful.
I can only suggest this book to people who want to have a good laugh and then contemplate how far women who live by themselves have come.
But I am not an "extra woman" living alone on $100 a month (yes, this book does include actual sample budgets from the year 1936!), so I bought it.It is really an historical document, and made me think things were actually pretty far along in 1936 (at least in New York, although the author implies that there are single women in mid-sized cities across the country).
The chapter on "Will You or Won't You?" the most unuseful, especially its advice that whichever you choose, you shouldn't tell anyone.A word of warning: this book would make an amusing gift for the girl who just got out of a bad relationship, but I wouldn't recommend it for your long-single friend.(P.S. The last two pages of my copy were uncut!)

Returned the book to the library, unfinished :DThis book was so old fashion, and from the 60 pages I read, I felt it was full of repetitions.I guess the main idea was that people won't feel sorry/bad for you if you're living alone, and YOU are the one who has to go the extra mile to mingle with people so you wouldn't get bored. So obvious, I think!
This is funny and frank, self pity be banished. If you take it for what it is and leave aside the dated materialistic specifics, it's a good little tome on not apologizing for who you are and being self sufficient. What's really remarkable is how independent this "extra woman's" mindset is and how broad it's appeal was 6 years before Rosie the River. Makes me want to revisit some feminist history.
Esperaba un texto encaminado a quererse a una misma y saber disfrutar de vivir sola pero ha sido más una guía sobre cómo gustar a los demás. Evidentemente era otra época (años 30) y hay que tenerlo en cuenta. Hay que reconocer que demasiado buen mensaje es para los años en los que fue escrito y supone un comienzo, que no es poco. Próximamente reseña en https://rincondemarlau.blogspot.com
El placer de vivir sola es un manifiesto o una guía para solteras que han elegido una vida sin pareja, arrojando consejos muy positivos y que realza el autoestima. Un libro inteligente y chic que gustará especialmente a las mujeres, independientemente de si tienen pareja o están pensando en vivir solasReseña: https://laestanteriadecho.blogspot.co...
Charming, funny, and still full of wisdom for living the best single life.
This book, originally published in 1936, is apparently the great-grandmother of all advice books telling single women how to live right lest anyone think they're totally pathetic for being all alone in cold, cruel world.
From the reputation this book has I thought the tone in this book was going to more like "forget them haters, living alone is awesome," but it's actually pretty much like most advice books for single women: do lots of extracurricular stuff to keep busy and if you do it right you'll probably meet a guy and end your woeful spinster days.
This was such a cute little book, and even though a lot of the advice seemed outdated, it was a lot of fun to imagine the lives these ladies must have been living back in the 1930s!Would I read it again?
Ladies living alone or looking for some no-nonsense advice about their single status!Any other thoughts?
I thought the title was cute, and the summary looked like fun.
Overall this was a clever little book that made me want to live the (seemingly) luxurious life of a single lady in the city in the 1930s (though I'll take that lifestyle without the economic depression, thanks)!
There is a chapter where the author delicately broaches the topic of sex, and it is wonderful to find a book that doesn't just assume single women will be sleeping with boyfriends when they come along, but rather asks them to consider their options and consequences of that decision.
This point of view has been experienced by every individual the world over at one time or another, except by those who will experience it next year".That can certainly be applied to any situation causing one to feel self-pity!On self-respect:"Never, never, never let yourself feel that anybody ought to do anything for you; once you become a duty, you also become a nuisance.
I have an extremely high regard for this book because it is very likely indeed to make any reader snap out of a phase or circuit of feeling sorry for oneself and into actually doing and thinking and having an interesting time.
I spend so much of my life waiting around, and I know that is bullshit.
This book helps me whack sense and activity back into myself so I don't sit around and moan, and that is very helpful.I've probably read this three or four times and will read it many times again in the future.
A book worth actually owning.
This is a splendid little book.
The specific practical advice about how many bedjackets a woman ought to own and how to throw a cocktail party featuring aquavit and cheese straws is, perhaps, a little out of date.
But the overarching message about the pleasures of independence and the perils of self-pity is as true today as it was 80 years ago.
This is the kind of book that you'd love to be able to give as a gift to that special single lady in your life (especially someone newly-single) but I suspect that those of us who would benefit most from it would be most likely to be offended by it.
from here on out my life manifesto.
Very fun read. Obviously, since it's from 1936, not all of it should be taken seriously by today's readers.
Love this book; it's entertaining and informative. Written by Vogue Editor, Majorie Hillis, in the 1930s there's many truisms that are still relevant today.
VERY of its time, but also quite fun.
Be interesting - pursue hobbies, improve yourself; create a stylish little home; go out and socialize, but relish your time at home too ( a stylish apartment, breakfast in bed, "from dusk until dawn you can do exactly as you please.")While the accepted morals of the 30s break through (women are discouraged from taking cocktails in a bar, alone, or from plunging unthinkingly into an affair), I would say the general message has a lot to offer the 21st century lady.Hillis illustrates her guide with case studies of women who have a more - or less - successful life, based on their choices.I was particularly impressed by Miss P, whose finances meant she was struggling to find a way to entertain an old school friend.
What should a woman do if she finds herself living alone?
Hillis, a former editor for Vogue magazine and an independent, professional woman in an age when that was not the norm, shares her advice in a cheeky, sometimes snarky tone that made me laugh and sometimes take notes.
She offers a section on liquor, for example, in which she gives the recipes for several popular cocktails.
She gives advice on how to manage one’s money and answers sticky etiquette questions such as whether a single woman may have an affair.
