https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/27000.Lost_in_a_Good_Book
Book Review  Jasper Fforde had a stroke of brilliance with the "Thursday Next" series of adventure books. Lost in a Good Book is the second release in the series and I've given it a very high 3 of 5 stars. As it's a very difficult book to truly wrap your head around, it couldn't get a 5 from me. When I compared it to the first one, The Eyre Affair, I had to give it a slightly lower rating just because I enjoyed the first one more. A few really cool things about these books:1. Thursday is a lit
Book Review
Jasper Fforde had a stroke of brilliance with the "Thursday Next" series of adventure books.
The book has footnotes on every page, but they're not real footnotes.
I'm sure you're confused if you've never read one of these books.
But it can get very confusing if you don't read slowly and think about every single action.
At times, I think it's one of the best stories I've read.
All you need to know is if you have a huge imagination, don't need structure, and love books...
here's the scoop: I read A LOT.
Many thanks to their original creators.[polldaddy poll=9729544]	[polldaddy poll=9719251]
This was a reread and I still loved it just as much as the first time around.
Pickwick the dodo gets so many mentions in the early books.
The way she looks after her egg and makes "plock plock" noises is delightful.
And of course this is the book where something happens to poor Landon.
Disappointing because he is one of my favourite characters but still very typical of Fforde's clever, funny and crazy ideas.Thursday is developing her skills at book jumping and we start to meet all the wonderful characters at Jurisfiction.
I always love a book about books and this one is brilliant:)
I love the sheer inventiveness of Jasper Fforde's books, and in this series, the madcap way that he messes with literature, with both love and a childlike glee, and it makes me happy to have spent some time rereading this book.Note: The rest of this review has been withdrawn due to the changes in Goodreads policy and enforcement. You can read why I came to this decision here.In the meantime, you can read the entire review at Smorgasbook
Maybe only a 3.5 star, but it was another fun trip into such a strange world filled with literary references, slippery characters, murder, & mayhem.
I'd call it a cozy mystery, except that belies just how fantastic the world is & there is no way the reader can figure out what is going to happen.
'It's a mixed up, muddled up, shook up world except for Lola Thursday.
Oh, oh, Lola Thursday...' OK, I'll quit singing now, but if this series had a theme song, that wouldn't be a bad one.It was a bit uneven, but I put that down to the high points striking me as so funny.
About 40 pages from the end, I had to run out and get the next book in the Thursday Next series, "Well of Lost Plots." This book doesn't have an ending!
"Lost in a Good Book" is the sequel to "The Eyre Affair" starring spec ops officer Thursday Next.
I will say that, unlike "The Eyre Affair", "Lost in a Good Book" does not stand on its own.
(I rather suspect that there won't be any resolution in the next book either.)Now, I rarely read series.
It's even more rare for me to read books in a series back to back.
So what happens when someone reads one of their books when they're not there?I mean, sometimes they have a character exchange program, but that seems to be for more long term things.
I mean, I'm ok with low-brow, but it's a little bit said when characters with the names of Schitt-Hause and Mr. Dedman and Mr. Walken are the height of humor.)And I did like the bits with Mycroft.
3.5 stars
I liked the first book in this series but I thought this one was incredible.
I really liked the way the characters developed in this book.
Speaking of Goliath, my book had a little approval rating at the front of the book from Goliath which I thought was really cute and I love when books have those sort of things in them.
I also loved how there were parts of this book that tied it to the titles of the previous books and to the sequels.
I loved this book a lot and to be honest I was a little surprised at that because the first one to me was good but not great.
Maybe the novelty of Thursday's world has worn off a bit already, maybe the incessant puns and jokes were just a bit too much.However, Thursday is still one of the best protagonists out there - kickass and kind.The only real problem I have with this book is that it was so obviously written with the idea to continue the story in book #3 and therefore doesn't even attempt to be a standalone story - which makes me feel somewhat cheated and tricked into having to get the next book to find out what happened to my favourite characters.I NEED TO KNOW THAT THE EGG IS OK!Seriously, not cool, Mr. Fforde.
Though character development does not seem to be Fforde's priority and the bad guys in particular a little too thinly drawn, the underlying premise of this book was so interesting to me I was able to overlook the occasional clichéd moment.
As someone who has always gotten easily lost in books, I really love the idea of being able to literally enter books and explore the world behind the story on the page.
Fforde has created an endlessly interesting world of possibilities with his oddball alternate reality, and I am most curious to see where he will take it next.
Read that first, or you might be a bit lost.Thursday Next is now married to Landon.
Neandrathals have been brought back and are now fighting for their rights (the government forced sterilization on all of them).Thursday herself is one of my favorite characters in a long time.
And Thursday never wastes her time thinking about men and love, except for her own husband, Landon.
SO REFRESHING.I was so, so angry reading this book.
(hide spoiler)]I adore Thursday's sweet father, a time-traveler on the run from Special Ops, who cares about her and always shows up in the nick of time to help her and guide her.
A helluva lot of fun.
I didn’t mean to read this book right now.
Having been rather lukewarm about the first book in this series, I wasn’t sure whether to continue but some have said the series gets better.
I thought I'd scan the first few pages and decide what to do.Then, like Thursday Next, I fell into this book.
It was clever, delightful; entertaining with lots of plot twists and turns, including an end-of-the-world scenario.
I wonder what Dickens would think of Fforde's rendition of his stern, revengeful character.I’m looking forward to the rest of this series now.
Fforde has an amazing imagination.
https://poseidons99.wordpress.com/201...
3.0 to 3.5 stars. Not quite as enjoyable as Fforde's other novels (my favorite being The Big Over Easy) but still a good read. I really like the "world" of Thursday next and will certainly visit it again by reading the next book in the series.
Moore relies rather heavily on teenage angst and sex jokes while Fforde borrows from the English tradition of word play, absurdism (is this even a word?) in the manner of Lewis Carroll and Eugene Ionesco, plus a healthy dose of straight slapstick.One small peeve about this book is in the rather thin plot.
We have here something in the manner of an episodic novel, with a string of loosely connected set pieces and an overall arch that doesn't advance much and is left to be resolved in a future book.But all is forgiven in the sheer exuberance of wrecking havoc on timeline continuity and of playing loose with established literary characters.
Still, I shouldn't have worried as this is such a great read!The book is packed with wild, hilarious ideas : Thursday Next becomes an apprentice to Miss Havisham (from "Great Expectations" and incidentally a mad driver) in order to become a Jurisfiction Prose Resource Operative (agents whose job is to maintain the integrity of popular fiction), she is prosecuted in Kafka's "The Trial", someone tries to kill her through coincidences, there are grammasites that live inside books and feed on grammar, a Character Exchange Programme so that characters can vacation in a book other than the one they belong to, the Cheshire Cat is the librarian for The Great Library...
Now on to read The Well of Lost Plots again :)
Literary Detective Thursday Next is dealing with her sudden fame, pregnancy, the eradication of her husband from the timeline in order to force her to work for megacorp Goliath by going into books, the thing where someone is trying to kill her, her training as a Jurisfiction (hee) agent to ensure the integrity of books, and the impending end of the world.Weird, fun, metafictional.
Thursday does her Jurisfiction apprenticeship with Miss Havisham, and every other “real” fictional character she interacts with is in the public domain.
Der zweite Teil von Jasper Ffordes Paralleluniversum gefiel mir großartig und noch besser als der erste Teil, da ich mich nicht mehr die doch zu Beginn verwirrende Welt einleben musste.
In diesem Roman wird ein Feuerwerk der grandiosen Ideen gezündet, das von der ersten bis zur letzten Seite anhält.
Oh der Prozess ala Prozess von Kafka in der die Hauptprotagonistin des Romans Thursday Next als Angeklagte verwickelt ist, war wirklich für mich eine der witzigsten Szenen in diesem Buch.
Wunderbar manchmal wünscht man sich in so einer Welt zu leben, in der man ganz einfach von Buch zu Buch reisen kann.
E invece c'è riuscito alla grande con questo secondo volume che si dimostra parimenti intelligente, raffinato, irriverente e soprattutto geniale!E' un libro che contiene TANTE cose, ci sono mille piani di lettura e gli elementi più disparati che possono accontentare qualsiasi lettore: garantito, con Jasper Fforde e la sua Thursday non avrete modo di annoiarvi!La cosa più meravigliosa però è come i libri la facciano da assoluti padroni all'interno della storia: autori, libri pubblicati, libri ritrovati, libri che non hanno mai visto la luce del sole, personaggi che si muovono a loro piacere all'interno del loro libro e negli altri, agenzie letterarie, espedienti letterari..
:DMi è presa una gran voglia di scoprire e approfondire tutto il marasma di autori e libri che Fforde, dando prova di grande cultura in modi anche spesso sottili (E chissà quante chicche nascoste mi sono persa!!), ha tirato in ballo nella sua storia..
I like The Eyre Affair better but only because it's slightly simpler.
I love the allusions, but the plot has too many side plots going on.
That being said, I love continuing with these characters and this world.
Thursday is a great narrator, and the allusions are fun.
I really enjoy the concept of this series, and the way the story moves forward is interesting and slightly unexpected.
I recommend this book only to people who really liked The Eyre Affair.
But if you like post-modern surrealist magical realistic science fiction fantasy, give this a shot.
Although some of the novelty of Thursday Next's world has worn off by the time the reader reaches this sequel to The Eyre Affair, Fforde adds enough new treats to keep the book feeling almost as fresh as its prequel.
The humour is as sharp as ever; indeed, Lost in a Good Book may be even funnier than Fforde's previous novel.
The book is an easy read and is just fun.
It narrates every bibliophile's childlike fantasy--the idea of being able to travel through books.
All in all, Lost in a Good Book is fantastic pleasure reading.
If you like reading, you will love Jasper Fforde's Thursday Next series. Set in an alternative history of England (and the world in general), where 27 levels of Special-Ops monitor everything and the mega-corporation Goliath is waiting to take over the world, it follows Thursday's adventures as a Litra-Tech apprentice of Miss Havisham of Great Expectations fame.If you like books, spies and England and fantasy, this is a must read. Be sure to read The Eyre Affair first.
Another excellent literary romp, I wish I could say yes as many times as Thursday when asked if I've read xxx. I also wish I could book hop. And be Miss Haversham's trainee. And go to THE library. And have a dodo. Plock plock! Much like reading Pratchett, you spend most of the time terribly amused which is no bad thing.
La vita può diventare stressante se siete incinta e vi sradicano il marito, il mondo sta per trasformarsi in un ammasso di gelatina rosa e voi vi ritrovate di punto in bianco nel bel mezzo del Processo di Kafka a dovervi giustificare per aver cambiato il finale di Jane Eyre.Tra l'altro il vostro avvocato per il processo comunica con voi tramite note a piè di pagina, il che non è comodissimo!In situazioni del genere conviene sempre guardarsi le spalle e soprattutto controllare che il livello di entropia dove vi trovate sia sempre a livelli normali perchè quando si abbassa troppo, ovvero quando il numero di coincidenze che vi capitano diventa incredibilmente assurdo,potreste morire da un momento all'altro.La soluzione ai vostri problemi potrebbe però non essere così spiacevole: si tratta semplicemnte di perdersi in un buon libro!
Checked out Lost in a Good Book after refreshing my memory of Thursday Next by re-reading The Eyre Affair.
[later purchased this]The second book starts with Thursday as a semi-newlywed, continuing her work with SpecOps 27, the Literary Detectives Division.
In between giving unwilling interviews, being harassed by Goliath and determining whether a newly-discovered play really was by Shakespeare, she is introduced to the Department of Jursifiction; run by those in the bookworld to make sure the stories stay straight.
This installment of the Thursday Next series is a little more free-wheeling, with the multiple story threads weaving in and out (and sometimes getting tied in knots).
This is the second in the series, and Thursday Next, who works as a Literary Dtective in Special Ops, has just her ground-breaking work in The Eyre Affair (she ended up changing the ending from Jane moving to India to Jane staying in England and marrying Mr. Rochester).
In this book which is full of puns and literary allusions, Thursday becomes a trainee of Miss Havisham from Great Expectations and ends up jumping into many well-loved books including Kafka's The Trial, Austen's Sense and Sensibility and Carroll's Alice in Wonderland (the Cheshire Cat runs the Great Library where all books every published are stored).
Sadly, I was not, and I really hated this book to begin with.
The book is chock full of literary jokes and giggles, but again, the clever format in which they were presented took all the fun out of it.
It was more like a small child saying, "See, look, I read books!
I know character names!
Aren't I smart and well read??" A coworker gave me books two through four of this series, and I would really like to return them by throwing them at his head and asking how he can stand to read such garbage.
And: I think that I enjoyed this book even more than the first one, which is saying a lot.
I’m also thrilled because several people have told me that the next/third book in the series is their favorite so far; I believe that there are 5 now.
I’m finding that I am enjoying some books’ characters more in Fforde’s books than in their original books.Fforde is brilliant and these books are so much fun to read.I’m been strongly recommending this series to several friends.
The books should be read in order, in my opinion; of course, I do think that about all series.
Not so deep as the first one, and I strongly disagree with "to be continued" finale, but funny nonetheless.
Here are some examples:-improved expressions like to catch someone "inky-fingered" or to be "a paragraph late";-candid official anouncements: “Attention, please.
Passengers for the 11:04 DeepDrop to Sydney will be glad to know that the delay was due to too many excuses being created by the Gravitube’s Excuse Manufacturing Facility.
Emily Gray is the narrator of the second Thursday Next book and does an excellent job. If you love the Classic Literature of the British, this is the series for you. Jasper Fforde's Thursday Next should be the next action star hero.
