https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/88313.Peace_on_Earth
At the outset of this tale, mankind has indeed managed to bring about peace on earth, but there’s a problem, and the redoubtable space adventurer Ijon Tichy (who figures into a number of Lem’s earlier writings) has been brought in to solve it.
The major powers of Earth have realized that weapons are being developed faster than they can be limited by international agreement, and they’ve devised an ingenious stratagem: the moon will be divided into a handful of national sectors, and a new international body called the Lunar Agency will move everyone’s weapons there, where testing and further development will be placed under computer control.
What happens is that the Earth powers lose touch with their automated forces on the Moon, and send Ijon Tichy there to investigate.At the outset, he suffers a remote callotomy at the hands (or whatever) of the Moon forces, in which the left and right hemispheres of his brain are disconnected.
But he is a valuable resource, so he is sent back to the moon to report on what is happening there.
It is written with sly humor throughout, like all the Ijon Tichy books, of which Lem has written several.
“Sadistics: the algebra of conflicts that end fatally for all parties.”Wish I had read this fifty years ago.
Stand alone story.“Politicians continued business as usual, more concerned about voters than the future.”Extra star because this story reads so well fifty years after written.
Lem nailed nano-technology though he wrote at a time when the first integrated circuits were huge and slow.
Correctly posited that the future of military--like all technology--is smaller, not larger.
Though identified as written in 1867, correctly refers to 1969 and subsequent moon landings.“The infiltration of political, religious and social movement … taking advantage of the illusions of the young and the conservatism of the old.”
Part insightful look into neurology as it intersects with behavioral psychology and part cold war era hard sci-fi, the book touches both bases well and makes their fusion interesting and integral to the plot.
The premise of the book exactly touches on what I have always suspected about the cold war mentality, namely that the whole thing was totally irrational and became more and more self-referential as each military commitment became more an abstract statement and less about actual warfighting capability.
Lem's premise at first seemed crazy but somehow felt plausible, and eventually gave way to the revelation that it gibes completely with my impression of cold war paranoia.
One of, if not the last, book of fiction by LEM. It is difficult to 'chonologize' his work as, like Jules Verne, it is translated, thus not published in English consecutively. This complex, interesting and intelligent story is written with great humour. I enjoyed this very much.
Pero si la primera parte parece una buena novela, aunque de un Lem flojo, cuando pasa a describir los robots de la Luna nos encontramos de nuevo con el Lem más imaginativo y atrevido, con algunas escenas realmente psicodélicas, si se tiene en cuenta qué nos está narrando.
Sobre la media de la ciencia ficción es una novela que está muy por encima, pero en la de Lem se encuentra entre aquellas que no figuran entre las tres o cuatro mejores obras suyas.Eso sí, como introducción a Lem es muy recomendable, ya que pueden apreciarse algunas de sus mejores virtudes como autor y la inmersión es menos impactante para el lector poco habituado a la ciencia ficción, y al genial autor polaco.
A bit strange from the outset, Peace on Earth follows an older model of science fiction than I've been reading in a long time.
Lots of invented words, techno-babble, unique concepts, and entertaining anachronism (robots, lasers, and...
The espionage-centric bits are probably the weakest parts of the whole book, as a reader I would have preferred getting more insights into the world (and moon) the author had imagined.
I'd recommend this book to readers looking for new scientific fiction that's novel and bit weird.
Not the strongest sci-fi I've read lately, but unique enough that I'll never confuse it with anything else.

"The best research done on the split brain and the results of that operation are in Professor Gazzanigi's book, The Bisected Brain, published in 1970 by Appleton Century Crofts, Educational Division, at the Meredith Corporation, and may my brain never grow together again if I'm inventing Michael Gazzanigi" - p 6, Peace on Earth Of course, it's the fictional character Ijon Tichy who's saying the above & since both he & his callotomy are fictional his brain is no more likely to grow back together if he 'tells the truth'.

Dick- and it is no wonder since Lem's 1987 novel Peace on Earth shares many of the same themes that Dick covered: militarization of robots, people losing their memory or not being what they seem, and government conspiracies.
Eventually Tichy quits using humanoid robots and begins using a reconfigurable robot body that can transform into different animal shapes so as to move more effectively through the different structures built by the robots.Teleoperated robots are sometimes called avatars, though the term avatar was originally restricted to software simulations- James Cameron changed that connotation with his movie.
Another excellent science fiction novel from Stanislaw Lem, and yet another adventure of his greatest character, Ijon Tichy.
The story was a bit more predictable than most of Lem's work, but the tale took you on the usual entertainingly convoluted ride to the climax.
The world is at peace and there were no more arms races after all the nations of the world sent their arms-making capabilities to the moon as an ultimate mutually-assured destruction deterrent.
But naturally, not every one is happy with that and Tichy is sent up to investigate what is happening on the Moon.
i do like an ijon tichy story, and this one had some amusing/interesting ideas, but it lost steam near the end. one of the weaker lem books i've read.
Połączenie dwóch wątków, ciekawa futurystyka, w latach 60. musiała robić jeszcze większe wrażenie. Lem jakiego lubię
http://dms.booklikes.com/post/382186/...
Una historia interesante a la que le cuesta coger el ritmo.
Extremely boring. I had to stop reading it.
"Children," went the new doctrine, "should not be subjected to daily imprisonment and the psychological torture called learning." Who needs to know how many men's shirts you can sew out of six yards of Egyptian cotton if one shirt requires seven eighths of a yard, or when two trains will collide if one engineer is eighteen, drunk, and going 100 miles an hour and the other is colorblind and doing 75, if they're separated by 15 miles of track and 43 pre-automation semaphores?
I adore the premise of this novel: the solution to continuous arm race and war being each country sending a computer to the moon to create self evolving weapons of mass destruction and relinquishing any right to knowledge about what is going on there, but then this ignorance is manipulated by the government/other parties to stir up fear of invasion by the moon.
Aaaand at the same time the main character is suffering from a severing of his left and right hemispheres, making part of his brain a dark side of the moon that he can't communicate with but might hold some secret to what's going on on the moon.
But I loved it and will definitely be reading more Lem.
As far as I can tell, Peace on Earth is Lem's last novel; in any case, it is the last which has been translated into English.
The subject is the arms race: Earth, taking the first step toward the sort of world which is described in Fiasco, has moved the arms race to the Moon, where the arsenals of the various nations are undergoing a self-evolution of which the Earth is (intentionally) ignorant, but there is suspicion that the robot weapons may have combined and plan an invasion of the Earth; and of course Ijon Tichy is in the midst of things.
An interesting book, although not quite as good as Fiasco.
At first, I felt quite disoriented by Lem’s stylistic choices in opening this narrative; however, as the protagonist Tichy stitches together his (“I and I”) recollection back together, the game-theoretic underpinnings of the human arms race followed by that of the machines becomes clear.
I truly loved how it all came down to the principles of evolution, and of how, in filling a niche on the moon as a parasite to the only entities it encountered (weaponized artificial intelligence agents), the “virus” became the ultimate enforcer of peace when returned to earth!
Yet again, Lem weaves interesting mathematical and scientific phenomena into a compelling tale.
Great amounts of great ideas, especially about (1) knowing and not knowing and (2) war and it's possible futures. However, while loving Solaris, The Fiasco, The Futurologocal Congress, Return from the Starts (and hating Notes found in a bathtub) this book just passed me by. Not much plot, really at all, difficult to care about the characters, vague and rambling. And the ideas aren't all that> great.Not a great, and I originally gave only two stars.
I’ll definitely need to read this one again. So many interesting ideas packed into one mind bending story.
Come faccio a provare interesse per il presente?
Interesting. But too much focus on tension-less moon robot battles and not enough on split brain weirdness.
Another great book by Lem.
Ijon Tichy, hero of many Lem's books, and one of my favorite literary characters, returns here.The story happens in not so distant future - the Earth has been totally demilitarized and disarmed, and the arms race has been moved to the Moon, where it is pursued by so-called planet machines, basically robots controlled by self-optimizing software, that are evolving to become more and more deadly.
how is it? in my mid-fifties, and having been a sci-fi fan since i read   when i was 11 or 12 or some such tender age, there are still so many wonderful sci fi writers i've not read? (and yes The Big Eye IS as bad as it's cover suggests. didn't matter. i instantly became enamored with science fiction) this brings me to Stanislaw Lem - who i am reading for the first time. i am loving this book and Lem's vision of a possible outcome of the arms race. given that everyone's defenses are such that mi
i am loving this book and Lem's vision of a possible outcome of the arms race.
for as Lem points out, the intelligence of a bee is sufficient for a foot soldier as military prowess and intelligence are two different things.
the stage is set for the story of Ijon Tichy and his mission to the moon where the arms race is being conducted, in the hopes that the earth will survive.
when there are multiple parties -all interested in gaining power over the others- things are going to get complicated.
well, things are definitely going to get complicated.
In this story the Cold War had ended, all militia on Earth have been disbanded, and humanity lives in peace because all countries now have automaton/robot/AI country-representative warrior/soldiers on the moon battling out whatever needs to be via remote.
Of course, building up one country’s battle bots without alerting other countries is illegal (as is spying) yet both occur in this tale.
Astronaut Tichy is sent to covertly find out what’s going on moonside for the mysterious Lunar Agency, but a simple mission leaves him coming back with a severed corpus callosum and, as a result, major memory loss of his time on his mission.
Lem frequently diverges from the main story for several pages for an exposition on a tangential idea.
Usually I didn't mind, because the ideas were interesting, but every once in a while it became tiresome.The remote bodies that the narrator operates during his moon mission I would call telepresence, although Lem (or rather, the translation) refers to it as telematics, a more generic term.The 3rd remote mission, described in the chapter "Carnage," is curious in that it does not obviously advance the plot in any way.
