https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/12249640-in-the-vault
A spooky BR with Craig, to let Lovecraft play with our minds a bit :)What a nice shortie, a quite interesting atmosphere, a quite creepily funny accident. Quite spectacular revenges and a great moral to watch where you put your feet and know that everything comes with a price! :) P.S. I expected a monster, but found none, ah well :S
Lovecraft took the challenge, and turned the idea into a coldly amusing tale of sharp New England business practices punished by a grisly poetic justice whose reach extends beyond the grave.This story is not a favorite with the critics, but I must admit I liked it quite a bit.
Lovecraft dials back his hyperbolic vocabulary, adjusting it to what is after all a simple, around-the-campfire tale of horror.
Besides, the gruesome details here have a disturbing physicality about them, disturbing enough that the story was rejected not only by Weird Tales (in 1925) but by the even more despised pulp publication Ghost Stories (in 1926).
I'm not much of a fan of the horror genre (it tends to freak me out a little) but I am a fan of short stories, so I decided to give this 1925 H.P. Lovecraft shortie a read.
I'm no connoisseur of Lovecraft, but it didn't seem like a very Lovecraftian story, even though it's definitely in the horror genre.
What's a guy to do?Maybe -- just maybe -- he should have had a little more respect for the dead.Thanks to Althea Ann for alerting me to this short story!
A re-read (I've read this one more than once before).An undertaker accidentally locks himself inside a tomb full of coffins awaiting burial.
It's predicated on an assumption of a religious belief in (view spoiler)[the necessity of the integrity of dead bodies.
If you're one of those people who believes that your body needs to be interred intact in order to be resurrected at the end of days, then yes, you will find the undertaker's 'transgression' disturbing.
But I'm not one of those people.
(hide spoiler)]

This is straight up Tales from the Crypt style. All those great Eerie horror comicbooks that evolved out of all hose great weird pulp fiction serials owe a debt to these wonderful writers. Campy creepy fun.
I'm certain this short story about a man who gets trapped in a vault isn't really meant to be funny, but I laughed my head off at it, especially at the overly sensitive horse that was thrown in repeatedly...
Chcem viac!Najviac mi utkveli prvá a posledná poviedka. A konečne čítam!Lovecraftove poviedky mi utkveli v pamäti. Sú plné napätia a hrôzy, zároveň sú skvelo napísané. Veľmi ma zaujal autorov štýl a rozhodne si nenechám ujsť zvyšok jeho práce. Vrelo odporúčam.
A twisted Lovecraftian tale with a moral.
Lovecraft starts out as usual with the clearly forecast bad ending for a character that will be explained with the subsequent story, this one about a lazy undertaker whose indolent ways end up biting him in the butt when he accidentally locks himself in a vault full of caskets he has put off burying.
He must hope to break his way out, and that those bodies don't hold any grudges for his laziness!
I really felt the atmosphere of that dark vault filled with corpses in unrest.
Great ending, Lovecraft always ends with a bang that elevates the entire story.
A wonderful, darkly funny story, with characters evoked and painted beautifully.There's a real see saw of emotions in this tale, with tension and fear counterbalanced with offkilter humour and savage depictions of unworthy men.I could sort of see where the story was heading, but the ending still packed a punch and brought a wry smile to my face.
Prapodivný štýl písania, a zároveň potešenie z primitívnej naivnosti textu. Azda by som Lovecrafta skôr prirovnal k Verneovi ako k Poeovi, aj keď je veľmi vidno, že sa ho snaží napodobniť, no zaostáva až napokon nachádza vlastný štýl, ktorý je ťažké zaradiť. Ak však bol v niečom výnimočný, tak rozhodne v snových popisoch. Najlepšie zo zbierky: Hrobka, Dagon, Bíla loď a Obrázek v domě.
Sort of a very black comedy from Lovecraft. Man, can karma come back and bite you in the ass!
"En la cripta" es un clásico de H. P. Lovecraft, un angustioso relato donde los muertos pueden ser muy vengativos. Adoro este relato. <3
If you don't know what karma is. Read this story...
At any rate he kicked and squirmed frantically and automatically whilst his consciousness was almost eclipsed in a half-swoon."Most people only witness human death as its compounded with ‘-bed’ – or perhaps, intermittently, at the ensuing funeral service.
Few people, by vocation, regularly observe death as it happens.
“In the Vault”, written in September 1925, is a tale of the maniacally macabre which literally goes ankle-deep in the dead.
(*SPOILER* all right, not-totally-dead!) The story was initially rejected by Weird Tales editor Farnsworth Wright on the grounds of its “extreme gruesomeness”, which he thought would positively short-circuit the whole censorship apparatus.
Джордж Берч був дуже недбалим трунарем, всі його труни були хисткими.
Взимку 1881 року дев'ять небіжчик зібралося у склепі, бо копать у промерзлому грунті було неможливо.
Одного квітневого дня Берч взявся за роботу, але під час перебування в склепі, двері зачинилися протягом і їх заклинило.
(view spoiler)[Єдиний порятунок - збудувати східці з трун і пролізти через отвір над дверима.
Коли доктор оглянув нещасного, то побіг у склеп, де його здогадки підтвердилися: Джордж Берч провалився у труну злопам'ятного Асафа Сойера, якому трунар обрізав гомілки, щоб той помістився у замалу для нього труну.
Саме тому небіжчик помстився - око за око, гомілки за гомілки.
(hide spoiler)]
An undertaker with a procrustean solution to his coffin problems learns the hard way that kismet is a bitch on the feet when he gets trapped overnight in the vault. This is an earlier piece of Lovecraft's, apparently, and his prose is not quite as purple as it normally gets. Also, this is a straight up horror story, no weird dreams, no Cthulhu, no insignificance of mankind in the face of the cosmic horrors of the Elder Gods. I enjoyed reading this one.
This is more of a fun read than a typical eerie Lovecraft tale, for me, anyway. The prose is also on the simpler side, as opposed to his typical prose. Granted, a reader more disturbed by cemeteries and dead bodies may find it less "fun". It reads like a horror story you'd tell at a sleepover, with the twist at the end closing it very aptly.
The protagonist makes this fun. A bumbling, careless buffoon that traps himself in a tomb. Outside of that it was so so. I understand he took the climactic moment as a writer's prompt and so deserves credit for writing outside his cthulhu cosmic horror mythos.
Another short short story. It was ok. Very little suspense I thought and the twist at the end was a bit of a letdown. I knew halfway through it would be a letdown, and it still let me down. Haha. 3 stars for this one.
Interesting short story.
Spisy 1 : Hrobka Klasika klasík, ktorá ma rozhodne nemohla minúť. Ako je to ťažké čítanie. Predsa len, ide to od 1920.
Its fun straight forward gothic horror.
8/10
Oddly, I have tagged this Lovecraft story as "Dickensian" rather than "Lovecraftian". It's a pretty standard creepy crypt story. Not badly executed, but not particularly interesting, either.
Attempted humor? This one's a miss.
I thought this was a clever little tale. Very much like a ghost story my daughter would tell her friends.
Eh, it was okay.
Predictable, but fantastic all the same!
