https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/566993.Black_Narcissus
If you have read The Nun's Story by Kathryn Hulme or seen the film starring the exquisite Audrey Hepburn, then you will immediately recognise that Rumer Godden's Black Narcissus is a similar story transplanted to the cold windiness of the Himalayas from the feverish heat of the Belgian Congo.
The seductive Dr. Fortunati of the Nun's Story becomes the British agent, Mr. Dean, in the Black Narcissus.
If you like nun's stories with plenty of sexual tension, a tragic death, and natives who don't live up to expectations then both these books (and films) are very good.
expect tragedy!
This deserves recognition and applause.This book is intense; you are drawn in and don’t want to put it down.
The prose is lovely.
First of all the GR book description compares this to A Passage to India.
The characters are some nuns in a cloister up on a high mountain outside Darjeeling, India, in the Himalayan foothills.
The message of the book is fantastic.
What more do you want from a book?
She knows India, its people, their thinking and their traditions.
In this novel she captures the human reality of religious life.The narration of the audiobook is by Jilly Bond.
The General has invited some English nuns to open a convent school and medical clinic in the building.
When they visit the site, the English agent Mr Dean tells them, "This is no place for a nunnery." He can anticipate the clash of cultures and conflicting religious beliefs.
But the group of nuns ignores his advice, and transforms the building into the Convent of St Faith.The religious community includes an inexperienced sister superior, and a nun who gets overly attached to the young children.
Her obsession with Mr Dean builds and finally climaxes in a Gothic tragedy.Rumer Godden writes beautifully with vivid characters, and a strong sense of place.
Seriously though, I love nun themed stories, films, books...you name it.
Remember Nuns on the Run and all the Sister Act movies?
They're hip, devoted, sweet, stern, selfless, and well...sometimes down right scary!I fell in love with the film adaptation of Godden's Black Narcissus many years ago, and vowed to read the book because there were certain aspects of the plot that I didn't really understand.
Now that I've read it, I am even more fascinated and enamored with the concept this book.
(Interesting to me for a religion that has confessions of thinking things like impure thoughts.
Both are my favorite stories about nuns.
It feels to me more like going in every which way daily life, little and big stuff that amount to more than you had ever thought.
Like John Lennon said, life is what happens when you're busy making plans.
People are too complicated, life not black and white like a nun's habit, and admitting that isn't breaking yourself so much as the best part when you realize it isn't over and there's life after mistakes.
There's a very real chance that if I hadn't already seen the wonderful Michael Powell and Emeric Pressburger movie adaptation that I would have loved this book, but there's also an even greater chance that if I hadn't already loved the movie I wouldn't have even picked up a novel about the passions and repressions of some Catholic nuns setting up a hospital and school for the natives in the Himalayas and their struggle to acclimatise.
Godden captures the beauty, majesty and alien nature of the surroundings with evocative descriptive passages, utilising them to slowly build up an atmosphere of tension and dislocation from reality.
I just don't get this. Everything about it is wandering. The narrative is confusing, lack of character development, and I don't see a point. It is somewhat humorous. Oddly I was reminded of DuMaurier reading this. And then I noticed someone else mentioned this. I did not love her writing either. Oh well just could not connect.
Mr. Dean is also a well written character, a classic charming drunk who despises the very presence of these women in his world, while at the same time startling with his concern and respect for them.The vivid descriptions of the flowers, mountains, the sky, the weather, the smells and food, are very well done and the estate and the country do indeed become their own character, a cruel and beautiful creature that nurses the natives to her breast just as surely as she wears the nuns down one by one.My biggest complaint about the book, although considering the context of the time it was written perhaps it was unavoidable, is that the natives in the novel are painted over with one brown brush that stamps each and every one of them with the phrase "ignorant savage".
And then there’s Sister Ruth, a troubled woman, full of jealousies and suppressed emotions; the kind of person no-one really wants around.As they begin to settle into life at the convent, each of the nuns finds the isolation working on them in different ways.
He is not conventionally religious, constantly challenging Sister Clodagh’s rather glib attempts to create a replica of the mother convent here in a place with a very different culture and spirituality, and pointing out any time he feels she falls short of what she professes to believe.
I fell in love with the cinema adaptation of ‘Black Narcissus’ – by Michael Powell and Emeric Pressburger – many years ago, but it was only a few years ago that I noticed Rumer Godden’s name among the credits, and realised that the book that had been adapted was written by an author whose works for children I had loved.‘Black Narcissus’ was Rumer Godden’s third novel and her first best-seller.It tells the story of a small group of nuns from the Order of the Servants of Mary, who had has been invited to form a new community in an old, disused palace, the former home of the harem of an Indian general, high in the Darjeeling hills.
This is another one of her books I couldn't put down, about some Anglican missionary nuns who try to establish a hospital and school in a very remote part of India (?) The descriptions of the scenery are so vivid and colorful.
Godden portrays the nuns finding themselves in such a raw untouched place of God's beauty strips away the layers or protection they have built around ourselves.
Little by little the nuns must face their bared souls.
The story shows how each nun deals with this humbling experience, either by accepting and growing or retreating or worse.
The General's agent Mr Dean warns 'It's no place for a nunnery," but Sister Clodagh looks at the orchids on the terrace and the eagles flying in the clouds and cries, "It's an inspiration just to stand here.
Who could live here and not feel close to God!" Sister Clodagh has always been overconfident and authoritative, but Mr. Dean recalls to mind her youthful, unrequited love."We call it Kanchenjunga and we believe that God is there.
Especially in Sister Ruth, a troublesome nun who seeks 'self-importance'.The novel ends in a whirlwind of disorder, with a thrilling Gothic climax.Open Road Media has acquired twelve Godden titles and I am thrilled to think of her rediscovery.
Black Narcissus is a four-star book simply because it was shorter and not quite as complex as Brede, but this takes nothing away from Godden's ability to set up characters and places with a simple, subtle, penetrating touch.Like Brede, this is another story about nuns -- a small group of nuns steeped in their belief system and traditions venture into India to turn a one-time palace for concubines, which overlooks the Tibetan mountains, into a convent.

And Rumer Godden's writing style is just what I love: polished and beautiful.It's the story of a small order of Sisters who try to set up a convent/school/infirmary in an extremely remote and dramatically landscaped locale in India.
I particularly loved how the landscape and the convent house itself (a house which used to be inhabited by a harem)both distract and influence the Sisters--one starts drifting in daydreams, another falls for a local Englishman, and another makes plans for an overly ornate garden.
Of course, something goes terribly wrong in the end just like I knew it would, but I really enjoyed reading this book.
A beautiful evocative book.Exquisite writing with wonderful descriptions of the scenery which makes you feel as if you are there.The nun's have to come to terms with their own desires which leads to the dramatic conclusion.A real page turner with wonderful characters.The first I've read of hers but will be looking out for more.
Powerfully imagined and written. A very good book which was made into a very great movie.
This was a well-told, haunting tale. I had great expectations for this book and was not disappointed. I love Rumer Godden’s writing.
I was not prepared for the wonderful descriptions of the mountainous Himalayan landscapes in which the group of nuns who make up the primary characters set up their new convent.
The local people do not take to them very easily, although some kind of understanding is brought about through the intervention of Mr Dean who runs a local tea factory and provides the sisters with help in fixing up their new home.Published in 1939, the book is set in an that India was still part of the British Empire.
No one does nuns and the religious life quite like Rumer Godden, and this wonderful book shows her at the height of her powers.
It’s a simple enough tale – a group of well-meaning nuns set up home in an abandoned palace in the Himalayas.
But it’s not long before tensions start to grow, for these are very human nuns, full of human doubts, longings, regrets, temptations and desires and their future looks increasingly uncertain.
Well-written, well-paced, with sympathetic characterisation and authentic dialogue, and with vivid and evocative descriptions of the landscape, this is a real gem of a book and a thoroughly absorbing and engaging read.
This is what comes of well-meant meddling; in this case in the form of a bit of religious missionary work.On the face of it, perhaps it doesn't sound like such an exciting plot: some nuns go and live in the Himalayas for a bit.
All that religious repression isn't always good for the soul.I was a bit sad that Sister Phillippa didn't get to stay and finish her garden.
I think she'd found her passion in life, but ended up giving it up to get back to God. And Sister Clodagh, the Irish nun and leader of the nunnary.
“You have to be very strong to live close to God or a mountain, or you'll turn a little mad,” says Rumer Godden.Re-reading her novel Black Narcissus the other day, I remembered all the reasons I had always loved this lady writer.
And what is not to love about Black Narcissus?
They find themselves unable to stop gazing at the mountains for hours upon end and experience varying levels of elation.
I read this because I loved the film. I loved this as well, but for different reasons. Where the film is jarring, intense, and unsettling at parts, the book is far more quiet and contemplative. The film seemed more concerned with conveying a sense of place, which it did wonderfully (despite the fact the film was almost entire shot on a set in Great Britain!) while the book focuses much more on the characters, making them less mysterious and more accessible. In both, Sister Phillipa, the sister obsessed with gardening, is by far the most interesting character.
What joy to read Rumer Godden! I always enjoy her unique style of writing. Her descriptions of the landscape, dominated by Mt. Kanchenjunga, are so vivid that you can almost imagine you're there; it creates a lovely, yet vaguely menacing background for the story throughout the book. She has created unforgettable characters and shows you a different and interesting perspective on life through each of them. This book has inspired me to think once again about the meaning of spirituality in our lives.
After finishing the book, I was thinking of that episode from the original STAR TREK series called, "Shore Leave." In it, members of the Enterprise crew found themselves inexplicably coming face-to-face with their hidden thoughts and imaginations which ...
Formerly, a monastery had tried to do the same thing, but the Brothers left the spot without giving a reason.When the Sisters try to bring a sense of order to the area, they are met with resistance and challenges.
Mr. Dean, the Englishman who keeps things working for the General and the Sisters, has survived by "giving in" to the surroundings years ago.
To their surprise, the nuns find themselves overpowered by the mountains' majesty and spiritual force, in contrast to their lack of interest in their own rather mundane Christian rituals.* We wonder who is really the holiest: a group of service-oriented nuns, out to teach people who have no desire to be taught, or a local holy man who sits alone and silent, pondering the mountain.* We see the utter folly and hubris of Westerners entering an age-old culture, with little understanding or respect.* The author questions the whole idea of religious vocation by having the main character, a very capable nun, join the order merely to spite a boyfriend who looks like he's going to jilt her.This book is a classic of British Raj literature, and includes themes of sexuality and madness.
If you haven't seen Powell & Pressburger's spectacular 1947 film of Black Narcissus - a genteel yet no less sinister psychological horror about British nuns in India - it won't be a great deal of use to tell you that my overwhelming impression of the book is how similar to the film it is.
The visuals on screen, though, are more impressive than Godden's perfectly competent and interesting descriptions.The only things in the book which aren't in the film are simply a result of the medium: the novel gives some of the characters greater interiority.
Read in school, need to re-read to rate.
I remember seeing the film years ago, although I can’t say I remembered much about the story other than it involved a dramatic tale of nuns on a mountain in India.The novel opens as Sister Clodagh prepares to leave her religious community in Darjeeling for Mopu in the Himalayan mountains to the north.
Here Sister Clodagh will take on the role of Sister Superior to a small group of nuns who will be helping to set up a convent school community in an abandoned palace.
A good story, serviceable characterizations, lush descriptions, effective atmosphere, good technique, good prose.Rumer Godden appears to us in the guise of Mr. Dean, a man of scandalous reputation, gone native, a drinker, who speaks in a direct not to say rude manner.
We have only to consult Mr. Dean to know what is sensible.Mr. Dean tells us the natives are children.
He has a deep seated suspicion of women.Black Narcissus is a meditation on human fallibility and Mr. Dean is a little too infallible.
