https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/832114.Panzram
Here he sets down a detailed description of his criminal exploits, his upbringing in correctional facilities for juvenile delinquents (where he was severely beat and tortured for petty infractions; his accounts are reminiscent of those of Charles Manson's own experiences as a youth) and time as an adult incarcerated in places as varied as Leavenworth to county jails, his time spent doing various jobs from strikebreaker who attacked and brutalized everyone to a failed attempt at soldiering, and attempts to explain how the world turned him into the misanthropic, hate filled, psychopathic serial killing machine that he became.Most interesting is his Nietzschean-like "might is right" and nihilistic philosophy:"I don't believe in man, God nor Devil.
But I was motivated to read further because I’d heard that several learned men and women determined this book to be one worth completing for the purpose of gaining a greater understanding of sexual pathology and extreme rage.
You get to go past the sickening crimes, and once there, you learn about a man.
But a man nonetheless.So in short, if you're looking to understand humanity a little better, then this is the book for you!
And I believe that the only way to reform people is to kill 'em.""From hell's heart I stab at thee; for hate's sake I spit my last breath at thee!" - Ahab (?)"Naturally, I now love Jesus very much.
Don't be a stool pigeon, a rat or an informer.""War, in the final analysis, is merely murder and robbery and the expenditure of life and property.""The criminal does not profit by his crimes.
I still do.""My philosophy of life is such that very few people ever get, and it is so deeply ingrained and burned into me that I don't believe I could ever change my beliefs.""I'm mad - plenty mad right now.
I don't like to totally emphasize the social in the shaping of humans but in some cases it seems fairly obvious that if a person's abused long enuf they'll become completely desensitized to abusing others.
Such was the case w/ Carl Panzram.
Panzram, the murderer that this bk is about, is quoted as saying "In my lifetime I have murdered 21 human beings.
I have no desire whatever to reform myself.
My only desire is to reform people who try to reform me.
And I believe that the only way to reform people is to kill 'em."
He was sent to the 'reform' school, a type of institution little better than a prison where spending tax money on stone construction and heating systems and cafeteria meals were immensely, more important that helping troubled boys so that they can become usefull honest citizens.
his experiences in this place, (just being in a place like this would stigmatize a person for life) and the tortures imposed on him in his adult life spent mostly in prison, he was probably molested by a reform achool staff member, help turn him into an utter unredeemable monster.
It was probably Rusty because he reads more crime stuff.
I think...Anyway, despite being a prolific arsonist, thief, rapist, and murderer, I'm pretty sure Carl Panzram was the funniest criminal in the history of criminals.
He probably doesn't mean to be funny but he's just so earnestly hateful of the entire human race that I can't help but giggle.
heh.) He pretty much just killed everyone who pissed him off that he could get his hands on.
This book surely made me examine my opinions about crime and punishment.Alright so he was a sociopath.(forest gump of US prisons)
Everything you wanted to know about prisons and everything you didn't, from the words of a killer who hated all mankind and admitted to it too, and yet you can't help it but to feel compassion when you read about his life, half of which he spent in prisons starting at the age of 11, and then you see his humanity emerge and you cry and you think you'd probably become a killer too if you went through what he went through, and yet he was never broken, not until the very end. A fascinating, horrifying read.
This book, in my opinion, is one of the finest books written about the life of a criminal and how the penal system shapes many of them. It's really an autobiography, written by Panzram, with interludes and commentary between chapters. Excellent.
THIS SHIT WAS AWESOME. CARL PANZRAM WAS A CULTURED LOW LIFE, LIKE A WHORE WITH A MONOCLE.
Panzram was an utterly evil and violent man. He was also a powerful writer and his life story is a warning to a 21st Century bent on imprisoning as many as possible as brutally as possible.
"It was 2:00 AM before Lesser got a chance to slip into Isolation to pick up the first batch of writing. He stayed to converse for a few minutes, catching his first glimpse of a strong if uneducated mind. The young gard was suprised to learn that Panzram had read Schopenhauer and shared that philosophers pessimism about human affairs. Intrigued by the pages that rustled underneath his jacket, Lesser walked straight up the the jail barber shop, turned on the overhead light and sat down in the big
The young gard was suprised to learn that Panzram had read Schopenhauer and shared that philosopher´s pessimism about human affairs.
Intrigued by the pages that rustled underneath his jacket, Lesser walked straight up the the jail barber shop, turned on the overhead light and sat down in the big wooden chair.The narrow, lined tablet pages were still fresh with carefully penned words which stretched tightly in a slow, even hand, from one edge to another.
Lesser could not find any words for what moved him.
I'd never heard of this true story, until I stumbled across a documentary released in 2011 called Carl Panzram: The Spirit of Hatred and Vengeance.
He was an angry violent man made even more dangerous by years of serving time under merciless penal codes and the prison abuses of the early 20th century.
He made one friend in his his bloody 38 years of life, prison guard Henry Lesser, who convinced him to write down his life story.
It's a sad, sick story.
The reader is given the opportunity to read the words of one of society's true monsters.
OK, so I just like people who don't care about anything..even if they are serial killers. Don't ask me why. I think I would rather be a serial killer than a corporate lackey. Wait...I AM a corporate lackey.Interesting and accurate perspective on social conditions around the turn of the 19th century and afterwards, left me understanding why killing people might have been one way out. Just in case I'm ever a suspect in any killing: it's not my way out, and neither is sodomizing men while robbing them, but the man does have several valid viewpoints.
Just reread this book a couple of months ago. Just as disturbing and enjoyable as the first time in 2005.
Fascinating insight into the potential depths of human evil.
Like Panzram himself the book spends most of its time in prison.
But not only is this journalism that makes up half of this book written far more dry and bored than Panzram's writings (plus with a lot more technical sloppy writing, one of the more hilarious turns being the author spelling his own name wrong), it both runs alongside and then deviates from Panzram's thoughts on the matter.Gaddis (no relation) seemingly believes in the rehabilitation of prisoners.
Panzram believes, in his own words, "the only way to reform people is to kill em".
His confession was written in prison and given to a guard, Henry Lesser, that he had befriended.
He decided to represent himself and plead not guilty, but openly stated his intent was to gain the death penalty and be executed.
As such he is eventually executed in a state that had no death penalty.
Several attempts are made by various anti-death penalty groups to appeal to the president to have Panzram’s sentence commuted to life imprisonment.
Lesser was his guard and mentions Panzram to him.
For anyone looking to understand the mind of a sociopath.
For all these things I am not in the least bit sorry." Panzram's clear-eyed self-report is sometimes marred by self-pity, but his analysis of his own situation is chillingly rational, intelligent, and well-written.
What he has to say about the American prison system is as relevant today as it was when he wrote it almost a hundred years ago.
The only reason his narrative exists is because a prison guard encouraged him to write it and gave him $20, which Panzram insists is the first nice thing anyone ever did for him.
I wasn't overly fond of the analysis that accompanied the letters most of the time, since I sort of wanted to be able to figure them out on my own.
I think it was only necessary for the author(s) to give the Panzram's background information that wasn't included or referenced in the letters.
I also think there was too much information on Lesser.
Yes, he was a good advocate for correctional reform and was instrumental in Panzram telling his story, but I really didn't care about his personal life at all.
I ended up reading the endnotes because I was still wanting more.
Grim and horrifying, but also incredibly enlightening.
Many people read true crime to understand what the difference is between a law-abiding citizen and someone who goes out and commits terrible crimes against others.
The story also makes clear that this man could have been reached at many different points in his life, and only one person made the effort -- with very limited results because he came along when a great deal of damage had been done.
Left me feeling kind of split down the middle -- it's hard to really judge someone with so many strikes against him, even though he was incredibly dangerous and made no bones about that fact.
Certainly a dark escapade through the mind of a thief/killer/sadist, but also a clear account of the direct impact of the corrections system upon a person.
While Panzram was certainly a criminal before he ever entered into prison, his descent into darkness and depravity was hastened by what he encountered while in jail.
Despite the changes to our corrections system over the last 80 years, Panzram makes clear that locking someone up and letting them rot during that sentence will never change a person.
His theories on the entire system are fascinating, and give you a chance to catch your breath in between the passages of darkness.
It was all right. It got a little repetitive and the style was a bit dry but it was an interesting view into the early 1900's.
An absolutely brutal tale, that keeps all the sources in a row. One of the best true crime books I've ever read. Must read for any true crime enthusiast.
Scary
That is where Panzram differs.This novel is written from the firsthand, personal, account of the self proclaimed “most criminal man in the world.” He has no issue with reliving his crimes, and does so in a nearly giddy sense, talking of the rape, robbery and murder of countless people.
Long and Gaddis bring a sense of recent (the 1960s) true crime writing, which mixes like oil and water between them and Panzram, so the reader gets a sense of the time that has lapsed, or regressed from portion to portion of the writing.There lies the one criticism I have of this book.
For Panzram (so it is evicenced through this book, his journals, his correspondence with his friend Henry Lesser) was a quite sensitive giant.
Carl Panzram was a profoundly lonely man with a hard-wired hate for himself: hence his almost rabid plea for penitence and death.
Still and albeit an anti-Christian he was far from being beyond good and evil as he himself acknowledged.
Except he was shoved sexuality into him at a prepubescent age; likewise, he was instilled a hate for God and religion by torture and observation of the so-called pious before he was given a chance to explore and think.
Hij was geen waanzinnig beest, maar een gewone mens die de verkeerde dingen had meegemaakt.
Panzram moordde en verkrachtte - mannen en jongens, voor alle duidelijkheid, als een soort wraak voor wat hij zelf had meegemaakt.* De eerlijkheid waarmee Panzram zijn daden beschrijft, werkt.
Geen verbloeming, geen vergoelijking.* De auteurs vullen de gaten tussen Panzrams eigen verhaal op met uitstekende non-fictiejournalistiek.* Het onderwerp blijft zeer relevant.
I have always carried him in my mind as the logical product of our prison system."Zelfs de voetnoten zijn spannend in dit boek.Lees het!
Now his course was set.Panzram spent the rest of his life committing arsons, rapes, burglaries, and murders whenever he was out of prison, and being brutalized himself when he was in prison.
They are an extraordinary chronicle of a life of unrelenting brutality, and the man who lived it.
Yet they are also a journal of an unlikely friendship between a guard and a prisoner.This book is not for everyone; reading about Panzram's life is no picnic, but if you can take it, it is a worthy insight into the mind of a man tormented throughout his life who became a remorseless killer, and his only friend.
Great book,I honestly couldn’t help liking panzram in many ways. In the book dr. Karl Menninger is stated as saying “ panzram is one of the most extraordinary men that he ever met, criminal or non-criminal. He was clearly intelligent, well traveled, and was willing to work. As much as I’d like to believe that determinism doesn’t make a man, panzram anger was warranted considering his pass. It shows the importance in how we treat the children of our generation and how it could effect them in adul
Great book,I️ honestly couldn’t help liking panzram in many ways.
In the book dr.
Karl Menninger is stated as saying “ panzram is one of the most extraordinary men that he ever met, criminal or non-criminal.
He was clearly intelligent, well traveled, and was willing to work.
As much as I’d like to believe that determinism doesn’t make a man, panzram anger was warranted considering his pass.
It shows the importance in how we treat the children of our generation and how it could effect them in adulthood.
He had great human potential and was a tragedy for human kind.
