https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/150549.Collected_Short_Stories
Niko ne ume da napiše tako dobru kratku priču kao Somerset Mom... Mnogi savremeni pisci su od njega "učili" da pišu... Toliko ljudi ga voli a tako je malo prevođen na srpski... nažalost...
Indeed, it took years for me to read only 18 from 30 stories but some years ago for some reason I decided to have a go and hopefully plan to finish these remaining 12 as follows: Rain, The fall of Edward Barnard, Honolulu, The luncheon, Mackintosh, The voice of the turtle, The judgement seat, Me Know-All, The poet, The mother, The promise, and The yellow streak.
I have just finished reading his first 48-page story in this volume and still found it stunningly horrible; it's about "the tragedy of a narrow-minded missionary and a prostitute" (back cover).
This is the first of a four volume short story collection by William Somerset Maugham.
I don't know if Maugham meant it at all but what I surmised from these stories is regardless of the geography, people all over the world are more or less similar.
Yet, there are so many variations that Maugham had to write 30 different stories (well,at least for this volume) which certainly is an infinitesimally small number compared to the innumerable possibilities of human behavior patterns.
And now, in the end, I'd like to thank Mr. William Somerset Maugham for introducing me with the multitude of triviality of human lives in such a joking manner.
With Somerset Maugham, the challenge is both thrilling as well daunting.
Thrilling because here an author I am so happy I discovered and someone with whom I almost feel a kindred spirit - in terms of the themes he takes up and his so called cynicism - which is really not cynicism, but a certain astounding ability to discern human weaknesses.
Also, he realized that seemingly incongruous traits can exist in the same person.
This prevented Maugham from either eulogizing a person too much or berating the evilness in him.
What a great storyteller Somerset Maugham is. Ranging from as little as 4 pages to a few dozens, each story is a delight to read: there is tension, often there is fun, many times tragedy and the prose is beautiful. What else can a reader ask for?
I've got a well old trilogy of these short stories, rather than four books, bought for €25 euros in Málaga. Well worth the money as they are a source of endless re-reading. I love them. There is humour, sadness, inspiration, description, colonial stories of course – a great depiction of an era, and just infinite variety. What not to love? Apart from Kipling, these are probably the best short stories I've ever read.Not reviewing the other books as I'd be repeating the same.
A good, diverse collection of stories, some tragic, some light and amusing. Most are excellent, a few are too long and the story did not interest me, which is why I gave four stars, not five.The stand out stories are -The Fall of Edward BarnardThe LuncheonThe Ant and the GrasshopperAppearance and RealityThe Facts of LifeThe Voice of the TurtleThe UnconqueredThe PoetThe stories I didn't find interesting -The PoolBefore the PartyThe Yellow Streak
Wish I heard about Maugham earlier in my life. Though a bit dense to read (attributing that to the old english writing style) the stories were beautiful written and some of the best shorts I’ve ever read.
The best of these stories exploit the broiling tensions, the understated violence and the sweat and grime of non-English landscape; they are stories of the time they were written, and while some of the descriptions would not fly today, particularly some of dubious gener politics, I do not think the collection is offensive or offputting from a politically sensitive stance.Once the collection moves from the far flung countries back into Europe the level of quality diminishes, and while none of the tales are ever outright poor, the stories set in Spain and France do not have the collective punch of the colonial exercises.
Él se mantuvo constante en su forma de realizar, sobre todo, sus cuentos, en los cuales es un maestro, heredero de Chejov, creador de historias que suele ambientar en paisajes exóticos; recordemos de hecho "el velo pintado" o el archiconocido "RAIN".
Una prosa elegante, sencilla en la construcción de frases, un superclase que deja siempre una pequeña sorpresa en unos cuentos que van en crescendo hasta el momentazo final.Dos grandes muestras de su buen hacer son los fabulosos "Rain" y "The three fat women of Antibes", prodigios que son paradigmáticos de su forma de crear y evolucionar las historias.Para aquellos que pretendan leer algo en inglés es la mejor forma de empaparse en prosa británica de calidad.
It contains his famous story "Rain," which I do not like.
The story I liked most was "Mackintosh," whose two main characters stand clearly for two very famous real people.
Curiously enough, I didn't like much his stories about Spain.
La que más me ha gustado ha sido "Mackintosh", cuyos dos personajes principales representan claramente a dos personas reales muy famosas, aunque dejo que el lector descubra quiénes son.
De las demás, hay 14 que me gustan más que las otras.
Una de ellas, "La inconquistada", es un relato muy duro sobre la Francia ocupada por los nazis.
This writer has always been one of my favorites, somehow he has a really distinctive voice but at the same time writes in a way that makes the reader forget he's reading words and there is only the story left to enjoy.
You can tell he's known a lot of people and probably heard all these stories in some form or another and then wrote them down.
He personally chose the stories himself and put themin the order he wanted them in, which goes georgaphically from the South Pacific to England, Paris, Spain, the SE Asia, generally.
But anyway, one of the most readable writers ever.
I read these stories one after another without getting distracted by anything else. I was astonished by how good they were. I love the way he describes people. He always chooses exactly the right words. He is like a skilful portrait painter. You know these people are real and he has captured them perfectly. But he also has a mischievous sense of humour. He is at once wicked and compassionate. Absolutely exquisite.
Some of these short stories are difficult to read in their overtly racist characters and tone (I don't know enough about Maugham to know if he shared the views of some of his characters or not). Others were delightfully dry and droll. Many were like epigrams: short - pithy - with a witty punch or twist of surprise at the end. I enjoyed those the best.
These were consistently better than his Far Eastern Tales---most of them were very entertaining.
Like most collections of short stories, this one is uneven.
I mostly read a story or two when I had nothing else to read so it took me two months to finish.
If I'd not be able to renew it at the library 3 times, I probably would have tagged it "did not finish" with 2 stars.
However the stories in the last quarter of the book really picked up--definitely some 4 and 5 star material there.Each story stands on its own so my suggestion is to start from the back and give up once you lose interest.
Educated as a doctor, highly successful as a playwrite, Maugham dissects human behavior and transforms the parts into great short stories! I've read a critic who changed Maugham with being a cynic (the critic's words), but I find "Willy" to be one of the most hopeful writers I have ever read. When he finds something postive in a person, I believe it.
A must read!
This is a collection of short stories which amazes the reader with the author's depth of understanding of human nature.
While one may be tempted to praise the ambitious and diligent and look down upon the indolent, the author calls upon us to understand how sometimes enjoying our lives and admiring the beauty of nature around us is far more fulfilling than running behind that elusive pot of gold.
While studying the frailties of human nature, the book beautifully describes the romantic weather and environment of the islands of Oceania which had been recently colonized at the time the book was written.
I have as yet not read any of his novels (that is to come) and instead decided to start with his short stories, a decision I in no way regret.As he wrote a total of 91 short stories, I first tapped the internet for recommendations of his best.
I was thoroughly charmed by each and every one.The typical Maugham short story is a condensed morality tale, subject to his own quirky situational ethics, that is told in a delightful conversational style, frequently with a fictional Maugham as the wry narrator, and ending with a touching, humorous, or shocking surprise.
"...но ако да си циничен, значи да гледаш истината в очите и да негодуваш, когато откриеш, че не е много по вкуса ти, ако това значи да приемаш човешката природа такава, каквато е - с усмивка, когато е глупава, и с непресторена тъга, когато е нерадостна - то тогава аз сигурно съм циник. В повечето случаи човешката природа е едновременно и нелепа, и тъжна, но ако животът те е научил на търпение, ще откриеш в нея много повече неща за смях, отколкото за плач."
The longer pieces in this collection, mostly set in Samoa and Malaysia ('Rain', 'The Fall of Edward Barnard', 'Mackintosh' etc) are absolutely fantastic, better - in my opinion - than either of the two Maugham novels I've read so far. The shorter, first person 'anecdotes' I found to be more of a mixed bag: some work well; most felt rather inconsequential. On the whole though I'm very much looking forward to reading Volume 2.
There are quite a few short stories in this collection by an author who likes to show that people are not perfect. Are flaws make us who we are and the author uses that to tell some great stories.
It was disgraceful and I didn't like it.- The Point of Honour* - sad but very human story about a couple and how the husband was to keep the honour of their name.- The Poet** - again a story with a surprising and outrageously funny end, about meeting a famous poet.- The Mother - about a man whose mother is a murderer and she murdered out of love for her son.
A good story, bit others I liked more.- The Promise - the sad story of a lady who always dumped her boyfriends and now finds herself in a funny situation.
I've cut some out my English-reading teeth on Somerset Maugham's short stories, a long time ago in high school.
I've always been fond of the short story, especially the one with a punch in the end, and these absolutely deliver.
Of course, some seem different now, read with eyes that are 20+ years older, but overall it's still a very good mix.
I particularly like the atmosphere of the British colonies that he evokes, little towns in Borneo and the South Seas, and the expatriates' longing for home and struggling with their adoptive exotic lands are sentiments that I can partially understand better now, after having moved country twice myself.
There was a time, not so long ago, when choosing a book for that compulsory assignment wasn't a pretty difficult task.
Not only do they represent the fact of there being set in remote isles of the giant but also like the great ocean, the soul of man is inconstant and uncertain.
In all his works Somerset Maugham expounds on the vagaries of human nature, sometimes beyond comprehension of common sense.
The most striking thing about his works is the fact that he like most of us, looks for answers to comprehend the most complex of all things : human behaviour.
The conclusion, however, as with a great deal of these stories, looms over the page without any obscurity.A Man From Glasgow is essentially a horror story, and seems out of place in the collection.
Many of these stories are secondhand, that is, stories of other people telling stories.Before the Party has a twist, like so many of the others, but this one is the most entertaining and most satisfying.
A mostly unsatisfying collection, given that twenty-four out of thirty stories had little to no impact on me.
His description are so vivid , that I still remember that characters of the story, though I have never read it after that.
Somehow, while he was one of my top rated authors, I could not chance to read many of his works.
I always regard short story writing to be a tougher than writing novels.
In a novel, one has the luxury to fill in the middle.
The short story has very little in the middle.
I just read it and close my eyes and can very well draw a picture of the character.
This collection is a good mixture of stories written throughout Maugham's life, so you can get a feel for how his writing was during different periods of his life.
Rain is the first story in this collection, and the best short story he's ever written.
There are some interesting ones about British expatriates in France written during the period of his writing where I'm fairly sure the first person perspective in these stories is Maugham himself.
I wouldn't be surprised to learn many of these people in his stories were based on real people he met in those places while on holiday.
Looking through the bookshelves for something to read, I came across a well-thumbed copy of the short stories of Somerset Maugham.
Though Maugham's works never reached the ranks of what is considered great literature, I always found his writing to be very elegant.
I have never been satisfied with the various actresses(all fine actresses)that have played Mildred.
To me they have never'been' Mildred.
I think Larry must have been annoying at times,as Sophie said, I could never play Mary Magdelyn to his Jesus Christ.
As Maugham himself described his writing "A good story, well told" so here's to Somerset Maugham and a story well told!
