https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/100366.Neutron_Star
It's given me a good opportunity to assess just how stupid this so-called "hard SF" story is.(view spoiler)[To recap, Beowulf Shaeffer is paid by the Puppeteers, a mysterious and secretive alien race, to take his spaceship to within one mile of the surface of a neutron star.
They in effect give the local curvature of space in terms of tidal forces, i.e. the tendency of closely separated particles to move apart.So we're supposed to believe that the extremely advanced puppeteer civilization doesn't know things about general relativity that any freshman would learn in her first course?
I'm not sure how I missed reading any of the Ringworld series before, but with this being the 40th Anniversary, I figured it was time.
With epic series like this, I usually hit the 'net to see if there's a recommended reading order, or anything that will help me to "get it" a little more easily.
Every site I visited recommended starting with Neutron Star.
This is an anthology of 8 short stories (each novelette length,) set in the universe of Ringworld - the future of humanity.
I'm looking forward to diving into Ringworld next.
Well I could not resist not realising what I was letting myself in for.Anyway this is a series of interconnected stories - if you accept the connection being in the majority the same character or adventures in the same universe, okay rather vague but it works for me.
Either way you meet in this book some of Niven's most famous and long lasting characters and events from the Puppeteers to the Kzin along with the odd Bandersnatchi along the way.
There is no starting point for the tales of Known Space rather its a case of pick a point and start from there - and this book is as good a place as any.
I'd been in the mood to read some classic sci-fi: something distant and cynical, taking place in deep space, where there was fantastic technology and alien races and not many people to mess it all up.
Neutron Star is a collection of short stories from Niven prefacing Ringworld and highly worthwhile if you like the latter.
I'll be re-reading Ringworld soon with these stories in mind.
Plus let this also be a good reminder to just read more Larry Niven.
There aren't many writers so good at picturing real people in fantastic futures.
Plus he's a lot funnier than I think he gets credit for.[Read November 2010.
I’m not fond of Science Fiction in general, except for the ‘known space’ stories by Larry Niven.
Known Space is populated by more than 10 intelligent species, each with its own eccentricities.
My favorites are the puppeteers — extremely smart but ditto cowards — and the Outsiders, who do not need an atmosphere and live by selling information: interesting facts about the galaxy, which they seem to know better than anyone.
Niven has written many stories about known space.
This book was recommended as a good starting point.
The stories themselves are often funny and definitely not to be taken seriously.
Neutron Star is arguably Niven's best Known Space collection, containing stories that appeared over a relatively brief span but introduced a vast array of fantastic puzzles and fabulous stories. Beowulf Schaeffer, a likable rogue who's one of Niven's best characters, appears in many of them, and planets such as Jinx, Down, and Lookitthat provide classic science fiction settings. This is hard sf at its best.
Neutron Star is my favorite short story collection, with quite a few gems from Niven’s Known Space universe. Unfortunately it is out of print. Luckily though, all the Beowulf Shaeffer stories have been republished in Crashlander with the addition of two newer stories.http://www.books.rosboch.net/?p=255
Niven sure has a wild imagination. And a really bad taste for puns, but also some really intellectual humor. His ideas are genius even to this day and age. His science-fiction is so realistic, it's disturbing at times.
Great book of short stories, which I usually don't care for. The difference here, I believe, is that most of the stories relate in some manner or if nothing else they are all set in the same sci-fi universe. Good stuff.
Lees hoe Beowulf Shaeffer wordt overtuigd om dit mysterie op te lossen.Een opgave van de personages en andere bijzonderheden:•	Sonya and Peter Laskin, onderzoekers van het Instituut van de Wetenschap op de planeet Jinx en beide ruimtevaarders.•	2605 Sinclair Intrastelsel ruimteschip.•	APU, Algemene Projecten Unie.•	Sigmund Ausfaller, agent van ARM.•	Poppenspeler Adonis.De volgende tekst is te vinden op de Larry Niven Wiki:BVS-1 was de eerste bekende oude en afgekoelde neutronster.
It stands up well to repeated re-readings.The title story - a Hugo winner - introduces us to star pilot Beowulf Shaeffer (who appears in three other stories in the book, "At the Core," "Flatlander," and "Grendel"), as well as the Puppeteers who also feature in Niven's later Ringworld series.
I particularly enjoyed the Shaeffer stories for the character's voice (told first-person).
The latter is a bit outdated in places, but overall the collection stands up amazingly well.Readers of the Larry Niven-Ed Lerner collaboration Juggler of Worlds will recognize several of these stories, but as told from a completely different perspective.
A collection of early short stories by Larry Niven that take place in his "Known Space" universe (i.e., Ring World). Mostly of a "hard science" sort of story lines, where actual aspects of physics are a part of the plot line. I really enjoyed at least half of the stories in this book. Would recommend for fans of the hared science short stories of Asimov and Clarke.
Some of the great short fiction from Niven's "Known Space" universe - just enough hard science to make you believe this could all happen one day, and more than enough engaging writing to make this a book I read again and again.
what a great way to start my crusade into the ringworld series. i plan on reading all of the books of the known space. Niven seems to have a great knack of telling stories. i enjoyed this book very much
Larry Niven has a great imagination and he is a really nice person. Love his books.
A highly entertaining collection of great sci-fi short stories!
Damn fantastic collection of short stories.This would be a great first book to read if someone is interested in getting into Niven's Known Space universe, but don't know where to begin.
And if you have already read Ringworld or any other Known Space books, this collection is pretty much a must.
You will instantly recognize many of the concepts and much of the lore and canon that is referred to in Ringworld and other Known Space novels, such as the discovery of the Cascading Super Nova chain reaction and the subsequent fleeing of the Puppeteers, and the history of the Slavers and their stasis technology.
I understand that the problem some hove with Niven is that his work is labeled as hard scifi (which I think it mostly is).
But what is the most striking thing in these stories is that Niven really can tell stories!
At the Moment Niven is one of my favourite authors as his books tie together interesting ideas about the future and the universe and on the other hand the stories are really interesting and easy to read.One of the great things is, that even though these stories were published in the 1950's you really can't tell.
Because this exposition is embedded only incidentally within eight fast-paced and ingenious short stories, the reader is never plagued by tedium.
Of course, one can always find minor points to quibble over: Niven, for example, has a frustrating tendency to use names which are unpronounceable, which does slow the reader's pace at times.
But when the story lines are this engaging, such minor flaws are easily ignored.
And while this collection obviously lacks the long-lined story arc of a novel-length work, readers who are looking for compelling sci-fi (mostly) unadulterated by fantastic elements will find this a rewarding read.
Tot nu toe hebben de verhalen de tand des tijds erg goed doorstaan - het is allemaal nog best mogelijk naar de toekomst toe, wat toch al een hele prestatie op zich is.De hoofdpersoon, die toch wel van het vagebond/vrijbuiter type is en het niet zo nauw neemt met de regels, wekt onmiddellijk de sympathie op en zorgt ervoor da tje als lezer echt kan meeleven.Als Larry Niven het gevoel van oneindig vallen in het heelal beschrijft, houd je je onwillekeurig vast aan je stoel.
Topper voor de liefhebbers van klassieke Sci-Fi, een werk dat het genre mee bepaalt.
Unexpectedly brilliantI got a few pages in and was having a hard time getting into it so set it aside for awhile. Then I picked it up again and realized how much depth there was to it. A series of interconnected stories with crazy ends to some parts of it. The ending itself was enjoyable and I can't help wishing there was more. However, I find danger in prequels and sequels. Frankly, this work stands on its own and has no need for more. It just makes me want more.
Neutron Star is a collection of short stories that are the ground floor for Niven's "Known Space" series. This is a nicely rounded set of stories. Niven is known as a "hard science" writer, and it shows in a couple of these stories. They seemed like a thinly veiled science article, even those however were quite entertaining.
(Fun fact: this was later adapted into an episode of the Star Trek Animated Series, "The Slaver Weapon" with Spock taking on the role of Nessus)Flatlander 4/5Really interesting view of future Earth culture interspersed by some nice romance, leading into interaction with the Outsiders and the revelation of a mystery planet’s secret that results in a General Products hull failure – (view spoiler)[It’s a planet made of antimatter, which is theoretically possible but has never been observed  (hide spoiler)].
Niven manages to take this rather highbrow idea and hook it into a tense, exciting story filled with both action and literary merit.The Handicapped 5/5Does a great job explaining the backstory of the Slavers and the fallout of their galaxy-wide war, while also exploring the idea of the inevitable decay of power over time.
i've read other works by Niven and loved them. It was cool to read one of his earliest works when he was developing his universe. Puppeteers, Kzin, etc. Now to figure out what i am going to tackle next from his vast selection...
"Neutron Star": 3/5"A Relic of the Empire": 3/5
I'd forgotten just how much I like classic Niven
Loved these!
I just really enjoy Larry Niven's writing style, and these short stories are excellent examples of it. Someday I really should try to read his series.
Wonderful science backed science fiction.
Non c'è rassicurazione in nessun angolo della galassia, solo continuo movimento.
