https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/13596166-joyland

Why would you need to apologize to me?A: I’m sorry for avoiding your books all of these years and for thinking that you were a one dimensional author who only wrote horror stories.
I’m sorry that it took me so long to discover your wonderful writing and that you didn’t write just horror stories.SK: How did you come to that revelation?A: It was in 2011, when I read some wonderful reviews about your new book 11/22/63.
SK: So glad to hear that you enjoyed 11/22/63.A: I owe you another apology for waiting three years to read another one of your books.
I love this King book!
I had a feeling I might just from reading the synopsis of the book.
I loved the atmosphere of the carnival.
It as to be to a T from the book and it has to have the old time feel when you walk inside the carnival gates.
But he met so many good friends at the carnival.
I wish he could have come and seen him up at the carnival.
It was a turning point in his and a few other lives in the book.
Since HCC needs all the help it can get I’m pretty sure nobody bitched too much when he turned this one in.Devin Jones is a struggling college kid looking for a summer job in 1973, and he lands a position at Joyland, a third rate amusement park in North Carolina.
While Devin is fascinated by the ghost story and has a friend dig up some research on the murder for him there’s really no active effort by him to try and solve the case.
Still, it’s an entertaining tale in an off-beat setting with one of the most famous story tellers of our time.
The most believable thing in this book is the ghost part, but I know the vast majority of you out there did not spend twenty odd years hopping around the United States working in amusement parks like I did, and therefore would not be bothered by the stuff that bugged me, but damn it, he couldn’t have asked a question or two??College student Devin Jones finds himself at loose ends at the close of the school year in 1973.
I know Stephen went on the same assumption that most people do, and that is when a person is hired into an amusement park that person jumps around to all the jobs in the park from day to day.
While never really taking center stage through most of the book, this crime remains a backdrop to the story being told, one that is never forgotten but somehow seems to thrive in the shade, where Jonesy and his new friends are coming of age: it waits quietly, constantly there, carefully camouflaged in shades of fear.
And his little dog Milo too.I like the fact that it was told from a distant perspective, as a recollection of events past, the ones that shaped Dev’s 21st year of life.
After all………When it comes to the past, everyone writes fiction.My goodreads friend Brandon Sears, in his review of this same work, says Stephen King is like literary comfort food.
The “Funhouse Killer” was never discovered and Devin becomes curious about her story and is determined to solve the case.This is the perfect book for people that have been thinking about reading Stephen King, but have never wanted to tackle one of his 600+page novels.
This is also the Stephen King who wrote "The Green Mile" which inspired the movie by the same name.Joyland is not a typical Stephen King book.
This book is not like the typical books Stephen King wrote in the 80''s (or since then).I had not read a Stephen King book in many years prior to picking this book up.
This book is not like the typical books Stephen King wrote in the 80''s (or since then).I had not read a Stephen King book in many years prior to picking this book up.
Stephen King is a fantastic storyteller and he has done a great job telling this story.
4  stars  All you King fans out there are going to read this anyway. Go for it, be a *Rube, its worth the price of admission. For anyone else who's curious about all the kerfuffle over King, maybe test the waters with this. No, it’s not his best but it’s pretty great. It’s short, leans towards paranormal rather than horror in case horror isn’t your thing, and you gotta love that hardcore pulp-fiction cover!Tons of suspense, the mystery of beautiful women being murdered to unravel, a plot that mo
4 ½ stars  All you King fans out there are going to read this anyway.
It’s short, leans towards paranormal rather than horror in case horror isn’t your thing, and you gotta love that hardcore pulp-fiction cover!Tons of suspense, the mystery of beautiful women being murdered to unravel, a plot that moves and characters written with sensitivity, you'll care about them.
Best of all and the star of this novel though– a fabulous 70’s Carny setting.
Not sure what stopped me - ended up picking cherries instead...Reading this I got to live that fantasy vicariously.
Written for the Hard Case Crime line of paperback novels, Stephen King's Joyland may look like a duck -- with its tantalizing pulp cover making promises of sex and violence -- but it definitely doesn't quack.
King has in his hands a paranormal crime plot replete with a garish 1970's amusement park setting haunted by the ghost of a murdered young woman.
This being Hard Case Crime, I was keen to get King's take on hard-boiled noir or just full on pulp.
(hide spoiler)]Still, while it wasn't the novel I wanted or expected, Joyland is a sweet story, a little maudlin in places, but enjoyable nevertheless.
I've been reading Stephen King since I was a child and this book reminds me of his old stuff. It's really good.
When his friend, Tom, does see her ghost, he feels very resentful that he has not.The reader can predict the relationship between the two other characters, and sure enough by the end of the summer Tom and Erin leave as a romantic item, and Devin stays on at the amusement park.
(hide spoiler)]At this point anyone who has read even a few detective novels may feel by now that the story is not worth the telling - unless the reader is particularly interested in the workings of an amusement park in the 1970's.
But what does that have to do with a woman and her dying child that Devin meets walking on a beach?Stephen King throws the Hard Case line another bone with Joyland.
Mostly he works at the carnival, saving a couple lives along the way and meeting a kid with muscular dystrophy that he takes a liking to, as well as his foxy young mother.Stephen King's writing is firing on all cylinders in this one and it's a relief that he wrote a story that's less than 800 pages for once.


This is only the second Stephen King book I've ever read, other than The Stand.
But then this came out, and it was a mystery, or at least marketed as such, and so I figured I'd give it a try.It isn't really about the mystery, though, and others have noted it.
The main character works at Joyland, an amusement (not theme - King is careful about the difference) park one summer in the 1970s.
You can read why I came to this decision here.In the meantime, you can read the entire review at Smorgasbook
Number two on the list was Bentley Little's THE INFLUENCE, and though I hadn't (and still haven't, if I'm being honest) read Little's book, I'm familiar with Little's writing and was delighted to be included on the same list as he was.
When I learned that Pod of Horror named Stephen King's JOYLAND the best horror novel of 2013, I wasn't at all surprised.
No. I share all that because I was incredibly honored to be uttered in the same breath with my writing hero, and I HADN'T EVEN READ THIS NOVEL YET.
I don't mind it when folks criticize Stephen King.
So when the opportunity for the summer job at the carnival park Joyland where they only sold fun came up, Dev tried for it and was successful.
And when Dev stayed on at the park after the summer ended, then met Annie and Mike, he found he was enjoying the life.
But it was his deepening interest in the murder of a young woman at the park some four years previously which had never been solved that changed Dev’s life in an unforeseeable manner…Joyland by Stephen King is an entertaining murder mystery, but I couldn’t classify it as horror, even though I had done, prior to reading.
Not my favorite King novel but it was still a good time! V atmospheric and spooky
Except this time, the experience was so terrible, so infuriating, that I officially will never again read, or pick up, a Stephen King novel.“Joyride” is laughably published by Hard Case Crime, a line of books that publishes, yes, hard boiled noir.
There’s probably more – I haven’t read them all, and I’m not going to go look up what other novels/short stories have a writer for a main character, but looking at that list, it’s a lot.It’s shockingly lazy characterisation from King – fans of his often cite his ability to create meaningful and involving characters and yet so often he doesn’t even try creating original ones.
É o segundo livro do Stephen que leio nesse formato de "o protagonista já está velho, contando a sua história", e acho isso bem bacana (apesar de tirar um pouco da tensão no sentido de tipo: SERÁ QUE ELE VAI MORRER?).Gostei muito como o foco acabou sendo em várias situações ao mesmo tempo: o assassinato de Linda, o fantasma dela, o menino na cadeira de rodas, e todas as outras traminhas pequenas ao redor.
Achei muito bem feito, e inclusive tive aquela sensação de "não sou só eu que sou assim", ao ver algumas coisas em comum com o protagonista.Acredito que tenha sido o primeiro livro do King que realmente me fez mergulhar no mundo.
In exchange for the hard-earned dollars of your customers, you will parcel out happiness".Joyland sees the King enter for the second time the realms of the hard case crime series and another digression from the horror stories we know and love.Told completely in first person, Devin Jones a college student back in 1973, gets a summer job at the amusement park Joyland and soon meets a multitude of characters from the world of the Carny.
You can't save everyone.  I was tempted to add some new category shelves for this review because the ones I am using don't quite fit the type of retro-reflective, not-really-coming-of-age-but-more-of-a-late-blooming type of read which I experienced. Maybe I should add crime or murder or something, but if I said this was a crime novel, or even a murder mystery, I'd sort of only be giving you part of the picture here.Devin (Dev) is on the path to discovering himself in the summer of 1970-whateve
I'm not sure what the name Joyland had to do with dogs but who cares?So much of this story was about Dev growing up and experiencing life (then later in life reflecting back on it) that I almost wondered why there was even a murder mystery involved, or why people were seeing ghosts.But as tales often do, everything comes full circle, and solving the mystery brought people close together in a way which got me emotional toward the end.
I actually forgot partway through the book to even think about solving a mystery.
Even the old-time amusement park setting didn’t really hook me.
Or maybe I’ve been to one too many amusement parks with a few years of this sort of “entertainment” still on the horizon until my kids have grown up and can go on their own.
I thought Joyland park would prove to be a creepy setting, but somehow it didn’t.
I gave this book 3 stars, which means it was good, I just didn’t love it.
Oh - I did shift in my seat a bit near the very end of the novel; however, I did sleep okay that night.
Watch Stephen King Talking about This book on Today show now @ http://more2read.com/review/joyland-by-stephen-king/ 'Work close to heaven!' That was the advertisement that Mr Devin Jones one Summer reacted to, and this stand up guy at the age of twenty one was soon to become Howie the Happy Hound suited up in Hound attire doing the Hokey Pokey dance with kids at Joyland, a fun amusement park, a place where fun was lived out in its highs of rides and pitch darkness of the Horror House.There is un

I couldn't put Joyland down.
The noir, crime-solving aspect was almost an afterthought to this interesting tale of life working at an amusement park.If you have fond memories of a summer job where you almost spoke a different language with your co-workers and really bonded, possibly even for life, this book is certainly for you.
I worked as a lifeguard for a couple summers and it brought back fond memories of messing with the rubes (I'm officially only speaking in Carny Talk).
Good times!Joyland is full of nostalgia and some really sweet moments that had me tearing up.
Man kann von ihm nicht satt werden, er ist das personifizierte Joyland of Storytelling.
Wünschen würde ich ihm aber, dass er trotz verzweifelter Suche nach den Schauermomenten, erkennt, wie gut das Buch geschrieben ist.
Devin lernt auch die reservierte Nachbarin Annie mit ihrem zehnjährigen Sohn Mike kennen, der aufgrund einer Muskelschwäche im Rollstuhl sitzt und weiß, dass er nicht mehr lange zu leben hat.
Annie konnte trotz Ängste um den Sohn überzeugt werden, dass ein Besuch mit Mike in Joyland eine tolle Sache sei.
Sie steigen gerade in ein Fahrgeschäft ein, Mike darf vorne sitzen:Annie und ich setzten uns in einen der Wagen.

Lo voy a decir con todo el orgullo que me produce el hecho de que un autor haya despertado algo tan profundo en mi, y haya tocado algo tan sensible: lloré como pocas veces.
Será medio confuso para quienes aún no han leído el libro, porque sí, es terror, es de crímenes, pero su historia va un poco más allá de eso también con algunos momentos emotivos que hacen que uno se encariñe al instante de los personajes.
Una historia hermosa, definitivamente lo releería mil veces más porque disfruté cada página de este buen libro.
Y para todo aquél que se atrevió a decir que King ya no hace cosas buenas, aparentemente no leyó Joyland.
He will find lifelong friends, suffer his first heartbreak, discover love in many different forms and be haunted by an unsolved murder that took place on Joyland’s grounds.If I pretend for one moment I had never heard of Stephen King, I still would have wanted to read this novel.
Of course, I HAVE heard of King and, like so many others, have read almost everything he’s written.
Oh how I love a book that’s so schizophrenic it cannot be categorized.I also love when Stephen King just tells me a good story.
