https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/31196.The_Razor_s_Edge
To the mounting insecurity of Isabel's mother and uncle, the boy has turned down offers for work.Accepting a dinner invitation from Elliott at his sister's the following evening, Maugham is seated next to a drab seventeen year old girl whose shyness belies shrewdness and intelligence; the playwright gets her to open up by asking her who everyone else at the table is and much later in the book, will come to know this doomed girl as Sophie Macdonald.
570. The Razor’s Edge – William Somerset MaughamThe Razor's Edge is a novel by W. Somerset Maugham. The book was first published in 1944. It tells the story of Larry Darrell, an American pilot traumatized by his experiences in World War I, who sets off in search of some transcendent meaning in his life. The story begins through the eyes of Larry's friends and acquaintances as they witness his personality change after the War. His rejection of conventional life and search for meaningful experienc
The book was twice adapted into film, first in 1946 starring Tyrone Power and Gene Tierney, and Herbert Marshall as Maugham and Anne Baxter as Sophie, and then a 1984 adaptation starring Bill Murray.لبه تیغ - ویلیام سامرست موام (فرزان روز) ادبیات؛ تاریخ نخستین خوانش: یکی از روزهای سپتامبر سال 1970 میلادیعنوان: لبه تیغ؛ نویسنده: ویلیام سامرست موام؛ مترجم: مهرداد نبیلی؛ تهران، سازمان کتابهای جیبی، 1341؛ در 142 ص؛ موضوع: داستانهای نویسندگان انگلیسی - سده 20 ملبه تیغ را نویسنده ی انگلیسی «ویلیام سامرست موآم» در سال 1944 میلادی منتشر کرد، رمان درباره ی جوانی ست به نام: «لاری»؛ که درآمد ناچیزی دارد، و از زندگی خویش خشنود است، او در جستجوی یافتن پاسخ پرسشهای خویش است، لاری میخواهد بداند غایت زندگی چیست.
The author narrates the tale of a man who is in search of the true meanings of life by turning down opportunities and taking up a "road less taken" lifestyle.
After returning from war, he was so changed with his perspectives about life that leaving his fiancée and the opportunities of an affluent lifestyle he sets on a journey in search of the truth regarding the life.
The book dwells on some major concepts of Advaita Vedānta Philosophy and Maugham’s lucid narrative combined with his clever style of placing himself inside the story as a narrator and taking the story forward by focusing on people around Larry and sketching their reactions on the changes that occur in Larry’s lifestyle makes this a fantastic book to read.
This has to be the most endearing and accessible of Maugham's books. With the right smattering of philosophy and literary techniques to keep one challenged too.It has been one of the defining books in my life.
Isabel Bradley, Larry's faithful fiancee notices the alteration .When his best friend Gay Maturin, gets his millionaire father Henry to offer his pal a good job.
Doing interviews with the local newspapers, Maugham gets an invitation to have lunch with Elliott Templeton, an old friend and Isabel's rich uncle.
Elliott lives in Paris and comes home to see his family, Maugham the great writer, resides mostly in France too.
Everyone there tells the veteran, be smart, be a man and sell bonds...Larry is suffering from war shock...
What I cannot forgive is this:I feel it right to warn the reader that he can very well skip this chapter without losing the thread of such story as I have to tell, since for the most part it is nothing more than the account of a conversation that I had with Larry.
Well of course I have to read it now that you’ve said “(blah blah blah) except for this conversation I should perhaps not have thought it worth while to write this book.” But good God man, I wish I hadn’t.
I think Maugham got confused for a moment there and thought he was Hermann Hesse.
It deals, as is the case with so many writers’ oeuvres, with many of the same themes and issues as the first book and most of his subsequent work.A critic reviewing The Razor’s Edge today would likely fault the author for choosing to write the story from his own first-person point of view.
The fashion today is for first-person narratives, it’s true, but Maugham uses a narrative device…the story told to the narrator by others…very much out of fashion in today’s world.
The Razor’s Edge is a pleasant journey in the company of interesting people.
Larry Darrell, the saint of this book, just doesn't seem human or interesting.
The female cast of characters can pretty much be summed up as a gay man's view of women (Maugham was bisexual, I think, but leaned more towards men) Not terribly flattering or fleshed out to say the least.Women reading this book should glean three lessons from it: 1)It's not much fun to date a saint unless you get a kick out of living like a hobo and discussing 16th century mystics late into the night.
(2) Don't stay engaged to a man who won't tell you where he lives.
Isabel, his finance, is a member of Chicago high society who finds Larry's lack of interest in life troubling.Grey, Larry's good friend and a successful stock broker, is loyal to Larry despite his secret love for Isabel.Sound like a soap opera?
Told from the first person by Maugham himself, who runs into Larry every few years over a twenty-year period, this is the story of one man's successful search for the meaning of life.The writing is so simple and crystal it's almost lyrical.
The characters are so lifelike you feel like you know them personally.
Self-sacrifice, the most "overwhelming" of human "passions." From film version, 1984the path to Salvation is as difficult to pass over as the "sharp edge of a razor." This novel of Larry Darrell's spiritual journey struck me hardest with Maugham's valuable instruction on how self-sacrifice to "save" another is greater than any other human passion.
If either of these conditions is absent, the ultimate crash (commitment, prison or death) will crush the would-be savior who deceived herself into believing in her own miraculous powers, and ignored the truth that some people are constitutionally incapable of attaining an honesty that they have a problem and they need help, or they suffer from some mental disorder.After protagonist Larry is severely affected by the death of a fellow soldier in WW I, he does much traveling over continents, experiencing different religions as he comes to several self-realizations.
This is my brother Darrell, and my other brother Darell.”) Larry was a World War I pilot who is driving Isabel’s family crazy with his continued refusal to get a job and start grabbing some of that postwar prosperity that the rest of America is cashing in on.Over the course of the next two decades, Maugham will learn the story of Larry and Isabel from updates by Elliot and chance encounters with the people involved.
دلم میخواد مثل لری تو یه خونه کوچیک زندگی کنم، کتاب بخونم و با آرامش زندگیمو پیش ببرم.
هر وقتم که دچار روزمرگی شدم،کوله پشتیمو بردارم؛ از کشوری به کشور دیگه برم؛ از فرانسه و آلمان بگذرم، کوه ها و روستا هارو پشت سر بذارم و از شهرای متمدن عبور کنم و به هند،مهد عرفان برسم.دیدن فرهنگ های مختلف و انسانهای رنگارنگ و خوندن کتابها هر انسانی رو به جواب سوالش نزدیک میکنه همان چیزی که باعث شد لریو از یه زندگی معقولانه دور کنه.
"زندگى روى هم رفته جهنم است؛ اما اگر آدم تا آنجايى كه مى تواند، از آن لذت نبرد، خيلى احمق است."شرح چ
‏"زندگى روى هم رفته جهنم است؛ اما اگر آدم تا آنجايى كه مى تواند، از آن لذت نبرد، خيلى احمق است."‏شرح چند زندگىاين داستان -كه بر اساس وقايع و شخصيت هاى حقيقى كه موام در زندگى اش با آنها مواجه بوده، نوشته شده- مجموعه اى ست از سير زندگى چند شخصيت كه نويسنده به شكل موازى آنها را دنبال مى كند، اگرچه تمام اين شخصيت ها در ابتدا در يك كادر و تصوير به نمايش در مى آيند و به تدريج كه نويسنده وارد زندگى شخصى شان مى شود، سير داستانى مخصوص به خود را مى يابند.‏"-در رم كه بودم، تابوت سنگى كهنه اى را ديدم كه از آن خيلى خوشم آمد و مدتى به فكر خريدن آن بودم.
Maugham doubles as the narrator and as one of the cast (a writer), and through his narration, readers are engaged with the intertwining stories of the various characters, who move between post-WWI Europe, America and India.Isabel and Larry, two young American lovers who have known each other from childhood, discover the unbridgeable gulf between them before it’s too late, and break off their engagement.
With her eyes set upon having an easy and well-provided-for life, Isabel marries a local wealthy heir, Gray, who adores her, but in her heart she can’t let go of penniless Larry.
Larry, having witnessed his best friend killed in war trying to save him, goes off on a prolonged knapsack journey to Europe and then to India in quest for the true meaning of life.
Το "Η κόψη του ξυραφιού" είναι μια άκρως ενδιαφέρουσα ιστορία σχετικά με τον ανολοκλήρωτο έρωτα, τα ανθρώπινα πάθη αλλά και την αναζήτηση του νοήματος της ζωής...Ο Λάρυ Ντάρελ είναι ένας φτωχός νεαρός Αμερικανός, ο οποίος μετά το τέλος του ΑΠΠ όπου είχε πολεμήσει ως αεροπόρος, προσπαθεί να ξεπεράσει το μετατραυματικό στρες μιας τρομακτικής εμπειρίας που συγκλόνισε τον συναισθηματικό του κόσμο.
Παράλληλα προσπαθεί αν ισορροπήσει την σχέση του με την Ισαβέλλα, μια κοπέλα διαφορετικής κοινωνικής τάξης της οποίας ο σνομπ θείος Έλιοτ έχει σοβαρές αντιρρήσεις για τον δεσμό τους.
Σαν Κορυφαίους του χορού σε αρχαία ελληνική τραγωδία ο συγγραφέας συνομιλεί με τους πρωταγωνιστές του, συμπάσχει και διαγράφει μια πορεία μέσα από τις ζωές τους...
Chatty, erudite, engrossing and thoroughly entertaining.W. Somerset Maugham’s 1944 publication, called by many his most ambitious work, centers around a group of friends from Chicago whose lives are chronicled by the narrator over a period of more than twenty years from before the first World War, though the Great Depression and after World War II.The most stimulating character is Larry Darrell, whose journey towards enlightenment is almost Hessian in its eloquence and single-mindedness.
Maugham does not let Elliot down either, but this is a part of the story I will not divulge other than to say that the episode will surely make you smile.I would like to tell you more about each character, but doing so would decrease one’s enjoyment of the book.
You do not get pulled in as you might otherwise.A person may read The Razor's Edge for its philosophical and religious content, for its themes focusing upon snobbism, pursuit of happiness and some individuals’ self-destructive tendencies, but what I enjoyed most was how Maugham’s knowledge of art, poetry, literature and European culture, traditions, sites and places, particularly those in France, are woven into the story.The audiobook I listened to was narrated by Gordon Griffin.
Poucos se livram, nas suas decisões, de ter em conta as expectativas dos familiares, ou de tentar corresponder ao que é correto aos olhos de uma sociedade que não perdoa desvios.Ou por outro lado, devemos cortar amarras e partir numa jornada em busca de nós mesmos, defendendo os valores que queremos preservar?
Sem formar juízos, vai questionando e ajudando -por vezes, forçando mesmo- cada um deles a obter respostas e a assumir posições.Numa linguagem clara a fluente, não é uma leitura que nos cause grandes sobressaltos, mas exige reflexão e deixa mais perguntas que respostas.
It made me examine the life I have lived and wonder if I couldn't have gotten more out of it if I had been bolder or less worried.
Can a man ever identify and know God?The Maugham who is a character in this book is only an observer, no wiser than the others, unable to give us the answers and willing to accept the failures.
In the hands of God, who might reveal it to us at the moment of our deaths or might send us back to strive again and again until we have gotten it right.
This book is just a wonderful delight, amusing & serious at the same time, filled with Maugham's warm, wonderful observations of people.
Loved him, lol!) As the book closes, Maugham writes,"But as I was finishing this book, uneasily conscious that I must leave my reader in the air and seeing no way to avoid it, I looked back with my mind's eye on my long narrative to see if there was any way in which I could devise a more satisfactory ending; and to my intense surprise it dawned upon me that without the least intending to I had written nothing more or less than a success story."Unlike so many books with "big" events or sad or shocking events used as literary devices, this one is similar to life with a warmth & love of humanity that infuses the characters with more good than bad, events with overall hope, and a pleasant ending.
É interessante ver como a vida de Larry se modifica totalmente e como contrasta com a dos seus amigos de infância, como alterna de experiência em experiência de forma a procurar o verdadeiro sentido da vida.
O autor tem uma escrita muito fluida e divertida, sendo rápido de ler.No final do livro há um capítulo na minha opinião excessivamente expositivo e demasiado filosófico que quebra um pouco com o resto do estilo em que está escrito.
Um clássico excelente que aconselho a todos!
So let me start with a few of the reasons why I shouldn't have liked this book.-I usually prefer contemporary fiction.-The Americans are, for the most part, sad, sad characters.
Gray was somewhat single minded about work.-The level of detail used to describe the three main cities, Chicago, Paris, and London, went a long way to prove that Maugham spent very little time in Chicago, which is, of course, his loss.-Two people told me how good it was.
All in all, this was a tremendous read which I would recommend to just about everyone, unless of course your favorite book is the da vince code.

In the hands of most authors, this book would focus on Larry, the young man who abandons a life of privilege to seek enlightenment and meaning after terrible experiences in the Great War. His fiancee, who breaks her engagement with him when she realizes that his priorities will never be worldly, would be the villain, an example of how foolish and narrow-minded Society can be.
To be perfectly frank, I can't think of another male author (of Maugham's era or before) who understood that not everyone can live on sensibility; that supporting an artist or a saint is all and very well, but there's more to life than being someone's adoring crutch.
آیا بتهوون برای این سمفونی هایش را می ساخت که ستایشش کنند؟ من که باور نمی کنم.
به عقیده ی من، او آن ها را ساخت چون موسیقی درون روحش نیاز به تجلی داشت و یگانه کاری که کرد این بود که تا می تواند آن ها را به کمال برساند."موآم در اول کتابش میگه همه چیز بر اساس واقعیته و به هیچ عنوان سعی نکرده از خودش بال و پر بده به داستان و فکر می کنم به همین خاطره که بخش زیادی از رمان صرف توصیف الیوت و مهمانی هاش شده و از جزییات زندگی شخصیت اصلی رمان، حرف زیادی نزده!
Maugham appears as the narrator in this story of Larry Darrel, a young American who lied about his age to be able to become an airman in the first World War. After a traumatic experience there he no longer wishes to satisfy the expectations of his friends and join his schoolmate Gray's father's brokerage company, or indeed any other reasonable form of earning a living.
Isabel, his shallow, mercenary fiancee gives him two years in Paris to get this strange idea out of his system: he embarks on a course of reading, and when Isabel comes to bring him home, he proposes that she should join him on his journey of self-discovery: but she likes the lifestyle that she has always enjoyed and finds his little room nothing but sordid.
After some rather traumatic experiences as a fighter pilot in WW I, American Larry Darrell relocates to France, where he dedicates himself to a life of learning and seeking.
Stylistically, Maugham employs a very innovative approach - rather than focusing on the changes that occur directly in Darrell's life, the narrative follows how others react to Larry's continual tranformation.If you don't wish to spend the time reading this, the 1984 film version (starring Bill Murray in one of his first dramatic roles) is fantastic, and very faithful to the novel.
نکته جالب کتاب این بود که راوی، خودِ نویسنده بود و خودش در بیشتر ماجراها حضور داشته.
این رمان هم مانند دیگر آثارنویسنده، تاکید بر "اسارت بشری" دارد.
"لاری" جوانی آمریکایی و بسیار دوست داشتنی است که بعد از شرکت در جنگ و کشته شدن یکی از هم رزمانش به خاطر نجات جان او، با سوالات اساسی در مورد هدف زندگی رو به رو شده وهیچ موضوعی حتی نامزدی با دختر موردعلاقه اش ذهن او را از جستجو برای پیدا کردن جواب سوالاتش دور نمی کندمن این کتاب رو با ترجمه مهرداد نبیلی که توسط نشر فرزان روز چاپ شده، خوندم.
In part this is a book about opposites attracting (a theme Maugham is quite fond of), and it would be hard to find two people quite as opposite as this young man and the woman who spends the rest of her life loving him – in her own special way.
Better than that, even.Some of my Good Reads friends have said in their reviews that this was a better book than Of Human Bondage – I didn’t find that to be the case.
If I’d been God I couldn’t have brought myself to condemn one of them, not even the worst, to eternal damnation.”If I say, in the end, it wasn’t quite Of Human Bondage for me, or The Moon and Sixpence, or The Painted Veil, that’s like saying this one rich meal was less rich than the others just because it wasn’t the first.
One of her most amiable traits was that she was never affronted by the naked truth.”And I think he’d like me for saying this: Maugham, you son of a bitch.
