https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/368118.Way_to_Wisdom
To philosophize is then at once to learn how to live and to know how to die. Because of the uncertainty of temporal existence life is always an experiment. Only transcendence can make this questionable life good, the world beautiful, and existence itself a fulfilment.If to philosophize is to learn how to die, then we must learn how to die in order to lead a good life.
As Jaspers explains his idea of the encompassing and the (earlier in philosophy long discussed) subject-object form of reality itself, the reason of this shines through the darkness of the topic - it is that which is splitting into a subject-object form that Jaspers is describing, which leads to the conclusion that it is not an object at all, thus indescribable.
It's the root of reality, and we, as self-conscious and highly intelligent beings, are able to consciously grasp the encompassing, existence, Being in ourselves through experience.
His emphasis on Christian theology may be off-putting to some; at the same time, Jaspers is perhaps most well-known for developing the concept of the Axial Age of philosophic inquiry, when cultures around the world independently and simultaneously began to question tradition and talk about people as if we can do wonderful, terrible, and amazing things in the world - whether we place ourselves in the lineage of Greek heroes, Confucian scholars, or Persian mystics.
I have to state that the only section that felt remotely like a proper "introduction to philosophy" was the second appendix, "On Reading Philosophy".
As it is, I really wouldn't recommend this work as an introduction to the topic of philosophy and free thinking.Being an atheist myself, I expected this book to be reasonably unbiased, but it struck me early on as a pamphlet on philosophical theocentrism, although camouflaged as it turns out to be in this particular case.
The latter turned out to be the section I mostly enjoyed, and this actually saddened me because it's not even a part of the main book.
I believe this book represents an accurate understanding of philosophy as a discipline. Jaspers recognises that irrespective of their content as fixed ideas, the great works of philosophy embody an ineffable thread of truth that has to be continually reinterpreted by successive readers, in the same way that a musical masterpiece or Shakespeare's plays must be reinterpreted in performance. This derives from their participation in a more fundamental universal truth about the human condition.
No matter your personal philosophical beliefs, this book will open your eyes and give you a new perspective on philosophy. Love this book.
J'écrirai plus ultérieurement, mais mon impression à chaud est la suivante. Ce que je n'ai pas saisi et qui est central au livre est le lien entre liberté et transcendance qui semble évidente pour Jaspers, qui ne l'est pas pour moi.Mais ce livre est magnifique, très profond. L'idée que la philosophie se trouve dans le domaine du ''non savoir'' me fait réfléchir depuis que je l'ai lu et m'intéresse beaucoup.Le chapitre sur la relation sujet/objet et sur l'englobant sont intéressants aussi.
A bit too much theology. Good insight: we have to read every book - at first - as if everything in it is true.
An alright introduction into philosophy (albeit biased by being Jasper's understanding of philosophy).And this is where I might hesitate to hand this to someone new to philosophy. Overall Jaspers lays out a clear way, but it leads to some potential pitfalls. Especially the appended section "On Reading Philosophy." This section is so very biased in its descriptions of the history of philosophy that it hurts.
Блестящ труд, който, въпреки малкия си обем, силно утвърждава стремежа на читателя да се занимава с философия. Дори изпитвам яд и съжаления, че едва сега попаднах на него, но за сметка на това често ще се връщам към развитите от Ясперс тези. Мисълта му е вдъхновяваща, директна и чиста от излишни думи. Вече съм се снабдил и с други негови текстове, които нямам търпение да подхвана.
Stil better story than Twilight
Highly recommended. Less as an overview of Philosophy and as (one of many) possible starting points for thinking about important questions and how some others have addressed them.
Great for the beginnig in Philosophy ! :)
