https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/11925514-code-name-verity
Page 2: DAMN this book is good.Page 25: GODDAMN this book is good.Page 60: This may be the best WW II novel I've ever read.
This could get uncomfortable.Page 200: *THUMP* "Um, Katie, you OK up there?" "...
I just fell out of bed."Page 233: *THUMP* "Um, did you just ...?" "...
Shut up."(I read the rest of the book over the course of the evening and since I am not pro-spoiler I will not continue with the emotional roller coaster except to say that there was one.)(Also, READ THIS BOOK.
I have a feeling I'm not going to be very popular by posting this review, everyone seems to love this book so far and I feel more disappointed in myself and my tastes than the novel or the author. Code Name Verity is one of those books that are the reason why I created the shelf its-me-not-you. I mentioned this very recently in my review of The Book Of Blood And Shadow and it is also similar to the experience I had trying to read The Book Thief and Feed. I just found 90% of the book long-winded
This book is not very plot-focused or fast-paced, it's about conversations and people and female pilots during the second world war, which would all have been great if it had been balanced out with a touch of drama.I cannot tell you just how much I wanted to like this.
If you read the author's note at the end she will tell you that this book is actually meant to be about pilots:"This book started off rather simply as a portrait of an Air Transport Auxiliary pilot.
Being a woman and a pilot myself, I wanted to explore the possibilities that would have been open to me during the second world war."And not enough else was brought in.
The characters either don’t feel like real people to me, or they feel like modern people to me.
If an author can make me gasp THREE TIMES, either the author is making me read their novel underwater or it’s really cleverly done.
When was the last time I read a three gasper?
Sort of like BETWEEN SHADES OF GRAY, which I also loved, but would never read again because of how hard it was.
This book, on the other hand — not only does it have so many lovely and sweeping moments, but it’s also surprisingly funny.
My final foray into World War II territory (for now, anyway) is Elizabeth Wein's Code Name Verity, a young adult novel which really defies description, but I'll try.
At its heart, Code Name Verity is the story of two young British women, Maddie and Queenie (or Julie), who undertake a secret mission behind enemy lines in Occupied France in 1943.
By turns heartrendingly sad and fiercely uplifting, Code Name Verity is the best YA book I've read in a long, long time.
If you like historical fiction, or spy thrillers, or just books that constantly surprise you with, "OH MY GOD, THAT'S WHAT'S GOING ON???" moments, you should really read this.
Cameo by Holly the waitress/witch from True Blood playing a waitress.)I'm usually Elaine in these situations, so I worried a little bit after reading glowing review after glowing review of Code Name Verity.
I did get a love story, but not the one I dreaded/expected."It's like being in love, discovering your best friend."The friendship between Queenie and Maddie, two people from different backgrounds who wouldn't have met under ordinary circumstances, is one that I loved reading.
Her intelligence and boldness comes through the page, and Wein's writing exemplifies the principle of "show, don't tell." I loved this story of war, camaraderie, and sacrifice.
She has been spying for the Allies, so her prospects for a long life are dim.Verity tells the tale of her involvement with the British war effort, spiced with bits of information about airplane types and airfield names to keep the Nazis at bay.
The two girls come from different walks of life and have different talents and interests, but as they are periodically thrown together during the war they find that they are kindred souls.It's like being in love, discovering your best friend.This book also shows so many different faces of heroism, sometimes in heartbreaking ways.
Code Name Verity is a story about two best friends, Maddie and Queenie, fighting in World War II.
I don’t know what I expected, but he just looked like anybody - like the sort of chap who would come into the shop and buy a motorbike for his lad’s 16th birthday – like your headmaster.Our story starts when Queenie gets captured by the Gestapo in France.
Queenie tells her present story in first person, but switches to third person and focuses on Maddie every time she talks about the past.
One of two books this year to make me cry--I mean, tears-pouring-down-my-face cry. Queenie and Maddie are the best character duo ever. Oh god, my heart still hurts.
The first thing I did after I finished reading this book was to pick up my phone and text my best friend, who I have known since I was eleven and has been there through every single one of my problems and ill-advised fringes, and tell her that I loved her.The second thing I did after I finished reading this book was flip back to the beginning and start reading it again.
3.75⭐“It’s like being in love, discovering your best friend.”This is distressing. I am very distraught. I did not like this book as much as I’d hoped and it breaks my heart. I'm aware that we can't love every book we read and you may think it a tad dramatic of me to say these things but WWII historical fiction is a (sub) genre that I've rarely been let down by. If ever.This had all the makings of a potential favourite yet somehow missed the mark. I'm still reeling from it.Set in the turmoil of t
I was frustrated by how difficult it was to grasp why certain things were happening, such as the interview with an American journalist, or even why Maddie and Julie spent a whole day trying to cycle to a café in the rain.The second half of the story shed so much light on almost all of the puzzles and I got more into the story as the book went on.Needless to say, I was absolutely unprepared for the ending.
Still.As much as I enjoyed the latter half, I wish I love the book as a whole because I feel like I've missed out on certain things that would have enhanced my reading experience more.
3. you won't understand how on earth elizabeth wein could possibly have come up with something like this and you will worship her with abandon until you read the author's note at the end (don't read it until you finish!), at which point you will still worship her but at least you will have a sense of how she came up with this.
4. you won't know this is the reason, but the fact that this is a story of women that's also a story of war, torture, weapons, airplanes, piloting, motorcycles, and lots of mechanical things will keep you off balance the whole time.
Their mission to German occupied France goes awry and Kittyhawk is forced to make a crash landing and Verity has to parachute out.
The 1st half of the story is told by Verity who has been captured by the Nazis and is armed with a pencil and paper forced to disclose codes.
What becomes her ‘dissertation of treason’ is a narrative of how the 2 friends met and the value of that friendship.
The 2nd half of the story is told by Kittyhawk and her own ordeal as she was hidden by the french resistance and sought information that Verity was still alive.
i loved this book, don't get me wrong. it has great characters and is well-researched and detailed and every scene comes alive and pops with tension and it also has all that slippery writing that i really appreciate. but how fans are practically burning effigies of veronica roth for the feels she made them feel or whatever, while this book is Beloved By All is beyond me. this book definitely has more problematic feels.but - a great book, which will not be ruined by me with a more detailed review; careless talk costs lives and all...
What an absolutely incredible book. I'm honestly speechless. Video review to come.
I am quite surprised this novel got as many 5-star reviews as it did, because this book requires its reader to have a fair amount of interest in piloting, even before he/she can start appreciating the writing itself. In short, the things that Code Name Verity is about - pilots, planes, radios, engineering, war - are the things I evidently have no interest in. Or, alternatively, it's written in a not very engaging way. Surprised this is so well received, very surprised.
this was a wonderful story about friendship, courage, and everything in between. and while i cant say this was one of my favourite WWII stories ive read, it also wasnt like anything i have read before. the story is told in a letter/note format, and i think that is what helped make the story feel authentic and genuine. my only complaint is that it talked about planes wayyy too much, but im happy i picked this up! 3.5 stars
DNF @ 50%Well the main issue is that this is boring the shit out of me. I meant to put this on my DNF shelf ages ago but I couldn't even be bothered to do that much because that is how bored I was.I doubt I'll ever pick this up in the future but never say never.
WWII brought together two young women on the shores of England – Maddie of Manchester and Queenie of Scotland.
Maddie was a fresh, young pilot and when she was flying Queenie into France, trouble struck.
Writing her account of why she was in France; delivering coded secrets; laying bare her thoughts – Queenie did all those things, though never willingly.
Queenie was code name Verity; Maddie was code name Kittyhawk.
Those two young women, with families at home – would they ever see the shores of England again?
Code Name Verity by Elizabeth Wein was a gutsy, heart wrenching narration, both by Queenie and Maddie.
I knew lots of people loved it but World War 2 is not my favourite historical period to read about, especially yet another YA book set at that time.
Now I wish I had read it much sooner - it is a beautiful story about amazing characters and it leaves you at the end with a major lump in the throat and quite a few soggy tissues.I was very taken too with the way the author chose to tell the tale, first one character telling events her way and then the other with her different angle.
We all love happy endings but there were not many of them in that war.What a great book!
The first comes with the immediate horror, the guilt, the fear, the trapped-in -a–cell-with-her-torturers-observing-her, no food, no sleep, her ankles tightly bound to the chair, an iron rail tied against her spine and the certainty that her best friend is dead and soon so will she be.The latter is her best friend’s Maddie’s story and how she became a pilot with the ATA, how they met, how they became friends and everything about their friendship including who they met and how they became part of the War Effort which involve some of the secrets the Nazis are not supposed to know.And so, the Scottish spy tells the truth.If I were writing this review on paper it would be smeared all over because of my tears.
The novel begins with a believable situation: the plane carrying the spy crashes in occupied France, and she is soon captured by the Germans.
The whole plot is staged for the final "twist", but by that time I was so disinterested in both the story and its characters that I long stopped to care.There are a few interesting bits here - a scene where a German pilot who has accidentally crossed the channel is tricked by the British to believe that he's still in occupied France, and convinced to land in their base is suspenseful and well-written.
This is an actual, true story worth reading about, and perhaps one day someone will turn it into believable fiction.
Everything else was brilliant and amazing.) (hide spoiler)]If it doesn't sound too completely off, this book is almost more like what I wanted Blackout/All Clear to be -- not time travel and all that of course, but the idea of the smallest action having reverberations through time, of "small" daily heroism being just as good as great big theatrical famous heroism, or when those two kinds of heroism even come together and are the same thing -- the "miracle of the little ships" at Dunkirk for Willis, and....well here I have the same problem as everyone else, that you can't talk about specific events in this book because that will really spoil the reading experience.
WERE THEY NOT THINKING WHEN THEY READ THIS BOOK, maybe watching tv at the same time or maybe they were TEXTING, TWITTER???
Instances used as the basis for this novel actually happened, read the author's notes, have a look at some of the references!Some time later and a lot calmer, I write..."I closed this book feeling I'd met real people that I'd never forget.
For me, this novel was hauntingly real, devastatingly heroic and absolutely unforgettable.
I urge everyone, no matter your age or gender, to read this novel.
So, if you think you'd like a young-adult novel starring two women--one a pilot, one an intelligence officer--in WWII, and you don't like spoilers, you should probably avoid all reviews (mine included) and just read it.Now for the review.Overall, Code Name Verity is an enjoyable book.
Interspersing Julie's story with other documents could have arrived at the same result without making both her and her captors look stupid.Maddie narrates the last third, and the premise here doesn't make much sense either--she writes most of it in hiding in France, where if found her writing would endanger not only her but the family sheltering her.
I've never been blithe in my life.The audio book was the best!
BUT I CANNOT HANDLE BOOKS ABOUT THE HOLOCAUST.
I started to believe that Maddie and "Verity" existed because it was written so convincingly.
"Verity" was writing, and she only put in snippets about where she was (in the Gestapo building) and what was happening to her (I wanted to know her story!).
All in all, this is Maddie's and Verity's story.
At the beginning I thought it was Maddie's story...but now I know it's both of theirs.
And I loved Maddie and Verity's friendship.
I took a bit of a risk I think, my very first audio book AND Historical fiction...
I don't think if i read the written version of this book, i would have enjoyed it quite so much.
With this audio version I can remember the EXACT moment of the most pivotal shocking moment of the book - I was unloading the dishwasher and nearly dropped a plate!I really enjoyed how the story came together with the second narrator.
Overall though there were quite a few slower parts but then something really interesting would happen to peak my interest again.It took me a while to get used to listening to a book being read for me.
Not in the sense that I want happy endings all the time because most of the books I love are pretty sad and are filled with a lot of loss.
I'm idealistic because I want to read books that are 4 & 5 star reads all of the time.
When I read the author's "debriefing" at the end of the book, I discovered that this story in some ways could have happened and that there were probably bold, courageous women who fought the war like Julia and Maddie, with code names something other than Verity and Kittyhawk.
Whether it was as last line of defense, disguised as a man, as spies, in factories, as couriers, as pilots, tank drivers, or snipers; women were fighting in battle long before Congress debated whether or not it should be allowed.I’m not sure why this gets ignored.
One woman is always superior, better, than the other.So it is refreshing to read something like this book.I swear if this book doesn’t win some award, I’ll thump someone.
The book relates the experiences of Maddie and Queenie, two young women who joined various British divisions, Aircraft Aux and SOE, during WW II.
Sometime later, with Maddie wrestling with the controls of flak-damaged Lysander, Julie - no, I am not Scottie, Queenie or Lady Julia Lindsay MacKenzie Wallace Beaufort-Stuart; I am simply Julie - parachutes into occupied France.Captured and tortured by the Gestapo - thanks to a snafu before take-off Julie finds herself carrying Maddie's logbook and ATA papers - she becomes a modern day Scheherazade, forced to write a believable report of the organisation, defences and activities of the RAF.A consummate actress with a powerful imagination her manuscript - you're reading her thoughts and her words as she writes them - skillfully merges fact with fiction, embellishing what the Gestapo already know and what they can probably check.
The book reminded me a lot of the film Female Agents which I really liked.However the writing style need full attention, it was written beautifully and sophisticatedly unlike most of YA genres the book is definitely not meant for young readers.The historical details ans aspects in Code Name Verity fully convinced me, but the novel centered more on the friendship between Maddie and Verity.
