https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/119157.Essay_on_Typography
If you, like me, expected this little book to provide an extended meditation on typography, you'd be disappointed.Rather, 3/4ths of Eric Gill's On Typography comprises an empty, monotonous homily on the relationship between industry and craft.
I patiently waited for Gill to say something interesting, at least, about the relationship between industry and craft or, perhaps, meaningfully connect the topic into his discussion about typography, but no.In the smaller part where Gill does discuss typography, there were some interesting tidbits, like when Gill describes the relationship between majuscule and minuscule letters (many Roman miniscules are stolen from majuscules) and I enjoyed his pitch for a shorthand type in the end.
Någonsin satt något i Gill Sans? Eric Gill. Från Brighton. Först oväntat politisk ton, som en nutida Maker Movement-Chomsky! I kommande kapitel tänker jag på Rilkes ord "I am learning to see." Till slut talar Herr Gill om det jag trodde att hela manifestet handlade om, typsnitt:"There are now about as many different varieties of letters as there are different kind of fools. I myself am responsible for designing five different sorts of sans-serif letters - each one thicker and fatter than the last because every advertisement has to try and shout down its neighbours."
a brief history of typography from ancient times to current days. The author did mention about the lost of art in typography and strokes because of mass production which I beg to differ.
An interesting little time capsule revealing the tension between industrialisation and the 'humane' (as Gill calls it) of the 1930s.
Gill, being of the arts and crafts movement, lands on the side of the humane, but still allows for mechanical forms (he was the designer of Gill Sans, afterall).
The typesetting of the book (set in Gill's own Joanna type) is a design artifact in itself.
Then, at the end, Gill - one of the most famous names in typography - goes on a rant against Roman type, out of the blue, and out of left field, strongly suggesting that we should abandon our current alphabet and writing system in favour of shorthand...

For a book on typography, I found this essay surprisingly badly typeset... interesting read, but I thought it was not really to the point.
Three-line review: Written in 1931, this extended essay explains and defends the nuances of typography in the face of industrialization. I most enjoyed the sections discussing what constitutes a letter and how letters come to be symbols that eventually become words with meaning. Unfortunately, despite my interest in the topic, I found most of the piece to be fairly boring.
If you are ever interested in how letters and laid out on a page and the history of printmaking, this classic essay is the book for you. It is very easy to read with many good illustrations from a master printer. A bit dated in spots since it was written in 1931... but still enlightening.
Monotonous! Probably you can skip.
Some super thought provoking and entertaining stuff and some dry repetition. But definitely worth it for half of the chapters and the final one. I learned some things.
Fascinating, humorous, curmudgeonly, and surprisingly insightful and wide-ranging. An intriguing little meditation on art, human creativity, and industrialism.
Exceptional.
This is a must-read for anyone who likes to nerd out about fonts/typography. While the author has some kooky ideas, he clearly is a master of his craft and provides food for thought. He won me over with his thoughts on justified type.
A beautifully crafted book by the immensely talented Eric Gill ... explores the creation of the book, both machine-made and hand-made ... gives insights into the art of lettering, shaped by Gill's socialism and Catholicism ... including this marvelous observation: "The common problem, yours, mine, everyone's  Is -- not to fancy what were fair in life Provided it could be -- but, finding first What may be, then find out how to make it fair. & the word fair can be taken in both senses -- it means both beautiful and just."
Gill comes off as a scold and sort of an uptight dick who doesn't understand how "industry" is a necessity for people to have the things they need, but he also is extremely thoughtful on why lettering is a vital art form.
His thinking is way outdated British aristocrat hogwash but the dude knew from fonts.
He has an intermittently great prose style.
First line of first chapter: "Time & place must be taken into consideration in the discussion of any human affair, and this is particularly true in an abnormal time like the 20th century." I'm totally swiping that for a lede someday.
Not to be taken too seriously or blindly accepted as undisputable truth. Eric Gill (as I see it) tries to provoke reader into critical thinking by raising some rather radical and almost absurd points. The whole thing reminds me of Ornament and Crime by Adolf Loos – same thoughts, same radical views. And many of those thoughts are somehow still relevant.
Half the book is about the merits and downfalls of industrialism. The other half is some interesting history on letterforms and how they've come to be. The book is dated language-wise, but a short read nonetheless.
A lovely little book about Gill's views on typography, written in the 1930's, so with asides regarding capitalism and handicrafts and also a strange final chapter about replacing letters with shorthand.
Much of this book was more about morality than typography. This is Eric Gill's view of the printing and design industries as he saw them in his time. It was interesting how relevant his thoughts on proper use of type and minding the reader experience are today.
this was a fun read on an interesting topic. The history of typography and how each type was created and is used today is fascinating. Written in 1930's it also has some very interesting views on the industry and how technology will impact it. Quick read - 2-3 hours.
Just got a used copy ... hooray for books on type.
Short and thoughtful.
2.0*
Excellent book about typography and it's place in an industrialized world
"Written with clarity, humility and a touch of humor…timeless and absorbing."— Paul Rand, The New York Times
This is a wonderful little book if not for that wacky final chapter.
polecam każdemu niedzielnemu typografowi i nie tylko
