https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/77614.Plot_it_Yourself
Take a look at the following as an example:These laws were not any easier to understand almost 60 years ago when this book was first published.
A group of publishers and authors came to Nero Wolfe for a consultation.
Somebody devised a good blackmailing scheme involving bestselling books.
Basically as soon as a book reaches bestselling status a person - different every time - comes out and claims he/she submitted the book for publication before the published book was written, but it was rejected and the manuscript was never returned.
It involved quite a few dead bodies, plot twists and one of the most complicated mysteries of the series.
Nero Wolfe is hired to get to the bottom of a suspicious series of plagiarism suits in which established authors are being framed and successfully sued because of the "evidence" of planted plagiarized manuscripts manuscripts.
Wolfe determines all these manuscripts are the work of one person, and soon the bodies (of the supposed original authors of those manuscripts) start piling up..
The first third of this novel is as absorbing and ingenious as any Wolfe I've read, but the development and denouement don't quite measure up to the beginning.
Some light reading after a couple of tomes. Not Stout's best--Wolfe commits an egregious oversight that a dedicated Wolfite just can't credit. Archie doesn't turn Rowcliff inside out. And the byplay among the regulars doesn't measure up. But mediocre Stout is still an enjoyable couple of hours. Since it's about the publishing world, one supposes an insider could identify at least some of the characters.
Wolfe is approached by a committee of authors and publishers to find out who is behind the string of spurious claims of plagiarism. It gets serious fast when some of the people who claimed to have been plagiarized turn up murdered. Of course, by the end the murderer has been uncovered. This book contains one of the rare instances when Wolfe leaves the house on business.
As one of the later of Rex Stout's Nero Wolfe novels Plot It Yourself has been said by some to not be one of the best, however I think it stands up alongside Some Buried Caesar, The Doorbell Rang, and Death of a Doxy.
Archie gets some good lines, but less interaction with women, and there's a good scene with Inspector Cramer of Homicide who has a rare opportunity to get a dig in at Wolfe.As always Stout plays fair with the reader and the solution is in plain sight for the astute.
This is one of my favorite Nero Wolfe books.
Wolfe pulls a mutiny early on, then he gets over it.
The killer keeps staying ahead of him to the point where he's roaring.I always say a good series is not about whodunit but about the relationships of the main continuing characters.
The question in these books is, What is Wolfe eating?
How is he getting on Archie's last nerve?
How is Archie going to get him back, and who will have the last word?
The relationships between these two and Fritz the cook and Theodore the orchid guy stir the pot.
As usual, not a wasted word.
I was completely flummoxed, as were Nero Wolfe and Archie Goodwin through most of this one.
Three times Archie directly addressed me the reader and admitted that the answer may seem obvious to me, but that it was much more difficult when he and Wolfe were actually living it, as opposed to having it all organized and laid out between the covers of a book.
Of course at no point did I actually have a clue.
And when the clues were finally revealed, I had missed all of them.
Great to be so thoroughly outwitted.
I love Rex Stout's Nero Wolfe books.
In this book a group of authors and publishers come to Wolfe to hire him to find out who is perpetrating a plagiarism fraud on them.
There have been claims that the plots and characters in published books have been stolen from the real authors.
As Wolfe looks into the claims he concludes the separate manuscripts have been written by the same person while the complaints were filed by several different people against different writers.
While trying to find this person, one by one the authors who filed the claims are being murdered.
Quite a few of the Nero Wolfe mysteries are not really 'solvable' in the same way e.g. Agatha Christie's mysteries are, but this one definitely is 'solvable', which is part of the reason why I liked it a lot; the fact that I did manage to figure it out may also have been a contributing factor to my giving the book five stars. A very enjoyable read.
Up to the point of resolution these frustrations reveal new sides to the business relationship of Archie and Nero, with Archie being the one who is creative, making decisions, and recognizing when some path is a dead end, while Nero only emerges from the background at the point when he pinpoints the murderer and holds one of his trademark inquests where everything is revealed.There is a greater than usual amount of smoke and mirrors in the conclusion, much of it to inform us of the incredible deviousness of the system of plagiarism accusations and the cover-up that followed.
Another Nero Wolfe story set in the world of publishing, this one revolving around plagiarism.
A set of authors are accused of plagiarism and sued, to end up settling the cases for large sums of money.
In fact, it's all a scam and the accusers are all in on a conspiracy.As a mystery this one falls short of Stout's best efforts.
The culprit is fairly easy to determine and there are really no characters I ended up liking (except Archie and the rest of Wolfe's household).
Again, it's Michael Pritchard's performance as Archie that saves the story.
Oh Rex, why couldn't you have written 100 more?In this volume plagiarism plagues the NY literary industry in the 1950s, and Nero leaves the brownstone, if only briefly. For a man who never leaves his home, I seem to gravitate to every book in which he does.
A little spoiler - Wolfe denies himself beer for several days. That alone is a sufficient reason to read this story.
Plot it Yourself features Rex Stout writing at the top of his game.
He knew the publishing world and he knew authors; moreover he knew how to put together a taut and atmospheric mystery.
One of the many things that makes Stout's books so great is his ability to draw minor characters to compete with the oversized Wolfe and Archie.
When I return to the novels I am continually struck by his gifts in this regard; ostensibly based on Archie's powers of observation.
Sharply rendered scenes and snappy dialogue lurk in every Wolfe novel; they are timeless and will always be worth your attention.
Wolfe accepts a committee for a client, which he comes to regret, as does the reader. The narrative is largely composed of meetings between Wolfe and the committee members, with a lot of talk and votes and other tedium. The mystery, involving plagiarism claims, is pretty decent however, and some of the evidence involves Wolfe close reading some texts (not provided to the reader, though, so there is no chance to play along). Characterization, as usual for Stout, is minimal, the male suspects especially being essentially interchangeable.
One of Stout's best Nero Wolfe's! Caught up in a plagirism scam, Nero and Archie have a challenge in sorting out the plagirist from the legitimate authors. When one is murdered the plot becomes complicated. Archie keeps running into Officer Stebbins at murder scenes moments after the crimes are discovered. Eventually, the murderer is identified by a strange plot twist. Hard to put down.
Me li ricordavo più appassionanti i gialli di Nero Wolfe. O forse ho solo trovato un racconto poco fortunato, non saprei... Fatto sta che l'ho letto velocemente (si pubblicano ancora romanzi di 200 pagine scarse??) e con curiosità, ma senza provare quella voglia di continuare a leggere sempre di più per sapere come va a finire.
This was another good Nero Wolfe mystery. A pivotal moment in the plot was when Archie Goodwin commented about how he was stymied when Nero Wolfe finally figured out who was the culprit, based on a clue given by one of the other suspects. As stated in other reviews, Archie was basically talking to the reader while making this comment. Read it. You'll enjoy it.
http://speloncalibro.blogspot.it/2007...
I enjoyed this thought provoking book! Nice twist at the end.
A little boring in places but I did learn a lot about copy wright.
A treat to read Wolfe’s take on writing styles. A rare case where Wolfe leaves the house.
Very clever! A writer's mystery, to be sure. The ending definitely was a surprise. Stout is an excellent writer to read to learn how to craft characters.
Typically wonderful and entertainingTrue to the form, the whole cast is there. A good mystery to the end. Not up to the best of the series.
Outstanding!!! I loved the themes of writing and plagiarism.
Nice mix of a clever, complicated mystery and the tense pursuit of a killer.Really solid on every level with no obvious padding.I have a faint feeling that the writers are meant to be takes on known writers, but after a couple guesses, I let the idea go and moved and just enjoyed the story.
The unknowns all cashed in with settlements or court victories which cost writers and publishers in money and reputation.Wolfe gets hold of the fraudulent manuscripts and by comparing the styles, discovers that with one exception, all of them were written by the same writer.
However, when he compares that style to that of other writing by the phony claimants, he discovers that none of them wrote the fraudulent manuscripts, which means that the mastermind of the scam could be anyone and that the writers filing false claims are only shills.Wolfe tries to beg off the case, but is persuaded to take part in a plan by the committee to pay one of the phony authors to obtain the identity of the mastermind.
(If you can find the series on DVD, I highly recommend picking it up.) I had read all of the books I could find in print, but there were still many that I could not find in print; new or used.
If you've never read a NWM, I highly recommend it.
It's set in the late 1950s, but as always, Rex Stout's timeless characters are just that and while some things like technology (carbon paper, self-service elevators) and practices (*gasp* smoking indoors or having a cocktail at lunch) are of the period, the story doesn't feel overly dated.
A classic Nero Wolfe mystery. This one was average. It does not really highlight any brilliant deduction by Wolfe. A fun read. But, not one of the best in the series.
Stout, Rex. PLOT IT YOURSELF. (1959). ***. Nero Wolfe and Archie Goodwin are engaged by a committee of writers and publishers to look into the rash of charges of plagerism that has beset their industry. It’s a new crime for Wolfe and his assistant, and they have trouble coming to grips with what the job actually entails. Once that is over, Wolfe embarks on a critical study of the books in question – the published edition and the comparable book offered up as the one having been copied from. He f
Nero Wolfe and Archie Goodwin are engaged by a committee of writers and publishers to look into the rash of charges of plagerism that has beset their industry.
He then proposes that the committee agree to approach each of the writers who claimed to have been plagiarized with an offer of money and a form of hold harmless document if they would reveal who the original writer was.
It seems as if the supposedly plagiarized writers are being killed off to prevent them from sharing the name of the original writer who acted through their name and collected damages from the writers whose books they claim to have anteceded.
