https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/338329.Three_Hearts_and_Three_Lions
"Don't play coy with me Mr. 'one middle name isn't good enough for me.' What the hell does R.R. stand for anyway?""Rich and Ridiculously famous."   "Why you arrogant S.O....""Just kidding, Poul. Now what do you want?"
Yeah, it was kind of a disappointment.Three Hearts and Three Lions is a mish-mash of a ton of quest stories, combining Arthur, Charlemagne, Shakespeare, and various other sources.
The battle between Law and Chaos has been a staple of RPGs since the beginning and fantasy fiction not long after that.Three Hearts and Three Lions is very much a product of its time, at least as sexist as the works of Edgar Rice Burroughs.
After that, it got on my nerves.All things considered, Three Hearts and Three Lions is an enjoyable Chosen One quest story.
After reading Anderson’s novel The High Crusade, I remarked how I wondered if Anderson was influenced by Mark Twain’s A Connecticut Yankee in King Arthur's Court.
This book, like several others of his authorship, is set in Denmark and reveals sentimentality toward the nation and culture.Anderson explores ideas of law and chaos that may have influenced Michael Moorcock and, further, Gary Gygax (Dungeons and Dragons may be a literary descendant of this book).
Anderson does a good job of piecing together a modern setting, myth, historical, and fantastic elements into a pleasing whole.
I was charmed from the get-go for I knew that this was a classic, more SF/F Andersonian mix, a retelling of A Connecticut Yankee in King Arthur's Court, and that is exactly what I got.There's plenty of old adventure that's a little less nuts than White's Arthurian adventures, with a bit more in the straight adventure arena, including a sphinx/troll Scene, clever science fixes for epic battles, swooning women, time travel, witches, Faery courts, dragons, hidden memories and unbreakable promises.
No. But this one is a bit more light-hearted and it's straight-up Arthurian legend Plus stuff.
(The High Crusade reads like a fantasy romp, but is entire sci-fi)Three Hearts & Three Lions is the story of Holger Carlsen, a Danish engineer who is shot in a battle against the Nazi and suddenly finds himself in a parallel dimension where magic is functional.“The ordinary laws of nature, like gravity and chemical combination, appeared to obtain; but here they apparently had clauses permitting, well magic.
It reminds me a little of Mark Twain’s  A Connecticut Yankee in King Arthur's Court where a modern man from our world finds himself in medieval time and goes on an adventure, often using his knowledge of science to get out of life-threatening situations.As I expected the book is something of a romp, along the line of The Broken Sword.
Aug2011: I've read this maybe half a dozen times in the past 40 years & still love it.
In the tradition of an Arthurian legend, a modern man is dumped into a fantasy world with abilities & limits that he doesn't understand well.
On the whole, I'd have to say it's perfect.This is a short book by one of the grand masters of fantasy & SF.
He's a wonderful writer with a better handle on fantasy than most today.
I loved this story as a pre-teen & still enjoy it 40 years later.
He dusts off some old myths & tosses a modern man into one.
Looking at my screen name you can probably tell I like the paladin character.
Holger Carlsen is definitely a Paladin.There is a dearth of good books about Paladins (I actually have several in various stages of completion...pray for me.
Most people who write about the character tend to use him or her as a parody of the actual character.This book in many ways lays out the character as it was to be played in the first editions of D&D.
Then there's the writing of the book in a dialect...
Instead Anderson chose to write the accent into the story and sections of it are rather...tedious to read.All in all I'd say try this one yourself.
This wasn't as good as The Broken Sword, and I think Anderson recycled many of the same tropes from that other book without much variation, but it's still an enjoyable high-adventure romp, with more action than character progression (besides the lead character) in the style of the old epics.
This is one reason why I wish this book wasn't so much of a straight epic ride after epic ride adventure novel, and that it were longer, with denser worldbuilding, because it ends exactly in the moment the questers arrive to the location they were going to on quest, and the rest is merely wrapped up in a short epilogue chapter.
Michael Moorcock also admitted that he cribbed his ideas about an epic struggle between Law and Chaos (rather than Good and Evil) from Anderson's work, so this book is, in a way, an ancestor of the Elric stories and by extension many other books in the "dark fantasy" genre.
Having said that, this book is certainly not a part of the "dark fantasy" genre itself.
Where The Broken Sword (which Anderson wrote the following year) concentrates on inventing a sort of modernized Norse saga, 3 Hearts and 3 Lions more or less invents a modernized medieval romance.
In science-fiction, the space-type multiverse appears first in a 1939 short story by Clifford Simak, later expanded into the 1950 novel The cosmic engineers.
Could Anderson have influenced The golden compass by Philip Pullman, which also describes a parallel world similar to ours (although different) as in this Anderson novel?
En ciencia-ficción, el multiverso de tipo espacial aparece primero en una historia corta de 1939 de Clifford Simak, más tarde expandida en la novela de 1950 The cosmic engineers.
¿Podría Anderson haber influido en The golden compass de Philip Pullman, que también describe un mundo paralelo similar al nuestro (aunque al mismo tiempo diferente) de forma similar a la de esta novela de Anderson?
It felt like the author was reading the following handbook: The Idiots Guide to Writing a Fantasy Novel 1.
Put your Hero in an awkward, fantastical, situation.
Send your Hero on a quest.
In fact, send him on as many quests as you can.
Give your Hero some Side-Kicks to aid him on his Quest(s).
You may want to alternate between endangering your hero and endangering the  fuckable  female lead.
Allow your hero to complete his final quest, most easily done by finding an object he seeks.
Shut down your lap top and never attempt to write a novel again.The End.
A modern man, fighting for the underground in Denmark during World War II, is snatched into another world. He does not initially understand this fantasy world, but it seems like he really belongs there; he understands the language, and finds that he is a brave knight capable of sword-fighting, jousting, and spooking his enemies.The story is wonderful, but the audiobook narration by Bronson Pinchot is absolutely marvelous. I am simply amazed by the narrator, as he alternates between multiple accents and voices during complex conversations. By all means, if you are interested in this book--listen to the audiobook!
This book is often heralded as one of the forebears of the fantasy genre, though it usually eclipsed by Tolkien's The Lord of the Rings, which was published little more than a year later.There were parts of Three Hearts and Three Lions where I was genuinely interested in what was happening, and where I was excited to see what would happen next.
I actually felt kind of cheated, though I can see the reasons why Anderson might have told it this way.Although this wasn't a book I enjoyed over-much, I feel that anyone with a keen interest in the fantasy genre should read it at least once.
I was already partway through The Broken Sword, which is deeply inspired by Norse sagas, when I accidentally picked this book up -- I only meant to read a couple of pages, figure out how long it might take me to read it.
Still, I shouldn't really judge until I've finished The Broken Sword, and I just promptly looked up the titles of his other fantasy novels.What did I love about this?
I was impressed by the fact that it took the Matter of France for the backdrop: I think I've only read one other non-medieval text which drew on the stories of Charlemagne, at least in a way that I recognised.
Soon joined by an earthy little dwarf, Hugi, and a beautiful, nubile swan-maiden, Alionora, he experiences a set of adventures (in which his knowledge of engineering repeatedly comes in handy), faces the machinations of Morgan le Fay, and gradually comes to realize that his true place may be here, in this magical land.It's a bit cheesy in parts, and suffers from some innate sexism (it was written in the 50's), but overall, a fun, light read.
In his quest, Holger comes up against Mother Gerd, a cronelike witch; Duke Alfric, one of the lords of Faerie (the entrance into Faerie itself, which Holger reaches merely by crossing an uninhabited wilderness area, may remind some readers of Lord Dunsany's 1924 classic "The King of Elfland's Daughter"); the legendary sorceress Morgan Le Fay; and a wide assortment of malevolent creatures, such as a giant, a fire-breathing dragon, an impressively unkillable troll, cannibal hordes , a bodyless knight, a water sprite and even a werewolf."Three Hearts and Three Lions" is not a long book (the whole thing runs to under 170 pages), and it is remarkable how much incident and humor Anderson manages to work in.
He could believe the others, but there were no bears left in Denmark.Happening on a witch who summons what she calls a sprite -- involving reciting the Lord's Prayer backwards -- helps murk things up more.
She is told that he comes from far, far, far away, and sends him off with a dwarf, Hugi, toward the local elf hill and Duke Alfric, who may help clear up things.
I had heard the name of this book bandied about as a Dungeons and Dragons inspiration, but was surprised to find such striking similarities to Michael Moorcock's writing: an eternal battle of Law and Chaos as metaphysical entities; the idle suggestion of a system of related universes, each a distorted reflection of the others; and a Defender figure fated to walk the worlds, who figures greatly into the Law/Chaos conflict.Aside from the trappings, the direct Appendix N inspirational value is in the idea of a frontier between civilization and the monstrous wild lands, where life is uncertain and adventure awaits the ambitious.
Three Hearts and Three Lions a Parallel World fantasy an Earthman is translated from the middle of World War Two into Faerie where he fights the forces of Chaos in a tale whose humor is laced with a conspicuous sexual dis-ease that (along with its religious politics) marks it as a Christian Fantasy.
The world of the old Carolingian chansons de geste is one that is not plumbed enough for "heroic fantasy", as Master Anderson liked to call it.This is one of those that does it all - humor (lots of that), pageantry, cosmic sweep, danger, tragedy, true love, beloved characters doing supernatural things, with an author solidly grounded in what makes the natural world go even as he spins us this yarn, while though "modern" it might be, feels a lot like a grand older fairy tale.
This may be the only book of this author’s that I read but I enjoyed it immensely.
Coming from the understanding that this in part, inspired my all-time favorite role playing game (Dungeons & Dragons), I had certain expectations, yet they were not completely met.
On the surface it’s written like most modern day Fantasy, however, it is when this book was written that sets it apart from other Fantasy books for me.
I also quite enjoyed the use of language in this book, often stopping to look a word I’d not seen used before.
Overall, would recommend this to those who enjoy Fantasy.
Not since I read the great epic The Broken Sword have I read any of this author's fantasy and I was hoping to be wowed a lot more than I was.The story was okay but had a few little quirks that detracted from my enjoyment such as the pointless Scottish accents of the protagonists two travelling companions and the boundless chauvinism that made me wince when I thought what I female reader might think reading this.
Moorcock was even quoted on the back cover singing the praises of this book so it is clear that the link wasn't incidental.But for me, this just isn't as timeless as "The Broken Sword".
I've had this book for years and I never get tired of it. I think I've read it 5-6 times and every time I take something different away. Always in my top 10!
He rode out on the wold, and it was as if dawn rode with him.
This novel is Poul Anderson at his swash-buckling best.
Holger Carlsen was an orphan who was raised in Denmark, leading a fairly normal life, until the Nazi machine stepped forward.
Then while on a mission for the underground resistance Holger disappears and is "translated" into another world, one where magic, dragons, witches and trolls are all real.
Holger is without memory of this land, but his body does remember and through his many adventures, he comes to realize that he is an important cog in the battle between chaos and law, in two separate, yet oddly similar worlds.
I loved the very first Poul Anderson book I read (THE HIGH CRUSADE obvs - go and read it!) and was faintly disappointed by the second.
I liked how, just as in THE HIGH CRUSADE, religion was given a meaningful role in the story world - you can't have a medievalesque world and not have some kind of religious involvement.
Just as much, I liked that each time something outrageously fantastic happened, Holger was able to come up with some kind of scientific explanation for it - in such a way as to explain this fantastic story-world without ever leeching it of its mystery and romance.
I guess I figured it was a SciFi/time travel book, like an adult version of Conetticut Yankee.
It truly does have appeal for all ages.The title, by-the-way, comes from the crest on the shield left for Holger along with his horse, armor and sword.I admired Holger Carlsen and the Saracen Carahue, enjoyed the fight scenes and was tickled by the riddle contest with the pseudo-intellectual giant (years later I paid homage to it in a fantasy short of my own).Throughout the tale there is an implication that the characters have been expecting Holger to arrive--like it was prophesied from olde or something.
Poul Anderson far exceeds all of his fantasy contemporaries of his time. Interesting characters with quality characterization! It's hard to believe that this book was written so long ago. If you enjoy classic fantasy featuring knights, dragons, fey, magic, and an unforgettable quest look no further! Absolutely the highest recomendation!
Very episodic, but a great yarn. Been meaning to read this for quite a while; glad I picked this one to start the year off.
Perchè una gallina attraversa la strada?Perchè fare il giro del mondo per arrivare all'altro lato richiederebbe troppo tempo.
