https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2644933-the-door
So--if you don't want to know the solution, don't read past the synopsis until after you've given Mary Roberts Rinehart's The Door a read of your own.Synopsis: Elizabeth Bell is an older woman with a houseful of servants and a niece staying with her.
When the family nurse, Sarah Gittings, is brutally murdered and hidden down a brick sewer Miss Bell begins to wonder how well she knows the people around her.
She takes a very long time to work her way to the solution--which, admittedly, is probably a surprise for anyone who doesn't have an inkling of the butler connection before reading.My biggest complaint about the book is Miss Elizabeth Bell.
Not bad, good characters, but incredibly long. It was very popular when it came out in 1930.
The killer was not at all who I thought it was.
Published in 1930, The Door plods along from one murder to the next right under the narrator Elizabeth Jane Bell's nose.
The author, Mary Roberts Rinehart, has been called the American Agatha Christie of her time.
I don't know if I would agree about comparing her to the talented Agatha, but this is my first book by Rinehart.
Quite frankly, I'm on the fence about what I really think about The Door.
I did read it cover to cover and never guessed who the killer was.
I'm going to try another one of Ms. Rinehart's novels at a later date.
It is a testament to one of my favorite authors, Mary Roberts Rinehart, that I enjoyed this book immensely in spite of the fact that the Goodreads profile of this author completely and quite rudely spoils the entire thing...I happened to glance at that page one-third of the way through my reading of this book (thankfully, the kind librarians at Goodreads have since edited the page).That bit of unpleasantness aside, this book was a great deal of fun.
The tale is narrated by Elizabeth Jane Bell, at whose home much of the mystery takes place.
There's nothing better than a...Mystery that has you toggling back and forth as to who did it. This is my first Mary Roberts Rinehart and most explicitly not my last.
But what I want to know is (view spoiler)[do Elizabeth Jane and the detective ever hook up? Don't leave me hanging, Mary! Oh wait, you're dead. Drat. (hide spoiler)]
Not one of her best. I never quite understood why the perp did what he did. Modern readers will be offended by her attitudes toward African-Americans and the working class.
Rinehart's love was people and her characters are so fascinating that the crime itself is secondary.This is one of my favorites.
When Rinehart started writing, class was a potent factor in American life and young people from wealthy families were expected to marry into similar families.
Parents still hope that a son will be a brilliant professional success and that a daughter will make a profitable marriage.I like the character of Jim Blake, the ageing man-about-town who remains a popular guest although he struggles to keep up appearances on a small income.
This book took me rather longer to read than it normally might have.
Owing to Hurricane Harvey and its aftermath this book was picked up and put down more times than I can remember.
But precisely because of the way it was written added to the fact I could not steadily read it through I began to chafe at the constant narrative of what the main character was thinking.
Toward the end I found myself thinking: just get on with it!
Because it seemed everyone in the book had a motive or was a red herring.
Hoping for a calmer time for a good read.
I enjoyed experiencing the writing of this popular American author from the mid-20th century who was often compared to Agatha Christie.
Ending is comparable to many Agatha Christie novels - you’ll probably want or need to go back and re-read to completely follow it.
I didn’t have time to do this so this was a bit frustrating and disappointing!
Probably not a good read if you don’t really have the time to savour and get into it, not sure whether I’ll read another book by this author but at least I know what she’s all about now.
Elizabeth Bell has a quiet household with servants. Her family comes in an out as well. Then one of her servants, Sarah, goes missing and is killed. Their lives change forever. Can Elizabeth, her niece and her boyfriend plus the inspector figure out who did it before someone else gets hurt or the wrong person is accused.Fairly surprising mystery with a twist. It's a classic and is not politically correct and uses some words the modern reader may not agree with.
Horrible EndingThe plot is good. But the story line is chaotic and the pacing is goes from plodding to breakneck speed back to plodding. But all of that could be forgiven if the "pay off" was worth it. But it is as if the author had no idea how to end it so she suddenly through a "twist" in with no explanation or grounding.
Wonderful book!I have always enjoyed reading Mary Roberts Rinehart. The first book that I read of hers was The Case of Jeanie Brice (I believe that was the name of it) when I was twelve years old. I am now 65 and still enjoy her books
Mary Rhinehart is the originator of "the butler did it" cliche; I mean that in a good way.
The tone of the book could be described as "had I only known" in that it is written in the first person after the fact and although all the action and clues are described, the protagonist is as completely in the dark as the reader.
Since the action is set in the 30's there are some unfortunate racial and class system stereotypes which some might find offensive.
Well written and fast paced with good character development.
If you like 1930's and 1940's movies on TMC you will enjoy her books.
Fabulous mystery. Loved every minute of it. “Had she but known” does it again. Rinehart is a master of this technique and this book is a prime example.
Too many coincidences and too much foreshadowing weakened the story for me.
It's been a long time since I've read a Mary Roberts Rinehart book, so I felt it was long over due.
The one time I did pick it up, it wasn't holding my attention so I put it away, and didn't pick it up again until another bazillion months had passed.
It's not my favorite and I probably won't read it again, but it will stick around collecting dust for years to come.
I just wouldn't put it up against my favorite Rinehart books.

When I read on Overdrive that Mary Roberts Rinehart is credited with inventing the phrase the butler did it, I had to borrow one of her books.
It is an involving mystery, convoluted and layered with convincing details, that never felt cliched or predictable.
I especially liked the way the author structured the novel, with the main character reconstructing the mystery after the fact.
It added a nice layer of suspense to the story to have Miss Bell foreshadowing the outcome as the narrative unfolded.
I'm looking forward to discovering more of Rinehart's mysteries and novels.
I had a hard time getting into this book and remembering all the characters. Judy, Karthrine, Ms. Bell, Joseph, Jim, Sarah, Dick, and that's those that I can remember, there's more. I had a hard time too getting into the linear storytelling, "Had I known what I know now, this story would be different, but I'm not gonna tell you cause we aren't at that part of the story, but only if!" Thinking back, that might have been the beginning to most of the chapters.For all of its faults, I did like the characters and was a pretty decent mystery.
If I hadn't been sick while reading this, I never would have finished it. The plot is preposterous. It has not stood the test of time at all well. It is far too long and drawn out. People do things that make no sense over and over again--and they know they make no sense. There is goofy foreshadowing, and there really aren't all that many suspects. Bad.
A laborious and twisted plot!I gave this book 4 stars. It keep me interested until the very last page. I loved the ending. Not sure I understand the why's and the reasons for all the murders. Nevertheless I liked the book. Will read another book by this author. Very soon. Like right now.
I enjoyed this book, though I found the plot a little convoluted, the murders too numerous, and the ending abrupt (this was the first whodunit I’ve read in which the name of the killer wasn’t revealed until the last page, I believe). My first Mary Roberts Rinehart novel and likely not my last, though she is not as skilled a mystery writer as Agatha Christie, in my opinion.
Fooled me!I thought I read all of Rinehart's books 60 years ago but I was fooled by the murderer in this one. The plot is a little complex but interesting. The characters are well-drawn and likeable.
great murder mystery! First book I have read by this author. It is interesting to read something from this time period. (early 20th century). She well defines her characters and I have had to look up several old Victorian words. Good for my vocabulary.
It is different when you read a book a second time and in the original language...
see review on other edition
My new favorite Mary Rinehart. That was a rollicking good read for a "who-dunn-it"!
Slightly dated, particularly when it comes to people who are "different." Very convoluted plot that went on a bit too long.
One of the few mysteries I've read that kept me reading with no idea who did it. I though everyone did it at some point in the story.
