https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/34625020-the-beguiled
"How deep do the layers of deception go, I wondered one day." I wasn't aware of this novel,until I saw an advert for Sofia Coppola's recent film version,starring Colin Farrell. I didn't know there was a 1971 version either (and I wouldn't watch a Clint Eastwood film if my life depended on it). So, being a Colin fangirl, I thought "well, I'll read the book and then I'll watch the film and find all kinds of fault with it,because I am an unashamed purist.And the only thing I'll admire is Colin's b

I take that back -- the one person who realized from the beginning that "You chil'ren have brought destruction in this house" is the slave Mattie, who sees McBurney for what he really is, but who cannot convince the rest of the women otherwise before it's too late.The story is related through the alternating points of view of the small group of females at the school, which gives it a much more complete feel than it may have had from a third-person narrator alone.
But he ends up inflicting pain on nearly everyone before being sacrificed to the greater good of the female animal kingdom.When reading or reviewing this book, it's impossible to not bring the film version into it.
The alternating narratives in the book provided a whole mess of details and backstories that enhanced some of the film's characters, but some of them went nowhere (view spoiler)[The question of if Edwina is related to Martha and Harriet and whether she's the daughter of the slave woman Mattie and either the plantation master or his son.
BORING! I am giving 2 stars because I liked the atmosphere the author created but it was just so boring. This book was not on my radar but a friend suggested we read this and see the movie. It took me forever to read cuz it was so boring. Hope the movie is better. Did I mention I think it's boring? Moving on.
3.5/5Like many people I think, I had never heard of The Beguiled before I had heard of Sofia Coppola’s adaptation (I wasn’t even aware of the adaptation of 1971 starring Clint Eastwood) (but then again I don’t care much for Clint Eastwood.) I watched the trailer and was entranced by what I saw: a gothic tale set in the Civil War with a wounded Union soldier rescued by *Southern belles* from an all-girls boarding school.
I picked it up ahead of Coppola's movie coming out this week and I honestly think this is going to be one of those cases where the movie is better than the book.
It becomes a really fascinating example of unreliable narration because the various views correct each other and you come to read through the lies each of them believes about themselves.
It reads like a man's interpretation of inter-personal relationships.
It reads very much like a play.4) IT GOES NOWHERE.
This book could easily be a "female" horror novel in the style of Crimson Peak or Rebecca but it was written by the wrong person.

Parto col dire che le stelle in realtà sono 3.5.Questo libro l’ho trovato in biblioteca nelle novità.
E siccome volevo andare a vedere il film, ma poi non sono riuscita a vederlo, ho colto l’occasione e l’ho preso al volo 😊.La storia è molto semplice.
Ogni capitolo cambia prospettiva, ma il bello è che la storia non si interrompe.
Anche perché altro che signorine per bene...all’inizio è molto lento, ma poi piano piano il ritmo sale.
Bello davvero..e poi finisce con il botto.
Anche se mi è piaciuto molto, l’ho trovato troppo lento in alcuni punti, per poi concludersi velocemente.
Upon seeing a trailer for the upcoming Sofia Coppola remake, I was quick to pick up the creepy and disturbing 1971 film adaptation of this book, which piqued my interest in the source material.
Tracking down a copy was a challenge, but my local library's interlibrary loan came to the rescue and got an old, battered edition into my hot little hands.
It was interesting to receive the story from so many perspectives, which served to enhance the characters from the movie, but I didn't need to know quite so much about each individual's backstory, especially when the information added very little or went nowhere.
Set against the American Civil War, a group of girls and women are holed up in a schoolhouse while the fighting goes on around them.
Only this 'cat amongst the pigeons' tale soon starts to veer away and we're rapidly beginning to wonder whether it's actually a case of a pigeon amongst cats...The story is told via the voices of the women who pass the narrative baton to and fro, and they're not so much characters as functions of the story.
Splendido crescendo, nella storia come nel tono in cui viene raccontata dalle protagoniste, verso un finale gelido come si attiene all'educazione di una brava donna della confederazione.L'alternarsi delle protagoniste nel raccontare la vicenda aggiunge sapore al racconto.
Un enorme punto interrogativo così come l’intero libro.Di lui sappiamo poco e nulla, e di quel poco che sappiamo non possiamo fidarci perché fidarsi di McBurney è impossibile.
Non ho capito il suo comportamento, non me lo sono spiegata e Thomas Cullinan di certo non mi ha facilitato il compito visto che non ha rivelato niente sul caporale.Perché si è comportato in quel modo?Cosa lo ha realmente spinto al Collegio di Miss Martha?Perché mentire?Perché imbrogliare?Non si sa.
Le ultime 100 pagine sono state le più interessanti ma la mia curiosità è scemata presto, nel momento in cui ho capito che l’autore non avrebbe spiegato nulla.L’inganno di Thomas Cullinan mi ha profondamente delusa.
hella good
Sabba nel collegio per signorineCosa accadrebbe se il diavolo andasse a far visita ad un'allegra brigata di belle ed innocenti fanciulle?
È un dato di fatto cui non si può obiettare.Quindi, il romanzo "L'INGANNO", dello scrittore americano Thomas Cullinan, racconta l'incontro tra un potenziale diavolo e una combriccola di probabili streghe.
Ogni donna riferisce la storia dal suo punto di vista, così come l'ha vissuta o ha interpretato ciò che ha visto.
Il collegio femminile è il luogo nel quale due donne adulte, sorelle ed insegnanti, una serva e cinque allieve sono confinate a causa della guerra civile americana.
You know how you read A Rose for Emily and your mind was blown? Well, The Beguiled tries so hard to capture that magic but fails... It's slow.. it's boring.. and when you're finally at the point where something does happen YOU DON'T FUCKING CARE anymore.
I was expecting a little more from this movie directed by Sofia Coppola, with Nicole Kidman, Kirsten Dunst, Elle Fanning.The unexpected arrival of a wounded Union soldier at a girls school in Virginia during the American Civil War leads to jealousy and betrayal.
It took me over twenty years to track down and read this book after seeing the 1971 Clint Eastwood/Geraldine Page film on cable, and I was not disappointed in the least.
3.25 stars. This book was really slow. At times it was great, but for the most part it was... just good. Review to come.
this is one I might return to eventually and write a proper review about...(can't wait to see coppola's version tomorrow ah!)
Seems like none of us ever stop to think how evil can collect in us…how one little mean thought can pile on another ‘til finally we got a mighty load of badness stacked up inside us…and then all it takes is maybe one nasty word to set off the trigger in us…and maybe that’s some little triflin thing that wouldn’t even have raised our tempers in a calmer time…and then we rush ahead and do things we coulda sworn to the Lord Almighty in the beginning we never had in us to do.’The Beguiled is told in the first person, alternating between each of the women and girls that live at the school.
In questo caso la mia passione per la lettura si scontra con la mia passione per i film perché, avendo tratto un film da questo libro, non capisco se è il libro o se è la pellicola ad avere qualcosa che non va.
Il libro, invece, è qualcosa che non so spiegare.
Di una cosa sono però certa: di queste 472 la metà potevano essere tagliate o ridotte.
Tutta la storia potrebbe essere raccontata in nemmeno 300 pagine, a mio parere.Il metodo di scrittura, questo sì che mi è piaciuto.
Both film versions seem to diverge greatly from the original book, since the antagonist, John McBurney is a 20 year old blue-eyed, redheaded Irish boy here, which fits neither Eastwood nor Farrell (well, at least Coppola catered to the Irish part!).Having done my senior thesis on Faulkner, and my honors thesis on McCullers, Southern Gothic lit is also a big favorite of mine, so this piqued my interest on that account also.
Cullinan skirts the issue nicely, in that much of the book is told in dialogue form, and most of the women/girls are from the same milieu anyway, so the subtle differences between their narrations do, more or less, work.
Then I found out the book was available and decided to read it too.Each chapter is written from a different character's POV and we have 8 character POVs which was a lot.
(view spoiler)[ Never once did John McBurney show any interest to Martha Farnsworth.
(hide spoiler)]There is a court scene towards the end that was not in either movies and that was the best part of the book in my opinion.
Overall I enjoyed this book but would've enjoyed it more if it wasn't so long (7300 Kindle locations.) I did feel like I was transported back to the Civil War era.
La storia è interessante ma ammazza che faticaccia arrivare alla fine!
He was a complex and intriguing character to read.
It was a roller coaster of a book and would have been quite boring without his antics.AmeliaSweet little Amy was the one who found him injured in the woods and brought the firecracker into the school.
She was burned by McBurney's duplicity and she set the second half of the book into motion.
She was the Corporal's second choice but she was first in drama.
Alice Simms is a hellcat but a intriguing lady to say the least.Finally my favorite lady: Miss MarthaMiss Martha was the headmistress of the school and baddest bitch in the South.
I'm kind of conflicted about this book.
It got a lot darker than I was expecting, and I never did know who to believe, which is great.
I also never worked out where the reader's sympathy was supposed to end up (except for maybe with Mattie) and that's pretty unusual too.
On the downside, the final chapters get a little confusing (and insane), but I did like the ending.
If I didn't know that it was published in 1966, I might assume it was quite a feminist story, but that's the source of my conflict really - are all these women well-written, flawed, human characters?
They at first feel threatened but it soon becomes clear that it might be him who should be afraid.There are several girls who give their viewpoint of the events which unfold and I admit to getting a little confused over who was speaking although each chapter is signaled clearly.
Sometimes it felt a little repetitive as one girl told the story of another in a different way.
There are some uncomfortable moments as some of these girls are under age and they are exposed to so much.
The heat, the oppression, the sexuality and the sense of how on earth this is going to end kept me reading.

Told in the first person alternately,by the 5 students, black slave housekeeper and two sisters who run the school for young ladies in Virginia, only a few miles from some of the biggest battles of the Civil War. The moment wounded Northern soldier, the twenty year old and Irish born Johnny McBurney makes his appearance he has entered a simmering pot of adolescent jealousies and dramas just waiting for his presence to put it on the boil.
Using an easy and none too sincere charm that has probably seen him through well enough before, he enters into a power play between himself and Miss Martha, who runs the school and her dipsomaniac sister with an iron will.
I don't have much patience for novels which paint women is such an unflattering manner, especially when the author is male. Characters were nonsensical, pathetic, and so bored with their existence that the mere presence of a male in their vicinity had them all acting like brainless creatures.
