https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/253993.See_Jane_Run
4+Ona odjednom zaboravlja svoje ime, njena haljina je natopljena krvlju, u džepu ima oko 10 hiljada dolara, nepoznati muškarac je uvjerava da joj je muž i da je njeno ime Jane te da je njihova voljena kćerka Emily mrtva. Pokušava se oporaviti uz muškarca koji je neizmjerno voli sve dok se ne ispostavi da nije sve tako idilično i da se ustvari dešava nešto strašno... mala zamjerka na kraj romana koji je pomalo zbrzan, ali sve u svemu odličan rasplet i problem kojim se roman bavi. Preporuka!
I'm a little choosy about my thrillers, and this one is fine in conception, though let down by flat and clunky prose.
Why write in the third person at all if you're going to adopt a running pseudo-commentary anyway, and how long would it take for the reader to start getting really tired of it?) The result is a heroine who comes across as quite passive and very dull, in spite of our being repeatedly told that she is feisty and independent.
A little nuance wouldn't have hurt, and might have led to some actual thrills.
Not only that, but the quintessential Helping Hand character--who most mystery authors introduce toward the beginning of the story and ends up playing a pivotal role during the denouement--makes only a token appearance before disappearing into the ether, never to be seen again.My foremost and greatest complaint about this book, however, is that the dialogue feels rather forced; it reads more like the main body of the narrative itself than anything I would actually expect to hear come out of someone's mouth.
Better title: See Jane Make Repetitive Errors in Judgment. This book was the same thing again and again: Jane's confused, Jane tries to justify, Jane is drugged, Jane is suspicious, Jane is mollified. Again and again. She spoke in cliches, and you, the reader, know exactly who to blame from the start. You want to shake Jane for being such an idiot -- circumstances or no. Not much else to say. I made myself finish this.
This is one of my favorite thrillers. Wonderfully suspenseful book about an amnesiac woman. Learning why she got that way elevates this story way above some mindless mystery thriller. I really cared about this woman. I thought about it and talked about it a lot for a long time after I read it. Really well told story, an enjoyable read, and a very satisfying book.
Ne mogu reći da me knjiga nije zabavila.Tema potpune amnezije već je puno puta viđena,a spisateljica je uspjela postići dobar osjećaj napetosti i iščekivanja kod mene.Vrlo dobro!
I have read many of Joy Fielding's books and I would put this one as my favourite. One of the very few times that I have not been able to put down a book while reading. Highly recommend!
It's not very often a book will suck me in! This book is about memory loss. It grabbed my attention and wouldn't let go. I will certainly be picking up more of Joy's books in the future.
By now, the themes that probably seemed original back in 1990 have become so outworn and predictable that the book feels like "Exhibit A" for the genre.
By the time I was less than halfway through, I was skimming whole pages of description and mental anguish just to get to the next actual event in the story.I realize that many people have enjoyed this book and I'm sorry to be such a pill about it, but the fact is, if I'd liked it any less, I'd not have bothered finishing it.
I feel cheated by the ending...it almost seemed like she had to rush it to beat the deadline of the script.What a great beginning, awesome climax near the end, then poof.
es interesante verlo en forma de teoría o ensayos según diferentes estudiados en el tema, pero cuando lo hacen historia, el que esté bien planteado y bien hecho lo hace creíble, y más en el caso de Huye, Jane, Huye.Claramente hay que investigar al respecto para hacer una novela así, y no sólo hacerlo por hacer, sino que además debes de saber en qué momento aplicarlo y cuál será tu trama de fondo para que todo el cuerpo de la historia tenga credibilidad.
En todo momento Jane estuvo haciéndose preguntas, pensando y elucubrando teorías de lo que le pasaba, desconfiando de quien supuestamente más la apoyaba...
This book started out exciting and great but was wrecked by the most disturbing and worst ending I've ever read.
Who doesn't like a thrilling book where the main character loses his memory, so you can lean back and find everything out by reading?
Seriously, the main character thought so often about "thrusting penises" I wanted to hit her in the face!The plot was exciting at first, solving all the riddles around Jane's character but after a while you could guess how the whole plot would go.
It was the first I have read about memory loss, and I don't normally read suspense or mystery so it was a new and interesting experience for me to read this book.
I felt the book was unnecessarily long, lingering on details of little importance.
The suspense did make the book very easy to read, and although it is a little longer than I felt it needed to be, it was a very quick read.
It was entertaining, good beach reading when you want to be gripped by curiosity and suspense without really having to think deeply or be stirred by the story.
Оф,направо ми спря дъха тази потресаваща история.Отново много силна Джой Филдинг.Наподобява ми "Преди да заспя" и "Не казвай сбогом".За мой късмет в живота ми не съм се сблъсквала с някакви извращения и ми е малко трудно, когато чета за такива , да ги осмисля напълно. Особено за подобни описани в книгата.Определено ще запазя своите предпочитания към презряния чиклит.
It's a good novel, but the story is not rich enough for a book with around 400 pages. The story started strongly, so many mysteries. But it loses the attraction in the middle of the book. I just read the second half to finish it not because I wanted to know the end.
Si suami ini bahkan mempekerjakan asisten untuk menemani dan merawat Jane ketika ia berkerja.Tapi hari demi hari, ingatan Jane tak juga kembali.
Alurnya cepat dan terus bikin saya penasaran sama kejadian apa yang sebenarnya terjadi sampai sampai baju yang dikenakan Jane saat kehilangan ingatan itu berlumuran darah.
Kalau dilihat lihat, sekilas saya jadi ingat dengan Novel Before I Go to Sleep, tentang wanita yang hilang ingatan, insecure, kebingungan, dan ending yang nggak begitu memuaskan.
Bosen juga sih ya kenapa cerita novel sejenis ini kebanyakan mengambil tema wanita yang hilang ingatan.
I read this many years ago, and the fact that I remember it means it made an impression on me. I sometimes read three books a week, and for the most part, they are enjoyable but not especially memorable. I was hooked from the very first, enjoyed the suspense, and didn't quickly figure out the end.
4,5 Sterne
Knjiga je IZUZETNO mucna i teska , ja sam inace osjetljiv na teske ljudske sudbine i nisam mogao a da ne pomislim "Boze , pa nazalost postoje zene sa ovakvom ili slicnom pricom.." Autorica me dobro podsjetila kako ljudi mogu biti bescutni , gotovo cudovisni , i da su vecinom to ljudi za koje to nikada nebi rekao , istaknuti clanovi drustva , obiteljski ljudi.
Eto sta jos reci , malo sam potresen ali odusevljen..neki dijelovi knjige su stvari eksplicitni sadrzaj i zato bi knjigu preporucio svima osim maloljetnicima ili jako osjetljivim osobama.
I read this years ago and really enjoyed it. When it comes to any type of mystery or thriller I am very picky and it is rare that I pick one up. I am glad I did this one, Joy Fielding did an amazing job and I will be reading more of her books.
The first pages of this book describe what Jane remembers and what she doesn't giving the reader a feeling overwhelming dread and sympathy.
From there, we follow Jane as she searches for help, finally landing at the hospital where her pediatrician husband, Michael, is well known.
"See Jane Run" moves quickly and the sense of foreboding keeps the reader engages throughout the entire book.
The story keeps the reader guessing until quite close to the end and even then the reader wonders how Jane can ever come out of this.
While this book may hit too close to home for many readers, I definitely recommend it.
I love thrillers but have been struggling to find a good one, and I thought all my questions had been answered with "See Jane Run".The reality was far from special.
I was addicted for the first 10 pages, but after that I struggled to read on.
I don't even know what that ending was about, we don't know what happened to Jane or Emily, it was so disappointing.Anyway, I'm eating 3 stars because the first 100 pages and the concept of the book was really engaging.
Overall I'd recommend this book to someone travelling on a long journey, or just looking for something to read quickly in between other books.
I first read this book many years ago.
It was my very first Joy Fielding novel and I fell in love with not only this book, but her as an author as well.
To this day she's one of my favorites and I read everything she writes, often more than once.
This one had such an impact on me that I will say I think it's my favorite novel of Joy's and I still stand by that even close to thirty years later!
Before Gone Girl and The Girl On The Train, there was See Jane Run. Still stands strong.
I love this mystery and it led me to other books by the author. I find it interesting in retrospect that this book is about amnesia and though my bout was not so severe I do remember loving this book and at the time not understanding how one could truly have amnesia. Now I understand completely :-) it has been years so I am rereading this old fav--I still enjoyed it and had forgotten how it ended. Gave it to Dixie after I read, weeding out my books.
Once in a while you need to read a back to basics thrilling novel and this fit the bill. Imagine waking up not knowing who you are and having to put all your trust in the one person who is out to destroy you in order to save their name. Not much complexity to this plot, but that doesn't hurt the suspense in the least. I loved it.
Sehr gutes Buch *.* hat mir äußerst gut gefallen! Konnte es auch irgendwann nicht mehr aus der Hand legen und das ist ja auch ein Grund das Buch als gut zu erachten :-)
Great quick read. Read on vacation in Canada.
2.5 stars.
Einfach auf der Straße herum zu laufen und nicht zu wissen, wieso, weshalb und warum, ist schon ein schreckliches Gefühl, dann aber nicht einmal zu wissen wer man selbst ist, denn Körper und die eigene Stimme als etwas fremdes anzusehen, gleicht einen Horrortrip, den ich persönlich nie selbst erleben möchte.
Als ich mit dem Lesen begann, bemerkte ich gleich den leichten Schreibstil, der je nach Situation mal mehr und mal weniger Details aufblinzeln ließ.
Auch wenn mir die Story sehr gut gefiel, war das Buch jetzt nix, was sich im breit gefächerten Bereich der Thriller stark hervor heben würde.
volví a revivir la historia de la amnésica jane, la desesperación que sintió al encontrarse perdida sin saber su identidad y tampoco a donde ir.
(view spoiler)[ al principio, odié a paula por hacer sufrir tanto a jane y ponerse del lado de ese pedófilo, y no creer a su hija cuando le contaba que también abusaron de ella.
luego cambié de opinión cuando decidió cambiar de bando y declarar contra Michael también.
pobre jane, en todo el libro se sintió tan sola, todo el mundo la creía loca.
(hide spoiler)] super super recomendable el libro!
