https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1644043.A_History_of_the_English_Speaking_Peoples_4_Vols
(Therefore the Latin names.) So I stopped and printed out maps of Britain when it was under the control of the Roman Empire (which owned much of the known world at the time) and, of course, looked on the maps to see where the events were taking place.
If so, that’s me on British history; that is, until now.Thus the main reasons this book took me so long to read because as I’ve stated in other reviews, is I love the back story, the meaning of words, and the places of events and will not rest until I satisfy my curiosity at that moment.
The British and European view of our internal hostility for the time during the reign of Queen Victoria was in fact refreshing and unbiased.Following the descriptions of the War Between the American States – Sir WSC moves back into the European realm.
As one of craftiest politicians of the 20th Century, he led a deeply pacifist British public to rise up against the Nazi's; he predicted America's downfall in Vietnam; he also infamously forced America into WWI at the cost of more than one thousand civilian lives aboard RMS Lusitania.His mastery shines through in this book.
Neither did he hesitate to defend the Victorian decadence of Britain - even the beginning of the end can be polished to shine!After reading this book, you can't help but wonder what kind of people deserve such a leader- the kind of leader who is relentlessly pragmatic, ruthlessly indifferent to human conditions and yet charismatic enough to save an empire from the cusp of an apocalyptic destruction.
Perhaps one of my all time favorite books. I have reread this several times. If you are a lover of history this is it. If not, you will probably be bored to death. Either way a win-win for the rest of us!
I absolutely loved this series.
Churchill has a written voice unmatched in the English language, and the reader will struggle less with finishing the 1700 plus pages than he will in putting the book down.
I would absolutely recommend this for those homeschooling middle school aged children, as it provides a delightful overview of English and American history up until the start of the 20th Century, with a focus on the rise, evolution, and importance of English institutions.
I would also recommend it for adults whose historical gap includes English history, the foundation of American political and social thought.
Oh my word, if I could give this series 6 stars I would.
It's as good as they come.
Outstanding material.
Churchill's integrity as a historian is made evident in every book in the series, and he's not lacking in a sense of humor or a sense of scene.
He keeps his own opinions on the characters to himself--for the most part--but occasionally flashes out in glorious commentary.
His remarks on Catherine Howard are interesting--he so rarely comments on the appearance of the ladies :P--and I found his insights into the character of Charles II very satisfying.
For Churchill The History of the English-Speaking Peoples is a story of unstoppable progress towards a set destiny of world hegemony and endless greatness.
It's certainly true that not everything the British have done is worthy of praise, and making excuses for some of the Empire's handiwork is downright shameful to attempt, but I don't think it can be seriously denied that the world is a better place for it, in the end, and the new-founded countries Britain left behind are certainly a proud legacy.
Reading the final sentences, I think Churchill knows this too:  Here is set out a long story of the English-Speaking Peoples.
In other cases - ie: covering 7 adjacent Anglo-Saxon kingdoms from the 6th through 9th centuries, or the constantly evolving succession dramas and blood feuds of the War of the Roses - the very complexity of the history itself makes it difficult to keep track of what is going on.This work clearly evidences Churchill's interest in military history.
The latter certainly makes for a less sexy historical narrative, but Churchill covers it convincingly and with energy.Take his coverage of Edward I as a case in point.
This is one of the greatest histories ever written, on part with Gibbon and Macaulay.
Winston Churchill's command of English history is unparalleled and his style of writing is clear and accessible.
This history is directed at the general public so if you are looking for a serious academic treatment of English history, Churchill's work is not for you.
However, it is a useful read in case you wanted to know more about the names, places, and dates of English history.
Churchill is particularly strong in his treatment of the Tudors, the English Civil War, and the rise of the British Empire.
As a history, it is merely okay. Far too much emphasis is placed on political and military history; social and cultural history is barely mentioned. However, when read as Churchill's take on how the two great democratic powers of the last 200 years arose and evolved from a Roman backwater, it's fascinating.
He includes brief histories of Canada and Australia as well, and his glossing over the treatment of both lands' original inhabitants is callous to the extreme.Churchill almost never reflects upon whether exercises of blatant military or political power were 'right'.
His mastery of political evolution finally clarifies how a country lurched from 'off with their heads!' religion-dominated tyranny to a more civilized state; he explains how the powers of the kings and queens grew and waned.
He puts the great personalities of British politics in context, from their rise, struggle, mastery and fall.
It may sound odd to hear it, but I've reread the first volume of this excellent four-volume series so many times that I can almost quote sections from memory.
What is his trick of making medieval history even more enthralling than, say, Arthurian legends, or the stories of the Merovingians?Churchill's writing carries the dictum: if you don't love history, it's because you had awful history teachers.
So while I have read and reread and reread all four volumes of this series, I note a declining power or punch to his story-telling from first to the fourth.Nevertheless, the series is a wonderfully insightful read into power and politics and the personalities that drive both.
In general very informative.
Given the vast amount of time and covering The commonwealth etc it was a lot to take in.
It was abridged so all of Elizabeth I in 10 pages or so.
Therefore you have to already know a lot or allow the significance of things to not really be clear.
I felt I learned a lot and Churchill’s style was generally readable.
I enjoyed parts of it a lot but some of it not at all.
Military history details of battles number of cannons horses etc generally not that interesting to me.
I’m sure others would appreciate.
I never realized what a wonderful historian Mr. Churchill was. His prose is entertaining and you can tell when he describes the battles that he looks at it from his military and strategic experience. He is very sensitive, too, to the American side of the story when he includes that part of his story.
The man could write.
This is an amazing four-volume history. The perspective of the Author, Winston Churchill, is evident throughout, but it remains a seminal work.
Great books, not too challenging to read, but excellent to review at large the history of Great Britain without missing any important or trascendental information. Keeping in mind that a very extensive period of time is covered in Churchill's work, the books are pretty detailed. Once you start you won't be able to stop. The history of England is not only captivating, but essential to the deeper understanding of pretty much everything that has happened in the last millennia. Worth reading from beginning to end, and you'll end up with hunger for more.
Volume 1 was fantastic but it became too dense and boring for me.
After finishing the fourth volume, The Great Democracies, I hesitated to give a 5 star rating, but this is a fantastic historical work when considering all 4 volumes.
Churchill provided just the right amount of detail on so many pivotal events in the history of the English-speaking peoples.
I also learned more about other parts of the Commonwealth, where I knew England had had influence in the Victorian Age, but never understood how it all fit together.This is a highly recommend project read for anyone interested in the history of the world's English-speaking peoples.Cheers, Sir Winston.
Churchill set himself a formidable task – to write a short history of the English-speaking peoples of the world.
He starts with Britain in Roman times and tells the story all the way to the death of Queen Victoria, covering Great Britain, American, Canada, Australia, New Zealand, South Africa, and India.
He does a good job of covering the political and military history – it really is an overview – but you are not going to learn much about the common person.
He certainly glories in military achievement – he doesn’t try to hide his admiration for great generals and admirals, especially his ancestor John Churchill.
A master word-smith, Churchill brings character and insight to stretches of the book, mostly concerning the comings and goings within the British Parliament, which might otherwise have been dull.
This set of books confirms for me that Churchill is one of the greatest historical writers.
Having read his memoirs of the Second World War, I cannot wait to get into the rest of his works.One added tip: if at all possible, find a dusty old first edition to read.
The extra atmosphere added by the aroma of 'old book' smell helps you drink in the 1000 years of history that Winston guides you through.
I've always taken that to mean that unless I need to sprint up a mountain, I should leave the stuff alone.
And yet there are times in one's life in which a mountain looks as if it's daring one to sprint up it.
Churchill's massive volume of history, which begins in the year 50 before Christ, and ends with the death of Victoria, is much like one of those mountains.
(By the way, I read a one volume abridgment, so we're talking Appalachians, not Alps.) Mountains, I've found, are often worth the clambering over.
Amble up that mountain.
Book #1: The Birth of Britain Good book.
I give it 4 stars.Book #2: The New World This book was good, but, a little harder read than #1.
Covers from approx 1500 to the civil war of 1688.
I give it 3 stars.Book #3: The age of Revolution I had somewhat of a hard time with this volume.
This book covered the 'world war' (from 1688 to the final fall of Napoleon).
I give it 3 stars.Book #4: The Great Democracies I thought this would be the most boring of the set.
its a very good book by a great man (Winston Churchill is the author).
its clear Churchill has a passion for his subject.
British history is clearly a great subject for Churchill.
i only thought that the subject is so massive that it is impossible to fit into even a 1,000 page history.
The subject is just too massive for the format of this book.
All in all - a great read.
All in all - a great read.
Just that the subject is too massive for the size of this volume...
Churchill paints with a very broad brush - so there will be a lot you might want to go back to - but his use of prose and the ability to develop a coherent theme which ties together Great Britain and the US and the rest - is stunning.I actually did the unabridged Audible version when I walk my dog.
The Audible narrator is quite good.There are some parts that I think he gets wrong - especially about the American Constitutional process - but for what it was intended to be it is still very worthwhile.
Getting all the lines and the plots and counterplots - and the evolution of the English political system (which has a lot of Churchills in it) is a complex task.
This is the abridged version I used to follow the unabridged four volume set of Churchill's History of the English-Speaking Peoples.
Although it is an abridgment, it certainly captures the essence of Churchill's style and cuts out the passages containing military and political details (the intricacies of Conservative and Liberal governments during the Victorian era and the tactics of military commanders in minor campaigns for example) the average American might get lost in.
The abridgment is definitely recommended for those interested in reading Churchill's elegant prose without having to wade through hundreds of pages of minutia.
I bought the one-volume edition and it was on my night-stand / in tow for about a year as I nibbled away at it in between other books.
To me it is fascinating that a man so immersed in world-changing events and as occupied as he was, devoted that much time to study, to understand intimately over a thousand years of detailed history.
As other great historians, of whom most, unlike Churchill, have made it their full-time profession, his retelling sounds like he was there personally.
His interpretation of events may be debatable for some, but undeniably impressive.
"Stuff in history that interested me" is the perfect way to describe this work.
Churchill has definite opinions on many historical people and events, and doesn't hesitate to deliver judgement or lavish praise.
It's a great overview of English and US history especially if you like the strategic aspect of battles.
I actually learned quite a bit about Australia, Canada, and South Africa's colonial periods.
The most boring parts for me were the Parliamentary squabblings through the ages, and some of the more drawn-out battle analyses.
This is a loooong one if you're listening to the audiobook like I did, but it's read very well.
I really wasn't sure if I wanted to read a book that was coming out as a movie .
. so soon.But I did.It was really a good read.
The only part that irritates me (which I understand is needed to keep the storyline intriguing) is when a character is confused about what is going on and 'thinks' about questions but doesn't ask them, or doesn't insist on answers when they do.
Occasionally I read a book that has faced this dilemma and managed to have a more realistic reason why they aren't getting the necessary answers, rather than ...
Not done here.All in all a good book The end ...
This collection is informative and interesting.
The first two contain information about the British Isles from Antiquity to I believe 1641.
It's a pretty neat time in British History as far as I am concerned.
The next two books get really heavy into politics and military ventures.
The last books talks about the American Civil War for a long time.
It was a pretty good and easy history to read.
There are definite prejudices and it is not a traditional "history" but it is informative and provides an interesting look at American History as well the history of the British Empire.
