https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7354.The_Shipping_News
Instead, Proulx builds her momentum slowly, slowly, taking you deeper into the lives of these characters, who started out so hard, unattractive, broken, and nasty.
Wanted to be in the boat with Quoyle.
Quoyle finds redemption from a place that itself is bleak, full of hardship, and dying.
Instead, the story of a middle-aged man who hates himself even more than he hates his circumstance, moving back to his modest roots, finding a lot of darkness in the places he comes from.
This dying place brings him to life, and eventually, for the first time in his life, he finds joy and peace.
Like with almost every other Pulitzer darling, we accompany the protagonist for the entire ride, & this one is exceptionally literary in that brave, EveryMan-type way.
Many novels read like this, and usually the one in that particular year earns itself magnanimous acclaim.
Because, after all, as the drama becomes more elevated, the protagonist becomes somewhat...
As the atmosphere becomes a desolated (desperate?) return to simplicity, the token characters pile on--the thesis being that with more people around the sadness which is omnipresent is diminished.
GET THERE, people.
So far this is a great read, this book is a little gem.
Had to get used to the language and the different way of storytelling, but this story, I love it so far!
Finished it today and what a great book to start 2010 with.
I loved it!Loved the story, the characters, the description of the surroundings and the community, the way it is written, loved everything about it.
This is a feel good story, at least that's how I felt it.
Read the most of the book in London pubs.
A five star, beautiful gem.

(okay so my neighbours may think I am a little hinky) This is a great story, with a cast of truly colourful characters but if you will bear with me for just a moment, I would like to talk about what this book, wrong or right, said to me.You cannot leave your past behind, no matter where you travel, there too, it is.Everyone is worthy, not all heroes are tall, dark, handsome, beautiful, sexy, confident or comfortable in their own skin.You cannot run, but you can dig deep and you can find a new hope, a new joy in life.Family is defined not only by blood but also by bond, by those who are there, in the dark and the light.These homes of love we build, house many rooms, sanded and painted in the shades and colours of our life, furnished with those moments that, however inconsequential they may seem to others, have in fact, defined us.
If I were as clever and witty as some of my GR friends (you know who you are), I would have written this review in the style of the book.Anyway, some typical examples:This is the entire opening paragraph of a chapter:"The aunt in her woolen coat when Quoyle came into the motel room.
Each chapter opens with a quotation pertinent to what it contains, and many are from Ashley Book of Knots, which Proulx found second-hand, and gave her the inspiration and structure she sought.
I didn't care what happened to whom or how it would end, I just wanted it over.
Enough to make you want to shout FIRE!
And the names--nearly every one of them strange, and (to me) irksome.
I couldn't decide through the entire book how to pronounce Quoyle--with a hard C or with a Kw. Wavey reminded me of Wavy Gravy.
Last names (often used alone) were bizarre as well.
Quoyle (double whammy, first and last).
Good thing Proulx's Brokeback Mountain is a short story, because I still do want to read that.
The book moves, it actually moves, as you read it.There are moments of such pain like when Quoyle lies still in his bed as Petal Bear fucks another man in their home--and it's not written in a way where you feel pity or anger; but you identify, I mean you get still like Quoyle--or I did...There is this triplet of sentences where Quoyle realizes Bunny may fall from the ladder she is beginning to climb and when I read it, I felt my stomach drop and had a quick intake of breath--but those sentences were non dramatic, not written to scare or startle--it wasn't even the sentences that got me like that, it was like this weird pause orchestrated by creative punctuation.Oh I really can't explain it...I just think this book is one of the best books I have ever read and by the way, the movie sucked something rancid and you should never see it.
A disappointment to his pull-yourself-up-by-the-bootstraps father and walked over by his abusive wife Petal Bear, Quoyle's misfortunes continue when his terminally ill parents commit ritual suicide and Petal is killed in a car accident, having sold their daughters Bunny and Sunshine to sex traffickers on her way out the door.Quoyle's only family (and the most realized character in the novel) is his paternal aunt Agnis Hamm, a yacht upholsterer who suggests her nephew and children need a fresh start.
In the case of The Shipping News, it's difficult to find any positives, simply down to Proulx's writing style which I never could grasp hold of, along with dialogue that annoyed the hell out of me.
Becoming acquainted with the locals, Quoyle sutters along in life whilst trying to adapt to his surroundings, all the while weary of his daughters, and the affect it had on their own upbringing.Proulx does do a wonderful job when describing Newfoundland, this was just about as good as it got for me, and after a promising opening setting the scene, I actually was looking forward in a positive light.
A love story of a single father, a newspaper reporter, who returns to Newfoundland to live in an ancestral home and meets a local woman.
Everyone in the present is haunted in some way by the victims in the past claimed by nature, usually by the sea.
They are overweight or pock-marked or not quite attractive, in that left-behind kind of way, and they are all damaged in some way, usually by the loss of loved ones to nature.
But the characters are small specks against the giant backdrop of rock, sea and storms.
Man and woman against nature.
However wild the events, crashing and buffeting against the rocky coast it is the quietness that predominates and wins out.It is the kind of novel that wins prizes, because it is healing book, the past here is full of horror but in the present all those horrors are firmly confronted, resolved, stitched up, frayed ends knotted, no loose ends left and the future the author assures us can be happy irrespective of sexuality, personal needs or even the economy.
No victim of sophomore jinx, The Shipping News gave Annie a double boost: it won both the National Book Award and the Pulitzer prize for Fiction - one of just six books picked by both juries, and has subsequently been adapted into a film.Born in Brooklyn and raised in a mix of small upstate towns, Quoyle is definitely not having the time of his life.
The population of the province decresed by about 60,000, as many families were forced to leave the rock which borne them and hope for a life elsewhere.It is to this rock that Quoyle comes with his children and aunt, to the post-Confederation but also post-cod Newfoundland, where those who remain try to survive.
Unfortunately this formidable prose is completely lacking in any mitigating humour that would save it from being heavy, dull and dreary to read.It might be that some shade of humour and likability may edge it’s way between the covers after the man starts the job after which the book is named.
(November 7) There is room for all books in the world, it is good that we do not all read (or write, alike) this review is my opinion however and in my opinion overblown descriptiveness is a cheap and nasty way of convincing people that they are reading high quality literature when they are (usually) not.
I am glad that I put these challenges for me and because of them I am reading all these different books.
Neither I hated nor I loved it.The Shipping News revolve around Quoyle who had a tough childhood and equally tough twenties.
There he changed himself into a responsible father, and a person people look up to when they think that they are in need of help and this person will never disappoint them.
It fell a little too short of my expectations.
I just fell in love with the writing so I am definitely reading another book by Annie Proulx.
It's not just that the story is rich in and of itself - and it is - it's that the words themselves are so artfully assembed that they provide layers of undercurrents that add depth and emotion to the narrative.
This book reads like a symphony, with many intertwined themes and narratives all woven together into a whole, unified picture.
But when the story shifts location - in the first of several deeply satisfying views of fair-handed fate - the choppiness of the words begin to work in concert with the setting.
In the end, she's created a lovely, satisfying book without the slightest hint of syrup, contrivance or manipulation.
You know, nautical knots, fisherman's knots, each chapter beginning with a sketch of the intricate knot and its name.And I can only tie my shoes.
On a good day.I don't remember nautical terms.
But I know knots.
And, reading this unnerving masterpiece, you feel the knots.
Because disaster looms in every page of this beauty.
Life in Newfoundland.Horrible, near-grotesque people.
People you would never want to know, or date.
And OUTSTANDING writing, as in STANDS OUT from anything I've ever read in my life.
I shook my head in awe, shook my head on every page, as I swallowed around the knots in my neck.This novel left me shipwrecked.
National Book Award--1993Pulitzer Prize--1994Many of today's "modern writers" have styles so similar, or maybe a better way to say it, their lack of style makes it hard to distinguish their differences.
But there are a few out there that have very distinct writing styles that set them apart, that give them a unique and recognizable identity.
Through Annie Proulx words I feel like I have a sense for what it's like, right or wrong, I don't know.
The setting and the characters became real to me while reading The Shipping News.
It's certainly deserving of it's awards and acclaim.
The blurb: When Quoyle's two-timing wife meets her just desserts, he retreats with his two daughters to his ancestral home on the starkly beautiful Newfoundland coast, where a rich cast of local characters and family members all play a part in Quoyle's struggle to reclaim his life. As Quoyle confronts his private demons--and the unpredictable forces of nature and society--he begins to see the possibility of love without pain or misery. A vigorous, darkly comic, and at times magical portrait of t
When Quoyle's two-timing wife meets her just desserts, he retreats with his two daughters to his ancestral home on the starkly beautiful Newfoundland coast, where a rich cast of local characters and family members all play a part in Quoyle's struggle to reclaim his life.
An excellent read combining heartbreak, healing and pulling it all together when a community of people with their own stories to share, become the backbone of a new life for Quoyle and his two daughters.
Folk tales, family secrets, history, and nature become characters in the book.
Proulx is a master manipulator in this story as she forces the reader to sympathize with Quoyle's situation.
"In the bay they saw a scallop dagger halfway to the narrows, a wake like the hem of a slip showing behind it." I feasted on this line because I loved it so much and you can look forward to this richness throughout the story.Proulx makes Newfoundland come to life.
For those who like stories about how a person can change and the influence of the land on the mind, this book is for you.
I understand why is that there are negative reviews about this book. I also had a hard time finishing this book because there are some parts that are dull or not that interesting. But overall, I enjoyed the 3/4 of the novel and I guess I could only recommend this to those who can devote a lot of time to be able to finish this book.
Annie Proulx, so all the characters are named things like "Tobogganlips McCupboardcake" and everyone endures a series of darkly humorous, preciously rendered misfortunes.
Though the movie was nothing to write home about either, I actually liked it better than the book, for the enjoyable scenery, half-decent performances, and dearth of skull-shatteringly dippy prose.
It's not like it's the worst thing I've ever read, and I never entertained the thought of quitting mid-book with any real seriousness.
I did, however, do a lot of groaning and eye-rolling, both favorite pastimes of mine so in the end it wasn't a total loss.
It is made on deck, so that it may be walked on if necessary."THE ASHLEY BOOK OF KNOTSThe above is the first thing we read on page one and a perfect introduction to our protagonist, Quoyle, a passive figure when we meet him that has been tread upon repeatedly.
Some very dramatic, life-altering events transpire in quick succession, leaving our sad-sack of a protagonist un-moored, allowing him to be taken up by the momentum of an aunt that heretofore he had not met, and thus the story has it's real beginning as the entirety of the remaining, and newly introduced family, make for their ancestral home in Newfoundland.Proulx's writing style is interesting in an understated yet flourishing way (as if that makes any sense).
His aunt, Agnis Hamm, comes to help out and suggests that he make a clean break of things and start over--by moving with her and the kids to Newfoundland, to live in the old ancestral home out on Quoyle's Point.
The house has been standing empty for the past forty years but maybe it is still habitable, and luckily, there's a job available at the weekly newspaper, writing a column on the shipping news.
Annie Proulx's style of writing calls to mind the old saying of new shoes and how they pinch the feet until the owner gets used to them, or is it the shoes that get used to the owner?
At first it seemed as though just as I was getting into the story, it would make a jerk and toss me off my course until at some point the fragments seemed to align themselves and what was the final piece, was a beautiful mosaic, exquisitely rendered.Quoyle, the main character in this novel, is an outcast with what he calls generational ill luck.
He slowly comes to a point of self-realisation, surrounded by a community that offers friendship and love.
Snore.
By my calculation, Annie Proulx owes me close to $20, and several unrecoverable hours of my life.
Not only did I buy and read this wretched book, but - inexplicably - I forked out another $7 to go see the equally wretched movie.
I suppose I have only myself to blame for the latter exercise in misjudgement, given that I knew in advance how appallingly bleak the book was, and that it involved the wretchedly vile Kevin Spacey.gaaaaah!OK, so Annie P.
Spacey still has his own special reserved circle of hell, though, if there is any justice in this world, or the next.

Such a dreary story with uninteresting characters in a drab setting. It just wasn't for me.
BORING
