https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/105657.Beyond_the_Deepwoods
One thing I will say for this author is that he is very good at making up magical creatures with amazing names and his illustrator is equally good at drawing them!
The story is good and follows young Twig who does not really know who he is and sets out on a journey of discovery.
There is a very neat ending which simultaneously ties up the loose ends of this book and sets the scene for the sequel.Really intended as a book for young, young adults but equally readable for oldies with young hearts.
Oh my god, what an entertaining and enjoyable read about adventure, hope and never giving up even in the most dire circumstances.I don't really know where to start with the story, there is so much going on and you as the reader really feel like you're right there in the adventure with Twig (who is a lovable little character), you follow him through impossible situations that he always manages to get out of because he's so filled with hope and spirit.
You can feel the centuries old suspicions about certain creatures and places on the map, and if you aren't afraid of the Gloamglozer then you aren't human.
I was really surprised about this book.
I did love the fact that there was so many different creatures and adventures going on.
I do agree with the person that said they were surprised that the story got wrapped up so neatly with so much random stuff going on.
This is definately not a book for those that want cutesy creatures.
But if your looking for something that is a little odd, and a little different this is the book.
The personal journey in this book at first started off like everyone else, the boy who doesn't belong is looking to belong.
Yes, my 11th birthday was somewhat spoiled with the absence of a letter from Hogwart's, but it's no time to dwell on that.I remember first reading this aged 11, at a very unhappy time in my childhood, and it was the very best escape into fantasy I could have hoped for.
I am really shocked that it continues to lie so far under the radar.I have read the earlier books in the series dozens of times over the years, and have recently discovered a couple of newer ones that I haven't read, so I will be re-reading the entire series again.
Every time I re-read them, the books never lose their magical quality, never become old.
3 starsBook #1 of the series The Edge Chronicles I fell in love with Twig.
Forever thinking he was a Wood Troll, when he finds out he is not, he starts a journey to find out who he is.
Always in fear of the Gloamglozer, Twig navigates the woods full of nasty beasts and man eating trees.
He encounters Hover Worms, Slaughterers, the Blood Oak, the Gyle Goblins, Rotsuckers, and Termagant Trogs, among others.
Along the way he buddies up with the Banderbear and the Caterbird, who help him when most needed.
Finally he encounters the Sky Pirates and finds his home.
This is a YA series.
The setting is dark and colourful and a little bit twisted, with frequent gross-out moments to appeal to the target audience.
There is an extremely diverse cast of characters.The Bad:Many of the scenes appeared to randomly follow the last one, a theme repeated in the setting – a lot of bizarre stuff occurs for no given reason.
The chief antagonist doesn’t play a significant role (view spoiler)[other than to assume disguise and inexplicably rescue the hero throughout the story (hide spoiler)].'Friends' character the protagonist is most like:Twig is a young boy who is looking for somewhere to fit in.
3 stars for the story and so many characters that beautifully described in so much details, wonderful graphics in the book and 1 star for the ending. It was a good end to the story, finishing first book with an appropriate plot for the main character to be introduced and leaving the reader in a position that they know it's the beginning of a great journey for him . Definitely going to read the next book in this trilogy.The best thing I enjoyed in this book was the vast numbers of metaphors that fit everyday life of ours.
  Saeed.
This book was thoroughly unexpected!
I had a lot of love for Twig - he was a lovable character, a relatable little guy who doesn't fit in with his Woodtroll family and so sets off to find himself and his destiny in the Deepwoods.
What he finds is a magical array of fantastical and imaginative animals and beings, the majority of which want to eat or kill him!I loved this book, really enjoyed the fast paced story, it completely transported me to the world of the Deepwoods and I am excited to see what the other books have in store!
Every time I read this book I remember again how much I absolutely adore everything about it. The Edgeworld, the Deepwoods, the creatures and characters, the gorgeous sketches, the plot - EVERYTHING. I will, at some point, write an actual review but for now I'll just say (like a little kid) IloveitIloveitIloveit IwantitIwantitIwantit!
Beyond the Deepwoods (The Edge Chronicles #1), Paul Stewart, Chris Riddell
At the time, I had no book to read.
It had a few twists and turns that I did not expect...actually, the entire book was a twist and a turn.
A few of the main points of the story did surprise me and a few shocked me deeply.Even though this is written for children, it is a bit dark and some overbearing parents might not like their kids being exposed to situations like death even if they are artfully presented.
However, anticipation is constant.The main character is the usual weak male that finds his strength along the way, but the story is generally unique and pleasing.
I thought HP took me to a whole new world, when Paul Stewart and Chris Riddle had this beautiful book and series just sitting in my library, waiting to be discovered.
We follow Twig, a young humanoid character on his journey across The Edge, a fantasy world full to the brim with creatures and animals that both terrify and amaze us.
I read it within two hours and was already back at the library, getting every other book in the series out.
Mythical critters info dumping things about their world that they already know.
I loved every aspect of this book, it was just as enchanting as the first time I read it, and can at least say that it's as good as all the previous books I've read.
Was jetzt an sich nicht schlimm wäre, aber ich bin mit dem Handlungsablauf nicht so wirklich klargekommen.Wenn ich das Buch jetzt rein für Kinder bewerten würde, könnte ich 4 Sterne vergeben, aber mir persönlich hat es leider nicht so gefallen.Im ersten Kapitel hat einen guten Überblick über das Klippenland bekommen, in dem die Geografie sehr schön beschrieben wurde.
Ich konnte mit der Figur von Twig nicht wirklich viel anfangen - er wirkte etwas unschlüssig in allem, was er tat und oft auch unbeteiligt, als wäre ihm alles egal, was passiert, oder würde ihn nicht wirklich berühren.Mir kam es so vor, als träfe er in jedem Kapitel auf ein anderes seltsames Geschöpf, hat damit eine Auseinandersetzung - und weiter gehts mit dem nächsten.
Grāmata jau kādu laiku bija stāvējusi manas istbas plauktā, līdz beidzot nolēmu to izlasīt.
Audžuvecāki, kas pēc izcelsmes ir troļļi, viņu atrada mežā, kad viņš vēl bija ļoti mazs zēns.
Zarēns diemžēl nepaklausīja padomam un viņu aizrāva mēžonīgu piedzīvojumu un briesmu virpulis.Šīs grāmatas valodas stils ir interesants, un gandrīz katra rindkopa atklāj ko nezināmu.
Autori ir iekļāvuši arī neskaitāmi daudz salīdzinājumu un epitetu, kas labāk ļauj atklāt sižeta straujos pavērsienus.Galvenā varoņa unikālā izcelsme piedāvā lasītājam ceļot cauri daudzajiem šķēršļiem, kā caur savdabīgām puzlēm, ko radījuši autori.
Pēc grāmatas izlasīšanas, ikvienam lasītājam, arī man, tai skaitā, rodas vēlme izlasīt grāmatas turpinājumu.Grāmata sniedza priekšsatu par fantastikas žanra moderno versiju.
The beast on the front is called a banderbear, it's a timid creature and nothing messes with it except these little, evil, ferocious, fur balls called wig-wigs.
One day(or should I say night) they were looking for a place to sleep when the main character spotted a orange ball of fur then the banderbear turned around, saw the ball of fur, then yelled wig-wigs.
The ball of fur then turned into multiple balls of and started to chase after the banderbear.
When it was over the main character looked down to find nothing remaining of his old friend, the only thing he had was the tooth around his neck.
Well this book was completely full-on throughout!
And the same moments stand out to me every time.
It's been years since I read it the first few times, and I'm extremely lucky to have met one of the authors and the illustrator, Chris Riddell :D He's so charismatic and I can totally see him imagining and creating this world with Paul Stewart.The little illustrations definitely helped with the speed I read it XD But they're essential to the story!
Everyone would have completely different pictures, and also the length it would take to describe them would make the book twice as long.
Middle-grade fantasy books are probably the best way to get out of a reading slump, especially when they are as magical, whimsical and creative like this one. First of all I absolutely loved Chris Riddles illustrations through the whole novel, they were a great way to bring Paul Stewart good description of the creatures to life. I also think that the world-building is great and very detailed, especially for a childrens book. All the different places on the Edge which were described in the beginn
Middle-grade fantasy books are probably the best way to get out of a reading slump, especially when they are as magical, whimsical and creative like this one.
First of all I absolutely loved Chris Riddle´s illustrations through the whole novel, they were a great way to bring Paul Stewart good description of the creatures to life.
All the different races and creatures were probably my favorite thing in the book and I am very excited what species we will see in the other novels because until now we only saw a very small part of this world.
A great (re)read for me, i read the entire series years ago and as this book was chosen for our January readalong in the book club it was the perfect opportunity to read them again.As i have read the pre- and sequels, even if half a decade ago, the memories slowly returned as i read. Not enough at ones to lessen the fun but so that i would wait with a grin for Twig to stumble into the next problem.A great book, a great series. Highly recommended.
This book is about a 13 year old Twig who discovers that he was abandoned at birth by a unknown person.
Twig goes on a long journey through Deepwoods to try to get back his family.
It's a fairy tail book and I'm not a fan of books of that kind.
I was so deep into the book.I wouldn't recommend this book to people who are like me, and dont like reading fairy tail books.
If i were to rate this book out of ten, i would give it a two.
[4 Stars] Just as whimsical and enjoyable as the first time I read it.
Full of suspense and imaginative...after the Quint trilogy, I'm happy to go back to the world of The Edge Chronicles. Twig has such incredible (mis)adventures in Deepwoods and it's a great contrast to the city adventures plot of Quint. Can't wait to read more.
This is one of the books I devoured when I was a child and still remember quite clearly today.
The inspiration might have been Red Riding Hood: Don't leave the path.
But well: When does any character in any book follow that advice?
The story then winds through the forest and suprises us with the most unexpected beasts, dangerous situations and escapes.
As if that wasn't enough, it also treats topics like familiy, belongig, growing, mourning and search for identity.
One more thing that's making this book a great read: Famous Chris Riddell did the illustrations (and there are so many of them!)
I loved this book instantly.
Maybe even before I started reading it.
The cover is way cooler than this pic they have.The art of the book is so amazing.
The map of The Edge is amazing.
What an amazing adventure story.
Its a kids book-i saw it in the childrens section at the library and was drawn to the fancy cover.
It reminds me of Bilbo's adventures in the HObbit but not so hard to read.
A very quick easy-fun read.
I loved it and its only the first book-there are like 8 more I think-I cant wait to go get them :)
This entire series is well worth a read, even if it takes you a few months (It certainly took me a long time, and I'm a fast reader!).The series is made up of three trilogies, a book that is basically a one book trilogy, and then another trilogy that is still being written.
The trilogies are spread out in time and all focus on a different member of the main family line.
Each of these are so radically different - and they change over the course of the trilogies.
The other fascinating thing about the series is how the social hierarchy changes over time.In my opinion, the first book is rather boring.
Back then I read this in Dutch and the amazing cover art drew me in from the first moment I set eyes on it at the library.I have to say I do still love it.
It makes sense for it to feel more like a guided experience for him.
I love how this world can actively try to kill the protagonist, but still be filled with wonderful things and creatures.
This series always makes me feel inspired because of the combination of story and artwork and I just want to own this entire series already!
Plot Summary: The plot is always changing throughout the novel, at first the plot was that Twig was to leave his village and go live with his uncle.
However, Twig did not stick to the path in the deepwoods, his motives changed from going to his uncles house and finding the path again, to making it out of the deepwoods in any way that he could.
Characterization: The main character in the story is Twig, he is a shy, depressed soul at the beginning of the novel.
Throughout the novel Twig develops a sense of purpose and courage that fuels him to keep going.
Although the sticker on the front of my copy states that those who have read 'Harry Potter' would enjoy this, I have to say that the Edge Chronicles have no relation to Rowling's world and its joy and originality stand happily on their own two feet.
The pace throughout the book is as quick as the world is rich in creatures and encounters.
I really enjoyed the cast throughout - all enriched and explored through Riddell's pen drawings.
Still, a rich tapestry of characters and places and I would certainly travel back.
Mit diesem Buch eröffnet sich dem Leser eine Welt, die riesig ist und gefährlich, voller fantastischer Figuren und Abenteuern. Es ist auch eher ein Jugend- als ein Kinderbuch, da mit den Figuren nicht zimperlich umgegangen wird. Sie müssen sich ständig bewähren und ein Fehler in dieser gefährlichen Welt kann den Tod bedeuten. Die Klippenland-Chroniken sind eine der schönsten Highfantasy-Reihen für Jugendliche, die ich kenne. Und sie besitzt wunderbare Illustrationen, was für ein Jugendbuch schon ungewöhnlich ist. Chris Riddell kann einfach toll zeichnen.
