https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/34466922-sleeping-beauties
Once a serious conflict commences—a fight to the death—objective reality is quickly lost in the smoke and noise.Also, many of those who could have added their own accounts were dead. As I was reading Sleeping Beauties, I was trying to find the words in my mind to sum up what I felt about the story - and Stephen King's stories in general - but then I got to the Authors' Note and discovered that they had done it for me: "If a fantasy novel is to be believable, the details underpinning it must be
As I was reading Sleeping Beauties, I was trying to find the words in my mind to sum up what I felt about the story - and Stephen King's stories in general - but then I got to the Authors' Note and discovered that they had done it for me: "If a fantasy novel is to be believable, the details underpinning it must be realistic."^This is what I think makes King Sr's stories so strong.
As women around the world go to sleep, the men around them find they are not waking up.
I've read that King really needs a good editor.
He threw everything and the kitchen sink into this chunk and my dumb butt kept reading it thinking it would get better.
If authors start writing FICTION books just to pound out their political views I'm going to take up a new hobby.
In the end..will I read Stephen King again?
Hell yeah, Will I read a book co-written with one of his kids again?
Probably, because let's face it-If my dad was Stephen King I'd want to 'write' a book with him too.Does the King family give a shit what I think?
The story of people in a remote town trapped by mysterious circumstances .
the story of a mysterious disease and the fight between good and evil .
that's The Green Mile!Anyway, this is a pretty good book that brings back a lot of themes from earlier King novels.
Not me - if you told me that ol' Stevie wrote the whole thing, I would believe it.For a 700 page book I felt like it went pretty quick.
But, if you are looking for a bit of King nostalgia after the Hodges Trilogy - which didn't feel all that much like King - then this is worth a try.
I might have missed some more but I caught those two and King fans will know where those references come from =) There are a lot of characters in this book and I loved most of them!
I was so enthralled every time I picked up this book to read on it that I didn't write anything down.
One day something happens, I'm not going to say what but there is a force that comes into our presence.
. READ THE BOOK!
=D It's a really freaking awesome book.
I think they made a fan-freaking-tastic book.
That's it?16 days later and I'm FINALLY finished. I feel completely drained by this book and hope to write a review in the next week, but for now I think it's safe to say I didn't feel this was one of King's stronger books. I'll gather my notes together and hopefully make a compelling argument for why this didn't work well for me. BUT I MADE IT I CROSSED THE FINISH LINE AND I DIDN'T QUIT!
How about: if smart books were good reads, Don DeLillo would outsell Stephen King.
Stephen King (for all my hero worship) does not write smart books.
It has the cast from Under the Dome, a gender-swapped Andre Linoge (for you non-King nuts out there, he's the bad guy from Storm of the Century: An Original Screenplay) named Evie Black, and the most Condensed-Books version of The Stand you will likely ever read.
And if you're a King fan you know that none of his books that start with a cast list are any good.
Not sure yet!In a world where women have fallen asleep in cocoons, the men are left to figure things out.
The premise was super intriguing but I'm not 100% sure I'm happy with the ending.
This book contained a lot of characters.
A LOT.
I did appreciate most of the feminist views included although it sometimes bordered on the "m'lady hat tipping" side.This book also featured one of my new most hated character of all time!
Congrats Don Peters, you're a POS!
:DI'll probably update this review when I have more time to think about it.
Rather, the novel proves itself a tiresome, often grandiose, fantasy-soapbox that is sure to please only the most hardcore King fans.The novel opens in the small Appalachian town of Dooling, West Virginia, when a nubile nude woman, with green pubic hair and moths fluttering from her mouth, strolls out from behind a mammoth tree in a large clearing to bludgeon a local meth dealer who abuses his girlfriend.
I love King books because they are insanely freaky and crazy! This time you get that entertainment from two Kings and it was so amusing. You have a fantasy (with some sci-fi vibes) about a world where most of the women have fallen asleep and have been cocooned leaving the world to a wide variety of male characters. Both the male and female characters are written so well and amusing. Overall, yes it is a 700+ page book but it is worth it for that slow burn that keeps you interested. It's a King book so you just expect it!
I support quality father-son bonding, though, so for that I feel less guilty about wasting $20 and 20+ hours of my life on it.
My one positive comment is that Sleeping Beauties is more interesting than rush hour traffic.
The narrator did a great job adding vocal personality to otherwise lifeless characters.So why is it such a disaster?
In those moments I imagined Daddy King working overtime to breathe life into an arc that was clearly going downhill fast.
Maybe we will eventually look back on Sleeping Beauties as a historical document, the teething ring that lead to many great things from Owen.
Not a classic king horror book but perhaps that is the input of Owen as much as that is Stephen veering down another path.Carrying a veiled message perhaps for this day and age about the poor treatment that women receive at the hands of men and perhaps too an eye-opening slap in the face for men.
And if you still feel riled just take solace in the fact that this is, at the end of the day, just a fictional novel.So to this point, you can see that I liked this read.
Trying to get that mixture right is one of the places where I think the book falls down a bit because the more hardnosed elements where people are having to come to terms with what’s happening and prepare for the worst was more compelling than when it went deeper into the paranormal realm aspects of Evie.
Mission accomplished, but I’m not sure that made for the best book possible.Another interesting bit in that interview is that this started out as a potential TV series that they wrote some scripts for, and I think that shows through in some of the structure.
How would men handle a world without women?I’ve been intrigued by this book since the cover art was released, and immediately put myself on hold for it at my local library.
These sleeping beauties left the men of the world completely flabbergasted and the women still clinging to consciousness terrified of long blinks.
What would a world without women, or a world without men for that matter, look like for the gender left behind?
Evie appeared in Dooling right as Aurora was making its first appearances in the town and prison, and a lot of people think that she has something to do with the sleeping sickness.
The first half of the book felt like a Stephen King idea to me and a current-day King read, however the second half just lacked that punch that King usually delivers.I guess my main complaint that is I didn't really FEEL anything reading this.
I did enjoy it overall, don't get me wrong, it's a great idea, a great premise, but the second half let me down and so I'd give this book 4 stars out of 5.
Quick!  Would someone please pass me the No-Doze?  The ladies in Sleeping Beauties could have used it, but I needed a double dose my own bad self before it was over.  This started out strong and had me wondering why so many of my GR buddies were less than enchanted with it.  I get it now.  It wasn't a total snooze-fest, but overall it was a disappointing read for this particular Constant Reader.
Tucked away in the prison is that aforementioned stranger, Eve Black, who appears to be immune to the cocooning and enjoys restful sleep without consequence.
Eve Black remains that character that King uses in most of his novels, the unknown individuals who brings chaos to the forefront while remaining calm and even endearing.
Both Kings seek to have the characters explore this anomaly throughout the novel, while also facing some of the concerns of a town disintegrating at the hands of its female population falling by the wayside, particularly when Eve’s immunity becomes common knowledge.
Not bad....Not bad at all...
A moth flutters from the branch of the old oak tree and settles on her hand It's been a while since I read a book by Stephen King.
Until a few years ago (okay I think it was possibly 20 years ago when I was a teenager hahaha), he was by far my favourite author.
My second favourite author was Clive Barker.
I used to read so many horror books and I did not mind at all the fact that King was considered an entertainer, not really a quality author.
If you wanted to read q
It's been a while since I read a book by Stephen King.
I used to read so many horror books and I did not mind at all the fact that King was considered an entertainer, not really a quality author.
Anyway, thank God, a few Oscars for films based on Stephen King's books have certainly helped to upgrade the author.The truth is that I have never really considered him a true horror author.
I love the way he describes details, the way that every detail finds its place in the end of the book, the way each detail has a meaning and a purpose.
The long and short of it is this: women are falling asleep, those not asleep yet are living on red bull trying to stay awake, one woman (Evie) appears to be not affected by it and may have even caused it, men are either trying to help figure out what is happening or are up to no good.
Some reviewers are stating that they can tell what parts Stephen King wrote vs.
In the beginning of the book, I thought "Yes!" this is S.King's part..but then the entire book felt that way to me so I guess, I really couldn't tell the difference.I often wondered while reading this book "What's the point?" and "What is the message?" Is there one?
An official picture of the manuscript! GIVE IT TO ME!!!
When I started to read Sleeping Beauties, a collaboration between Stephen King and son Owen, I felt sure that I was getting into another 5☆ masterpiece.
The first third kept my interest levels high, although I often had to abandon it in favor of Netgalley reads that needed to be reviewed because they were due for publication.
I felt like my wheels were spinning a little.
It is an exceedingly long read at 714 pages, which I have come to expect from Mr King.
3.25☆ seems fair to me.I wish I could have liked Sleeping Beauties better.
I'm so glad that I have this book a chance.
I had read so many meh reviews, that I just kept putting it off.
I should know better than that!
I loved this book!
I don't think I've been this satisfied with a King book in many years.
Yes, I liked The Outsider, and Kings recent trilogy, but they just weren't quite weird enough for me.
Sleeping Beauties felt like a King book of old.
I don't know or care who did the majority of the writing here.
Father or son?
Either/both, the thing was a winner for me.
As the women fall asleep, and nobody knows what's causing it, what it means, or whether the women will ever wake up again, chaos immediately ensues and societal stability collapses, because who will cook and clean and make babies and then take care of them and crochet decorative end-table doilies and remember when the mortgage is due and ensure men have clean underwear and matching socks and ironed undershirts and shit, and just generally enable men's lives?Eventually, the women of Dooling, WV (who stand in for ALL women) are offered a choice - to stay Treeside and continue building their society and form a new world based around the ideals of womankind, or return home to the cruel man-filled real world.
It definitely wasn't a classic King horror story but I was drawn in from the start and quickly fell in love with the characters and the story.
It was absolutely seamless, I couldn't pick out what was Stephen and what was Owen even if I tried!
My favourite part of the story was definitely the characters.
And there were so many great ones to pick from in Sleeping Beauties!
My favourite is definitely Lila though, she stole the show for me right from the start.
I honestly couldn't have loved this book more.
An absolutely brilliant story that I already can't wait to reread!
I found them to have a hell of a lot of pages dedicated to their magicalness and I hated them the whole time.
Oh, and we can thank Mr. King as well for our societal fear of clowns.Liked:There is a lot of girl power in this book.
Hated:Although I am all for a good girl-power theme, the world of men seemed to fall apart a little too fast for me.
Pages and pages of those bad guys that were added in really late and didn't need to be in the book at all.Too long!Still, overall, it was a pretty good book and I got engrossed in the story.
Oh come on, 720 pages?!

I prefer less characters in a book like this not the whole town, but luckily quite a few didn't last too long.This is the story of a small town, Dooling, and what happened to it after all the women in the town started to fall asleep, and not wake up.
I always enjoy the way in which Stephen King's characters are so real, so flawed, but the reader still roots for them( well, not all of them), and each character felt very real and very well-fleshed out that I could easily picture them.I have to say, that the two authors' writing blends together seamlessly.
And I think it's because this book is more Owen than Stephen.Full disclosure, I have never read Owen King.
It felt to me like Owen had the bones of an idea, Stephen provided some advice, and then Owen did the majority of the writing.I've had friends passionately argue that isn't the case.
Sons didn't care about the world they left for their sons or for their daughters, although they said they did when the time came to run for office."If that isn't an axe to grind, I don't know what is, and I also think it's incredibly unfair to the amazing men in this world who are gentle and loving and care about women and the planet.

Interesante premisa: un mundo en el que una enfermedad llamada “la enfermedad del sueño” está haciendo que todas las mujeres del mundo duerman sin poder despertarse.
¿Cómo se comportarían los hombres en un mundo sin mujeres?
Eso sí, para la cantidad de personas que describen en el libro casi todas están excelentemente desarrolladas y con una personalidad propia muy bien formada.
Lo mejor: el mundo que crea King junto a Owen , los personajes bien hechosLo peor: excesivamente largo y tedioso por partes
