https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/313356.Best_Little_Word_Book_Ever
I am not sure how many children will remember 'measuring spoons','flight attendant', 'propeller plane' etcSomething that jarred me was the spelling of axe.
I am so used to it being 'axe' that when I read 'ax' it made me question the reliability of the book, until I discovered it was an alternate spelling.
It's a decent enough book though, and with a bit of imagination when reading it aloud, I am sure that children will enjoy it.
I loved this as a child and I am now brainwashing my son.
I do find many of the books I've read to my baby to be irritating, because they seemed to be written by mediocre writers who think stringing together random words that rhyme in a couplet makes for poetry, giving no other thought to structure, stress, or meter, because, you know, "it's for kids, and what do kids know, right?" But even those irritating little children's books don't attract my hatred the way this little word book has.Removing the self-aggrandizing adjective, "best", this little word book is exactly what it advertises itself to be, a book with words in it.
This is a "_____." Look and name, look and name, all through the book.The book can serve two developmental "purposes": First of all, tapping into the voracious (unconscious) desires of the three and four year old to build vocabulary...
I remember looking at this book endlessly, never tiring of naming--naming naming naming--a distinct developmental function both enjoyable and useful.
The three year old vacuums it up, and it all becomes a part of their language skills.Secondarily, the book can help a child to read.
Enjoyed this when I was younger.
Mommy read this book to me that we got from the library
Reviews with SpencerSpencer (3.5) liked the idea of this but didn't get into it as there was a lack of story and he enjoyed playing with tapping the screen more than reading the book
Very nice beginner (board) book of beginning words.
We borrowed this one through our local library and the READS system with Overdrive to my Kindle Fire.
This is such an awesome way to borrow library books.
I hope that they will continue to broaden their availability with other books soon.
If these as eBooks did not cost the same as the physical copies I'd buy them by the dozens as they became available.
I love Richard Scarry from my own childhood and I'm delighted to share these with my daughters, especially my beginning preschooler.
I really hope she'll continue to love Richard Scarry as much as she does now.
It's sad that parents don't use books like this to teach their children anymore. I mean, with the never-ending evolution of gadgets, they can just download educational applications on their smartphones. But you know what, I think it's still better to introduce books to your kids at an early age. We shouldn't stop teaching them how to love books because it's one of the beautiful things in the world.Anyway, as for this book, I'll give it a 4 for the illustrations and 5 for the content! :)
This is the best LITTLE word book ever. If you're looking for the Best Word Book Ever, it's no longer in print. They made it politically correct and removed alot of the charm and humor. No more handsome pilot. Now he's just pilot.Still love Richard Scarry. Just don't love the world that's grown up around him.
This is a picture book that introduces vocabulary to young readers. It is cute but the page can be pretty busy at times and some words may be to advanced. It points out daily household items and roles, and attempts to modernize gender roles by having the dad wash dishes and referring to certain jobs as person rather than "man" in a middle class hetero family.
I grew up watching and loving the Busytown of Richard Scarry. This book would be great way to introduce many different words to children. Isn't a read aloud book but it would be good to have for kids to read on their own.
One book filled with many different words! Perfect if you are looking for a book that names everything around you. It's a great book to start that learning of reading and identifying things. Perfectly enjoyable illustrations and many different identified objects. Making learning easy and fun:)
Perhaps I will change my mind when my children are older, but a book that starts with a story and ends this flatly is uninspiring for a mother to read aloud.
Cute characters, great game for finding and naming things in this picture book
Good bookwe got this book for our son and we really liked it very much.we would definitely recommend to all parents.
Best Little Word Book EverScarry, Richardgood early reader
Was one of my favourite childhood books, and it still is to this day.
As far as "word books" go, this one is of tremendously high quality.
Another win from Richard Scarry. I loved these books growing up for all the details, illustrations and subjects they squeezed in and they're just as great now! :)
I have never really been a fan of these Richard Scarry word books.
Another great vocabulary book from Scarry.
Love Richard Scarry's word books!
viv loves scarry and this is no exception. seems like a lot of repeat pages from other works. still, it's words and she loves that!
Who didn't like Richard Scarry books growing up? I think this was the only time that I realized that Worms could wear pants. Although, it was one side only. The words just come to life.
I've always wanted a Lowly Worm!!!
Most people like to read just the words but reading the pictures with the words to my kids was an adventure I will always remember!
I used to read these when I was little and am glad to se Nico loves to read this over and over. It's great for picking up vocab.
Richard Scarry plus LIttle Golden Books equals about as good as it gets. I don't know if Richard Scarry invested cross-section, cut-away illustrations, but he certainly perfected them.
