https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/14945.Moments_of_Being
But then Virginia Woolf never intended this collection of memoirs to form a book.
George Duckworth, her considerably older stepbrother, once made her stand on a chair and put his hands all over her young body.
It would appear he continued to take liberties with her body as she grew older.
The rage she felt though seems dormant, drugged, buried beneath the determination of the artist in her to always write beautiful or humorous sentences.Probably the most fascinating facet of this book is reading first-hand accounts of scenes that were deployed and transmuted in her novels, primarily To the Lighthouse.
A series of five autobiographical sketches, Moments of Being moves between past and present as Woolf reflects upon her upbringing and her writing.
Woolf privately considers her childhood and coming of age in the first and last pieces, while the three intermediate works are memoirs she delivered in public to Bloomsbury's interwar Memoir Club.
Interestingly, the split between Woolf's two kinds of autobiographical writing can be seen as paralleling that between her meditative fiction and her gregarious nonfiction: few others match her versatility as a writer.
"A Sketch of the Past" is easily the collection's strongest work, though the others are also engaging and worth reading.
Moments of Being: Autobiographical Writings, Virginia Woolf Moments of Being is a collection of posthumously-published autobiographical essays by Virginia Woolf.
The collection was first found in the papers of her husband, used by Quentin Bell in his biography of Virginia Woolf, published in 1972.
In 1976, the essays were edited for publication by Jeanne Schulkind.
The second edition was published in 1985.
The title for the collection was chosen by its original editor, Jeanne Schulkind, based on a passage from "A Sketch of the Past".
Nos três primeiros, Virginia recorda alguns momentos mais marcantes da sua infância e juventude, como a vida e morte da mãe e da irmã Stella.(Julia Margaret Cameron e Stella Duckworth, a mãe e a meia-irmã de Virginia Woolf)O quarto ensaio é sobre as primeiras reuniões de amigos - às quintas-feiras à noite, na casa dos irmãos Stephen - que deram origem ao Grupo de Bloomsbury, constituído por intelectuais, cujo objectivo era o conhecimento, livre de preconceitos em relação ao feminismo e à sexualidade.
Sadly, the epiphanies that made her fiction so illuminating were apparently tied in with her deep depression.“Again I had that hopeless sadness; that collapse I have described before; as if I were passive under some sledge-hammer blow; exposed to a whole avalanche of meaning that had heaped itself up and discharged itself upon me, unprotected, with nothing to ward it off, so that I huddled up at my end of the bath, motionless.”Virginia coped with the death of her mother at a young age, followed by her half-sister Stella, her father and her brother, all before she was 25 years old.
Woolf okumak ne kadar zorsa bir o kadar da harikadır. Sanırım Dalgalar ve Deniz Feneri için hazırım:)
Al punto che, come spesso dico in questi casi, è stato uno di quei libri che sono riuscita a leggere solo quando ero sola in casa e la casa era completamente immersa nel silenzio, momenti in cui, come a una cerimonia del tè tutta per noi, ci ritrovavamo, io e lei, sedute sul divano di velluto, davanti a due tazze di porcellana, in quella che per una o due ore diventava la nostra stanza, una stanza tutta per noi.
Seeing the ballet "Woolf Works" inspired me to read this collection of autobiographical essays by Virginia Woolf. In the live cinematic performance, Maggie Smith read several excerpts from "Sketch of the Past" - the piece of memoir that Woolf was working on at the beginning of World War II, and not long before her own death by suicide. Certain lines and ideas in the first pages of this Sketch are among the most beautiful and moving bits of writing she ever accomplished: If life has a base that i
Seeing the ballet "Woolf Works" inspired me to read this collection of autobiographical essays by Virginia Woolf.
In the live cinematic performance, Maggie Smith read several excerpts from "Sketch of the Past" - the piece of memoir that Woolf was working on at the beginning of World War II, and not long before her own death by suicide.
The most interesting idea that Woolf discusses in this essay is that of "being" and "non-being" - and that is what inspired the title of this collection.
What I like is the Virginia Woolf who is always trying to capture "real things" (a term that she uses in connection to Stella).

Re-read January 2016.April 2015:Thoughts on "Reminiscences," the opening piece, are on my blog here: http://proustitute.wordpress.com/2015...I'll likely write about the other pieces collected in this wonderful collection individually, in the depth they deserve. And I'll try to remember to update this when those are up on the blog, but the link is there now in case you want to check back.
I mean it might be a bit difficult if the readers would like to know her intimately from her literary works; however, we could read her published letters or diaries in which their entries might be primarily limited for privacy.The excerpt that follows would, I think, allow her readers to have a clearer image on “genius” in 1940:… And genius when my father was a young man was in full flower.
192)Finally, I would like to share this extract taken from her last readable piece with a challengingly title “Am I a Snob?” in which, I think, Woolf has sincerely and enticingly described a vainly, socially-renowned lady named Sibyl Colefax:…  “I have enjoyed myself in this room so much,” I said.
This little book is magnificent; a must-read for any fan of Virginia Woolf. For all intents and purposes, it's an autobiography (or parts of it, at least) but it reads like one of her novels. I am so happy that I own it - I will go back to it several times in the future, I'm sure!
Oh how I flit, like the blue butterfly of E.M. Forster, through your drawing room in Bloomsbury!As a picture of the life, both inner and outer, of one of the finest writerly minds of the turn of the Twentieth Century, there may not be an equal.
Poor Virginia; brilliant and overly anxious and depressed and plainly in love with the luminary women of her life who died too young; roundly mistreated by the men in her family who lived and most of those who died; never meant for society but always meant to describe it.
I really enjoyed this memoir. I'll admit i didn't read the editor notes or the introductions, but I feel like those were a waste of time to get to the good stuff, reading about Virginia Woolf's life in her own words. It's a very hunting look into her past and you can see where she got some ideas for her novels. I highly recommend this to people who enjoy Virginia Woolf's novels or to people who what to know more about her and her life.
Desgarrador y luminoso.
Virginia Woolf is the only writer I have ever encountered who can describe those moments - the surreal nature of existence and the blur between the conscious and unconscious - and have them make perfect sense.
These memoirs are just a non-fiction extension of the writing she pioneered throughout her life.Much of this work concerns her childhood, with particular focus on her mother and the issues that arose in her family following her mother's death.
I think Woolf felt it was her duty as a human being, not even simply as a writer.
"Öğrenecek pek çok şey,okunacak pek çok kitap vardı." (Sayfa 36)Halide Edip ile başladığım anı türüne Virginia Woolf ile devam etme kararım, aldığım en iyi kararlardan biriymiş.
Ancak Halide Edip ile başlayan ve Woolf ile devam eden maceramda öyle olmadığını anladım.
Woolf; harika bir gözlemci, iyi bir ruh üfleyiciymiş!
Birkaç bölümden oluşan bu kitabın "Geçmişe dair bir taslak" bölümü en sevdiğim bölüm oldu.
Burada kitaba ismini veren "var-olma ve var-olmama anlarına" dair müthiş çözümlemeler vardı.
Sanırım en çok "varolduğum anlar" çocukluğuma aitti.
En çok o zaman var oldum.
Büyüdükçe bu var olma anları dünyayı tanımaya başlamamla bir miktar azaldı.
It was as if it became altogether intelligible; I had a feeling of transparency in words when they cease to be words and become so intensified that one seems to experience them; to foretell them as if they developed what one is already feeling."this quote might be the best way to try and describe the emotions i felt while reading this volume (or woolf's writing in general).
her writing and the way she expresses her emotions, experiences and relationships as a child are so captivating, so raw and poetic and innocent and wonderful and real.
I really enjoyed reading these auto biographical essays from Woolf. Her fiction usually feels a bit autobiographical, so reading these essays helps to show the similarities and differences between the two. Then again, even autobiography has a bit of fiction thrown in ...I am concurrently reading Hermione Lee's biography of Woolf and have found Moments of being to be an excellent companion read. Lee quotes heavily from all of Woolf's oeuvre, including these essays, and so it was tempting to get the stories directly from Woolf.If you are a Woolf fan, you'll find much to enjoy in these essays.
Virginia Woolf is truly one of my favorite writers of all time, and this collection of posthumously published autobiographical writings makes me love her even more. In fact, I love her so much that I can't even talk about why I love this collection so much without sounding goofy. So I will just say that this is a perfect companion to To the Lighthouse with much discussion of Woolf's childhood and her mother and father. Love. It.
Some of the best life writing I've come across. The nature of Woolf's mind definitely comes through, and it is interesting to watch her style and psyche develop through all the pieces. It suffers a little from not being finished by Woolf herself (or Leonard), but you can definitely get the idea of where she was going, especially in Sketch of the Past and Moments of Being. Woolf's sentences, as usual, are terrific and her images incredibly resonant.
So, I liked the history of it, the insight into life of a (barely) upper middle class family with its generations covering the Victorian and Edwardian eras.I've enjoyed what I've read of Woolf and had little personal opinion of her going into these memoirs.
Having read her autobiographical memoirs, which she herself did not prepare for publication, what do I now think of her?I find her a little sad in fact.
I think some of what Woolf wanted to say in her writing eluded her, she was forever chasing the right words, the technique, that would convey what she experienced in her moments of being.
(Bei mir ist es so, dass jedes erneute Aufflammen der Begeisterung fast zwangsläufig zu neuen Buchkäufen führt, und es bedrückt mich nicht wenig, zugeben zu müssen, dass manches neu erworbene Buch sich dann doch eine ganze Zeit gedulden muss, bis es auch gelesen wird.„Moments of Being“ ist eine Sammlung fünf autobiographischer Texte, die Virginia Woolf verfasst und zu Lebzeiten nicht veröffentlicht hat:„Reminiscences“, verfasst um ca.
Darauf folgt eine Passage, die sehr verstörend ist:VW nennt Ross und Reiter und schilder, wie Gerald Duckworth sie als Kind auf einen Servierwagen gesetzt und ihren ganzen Körper abgetastet hat.
Reading Virginia Woolf has always felt like hearing a familiar voice.
I love the cadence of her essays, her particular kind of sharp observation, and her attention to the small moments in this world.
Reading Moments of Being, her posthumously published collection of autobiographical essays, is such a pleasure.
In “Am I a Snob,” Woolf makes an unusual argument for what qualifies as a snob (the prime example involves a member of the English nobility feeding a dog a bloody bone at the lunch table), and then turns the term around in her mind and uses it to think about moments in her life.
This is a series of memoirs Woolf wrote either for her particular Bloomsbury friends or as part of a project that she didn't live to revise.
Death of loved ones, emotional betrayals, sexual assault and sexual lawlessness: this is a tough read.
It is, however, a valuable one: if you're interested in Woof (you should be) it will help you appreciate her more, and regardless, it will give you a new picture of the late Victorian educated classes and what happens when everyone realizes, all at once, that their ideals have been stupid.
I wonder why I hadn't read this wonderful book yet, being such a fan of Virginia Woolf and Bloomsbury.
What a joy, after so many biographies of Bloomsberries, diaries of Frances Partridge and such, to read the real thing, the exquisite prose of Virginia Woolf herself, so much better than all the rest!
are the other two pieces, perfect examples of her wit and inimitable style.
What a pity depression got her at 60, when she was still so aware and productive, how many wonderful texts she could have written.
Para ser el primer libro que leo de Virginia Woolf es posible que haya hecho lo correcto, pero se trata de una obra póstuma y una serie de notas dispersas que realizó la escritora a lo largo de su vida, aunque el orden cronológico de las mismas fue realizado por el editor de este libro.
No soy fan de las biografías, menos de los libros autobiográficos, carácter que se le ha impreso a estos relatos, que además de entretenidos brindan información necesaria para todo aquel interesado en la bibliografía de esta escritora tan conocida.
I found it a lot more helpful and interesting than Writer's diary, which is most likely very censorised.
Virdžīnijas Vulfas stils ir apbrīnojams, jo tas caurauž viņas prozu, viņas publicistiku un arī viņas nepabeigtos autobiogrāfiskos manuskriptus.
I read "A Sketch of the Past" and "Old Bloomsbury" out of Moments of Being, the only source of her autobiographical writing (aside from the Diaries and Letters) as far as I know.
I admit I definitely read The Voyage Out with an eye towards Woolf's own life, and whenever a character had a dead mother or took sex advice from a man, I immediately assumed Woolf was writing herself into her books.
But this summer, I played a piece of music composed by a peer, not knowing where the idea for it had come from, and not really caring.
