https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7227174-fly-away-home
This book was very disappointing.
I have enjoyed Jennifer Weiner's books in the past and this one I could barely get through - I did listen to this on CD.
The characters are so unlikeable and so one dimensional.
Judith Light reads the book on the CD version and while some of the characters voices are great, some are nails on a chalk board brutal.
Every day I considered returning this to the libraray (do not spend any money on this!) and didn't because I didn't have a backup to listen to during my commute.
2 stars seems kind of harsh, but 3 stars, to me, is a book that I finish and think, "wow, that was a good book".Fly Away Home is one of those books.
I read it quickly & it was enjoyable, but I didn't close have that satisfied feeling I get when I finish a good book.
The girls are also a mess, Diana in a loveless marriage (well, at least on her end)& having an affair and Lizzie still not pulling herself together.The story is divided into 3 parts and each part has several chapters told from Sylvie, Diane and Lizzie's point of view.
She moves to her mother’s vacation home, hoping to figure out who she is now that she’s not being the Senator’s wife.
Weiner tries really hard to make her husband, Gary, as distasteful as possible, but the more distasteful she made him, the worse Diana looks.
I also didn’t like the hot and cold relationship she had with her young son, who seemed so much better off with his recovering addict aunt.
I think we’re supposed to accept it because Diana is lashing out at someone else to assuage her own guilt, but it didn’t work.I also found the ending to be a bit disappointing.
I like Jennifer Weiner and have read all of her other books.
the younger, slutty, messed-up sister, and the soon-to-be divorced mother vs.
the largely absent father is a characterization found too often in Weiner's other books.
I would have liked to have seen some other personality traits in her characters beyond these.
I feel she bases her book characters on herself and her own younger sister, and on the family dynamics within her own family when she was growing up.
I basically skimmed this book in 45 minutes and didn't feel I missed out on anything.
My main feeling when I finished this book was...bleh!
The ladies are all selfish and you want to shake each one but I didn't grow up with money, fame, or responsibility like this family did so I don't know how I would handle it.
Sure, she was the biggest fuckup but she has such a kind heart and troubled mind you have to feel for her...
even if you think she's a spoiled brat, which she is.
But, she wants to do well and change her life so badly so you forgive her for being spoiled and root for her.
Diana was the biggest bitch but you understand the decisions she made.
not going to lie... disappointing, lame and a huge let down after her first books. this is just my opinion though! i feel like she just took an us weekly story of a cheating politician or actor and tried to make it a good fiction book. it was honestly nothing better than boring. sorry jennifer weiner, i used to wait for your books with baited breath -- after the last 2 not sure ill even care.
She tells you all this at the end of the book......well before any of the political scandals, i.e.., Elliot Spitzer, Anthony Weiner, Gov. McCreavy, and their sexual improprieties ever came to light.
Don't get me wrong, I totally enjoyed reading the book, it was the perfect beach read, a good, enjoyable story, without having to really think.....but with that in mind, it was a little too fluffy to attack what would really happen to a political family in the wake of a sex scandal.
There is a somewhat relentless focus on women's issues, questions of how women identify and define their sense of self and their importance in the world, and the novel explores that for the mother and two daughters it follows in alternating chapters.In that sense, for me, it was often a little on the nose-- there was a sense here that an effort was made to present three characters who would stand in for all the other middle class white women, and that sometimes that's what we were seeing instead of actual characters.
In at least some sense, Sylvie's extramarital experience should have some impact on Diane's adultery, but the novel never goes there, and actually denies any connection, which seems a little weird.
Jennifer Weiner's Fly Away Home is my selection for the September Chick Lit Plus Reading Challenge.I listened to, rather than read, this book.
Fly Away Home tells the story of Sylvie Woodruff and her daughters, Diana and Lizzie.
Married for more than thirty years, Sylvie learns that her husband, Senator Richard Woodruff has had an affair.
Sylvie, Diana, and Lizzie are all complex characters.
Diana and Lizzie weren't cliched characters, either.
Often times, we don't recognize the significance of events while we are in them.If you're a "smart" chick lit fan, then check out this one!
Well, my grandmother sent me this book for beach reading.
While it was a lot better than most "beach reads"/chick lit, which I detest, it still just wasn't that great.The book follows the story of three women.
The mother is the most likable character by far.
whatever you say.Diana was not a likable character to me.
Her story is interesting- the recovering addict daughter of two affluent parents- and her character seems the most honest and pure.
I wouldn't really recommend this book unless you really desire some light reading about women/family.
After reading the Book Blurb, I thought I was going to get a literary version of The Good Wife.
That is until cable news networks announce the Breaking News - the Senator had an affair with a woman young enough to his daughter and she looks eerily like a younger Sylvie.
As the book blurb says her two daughters join her there, each with their own secret.
But this reunion doesn't happen until the last 1/3 of the book.
Why do I as a reader want to care about Sylvie, Lizzie, and Diana Woodruff?
I did like Lizzie though.And what's with the ending?
After the disaster that was Weiner's last book (Best Friends Forever), I started this book with trepidation.
Weiner hit her stride in the first few chapters and she never lost it.The book is told alternately from the perspective of the wife and two adult daughters of a New York senator who has been caught having an affair.
Weiner reveals each women's strengths and vulnerabilities in turn, but never making them weak or simpering (which was her flaw in "Best Friends Forever").
This book made me, once again, a believer in Weiner's talent.
A disappointing story about the "perfect" Senator's wife who has neglected her two adult daughters (the "good" daughter is an ER doctor and the "bad" daughter is a drug addict fresh from rehab) to devote her life to her husband and his career.
I will admit that I've always been fascinated by the sight of political wives standing by their husband's side during the news conference while the "bad boy" tries to explain himself and his behavior (kudos to you, Jenny Sanford) and wonder how these women, who appear to be either shell-shocked or drugged, or perhaps both, react once the cameras aren't rolling.
This book is the story of what happens after the news conference.
I found the main character (wronged wife Sylvie) to be pretty boring, and Weiner didn't really cover any territory of political wifedom that hasn't been written about many times in the news, on the tv show, "The Good Wife," or in Curtis Sittenfeld's "American Wife." It didn't feel very original, at all, which surprised and disappointed me, because usually, Weiner's characters are very lively.I found her two daughters and their dynamic (responsible, uptight Diana and irresponsible, free child Lizzie) much more interesting.
I wish that the pages dedicated to Sylvie, her waffling about her husband, and her newfound independence were dedicated to Diana and Lizzie, instead.
So Jennifer Weiner is one of those authors that even when its "meh", its still good.
She's just a talented storyteller who knows the formula of good women's fiction backward and forward and can deliver on a good tale.
It's formulaic.
I've read other Weiner's works and I can spot the character prototypes and kinda predict what's going to happen.
There's going to be a type-A overachiever who will gradually end up humbled and relaxed by the end of the book.
you just know they're going to be there.
I'd still recommend her to anyone who likes good women's fic.
Lizzie finds purpose in life by taking care of Diana’s son Milo and then her father Richard, who is lost without Sylvie.
I just wish the book could have continued on, I wanted to continue the journey with these characters!While the story was serious, Weiner’s trademark humor was every apparent and you can see below in my favorite quotes:When Sylvie’s mother Selma is talking about her sex life with her father, Sylvie thinks, “Somewhere in the world, there was surely a conversation taking place that she’d less enjoy hearing.
If this had been my first time reading a novel by Jennifer Weiner, I would've been satisfied.
But after reading Weiner greats such as "Good in Bed," "Certain Girls," "In Her Shoes," and "Little Earthquakes," - "Fly Away Home" didn't do much for me.
The premise is certainly timely in that a senator's wife, Sylvie Woodruff, discovers (along with the rest of the country) that her husband Richard had an affair with a much-younger lobbyist.
The three women end up coming together at their Connecticut home to figure things out, but there is too much back story before this happens.
It’s about the difficulties both private and public of being a member of a Senator’s family as news of his affair with a much younger woman hits the news.
The book is told from the perspective of the different family members, Sylvie, the Senator’s wife and each of his two daughters.
One thing I enjoyed about this story is that each of these women, although different, is very strong.
In short, fans of Jennifer Weiner and those looking for a light airport or beach read will enjoy this book.
Why I really liked this book: each woman, the heroine, and her two daughters, had issues with "life" and control ...
messy, messy life and the choices we make.
Life is tricky and has a way of spinning out of control no matter what.
and took stock, and made stock and roasts and stews and took walks and took back her life and her memories and her choices.
The addicted daughter came closest to being a cliche because you see her only in recovery and neither the before or after really conveyed her interior struggles.
I think this is definitely my favorite book that I've read so far by Jennifer Weiner.
I kept thinking of Sylvie, the mom, and relating her to my mom.
And how my mom is always there backing up my dad and how if my dad was unfaithful I could see the next series of events unfolding the same way they did in the book.
Some are so recent that I think its incredible that they're in the book.
And I think that some women might not like the ending with Sylvie, but I did.
Listened to as an audiobook, narrated by Judith Light.This was a heartbreaking story of how wrong things can go within a family - First, Sylvie finds out that her senator husband had an affair with a young aide - she discovers this at a rest stop while en route to yet another political event in support of her husband.
Finally, Sylvie's youngest daughter Lizzie, newly released from a drug and alcohol rehab facility, is trying to stay sober in the face of some very stressful events.
I am not sure that I really want to waste much time doing a synopsis of this thing.
It is one of those "taken from the headlines" stories in which a woman, who has devoted her entire life, to a politician finds that he has been having an affair with one of his aides.
With asides to such shell shocked wives as Dana McGreevey and others, Weiner goes on and on and on about the affair and its aftermath.
It gets quite tiresome really, in that not much happens in this book.
All in all a complete waste of time.
I'm not finished but I can say I'm not happy with this novel.
And Weiner keeps referencing other political wives who've been cheated on as if it's a research document.
This is missing the usual Weiner flair, and she just fails to get close enough to any of the characters.I think she should stay away from writing based on the headlines (wives who stand at the side of cheating politicians) and go back to creating people she knows.Note: I have finished the book, and it did improve towards the end.
I stick to my original rating and my opinion that this is the least of Weiner's novels.
This is a good book, told from three different viewpoints.
He is caught having an affair with an aide and the book is about how she copes with that.
It also tells the stories of her two daughters.
Diana, the elder, is a doctor who is cheating on her husband of seven years.
She has a three-year-old boy.
She doesn't love her husband and never has.
Lizzie, the younger, is a recovering drug and alcohol addict.
All of these stories are interesting.
Deals with issues of infidelity (from BOTH sides: cheater and cheated-on), addiction, love, parental expectations, pregnancy and trust.
I've liked this author in the past, and I am feeling really let down by this book. One of the things that hacks me off the most is the reviews on the back cover. All are glowing... but when you read closely, you find they are reviews of the author in general, and not of this book. These characters are not believable, especially the poor ER doc's husband, who is presented as a sniveling caricature of a man, no humanity whatsoever. The ending is just sickeningly neat. Really wishing for my money back on this one.
Yuck. I will not be finishing this book. Reading the first chapter, I thought, great, another book about rich New Yorkers. Sigh. And, of course, the woman who sacrificed for her politician husband is the last to know about his affair. Okay, let's see if the second chapter, narrated by her ER dr daughter, is better. Uh, no. The daughter is having an affair with an intern IN AN EXAM ROOM. I'm done. Weiner is better than this. What a disappointment.
3.5 Stars
I listened to this book in the car going to and from work. The story is fluff but a pleasant escape from an intense day at work and bad traffic. Judith Light was the reader, and I loved her character voices and performance. She made the story more interesting than it would have been had I read the book.
I borrowed this book from my oldest brothers wife. It isn't too bad of a book. It is my first book by this author. It is made for the 18 and over crowd. It had a good story. I liked the variety of characters in it. I hope to read more books by this author. It is a older book by this author.
Great read. Light yet detailed enough to keep you interested. Marriage infidelity by a male senator and his wife takes the time to reassess herself. Her daughters also get tangled up in emotional upheaval. Well done and leaves you wondering what happens next which is nice.
