https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/862011.The_Phantom_of_Pine_Hill
The boys do have finals in this book, but take time out to go places with the girls.
But Emerson College where the boys attend and which is within driving distance of River Heights is in the Ohio Valley, which is the southern part of Ohio, touching PA, WV, IN and IL.
I did some digging and originally River Heights was in Iowa, then moved east probably to the Chicago area, then futher east to somewhere on the coast - NJ is a guess, but in the later books like this one (#41) it's back in the midwest - Ohio/IN/IL.
Some old guy suffers repeated burglaries from his house, blamed on a supernatural phantom. This is another book where obvious bad guy is obvious from the beginning. BESS of all people saves the day by distracting the bad guy long enough for the cops to show up.Nancy gets knocked out by yanking a secret panel out of a wall onto herself. Nancy and George are both knocked out when the bad guy uses a "knockout spray gun" on them when they catch him in the act. No idea what the knockout spray is supposed to be.
Another great mystery in this series of books starring Nancy Drew.
Can't say I'm connecting with Nancy Drew stories like I did when I was in elementary school.
Sometimes you just have a day where the only thing that will get rid of your bad mood is a hot bath, a scented candle and a Nancy Drew novel.
The title was familiar, but I have a feeling that's because it's one of the books Claudia Kishi references in the Baby-Sitters Club series.
Sadly, it didn't quite live up to Claudia's recommendation, or my childhood memories of Nancy Drew.
A fun, quick, nostalgic read for tonight's bath, but not the best-written mystery I've come across in this series.
2017 POPSUGAR READING CHALLENGE : A book I loved as a childAlice était mon héroïne préférée - hors Hermione bien sûr - quand j'étais jeune, et je dévorais ses aventures en attendant le prochain Harry Potter. J'avais décidé l'année passée de relire une aventure de la jeune détective. Même si tout est un peu "gros" si l'on regarde avec des yeux d'adulte, et extrêmement cliché, ça a un certain charme... Je lui met donc sincèrement 3 étoiles, et j'en rajoute une pour la nostalgie que cette collection provoque en moi.
I absolutely loved this book. I read this book in a cottage by the lake. It was perfect for Spring.
As much as I love Nancy Drew mysteries, the sheer amount of coincidences that allow her to solve her mysteries is just baffling.
Sometimes you just gotta read a little Nancy Drew for fun. I loved these books when I was younger, and I still love them now.
I didn't care for the newer books so I quit trying to read them.I didn't remember the story of The Phantom of Pine Hill, so it was like reading the book for the first time.
What's not to like?!I think my one criticism with any Nancy Drew book is how quickly the story progresses.
As is, I love the books regardless and will always have a soft spot for Nancy Drew (I even play the computer games) but I would be interested in reading them all in novel form should they ever become available.The Phantom of Pine Hill is definitely one of the stronger books in the Nancy Drew line-up, and one that anyone can pick up and enjoy at any time.
If the story consists of lots of adventure ,gangsters and goons it becomes more of a thriller rather than a mystery.A cozy mystery should have one crime (or two related crimes) followed by a clue here and there ,some logical reasoning and then the Result!!The phantom of pine hill starts with the mysterious appearances of a phantom 👻 in a victorian villa which is followed by a series of thefts.Nancy drew and friends not only solves the mystery of the spook but also unearthes a lost treasure (some part of it is always unbelievable,but I like it nevertheless)I really enjoyed it ,as a matter of fact devoured it .This book is definitely going to be one of my Nancy drew's favourites .
I read this, 'cause my student lent it to me.
And gosh, I haven't read a Nancy Drew mystery for years.
It was something, reading the old use of English and imaging the outfits described back then.
And just liking cool female antagonists, how people would date and how people communicated without cell phones.
(^o^)I'm glad that my student has taken an interest in this series.
Practical sense, that bad things happen in the world.And we can do something about it.
For what seemed like a simple read, it still drew me in, in a, "I want to know what happens next." style and hook.
A pretty typical Nancy Drew. The two different strand of mysteries: the phantom bothering Pine Hill and the missing wedding presents from the 1800s tie in easily. Sometimes different events that tie in together are a stretch and that annoys me.The events of the University's June Week and Bess being the hero of the day capturing the villains add fun twists that are not normally in these books.
Nancy Drew books influenced my book reading life. I read the First Editions of my mother's and the their richness of language whetted my appetite for reading. I learned so many words. It is a shame that today's children and young adult books are "dumbed" down. I so enjoy re-reading these books. I still have all of my books that I collected from 3rd grade throughout high school. The backs are checked off as they were collected. In fact, $1.95 label is still on this book. Pure nostalgia!
Hooray for Bess being the one to foil the bad guy! 💪
I do not remember reading this one when I was little. Cute story, a little hard to believe some parts.
historical treasure found by nancy and the gang.
It was a little confusing at times but other than that...I LOVED it!
classic Nancy Drew
Not a great mystery, and quite a lot of racist stuff.
Well i cannot be as brave as Nancy,Bess,and George. They are three though girls. This book has enough adventures to last them a vacation. But they will soon find themselves in another hair-raising mystery.
The Phantom of Pine Hill  is a children's story by Carolyn Keene (pseudonym) and the 42nd book in the  Nancy Drew  series. When Nancy Drew, together with her two close friends, arrive for the Emerson University June Week celebration and learn there has been a mix-up in their motel reservations, the confusion leads to a baffling mystery. Uncle John Rorick, a descendant of the early settlers of the town of Emerson, invites the three girls to be his guests at his historic mansion on Pine Hill. Sho
When Nancy Drew, together with her two close friends, arrive for the Emerson University June Week celebration and learn there has been a mix-up in their motel reservations, the confusion leads to a baffling mystery.
Uncle John Rorick, a descendant of the early settlers of the town of Emerson, invites the three girls to be his guests at his historic mansion on Pine Hill.
Even though I haven’t re-read any of these books since I was a child, I still think that Nancy is a great character—her courage, confidence and fierce independence, makes her an iconic source of inspiration for young girls everywhere.
A must-read children's book, 
is another wonderful Nancy Drew mystery.
It feels like cheating on my challenge a little, but this Nancy Drew is my 'bathroom read', my random time-passer so to speak.But to the actual book.This one is really interesting, Nancy has to outwit a phantom, that sneaks through the walls of Mr. Rorick's library and steals his money, and valuables.
Not to mention hang out with Ned for THE ENTIRE BOOK.
But this is definitely one of the better NDs.We also found some snazzy secret tunnels!
:)Ok just tryin' to keep the reading challenge going.
But NDs are easier to absorb, than....
:)Ok thanks for reading!~Simone
My love of reading started when i was young, and it gives me immense pleasure to provide books to Spread the Word Nevada, an organization that passes them on to children in the community.
Sometimes I'll find a book I remember reading when I was young and will read it again before passing it on.I don't rate these books using my normal scale, instead I give most of them three stars.
This isn't a Criticism of the book, simply my way of rating them as good for children.
They are also interested in stories of a treasure from a ship that sunk on the river.The story has a very obvious villain named Fred, who spies on Ned and Nancy.
More things seem to be stolen from a house even though the items are kept in a room that is supposedly burglar-proof.A good bit of investigating reveals the people involved in the thefts, how they somehow got into a room that no one was supposed to be able to get into, and they dig up more on he sunken boat.A pretty standard adventure for Nancy.
Sometimes things can seem a bit repetitious and the narration can feel dry, but it does have a good mystery plot and the main suspect has more development than the series' suspects often do.
It also has some good twists and turns, though some are a bit predictable.
But what really pushed this book towards four-star territory for me was the way Bess came through and saved the day towards the end.
I think that as an actively participating character, Bess is often skimmed over, so I'm very glad that she played a more important role in this book.
When Bess, George, and Nancy find themselves staying at an old house, a phantom is heard to be there!
The sleuths are into the mystery, and it is a hard mystery to figure out, and Nancy admits one of the hardest she has had.
It is confusing, all the suspects, and narrowing this mystery done to one.
But they decide it`s Fred Jenkins, because the girls catch him in the act!
And Bess, George, Nancy, and Ned Nickerson are solving the mystery of the sunken ship, the Lucy Belle.
Even thought that mystery`s not solved, they come close, by finding a hat from the captain.
In this book Nancy Drew and her friends go to a town with a huge university where she she comes across the mystery of The Phantom of Pine Hill. Someone, or something, is coming into the library when the doors and windows are locked stealing money and throwing books and everything everywhere. Maybe someday she will get to just go on vacation without any mysteries to solve, probably in her late 70's.I like Nancy Drew because she's smart and mostly fearless. I like mysteries and this is a good one. I would recommend this book to anyone who likes mysteries.
I remember the first time I read Nancy Drew. It blew my mind that there were girls presented with a brain. Most of the stuff I'd read up to that time, was that girls were sugar and spice - fluffy. No brains. To also learn about George who is a tomboy was a nice validation. Carolyn Keene wrote just for me! That is how I felt. When I did more research, I was shocked to find out, Ms. Keene was actually a man ... writing under Frank Dixon. I also loved the Hardy Boys. No wonder I loved these series.
When Nancy, Bess and George go to Emerson to celebrate June week with Ned, Burt and Bess' friend, their reservations are lost and they end up staying at Pine Hill, the home of John Rorick. There are some mysterious goings on related to a buried treasure. Nancy has to help discover who is sneaking into the library and stealing John Rorick's hidden money as well as creating the impression of a phantom.
