https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/208057.The_Creative_Mind
Toute vérité est une route tracée à travers la réalité.Each truth is a path traced through reality.HB Reading Bergson's old french prose is not always a journey without sweat.
But, for the courageous reader, some gems lies scattered in this brilliant collection of essays: Bergson manages to turn upside down the unchallenged dogmas of western thoughts.
Possibility is less than reality?
Wrong.Eternity is more real than time?
Wrong.Movement is made up of static states?
Wrong.The list continues....So, if what you are after is genuine mind-expansion, you have no choices: read the old master, and enter the world of Living Time
Bergson gives us a creative universe that is not predetermined as a result of merely mechanistic functions.
A new burst of creativity comes along when a person, in his own time and place, does something completely new and different, like Shakespeare creating Hamlet.
Truth and reality is in a constant state of becoming that is far more subject to creative forces than it is to mechanistic ones.
He seems to be saying each moment of time stands on its own, not having duration, and therefore never connecting with the next moment or event in an influential way.

Metaphysics is intuition
In fact, it is nothing more than a compilation of various introductory essays written by Bergson.
But, by providing a thorough overhead view of his thought and his concept of duration, it has made me feel as though I no longer have to bother with reading anything else by him.
I would advise not reading this book through.
Pick it up, read one of the two essays mentioned above, and move on.
Îmi plac filosofii care sunt clari şi expliciţi.
Aşadar îl aşez pe Bergson alături de Schopenhauer sau Kierkegaard, Camus ori Sartre - foarte departe de obscuri ca Hegel sau Fichte.Bergson este ideologul din spatele 'monstruozităţii' de ”În căutarea timpului pierdut” a lui Proust; am înţeles chiar că Bergson s-a căsătorit cu o verişoară a lui Proust.Cele două introduceri la cartea de faţă rezumează ele singure aproape întreaga filosofie a lui Bergson.
Lucruri care-mi plac foarte mult.
M-am plictisit de vechea filosofie cu ”marele şi micul”, ”unul şi multiplul”, ”formă şi substanţă”, ”fenomen şi lucru în sine” etc.
In this book, Bergson outlines the aesthetic intuition that characterizes his philosophy.
Here Bergson grounds change as central to metaphysics, rather than some kind of ontological substance.
It's not what he hasn't already said in other books, but this is his directed attempt to define exactly the role between intuition, change and concepts.
Worth a look at, since this a directed refocusing of philosophy, memory and change.
What I do not get are some of the examples in the back of philosophers that Bergson admires.
At the time of his writing perhaps this was relevant, but these examples are dated, and somewhat uninteresting to me.
Ver Henry Bergson, “The Posible and the Real”, en The Creative Mind, trad. Mabelle Andison (New York: Philosophical Library, 1946), pp. 91-106. Ciertamente reconocemos la necesidad de insistir sobre los poderes creativos de la virtualidad, pero este discurso Bergsoniano nos resulta insuficiente en tanto también necesitamos insistir sobre la realidad del ser creado, su peso ontológico y las instituciones que estructuran al mundo, creando necesidad de la contingencia. Imperio Pág.266
there is some beautiful, evocative, thoughtful writing in here, hence 4. but this is more a collection of essays or lectures rather than an argued work, though it is not hard to find bergsonian themes. this is probably not the best work to start. it helped to read guerlac before. interesting on pragmatism, i have never heard of ravaisson, but the continuing emphasis on intuition certainly bergson.
I still shudder when I see this book on my bookshelf. Great ideas, if you are willing to sacrifice a lot of time rereading pages because you have no idea what you just read. A most unenjoyable read.
great intro to a brilliant philosopher.
