https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/17888952-the-first-phone-call-from-heaven
"No soul remembered is ever truly gone."P.S. Mom, I'm still waiting for the phone to ring!
I think religion is indeed 'the opiate of the masses', it exists so people don't have to face up to the consequences of their own actions.
(view spoiler)[This is not to say I disrespect religious people.
What I want to know is if you don't hear the call, do you get a text saying you have a missing call from God?(view spoiler)[I do rather fancy being a Mormon though, especially if I could be a man.
(hide spoiler)]In five thousand years, if we are still here on Earth, people will look back to these religions we presently have as we do to the ones of Egypt and Greece.
Interesting premise but was let down by the lack of emotional connection I typically feel when reading a Mitch Albom book. Was more of a mystery book then an emotional/inspirational book.
One: I couldn't care less about what went through their heads, and two: reading their parts wasted my time in quickly getting to Sully's part.I quite enjoyed reading about Sully, and Mitch's style of unraveling Sully's mysterious past was pretty much the only motivation I had for finishing the book.I was disappointed to find out that (view spoiler)[the phone calls from heaven were fake.
But then I thought: because it's a Mitch Albom book, fictional miracles like this are the reason I read his books.
Not that the author provides any great solutions as you are left at the end with as many facts as you have at the beginning.The most interesting part to me was what happened to the world at large as people began to receive phone calls from loved ones who had passed on.
Who wouldn't like to hear from a loved partner or child who has died, especially when the message is that there is a life after death.
There were some great characters like Sully and there were some life changing moments as a direct result of all the fuss.
I loved the backstory of Alexander Graham Bell as it coincided with the current day story, it has given me the desire to read more about Bell's personal life. My favorite quotes "What is false about hope?" and Faith is believing without the need for proof. I would read this story again.
Κανεις δεν ξεχνάει τα άτομα που λάτρεψε.
Κανεις δεν αρνείται να ακούσει τον ήχο της φωνής που αγάπησε πολύ.
Κανεις δεν θέλει να δει την αλήθεια που πονάει αβάσταχτα όταν μπορεί να νιώσει απόλυτη ευτυχία έστω με ένα ψέμμα.
Όλοι ελπίζουν στο παράδοξο το αδύνατο το απραγματοποίητο της ζωής φτάνει να βρουν ένα ελάχιστο ίσως και ψεύτικο σημάδι που προμηνύει ένα σημείο επαφής με πρόσωπα χαμένα και λατρεμένα.
τηλεφώνημα συνεπάγεται όλου του κόσμου την ευτυχία και τη χαρά.
Κανεις δεν πεθαίνει όταν τον αγαπούν και τον θυμούνται!!
“Desire sets our compass, but real life steers our course.” This was my second novel of Mitch Albom. The first one was The Time Keeper and I love that book, carrying a lot of life lessons. This one, too. Mitch Albom is really one of the master-of-life-lessons writers.The book speaks the story of a small town on Lake Michigan that gets worldwide attention when the media broadcast to the world that its citizens start receiving phone calls from their loved ones in the afterlife. Is it really the g
Mitch Albom is really one of the master-of-life-lessons writers.The book speaks the story of a small town on Lake Michigan that gets worldwide attention when the media broadcast to the world that its citizens start receiving phone calls from their loved ones in the afterlife.
Point of views from people who received the phone calls that are willing to tell everyone; people who liked to keep it for themselves; and other who wanted to find if it is just a hoax.
Unfortunately, nothing I loved about TFPYMIH carried over into this book.
Although Albom left a twist at the end to insinuate that legitimate phone calls from heaven did occur, some split-second reasoning (ie.
The first 100 pages of the story seemed rather repetitive, since Albom basically took the reader through the same event (someone receives call from a loved one, debated whether or not to tell someone) with about six different characters.
I guess I was misled by only having read TFPYMIH, which was much lighter on the religious content.
I have read all of Mitch's books: Tuesdays with Morrie, The Five People You Meet in Heaven, Have a Little Faith, For One More Day, and The Time Keeper.
I've liked all of them, except The Time Keeper, a lot.
The Time Keeper was just okay.
There is quite a bit of history surrounding Alexander Graham Bell and Elisha Gray (who?).
I love history.2.
There is a scene a little over half way through in which one of the people receiving calls from heaven reacts in a very surprising way.
تماس های تلفنی ای که در اون اظهار دارن بهشت وجود داره و اون افراد در بهشت ساکن هستن..میچ آلبوم جز نویسنده های محبوبمه و این کتاب هم مثل همیشه واسم جذاب بود.
میچ آلبوم همیشه ایده های جدید و خلاقانه داره و در عین حال قلمش هم فوق العادست.
با تموم شدن این کتاب میتونم ادعا کنم که همه ی آثارش رو خوندم.
کتاب هاش رو با این ترتیب توصیه میکنم:تارهای جادویی فرانکی پرستو، پنج نفر در بهشت منتظر شما هستند، وقت نویس، اولین تماس تلفنی از بهشت، برای یک روز بیشتر، سه شنبه ها با موری، کمی ایمان داشته باش.
Another solid selection from Mitch Albom. Random people in Coldwater, Michigan, begin receiving calls on their cell phones from loved ones who have passed on and are in heaven. Sounds incredible, but they can't help but believe it's a true miracle -- the callers' voices are the voices of the deceased, and their comments are too personal for anyone to be faking it. Coldwater will never be the same again, and the people who flock there are given a lesson in what heaven might really be like. Very interesting story, if you're in the mood to ponder such things.
داستان از جایی شروع میشه که 6 نفر در شهر کوچکی در حومه ی کانادا تماس هایی رو از عزیزان از دست رفته شون دریافت می کنند .آن طرف خط کسانی هستند که میگویند از بهشت تماس گرفتهاند.
وقتی اخبار این تماسهای عجیب پخش میشود، غریبهها دسته دسته به شهر سرازیر میشوند تا آنها هم بخشی از این معجزه باشندسوال اینه که چند نفر از ما واقعا دوست داریم چنین تماسی باهامون گرفته بشه ؟!
اینکه بتونیم دوباره صدای عزیزان از دست رفته مون رو بشنویم ، اما بدونیم که دیگه هرگز قرار نیست لمسشون کنیم، دیگه قرار نیست هیچ وقت از نزد
داستان از جایی شروع میشه که 6 نفر در شهر کوچکی در حومه ی کانادا تماس هایی رو از عزیزان از دست رفته شون دریافت می کنند .آن‌ طرف خط کسانی هستند که می‌گویند از بهشت تماس گرفته‌اند.
اینکه بتونیم دوباره صدای عزیزان از دست رفته مون رو بشنویم ، اما بدونیم که دیگه هرگز قرار نیست لمسشون کنیم، دیگه قرار نیست هیچ وقت از نزدیک ببینیمشون، اینکه با هر بار تماسشون یادت بیاد که دیگه کنارت نیستن که مرده ها مردن و هیچ وقت بر نمیگردن.هضم این موضوع برای خیلی ها نمی تونه آسون باشه ، اصلا نباید آسون باشه وگرنه که مرگ هم قسمت پوچی از زندگی ما آدم ها می شداگر فکر کنیم که یه داستان رو چطور میشه تموم کرد، احتمالا 100 تا راه به ذهنمون میرسه .تصورم اینه که احتمالا میشد داستان رو به روش دیگه ای هم خاتمه داد ، اما جدا از تمام این مسائل ، روش حل مسئله ی داستان رو دوست داشتم
Interesting as a general idea but a bit poor in its developement. It didn't keep my interest alive till the end.
Reading this book, the characters are also split into two camps.
There are those who believe they are receiving phone calls from loved ones who are dead and others who dismiss the whole thing as a hoax.
The story contains interesting characters from different backgrounds who receive these phone calls and so the reader gets several viewpoints throughout the story.
I liked several of them but Sully was probably my favourite out of them all.
Αρκετά γλυκό βιβλίο που διαβάζεται ευχάριστα ξεκούραστα και γρήγορα. Βέβαια το περίμενα ένα "τσακ" καλύτερο. Ξεκινάει με την ιστορία να πλασάρεται ως φιλοσοφικού περιεχομένου, αλλά την βρήκα αρκετά αφελή, ώστε να μην το πεις βιβλίο φιλοσοφικού περιεχομένου. Σε αυτό το κομμάτι θα το έλεγα απλά… γλυκούλι! Στη συνέχεια μας το γυρίζει σε μυστηρίου… μπαααααααααα ούτε για πλάκα, ως προς αυτό το κομμάτι, θα το έλεγα απλώς… ενδιαφέρον.Πρωτότυπη ιστορία, ενδιαφέρουσα που θα μπορούσε βεβαία να ειπωθεί και καλύτερα. Με κούρασαν λίγο όλα αυτά για την χάρη του Κυρίου, τον παράδεισο, την αγάπη κ.λ.π. Παρόλα αυτά μου άρεσε. 3,5 αστεράκια από εμένα.

Sometimes, love brings you together even as life keeps you apart.Before you read the book, don't forget to ask yourself this: How much do you believe in the story?The First Phone Call from Heaven is one of my favorite books written by my favorite author, Mitch Albom.
I think the reason those deceased people "called" the living was to ensure them that they led a good life in heaven and it was another kind of forgiveness to them.
Indeed, if everyone believes in the heaven call story, it means we still have a thread of hope and that's what keeps us moving on, moving forward.
The concept of the book was original; grieving people receiving phone calls from their departed loved ones in Heaven.
Even when Doreen chose to stop receiving the calls from her dead son.
Also, how good the ones felt that had unresolved feelings about the dead people; maybe they hadn't said all they needed to, etc.
and to get the chance to make sure the dead person had forgiven them or still loved them, meant a lot to the people remaining.
Everyone wanting to get to the place where it was happening, have the same phone that the calls were coming in on.
Ένα αρκετά συγκινητικό μυθιστόρημα που σε έβαζε να αναρωτηθείς αν είναι καλύτερο με τον θάνατο να τελειώνουν όλα ή αν μπορούσες να ξαναεπικοινωνήσεις με τους δικούς σου, θα το έκανες; Πολλές φορές μπήκα σε αυτό το τρυπάκι αφού έχω χάσει κι εγώ αγαπημένο μου πρόσωπο και σκέφτηκα πως θα ένιωθα αν είχα τη δυνατότητα να του ξαναμιλήσω.
Είδα πολλές εκδοχές μέσα σε αυτό το βιβλίο.
Είδα ότι άλλοι παράτησαν τις ζωές τους και ζούσαν μόνο για αυτό το τηλεφώνημα, άλλοι ξήλωσαν τα τηλέφωνα για να προχωρήσουν και άλλοι ήθελαν να στρέψουν πάνω τους την προσοχή του κόσμου.
Αρκετά έξυπνο βιβλίο που προσωπικά θα το θυμάμαι για αυτά τα συναισθήματα που μου έβγαλε.
توقعم از میچ آلبوم، کتابی قوی تر از این بود.
Three stars in general, but two stars in comparison to “The Five People you Meet in Heaven” and “Tuesdays with Morrie”..

On the day the world received its first phone call from heaven, Tess Rafferty was unwrapping a box of tea._________________I was very lucky to get this book to review it before it is released.I'm a fan of Mitch Albom's books anyways, & this one did not disappoint.People are getting phone calls from heaven - some from family members that have passed away.
Is this the proof everyone needs to see that Heaven is real?We follow the people who are receiving the phone calls & also a man, Sully, as he comes back to the town of Coldwater Michigan to try & get his life back in order.I don't want to give anything away...
When I first heard the concept of this book all I could think about was the song by Justin Moore "If Heaven wasn't so far away", which is about what we would do if we could go visit our loved ones in Heaven.
For someone who isn't "into" these types of books at all, it actually has me wanting to pick up some of his other books just to see if they equally as good.I think this would be an excellent book for anyone who has lost someone, as it gives this wonderful sense of hope and peace.
Reading this turned out to be an utter chore.
I’ve loved almost all of Mitch Albom’s books, most especially “Tuesdays with Morrie”.
I’ve loved some of them so much, that we even own a few of the DVDs. Naturally, I was looking forward to reading this one, but it turned out to be quite disappointing to say the least.
I should have given up on this one, but because it was Mitch Albom and because I was curious to see what would happen, I stuck with it, unfortunately wasting precious hours of my reading time.
چه چیزی در زندگی هست که عشق در آن نتواند رسوخ کند؟ و هیچ کس، اگر به یادش باشیم، از پیش ما نمی رود...اعتراف می کنم که اگه هر پایان دیگه ای جز این داشت، واقعا ناامید میشدم. ولی حالا حس می کنم تمام صفحه هایی که ورق زدم معنی دارن...و از زیبایی های دیگه این کتاب:شاید خیال کنید باید آدمی که گواهِ حقیقی بودنِ بهشت را همراهش دارد در آغوش بگیرند و خوشامد بگویند. اما حتی در حضور معجزه هم قلب انسان می گوید چرا من نه؟عجیبه نه؟
نگاه متفاوتی که نویسنده به ماجراهای بعد از مرگ و ادامه زندگی به گونه ایی خاص داره، برام جالب توجه بود. این کتاب میچ آلبوم هم با این که قراره از بهشت چیزی بگه در واقع به بازتاب زندگی ایی که آدما درهمین دنیای خودشون دارند تاکید کرده. از نوشته های این نویسنده خوشم میاد چون معمولا بافت روان و یکدستی دارند و ماجراهای به ظاهر خاص، بدون پیچیدگی و اضافه گویی پیش میرند.
I was a lucky goodreads first reads winner of "The First Phone Call From Heaven" I have always liked Mitch Albom's books.
Soon news hits the small town that some of the towns people are receiving phone calls from relatives.
They are saying that they are calling for Heaven.
soon this small town gets national news and attention.
People from all over want to visit this town and hear more about the phone calls that happen every Friday.
I did like this book very much.
Those of you who are a Mitch Albom fan will probably like this book too.
Pavadinimas ir aprašymas skamba intriguojančiai. Be to, anksčiau skaityta autoriaus knyga Penki žmonės, laukiantys tavęs rojuje, paliko stiprų įspūdį. Jau pakankamai priežasčių skaityti. Pasakojimas greitai užkabino ir įtraukė. Nors pasakojama iš kelių veikėjų perspektyvų, tai nebuvo painu. Buvo smalsu gilintis į skirtingus požiūrio taškus ir patirtis. Intrigavo kai kurių veikėjų gyvenimo istorijose slypintys dalykai, kurie vis nutylimi, o ir pati istorijos ašis - skambučiai iš mirusiųjų - pakankamai intriguoja. Mėgavausi skaitydama. Nors kūrinys ir nesukrėtė, tačiau paliko įspūdį, jame radau minčių ir temų pamąstymui.
