https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/17461.Misty_of_Chincoteague
I think the time has come to pass her down to the next generation, chipped ear and broken hoof and all.My son was gripped by the story, and at one point during the reading, he said, "I hope that the Phantom and Misty are still alive, so I can go to Chincoteague Island and round them up!", and I had to gently explain to him that the book was published in 1947 and ponies generally don't live much more than twenty years.
But I told him he was right in thinking that the Phantom and Misty were real.
I loved this story.
It should have been Phantom of Assateague Island.
The story is more about the Phantom and the legend built up around here than Misty.
Misty is like a secondary character in this story.
This tells the history of how the wild horses ended up on Assateague Island to begin with.
Paul and Maureen are children living on a horse farm.
Paul gets to go to the horse round up on Assateague.
Anyway.I loved reading about horses and their stories and the story of Chincoteague.
I think I might read more of this series.
And thus yes, I absolutely and utterly adore Marguerite Henry's Misty of Chincoteague and do recommend the novel most highly and eagerly as a glowing example of what I personally consider a perfectly lovely and in all ways wonderful horse-story for children (and for adults who still enjoy reading books for children)!
We went there for the round up one year & I got to put a real place to the book.
The 'Paul' in the book was in his early 30's then, as I recall & I supposedly got to meet him.
Don't recall that at all & I would have thought it would have really bugged me years ago, too.
I guess it's sort of like people calling horses ponies, a general term.
If you have a young child, this is a great book to raise them on, so long as you don't mind buying them a pony of their own.
I had a pony as a kid & lived on the Eastern Shore of Maryland, not too far from Chincoteague.
We went there & I got to put a real place to the book.
The 'Paul' in the book was in his early 30's then, as I recall & I supposedly got to meet him.
I was pretty young, about 7 or 8 I guess.
I was told he was Paul, anyway.
I don't think we got to see Misty, but one of her foals - Stormy?
Anyway, it was a memorable book, all my kids read them & my wife too.
One of my favorite books as a kid, I still love Misty of Chincoteague. Of course, it only makes me want a horse more ... but it's a pleasant sort of pain. ;)REREAD JUST NOW:I might review this later on, but basically, it was as cute as I remembered.
Audiobook #231
6/10 A favorite story from my childhood - reread for a summer book club.
Well written - good tension and suspense.
As an adult reading the book, I found myself thinking more about the rightness or wrongness of the actions and feeling more for the wild horses than for the desires of the children.
I felt the rounding up of wild horses and selling off their colts was unjust and inhumane.
Fortunately, as the story progressed, the author did a good job of explaining the need for the actions.
I love the dialect and descriptions that bring the setting alive.
Legends, now--they go deep down and bring up the heart of a story."I don't love the sexism, especially Paul's.
All in all, this reads younger and simpler than other Henry books, and therefore is, to me, not quite as juicy and re-readable.
Because of his partnership with Henry, Wesley Dennis was one of the first illustrators I knew by name and reputation, when I was a child.Oh, btw, I was neither a big fan of horses or historical fiction.
So why did I like Henry's stories so much?
Extremely dated but charming. Often unintentionally hilarious. Our two favorite lines were:"Grandma's mixed some goose grease with onion syrup fer ye"and"Maureen came running with the razor".And to think we credit advances in antisepsis for the drop in childhood mortality rate!
Definite classic and a well-written, descriptive book with vivid imagery and vibrant characters.
This 1948 Newberry Honor book is a simple, yet memorable, tale of childhood (that I missed out on during mine thanks to Lovecraft and Tolkien) that has great heart and memorable characters--most of which were real.
A terrific sense of time and place allows it to transcend its 1940's stylings and makes it one of the 20th century's great moral fables for younger readers.This was a book that I checked out from my school's library 43 years ago, but never read (I did return it, though).
I've read this, and most of Marguerite Henry's books when I was younger and now it is nice to relive them through my daughter's eyes.When reading this...I remember thinking the same thing as a child.
Why was this book called Misty of Chincoteague when it's primarily about her mother, the Phantom.It's an exciting book.
Younger readers might have trouble understanding the dialect of the books.
Grandpa and Grandpa in particular have have heavy accents which are represented in the book.
My daughter, being only 7, couldnt read this.
So, she read the other parts and I read the dialect.We have the movie and are going to watch this afternoon.
Luke's book review: This is one of the best books I've ever read. I whipped through it in 6 days - it was that good. This is a book about a horse called Phantom and her colt Misty. My favorite part of the story was when the Phantom (Misty's mother) raced against the Black Comet and Firefly and won!
As a horse lover, I loved this entire series! So well written and very interesting! Based on real events.
I read this a loooooooooong time ago, back in first or second grade. I don't remember much of it, other than there being a horse and maybe a shipwreck? So I think I need to read it again. :P
It was wonderful! I read it sometime during my teen years. I love books about animals actually. It's a beautiful story.
Just finished reading this old favorite with my 8 year old son.
The grandma is always home in the kitchen, even on the day of the big race, and the little sister (who is a spunky, independent girl, really not a bad role model) is hanging out the laundry while her brother whittles clothes pins.But we won't go all politically correct on Misty...it's 60 years old for Pete's sake.
Just read it and enjoy it...the title character is without a doubt the cutest fuzzy little filly you've ever heard of.
Adorable!Then, after reading it, go teach your daughters to whittle.
So, since I've been staying on Assateague Island, with the wild horses coming through our campsite at least once or twice a day, I thought it only right to download this book onto my Kindle and get in the spirit of the island.
I read a lot of books about kids and horses when I was little, but I can't remember if this was one of them.
Henry sets a good atmosphere, and very well describes the island.
Pretty much every motivation, observation and intuition the little girl has is followed up with someone remarking, "That's because you're a girl!".
Based on the "Misty" books, this is a short story of the wild ponies being rounded up, and being forced to cross. The Phantom and her colt, Misty, are among the horses. Misty gets trapped in a whirlpool, and the bystanders don't think the little colt will make it. Young Paul jumps in and saves the colt. Nice illustrations.
This really should have won the Newbery award, rather than just the honor. Although more time is spent on the Phantom of Assateague than Misty of Chincoteague, it doesn't detract from the book in any way. Marguerite Henry has a way of painting a picture for her readers and seamlessly weaving in pieces of history; she always makes for a great read, and this one is no exception.
Vicariously fulfilling every young girl's dream: a pony of her own.
One of these summers my husband and I hope to travel to the islands of Chincoteague and Assateague in New England, and when we do I’ll have Henry to thank.Imagine growing up on an island where wild ponies roam.
In fact, Henry pulls me so deeply inside the heads of the wild horses, I struggle at first to accept that any of them might like to live with men.
Misty of Chincoteague is the first of three books about this beloved and renowned horse.
After reading them, you might also enjoy countless of Henry’s other horse books.
A feel good readThis is a cute story about the ponies on Assateague Island. It shows how a brother and sister work together in order to get the great Phantom horse. It leaves you feeling happy and content.
This book was selected as one of the books for our youngest daughter's fourth grade 'book café' and I was chosen to lead the discussion for it.
We all listened to this story narrated by John McDonough on audio CDs (ISBN13: 9780788737336) as I followed along with this book.
The narrative is dramatic and heartfelt and I am a bit surprised that I never read it before.
The narrative is engaging, and Mr. McDonough did a great job with the different voices, pacing, and tone of the story.
The story is old, but has a longevity that many older tales do not.
We enjoyed listening to the narration of this book together.
Gosh, I read Misty of Chincoteague back when I was in elementary school, so about 30 years ago! I still remember this book in a hazy way. I remember reading it, and although I have never been a girl who loved horses, this book pulled me in, and held me in its thrall. The way Marguerite Henry described these wild horses was beautiful, and had a way of sitting me right down in their world. I don't know how this book would hold up for me now, but I sure do remember liking it when I was young.
Probably my all time favorite book read as a child. This beautiful story fueled my love for horses. As an adult, I visited Assateague Island. There really are wild horses there.
Well, when your Mother-In-Law gives you a book...
There are some books I wish every kid would read. This is one of them.
This is the book that made me think, "I'm going to be a writer someday."
