https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/93008.The_Adventures_of_Robin_Hood
What surprised me was how faith so many versions of the tales have been to this book.
Now considering that so many of the tales of Robin hood are folk tales and the like, handed down, copied and reproduced you would have thought that there would be countless different renditions - but there are not.
This book does have a number of surprises to it and even though the general books is very upbeat is can be very sombre and even a little shocking in places.
So I was very pleased I chose this book and even more so that even though I thought I knew it all - It still had the power to take me by surprise.
Αυτή ακριβώς την έκδοση την είχα διαβάσει στο δημοτικό γύρω στις 50 φορές... Ακόμα θυμάμαι την δομή του βιβλίου και την αυθαίρετη μετάφραση ονομάτων, τύπου Little John = Τζωνάκης και Will Scarlet = Γουίλ ο Κόκκινος!!!!
This is an amazing story, but it is so sad at the end. STOP AT CHAPTER 21!!!
One chapter of witchcraft.
12+For the first few chapters, I loved it.
The one thing I was not expecting was for the book to go on after Richard returned.
Uh-oh, what's going to happen.Sure enough, the king died, so John became king.
Then Robin dies and Marrian becomes a Nun. I have yet to see a movie with that ending!Just for fun, I have to include that through the whole book randomly I kept picturing Robin as a fox or Prince John as a lion like in the 1973 Disney animated film.3 stars.
I highly recommend this book as well as Green's "King Arthur and the Knights of the Round Table".
I've always wanted to read Robin Hood.
This book is absolutely suitable for a younger reader (there is death in it, but not gruesome) if anything negative its too short, each chapter can nearly stand on it's own and I kind of wish there were just...
More Robin Hood saving the poor, more Little John beating people up.
I enjoyed that Roger Lancelyn Green left a poem or short paragraph before each chapter to prove the historicity in his story, but I just want MORE!
More of the man in Lincoln green saving the world from crooked law enforcement, religious leaders and Princes who are anything but just.
It’s a bit frustrating that this edition has so many thoughtful extras at the back yet they couldn’t take the time to root out simple type errors.Regarding the author’s writing style though, there is one major change I would make.
Either way, it’s something to keep in mind if you decide to read this particular version of the Robin Hood story.THE VERDICT: Buy ItThis book has definitely peaked my interest in the myth behind the man.
It might surprise you how much you like it.It’s difficult for me to fully recommend this particular edition due to the spelling errors and the repetitive nature of its middle chapters.
First of all, the Folio Society edition of this book is absolutely gorgeous to see and touch.
Secondly, I'm surprised I never read this when I was younger?
Somehow, this book escaped my attention.
Who knows why.Essentially, this book is quite similar to Howard Pyle's, with two main differences.
The language is more accessible, and Marian is present and has a role (rather than being mentioned in passing only once).
There were a few chapters with stories I'd never heard before.
Namely, Robin being hired as a fisherman (post-outlawry and pardon) and overtaking a French pirate ship.
I had definitely never read anything about that before.
What I knew about Robin Hood before going into this is that he is and outlaw who steals from the rich and gives to the poor with his band of merry men and Maid Marian.
Most of the stories have something like this:Robin Hood (all arrogant): I'm going to do this dangerous thing because I'm Robin Hood and I can do whatever I like.Some merry man (concerned): But Robin, your nemesis the King/Sheriff/Guy will be there and they are sure to catch you if you do that!
I have to say that Robin Hood was not the hero I thought he was going to be.
The author, Roger Green, had a distinct purpose for writing The Adventures of Robin Hood.
Green’s purpose was to unite the stories of Robin Hood into an attractive narrative format without completely removing the ballads (pieces of which remain at the start of every chapter).
Even the blackest night must turn into day, so the theme is about how good always wins and how if you stand for something you are less likely to fall into the ways of the wicked.
The Adventures of Robin Hood was written as a narrative, a story that is told in chronological order with a plot and conflicts.
Green's Robin started out as the Earl of Huntingdon who was selling his lands to help the poor until unjustly made an outlaw by the Sheriff of Nottingham and Prince John.
He works to obtain the ransom money that will bring King Richard back to England.One of the biggest distinctions between Green and Pyle's retelling is Green's inclusion of Maid Marian as a major character.
Perhaps, an easier read too, with less of Pyles Old-English style.Another enjoyable look at the Robin Hood legend.
A collection of Robin Hood stories, each chapter based on one of the old poems, songs, or folktales.
The beginning includes all your classic Robin Hood origin stories: fighting Little John with sticks, riding on Friar Tuck's back, getting involved in fifty mistaken identity shenanigans every single week, etc.
I love that in this version, Maid Marian lives in the forest with them the whole time.
Also, Robin is a complete moron and I love him.
I'm just sad he didn't include the part where they're passing threatening notes during the siege of Torquilstone.
Sad ending warning.
Sad but really really really really really really really really really really goooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooood!!!
4.0 Stars.I have always been fascinated with Robin Hood and wanted to read some of the stories written about him for quite some time now, though finding a book and author who portrayed the whole saga as reliably as possible overwhelmed me.
It made me realise I’d like to read a more in-depth story, almost something like a novel about the legends of Robin Hood and Maid Marian and the Outlaws of Sherwood Forest.
While there is not one original Robin Hood story, Roger Green looked at all the literature that Robin Hood appears in and combined them into a book, with each chapter a different adventure.
This book, however tells of 24 stories detailing how he became the outlaw Robin Hood, how his companions joined him, how he and Maid Marian met and what became of them, and all the heroic deeds Robin Hood and his companions did.
The stories are short (about 15 pages/chapter) and contain lots of humor and varying adventures in them.
In a time of oppression, where the rich grows richer and the poor grows poorer, one man will challenge the corrupted prince and rebel in the name of God and justice.The tale of Robin Hood is well known and there have been many variations.
I love this story for how accurately it follows the old tales of Robin Hood, the way he steals from the rich and give to the poor.
corruption and so on.I also like how Robin Hood is portrayed, even though he is a man rebelling against the prince (the authority) he manages to outwit the enemy on several occasions.
Robin Hood war schon als Kind eine meiner liebsten Figuren in der Literatur und auch heute noch finde ich die Vorstellung von einem Rebellen, der die Reichen beraubt, ohne sich selbst bereichern zu wollen, faszinierend.
Nur weil ihm langweilig ist, begibt er sich und andere durch risikoreiche, überstürzte Aktionen in Gefahr, Frauen würde er zwar nie etwas antun, aber mit Hexen sieht das ganz anders aus, ein Wildhüter hat seinen Freund erschossen, alle anderen, die nicht schnell genug den Wald verlassen, werden von Robin auf der Flucht einfach mal erschossen.
Robin wears a custom, tricks the bad guys, then jumps out and says "HAHA!i am robin hood!" Its cute for a kids but i suppose, but not for someone looking for a stimulating read.
i really only finished so i could finally put it on its place of honor on my Robin Hood shelf in my room.
(Yes, i have a whole shelf solely for Robin Hood novels.
This was the first of the classical retellings i've found that Shows Guy as a noblemen out to get Robin instead of just a bounty hunter.
The result is a collection of short stories which very occasionally seem a little contradictory but which overall do give the sense of a coherent narrative - from the origins of the hero to his death.
In this, the book was a clear influence on the classic ITV series Robin of Sherwood.Roger Lancelyn Green's mentor in the inklings was C.S. Lewis and so it should probably be no surprise that his narrative eschews the overtly pagan elements of that later adaptation, even if his tales do abound with references to 'the greenwood' which echo the green man.
The following is a list consisting of plot points and the probability that they appear in a chapter (each chapter is essentially a short story).60% - An archery contest that Robin Hood wins.60% - A friendly fight with quarterstaves that Robin Hood wins.
One or both participants will finish with a "cracked head".50% - Robin Hood disguises himself somehow, and then at the end throws off his disguise and proclaims "I am ROBIN HOOOOOOOOD".5% - There will be a mysterious knight/man but it's so obvious that it's Richard The Lionheart that you want to puke in the recycling bin WHILE THE GARBAGE GUYS ARE TAKING IT AWAY.0.4% - A verderer (someone whose job is to make sure that nobody hunts in the royal grounds) kills one of Robin Hood's friends.
Roger Lancelyn Green makes an interesting attempt at turning the disparate Robin Hood legends and traditions into one long narrative, threading in stories and sources as diverse as Anthony Munday and Sir Walter Scott, the medieval ballads and pageant plays, and the various other sources.
A good introductory book for people just coming to the legends, a nice addition to a fan's collection as Green really does work in almost every other tradition and source that was extant at the time he wrote the book.
Anyways, this is something I really should have read when I first got it because I really like Robin Hood.
Robin Hood is still my all time favorite literary hero.
King Richard and Prince John were actually kings of England.
But yes I really like Robin Hood and seen a ton of movies and tv shows about him, but never actually read anything except for some okish books.
I realize this was written in the 1950s and there is older stuff out there (like Ivanhoe which is on my list), but this is a good narrative style for our favorite archer.
"The Adventures of Robin Hood" is Green's attempt to gather and organize all the legends and myths of Robin Hood in one complete storyline.
Of course the chapters are very episodic and fragmental as a consequence of the original material, but Green manages fairly good.
There's a great sense of continuity present in this book.The story itself is very repetitive, but the characters are fairly agreeable and well represented.
Especially Lady Marian who turned out to be a lot more than the average "damsel in distress" stereotype.
I am sure that this book will be a true treasure to any adventurous child.
You see, I'm obsessed with BBC's TV series Robin Hood, so I expected that I wouldn't like the "real" (or as close to it as one can get) version.
I could actually merge the two versions in my mind quite well.It was quite well written, taken, as much as possible, from old ballads and plays about Robin Hood, I really liked it.
Robin Hood is one of my heroes (if that doesn't sound too strange) and I loved this in-depth look at the classic tale of Robert Fitzooth, Earl of Huntingdon.Written as a collection of stories, Roger Lancelyn Green truly captures the essence of Robin Hood in this bookI'm 15, and I HIGHLY recommend this book.
Okay, yes this was for kiddies, but it was highly entertaining and an easy read for the poor busy senior who had to finish a book in 24 hours.
Each chapter was like a mini story, the first few set up how robin was born and how he got his outlaw band set up.
The next few chapters were individual adventures such as when Robin goes to an archery contest to win a silver arrow.
This was a well written book, engaging and amusing.
I would recommend this to someone, just so they could get a kick out of it like I did.
An extremely enjoyable classic that had me laughing out loud, so much so that turning pages was a pleasure. This somehow managed to hold my attention just long enough to pull me into its realm of enchantment. It's been forever since a book did that to me. In fact, I'm kind of starting to miss it now. :|Really, Robin? Oh, thank you! Thank you!I'll just wait for it like this, then:
This was a very fun, entertaining book, at the beginning, Robin's pride almost drove me mad with annoyance. Seriously. But as the book went on, I started to attach myself to him. Not Little John. I hate Little John. I only wish Robin Hood didn't die like that! It would have been cooler if he had been hung or something... No? Okay then. Why didn't he kill the lady at the convent? Or let Little John do it for him? Was that some kind of stupid honor code? 'Cause if someone had detached my band aid...
For the first time I prefer the movie then the book. I felt like this could have easily been cut down as every chapter tells the same story about Robin Hood's adventures which pretty much ended the same way. In a way this was like a short story collection about Robin Hood and his merry men then a complete story with a beginning and end.
classic Robinall the charactersloved n knownnice to readeach chapter it's own little storybuilt together to work
Great book to read to sons and daughters! Very exciting and adventurous. Each chapter stands on its own, so it's a super book for night time reads!
