https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/16509.The_First_Book_of_Swords
I find that while this first volume is tremendously engrossing I am at a loss to quote the specifics of that pull.The book revolve around the making and subsequent acquiring of twelve swords of power.
These weapons a "god made" enchanted or more specifically imbued with helpful but mostly terrifying traits that make each peerless in its specification.Our tale begins with the crafting then thirteen years later the eventual scramble for twelve.
Eventually this makes his family the first to feel the disastrous and terrifying after effects of these imbued blades.
It was a simple read ,but it was fun.We're dealing with gods and swords of ungodly power.The first 1/4 of the book is like an introduction.I thought the characters were done really well.And the world-building was enough without boring detail and repetition.Apparently a young boy begins a quest with a sword who unknowingly is being played by higher forces, and we will follow him through the series.I liked this book and would recommend it to others who read fantasy.
This one of the first novels that introduced me to the fantasy genre, and therefore I will always have a soft spot for this story. I tried re-reading the story recently for the first time in many years, and I didn't get very far before I had to put the book down. Thanks to Saberhagen for helping to introduce me to such an amazing genre, but this is no longer a book that I enjoy.
The gods create twelve magic swords, each with a power and a curse, and turn them loose on humanity as a sort of game they can sit back and observe. The Book of Swords was Saberhagen's best fantasy series, but it is sort of like Farmer's Riverworld in that the idea is almost too big to carry off. Saberhagen could have written Swords novels for the rest of his life dealing with the various weapons and their interactions. Saberhagen is always an exciting and entertaining read.
This book series has a great concept: there are a handful of magical swords that were forged and scattered across the land, each with unique powers to grant the individual wielding it.
The story of these swords and the hands they fall into is the premise of this book.
There is too much focus on the mythology and backstory and other magics and ideas in this book and not enough on the swords.
The author lost sight of the whole point of the story - the swords.
It's a real shame that the author just didn't imagine big enough for this story.
I'm aware that this is a large series, but for some reason I was under the impression that each novel could be a standalone. So it was with mild disappointment that I read the last page without getting to thepunchline, the novel ending as a chapter does.I know there is a game afoot, created by the gods who distribute twelve magical swords to humankind, but I'm a little miffed at still being left in the dark. Time will tell if I do bother to continue with the story,which has been pretty good so far.
Sorry to say I have no interest in Mark, Ben or Barbara. I was mildly interested in Nestor but there was too much jumping around to keep me interested. It started out really good with that prologue but...Well I read the list of swords taken from Saberhagen's list and I'm just going to leave it at that.
This first book of a trilogy sets up a world of gods and common men. Here the gods have created twelve magical swords as part of a game that they are playing. Each sword has different powers, good and bad. This is a straight forward book with simple characters, but an enjoyable story and setup. You will have to read the other entries to appreciate the story.
A classic that holds up well against the test of time. Full review to come soon.
I have read the series years ago, and really enjoyed it. This is more of a 3.75 so got a round up to 4.Recently this series came up in discussion, so I had to dust off and start my re-read!
I had bought the original Book of Swords books from a library book sale way back in the day and read them and enjoyed them in that they were fun and feature magic swords and a strange setting and Roman gods and a number of other things, and then I had found those first three books collected in a single hard cover not too long ago (again at a library book sale).
This series actually proves to have more depth than I recall it having.The series itself helped to kindle my life-long love of stories about collections of objects.
One thing I always didn't like about the Lord of the Rings was that we were told about this collection of magic rings, but we only 'really' get to see one.
Saberhagen's book deals with some fantasy world set in a future world long after some apocylpse.
The swords truly have that feeling of 'divine objects', each having a power, but a price as well.Anyways, the book is still good all these years later, and it's nice to delve back into some 'old' fantasy fiction.
(Yes, the main characters are largely inanimate objects.) The essay at the end (about which more in a bit) mentions that the series was written as the basis for "microcomputer" game.
The language is a bit dry, but it's more a style than a flaw.Nonetheless, there is the story, or the first part of one, as young Mark sets off with his father's Sword with the authorities hot on his heels.
I still recall the details from time to time and that's what prompted me to look for more of his work, and boy, there sure is a lot of it!The Book of Swords saga is set thousands of years in the future where magic runs wild and the gods are once again a force to be reckoned with.
The gods are getting bored with humanity's peace—because I guess there's only so many fun things you can do when you're immortal—so they decide to stir the pot and spice things up a bit by forging 12 magical swords with extraordinary powers, and scattering them all over the world.
Swords with special powers and kingdoms at war are not the most unique things in the world, but interesting characters, gods, and a fast paced plot push this book into greatness.
I thought different people from around the world would come together in a big way, but that didn't happen.
I really want to read about the people who own these swords and what they can do, instead I have to settle for a 200 page book revolving around a few characters making a trip.
A few hundred more pages added to the end would have been nice instead of an unrelated second book.
It is a good serial story told in installments rather than really a collection of individual books that are related.
The story revolves around a collection of swords that each have great powers and great limitations, and in some cases great liabilities.
It becomes apparent in the telling of the overall story that that purpose has gone awry because the power of the swords is so destabilizing and overwhelming (some of them can kill god's, one of them even makes it simple and easy).
Fans of the Percy Jackson series might also enjoy the mortals interacting with Greek gods shared story context.
Fred Saberhagen's Book of Swords series is really captivating.
Each sword has a specific power that will only activate in a certain way.
We are introduced to the first few swords in the first book: Coinspinner (the sword of luck), Townsaver (a sword which will only activate in a town or village where people are in danger), Dragonslicer (the name is pretty self explanatory) and Sighblinder (which projects the illusion of a feared or loved person to those that the wielder encounters in that they will obey all commands given them).
First read the entire series back in the late 80's and have recently re-read it.
Saberhagen creates a fascinating world where the relationship between gods and humans is complex and fascinating--and that relationship drives the story.
The gods create a set of 12 swords with magical powers as part of a game to play with humans as the pieces, and quickly the powerful begin maneuvering and warring over the swords.
However, the swords are more powerful than the gods realize, and soon they are in danger from their own creation.The first and third book of this series are especially good--interesting, page-turning, and exciting.
I heartily recommend these books if you like fantasy or science fiction.

There isn't much to say about this book. It's your basic fantasy from a couple decades ago.The best part about it is how the narration jumps forward to only the necessary parts of the story. I didn't have to read about Nestor's trek through the swamp or the gang's wagon ride to Sir Andrew's place. They just traveled there and the story continued. Made for a quick, easy read without any headaches.There have only been a few Swords introduced so far, but they're neat. I just hope they get fleshed out more.
Saberhagen's Berzerker stories are some of my favorite memories from my early science fiction reading. Never read his fantasy stuff. This is middling fantasy. More tolerable than the pretentious sprawling eleven-volume tripe that has become the norm, and not saddled with flashes of porn. A little light on character development, but a quick, enjoyable read. Ends oddly. Stops in the middle of nowhere, rather than in a cliffhanger.
(4.5 stars)I haven't read anything by Saberhagen in ages, so picked this up when I stumbled on it.There isn't much to say about it - high fantasy, magical swords, hints that all is not as it appears. My only complaint is the fact that things are gleaned by divination rather than spies and footwork, half the time.
Another great science fantasy series. This series is a set of stories of individual stories about mythical swords, their power, and what happens to the people who come across them. It's an interesting mix of quasi-mythology with a science fantasy story line. It's a fun set of stories, light and quick reads ad if you like this kind of thing, you'll really enjoy the series.
This book started out great and I honestly tried to get through the entire thing, but after 200 pages, I gave up. The story slowed down, the main characters both started using false names, and the history of the swords was not alluded to enough. Through the pages I got through, you only find out about two of the (12?) swords that were constructed by a Hephaestus-like being.
Not unexpected that I would find this a good read considering its about swords and sorcery. But in a different vein from the usual, the swords take the center stage here making the title an apt one. Each sword has its unique quality with which it was forged and we see a couple of them in this opening book. Lets see what the rest bring.
I love the stuff I have read by Saberhagen before and I have most of this series already but it has been a long time before I started it. This being the first book, it makes me want to read more but not in as much earnest as The Books of the Gods series did. Still a good fantasy novel and blends a lot of new mythology particular to this universe to our own.
I hadn't read this book since the '80s and all I could remember about it was the beginning and that I had loved it. It didn't fail me. An entirely enjoyable read with great characters and vile villains. Thank goodness I have the next two books in this series waiting for me to read.
Suggested by my closest in age brother a long time ago. now finally getting around to reading it. I'm far enough along that I know I'm going to have to read the whole series. Library account activate!
I enjoyed the book, and hugely appreciate that even though went got war, he didn't get bogged down in detailed battle scenes, but let us focus on what some non-combatants were doing sometimes. I'm curious about what happens next, but don't feel driven to get the next book in my hands right away....
Pace picked up well enough at the end to make me want to read the second book.
