https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/40383157-the-birth-house

One thing I am not is pro-home birth.
I'm not anti- home birth, but the more I read about the "exquisite, spiritual, satisfying" birthing of their babies, the more turned off I am by the usually-not-said-but-rather-implied understanding that any other kind of birth is not.
I think women who line up on the home-birth side of the debate will love this book.
Unfortunately, it doesn't really champion the beauty of all birth, or the most important thing of all...the availability of options.
I know, I'll write a novel and set it in the quaint town I just moved to and that I love love love." Awwww, it was mean of me to pretend Ami McKay actually said that out loud ever, because as far as I know she didn't.
And I'm just being mean because if I ever do stop being a useless widget and write a novel, it will have these same flaws (this is psychology, people, I'm doing psychology here).
A local midwife, Miss Babineau, begins to teach the young girl what she knows so that Dora can continue the tradition of folk medicine and midwifery in Scots Bay, Nova Scotia.
Soon the doctor is accusing the women of botched deliveries and even dispensing dangerous herbal concoctions that allegedly resulted in the death of one local woman.I loved the character of Miss Babineau.
For decades Miss Babineau helped the women of Scots Bay with births, illness, deaths and all sorts of medical complaints.
Dora had such love and respect for Miss Babineau, as did the other residents of the area.I disliked the doctor.
She said she wanted this book to feel like Dora Rare's literary scrapbook and I think she's achieved that.
I really enjoyed how she brought in the real life events of the day - World War I, the Halifax explosion, the great molasses flood of Boston as historical touch points for the actions of the characters and the setting.
I would have liked another chapter or two of the "post Mother's Day rally" and then the wrap up/look back at life chapters.And as always, reading these books set in the past makes me so happy to live in these times.
I really enjoyed this book.
The writing was so good I found myself wanting to read slowly so I could really pay attention to her descriptions and use of language.
The book is set in the early 1900s in Canada during WWI.
The main character, Dora is an apprentice midwife during a time when an obstetrical center has just opened nearby and the big push is for the end of home births and midwives.
The women of the town fight for their right to be involved in the birthing process.
The book also has a section of old midwive's cures which were really interesting.
Dora's ostracism from the rest of the town felt like the author telling the audience that she was just too special for the others to understand, and that taken with the slut-shaming of Grace Hutner made it difficult for me to sympathize.
Dora was also a very passive character, and while in come circumstances it made sense, she seemed to drift through the novel on other characters' steam.
I also felt that McKay tried to cram too much into the final third of the book- drownings!
I've read McKay's other book, "The Virgin Cure," and found it much more satisfying; this one just suffers too much from first-author problems.
Through much speculation, Ami evokes a lavish rendition of the life of Dora Rare, the only daughter born into 5 generations of sons.
From the beginning, Dora was destined for a "special" life, as she came from the womb with a caul that was believed to give her "sight" and whomever retained it, good luck.
Dora is sent to apprentice under Marie and to ease the financial burden of her struggling parents.
When a Doctor arrives with high-falluting claims and finger-pointing disdain for the "old ways", Dora and Marie are faced with the increasing superstitious shunning of the very same women they had treated and midwifed for.
I thought this was an interesting light read and I had fun with it.Now to make myself hated just a little, I have to disagree with the reviewers who complained about the "confusing" combination of narration, letters, and diary entries. I thought that the arrangement was easy enough for a junior high graduate to follow. The letters and diary entries were dated, after all, and with the exception of the first . My apologies to those who disagree, but maybe you should try a book with smaller words in a larger font. There was nothing confusing about this novel.
A real treat to read, and an unexpected treat at that.
Found it at B & N on the Discover New Authors shelf and took a chance.
This is the story of a midwife in Nova Scotia who finds herself in the middle of being part of the old way of doing things vs.
the new way when a medical doctor establishes a women's hospital in a nearby town.
But more that that, this is also a story of the connection between women in a male-driven society.
What a great read ...
What I found interesting about this book it pits science against religion, and I ended up rooting for religion-mainly because it's presented as a refreshing mix of open-mindedness with a splash of mysticism and intuition, instead of the more over used portrayal of religion equaling ignorance.
This book is very feminist in that the main theme is that women have a right to choose-from birth control, to abortion, to how they want to have their babies.
There was one really creepy birth in a hospital in which the mother was completely knocked out with chlorophorm (did I mention this was set in 1917?), and the doctor just extracted her baby for her.
The Birth House is one of the most unique and moving pieces of Nova Scotian literature I've ever read. The story of midwives and their struggles in a rural Canadian community, it's not only historical but also brilliant and imaginative.
I enjoyed this book. Mostly about a young woman, Dora, who is the only girl in a long line of all males in her dad's family. She is deemed "special" for a few reasons upon her birth. It takes place in a small village in Nova Scotia around the time of WWI & the life of the people in the town was quite interesting. Dora is friends with the town's medicine town/midwife. Through this relationship Dora also starts to "catch babies".I found some parts of the book a little far fetched but it is fiction so I let it go.
2.5/5 The world will know and understand me someday. But if that day does not arrive, it does not greatly matter. I shall have opened the way for other women.-Amantine Aurore Dupin Some historical fiction is inspired to the level of meant to be, whether due to quality or the issues it raises or both. Others reek of the "let a history book open to a random page and point to the subject of one's future novel" syndrome, something that additional research and family history and touching upon topical
All in all, when I read historical fiction, I expect a story beyond the pale, not something that caters to the typical mainstream's whitewashed fantasies, and this, for all its cherry picked veracity, did not deliver.Beyond the reinforcement of a white history, there was also the matter that I never once felt that I was living in the world the story told.
Present times cling enough to fantasy without historical fiction exacerbating it.I'm sure I'll finish another book before the end of this year, but as I have no plans to up the ante once again for my reading goal, it's worth briefing the conclusion here.
We all know that the ob-gyn medical establishment was bad during the early 20th-century, that twilight sleep was a failure, and that the medicalization of childbirth led to the denial and often loss of local knowledges, etc.
A slower-paced book, that tried to bite off less big of a topic, and that dwelt in more detail on attitudes and experiences could have given insights into how it was that those now debunked ideas made sense to people at the time, and into how it was that only some people resisted them.
I assume that a lot of the literature that was popular at this time has since gone out of fashion, and it would be interesting to get insights into that side of her world.
Her ability to carefully craft character development and plot made for an irresistible read that had me feeling a full range of emotion and constantly turning the page for the next bit of story.
Written from the perspective of pre-suffrage women in a small east-coast community, the range of characters were fascinating to observe and even through the gossip, back-stabbing and otherwise the depth of community and support for one another never seemed to wane.
And while this was the perspective cast, I loved that McKay never pitted man against woman.
The Birth House ..by.
The author was inspired to write this story from the home she lives in.
Located in Nova Scotia; which was a birth house many years before.
In that period of time between 1910 - 1920 women preferred a mid wife to a male Dr. The midwife used many holistic remedies where as the Dr. used chloroform and forcepts in his deliveries.
Dora the midwife had to crusade for the rights of women.
At the end of the story they ran the male Dr. out of town, and Dora's home became the new birthing center with a midwife in charge.
Once again, a visit to how incredibly awful and proscribed women's lives used to be, with the obvious reminder that it's not all peachy these days, either. Sweeping, powerful themes (maternal love, isolation, community, sorority, power, spirituality....). Amazing that this is a debut novel. It's quite the opus. I didn't realize that it was about Nova Scotia, now my home.
(hide spoiler)] The truly interesting characters are the members of the Occasional Knitters Circle, who reminded me a lot of my own knitting group -- the fierce ones, the gentle ones, the practical ones, all leaning on each other for courage and advice about intimate things.All in all, I found this slightly less compelling than The Virgin Cure, but despite their shared time and focus on women's health they have very different stories, and it's only appropriate for the country book to take a country pace, and the city book to rattle around at a city's pace.
The family was known to only have sons, except for Dora who in some ways might have been more like a boy should be at that time (and the story is set with all the mores and issues of that period of time, and she came into her coming of age at the beginning of world war 1.
Even though people are writing minions on when to give up on a book, you can always put it down if you don't like it....
This is a solid 3-stars, and I would recommend this to certain people.This is not a masterpiece and it does not have an amazing storyline (See below), but it is a nice read for a rainy day, and it has enough going for it that I enjoyed it (and finished it within 24hours of starting).
I won't say that I couldn't put it down, just that I was happy to keep reading.The storyline is basic and typical of this style of book.
I am not expecting characters with depth.I enjoyed the story as a light read about a topic that interests me...
You root for more than just the main character, you can revel in folklore and the idea that once upon a time, life was actually like this, and in retrospect, no matter how hard it seemed then, it would be fairly idyllic now - Ami McKay paints a lush period piece filled with description, design and emotion while keeping all of her characters witty, intelligent and believable.I would recommend this to absolutely anybody I know.

A wonderful depiction of the gentle arts of midwifery under attack by an outrageously patronizing and paternalistic obstetrician trying to promote his "new modern methods" involving rendering women unconscious at the birth of there own babies and painting that gentle art as medieval witchery. The sad part is that many women buy this fluff. Full of amazing characters and centered around Dora Hare, the only girl born in their family in five generations, who is apprenticed to Miss B, a loving, wise and humanistic healer. Strongly recommended.
Wonderful book! Amazes me to think about what struggles women faced when it came to childbirth and maintaining control over their bodies in the early 1900’s.
It deals with the reality of women's lives in a rural area in the early part of the twentieth century.
The characters are entirely believable--both the good ones and the bad ones.
There is enough history woven into the story to give a strong sense of time and place.
I loved the section about the great molasses flood in Boston's North End (read Dark Tide The Great Molasses Flood of 1919 for more about that.) Most of all I loved the women who knitted and cooked and raised babies and supported one another through everything.
Wonderful story.
Beautifully told, and very thought-provoking.The only reason I rated this down is because at times the narrative gets confused with the diary entries that are incorporated into the story; sometimes I got confused about what was going on in the literary present and what had happened in the past, what was actually being done versus what was being thought about, that kind of thing.
And this confusion increased as the book went on because there were more entries, letters, and article clippings towards the end.
Overall, a very well-told, nicely-paced narrative.
The Birth House is historical fiction following a midwife (Miss Babineau)and her protégé (Dora Rare) as they deliver babies, offer marital advice and occasionally help women resolve unwanted pregnancies.
The characters are rich, very likeable or very easy to dislike (let's face it, you need both in a great novel).
Be warned, there is one scene late in the book that is a bit gruesome against animals - I personally thought it wasn't needed.
The only reason I gave The Birth House four stars instead of five was because I thought the ending was rushed.
I will read another McKay book.
This book is a so wonderful to read. It is so realistic and well researched that it reads like a true story of the lives of real people during the first world war. Being from the Maritimes, I loved the local references, places, and the recounting of the Halifax Disaster. The history of the Region, the expulsion of the Acadiens in 1755 etc. was also of interest as I have read several other books that talk about this, and the Cajun medicines (gris gris). I will definitely read more from this author.
I went into this book wanting to love it, but something held me back. Whether it was the exaggerated incompetence of the doctor, or how there wasn’t one husband in the Bay respecting his pregnant wife’s desire for a home birth, something about the storyline just didn’t ring true for me.
