https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/633178.Bug_Jack_Barron
Perhaps this book is no longer politically correct, but I found it to be one of the most interesting books I've ever read.
On a more serious note, the book is one of the great New Wave science fictions of the 60s.
It just missed winning the Hugo, losing to THE LEFT HAND OF DARKNESS, but hey, what can you do.
Ignoring the misses in technology, he very well describes the zany world of infotainment which surrounds us.
Even though not everyone will understand New Wave SF, I can not give a higher rating.
Everyone should read this book: whether they like it or not!
If I gave up on books, I would have after the second sentence. This book is horribly written with run on sentences and run on words. The plot is about two megalomaniacs that both think they are right and saving the world. The book is filled with drugs, sex and violence. In the end, it's chapters of babbling insanity.
At the time it caused a stir (not on the scale of Lady Chatterley’s Lover – but in the science fiction work it certainly did) gaining the comments such as from Donald A Wollheim' that it is "depraved, cynical, utterly repulsive and thoroughly degenerate", however that was 1969/70.
Now it seems hard to see why such a book would gain such a reputation.
So much so that, what was once seen as criticism is now used as a promotional tool.BUT there is another side to this book, where business, politics and personal beliefs clash often with the greatest cost to the average person in the street.

Fans of modern-day pundits, either right or left wing, might enjoy checking out this 1969 publication which turns out to have been eerily prophetic considering today's many noisy media battles between self-righteous journalists and billionaire industrial fat cats. Jack Barron is the holier-than-thou journalist, and his favorite target is a rich, ruthless and unscrupulous corporate type. While investigating the purchase of children from very poor families, Barron discovers a bizzare immortality scheme involving... well, you can guess who. Really good read for fans of science fiction.
"Bug Jack Barron" drinking gameHave a drink every time:- Jack Barron thinks of the "100 million amer
This was really hard to read with all the racial slurs floating about and the blatant sexism. Also, though the tension built up well it went downhill halfway through when you pretty much knew what would happen. The book just ended up being a leftie's wet dream of single-handedly taking down an invincible mega-corporation.
One of Norman Spinrad's best works. The key figure is Jack Barron, a TV journalist. Much is at stake, such as the possibility, according to antagonist Benedict Howards, of immortality. The book moves ahead with an intriguing finale as Barron amounts to a great deal!
The book was hailed as a classic of the genre, controversial adult oriented science fiction.Time hasn't been kind to Bug Jack Barron: it's not an easy book to read, or even like anymore, for a number of reasons:Derogatory terms for African-Americans - indeed, almost all races present in a modern western society are labeled with derogatory words at some point through the novel by one character or another.
I understand the point-of-view that Spinrad was maintaining by doing this: in his novel, whole states have become single race, and his fictional American society is one of increasing racial tension - but the heavy-handedness makes it clumsy - the words lose their impact so that they become a hindrance to the reading of the novel.
The problem for the modern reader is that the novel's intended effect is undermined by Spinrad's reactionary sexual politics and his unwise - to put it mildly - deployment of the N-word to the point of nausea.
Controversial at the time, a half-century of cultural shift has left the taboo-breaking radical looking reactionary.The plot of Bug Jack Barron could loosely be described as Sexy Nick Ferrari Saves America From Itself.
(there was a screenplay for it in the 70s but it never made it to film.) It's so politically correct, yet each character is derisive, funny, offset from the reality that surrounds them.
When the camera is going, and the POV shot is directed towards Jack Barron; reality is pushed aside; he's shunned and subsequently rebirth-ed on tape.
Why is the narrative tone yellow instead of blue now?
So he chases the dream, and ultimately the story ends in a insincere kind of irony.Yellow, blue, all these tones are what make up the story.
We want to be immortal creatures.
I gave up on page 50.
The story moves at a glacial pace (I can barely detect any forward motion in the plots and I am over 20% of the way through), the characters are unappealing, the constant slang is dated and seems more important than what is actually being said.All of that I can forgive.But it's the run-on forever sentences life sentences that never end is never in sight seeing on the shore of the lake by the pool by the ocean washing over drowning forever submerged eternally struggling...Sorry, I meant to say that the stream-of-consciousness writing style seems more important than the story itself to Mr. Spinrad.
I'm waffling between a 4 and 5 star for this book. It really is an amazing book if you get into the stream of consciousness rhythm of it. Spinrad just nails emotions and charged scenes. Really well done. I finished the book thinking, Wow. What a book!What I didn't like was that the voice/speech/thought patterns were similar for all the characters. And there was some serious repetition of certain phrases/dialogue, especially near the end. That detracts, big time.I will give it a five because even though it was published in 1969, it still delivers the goods today.
Storyline: 1/5Characters: 2/5Writing Style: 2/5Resonance: 2/5 Note: It is difficult to appreciate Spinrad's creation in the 1969 perspective in which it was published. So many of the science fiction and futuristic elements have come true, thus much of what was creative then appears as mildly insightful social commentary now.
Norman Spinrad is such a prophet that most of the forecasts in this book seem mundane today. Sadly, this takes some of the fire out of reading it. Nevertheless, it's interesting for very accurately predicting the evolution of tabloid television and for its depiction of a fictitious brain-washing cult.
This and The Iron Dream may be my favorite Norman Spinrad science fiction novels. Both are quirky, especially Iron Dream as it's ostensibly written by Adolf Hitler, and this one is actually rather humorous while being a sort of mystery suspense novel set in the not-too-distant future.
". . . once we get a Negro in the White House, even by the back door, nothing'll be the same."
Oof. This is one terrible book. May take the prize for most excruciating style. Read it because it's on a list of 100 best sf novels. Yup.
3rd reading. The hip new-wave lingo sure seemed more dated this time around ~ and I blew hot and cold on it ~ but whatever... this is a powerful novel.
Power's somehow cock-connected; woman's hung up on power, she's hung up on not having a cock, understands power only if she's thinking like someone who does."Yeah, tell that to Madeline Albright.But putting aside the female characters, and also putting aside the author's dismissal of youth radical politics as the wasting of time by "Bolshevik babies," to enjoy this book, view it as a discussion of power, those who pursue it, and what it does to them, and it can be quite enjoyable.
That’s why the SJC platform is to nationalize the Freezers so that all Americans have a chance to be revive in the future.To round out the show and cool things down a bit, Jack calls Senator Hennering, who is sponsoring a Freezer Bill that will give the Foundation a permanent monopoly on their cryogenic process.
There was, supposedly a lot of drug use by New Wave authors–this one reads less like it was made on marijuana than amphetamines.There’s also a lot of foul language, including racial and ethnic slurs (“shade” is now the slang word for pale-skinned people.) The sex scenes are pornographic in the “experimental literature” sense, but they’re important for exploring Jack’s state of mind, so you can’t just skip over them.
While this worked for the sinister aspects of the villain of the story and also for Jack Barron's and Sara's despairing moments towards the end, there were times when this narrative style didn't seem to fit with the character's mood.
Women are treated fairly casually and seem to primarily be there to sleep with Jack Barron.An interesting political angle in BJB is that the Democrats are the party of power and the Republicans are little more than a protest party on the hard right.
The Democratic party Spinrad presents isn't a liberal left party, as many people would like to think they are, but a corporate machine that has taken control.
An entry into the growing field of science fiction writing in a future that is now closer to the date of publication than the date of reading (One thing I was chuffed with, though, was the realisation that young me had when discovering that the time the book was set was roughly when I was reading it).
I first read this book thirty years ago and the slang and cultural references seemed dated then, although he had the nostalgia for the time it was written down pat.
For all its flaws - and they are very much of the time it was written - this is a terrific read that feels a lot more accurate than when I first encountered it.
Read it hearing a rumor that it uncannily predicted the rise of media "shock jocks" especially Howard Stern.
HUGE BIG WANKING SPOILER ALERT: The payoff is that American populist radio call-in host/investigative reporter Jack Barron finds a clinic that can make people immortal and forever young by gland transplants from kidnapped, irradiated black children.
In fact, you probably couldn't come out with black children fast enough for the doctors to snatch off the streets, irradiate, cut up and sell glands to the eager clients.
So I fear Mr. Spinrad was a little off in that prediction.
Norman Spinrad's Bug Jack Barron appeared in 1969, and must be considered in terms of historical perspective as well as comparative contemporary worth.
I believe it was intended to be a political statement more than a work of entertainment, valued more for shock value than story-telling.
It was nearly a case of the medium being the message, as McLuhan put it; a Future Shock for the Establishment.
It was an important work in its era, and manages to still be offensive a half-century after publication when it really tries.
Also, a pretty good story when you get into it.
Lo conseguí.
Llegué al final, pasé la última página y automáticamente lo borré de mi memoria.
Las partes de monólogo interior fragmentado, tratando de recrear los pensamientos confusos de la locura y las drogas, son tan pesadas que he recurrido a saltarme páginas enteras.
Ahora bien, teniendo en cuenta que fue escrita en 1969, casi hace medio siglo, no deja de ser interesante.
El argumento de la novela, el poder de los medios de comunicación y del poder económico detrás de los partidos políticos, se revela profético en esta época de fake news y peleas sobre la protección de datos.
While I can respect the fact that it was probably groundbreaking at the time, these days it reads like it was written by Ned Flanders' Beatnik parents.
This sucked. Hung on to page 65. Too racist. Too think-I'm-a-cool-beat-poet. Don't waste your time.
http://www.larealidadestupefaciente.c...
Cryonics was a "hot" new idea in 1969 when the novel was published - the notion that humans could be frozen at the time of death in the hope that much later (decades, centuries, even millennia) science would have found a way to defrost the corpse, correct the cause of death, and revive the deceased.The action is set somewhere in the 1980s when the technique of freezing corpses has been perfected to the point where Howards has a booming business - the "Foundation for Human Immortality" - which has millions of frozen corpsicles preserved in a number of Freezer Complexes scattered around the U.
