https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/15342543-the-adventures-of-bobby-coon
Bobby must find a new home but that is harder than he thinks.Morals/ values/ lessons intertwined in the book: helping others, not worrying needlessly, losing your temper.Old Mother West Wind: A group of stories with Mother West Wind or her Little Breezes helping the animals of the Meadow and forest.
He has some exciting adventures before discovering 'there's no place like home'.Morals/ values/ lessons intertwined in the book: greed, mischieviousness, thoughtlessness, patience.Old Man Coyote: Something is making a new sound in the Green Meadows/ Green Forest.
Bobby Coon, een wasbeertje, doet zijn winterslaap in een oude kastanjeboom, die zijn thuis is. Ineens wordt hij wakker, boer Brown en zijn zoontje zijn de boom aan het omhakken. Als de boom valt, met Bobby erin, breekt hij zijn pootje. Het zoontje van boer Brown neemt hem mee naar huis en verzorgt hem tot hij genezen is. Dan wordt hij terug losgelaten in het bos. Maar nu moet hij op zoek naar een nieuw huis, en dat gaat gepaard met allerlei avonturen.Leuk boek voor kinderen, dat hen ook nog iets bijbrengt over de Amerikaanse natuur.
I read these Adventure books with my 3 and 6 year old and they really love them. They are entertaining enough for me as an adult too. Quick and fun read.
My dad found an injured, baby raccoon with no mama in sight and brought it home.
Well, my dad knew he couldn't just release him-- he had no true survival skills and no healthy fear of humans.
My dad, like Farmer Brown's son, brought the bird home, set up a big pen in the cellar, and nursed it back to health.
My dad knew that he couldn't release the bird or it would die.
They took in the falcon, since they had a bird sanctuary.
So anyway, when it came time to release the raccoon, he knew just who to call.
Great bedtime story series.
I liked it. He had to move cause in the beginning of the book was chopped down by farmer brown's boy Half the book is leg is broken and he's in the house getting helped. Then he moves and he's a cousin to Buster Bear and Buster Bear tries to eat Bobby Raccoon and then Bobby moves next door to Buster Bear on accident.
Bobby coon was panicked and in a series of dreadful situations all the time. I liked the book.
The kids really enjoyed it. I wasn't that engaged. Good for Science for little ones. And Intro to Nature Study. Lots of really good info in story form is invaluable.
