https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/22284.Diary
And sometimes I can't help but wonder, what if THAT is what exactly Palahniuk wants the readers to feel about his works?
Feel challenged by it, dislike it, feel disgusted or insulted by it--all of these by hurling the naked truths of human nature to the face of people in the harshest possible way?My first Palahniuk book is Choke, and I was sort of culture shocked when I read it--a multitude of f-bombs being dropped from heavenly heights, sexually explicit situations, bitter but truthful ruminations about life.
Completely different from the books I've been reading--and that's saying something because I usually go for the "dark side" of literature.
“It's so hard to forget pain, but it's even harder to remember sweetness. We have no scar to show for happiness. We learn so little from peace.” ― Chuck Palahniuk, Diary
Yes, and?
The way this narrative was a dairy while also describing a diary was an amazing idea. The setting and the characters were the right type of people in the right place but something about it all made it sort of gross to read. And that was probably the point and I probably missed that but I wish it was more of an actual diary. I started reading with that idea and am a huge fan of epistolary fiction. My favorite of which is The Sorrows of Young Mike.
Very slow to begin with. A little confusing at times but the end was great.
The only reason I completely forced myself through it in less than a month is because I was so excited to read another book I'd recieved in the mail.I love Palahniuk's writing style, I won't lie.
The repitition and the way he makes you feel like he's TALKING to you instead of telling a story...
but in Diary, his writing style couldn't make up for the fact that it was just boring?I don't see how anyone could find this interesting and sometimes I worry that maybe I missed the moral/point of the story and i always want to reread it..
Like all of Palahniuk’s other work, Diary is vivid, disturbing, grotesque, and a bit supernatural.
Only, the serial killers in his novels don’t kill for pleasure; they kill for reasons much more creative than that.Palahniuk is nothing if not creative.
Moreover, the narrative habit of referring to oneself as “you” when writing in a diary comes up a number of times, because it would be equally applicable as referring to Peter or the reader as “you.” And none of this even begins to brush the surface of the story, which involves Misty’s allegedly supernatural artistic abilities, her inexplicable attraction to Peter’s shiny junk jewelry (which he pinned through his own scabby skin), and the creepy warnings she finds inside sealed-off rooms of buildings Peter remodeled before he tried to kill himself.Invisible Monsters will always be my favorite Palahniuk novel, and Fight Club will always be the most famous.
Kind of like how Chuck Palahniuk has been phoning it in for three books now, huh?
Remember when your writing used to be transgressive not because of vibrator jokes, but because of the grim tone and the overwhelming, almost-but-not-quite cartoonishness of the immorality of all the characters?
So here's what I think: Snuff, Pygmy and Tell-All are Chuck's humor trilogy.
Y'know how he likes to write in trilogies?
Diary is part of the horror trilogy with Haunted and...
Well, Chuck, your humor trilogy has failed.
Please write a second horror trilogy!
Or keep doing sci-fi, like Rant!
One of our book groupies actually read it with a dictionary to hand because she wanted to know what every word meant.
Which, given my love of dictionaries, I think is pretty cool in its own little way.What I really love about this one, to set it apart from the others, is the amazing construction of the female narrator (something I wasn't sure he could do...but he certainly can) and the art slant to everything.
It's more insular and introspective (well, as a diary should be) and the value of the written word and the work of art are important here...not so much the world.
My absolute favorite Chuck book so far.
This book made me realize why (as an artist) I go through dry spells of creativity and original thoughts/expressions.
you think more, you brood more, you long for things to work out.
When things are going well in life, it's easy to go day to day, thinking about life and the deeper meaning of things less.
things that can't be reached unless you try real hard (which works better when your mind is open to the suffering).
We all know that the meaning of life, in the overall scheme of things, is depressing as hell...
There are several things a man can do to attract a woman.
1) Kidnap.
Once you have kidnapped your selected woman she will hate and fear you: the best qualities for a woman to have in any relationship.
Works best with friends.
Wear a female friend down over a series of years by constantly telling them you like them and they won’t find anyone as devoted to them as you, and eventually they will ditch the dream of a proper man and take up with you out of desperation.
Good luck with the being you thing.Chuckily,ChuckNextPrevious
I have read over 8 books by this author and the only reason i gave him two stars was because i love fight club so much.
honestly, i thought the movie was better than the book, but ill give it to him anyway.
in an effort to be edgy and controversial, chuck loses sight of important literary necessities like continuity, concept, intelligence, character development, and so on.
his books sometimes feel like i'm in someone else's bad acid trip.
but of course, this is all probably intentional because he would rather be a cult icon than a pulitzer prize winner.
right there with you chuck.
How would I be able to do that if the edges are uneven?So Charlie the Wallflower, unlike you, I know why I'm both happy and sad at the same time...2nd reading review:Just for the record, the weather today is fiery stale summer but the air is full of regrets.Reasons I gave this 4 stars before and now I'm giving it 5 and how it's one of Chuck's best:-it is boring at the beginning.
It's boring because Chuck is already talking about some things you'll only understand if you've read the whole book already.
Reading it again will make you appreciate the genius of Chuck.
كيف يمكنك أن لا تقع في حبّ كتاب بدأ بهذا السطر ؟ "By the time you read this you'll be older than you remember "هل تريد ان تصبح رسام ، هل تخليت عن احلامك ، هل هناك من يستغل موهبتك ؟من ضمن خطط قراءتي لعام 2015 كانت اكمال قراءة باقي اعمال تشاك بولانيكو قد وقع اختياري للبدء علي هذه الروايـة المذكرة بالتأكيد السبب الرئيسي للبدء بهذا الكتاب لان بطلته رسامةلان هذا الكتاب ، للرساميـن ، الفنانين ، لكل شخص له رغبه في الابتكار و الفنلان هذا الكتاب يتكلم  ، عن الالهام  "Who knows where an idea comes from ,
كيف يمكنك أن لا تقع في حبّ كتاب بدأ بهذا السطر ؟ "By the time you read this you'll be older than you remember "هل تريد ان تصبح رسام ، هل تخليت عن احلامك ، هل هناك من يستغل موهبتك ؟من ضمن خطط قراءتي لعام 2015 كانت اكمال قراءة باقي اعمال تشاك بولانيكو قد وقع اختياري للبدء علي هذه الروايـة المذكرة بالتأكيد السبب الرئيسي للبدء بهذا الكتاب لان بطلته رسامةلان هذا الكتاب ، للرساميـن ، الفنانين ، لكل شخص له رغبه في الابتكار و الفنلان هذا الكتاب يتكلم  ، عن الالهام 
palahniuk has a flair for quirky juxtaposition in his imagery, something i appreciate -- and probably the only thing i really appreciated in diary.
just for the record, the 'just for the record' repeating business was super annoying.
i don't mind an occasional repeat - the cadence can be quite charming at times.
i put this book down for over a month, and it's the first time i haven't read a book straight through.
still, i can tell palahniuk is a good writer (or at least has the potential to be), and will likely check out more of his work...someday.
Always the strange shit, Chuck.
How an artist was brought to a master plan by a strange group of Island people, to do her art, convince her to do her art and fulfill the prophecy of saving the Island.
It felt like it was shortened and brought to a conclusion immediately just so Chuck could end it.
Making it look like some hidden clues for deciphering something that might come in handy when Chuck leaves the world, make a name of his own, as the author with readers disgusted by his works..
I like the book.
Though I never knew what her mural looked like, I'd say it was perfect that people were burned to death.
Misty lives on Waytansea Island with a husband in a coma and a mother in law who seems bent on pushing her to be the famous artist everyone seems to think she is.
While Misty went to school for art, she takes it as an insult that everyone thinks she, a poor white trash girl, should be producing great works of art.
Misty's story gets stranger as her mother in law and those around her all seem to be conspiring and pushing for the art they "know" she can produce.
Definitely a good read for Palahniuk fans or anyone who likes novels that don't follow anything relatively normal.
Suo marito nel frattempo ha tentato in suicidio ed è in coma, e la loro bambina viene plagiata dalla vecchia Grace, la nonna paterna che ha una passione particolare nel programmare la vita della nuora, Misty.Se è vero che da una grande sofferenza scaturisce l'arte più pura ci saranno persone che si prodigheranno affinchè Misty possa patire le pene dell'inferno.Se esiste qualcosa da conoscere che non si impara ma si ricorda, saranno le persone attorno alla protagonista a permetterle di ricordare.E' davvero un libro meraviglioso, e non voglio indugiare oltre perchè potrei svelare più del dovuto, sappiamo che Palahniuk ama sconvolgere la trama a poche pagine dal finale, e con questo ho già aiutato molto.
If anything, Palahniuk is a slightly sour rip off of Pynchon's Lot 49.A lot of the book seemed unnecessary to the story, which is why I was able to finish it so quickly.
The story is told from an interesting perspective (diary written to unconscious husband of manipulated/used wife who ends up being heroine), but it just doesn't hit a voice or tone that is an interesting as the perspective.Misty Marie (artist) is a loser with a brain dead husband, a controlling mother in-law and a daughter who is on the mother in-law's side, I guess?
It's twisted and spooky, and made me feel a little sick to my stomach on more than one occasion.
It reminded me of Dunn's _Geek Love_ a little, in that I felt both entranced and disgusted by the characters in the stories, and I just knew that the outcome wouldn't be good...had that nagging, sinking dread feeling while reading the entire thing; yet, the narrative in both was so driving and compelling that I didn't even want to stop for a minute.
And, you know what, it looks like I've taken care of my review of _Geek Love_, too.
A public bookshelf where you can give or take books for free.As I read, I kept noticing little dots or lines penciled in beside the text.
Did indicate some text the reader didn't understand?For most of the book I was more intrigued by this mystery than by the book itself.Nevertheless, the last 20% of the book was unputdownable, so that more or less makes up for the slow start.
I probably never would have read another of Chuck's books if I hadn't found this one for free.
I am most definitely kind of glad I read it.
I'll give it that.Anyway, the book was more than worth what I paid for it.
Chuck always has that mysterious way of introducing his character, from all the personal traits to surprise twist flashback and current personalities, the plot itself already a twist to me but reading Diary in a form of a diary from a narrator that seems not really a narrator was kind of clever yet weird.
The first few chapters was okay to me, I got curious about Peter and Misty, Wilmot family in general-- quite intriguing.
A bit stressful to further reading it till the end.
It was okay anyway just not my favorite from Chuck.
So angry!Anytime you see so many varying opinions of a book, it's worth picking up, even if you'll just be taking part in a literary car accident: you just HAVE to look to see why everyone is slowing down.
I'll bet Chuck's airbags went off after this book, but I think it's possible that it's just a fender bender.I think a lot of Palahniuk's work is like a drunk guy shooting arrows at a bunch of children lined up against a wall with apples on their heads.
I did like this book.
I know people like this.
I think Palahniuk is a lot like Vonnegut (and some might disagree with me here).
However, the islanders are on their quest for a new artist BECAUSE they remember their happy days so well and want to get back to them.The book itself is short, but I did find it slightly tedious and it took me way too long to read (although lots was going on here making it difficult to sneak away with my book the past few days).
The whole "plot twist" at the end was a bit too hard to take, but certainly explained how Misty was able to paint the island before she ever saw it.Overall I am kind of ambivalent.
2006 notebook: a run of disappointing books: David Peace's 1977 disappointing; Palahniuk's Diary about disappearing bathrooms a disappointment. Sophisticated Boom Boom, a growing-up-in- Eniskillen-in-the-punk-era a disappointment.
Diary by Chuck Palahniuk is a suspenseful, darkly twisted read.
I’ve come to expect a certain level of disturbing and shocking content in a Chuck Palahniuk novel, enough to make me cringe but at the same time make it so I can’t look away.
One of the things I love most about Chuck Palahniuk books is that he always includes really random and fascinating bits of information in his novels.
You’d be really surprised what’s in some of it.The plot of Diary felt different from the other Palahniuk novels I’ve read.
Capítulo a capítulo, es decir, día a día en la entrada de este «diario» se nos relata en primera persona la vida de Misty, aspirante de pintora, de artista, venida a menos, venida a casi nada.Sin embargo, en las últimas páginas ya estás cansado.
Insisto, el libro funciona, y no me extraña por qué es tan rimbombante y efectista el nombre del autor, a quien muchos conocimos a través de la otrora artificiosa película (basada en otra novela de él) The Fight Club.Lectura fácil, en cuanto que cualquier persona con dos dedos de frente puede entender casi de cabo a rabo.
Novel ini perihalnya tentang seorang ibu tunggal (suaminya koma setelah cubaan bunuh diri yang gagal) yang berbakat seni melukis diekploitasi supaya menghasilkan sebuah karya agung oleh keluarga suaminya semata-mata mahu mengubah taraf hidup setiap empat generasi keluarga dan sekolektif penduduk di sebuah pulau yang menjadi hamba konsumer rentetan lambakan kehadiran pelancong luar ke pulau mereka yang telah dikomersialkan.Mereka percaya sesebuah karya agung hanya mampu diterjemahkan melalui penyeksaan mental dan fizikal secara tak langsung karya malah pelukis itu sendiri kemudiannya akan terus terpateri di ingatan sampai bila-bila sama ada melalui karya agung yang telah dikerjakan atau balik cerita proses pembikinan.
At first I annoyed with all the dates, but then, i ignored them, maybe that's another point which make this book unique, it's a diary anyway...
I have to re-read the beginning of the book for few times, when it's talking about face muscles...
So, basically the review (at the back cover) has ruined my imagination and make this book pretty predictable, and another point by me, i do not really like the end of the story, sort of an anti-climax, a typical Hollywood ending.All the ancient painters are the witches, who are doing witchcrafts by concocting colored potions for the paintings.
She was an art student before she married her schlub of a husband, Peter, who brought her back to Waytansea Island, which is some kind of shitty little tourist town with insular, busybody, slightly creepy locals and well-heeled visitors.
Now Misty is a fat, aging, for-all-practical-purposes single mother who cleans hotels, takes care of her daughter, and reflects bitterly on the death of her artistic dreams and why she ever married Peter.It turns out that the island's residents are creepier than you think.
She begins to find clues left around the island that other women have come here before her in similar circumstances.
