https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/833535.George_and_Martha
James Marshall pens five short pieces about two hippos who are the best of friends: George and Martha.- Split Pea Soup: George attends lunch with Martha every day and on each occasion split pea soup is on the menu.
However, Martha sees him and has a lesson that George will not soon forget.- The Flying Machine: George has a chance to ride in a hot air balloon, but things do not seem to 'get off the ground'.
There, a solution is found and George is glowing in no time.Neo enjoyed these five pieces about hippos, particularly those who are the best of friends.
Is there something in the George and Martha series that reminds me of a comic strip. Each of the three or four pages of the story seems like a box in a comic strip.
Who doesn't love George and Martha?! I loved this book as a child and have read this many times to my own.
This is a story in which Martha, a hippopotamus, loves to look at herself in the mirror; George (also a hippopotamus) plays a trick on her to get her to stop doing that, and the moral of the story is supposed to be that she deserved it because she shouldn't have been so vain.
I note that the previous story, "The Tub", is about how George likes to peek in windows, and Martha gets mad at him because he is peeking in on her WHILE SHE IS TAKING A BATH.
The book is five extremely short stories about two good friends - George and Martha. It’s a decent book, but I wouldn’t go out of my way to buy it for someone
Two of my favorite characters!Each book usually contains five short stories.
Very short.
Very short.
But oh so fun!Ages: 3 - 8Cleanliness: one odd story has George peeking into the window when Martha is taking a bath.**Like my reviews?
I also have hundreds of detailed reports that I offer too.
These reports give a complete break-down of everything in the book, so you'll know just how clean it is or isn't.
I also have Clean Guides (downloadable PDFs) which enable you to clean up your book before reading it!
Visit my website: The Book Radar.
it was funny
George and Martha is an old favorite for me and is a new favorite for my three year old daughter as well. George and Martha are two great friends who have some quirky stories and adventures. Children will love reading these silly stories and also understand the power of friendship. I would read this to my students or just have the books available in the classroom library for personal reading. I could see this book turning into a fun writing prompt to have the students write their own George and Martha story.
George and Martha inspired me to write my own book about hippos when I was in third grade. It involved the underground railroad (which I thought was literally a railroad reached by trapdoor) and a claw-foot bathtub.
Childhood favorite not good enough for my child.
This was so cute. I love how it ended how it started with the little moral that "friends tell the truth." A great example of applying what one has learned and seeing on the bright side.
The five stories are Split Pea Soup, The Flying Machine, The Tub, The Mirror, and The Tooth.Strengths: -Simple, unbusy illustrations-Very short vignettes that still convey a story and message.Weaknesses: -The 1970s minimalist color scheme looks very dull and boring today-Outdated vocabulary that might be hard for a modern child to understand-Situations that may have been humorous in the 1970s may be inappropriate for a children’s book todayGeorge and Martha is not about the founding father and his wife, but instead about a couple of hippos who are friends.
George and Martha is not a bad book, but I would choose more modern picture books to use with young children today instead.
Children are much more likely to know where they are headed in their own writing if there's a problem to be solved at the outset.
I also noticed strong links between the first story 'Split pea soup' and the social/emotional work about honesty and feelings we were doing in class at the time.
Somehow we managed to pull all these elements together and students worked in groups to create humorous stories of their own.Thanks  James Marshall - your books keep on giving and we got great mileage out of George and Martha so far, and we all learnt what a loafer is.
I always loved this series growing up.
Now, however, I am looking at it through more mature and knowledgeable eyes.
While I still absolutely love George and Martha, I was a little surprised at some of the content!
Most of the stories were okay, but "The Tub"...
that was inappropriate!!
But, at the same time, I guess little ones have to learn about Peeping Toms sooner or later...better have it be with a loved one reading this story!
Not something that I knew how to explain to my nephew, though...I'll leave that to his parents!Overall we enjoyed all of the stories!!
The power of friendship is always something that everyone should learn about and cherish.
A good way for a person to learn about this is through this book.
I like how the book doesn’t teach friendship by some serious and overly dramatic way, but as a humorous and often times goofy.
This tone of happiness also shows in its illustration.
The colors which seem to be crayoned have an upbeat feel as well as the characters portraits of gigantic hippos with equally gigantic teeth.
I highly recommend telling kids reading this book not just because of its lesson, but because it’s just really good.
I really liked reading George and Martha, and thought it was a wonderful inspiring book, that little kids would enjoy. It would be a great book to read to a class because it would help teach kids about the bonding of friendships and especially learning the golden rule "Treat others the way you want to be treated." I think a great activity to do with this book would be having the kids think of ways that you good be a good friend to someone and write a story about an adventure you took with this friend.
I love this series. I told the librarian the other day that George and Martha should be marriage counselors. One of my favorite lines is, "And Martha didn't say a word." This after she jumped off the dreaded high dive to save George's self-respect. I love George's gold tooth (the original was lost in a roller skating accident) and the flower Martha wears behind her ear. My kind of humor, and even my kids get it.
The other day I was intensely aware of the corruption in the world, and so searching for something pure and true, I dug through my favorite childhood books and was delighted to find James Marshall's George and Martha. I'd somehow forgotten about these two lovable buffoons. I have to admit that I sat and read this three times in a row, with a hugs smile on my face. Thank you Mr. Marshall for reminding me of the beauty of simplicity.
Rediscovering Old Favorites with My Kids James Marshall's George and Martha stories were some of my favorite read-aloud books when I was a kid (back when dinosaurs roamed the earth). I thought the idea of pouring split pea soup into one's loafers was hilarious, and I loved the way Martha got revenge on George for violating her privacy in the bathtub. Now, I am delighted to find that these stories are truly timeless, and my little boys (1 and 3) love them as much as I did.
This is a great friendship book. Sometimes, friends need space. It's okay for friends to want space and it's okay for friends to want to do other things. Sometimes young kids forget these things and they panic the first time someone says they don't want to hang out with them for the day. This would be a good book for the students to read who are going through friend troubles or friends who are in a fight!
Always be honest with your friends.Sometimes friends can be selfish, or have their own best intrests in mind.Friends need privacy.Dont be self-centered...it annoys your friends.Always be kind to your friends.I remember just loving this as a kid...no particular reason...
George and Martha are "friends" that learn a lot from each other. That cheeky George learns not to be a peeping Tom from Martha, too. What are friends for, right?
George and Martha: The Complete Stories of Two Best Friends: Buy this, read this, even if you have no kids. The stories are hilarious and sweet.
Aaamm........K? ,🤔🤔🤔🤔🤔🤗
George likes to look in windows. What else is there to say?The first story was engaging, tho very short. The others were too short. And again, George likes to look in windows!
I LOVE, LOVE, LOVE this!!!(Even though I *do* like split pea soup...:D)
This is the first book of the George and Martha and series. A simple picture book of short stories. A little too moralistic for me. But good enough art and text. Not bad.
I like imagining myself and my husband in 20 years as George and Martha. Though they're sweet, this book is outdated and probably wouldn't be engaging for today's kids.
Laugh out loud funny-I can't believe I haven't read these...or maybe I was just too little to remember them.
For some reason, this book just didn't hit the spot for me.
I don't really like the stories.
The Tub definitely hit a wrong chord with me.
And split pea soup was a creative way to teach kids to put the food they don't like in their slippers.
I'm just really taken back about how many readers give it 5 stars and say it is a favorite.
How did it get 4+ stars average rating?
It just doesn't hit up there with so many other childrens' classics that are 4-5 stars.
So, no, the best I can do is 2 stars.
