https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/305854.Playing_for_the_Ashes
I haven't always been fond of George's narrative style, and in the later books, the different POVs drove me nuts. That said, this book has one of the best characterization I've read in her books. Brilliant.
Dieses Mal war sehr viel Handlung auf ein psychologisches Profil einer der Beteiligten ausgelegt, eine Art Tagebuch / Rückschau, was alles vor dem Mord vorgefallen ist. Das hat mir etwas zu viel Raum eingenommen, wodurch die Ermittlungen zu kurz kamen. Trotzdem war es insgesamt wieder sehr spannend bis zum Schluss!
There are suspects abound for Lynley and Havers, plenty of motives for the death of Kenneth Fleming, who all in all was a likable guy, but thoroughly misguided.
The story is told in two ways, one written like a personal diary by Olivia Whitelaw, a very unlikable character by all accounts, her mother taught Kenny at school and at the time of his death, was his mentor and was providing him with a home since the breakdown of his marriage.
I love how Ms. George keeps you guessing to the very end, always a pleasure for me.
Playing for the Ashes is the 7th book in the Inspector Lynley mystery series.
Like all of her books, even a seemingly open and shut case is vastly complicated, as the motives for murder, and equally unhelpful suspects, slowly amass.
You feel like you’re working the case with the detectives; sometimes you even start to feel loyalties and prejudices toward certain characters.
Don’t even get me started on Lynley and Havers, possibly my favorite detective team ever.
As much as I love her, it’s almost like every time I want to pick up the next book in the series, I have to mentally prepare myself for a long, long reading trek.
Book 7 in the Inspector Lynley seriesThis is one edge of the seat gripping mystery offering several plots within its main plot, a great work of detective fiction, one of Ms George’s best.The story opens when the body of England’s leading batsman Kenneth Fleming is discovered in a burnt out country cottage, an apparent victim of arson.
Inspector Lynley and his partner Barbara Havers are called in from Scotland Yard to help the local police.
Olivia who provides much of the story in her own words is a rich and complex character.
Since you really should read this series in order (the personal lives of Lynley and Havers are actually at the forefront of the action in almost every one of these novels, as are the distraught self-immolating suspects), the emotional level might be reduced because a reader beginning with the newer books will, in my opinion, not receive the full blast of emo crazy Elizabeth George injects into each and every book in the series.
Jeannie has been put upon for years and that last encounter may have been the final straw.Peeking at some of other reviews for this particular story, yes, I'd agree that George weighted the story down with in-depth analyses of the other characters that weren't necessary such as Mollinson…but, it was so very fascinating to read her fully-fleshed characters.The StoryThe unexpected discovery of Kenneth Fleming when he's supposed to be flying to Greece for a boating holiday with his son throws everyone, including the Kent constabulary for a loop.Worse, there are so many who would like to see him dead.The CharactersDetective Inspector Lynley plays the press and gets in hot water for it with his superiors at the Yard.
The soap opera is more engrossing than usual, even though the first character introduced, Olivia, is so vile that I thought for a while that I wasn't going to enjoy the book at all.
Her story is presented in first person, as she's writing an accounting of her life, and the early chapters are seriously off-putting.Because of the title (the term "the Ashes" signifies victory in test cricket against Australia) I was half hoping, half dreading that there would be a lot of information about that mysterious English sport, but there isn't much.
The book has nothing to do with Australia, either.
A typical George mystery, with her detectives Lynley and Havers well, convincingly, and likeably written and a few of the other characters scarcely believable and frankly nauseating.
She overwrites: "Sodden cornflakes and ever-darkening banana slices marked the trajectory of the cereal bowl she'd upended." First, this is too many adjectives.
Second, no one cares about the trajectory of some cornflakes and banana slices.
But occasionally she will semi-redeem herself by having Chief Superintendent Hillier call Lynley a "glib little fanny rat." What a fanny rat is, exactly, I don't know.
I thought this one was an improvement over Missing Joseph, the last entry in the Lynley Mysteries and my least favorite of the novels to date.
That one barely featured my favorite character in the partnership of Detective Inspector Thomas Lynley and Detective Sergeant Barbara Havers--here she's back in form.
It's these women, and those connected with them--Miriam's daughter, Jean's son, Gabrielle's lovers and husband--who hold the key to his death.
In a departure from George's usual style, the third person narrative is punctuated throughout with chapters in first person from the point of view of Olivia Whitelaw, the daughter of Miriam.
Also I realized after the sixth book, Missing Joseph, that I actively dislike Deborah.
At first in the series, I was interested in how Deborah was connected to Lynley and Simon, but once that was explained, I had a hard time understanding or sympathizing with her feelings about motherhood.
Each time George delved into Deborah's personal drama in Missing Joseph, I was uncomfortably reminded that she is 24--so young and, despite being married, so immature.
Feelings about Deborah aside, I like the balance between Havers' and Lynley's personal lives and the mysteries large and small in Playing for the Ashes.
Ik heb al meer delen van deze serie gelezen.
De boeken van Elizabeth George hebben altijd een wat trage opbouw en het duurt vaak lang tot je bij de ontknoping bent.
Als ik dan nog weinig tijd had om te lezen, begon ik niet altijd meer aan een nieuw hoofdstuk.
Daardoor duurde het toch wat langer voor ik het boek uit had.
Naar mijn idee zelfs iets vlotter dan andere delen die ik gelezen heb.
Ik ga zeker nog wel weer een deel van de serie lezen.
Maar nu heb ik even behoefte aan een ander soort boek.
Although there are the main characters of Thomas Lynley (posh detective and reluctant Lord), frumpy but ballsey sidekick policewoman, best friend handicapped forensic scientist who is married to his butler's beautiful photographer daughter who once ran around with said posh detective, etc.
One book may be told from the main detective's point of view, the next from the sidekicks', the next may keep these characters in the background while the focus is on the more direct participants in the crime at hand.
In all the books, the author creates several different story lines that interweave cleverly.
This is the 7th book in the series.
I'm very fond of the author's writing style and her extensive vocabulary.
This book held my attention but as I drew close to the conclusion I found I wasn't totally satisfied.
Perhaps with this mystery she will expound on final results, but I'm truly dubious about that occurring.
Other authors have left me wondering about the final result and I guess they opt for the reader to draw her on conclusion.
I'm not one who likes to do that.
Aside from that I want to continue reading her books as I thoroughly enjoy her.
As with others in this series, "Playing for the Ashes" gets bogged down in parts. However, unlike the others, this one spent so much time on the life of one of its characters, the reader could easily forget (s)he was reading a police procedural. The investigation seemed to play much less of a role, making this more character-driven.
This book is way, way too long. By the time I had 150 pages left I didn't care who did it, I just wanted it to be over.
Now this review might be a bit biased because I am a huge fan of the Inspector Lynley series on PBS and while I know that in the novels he is blonde, I couldn't help picturing Nathaniel Parker.
That being said, this novel did not disappoint me in the slightest.
The prose was easy to fall into, the characters were flawed and real and compelling, and there was a good balance between the detectives personal lives and what was happening in the mystery.
I just really enjoyed everything about this novel and will find the rest of the series to actually read them in order.
While the early Inspector Lynley books are great reading, I am finding that author Elizabeth George matured in her story-telling as time progresses.These are not merely police procedurals/whodunits, but also character studies and the intricacies of human relationships. Two-thirds of the way through "Playing for the Ashes," the reader is reluctant to consider nearly all of the leading characters as the murderer.Plots within plots, the return of favorite main characters, an interesting cast of new characters and wonderfully descriptive writing make this a page-turner -- and a heart-tugger.
I like the series okay, but in a year I have only gotten this far so in interest of all the books on my tbr I am calling quits.
One of England's best batsmen has been murdered.
The investigation unravels his complicated personal relationships: his wife and their three children, including a rebellious 16-year-old boy; his mistress, her husband (a team sponsor), and another of her lovers (the team captain); his former fifth form teacher and benefactor, along with her terminally-ill daughter and her housemate.
So, which one killed Kenneth Fleming, and why?And why did I read this book after not liking the previous two installments in the series?
And why haven't I really enjoyed this series?
Because it's too much like a soap opera.
Only it takes place in England and features the British upper class, plus all these English locations that Americans would just adore.
Ken Fleming, England's cricket superstar, has died in a fire in Kent.
Since the fire is determined to be arson, and several persons of interest are in London, Inspector Lynley is asked to the local inspector.
Meanwhile Olivia Whitelaw, long estranged from her family, and suffering from ALS begins a journal explaining the estrangement as well as the dilemmas facing her about her future care, and what she knows that might assist Lynley.
And through it all, Lynley and Helen are still trying to define their relationship.
Barbara Havers has moved to her new cottage and is struggling to redefine her life.
This was an excellent read.
I liked this Lynley mystery more than some of the earlier novels. It was a relief to step away from the St. James/Deborah/adoption melodrama and focus more on the plot than on the subplot romances. As usual, Havers is one of the better characters, funny and salty.The mystery itself was interesting, if a little drawn-out. The Olivia segments could have been trimmed down considerably, although I did like the first-person narrative chapters she offered.I'll keep reading this series, but every time I finish one I feel vaguely disgusted with myself.
My first Elizabeth George, I don't remember enough to write a review. What I can remember is being mesmerized and not being able to put it down. I haven't read a lot of her books, the size is a bit daunting but my intention is to start at the beginning and read through. It came as a huge surprise to me that the author is American, would never have guessed it. I think reading through them will be a worthwhile journey.
Another good one in the Inspector Lynley series. In this one, it's not so much a who-dun-it, since I figured out early on what was going on. But it was still an enjoyable read. It left a few things dangling at the end, so you're not sure how things eventually turned out with some of the characters, but I guess that's like life, isn't it?
the new year is all about reading mysteries in mass paperback sizes for me and catching up on series that I have not completed. this was a good entry in this series. she is such a good writer (and there are so many bad ones in this genre) though I did think the story was a little long-winded and "slight" in the end.
While I did like this better than the others from this series that I've read, I wasn't crazy about it. There was way too much going on, from cricket to animal rights to ALS to family relationships. All the threads did tie up in the end, but I would have liked it better if a few of them had been edited out.
Elizabeth George is the best mystery author I have found. She's a master of intricate character development and her mystery novels read like classic English lit. The story and characters always hook you in...
This one stunk.
my favorite in the series. Really tight plot and great pace.
