https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/9572203-the-snowman
When Jonas’ mother turns up missing, he finds the pink scarf he’d given her as a present, wrapped around the snowman.
One of the problems with serial killers like The Snowman is there is nothing readily apparent that ties them to their victims, so basically you have to wait until a new victim appears and hope the killer makes a mistake.
The case becomes all too personal as Harry’s new partner, Katrine, and Rakel become targeted by…the Snowman.
In the end I had to hope that Harry would weave enough clues together to form a noose around the killer.
This is a re-read for me, it is the 7th in the Harry Hole series set in Oslo, Norway.
A young boy finds his mother missing and goes outside.
There he finds a snowman has appeared, adorned with a scarf belonging to his mother.
That is until Harry gets a letter from the killer looking to lock horns with him.
My re-read confirms to me that this is one of the better books in the series, although The Redbreast is my favourite.
Looking forward to seeing the film.
Great effort went into making this little guy look good - a borrowed cap and scarf from dad - a few buttons from mum's sewing box - however, the snowman in Jo Nesbo's thriller doesn't have such pleasant connotations, on the contrary, it elicits feelings of abject terror!November in Oslo, and the first snowfall of the year covers the gloomy landscape.
And so begins Harry Hole's seventh investigation in this extremely popular series.Investigations reveal that numerous women have gone missing over the years, all of them on the day of a first snowfall, but their bodies have never been found.
Nesbo, a Norwegian author, is one of the Scandinavian noir mystery/police detective writers.
This book is one of a dozen he has written featuring the police detective Harry Hole.
she?) is obviously toying with the police.It’s a long book (500 pages in the paperback I read) and during the story, Harry solves the case five times!
It’s truly amazing to think that Norway could produce five people capable of dismembering women and taunting the police by leaving clues in a snowman, but there you have it, and it’s a tribute to Nesbo’s writing that these five scenarios and the clues and motives all seemed plausible at the time.It’s also a tribute to Nesbo’s writing that I never felt lost or overwhelmed by the complicated plot – you just have to make a bit of an effort to keep track of character names.
The murder of young women and the use of snowmen as creepy calling card was interesting for the first bit then you have to trudge through 70% of the novel and about a million forgettable suspects before you get to the end which saved this novel from being given a 1 star rating.
Not really the ending is good but I had to read a fuck ton of nothing before anything of interest began.
Also I'm just going to go out on limb here after reading my second Harry Hole novel and assume that Jo Nesbo only writes women as whores, victims or crackpots.
Can Harry Hole have a strong female in his life whose panties don't seem to disintegrate around him because he soooo irresistible??
or maybe I’m listening to some NPR podcast or something, but I hear about this movie called The Snowman directed by the same guy who did Let the Right One In and based on a novel by this Jo Nesbo dude.
In fact, from now on, when I really like a book, and someone asks me what I thought about the book I read and liked, and I have a chance to respond, and I also love commas, anyway, I’m going to start responding by saying, “Man, that book was beyond fine.” Ask me what I thought about Jo Nesbo’s The Snowman.
Intense!!! I loved it!!! I really really liked the authors writing style. It was detailed, unique, and very intricate. I was googling stuff left and right. Lol. I can't wait for the movie with Michael Fassbender!! Yum!!
Here's the thing about the recent popularity of Scandinavian writers and if you're a Nordic Thriller aficionado you couldn't care less about the distinction: the novels are depressed, somber, filled with ennui, a lack of humor, with flawed characters if not suffused with a strong tendency towards determinism; in short, whether you're reading Stieg Larsson, Henning Mankell, or Jo Nesbo you are likely reading Literary Naturalism.
'we'll have to begin at the other end.
in bergen!''no,' harry whispered with the last air he had left in his lungs.
'bergen's not an end.
snippets like the excerpt above just tell me the author believes very driven women who put themselves through law school and later work their way through a mostly male police force would use menstruation as a crutch.
couple that with all the transparent naming of movies & bands and i feel like i know more about the author himself than i do about a detective about whom i've now read four books.
So, there is just something about the way that Nesbo writes that just loses me.Also, while I don’t mind sexual content in the book if it moves the plot, some of the random references in this book were quite extreme and seemed to be there more to shock than anything else.
I haven’t minded going through the series (a few of the books have been pretty enjoyable), but I am not sure I would have stuck with it if I did not have the goal of book 8!
Τέλειο. Η υπόθεση εκτυλίσσεται στο πιο κρύο και από το χιούμορ μου Όσλο όπου ο υπεργαμάτος Χάρι Χόλε καλείται να εξιχνιάσει μια σειρά από στυγερά εγκλήματα, ενός παλαβού που σκοτώνει με ένα συγκεκριμένο μοτίβο τα θύματά του. Δεν είναι εύκολο όμως να τον συλλάβει, γιατί αυτός δεν είναι άνθρωπος… αυτός είναι χιονάνθρωπος.10 αστεράκια.
I did not care for Harry Hole by the middle of the book but then his character was better for me by the end.
Once I get more information about his character, I'm sure I'm going to love this guy.So my advice is to start at the beginning of the series so you understand Harry Hole and all the other characters in the Oslo Police Department, along with his personal relationship with Rakel and Oleg.I loved how the book took us along on the case of catching the Snowman.
I enjoyed Jo Nesbo's writing style on building up the mystery and tension of who the Snowman was.
The Snowman is the seventh Harry Hole novel, so I felt a bit like I was overhearing the middle of a conversation.
Additionally, I found the frequent references to early 1990/2000s American politics a bit odd.However, once I had a chance to settle into the world of Harry Hole, I was hooked.
Hole is my kind of antihero- he's rough, full of action with little regard for politics or personal consequences, and determined to suss out the truth no matter what the outcome; yet he is still a man with a tender core, he has his own strong code of ethics and an intense respect for justice.
The British winter isn’t far away and if one of my neighbours decides to build a snowman in our quiet, secluded street, I’m booking the first flight to Barbados and running!
– They don’t have snow in Barbados do they?UPDATE:Full review and Movie Tie In Post on BlogTwo days ago I entered the world of the snowman and within seven pages I know I was hooked.
He cries out for his mother but when no one answers he walks out into the garden; the snowman is there and so is the pink scarf he gave his mother for Christmas.
His mother is missing.UPDATE:Full review and Movie Tie In Post on Blog
!!لقد التقيت بكاتب على درجة من الأحترافية التى لم التقيها قبلاًرجل الثلج هو قاتل متسلسل يقتل النساء المتزوجات واللاتي لديهن أطفال ...لابد وأن هناك شيئاً مشتركاً بينهن جميعاً ؟ قد لاتُبالي بالكشف عن القاتل أمام عبقرية " المحقق هارى" والذي يتمتع بذكاء خارق من حيث ترابط الأحداث والتنبه لأدق التفاصيل وأصغرها لا يدع كلمة يسمعها تمر دونما ان يخزنها بذاكرته ويستعيدها سريعاً عند الحاجة إليها فمهما بدت أى حادث تافهة ..هى في الحقيقة تخفي الكثير من الجدية والاهميةيعرف كيف يطرد الخوف عنه ويسيطر عليه ليس قوة منه بل إيماناً بإنه يمكننا دفع الخوف عنا بمواجهته وليس بالهروب منه..ولكن على ما يبدو إن هؤلاء الذين يتمتعون بعقل مُتقد ..
You are sick.Somewhat higher ratio of detective work to fluff in this book.
One very good scene of detectives at work, then more fluff and cliche.
And less than 20% in, there is a very unpleasant murder, described in FIRST PERSON victim's detail, brutal and unrelenting, and presented as titillation and gratuitous sick violence.
Super-Ugh.In my rarely humble opinion, there are only two reasons an author includes such graphic brutality: 1) they want to sell more books to sicko readers and/or 2) they are a sicko themselves.
I am done, Final Goodbye Jo Nesbo you sick feck!
L’alternanza va a farsi benedire, io divoro il libro in questione, quello che rientra in ‘questo genere di libri’ e dopo, una volta divorato, mi ritrovo davanti la lettura lenta e complessa che non è progredita di una pagina.E mi chiedo cosa ci sia di così avvolgente e attraente e gustoso ed emozionante nella solita caccia al solito noiosissimo serial killer, che sembrano tutti geni del male, quando invece sono sempre solo schizzatelli, più o meno dichiarati.
Harry believes that a serial killer is at work, though his bosses remain skeptical, especially since the bodies of the missing women have never been found.
The Brass would prefer to believe that the women simply abandoned their families and ran off.They're forced to reconsider, though, when Harry receives a letter, apparently from the killer, whom the police now dub the Snowman.
The Snowman apparently believes that he's the most successful serial killer of all, certainly in Norway, and he seems to want to match wits with Norway's most famous serial killer hunter--Harry Hole.
You should read this if you like: atmospheric crime thrillers/mysteries, detective novels with compelling characters, smart serial killers, cat/mouse dynamics.Reading the The Snowman at 1 am last night, at one point I was so terrified I started seeing monsters in the dark.
Snowman is a deeply disturbing book which begins with the possible murder of a woman in 1980 on the first day of snowfall.
Like me, you don’t need to read the books in order; they work quite well as standalones.
5 stars and I can’t recommend this book enough for those who love reading thrillers, crimes, mysteries, and detective novels.
Bush's re-election as president was a good thing for international security because his advisers are brilliant; ignoring the fact that those clever minds thought the invasion of Iraq was a good idea, that surely Sadam Hussein was hiding WMDs (even though his hiding his own weakness was just as plausible) and that they came into office thinking the great security issue they'd face would be ballistic missile defense (as opposed to terrorism.)At another point, a supposedly smart detective comments that highly-intelligent people are obsessed with IQ, for after all, they have a whole society built on it (Mensa.) This ignores the fact that Mensa is a fairly small organization; about 100,000 members despite being international and with a potential membership of tens of millions (2% of the whole world.) You would have more reason to look at the historic membership of the Ku Klux Klan (over a million at one point in just the United States) and claim that 'white people sure are obsessed with being white.'At still another point, a supposedly clever TV psychologist (or something like that) claims that humans revere heroic losses more than victories and uses Napoleon's defeat at Waterloo as his prime example.
But it’s far too long, so many red herrings it became tedious, and there were some utterly pointless non-sequiturs (eg the mould man, or was I missing some subtle reference there?), and the writing is dreadfully clumsy (the sex scene in the first chapter had me helpless with laughter which I don’t think was the intention), and excessively detailed in description, as if the writer was thinking of the eventual film adaptation – and with some ruthless excisions, I’m sure this book would make a tense and entertaining two hour film, which is probably a better way to experience it than the much longer time it takes to read it.
This is my first Jo Nesbø novel, but it won’t be my last.I’ve wanted to read Nesbø for years, and the fact that this book – considered one of his best – is currently being made into a film, starring Michael Fassbender as the jaded, alcoholic Oslo detective Harry Hole, was a selling point.
There’s one particular prop I’m eager to see on screen (although I might be shielding my eyes while watching); I just can’t picture how it works.I didn’t find much depth to Hole, but I chalk that up to the fact that I’ve missed the previous six books.
Δεν θα πρωτοτυπήσω, με κράτησε από την αρχή μέχρι το τέλος με την καταιγιστική του δράση και τις συνεχείς ανατροπές. Πολύ ενδιαφέρον πορτρέτο του Χάρi Χόλε, δεν γράφω τίποτε άλλο με τον κίνδυνο τυχόν spoilers. Άκρως κινηματογραφικό βιβλίο που ευελπιστώ στην μεταφορά του να ανταποκριθεί στις προσδοκίες των fans.
This was my first book by this author and I'm definitely going to more, because I absolutely devoured this one!I had a suspicion how everything is going to pan out from early on and was proved to be correct, but I still was questioning myself throughout the story, because there were so many twists and turns.I often find several plot twists in crime books to be annoying, simply because they are too overdone, but that totally wasn't the case here.
Everything still seemed realistic and fitting.The writing style was great, I truly felt a huge amount of suspense and even had to take a moment to catch my breath at some parts.
I also felt connected to the characters and now want to find out more about them.
Όταν στην μέση περίπου του βιβλίου κατάλαβα τον δολοφόνο, ενοχλήθηκα κάπως. Μετά όμως σκέφτηκα ότι μπορεί τον Nesbo να μην τον ενδιαφέρει ο αιφνιδιασμός του αναγνώστη.Οπότε χαλάρωσα και απόλαυσα πράγματι ένα πολύ καλό αστυνομικό μυθιστόρημα. Ο Χάρι Χόλε γίνεται ιδιαιτέρως συμπαθής, αν και δεν καταφέρνει να ξεφύγει από το στερεότυπο του πρωταγωνιστή που έχω πετύχει σε ΟΛΑ τα αστυνομικά: Μυστήριος, με ροπή στις καταχρήσεις και κατεστραμμένη προσωπική ζωή. Η ιστορία όμως στο σύνολο της παραμένει αρκετά ενδιαφέρουσα με δεμένη πλοκή, ικανή να σου κρατήσει αμείωτο το ενδιαφέρον.
Nesbø creates his best novel in the series to date, placing Harry Hole and the larger cast of characters in a fast-paced race to discover Norway's first serial killer.
Using the apt moniker "The Snowman" for the killer, Hole works alongside a new partner, Katrine Bratt, and they expand the investigation, finding previous murders scattered throughout Norway.
A fabulous story that pushes Harry Hole to the brink on numerous occasions, Nesbø keeps readers begging for more.I have been anticipating getting to this novel in the series for a while.
This book met all my requirements for a good thriller:1) It kept me on the edge of my seat for much of the time, AND the loads of suspects and false leads kept me guessing.2) There were interesting characters with not too much backstory on each.3) The suspenseful and bloody buildup led to a satisfying conclusion.Strange, that what chilled me most about the book was not the creepy serial killer, but the thought of someone working diligently in my yard, making a snowman that stares not out onto the road, but directly into my house. Brrrr!
I think I may have fallen into a Jo Nesbø hole.With a protagonist named (non-ironically) Harry Hole.Unfortunately, I've had shitacular luck with romance reads lately so I picked this up not realizing it was book 7 of a series.
The Snowman is a serial killer targeting women.
There are multiple POVs and one of those is the killer's and all of them had a distinct voice.Needless to say, I'll be reading more from this series.
I'm SUPER tempted to read the next one to figure out what the deal is with that random dangler but I want to know of Harry's beginnings.
Two parts mystery and one part thriller, this was all good Jo Nesbo writing.Nesbo’s 2007 Harry Hole book, the seventh in the series, finds our alcoholic, tough guy detective finally finding himself on the trail of a Norwegian serial killer.
This has been a running put-on up to now, since Hole went to Australia and ended that serial killer run.
When this infidelity results in moral and genetic problems, problems ensue, for the victims and for Harry who finds himself all tied up in finding the killer in time.I enjoy Nesbo’s writing, but he can be inconsistent and sometimes hard to follow.
It's been a so-so reading year for me. Thank God I chose to end it by stalking Lena, Alona, and Sofia. This is one hell of a book. It works on just about every level a good book should. I can't recommend it highly enough. If you like scares or thrills or just a good character study give these books a go.Editing to say the movie is really, really, really bad.
