https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/839263.David_Goes_to_School
Read with my daughter for a book report for school. Illustrations and pictures are cute, story line is good for kids and my daughter loves the David books! 5 stars for her :)
Ages: 3 - 6Cleanliness: Some grumpy attitudes shown.**Like my reviews? I also have hundreds of detailed reports that I offer too. These reports give a complete break-down of everything in the book, so you'll know just how clean it is or isn't. I also have Clean Guides (downloadable PDFs) which enable you to clean up your book before reading it! Visit my website!
two or three or four?*Dad: So, why did you want to read this book?
But then *another student* told him he spelled PORKside, and he told teacher and all the children laughed.Dad: You said you wanted to read it because it's a good book.
What makes it a good book?Gwen: Well, what makes it a good book is, sometimes I really like read books about kids who are naughty.Dad: Why do you think that is?Gwen: ...MMMmm...
I didn't really ever even see that happen.Dad: Do you want to see that happen sometime?Gwen: Not like...
Like a fiction book.Dad: Ok. So, let me ask another question.
How many David Shannon books have we read now? My children never tire of him and this was no exception. Even though I home school, the kids were still fascinated with the kinds of trouble that David could get into and again, totally relate. My 5 yr old loved it when David couldn't keep quiet, as he has the same problem, and my 2 yr old twins were wide-eyed at the colorful pictures of David in different school scenarios. Overall a fun read, as Shannon always is.
I hate the teeth on David.
I had one child who LOVED [title:No, David!].
I remembered David fondly.
When my youngest son started daydreaming about preschool as the ideal place for children, I checked out this title and a few others to help balance his perspective.
[title:David Goes to School] was the most helpful.
He wanted to know why David was so eager to stop learning, giving me the perfect opportunity to explain that school destroys the natural human urge to learn, just like forced feeding destroys the appetite.I recommend this for kids who will be homeschooled but are suffering from Yellow School Bus Syndrome.
This is the last time I go to the library and grab a bunch of children's books right before closing just to have something to read to my little boy.
"David goes to school" just continues the rash of bad kids books I've read to him in the last week.
Not only that, the David in this book was extremely scary looking.
Anyway, another dreadful book and to make up for it I've been allowing him to eat all the popsicles, suckers, donuts, chocolate, pizza, potato chips, cupcakes, honey buns that he ever wanted.
In this book you learn about David going to school.
Which didn’t get him far very much in the classroom with his teacher.Reading this story you learned early on the theme of this book .David always seems to be getting himself in trouble during school.
You can tell that is her because she is heard to say, “David don’t chew your gum.” Having these elements really helped with the tone of the story and being able to understand what is going on.
For the shape of the book I really enjoyed seeing things in 3D.
All in all while reading this I really enjoyed seeing the pictures in the book.
Evaluation: I like this book because I know how much little kids like it.
They think it is hilarious what David does.
Even the best behaved kids think this book is funny.
We all can relate David to someone we know or have in our class.Teaching Idea: I will use this book to teach about school rules.
I would create an anchor chart with school rules written on it and after we read this book, I would ask my class if they learned anything in the book that is a rule at school and we would add them to the chart and talk about why each rule is important.
Not a huge fan of the David books. I don't connect on a personal level with the character, I feel very put out with him and find the plot of "this boy just won't listen" to be tired.
David struggles with all of the things you are not supposed to do at school. He chews gum, talks out of turn, and simply can't stay in his seat. He learns that consequences follow his actions and must stay after school and clean desks as punishment. I think the Author David Shannon did a great job of writing and illustrating a almost wordless book for school-aged children to understand actions and consequences. I believe children will relate to this book.
This is another David Shannon story featuring the notorious David. David is still getting in to trouble but ultimately loved in the end.
David Shannon does an excellent job at making this story as funny as possible by detailing David’s adventures in a humorous way and he also illustrates David’s gleeful expressions as he is making trouble in school.
David Shannon’s illustrations are incredible as each person is drawn with large heads and sharp teeth, while the teacher remains faceless, just like the Mayor’s secretary from “The Powerpuff Girls.” “David Goes to School” is a delightful treat featuring everyone’s favorite little troublemaker and children would clearly relate to David as they think that what they are doing is the right thing even though it is the wrong thing to do.
As a future teacher, I draw a little bit of a connection between the David series of books, particularly David Goes to School.
David Shannon does a great job of writing and illustrating a nearly wordless picture book for school-aged children in the early grades.
With few words, reads are allowed to draw their own ideas and conclusions about what David is doing wrong (or right!) The illustrations are drawn to look as if children drew them, which I find interesting and unique.
I would liked to have seen a better ending to the book instead of David simply being punished and then sent home for the day.
Summary & A Thoughtful Review In a sequel to "No David!", David Shannon's highly energetic, somewhat troublesome character, David, is back to his usual antics, expect this time, at school.
As the saying goes, "he walks to the beat of his own drummer." As I read this book, I thought of two students in my classroom this year, who seem to mirror David's personality (and actions) almost to a "t." Sadly, I connected to the teacher's character, who is a constant "bug" in David's ear, reminding him right from wrong.
I love this book as a follow up - David's still having a lot of trouble following the rules.
This one is PERFECT for a kinder classroom, though, because unlike No, David, he's getting in trouble for things we're not supposed to do in school.
I always follow this one up with a T-chart, where we sort "good choices" and "bad choices" to make at school.I also like that the teacher in David Goes to School is clearly of the Love & Logic crowd- as in, let the punishment fit the crime.
And David's teacher loves him too :)
David is a student who gets in trouble a lot.
Because of his naughty behavior the teacher repeatedly tells him NO!
We learn what the teachers breaking point is, and the punishment that is finally brought on due to his poor behavior.
This is a great read everyone but especially teachers because you always have that one student that makes you want to pull your hair out in frustration.
I recommend this whole series to anyone as they help draw in the readers attention and bring fun into reading.
"David Goes To School" written by David Shannon is a simple, easy, quick read.
The text is big and the language is simple and not complex.
They know very little English, but they loved this book and were able to follow along.
The kids are ten and eight years old and both loved the illustrations.
I think any child can connect with this book the drawings and writing of the text is playful and looks like a kid made it which makes it all the more fun.
This book is a must read and will always be a classic in my heart.
Once again, this story is so fun and lively to read. It was one of my favorite books as a kid whenever we would go to our library time and everyone in my class would always fight to see who could grab it first. Kids can relate to the hard times of going to school and wanting to be disruptive, but I think the illustrations are unique and different. The cover alone is fun to stare at and take in everything going on. This is a must read for all students in elementary school.
Reading Level: Primary LevelThis picture book is excellent for teaching kindergartners and first graders how to act in school. The author's illustrations from when he was younger are amusing and entertaining. The students will definitely be able to relate to the drawings because it is very similar to their style of drawing. The illustrations really add to the minimal amount of text. Students can understand the story without even reading the text.
I read this book to my little brother before his first day of Kindergarten. David is such a fun character to share with young students and the simple text is easy for students to understand. I would use this in younger classes to connect with their feelings of school.
David goes to SchoolDavid ShannonThis book is about David who goes to school for the first time. He loves to learn about new things. He learns many lessons throughout the book. I recommend you read this book if you need 0.5 points :).
I love David! He is a typical, very curious little boy. This would be a good book to talk about rules and consequences when rules are broken. As a class, we can create our own classroom rules and appropriate consequences when they aren't followed.
What a great book! I originally bought this book for my daughter, but now I think that this would be a great book to read to my students on the first day of school!
I love the illustrations & like the story line (aka. teacher's instructions) ^_^ This book is better than  No David  because it was more in detail..
We read this book after we read No, David! the first week of school. The students love the illustrations and laugh throughout the entire book. We typically complete a craft after reading the book.
You're tardy!" "Sit down, David!" "Don't chew gum in class!" "David, raise your hand!" and "Keep your hands to yourself!" After a series of other teacher exclamations, the teacher finally tells David he has to stay late after school, to clean all of the student desks because he had chosen to draw all over his, near the end of the book.
The concept is repetitive, where David is always being yelled at.
I'm not sure how, but the ending as the way it is, is David stays after school for his detention and then goes home.
This technique helps children to understand a concept young readers are not yet familiar with- that illustrations are also able to be read, and like text, they too can tell the story.
As all the illustrations are of the classroom, teachers can link the behaviour of David to the rules and expectations that exist within thier classroom allowing the children to link the plot to more personal experiences.
Teachers are also able to use these illustrations to promote whole-class discussions whilst reading- children could talk about their own interpretations of the illustrations as well as also guessing what might happen next to David.
David goes to school is about a kid that starts going to school and needs to learn how to do things the right way. He is not a nice kid and needs to start following the rules. The book is very relatable throughout all the grades for elementary. There is always a student/kid that is always there getting in trouble. He/She never listens to the teacher or anyone that tries to talk to them.The impact is that the troublemaker is never listens and final in the end they learn. The book also connects th
David goes to school is about a kid that starts going to school and needs to learn how to do things the right way.
There is always that one student/kid that does everything that David does throughout the book.The book is a okay book for children.
The book can give kids to different kinds ideas on what is the right thing to do.
The can end up becoming David at the beginning of the book or they can end up like David at the end of the bookThe book by having it look like the book was writing by David or even someone in school.
After his time is up at detention his teacher tells him how much, she, and his family cares about him and lets him go home for the day.
I would read this book to a young child that may be going to school for the first time so they are able to see what things would be wrong and school and what a possible consequence would be if they acted up like David did.
This book has a stronger message than "No, David" in the sense that the teacher at the end tells him she cares about him and makes him feel loved even though she was annoyed with him throughout the day.
There are students who misbehave and act out in class, but at the end of the day, the teacher is glad that they are safe, and sends them home safely.
This book could also be kept in the emergency shelf, and if the teacher realizes that there are students acting out in class and thinks that the class needs to hear this story, then that would be a great time to pull it out and teach the importance of manors and classroom behavior.
