https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/61905.Barrayar
And it's fascinating to see the development of Cordelia and Aral's characters from their initial beginnings in Shards of Honor, and their growing relationships with each other and with the people around them.The first half of Barrayar is a little on the quiet side, more deliberately paced, as Cordelia, a woman with socially liberal views, comes to terms with her new life as Lady Vorkosigan in the rigidly traditional and militaristic society on Barrayar.
"You should fear it, too."Aral is a great foil for her, a strong character in his own right, but it's Cordelia who's at the center of this story.
The only weakness I found was that the whole story is told from Cordelia's POV.
She is a great and interesting character, but the position she was in almost always forced her to take a passive role.
As I mentioned Cordelia is a great character, and so are a few secondary ones.
Aral does not get enough screen time to qualify for a main character, but he is great in the rare scenes he appears.
Even with Cordelia's limited information the story is not boring (but I would not qualify it as a space opera as everybody remains firmly on the surface of a planet here).
i love bujold's writing, too, so i am sure the other books are equally good, but come on!
this is a five-star character here, she is all good things.
i want to say i will read more of these, but i feel like cordelia broke up with me before i was ready for her to do so, and i kind of want to prostrate myself before her and beg her to come back to me.she will, won't she?someday??
Third read, update 12/6/17:The love story between Aral and Cordelia continues, but it's really a tale about Barrayaran politics and cultural horrors.
:)Besides all that, I'm REALLY enjoying the hell out of all the characters who get more screen time here and it spurs me on toward all the times I see them in big roles later and I'm loving how the whole series gels together.
The worldbuilding is very solid, the characters are really amazing and memorable, long, long after first reading them.
*** 4.75 ***A buddy read with Evgeny, because we love Sci-fi!Wow!!!
The book started with a lot of political machinations and intrigues, goes through couple of assassination attempts, some time for Cornelia to adjust to her new home, and introduction to several new characters, including the emperor, his mom, and their female bodyguard Dru, who rapidly becomes a perfect fit within the already established group of Cordelia, Vorkosigan and the two misfits soldiers who are now in their employee.
Aral's wife, Cordelia - coming from a technologically & socially much more developed planet - finds it hard to fit into to Barrayaran society and struggles to come to figure out its strange and complicated customs.
Barrayar is rigidly feudal, dominated by a military caste and its technology borders on "medieval", due to an almost complete isolation from other planets.
After the emperor's death a period of political and military unrest begins that endangers both Cordelia & Aral (as well as the child-emperor), their friends & allies and has far-reaching consequences none of them foresaw.
I continued to like both Cordelia and Aral: they are wonderfully strong characters in their different ways.
but her themes, her careful way with characterization, her undramatic recognition of the complexity, fallibility, and occasional heroism of the human species are all things that this usually impartial robot observer finds himself genuinely responding to, with uncharacteristic human warmth.characterization is clearly Bujold's major strength and this novel supplies ample opportunity for intriguingly multi-leveled characters to shine.
made so palpable by Bujold.the first half of the novel is pretty intimate in scale.
the reader gets to know Barrayar in an unhurried fashion, just like Cordelia.
and the reader continues to understand Cordelia in that same deliberate, slowly unfolding sort of a way.
“I am afraid.” So simply opens Barrayar with Cordelia words. It takes places immediately after the events of Shards of Honor and starts out with low-key family strife that sets the tone along with political developments. All the time, Lois McMaster Bujold’s character build up takes center stage. All in all, it is much more than the science-fiction tag that describes it. “My home is not a place, it is people.” The beginning might be slow though not less significant, and it is preparing for what i
“I am afraid.” So simply opens Barrayar with Cordelia words.
For those that enjoyed Shards of Honor like me, it is very satisfying to see how well Cordelia adapts to her new home, how easily she wins accomplices to her side, how furious or even murderous she is with those that hurt her loved ones.
When after an assassination attempt, Cordelia and Aral’s unborn son suffers permanent after-effects, their relationship is tested but comes out strong as he supports Cordelia’s effort to save their son.When Miles is born, I felt her words to him were meaningful and particularly poignant:
This might be an old scifi saga but it's one that has aged well in my opinion.This is the third book, chronologically, and tells of Cordelia after she married Aral Vorkosigan and came to live with him on Barrayar.
I wish you would cease trying to annoy me, Count Vordarian, I'm afraid you might succeed." Her voice fell further, almost to a whisper.
This is the saga of an underdog (to some extend) after all.What I probably like most about this is how the author manages to portray a topic from all kinds of angles.
Christmas 2010: I realised that I had got stuck in a rut. I was re-reading old favourites again and again, waiting for a few trusted authors to release new works. Something had to be done.On the spur of the moment I set myself a challenge, to read every book to have won the Locus Sci-Fi award. That’s 35 books, 6 of which I’d previously read, leaving 29 titles by 14 authors who were new to me.While working through this reading list I got married, went on my honeymoon, switched career and became
That’s 35 books, 6 of which I’d previously read, leaving 29 titles by 14 authors who were new to me.While working through this reading list I got married, went on my honeymoon, switched career and became a father.
As such these stories became imprinted on my memory as the soundtrack to the happiest period in my life (so far).Two books from Bujold’s epic sci-fi series, The Vorkosigan Saga, won the Locus Sci-Fi Award in the mid-90s.
. But I had my happy-face on when we eventually got our time together!Someone should have warned me though – this is the story of how Cordelia, pregnant with Miles, gets hit with a ‘Soltoxin’ bio-warfare grenade in the midst of a civil war.
3.5* Similar to previous book the first half is slower – mainly focussing on family melodrama and politics with a few assassination attempts to spice things up.
We also have (imported) horses and people burn wood in the fireplaces… Normally I expect more imagination and variety from my sci-fi/space opera.Secondly I couldn’t help but notice that most of their issues (Koudelka’s physical and Sergant Bothari mental state, Cordelia’s disruptor damaged leg and worries about present state, birth and child) could have been solved by hiring a doctor or two from more technologically advanced planet along with the better medical equipment.
Whilst it is slightly weaker than the previous book it truly feels 3.5* and I would happily recommend to space opera fans.
This book started out brilliantly with some understated (well as understated as assassination attempts and high risk experimental surgeries can be) family turmoil, politics and character development taking center stage.
Fortunately the conclusion was strong: exciting action and some really cool moments where we learned more about certain characters and their motivations (insights into Sergeant Bothari and how his messed up childhood led to the development of the demons that have plagued him throughout the series were especially compelling).
The chronological sequel to 'Shards of Honor' follows Cordelia Naismith as she defects from Beta, in order to make her way to Barrayar and find her former captor Aral Vorkosigan - a man she has come to love and respect.It's not incomprehensible that her Betan psychologists assume that she must be suffering from something like Stockholm syndrome, or some more insidious mental conditioning.
It's intentional on the author's part - this book involves her backtracking and filling in details about events that have already been referred to in other books.
Odlicna knjiga, mnogo bolja nego ocekivano.
Nije sve suvese crno/belo ima i sivog.Nacin pisanja je takav da me,a dosade, prica te stalno vuce napred i ne mozes se strpeti dok ne procitas sta se desilo kasnije.U svakom slucaju bravo.Inace knjiga se vodi ka SF ali sem par tehnologija koje su futuristicke bez vecih problema ova prica bi mogla biti prebacena i u nase vreme ili cak i fantazijsko.
To mi je jedino nekako malo smetalo ali to je sitna zamerka.Preporuka.E da jos jedna stvar koja mi se svidja kod Loiz-e je pisanje knjiga koje su svaka zatvorena celina, odnosno i ako niste citali prethodnu shavtice se sve sta treba, nema rupa u znanju.
Chronologically, book two in this nicely-paced, militaristic space opera / romance, set centuries in the future on planets peopled by various descendants of Earth (two planets are Barrayar and Beta).
Unknown enemies make several attempts on their lives, because her husband, a Vor lord and war hero, has been named Regent of Barrayar, running the empire till little Gregor, turning five years old, grows up.The love between Cordelia and Aral is tested several times and trust deepens.
At the end of this book, Cordelia charges Aral (the acting Regent) to "Remake this world into one Miles can survive in.
An excellent sequel to Shards of Honor, picking up right where things left off.
My favourite part comes near the end, when the intrepid Cordelia again takes charge and goes all badass on the Barrayarans.The thing I love most about her character is that she is tough when she needs to be, but inside she experiences all the doubt that any sane person would feel.
She also (mostly) thinks carefully before she speaks and acts, and works hard to be the person she wants to be.
I loved that so much and never tired of reading about her.
UPDATED 2017.04.02 with Worst Cover Gallery  -check down below and feel free to comment!_________________________________I'm reading it in order suggested by author, so after nr 1 comes nr 7, instead of nr 2.
It all pisses her off, just as it should, coming from rather liberal and tolerant Beta society (something like Amsterdam, but without water or plants).
And then she gets pregnant.
And of course she gets herself in trouble again.
The situations she builds, characters (even Bothari?
especially Bothari!), conflicts - it's all so juicy.
Can't wait for more.________________________Worst Cover Gallery
I read this for the first time sometime during the 1990s directly after Shards of Honour and as a follow-up after reading much later books in the series (Memory and onwards).Masterful introduction to the planet of Barrayar and the foundations of the Miles Vorkosigan books with a strong theme of parenting, responsibility and legacy.Cordelia is now Lady Vorkosigan and Lord Aral is the Regent of Barrayar.
The story is masterful and Cordelia has become such a strong character, both in terms of her voice and her actions.
She was great in Shards; she's awesome here.
Two of the things I loved; Cordelia goes off & completes her own adventure much to Aral's dismay & delight.
He tells her not to do that to him again.
She simply tells him to make sure she doesn't have to again.
(hide spoiler)] The amazing thing was that Bujold made it actually fit her character & situation, although I doubt even Bothari (view spoiler)[ cutting off a man's head with one swing of a sword cane.
(hide spoiler)] Oh well, it was still a great moment.On to the next in chronological order, The Warrior's Apprentice.
These characters are so wonderful that I'm regretting not buying every single book in the series when that Audible sale was happening a few days ago.
Sigh.One of the things that I appreciated about this book was the way that it dealt with pregnancy, birth, and motherhood.
It was a small part of the book but I like that it was in there at all.
It's just not something I've run across often.
There was quite a bit of danger and some heart pounding situations, and then there's Cordelia herself.
I can't wait to move forward in the series and read about Miles.
'Barrayar' is the sequel to Shards of Honor, the first novel in Lois McMaster Bujold's Vorkosigan science fiction series.
In following novels (or preceding, depending on the order the reader chooses to read the series, because 'Barrayar' is actually the seventh novel by publishing date), most of the stories follow Miles, the snarky aristocrat/military adventurer.
I recommend reading 'Shards of Honor' first, as it is about how the two noble swashbucklers Captain Cordelia Naismith and Admiral Lord Aral Vorkosigan, unintentional as their swashbuckling is, meet.
4.5/5; 4 stars; AI first read this book 7 or 8 years ago and couldn't remember all the details.
(hide spoiler)]This book has political intrigue and maneuvering but that's not what its all about.
There are several plot lines going, dealing with Cordelia's relationships with various Barrayaran women and men.
This books is crisper and better plotted than Shards of Honor, and a great follow up to that book.The audio book version that I have is read by Michael Hanson and Carol Cowan.
Most of the books I've listened to in this series are read by Grover Gardner, who I like very much, so I wasn't sure what to expect here.
4.5*“I don't want power.
I just object to idiots having power over me.”The previous two books in the saga were ok but this one finally got under my skin.
We’re back with Cordelia, witnessing her efforts in trying to adapt to her new life as Aral’s wife and to the social rules of Barrayar.
The narrative starts slowly, setting the scene, letting us get the lay of the land and its people.
Then, things turn around, the pace speeding up and throwing us into thrilling action scenes.
Cordelia does shine, being strong, capable and determined without loosing her feminity or her sense of self in this misoginist world.
4 stars
Immediately after finishing  Shards of Honour , I jumped into Barrayar with gusto. I’d say this is the payoff to Shards of Honour, but that might give you the wrong idea. Both novels are good—but this is where it gets really interesting. Cordelia has married Aral Vorkosigan and left everything she knows behind to live with him on Barrayar, capital planet of the interstellar empire of the same name. Things are complicated: she’s pregnant and has very progressive ideas about raising kids; Aral get
Cordelia has married Aral Vorkosigan and left everything she knows behind to live with him on Barrayar, capital planet of the interstellar empire of the same name.
Things are complicated: she’s pregnant and has very progressive ideas about raising kids; Aral gets named the regent of the new child emperor when the old emperor dies; and not a week goes by without some kind of assassination attempt.
Like Shards of Honour before it, however, and Cryoburn, which was my first Vorkosigan Saga experience, Barrayar demonstrates that Bujold can create compelling and fun stories.
Lois Bujold follows up Shards of Honor with a work that actually makes me feel the series could have been solely about Cordelia and her husband instead of their ill-fated son Miles.
Worse, her own new family may be the biggest threat to her damaged (but wanted) unborn child.This is a book which really gets into the meat and drink of Barrayan culture and I like how Cordelia tries to improve it without getting horrified by it (despite how horrifying it sometimes may be).
There's a lot more romance, cultural discussion, and contrasting values than I remembered when I first read it.
I started reading the Vorkosigan Saga in chronological order (rather then publication order) with the first "Miles" story, The Warrior's Apprentice.
I have always been a fan of Miles' mother, Cordelia, and she really shines in this story.
Cordelia is unwilling to "abort" her son and comes under severe pressure from Aral's father, a strict conservative, because in Barrayar's culture, people with handicaps (which is the best case for the baby even if it survives) are held in contempt and looked on as a shame to the family.
A great story for fans of the Vorkosigan Saga.
Oh Barrayar!
LMB is a suberb writer.
I knew what was going to happen in this book because I've read much of the later books about Miles and yet I was still on the edge of my seat hoping it wasn't going to happen.
Lots of back story about characters you meet later and Barrayar itself.
I loved the epilogue where we see Miles as a 5 year old.I can't stress enough the quality of the writing.
It never drags and you truly believe in the characters.
It's harder to write situations which illustrate that fact in a natural way.
The third book in my chronological series read of the Vorkosigan Saga.
All about Cordelia and Aral and complementing the story that started in Shards of Honor.
Their early days on Barrayar, about family, politics, intrigue and war.This time I went for the kindle version, as I did not enjoy the first two audiobooks very much.
Barrayar came to life quite nicely.Characterization are good, although I struggled at times to keep all these people apart, with their similar sounding family names.
The relationship between Cordelia and Aral is kept very low key.
Especially once Cordelia had enough of male stupidity and went for it.
Esta entrega es más bien un Romance Planetario que ahonda en el conflicto cultural de Cordelia, ya avecindada en Barrayar, junto con el conflicto de la maternidad.Bujold escribió que la duología inicial era una especie de relato de su propia experiencia de madre.
Pero sí es ciencia ficción que presenta ideas de la misma forma que el resto del género.
Y la voz de Bujold como madre y como mujer alza la calidad y la profundidad de su mensaje de la forma igualmente incisiva que las grandes autoras de la Ciencia Ficción.(Por algo es otra de las novelas que ganó el Hugo).
