https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/491050.The_Art_of_Deception
Não achei que fosse dos melhores, mas também não foi dos piores. Ainda me ri em algumas cenas, Kirby e o pai tinham umas saídas mesmo loucas e o cão e a gata juntavam-se à festa. ;D Do que gostei mais foi que nem Kirby nem Adam fossem aquele tipo de personagem que resiste aos sentimentos e não se quer apaixonar e quando acontece recusa, etc...
I have to say this was my least favorite Nora Roberts. It was a struggle to get through. I couldn't connect with the characters, I really didn't care what happened to them. The writing was good and I was interested in the plot.
I adore these oldies from Nora. They're just ooey gooey romance with some mystery and suspense. Sex scenes aren't graphic at all, they border on purply. I didn't give it five stars because I thought the heroine was a bit of a dolt during the climax and wrap-up. I absolutely loved her otherwise - she's a total Mary Sue mixed with the best parts of a Manic Pixie Girl. And the hero was your typical alpha-in-touch-with-his-emotions, as usual with Nora Roberts' early work.It's pure candy and I love it. I also understand if it's totally not your thing.
Cute story. It had some mystery to it.
I got this book as part of the Whispered Promises compilation.The gist: Kirby’s father is a famous painter.
Kirby and Adam fall in love.
The whole plot with the Rembrandt is unraveled.
This one was alright, but it’s definitely not my favorite Nora book.
BUT, it is one of her earlier books and she has definitely gotten A LOT better the more she’s written!
But the whole reasoning and stuff for the Rembrandt plot seemed just weird and weak for me.If you’ve never read one of Nora’s books, I wouldn’t recommend starting with this one, or even this compilation.
Totally thought this book was new until the characters started smoking cigarettes and I realized it was a reprint. Enjoyed it well enough.
Art, artists, creativity and deceptionAnother winner from Nora Roberts. With her usual skill, Nora Roberts has given us a mystery that I didn’t solve until she showed us the solution. We have a cast of talented and eccentric artists, a castle without a moat, but with a butler and maid who run the place. Most of all she has given us wonderful descriptions of works of art and process of creating them.After just a few pages, I was caught up in the people and place and couldn’t put it down.
I was disappointed by my last two books so I decided to return to an old favorite who I knew would give me a quick, romantic, easy read and I wasn’t disappointed.
I’m a pretty big fan of Nora Roberts because I think she does romance without being trashy and every girl could use more romance in her life (trashy has its place as well.) Side note: two of my favorite romance series are Roberts’ Bride Quartet and the Inn Boonsboro trilogy.
The latter may be at the top of my list of favorite characters.
Overall, this book was a very entertaining, quick read.
Author: Nora RobertsFirst published: 1986Length: 328 pagesSetting: Contemporary.
Rural New York.Sex: Hand-wavy 80’s sex.Hero: Painter / Investigator.Heroine: Sculptor.Nora Roberts i a very, very competent author.
First published in 1986, The Art of Deception is engaging, funny, sexy, with just enough suspense.
It’s an easy read.
And it’s probably the sort of book Roberts can whip up in her sleep.Overall, I liked it.
There is nothing remarkable about it.Fun-loving but independent Heroine meets respectful, strong and dark hero with secrets.
An airplane read.
You can pick it up and be engaged, but not be irritated when interrupted.References:Author: http://www.noraroberts.com(ISBN 978-0-263-87677-2)-CR-
Adam Haines was an artist visiting the Fairchild mansion to do some undercover digging, and that was a problem for a man who preferred to be straightforward.
An even bigger problem was Kirby Fairchild, daughter of the world-famous painter he'd been sent to investigate.
Is this relationship able to develop in spite of their differences.
Or will he be able to do his job then walk away.
Its one of those books where you know how its gonna end, yet it sneaks up and bites you on the butt.
Somany branches in this book, yet well written and brought together.
Just Nora RobertsA bit of Nora Roberts every week or two is just awesome. The grass is greener the sky is bluer the days are nicer and the nights are restful. It doesn't matter which of her books you read or the trilogies you get lost in it is a wonderful and spellbinding trip. I am a male. 85 years old with at least 50 of Nora's books on my kindle and I consider her one of the very best writers and each and every one of her books a five star read thank you
I enjoyed this one. The love story was pretty conventional and it bugged me that, with all the secrecy around Adam's true reason for being there, the actual secret turned out to be the least interesting part of the book, but I liked it.I find I seem to enjoy Roberts' criminals with a heart of gold a lot, and the banter and odd sort of dramatic gameplaying of the father/daughter duo was fairly enjoyable although I might find it exhausting in real life.
Este livro provocou em mim reacções ambíguas. Se por um lado gostei do Adam, por outro achei a Kirby e o pai meio loucos. Já para não falar do cão e do gato e da sua relação estranhíssima... Não é mesmo dos melhores livros de Nora Roberts.
Very good as alwaysOnce again Nora write a story like no other story she has done before. It a great cast of characters
This book captured me! I love the character of Kirby Fairchild! She's strong and crazy but also vulnerable and loving! A great combination!
I found it to be a quick read and I'm glad I picked it up as an ereader deal the other day."The Art of Deception" focuses on not just art theft, but art forgery, family secrets, and betrayals.
The bulk of the story is set in the Fairchild house, home to two distinguished artists, a father and daughter.
There's sparks almost immediately between Adam and Kirby, and their fast-paced love story is entertaining and fun to read.
As the title indicates, there's deception as well as intrigue, eccentric side characters, an old house with secret passageways, and a hot romance.
Another disappointing book.
I was actually impressed I was able to force myself to finish this one.
Then again, I just about skimmed through every page focusing on the conversations.
In short, Adam Haines is helping investigate Fairchild.
Fairchild has been stealing and forging paintings under his name.
Little did he know, he would fall in love with the daughter Kirby.
I did enjoy Kirby's dialogue with the dog and cat.
It turned out, Kirby's longtime friend despised her.
Melly only became friends with Kirby to use her to get to the Rembrandt to sell, so her and Stuart could become wealthy.
Es algo entre extraño y genial.
Pero resulta que Adam Haines no era lo que ellos estaban esperando, aunque sí es un pintor talentoso, atrapa por completo a Kirby desde el inicio.
Pero entre ellos hay una red de mentiras y secretos que los mantiene separados.¿Qué pasa?
Hay cosas que me encantan, como el hecho de que Kirby sea tan sincera y pasional.
Como cuando le dice: ¿tienes intenciones de acostarte conmigo?
PEROOOO, luego tenemos lo extraño, el hecho de que hable con su gato, por un momento pensé que habían metido temas sobrenaturales allí.
Pero en fin, ha sido entretenido.
I really enjoyed this book, like most of Ms. Robert's books.
This book lacked a little something or perhaps it was the wrong time for me to be reading it, it just wasn't the heart-stopping love affair I usually experience with her books.
Don't get me wrong, the book was fun and I chuckled several times, but it just wasn't very deep....
well it's a romance so how deep can it be?
But usually they are deeper, at least for me.
Some were a total shock to me, which was great fun!
LOLAll in all it's a wonderfully fun read, just not a 5-star one.
Interessante e estranhoInteressante, porque prendeu a minha atenção até ao final. Como surpresa, intriga, paixão e suspense, o final chegou. Por outro lado, alguns elementos como os animais e empregados que são pintados como estranhíssimos, não têm qualquer papel relevante na história. Assim como a excentricidade e gosto pelo desafio de Kirby e seu pai desaparecem num final angélico.
The Art of DeceptionThe love story of Adam and Kirby. Adam is an artist and a undercover cop. He is assist to find out if Kirby's father is an act forger. Kirby is a sculptress,who know and sometime help her father with his hobby is to forger art work. How someone is trying to kill Kirby. Can Adam save her and find out about her father or will Kirby win him and save her father. OK story
Great Characters, Unpredictable I was very impressed with the characters personalities, witt and relationships. I didn’t see the twist coming which is typically unheard of. I am a series/trilogy reader and often will not spend time on a stand alone novel. I am thrilled that I took the time to read this one.
Great, just like i expected! How cppever disappppppp to pick up a book kppppppppppppll be good. I have never been disappointed by this writer!How could it be any less! This author has never disappointed. It's greatl to pick up a book by wonderful writer and know one will experience a great read!
The Art of DeceptionAs always Nora Roberts comes through with a well written novel. The plot was moving and kept you wanting to read on. I never guessed who wanted to harm Kirby. Loved the eccentric papa (Philip) and Harriet. Card was a kick. I would recommend for a good run read.
An intriguing love storyAbsolutely enchanting and spell binding. I didn't want the story to end. I can't wait to start reading her other books. l have them lined up to read. I know l will enjoy them
Eh. Not my favorite. Fairchild was fun and quirky and Kirby was a good foil for him. I don’t know why Adam was supposedly at their house for 4 weeks. I get the side job, but not what the fam was told.
I really liked this one. I love when I fall in love with the main characters, equally. And although Adam should have come clean about his “deception” earlier, I feel like it all worked out in the end, and nothing felt forced or out of place.
I learned much about art , love, deceit and forgiveness! As I raced to finish the , I had no clue on how it would end. FACINATING!I recommend this book to anyone who loves art and how art is appraised by the heart and not just the eyes!
This is the second Nora Roberts I have read recently that I thought had to be from the 70s or early 80s, not with a 2000 publication date. Everybody smokes. No cell phones. Although the heroine is a strong female, the author worked too hard to make the characters quirky.
Girinho dentro do estilo a que se propõe, achei a protagonista Kirby muito mandada para a frente para a época e achei todo o romance com o Adam muito rápido, num flash amavam-se loucamente...já para não falar do cão e da gata completamente estranhos bem como o pai de Kirby...
