https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6597651-the-windup-girl
Each summer since I pick up one or two science fiction/fantasy books come July, drifting toward William Gibson, Neil Gaiman, Stephenson, etc.
A few weeks back I heard someone compare Bacigalupi to Gibson and noticed the novel face-forward displayed at Barnes and Noble.
The middle third is probably the best, really, as I felt like the book picked up around page 100 but lost steam around page 325.
He’s smart and talented, but were this book and me at a party, I would politely excuse myself before the novel started telling me a long story about what he heard on NPR that day or something.
“We rest in the hands of a fickle god. He plays on our behalf only for entertainment, and he will close his eyes and sleep if we fail to engage his intellect.” In Paolo Bacigalupi's imagined future, Bangkok has become a simmering stew pot of paranoia, brutality, despair, and betrayal. Genetic manipulation has brought the world to the brink of extinction. With great advancements also came tragic mistakes. Blister rust, Cibiscosis, the Genehack weevil brought death and famine. The very companies t
Genetic manipulation has brought the world to the brink of extinction.
This provides the building blocks of future plant stock that can be manipulated to survive the onslaught of mega-diseases.
I have personal high hopes that algae will provide some answers for our own future energy needs.
They have a split in philosophy, Environmental wanting to get away from generipping and the outside influences of farangs like Anderson.
The department of trade wanting to embrace the outside world, letting in more goods and giving their people more avenues of generating revenue.
I will end the review with a scene of Anderson in the marketplace."Ngaw.
Now, after reading The Windup Girl, I'm tempted to take a closer look at the food labels myself.Paolo Bacigalupi's The Windup Girl is a bleak and depressing story set in the future run by calorie monopolies, where genetically modified products and manufactured foodborne plagues have wiped out the foodchains, wars are waged for precious seeds, and quarantines for food-borne diseases are a must.
In Bacigalupi's novel, the genetically modified 'windups' are viewed as something less than human, an abomination, a soulless property - because they are test-tube created, engineered, unnatural.
She knocked at the door but no one answered, so being a rather bold and sassy little girl, she walked right in.At the table in the kitchen, there were three science fiction novels.
So, she began to read the second novel which was called The Three Stigmata of Palmer Eldrich by Philip K Dick.
So, Goldilocks read the last book, which was called  Tiger!
Goldilocks fell asleep.As she was sleeping, the authors came home."Someone's been reading my book and they only gave it two stars!” growled Paolo.
Finally,"Someone's been sleeping in my bed and she's still there!" exclaimed baby Alfred.Just then, Goldilocks woke up and saw the three authors.
Assuming Tan Hock Seng was 70 in 2010, that would mean he was born in 1940.Malaysia came into being in 1957 when we achieved independence from the British.
Tan Hock Seng would have been using "Malaysia" for YEARS after independence.
I felt then (and still feel now) that Bacigalupi appropriated my country's history and culture disrespectfully, and worse, irresponsibly, and that he was stirring up a pot that I do NOT think needs to be stirred up.
The novel is full of referenced to “gene ripping” and DNA experimentation and also a great deal of examples of how such experimentation can go terribly wrong as some new invasive species have taken over as readily as kudzu on a roadside hill in Alabama.Set in “post-contraction” Thailand (meaning that the world’s expansion economy has collapsed and regions are more isolated and poverty stricken) the novel sets up a long foundation that examines and explores life after two centuries of global warming where sterile gene ripped agriculture has created a wasteland, calories have become currency and the world is always only one step ahead of the next mutation of plague and crop blighting infestation.
The titular windup girl (an artificial human) seeks her freedom from constant abuse, an old Chinese immigrant tries to restore his fortune, a Environment Ministry enforcer tries to protect his beloved city against all odds, and a western factory owner is on a secret mission to find Thailand's most precious property, seeds that can withstand the diseases unleashed by scientists.Besides being a cautionary tale of possibly impending ecological catastrophe the book is not short on human drama.
A lot of readers are likely to dismiss the ghosts in The Windup Girl as imaginary, especially of (view spoiler)[Jaidee (hide spoiler)].
"God is great, beer is good, people are crazy." "Whiskey for my men, beer for my horses." I spent evenings at the kitchen table, trying to read while my wife's parents watched FOX News nearby, and I noticed how the top story on every program was the President's worse and worse poll numbers.
Like all my favorite SF and fantasy writers, Bacigalupi's characters are neither good nor bad: they linger somewhere in between, and are all surprisingly fleshed out for such a brief book.
So, if you like science fiction at all, I'll just say: read this and love it.
"She can barely remember the last time she slept without pain or fear, and she is groggy with it. The rooms are dim, lit only by the glow of the street's gaslights flickering alive like fireflies." As I begin my review, I would like to 'fess up and state that dystopian novels really aren't my thing. Prior to reading this, I felt dystopian to be a by-word for introspective, poorly-written tosh.I even swore an oath that I would rather tip Tabasco onto my eyeballs than ever read anything resemblin
She desires freedom but alas, her marionette gait and lack of bodily climate control make it almost impossible for her to go anywhere without attracting attention.Her only hope (and a wafer-slim one at that) appears in the form of Anderson Lake, a blue-eyed, body-scarred American whose clandestine mission is to find blight-resistant crops in a world where you can't buy a banana or a rambutan, neither for love nor money.Call me a romantic fool but the cliché of an artificial female yearning to be human, tugs at my heartstrings every time, and I was fully behind Emiko, wanting only the very best for her.The most exciting scenes in the book (view spoiler)[are the ones in which Emiko makes various bids to escape, hoping to get to encampments in the far north where windups live free from human bondage.
Everything from eco-terrorist types trying to keep their country clean and uncorrupted, to "Calorie men" from Monsanto like agri-mega-corporations that are both making the next awesome "insert food staple"-strain that will last a couple of generations ahead of whatever blight it is that's killing the food and people, to a battered and betrayed "new person" who's been genetically engineered by scientists.I absolutely adore Bacigalupi's short stories, so I was really looking forward to this book.
The Windup Girl belongs to a very specific category of novels that make my heart ache as if it were being ripped open from the inside; said category being, great-concept-poor-excecution.
At page 100 (around 25% into the book) I still had to figure out what all the fuss was about.
I think the book failed to get my attention because it failed to provide a good overview of what the story was about and of the general features of the world it was set in.
I felt that the author gave a lot of very particular details, but since I had but a blurred and insufficient wider picture, the specifics were just useless.
With food limited and muscle power at a premium, calories are the new currency.A ‘calorie man’ named Anderson Lake is under cover from one of the corporations trying to find untainted foodstuffs to use as the basis for further modifications, and he thinks he’s got a line on a rogue geneticist and Thailand’s seed bank.
Anderson’s ambition to get his hands on Thailand’s seed bank conflicts with several other characters such as a Thai environment official desperately trying to keep corruption from allowing his country to be overwhelmed like the rest of the world and an exiled Chinese factory foreman who wants to rebuild his shipping business by stealing plans for a new type of spring from the factory that Anderson runs as a cover.Bacigalupi did some serious world building in this book.
Don’t stress out if you can’t understand half the words, or the vague references to “the incident” or “the situation in Finland.” All will come clear…trust me.This story is set in a futuristic Thailand, which is one of the last countries “surviving”, after several plagues have wiped out the majority of human and plant life* and the sea levels have risen to cover most cities.
I’ve definitely come across novels like that, where I just didn’t care enough about the characters because there wasn’t a chance to become attached to any of them (Guy Gavriel Kay’s Under Heaven comes to mind).
There really wasn’t one single character in this book, no matter how minor, that I didn’t end up caring deeply about.
In terms of the ubiquitous "world building", this is some of the best out there, both in newness and familiarity.While the characters themselves depend heavily on the culture around them for engagement, it is Bacigalupi's choices of personas that shine through the rather stock third-person POV.
Lesbianism is touched on as a normal aspect of living in a diverse world (I had to reread the first instance of its appearance to make sure of what I was seeing), and while none of the characters are supremely well crafted, their common humanity and will to do terrible things to survive is brought to the forefront.
The most recent addition to my list of "All Time Favorite" novels.
This is Science fiction "noir" AT ITS BEST.
Prime examples for me (all of which are also on my "all time favorite" list) would be The Blade Itself by Joe Abercrombie (along with both sequels); Perdido Street Station by China Mieville; Snow Crash by Neal Stephenson; Altered Carbon and the rest of Takeshi Kovacs novels by Richard K.
Winner: Nebula Award for Best Novel (2010)
Bacigalupi's version of the future where natural resources are exhausted and the world is enslaved by genehacking "calorie men," who have total control of food and energy supply and who are the source of multiple plagues, is still horrifying, but no longer surprising.
The nature of humanity and the consequences of genetic manipulations have already been explored by some fine writers in the past - by Kazuo Ishiguro in Never Let Me Go and by Margaret Atwood in Oryx and Crake and The Year of the Flood, but Bacigalupi still managed to bring something new to the table.For that alone The Windup Girl should be read.
The setting is a future, not-quite-dystopian Earth where most of the world's population is fed by sterile wheat, soy and rice varieties created by calorie companies: agricultural outfits whose monopoly stems from the fact that, at some time in the past, human meddling with plants and animals - what the book called generipping - lead to the evolution of new and deadly plagues that wiped out an incredibly high number of original plant (and, as a direct result, animal) species.
Nearly all of the characters in the book are reprehensible people, who do unforgivable things.
(I have to note here that any 'reviewer' who refers to Emiko as a "robot" did not actually read the book.) In creating her, and depicting what happens to her, he harshly criticizes some very real aspects of certain cultures which fully warrant that criticism, and does so fairly and accurately.
(Not one culture or group in this book gets a pass, or is portrayed as 'good' - just about everyone has somehow been complicit in bringing the world to where it is.) But Emiko also exists not just as a political statement but as a fully realized, sympathetic character.
In many ways, it reminded me of the masterful “The Sheep Look Up” (https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...), which also tackled the idea of ecological apocalypse and its consequences – albeit in a very different setting.The character of Emiko is fascinating because she is a strange form of AI - or post-human creature, really - who feels, wants and thinks, but her engineering also limits her.
Gibbons, the geneticist encountered in the second half of the book talks about windups as an upgrade on human beings since they are impervious to the diseases that have killed so many, are often stronger and better suited to live in this new world that has been so devastated by plagues and crop failures.
I don't know if I've ever read a book quite like The Windup Girl.
Normally, I try to situate a book I've just read in relation to other books, no matter how tenuous and personal the connections may be (I can't explain why I always think of Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas as a more interesting version of On the Road, for instance.)But this, I'm at a loss.
It so rarely happens, but The Windup Girl stands alone in my mindNote: The rest of this review has been withdrawn due to the recent changes in Goodreads policy and enforcement.
You can read why I came to this decision here.
In the meantime, you can read the entire review at Smorgasbook
Two of the stories in the collection are set in the same world as The Windup Girl and both resonated deeply with me.
It is set in Thailand which has survived the reordering of the world in its own way but maintains what seems to be a very real flavour of its current culture.
I mention this in particular because of the windup girl, also called the New People, who are said to have no soul.
Questions of souls have always interested me so I found this platform for thought on the topic highly engaging.
Seriously though it has been such a long time since I stumbled across a book I love this much and to top it all off it’s set in a place I visited a lot on holiday while growing up: Bangkok!But this wasn’t the Bangkok we all know, it was one that is a result of the aftermath of global warming and what humans are doing to the planet.
I read this book while on holiday in Thailand so I got a deeper experience of the many culture points in the plot as well as (believe it or not) some nostalgia for my childhood days when we used to stay a month in Thailand every year at Christmas.
Following the resounding success of my Locus Quest, I faced a dilemma: which reading list to follow it up with? Variety is the spice of life, so I’ve decided to diversify and pursue six different lists simultaneously. This book falls into my HUGO WINNERS list.This is the reading list that follows the old adage, "if it ain't broke, don't fix it". I loved reading the Locus Sci-Fi Award winners so I'm going to crack on with the Hugo winners next (but only the post-1980 winners, I'll follow up with
I loved reading the Locus Sci-Fi Award winners so I'm going to crack on with the Hugo winners next (but only the post-1980 winners, I'll follow up with pre-1980 another time).I had mixed feelings before I read this book.
Whenever I describe a book to someone who reads a lot, I try to say "it's a bit like..." But this one is tricky!
. My first big award-winners reading list was the Locus Sci-Fi winners - and they gave it to 
I really had no idea what this book was actually going to be about when I started it, and even if I had read the description or reviews, I don't think it would have helped much.
I just finished this book, after being immersed for a full week in this world, a plausible future Earth, and I'm thinking that I'll be pondering the lessons and themes in this one for a while yet.
That was the voice of Gi Bu Sen, a white bio-engineer genius, who Davis made sound a teeeeensy bit too much like Sheldon from Big Bang Theory.
Enjoyable. Misleading title; I kept waiting for the story to focus more on the wind-up girl. Perhaps it should have been called The Company Man. I didn't put down my thoughts while reading, so to do it justice, back it goes on the TBR shelf.Update to self: I did finish, but wasn't up to the task of reviewing. Complicated and uncomfortable.
I decided to read The Windup Girl first, his multiple-award winning debut that shot him to stardom, and figured too that it was the perfect choice to review for Backlist Burndown.The book takes place in 23rd century Thailand in a world ravaged by increasing temperatures and rising sea levels.
The capital city of Bangkok only survives due to technology, and would be underwater if not for the levees that hold back the flood.The story features multiple POVs. Major characters include Anderson Lake, a Calorie Man for the megacorp AgriGen, a sort of economic hitman sent to work undercover at a factory in Thailand.
Brilliant vision of a possible future scenario when global warming has reaped havoc and food has to be genetically produced.
The detail of the world the author creates is fantastic as is his evocation of Thai culture.
Unfortunately for me the story itself didn’t quite live up to the brilliance of its setting.
I found the details were more compelling than the plot and the characters.
It’s a very cinematic novel in many respects.
The bigger picture tends to swamp the individual lives of the characters.
There’s also a twist with one character which I never bought into.
En fin, que una vez metido en faena, es difícil separarse del libro y todo va cuesta abajo.Pero, ¿qué nos encontramos en ’La chica metálica’?
Emiko es un neoser, una chica metálica, abandonada en Tailandia por sus amos japoneses, que trabaja en un local sometida a continuas humillaciones, y que es el personaje que más me ha gustado.Bacigalupi se desenvuelve con soltura en una historia ajustada, pese a sus algo más de 500 páginas.
Bacigalupi presenta una historia sombría y pesimista, que te hace reflexionar, sin por ello renunciar a la aventura.
I really wanted to like the book.
Unfortunately, the book was full of gratuitous foul language and then a couple chapters in there is a horrible, pornographic rape scene.
I didn't need or want to read any more once it became clear that this was going to be the way things were done.
It was also clear almost immediately that this was a story of a world without any hope.Ray Bradbury didn't need any of that crap to create a powerful vision of mankind's future.
And he understood that mankind always has the ability to rise above even their darkest hour.
The Windup Girl is a book that it at times disturbing, yet still an incredible, enchanting and intense story about a frightening future world where corporations control everything and where escape is nearly impossible.
