https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/454885.Better_than_Beauty
Valentine and Thompson write this book knowing full well their readers probably already know etiquette.
They talk about the importance of gratitude (you may not have to write a thank-you-note, but at least say thank you to your hostess), drinking (it's alright to have a cocktail, but for God's sake know your limits), self awareness (your mirror truly is your best friend), and money (don't live beyond your means and know how to balance an account book).
As I said, this is not a rule book, but it is a book on how to put your best foot forward and I think it's a great little read.
This book is fantastic! So funny (because it was written in 1938) BUT still surprisingly relevant to 2012 in many ways. My fav quote so far: "Everyone prefers a few extra pounds to a shrewish disposition." This was a Kindle deal ($1.99 I think) and it's a hoot! It's like reading advice from a spunky grandmother (in fact, I can actually imagine my own grandmother saying some of these things...) Love it!
As a staunch feminist, I expected to find this vintage self help book ridiculous and hilarious, because I thought it would be full of ideas about how to "catch a man" and develop my "womanly charms." I was pleasantly surprised to find that although the description makes it sound like the Cosmopolitan of the thirties, this book is full of relevant and interesting advice for every woman.
I like that the two authors of this book sound remarkably advanced in their beliefs and values; they have progressive ideas about race and gender, and their witticisms liven up the pages of this short, engaging book.
Didn't realise this book to be as dated as it is. Reads like a primer for an aspiring Martha-Stewart wannabe in a nice English countryside, as told by a well-meaning grandmotherly type, before the days of magazines and mooks.
Way more old fashioned than I was expecting. However, there are still some things to be gained from parts of the book. Would love to read a more modern etiquette book.
"While beauty makes a first impression, charm lasts a lifetime." A timeless little book that gently guides the reader through dress, conversation, manners, avoiding awkward situations and so much more. I am so glad Chronicle books reprinted this 1938 masterpiece. It's a little dated but worth a read.
Another one of those books written donkeys-ages ago that still is as fresh as a breath of spring. "Charm" is a characteristic not often thought of today, being passed over for her more glamourous cousins "sexy", and "hip". Oh yes, personal habits and dress are covered here as well, but this book is the full charm school course. Carriage included!
And no matter how much I practice lowering myself gracefully into my chair while in public, at the end of the day, I’m still going to plop down on my couch in sweatpants.The book’s second section, while still providing a dose of “Duh” advice, thoughtfully reminds its modern readers of easily forgotten manners.
If not read with this in mind, Part One of this book "What You Do To Yourself" actually seems shocking.
Read the entire book as a funny bit of history, or jump to "Part Two: What You Do to Others".
This second section seems to have weathered the ages a bit better and serves as a good course / reminder on conversation, and social niceties beyond etiquette.
I found myself appreciating just how funny the examples are (though really, I've found myself in a similar boat).
I'm surprised that although it was first published in 1938, the information in the book is quite applicable to
Some interesting reflections and reminders about generally pleasant behaviour, a quick and enjoyable light read.
Amusing. First published in 1938. It gives insight into the mind of the American female WASP.
Half of the book is devoted to a charming appearance...
I think that if you are "fastidious" in your appearance as a woman, then only read the second half of the book.
While the book concerns a subject that is more or less superficial, it is filled with a sort of wisdom about living peaceably with yourself and others which makes it decidedly important.I offer summary of the philosophy put forth in this guide: Charm is the result of genuinely unself-conscious kindness and respect towards yourself and others.
Forget all the old maxims about not judging a book by its cover, and remember that first impressions MUST be surface impressions.
It had some tips on things like making good conversation (which I badly need), good skin care and makeup habits, choosing a well curated wardrobe even on a tight budget, and weight maintenance (on which I can also use help).
I need someone to just say it.) It's true that some of the advice is a bit outdated, like when the author urges her readers to wash their underwear at least every other day, but she qualifies her comments by saying, "as long as your supply of water is unlimited." I imagine that in the 1930's, lots of people didn't have the water resources we have now, so they would have worn their clothes more before washing them.
The only thing that bugged me were the descriptions of weight loss exercises, which I couldn't make heads or tails of.
I love reading etiquette advice, especially from decades ago.
I loved it for two reasons: 1) The advice is still good for modern day.
I expected the book to be dated and give me a laugh.
Unexpectedly, I found myself saying "good point" when I was reading it.
For example, this book's advice about hair - ask yourself does your hair look clean?
and, does it look like your hair would be nice to touch?
And from the 1930s where the standards were so much more strict than today.2) The advice that is clearly dated is very funny.
This was a very, very nice book.
Many people dismiss it as being dated, but in doing so they ignore the fact that it is based on very timeless principles.
It reminds me a bit of How to Win Friends and Influence people, with more emphasis on appearance and less on persuasion, and although it isn't a self-help book to end all self-help books, I definitely recommend it.
It is hardly dated at all!
A few things in the first section are not relevant (who knows, they might be in a couple years) but the part about how to deal with people is full of tips that a whole lot of people would be quite wise to put into practice.
I got this book for free, and started to give it a read.
Let me remind you of the title name:BETTER than beauty, and guide to charm.With that being said, the first 3/4 of the book was about beauty and how to take care of your body on the outside.
I have to admit that more than once I caught myself checking the title to make sure I knew what I was reading.
There wasn't any charm to the book.
But I gave it a TWO star to encourage any lady that feels like she's stuck, or needs a little boost of advice regarding making yourself beautiful.
An adorable classic, this quick read gives you timeless tips for charm and beauty with an interesting point of view.
Because this book was origanally published in the 1930s, the reader quickly finds that the most useful ideas about skin care and how to be a lady are so basic they are often overlooked.
This book was a fun read for me, I enjoyed finding out about being a lady while getting a lesson in what life was like for a woman in the 30's.
I also liked that I could read it from cover to cover in one night, like a refresher course on everything your mother taught you about being a girl.
I intended to read this book as more of a novelty than anything. Since it was written in the '30's I anticipated it would be full of antiquated advice that would make me chuckle and be glad I lived in the modern world. I was very surprised how relevant a lot of the advice was. From discussing good common sense manners when meeting new people, to dealing with nights where you drank too much a lot of the big ideas from this book are applicable to the 21st century woman. I would recommend for a light fun read.
This book actually had good advice, even though it was written so long ago. Half of the book is devoted to exterior charm; not just beauty but also hygiene, and everything that goes into a first impression. The second half dives into what is and isn't charm, and tips to become charming. Though people don't typically have tea parties anymore, there are many pieces of advice useful for any woman looking to add more charm to her life.
I thought I'd pick this book up and laugh at the ways time and societal mores have changed. A glimpse into a time that once was. Instead I was pleasantly surprised to find a book of etiquette that still holds fairly true today. While I disagree here and there with bits in the book, overall I enjoyed what it had to say and how it said it.
This book was a cute blunt way to help me be a better me on how to be more womenly. I'm pretty tom boyish, and i'm starting to get sick of it, since im always comparing myself with my other girlfriends and how beautiful they carry themselves and i'm like a ogre on the side. I'm trying to better myself and love myself, this book is a great guideline.
This book was first published in 1938 and I thought it was a great book. While some of the ideas are definitely "outdated" the majority of the book has application to how we live our lives today. Everyone should read this for some good sound advice on how to act properly and to be "more charming"!
I like reading books about manners and etiquette from different decades. Some of the information is outdated, but the core principles of charm are beholden to no time period. This book was surprisingly modern and much of the information is repeated monthly in modern magazines aimed at women. A lot of the information is common sense, but a good reminder never hurt anyone.
This book was pointless. If you did not grow-up in a home that provided you with the basic manners required to interact with other human beings in a manner that shows that you respect them, then this book will be helpful if you have the desire to acquire such skills. In all other cases it is unnecessary, trite, and useless.
This book was okay. It had some golden moments that were useful, but overall I found the information very dated. If you are looking for a guide about the 1930s then pick it up....otherwise leave it alone.
Adorable and charming etiquette handbook written in 1938. Less about "charm" in the high-handed Lady of the Manor sense and more about the prewar American sense: no-nonsense, frugal, fastidious tidiness and modest manners.
I didn't learn much that I didn't already know, but it was an enjoyable and very quick read. They tried to update it for the 21st Century but it didn't really work that well (how to choose a hat? Seriously?).
It's strange that this charm guide (published on 1938) was on my Kindle; stranger still is the fact that I read it. I guess it was sort of interesting to see what women were thinking at that time. I also found the advice to change my underwear " at least every second day" to be very helpful.
This is a guide to charm written in the late 1930's. It makes me happy. The guide is simple and funny. Surprisingly, the guidelines the authors put forward in the book are still appropriate today. The illustrations are fabulous and very funny. Read it if you can get a copy of it.
