https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2117763.The_Black_Camel
This was not my kind of book, at all. It was probably not terrible, and perhaps even well done, for the "who done it" mystery genre. But I am not a fan of those and, indeed, did not particularly enjoy this - so am declining to rate it.
Her fans loved beautiful movie star Shelah Fane, although her career seemed to be waning. But many people had motives to murder her, and one of them seems to be in Hawaii with her. There's her director, her co-star, her charming young secretary, her one-time rival, her psychic advisor--and they're all on hand when Shelah is killed. Yet somehow the discussions all circle back to the death of a handsome actor in Hollywood several years before. Chan learns that Shelah claimed to know who his murderer was--which would be a sure-fire motive if the murderer is among the party.
Reread. A fav.
In the meantime, Detective Inspector Charlie Chan has out grown any sense of inferiority and is not taking guff.One of my most important rules for any "Who Done it", is that the detective cannot solve the crime with secret information.
The playing field may contain misdirection, red hearings, clutter and plot twists, but the every part of the final solution must be shared evenly with the reader.The Black Camel of Death kneels before impetuous actress Shelah Fane on a languid, lush Hawaiian night near the beautiful beaches that grace the shores alongside romantic Waikiki.
Flush with success from solving two highly complicated whodunnits in California, Charlie Chan is back in Hawaii; back to his home on Punchbowl Hill; back to his newest infant son and 10 other children.
Biggers again delivers an intriguing whodunnit with enough ambigious suspects and clues to make Charlie work extra hard to bring it to a successful conclusion.I am really enjoying this series; so much so that I have personally petitioned my local library to purchase the last 2 books so that it will have the complete Chan canon.
"Truth is rare fruit in garden of murder." This quotation applies particularly well to this book. There are enough red herrings here to have a fish fry. Charlie is especially engaging in this book; plus we get to meet some of his very Americanized children. A delightfully misleading and mysterious story.
Chan is back in Hawaii and is called to solve the murder of a fading Hollywood star. A murder in the past may or may not have something to do with it. Interesting characters with a lot of bantering back and forth.
Biggers has brought Charlie Chan into full maturity in The Black Camel.
This Charlie Chan is even closer to the hard-boiled detective than in the last book, Behind That Curtain.The same goes for the setting.
The passage that describes the trip into this place, in fact, is told in hard-boiled prose, while Charlie seems tougher and the locales resembles something from a film noir movie.This is a superior piece of detective fiction.
Now, for book number five.*A note on the 1931 film version.
Of the first five Charlie Chan films, only The Black Camel remains.
#4 in the Honolulu detective Charlie Chan mystery series set in Honolulu. Shelah Fane, an actress known and loved throughout the world, comes to Honolulu from Tahiti to finish shooting scenes for her latest movie. On her first night in Honolulu, she is stabbed to death bringing Charlie Chan in to investigate the murder. He finds that the murder is some how connected to a murky Hollywood urder 3 years ago and there are many suspects.
This book kept my interest from start to finish. The characters were fully developed and the there were enough potential murderers to keep the reader guessing. Well paced and a satisfying conclusion
Typical Charlie Chan. An entertaining and interesting murder mystery puzzle to solve in a well-described tropical setting, with subtle hints about the prejudice Chinese faced in historical USA.
Charlie is back in Honolulu in this one (4th of the series) ~ another well-written mystery.
In Honolulu an Hollywood actress is murdered on a film's beach location placing Charlie Chan on one of most difficult cases.
A bit racists considering today's times but highly entertaining!
For reasons unknown, Bantam chose to insert a new novel (Charlie Chan Returns, penned by "Dennis Lynds" in 1974) into the series and call it #4.
Take as one example, this come-back (on page 53 of the above edition if you are interested), when the butler inadvertently refers to the Chinese as a "heathen race": "A heathen race," Chan replied gravely, "that was busy inventing the art of printing at the moment when gentlemen in Great Britain were still beating one another over the head with spiked clubs.
Charlie Chan mystery. This one set in Honolulu, Charlie's home town, so we get to meet his family and see how he interacts with them at home. Fun.
There are lots of possible culprits, including the man who wanted to marry the actress, her psychic advisor (whom she had just called to Hawaii to help her decide to accept the marriage proposal), some of her film buddies, a local tycoon married to a former Hollywood actress friend, the very proper British butler, and so forth.
The psychic advisor, in particular, appears to be trying to help Chan all the while also trying to derail Chan's investigation.
I don't know if I'm just getting used to Charlie, or if things really have changed by the fourth book.
THE BLACK CAMEL by Earl Derr Biggers'Death is the black camel that kneels unbidden at every gate.' This is the quote used by Charlie Chan minutes after he is called to investigate the murder of Shelah Fane a Hollywood actress who has just arrived in the Hawaiian Islands to wrap up a movie that had been begun in Tahiti.
Shelah was quite famous for her work and appearance but these were on the cusp of a downhill slope, something that actresses in the movie business always feared when the little lines on the face became more obvious.This is a very high profile case for Inspector Chan of the Honolulu police and he proceeds warily among many possible suspects.
The characters are much more two-dimensional, Charlie's witticisms are more on the sarcastic side, and some plot points are conveniently glossed over until they are needed to bring the story to a conclusion.The mystery is a strong one, reminding readers of the famous William Desmond Taylor murder case in February of 1922 that was never solved.
It is difficult to feel an affinity for any of the characters, though, as most are so broadly drawn.Two interesting points arose from the Chan character in this one.
There is an interesting parallel about celebrity that is never really explored.
Biggers, Earl Derr.
Film stars, the director, and the rest of a film crew arrive in Hawaii for a lay-over after shooting a new film in Tahiti.
The star, Shelah Fane, needs the rest.
Charlie Chan is called on the scene and has to run through all of the suspects and check their alibis and relationships to Ms. Fane.
There’re lots of red herrings (or whatever fish they use in Hawaii), but Chan finally comes through at the end – as you would expect.
This is typical Biggers; not great literature but his books still read well, even though they were written ninety years ago or so.
A good Charlie Chan mystery.
But the big clues are saved until the last chapter, so you were guessing the whole book about who murdered the movie star and why.
From a beachcomber to a Hollywood director to a psychic, all were linked with the murder and the alibis came and went quickly.
This book was made into one of the first Charlie Chan movies.
Notable that Bela Lugosi played the psychic.
I'd recommend any of the Charlie Chan books for people who love mysteries.
They take place before forensics and so the clues must be interpreted by the mind of Charlie Chan.
This 1929 entry in the Charlie Chan mystery series has Charlie in Honolulu trying to find the murderer of a fading Hollywood actress from among those present at her temporary home for an evening party.
As might be expected, the writer's plot and its resolution are much more in the British mystery style than in the still evolving American style of Hammett, Chandler and the various Black Mask writers.
If you have the patience for the unhurried and stagey pace of the mystery and the succession of red herrings that the writer introduces, you should enjoy this novel.
Shelah Fane returns to Hawaii from Tahiti where she has been working on a movie.
When Shelah is murdered, Charlie Chan is called in to solve the case.
In addition to those already named, Shelah was met by Tarneverro the Great (a medium Shelah relies on), Julie, her employee/ward, and Mr. Bradshaw, a Hawaii publicist who has fallen in love with Julie.
Of course, there is also household staff, and Shelah's first husband is also in Honolulu.
Several of those named have reason to kill Shelah, and there are several without alibis.
Shelah Fane, a star whose glittering ride at the top is quickly coming to an end.
Her latest movie has only a few scenes left to film in Hawaii.
The book opens as the ship that she and the rest of the movie crew comes into port.
There is a man who wants to marry her but she's resisting.
In Hawaii, waiting for Shelah, is her staff, her ward, and the soothsayer she's called in from Los Angeles.
It will come as little surprise to the reader that she later turns up dead.
As one might not expect, this #4 in a series of only 6 books written about Detective Chan does not feel like it was written in 1922.
this story is set in Chan's native Hawaii when it was still a US territory.
This story takes Charlie a while to unravel as a group of Hollywood stars land in Hawaii coming from Tahiti and the set of their latest picture.
Fans of Charlie would love this series which is surprisingly close to the Hollywood movies we remember from Saturday and Sunday afternoons on TV.
Picked this up at a used bookstore in NYC.
After the body of screen star Shelah Fane is found brutally stabbed to death on Waikiki Beach, Charlie Chan follows a twisted path through a tangled web of alibis, false clues, and bizarre characters to the truth behind the mysterious case. This was a delightful read, with Charlie being his charming self, full of sayings and comments. The author leads us around, making the reader suspect one character, then another. Their suspicious actions are explained and become innocent. Then it's on to someone else or back to a previous suspect. I thoroughly enjoyed the book.
The Charlie Chans are simply lovely. This one is set in Hawaii, unlike the 2nd and 3rd, so there's more description of Hawaii in the 20's. The mystery is quite good, some of the dialog is quite catchy -- Charlie gets in a *great* zinger to a guy expressing an ignorant anti-Chinese sentiment. I entirely recommend this book.
A great book reminded me of the movies could have used some Birmingham brown I think. Finished this at 2:30am this morningSuch an awesome mystery that gave Charlie a hard time and I didn't expect who turned out to be the killer; worth reading if you are a mystery fan or a fan of the Charlie chan movies cant wait to read another chan mystery in the future!
Bigger's Chan is smart and low-key. This story is back in Hawaii and gives an interesting picture of Hawaii in the twenties when it was still pretty isolated from the mainland. The only access was really by ship and the culture was much different than now.
OK, but not compelling. Caveat: I am not a mystery fan, I just wanted to sample the writing behind one of the iconic movie detectives. Plus the copy I was reading was from my dad, which he received as a youth - published 1936, I think
