https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/22686.The_Other_Woman
I thought this would be a light, easy, fun read.
Instead, depressing and a little annoying.The gist of the story is that Ellie marries Dan knowing that his mother is a control freak and that her son is still connected by the apron strings.
Ellie and Dan have a child and the mother-in-law interferes in every aspect of their lives to the point of causing an accident with said grandchild.
There were way too many times that she should have stood up for herself and she just withered under her mother-in-law's scrutiny all the while expecting her husband to stand up for her.
ABOUT THIS BOOK: Newly engaged, Ellie is thrilled to be accepted into the loving Cooper clan—which seems like the perfect family she never had—until she begins to realize that Dan’s mom, Linda, is a little too involved.
As Dan and Ellie’s intimate civil wedding ceremony gets transformed into a black-tie affair, Ellie begins to wonder if it’s possible to marry the man without marrying his mother.
. .MY THOUGHTS: I love Jane Green's books, and The Other Woman is no exception.
Green writes in a way that has you tumbling into the book (rather like Alice down the rabbit hole), and becoming part of it all.
Things start to go awry when Dan's mother completely takes over wedding preparations, leaving Ellie to feel like a spectator at her own wedding.
There were points where I felt like Dan's mom was way out of line in her behavior, but most of the time, I felt like the things she did were not really unusual.
Ellie's own mom dying when Ellie was thirteen didn't give her experience in how to deal with an overbearing relative, making her even more sensitive to the things her mother-in-law did.
Toward the end of the book, Ellie seems to begin to grow up and to be less selfish.
When Ellie meets Dans mother Linda she is made to feel very welcome and Linda tries very hard to make Ellie feel like part of their close knit family.
I have a lot of the same problems with my partner and in-laws so whilst reading this book I felt like parts of it was describing episodes of my life!!
Right up until the end of the book I felt like the story could take any number of turns I did not feel the book is in anyway predictable.
I got hooked on this book but when it was coming to the end it felt like it was rushed.
This has to be one of the most depressing, frustrating, banal and predictable books I've ever read.
Ellie is whiney and much more like her mother in law than she thinks.
Dan is a pushover mama's-boy.
Dan's mother is controlling.
Many women have overbearing mothers-in-law, but they learn to deal with them.
Perhaps Ellie was a little too indipendent and unwilling to make the adjustments necessary to become part of a family.
Overall, a forgettable book that makes me frustrated all over again for having read it when I am accidentally reminded of it.
This is not my favorite Jane Green book.
Very good the beginnings then a little dull half way through the book.
Ellie Black meets Dan Cooper they fall in love an marry.
Ellie always want to be part of a close knit family so she is thrilled when she meets the Cooper clan.
Dan's mother Linda Cooper just takes over the wedding like it's hers then after they are married tries to take over their life.
Dan is caught in the middle of the two women he loves most in the world.
Ellie considers her mother-in-law the other woman.
Read a couple of the reviews and some were quite negative.
Jane Green did a fantastic job of capturing the essence of marriage.
Every day is not going to be rosy.
And you're not going to always like your mother-in-law.
Green took us from the beginning of the relationship, to the middle and end.
You really began to wonder if this couple will make it.
It's hard to be in a relationship with a man who is a "mamas boy." I've never heard of Jane Green before this and i will definitely pick up other novels by her.
I sympathized with her a lot especially when she had to deal with her emotions regarding Linda her mother in law.
Although I felt Ellie was over reacting at times towards Linda, I couldn’t help but feel sorry for her.
I can not even imagine being Tom’s mom at that moment!The storyline really flowed perfectly in this book.
The author has a very strong ability to make this all come together in a delightful read.
I found myself feeling Joy for Ellie when she became a mom and yet also sadness for her when she separated from Dan. I recommend this to all women!
Tedious, predictable story of a British woman, motherless, who deals with an overbearing mother-in-law. Presented as light, humorous chick lit, but isn't funny or entertaining at all.
The writing style did nothing to redeem the boring plot which boiled down to an over-bearing mother-in-law.I agreed with Anna's GR review of this book at:http://www.goodreads.com/review/show/...It was in Anna's review that I came across the word "banal" and said to myself that it was a perfect name for one of my GR book shelves.
The story was too shallow; it lacked depth; there was nothing thought-provoking about it.I did enjoy reading another book by Jane Green, The Beach House.
My review of that book can be found at:http://www.goodreads.com/review/show/...I'm not sure if I will try another book by Jane Green.
"The Other Woman" is no exception, especially for those of us who have struggled with the adjustment of entering our husband's family and dealing with a new set of rules and, often, conflicting personalities.
This thoughtful, heart-rending tale will allow you to step back and consider what is truly important in life and how you can work to achieve the lifestyle you want in the family you are creating with your spouse.
It sheds some much-needed light on sensitive topics, including the many things that can come between a husband and wife - and what to do when that happens.
Irrational behavior stresses me out. Consequently, this book totally stressed me out in the middle. Don't worry, though. By the end everyone had stopped acting like idiots. Despite the stress of the middle, I really enjoyed this book. Jane Green is a favorite author of mine - and this didn't disappoint!
Not one of her best. Too much moaning about the mother in law for me and the husband was a bit wimpy - Jane usually writes such strong, gorgeous men
Yep. I'm still on a major Jane Green kick. This one was great and I blew through it. Next, I want to get my hands on her latest, "Swapping Lives."
It was an okay read. I liked it. A bit too dramatic when it comes to the romance, in my opinion. But I liked that the book took a turn that i didn't really expect toward the end.
But after reading a few heavy books, I wanted something fluffy and light.
When Ellie'd wedding becomes a nightmare, she isn't sure she can ever forgive LInda, but once she gets pregnant, things start to get really bad.
Tradegy strikes while on a big family holiday and soon Ellie's life is turned updside down.I really enjoyed the humour, as well as the tension.
I've seen the same sitaution developing in my own family and with friends, so you instantly feel for both Ellie and Linda, although I honestly don't think Dan helped at all!
"So damn readable!" - this was critical acclaim for one of Jane Green's other books, but it is very true!
But it was narrated by Ellie, the 'girl' in this story, and written in such a way that she directly addresses the reader, and makes the story leap out of the book!
It is no small feat to read a book of this size in one night, but the fact that I am still awake after midnight to write this review shows how utterly unputdownable this book was!
Would definitely go to Jane Green in the future if I am looking for an easy-to-read chick flick!
Expecting a super cliche this turned out to be pretty good.
An unexpected perspective, different from the conventional dramatic thinking when it comes to the in-laws, this was actually fun and warm and fuzzy and made you realize that it takes two hands to clap.
One of those weekend reads which make you smile and realize that everything is going to be okay and life is actually not always filled with hardships.
Even though Ellie being too judgmental about everyone and then feeling guilty all the time annoyed me it still was a good read.
I liked this book.
It wasn't meant to be funny and uplifting.
It was meant to show that relationships aren't perfect but if you can find a way to work through them its worth it.
Jane Green wrote it in a way that made me feel Ellie's pain/anger.
I'm fortunate to have a wonderful mother-in-law but there have been times when I've bit my tongue where I normally wouldn't have just to keep peace in the family.
I think the story is realistic and troubling at times but also entertaining at just the right moments.
Ellie’s mother died when she was 13 and she was raised as an only child by her father. All her life she wished she was part of a big happy family. When she meets Dan and his family, she falls head over heals for them all. She finally has a sister and the mother she always wanted. As time progresses, Ellie begins to feel that her mother-in-law is ‘the other woman’ in her marriage. She has to learn how to work with her mother-in-law or risk turmoil in her relationship with Dan. Very good book!
I love the way Jane Green really gets you into the characters lives. You feel like they are one of your close friends and you really feel for them when something goes wrong in their life. This was one of those books that while I was reading it I just kept telling myself 'it's ok I'll just read a little more and then go to bed' then the next time i looked at the clock it was 2 a.m. and I still didn't want to put the book down.
What a wonderful author Jane Green is! I thought this book was brilliant, such inciteful writing concerning the relationship between Mother-in-Law/Daughter-in-Law.I seethed along with Ellie in places, and then came to feel sorry for Linda. And I'm a sucker for slushy romance, so I enjoyed the ending:D
I enjoyed the story of a stereotypical daughter and mother-in-law as a lot of it rang very true for me. I found the story to be quite funny at some times and also feeling quite frustrated for the primary character.But I did not enjoy the ending, it was too contrived and felt like an ending of convenience and not one that required a lot of forethought and consideration.
Lettura piacevole (soprattutto la prima parte, piuttosto carina) poi la questione diventa ridicola e viene svolta malissimo.
am crezut ca va fi o carte din aia amuzantă și care sa binedispuna, dar cand colo m am lovit de problemele vietii. o carte mediocră. 3 stele.
Great girly book to any woman that has a mother-in-law or mother of a boyfriend that is way too involved. There is more of a story line than I expected and I was pleasantly surprised.
Was like reading a semi-autobiography of my life! It hit very close to mother in law territory!
Maybe it's my pregnancy hormones but I really fet, through most of the book, that the main character was over reating. Now that I've finished the book -- I realize that was the whole point! LOL
Good easy read. quick reading.
I tried to give Jane green another chance to read and she just was not doing it for me.
