https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/128091.My_Darling_My_Hamburger
Oh, this booked soothed my adolescent soul! I just love Paul Zindel...all of his books are so quirky and warmhearted. Can I get an Amen?
Liz assuring boyfriend Sean of her homemaking skills: "I can cook and wash clothes."
The specific crisis situation that this book revolves around perfectly recreates the atmosphere that many teenagers nearing graduation from high school face in their own personal ways, the feeling that all of the sudden their life has started to move a little bit too quickly after seeming to have traveled at a snail's crawl up until then, and they're scared of what's coming next and not at all sure how to make the right decisions as a long series of life-altering choices suddenly swoop down and demand to be made right now.
It was too short, it was dumb.
I gave this book 2/5 stars.
I regret even that.
I don't know how people like this.
I suppose I would have to be a high school student in the 1950s to really get it though.
I would have liked to find out what happened with Liz, but it's fine.
The story made no sense.
I think I might be taking this one to the free little library.
I'm too "meh" about it.
I didn't really like it.
I don't think I even have it any more.
If I do, I've hidden it from myself.
I enjoyed "My Darling, My Hamburger" by Paul Zindel, because I could relate to the characters.
Liz's friend, Maggie, is there for her with whatever decision she makes.
Dennis is Sean's best friend, who thinks of himself as ugly.
At school, Liz doesn't go to the dances with Maggie and Dennis, because she tries to save her money for an abortion.
Many issues of today with abortions and teens relate to this book.The main theme of "My Darling, My Hamburger" is sex and the consequences.
This book could relate to many young adults.
This is the story of two best friends, seniors in high school, Liz and Maggie.
Liz is glamorous and beautiful and has a boyfriend, Sean.
Liz sets her up with Dennis, a friend of Sean's.
As Maggie starts feeling a little more confident and her relationship with Dennis gets off the ground, Liz starts to spiral out of control.
While initially she was the lucky one, to have a beautiful popular girl be her friend, in the end she was a better friend to Liz, even with the consequences.
I must be an idiot or something because I did not find this book charming like everyone else.
Yes there was teen angst that we can all relate to but it all revolved around sex.
I could not relate to any of the characters or feel compassion for any of them.
The book takes over the course of a school year, but there were no changes in them.
Then ending was awkward and left a lot of unanswered questions.
While I realize that life may not make sense all the time and the author was trying to show that, too many questions were left hanging in the air.
I do not recommend this book.
In preparation for the course on Young Adult library users I am taking this summer, I started reading Jezebel's "Fine Lines" column, and this book was featured at one point.
I've never read Zindel, despite a hefty appetite for this kind of junk.This book could not be written today.
Zindel writes so expertly about the ambivalence that kids feel - towards relationships, towards themselves - and a confusion that is so real.
I hope more YA authors today will be inspired by Zindel, and write more honest tales that aren't so concerned with what the character is wearing and where they are shopping.
I read this when I was a kid & would have given it 4 stars then.
Liz is an idiot, her boyfriend's a jerk, Maggie needs to get it together & know her worth, & the guy she goes on a date with was ok.
Reading this a s a kid I was alot more sympathetic to Liz going through the whole abortion ordeal.
Reading this now I'm impressed & surprised that Paul Zindel wrote a book that dealt with sex & abortion & birth control & all that jazz way back in 1969.
Kudos to Mr. Zindel for doing that.
I found a copy online, because all I remembered from my youth was the title, and I wanted to read or re-read it after all these years. It's very well-written, painfully true to life, and in the end, rather devastating.
Really liked it when I read it back in the seventies at the appropriate age to be able to really identify with the characters and their issues. It's a good "coming-of-age" book and I think it has a timelessness about it that will lend it to modern day YA must-reads.
This is the book I was so excited to review. I had so many thoughts when reading it and when I finished I just could not wait to get them down. Essentially, My Darling, My Hamburger is a book about first love, but it is more than that, rather it is a book on how teens deal with sexuality. Two couples are featured, Maggie and Dennis -- testing relationship waters for the first time, and Liz and Sean who engaged in sex. Read the rest of my review here
Favorite book from high school. Led Paul Zindel to be my favorite YA author.
I was talking to my aunt and she said she had to read this in jr. high lol. Talk about trying to scare kids out of sex.
This book seems unoriginal now but it was a revelation to me as a pre-teen
great story about the complexities of love and relationships in the teenage years
This was terrible. I loved it.
Oh man, this one had me at hello. I loved it and have read it so many times.
One reason is because it really shows how some teenagers go through on their school life their life at home and their own life.
Another reason why you should read this book is because the author is a really good writer he makes you feel like you are actually in the book.
The main characters in the book are Maggie Tobin , Liz Carstenten , Pierre Jefferson and Dennis Holowitz.
If it was possible to leave negative stars, I would.I realize this was written in 1969 and a different time, but how was this ever recommended as young adult lit?
It's horribly written and so boring i had to skim through most if it in about 15 mins.
The characters were caricatures of disturbing stereotypes: the fat girl, the blonde, the good guy with nasty dad, bad stepdad, geek, and boy with a bad reputation.
The title is also stupid.
I get what it is supposed to mean, they hammer it home enough, but i think most would pick it up because of the lame title and be disappointed.

I've been re-reading some things I read long ago and didn't remember well.
Unfortunately, while I remember loving this book when I was in 6th grade, it does not hold up well.
45 or so years later, both the characters and plot just seem too cliched...though I remember they felt utterly fresh and ugent to me when I read it in about 1972.
I do wish that I could give it 2 1/2 stars, just to acknowledge the appreciation I did have for it as an 11-year-old...but since Goodreads forces me to choose between 2 or 3 stars, I'll have to go with 2 on this one.
I remember reading this - maybe summer of sixth or seventh grade. It was one of those books that I felt so grown up by being allowed to read. Reading as an adult it seems like it was written to scare teenagers away from having sex. Funny the difference 35 years will make. And, this confirms that as an adult, I'm really not a fan of YA. My rating is the collective of the two readings.
I thought this was going to be a cute story. It was nothing but the sad account of four teenagers who make primarily poor decisions. The saddest part is there are people who feel they are all alone in the world. The only moral I could glean from it was, the best we can do in life is learn from our mistakes and the mistakes of those around us.
Great!
This must have been pretty controversial when it was first written. Liked it. Weird ending.
I love Paul Zindel....."They should have known what they were risking. The present becomes the past, and it continues inside you".
In this novel, the author creates sympathetic characters, portrays realistic situations and conflicts, and includes vivid details from which the reader can picture exactly what is happening in their mind.
In the depicted situations, he hits the point exactly and expresses the way many teenagers or even adults feel through the thoughts of Liz. For example, sometimes people may appear to be strong on the outside, but inside, they may feel the exact opposite.
The last reason why My Darling, My Hamburger is an amazing novel is because Zindel included vivid details from which the reader can picture exactly what is happening in their mind.
This is how love is described in this book, as Dennis and Maggie and Sean and Liz, teenage adolescents experience love, their families accepting that they are in love, as well as living up to their responsibilities.
Because the book is written from the point of view of all of characters you are able to read how the characters feel about the subjects in their lives.
In the book Maggie describes how she sometimes feels left out because her friend Liz always gets to hook up with the most popular guys.
It's about teenage love and parental disappointment, and it stars Paul Zindel's usual cast of characters--a smart boy with a father who doesn't seem to know or care anything about being a father.
And an ordinary girl with decent, but clueless, parents.Published in 1969 and so much a book of the times--the adults just don't get it.
The parents in Paul Zindel's book were post-baby boon generation, older than me but younger than my parents.
Maybe they cared too much, but we always knew they cared.The attitude of parents in Zindel's books is more like, kids are just something I have because everyone else has them.
