https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/99296.Diary_of_a_Worm
This is a very cute story that is told from a worm's perspective. It goes through the year and explains what worms are doing during that time, but also having them do stuff humans would do; like school.
Funny and cute.
No matter what or whom, diaries are always interesting and thrilling to read.This time, I came to read a worm's diary. It was informative to acknowledge that worms are not boring, reckless and free animals. In fact, they are very very busy. Like humans, they have to go to school and get good grades. How do you suppose they would be able to tell us their journey in a diary otherwise?It was funny and adorable.
Check out more picture book reviews @ Perspective of a Writer...In this diary of a young worm boy he explains he he's not that different from you or me: He lives with his parents, plays with his friends, and even goes to school.I'm not really a fan of the art style but it fit the comic book like diary entries.
Still I think this book is quite re-readable especially for a child interested in insects!!BOTTOM LINE: Perfect for worm loving children!!______________________You can find this review and many others on my book blog @ Perspective of a Writer.
Dairy of a Worm is a funny book that will teach children facts about worms in a very fun, unique, and enjoyable format.
The book format, illustrations, captions, and humanistic qualities of the worm are what make this book fun to read, unique, and different from any other animal or insect fact book.
It is also fun because children get to see firsthand what it is like to be a worm when reading the worm’s diary from his perspective.
Overall, this science-fantasy book contains information and humor in a unique format, all of which young children will love!
I learned that some authers are really good writers.
Tunnel into the hilarious world of a young worm through a series of laugh-out-loud diary entries chronicling his life. Join worm as he goes to school, tries to play the hockey pokey (think about that for a second), and harasses his sister ("no matter how long you look at your face, it will always look like your rear"). Ecological message makes this an easy-pick for Earth Day story times. CIP: A young worm discovers, day by day, that there are some very good and some not so good things about bein
Join worm as he goes to school, tries to play the hockey pokey (think about that for a second), and harasses his sister ("no matter how long you look at your face, it will always look like your rear").
Ecological message makes this an easy-pick for Earth Day story times.
CIP: 	A young worm discovers, day by day, that there are some very good and some not so good things about being a worm in this great big world."A young worm discovers, day by day, that there are some very good and some not so good things about being a worm in this great big world."School Library Journal"Bliss's whimsical cartoonish illustrations depict events from a worm's-eye view..." The Horn Book***See also Diary of a Fly and Diary of a Spider for other read-alikes.
Ok seriously I really liked this book. It was such an original idea. The way that things were explained from a worm's POV was genius!
They especially love worms that write funny books.
They've looked through the book many times since.One caution - there is a part where the worm tells his sister her face looks like her rear end, with accompanying dead-on illustration.
One of the 8-yr-olds was studying the picture and said, "yeah, but her face does look like her bottom" so they all crowded around and discussed the moral rights and wrongs saying mean but true things.
Their conclusion was that yes, her face does look like her read end, but it's not polite to say it out loud.
Hilarious and adorable! Diary entries by a little boy worm with appearances by his family (I love Grandpa worm!) and his friend the spider. Super funny. I would have loved this as a child since I was always digging in the dirt and playing with worms. Love the subtle eco-friendly message conveyed that shows how worms are important to the earth and that even the smallest creatures have a role in helping and protecting the planet. :)We're very small, and sometimes people forget that we're even here. But, like mom always says, the earth never forgets we're here. <3
Diary of a Worm is a fun, accessible read for students. I loved the diary format and the creativity and humor in every entry. This would be a great text to engage students before a lesson on insects, especially because it invites the reader to relate to the insects (often detested creatures). The vivid illustrations and comedic style gave me the feeling of reading a comic book. I think this book will be a quick and engaging read for many kinds of young readers.
This is such a cute little children's book. We laugh and laugh every time we read it. Our family's favorite part is when he writes about his sister. No matter how long she looks in the mirror her face will always look the same as her rear end. Worm's friend spider thought it was pretty funny, his mother, however did not.
It is gooooood
I liked his mother
I read this book to my neighbor and he liked it and it was about a worm that takes you through his point of view and has to avoid being stepped on and all of the dangerous humans. He also has to go to school and live a normal life of people but as a worm. He also eats homework because worms eat things to make dirt. The theme is that your life could be worse and there are many different points of view in the world.
With the new school year on the horizon, I'm going through my boxes of children's books in storage and found Diary of a Worm. Who knew the inner thoughts of a burrowing invertebrate animal could be so relatable to kids? Your teacher gets on you for losing eating your homework. Your mom gets on you for making fun of your sister. But at the end of the day, it's all about making your own mark on the ecosystem. Good for as a mentor text for writing or for a unit on worms/insects.
Hilarious perspective on a worms life. He makes a diary of his life, what he does and what he likes and doesn't like. His best friend is a spider and they are very different. He lives with his parents and goes to school just like us. My 7 year old son and I laughed through the whole book. His favorite part was when the worm tells his sister that her face will always look like her rear end!
Title: A Diary of a Worm Author: Doreen Cronin Illustrator: Hary Bliss GR Level: L Lexile: 510 Grade Level:2nd Publisher: Scholastic Date: 2003Genre: FictionPages: 32 Summary: This fiction story follows a worm throughout his day to day life.
The worm in the story is writing a journal.
In his journal, he talks about his life and he keeps track of what happens to him from day to day.
The book uses humor and illustrations to introduce the concept of journaling to students.
Teaching Ideas: I would use this book to introduce the concept of journaling to students.
The earth gives us everythingwe need."Brief Book Summary: A young male worm records his experience and journey learning the good and bad features of being a small worm in a very big, very vast world.Professional Recommendation/Review #1:Ken Marantz and Sylvia Marantz (Children's Literature)Our worm hero is introduced on the cover, writing the diary that is the text.
The functions of being a small worm in a big world are very relatable to the young and maturing children as they learn how to navigate through their own experiences alongside the worm.Evaluation of Literary Elements:The bright and realistic illustrations of the book keep readers intrigued and interested in the plot line of the book.
Title: Diary Of A WormAuthor: Doreen CroninIllustrator: Harry BlissGenre: Online Book (TumbleBooks)Theme(s): Friendship, Differences, Importance of all species Opening line/sentence: March 20Mom says there are three things I should always remember:1.
The earth gives us everything we need.Brief Book Summary: A young worm describes his daily life through short journal entries.
The worm has a great sense of humor that adds excitement to what could be a boring story that I have seen before with journal entries.
Daily journals are a great thing to implement in my future classroom because students can document what they do in class each day and take home to their parents.
My kids loved this book. It tells the funny life stories from a worm's perspective. It is enriched with imagination and details. How do you dance when you have no legs and arms? The book offers examples of how creativity and imagination can make writing fun to read.
We see him befriend a spider and try to hang upside down, along with his trouble of being a worm and eating all your homework.
This book has a great sense of humor that makes you laugh from page to page at all the ridiculous situations this worm finds himself in.
Worm even has big dreams to be a Secret Service agent and to protect the president.
The author incorporates cute situations like Worm and Spider interactions to show what can happen in real life.
Worm has big dreams, just like anyone else and he is not taking no for an answer.
He writes of days spent with his friend spider,his dreams,goals,experiences at worm school and things he learns from his parents and grandfather as well as his interactions with humans.
Another interesting thing about this book is that although it is a diary the elaborate and colorful illustrations tell the story from a third person perspective.
I also really enjoyed how the author incorporated characteristics only a worm would have and things only a worm would do or experience while at the same time giving him human traits and experiences that most elementary school children can relate to,It is an outstanding child friendly picture book.
My library has Diary of a Worm, Diary of a Spider, and Diary of a Fly, but I chose Diary of a Worm for my bug-themed storytime because of the line, "My older sister thinks she's so pretty.
The Diary of a...
books are a little wordy, but great for storytime because you can always paper clip the pages together that you want to skip, and it's easy to skip since it's in diary format and not all the entries are essential to the story.
But since diary books are so in right now, I'd highly recommend this series to the little kids who aren't quite ready for Wimpy Kid.Ages 4-6
She keeps a diary of her life, and begins the story writing about how she is nervous for the first day of school.
She learns how to fly and loves school; in the end she decides she wants to be a super hero.
She realizes that she probably will never be a super hero like she wanted but that it is good to have big dreams and believe in yourself.
There could have been more interaction in the E-book.
Although, I liked the quiz at the end and the activities at the end.
This was an E-Book read through Tumblebooks.com
Diary of a Worm is a fun story of a worm's life.
It is a fictional book about worm who narrates his life.
It shows what he does on a day to day basis, what things are like from his point of view down underground.Diary of a Worm is a great book.
The illustrations were colorful and had detailed backgrounds.They were fun to look at from the point of view of the little worm.
It is fictional, but has some truth to what worms do underground.
It is a great book to read to have a fun informational book about the life of a worm.
Suka sama ilustrasinya. Buku ini ditujukan untuk 1tahun dengan pendamping dan lima tahun ke atas dengan membaca mandiri.ceritanya lucu, tapi lebih baik lagi kalau dengan catatan harian itu lebih mengenal cacing. Meskipun fiksi, tapi cerita tentang cacing yang menari di pesta dansa sekolah...rasanyaaa, agak kurang sesuai yaaa untuk anak-anak pre school. mungkin menari dan bernyanyi bersama teman-teman di sekolah lebih sesuai.suka dengan catatan harian di akhir buku ini Tidak selalu mudah menjadi seekor cacing. Kami kecil sekali dan terkadang orang melupakan kami. Tapi, kata Ibu, bumi tidak akan melupakan kami.
Diary of A Worm by Doreen Cronin, illus. by Harry Bliss, Published 2003. Genre: FictionFormat: Physical Book. Plot Summary: This fun book details the life of a young worm as he explores, learns, and plays. It goes through several months in his life and discusses the trails that face young worms and what he learns during that time. Considerations: None.Review: New York Times Book Review, Nov. 2003. Selection Source: Charlotte Huck's Children's Literature: A Brief Guide.Recommended Age: Ages 6 &am
Diary of A Worm by Doreen Cronin, illus. by Harry Bliss, Published 2003. Genre: FictionFormat: Physical Book. Plot Summary: This fun book details the life of a young worm as he explores, learns, and plays. It goes through several months in his life and discusses the trails that face young worms and what he learns during that time. Considerations: None.Review: New York Times Book Review, Nov. 2003. Selection Source: Charlotte Huck's Children's Literature: A Brief Guide.Recommended Age: Ages 6 & 7.
I absolutely love reading this book to my students.
They love the character in the book and how funny it is.
This book is easy for the kids to relate to because it refers to things that they know like school and the dentist and makes it funny.
It is a great resource to use when teaching students about worms and what they do for the earth.
It also teaches them a little about other animals like spiders and ants and how they are different from worms.
The pictures in this book are so detailed and cute for children.
Definitely a must read!
This is the diary .
of a worm.
Surprisingly, a worm is not that different from you or me: He lives with his parents, plays with his friends, and even goes to school.
Oh, and his head looks a lot like his rear end.Cute, Clever book.
I am not sure how it will play out as a read aloud, but know the kids will love to look at it and see all the details that make it as special as it is.
