https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/94669.The_Mistress_of_Spices
I probably wouldn’t have read this if I hadn’t been introduced to Ms. Divakaruni by a former student who was taking a class from her and loved her.
I always feel as though I should read people’s books if I’ve met them, which has gotten me stuck with some duds.
The story takes place in a little shop in Oakland, of all places, where an old woman named Tilo sells spices.
Because...(mystical background music)...Tilo isn’t really an old woman — she’s an immortal "Mistress of Spices" in disguise, endowed with special powers to see into people’s souls and heal them through the spices that both aid and rule her.
She "inhabits" an old body for no good reason other than she might actually be that old (the book meanders about the "years and years" spent here and there).
In addition, the reader loses all interest after the umpteenth convolution surrounding an old hag in a hole-in-the-wall grocery store.She falls for some dark-haired American and the only reason the author seems to provide is that his clothes look expensive.
Despite being good-looking himself, he loves (for no apparent reason and not in a platonic way) this old hag in rags.
The author has an odd form of Tourrete's that makes her spit out similies - "eyes dark as a tropical night" - that aren't necessarily half bad , but there are so many of them they begin to grate.
By someone else.The title character is put in an old woman's body for no real reason other than it seems the author thought an old crone tending a mystical spice shop seemed appropriate.
The stories of the characters she helps are cliches in Indian-American writing, and each has a neatly packaged, simple resolution when the problem is more complex.(view spoiler)[ She causes a destructive earthquake, but she gets her man, so it's a happy ending?
spicy!!I have read almost all books of Chitra Banerjee and each read makes me crave for more..
her intriguing characters, colorful stories and much are like bites from your faviorite dish which you eat one at a time so that the taste lasts forever..
holding me close to the book and I wish it never ends..
The best part about her books are the interesting character sketches..
generally a character has shades of black or white or a mixed grey..
but Chira's characters have all vibrant shades of red, blue, yellow, green, purple, mustard, plum, brown and all colors seen or unseen but felt..
Yes, this is magical realism; no, it isn't as accomplished as the best examples in that genre.
Yes, it is an occasionally beguiling love story; no, it isn't without its languors and flat spots.
Yes, the end in particular keeps one turning pages to see what happens; no, it isn't quite as moving and powerful as this reader hoped it would be.
I felt the strongest passages weren't the magical realist touches but Tilo's everyday interactions with the largely Indian-American clientele she serves.
I felt the least believable, least convincing material was that having to do with Raven's back story.
However, it is soon clear that these spices are not only the exotic, culinary delights of the Indian cuisine that we love.The lady of the shop's story begins in India a few centuries before where she is born as Nayan Tara, not the prettiest of the children, a gifted child who dominates the household since her magic powers enriches the family in their small village near the river.
The "Mistress of Spices" is a delightful blend of historical Indian mysticism, modern realism, cross-cultural interpretation of life and experiences, immigration issues and magic.
Magična Indija kroz bajkovitu priču o začinima i njihovom utjecaju na ljude i njihove živote, osjećaje i odluke, sa prstohvatom ljubavi i njezinim posljedicama. Začini su samo dio priče, ono bitno su ipak ljudi, žena koja je odlučila izaći iz svog balona u kojem je živjela i pomoći drugima oko sebe da pronađu svoju sreću, čak i uz mogućnost da ona zauvijek izgubi sve svoje.
That happens and she becomes the Queen of the pirates for a while until she travels to the island to meet the First Mother to whom she apprentices herself as a Mistress of Spices, taking the name Tila.
As the novel ends she takes yet another name.The novel opens with Tila, an old, dark-skinned and wrinkled woman, the mistress of spices, who runs a small Indian grocery in Oakland, CA.
Tila disobeys the spices, exceeds her mission by going out and getting involved in people’s lives.
I absolutely adored this book.
I've read it about ten times since I first got my hand on it, and it's been a companion all through puberty and the rocky university years.
She evokes such beautiful imagery and a wonderful magical universe just with her words; one cannot help but be swept away in its beauty.
I have noticed that a few of her other books tend to get weighed down with the language.
For example, Sister of my Heart; Vine of Desire and Arranged Marriage - all of these books are incredibly sad and downright draining to read.
I was expecting more of this book. I picked it up randomly at the library because I am intrigued by Indian cooking and their creative use of spices. I liked the soft, poetic language of the first pages, but it was a weak book. The skeleton that the magical language hung on was weak and porous. It seemed immediately to be derivitive - an inferior version of "Like Water for Chocolate". If you like magical realism, read that one instead.
This book is so unique and beautiful. Really liked this one! Full review to come.
Magical realism, spices and a rebellious heroine... It had all the right ingredients but the first half gave me a feeling of something amiss. The second half was racy but the ending was too contrived...
Abandonado tras intentarlo varias veces, pero la protagonista no me acaba de enganchar. No me gusta dejar los libros a mitad, porque a veces te sorprende con el final, sin embargo con éste prefiero no despediciar mi tiempo.
The only thing i like about this book is how the girls tries so hard to fight against her desires ti not go against her teaching and be like a fallen angel to earth but it still happens in the end which is funny.
It went against what she said in the beginning to her teacher that she will not submit to her desires but she did which is funny.Overall not a book i would read again or tell others to read because it doesn't seem to have anything that would interest you or catches the reader's attention.
love the premise, magic acting through spices.
the heroine is supposed to use her training and powers for her own people but compassion leads her to help all who come to her--a lesson in diversity?
a dreamy lilt to the tone of the writing, charming word arrangement (is English the author's second language?), an ending that reminds me of that one Batman villain from the animated series who wants to destroy the world so it can heal itself over (Razul?).
the love story part is on the verge of silly but silliness does seem to be inherent in the most touching love stories
After an ordeal she ends up on an island guarded by an old woman known as the Old One. She takes Tilo into her wings and teaches her, and many other young girls like Tilo who are already there, the power of the spices, the chants and ways to control them, along with the rules to do so.
Each girl, once she learns the tricks of the trade, is despatched in an old woman’s body, to various corners of the globe to help the people there with the power of spices.
If they fail any of these rules, they will be destroyed by fire and recalled (!) to the island.Our protagonist, Tilo, ends up running a spice shop in Oakland area of USA.
I tried to read and enjoy this book. I read the summary, prior to purchasing it and it sounded promising. However, after the first 15 pages, I knew I was doomed. None-the-less, I kept going, but I just could not get into this book. The prose is beautiful but heavy...and I detect this is supposed to be along the lines of fantasy...but I was lost. To the DNF shelf this goes until another time.
Vidi il libro qulche anno fa sul banco di una biblioteca dell'Università, era di una ragazza che a furia di leggerlo lo aveva consumato.
Mi colpì il nome dell'autrice, che non conoscevo...
Poi finalmente il momento giusto è arrivato: ed ecco spalancarmisi il mondo creato da Tilo, la Maga delle Spezie.
Ogni capitolo ha il nome di una spezia e raconta un passo in più di questa vecchia signora chiusa nella sua bottega, che in realtà è giovanissima ed ha un mondo tutto per se.
Il suo destino e quello di altri personaggi sono intercciati con la benedizione o la maledizione delle spezie, che in ogni momento sono sovrane!
The ones I have read are The Unknown Errors of Our Lives, Arranged Married, and the last one is The Mistress of Spices.Like in her other books, in The Mistress of Spices, Divakaruni uses her beautiful writing style.
Both Raven—lover of Tilo—and Tilo, they have a certain power, an inhuman one, yet they are humanized by the humane love they feel for each other.Not only the style and the plot can make readers unwilling to put the book down, but also the beautiful phrases."Hope not built on reason brings disappointment only.""I tell myself, I deserve dignity, I deserve happiness."This novel has been filmed.
Libro strano, riuscito solo a metà : la prima parte e’ molto bella e trasporta il lettore in una sfera atemporale dove sogno e fiaba si fondono armoniosamente, nella parte centrale la narrazione diventa piu’ tradizionale e sentimentale ed anche piu’ monotona ed il finale e’ da romanzetto rosa. Nonostante questo sbilanciamento, e’ un libro da leggere : la narrazione e’ lieve ed il romanzo non e’ basato su una trama ben definita, ma ruota intorno all’ insieme di odori, sapori e colori di cui trasuda la bottega della Maga. Le descrizioni delle spezie sono liriche.
“Sometimes I wonder if there is such a thing as reality, an objective and untouched nature of being. Or if all that we encounter has already been changed by what we had imagined it to be. If we have dreamed it into being.”― Chitra Banerjee Divakaruni, The Mistress of Spices I saw the movie last year and felt there was a whole back story missing ... I was right.What a beautiful fairy tale with elements of "Chocolat" but with a spicy twist!
This is a modern-day fairy tale, and like all fairy tales there is a lesson (or several) to be learned. Reminiscent of "Like Water for Chocolate." Makes me wish I knew more about spice lore and Indian folklore. I read it again in Sept 1998 and it is even better on second reading. I picked up many more clues. FATE at work here? DESTINY? A most intriguing book.
It may have taken some time for me to connect with book, but many times in many characters it spoke my personality.this is a book that leaves an impact and definitely makes you love your spices more..
I was reduced to tears. Never felt this way about a book of fiction for a really long time. A must read for everyone who loves good, well crafted & sublime Indian fiction. Those who are into the spices themselves, this will be something beautiful to experience with all your senses.
Bits of magic, fantasy, folk remedies, herbal information, cultural studies of the lives of immigrants from India living in Oakland in the 1980’s (prejudice, violence), and wish-fulfillment highlight this book by an author whose book of short stories, “Arranged Marriage,” I truly enjoyed.
Later in the story as she explains her inner thoughts, we are whiplashed between the poor little victim persona and the guilt-ridden, but not quite repentant, arrogant young teen.
Which is it that explains anything at all in the current role of crone in the spice store?
Fourth, the love story between the sexy young male and Tilo the crone was far down the line of incredibility even for a “fantasy.” It was enjoyable as female wish-fulfillment, though.
Tilo, koja je u potpunosti posvećena tim začinima, ima još jednu čudesnu moć, a to je da „vidi“ sudbine tih običnih ljudi, njihove financijske i porodične probleme, te im osim začina daje i savjete, ali i ono što im najviše treba: a to su pripravci koji liječe bol duše, pripravci koji daju snagu i vjeru u bolje sutra, te liječe od odbijanja, zla, daju mudrost, razumijevanje i ljubav.Mogu reći da ona to radi na jedan sasvim korektan i zanimljiv način, uvodeći se u rutinu svakodnevnog posla, ali i pomaganja ljudima.To traje sve dotle, dok u njenu trgovinu ne uđe tajanstveni Amerikanac koji utječe na njene i misli, ali i na njene osjećaje, pa samim tim i njeno daljnje djelovanje.Što napraviti kad ti netko zauzme jedan dio srca i duše i ne želi otići odavde?
This book is redolent with the richness and scent of spices.
But ultimately it is a book about people, about life,about love and about belonging.
For those of you who dislike the ending all I can say is that it is a dramatic ending but also a subtle and mature one - especially when you compare the Mistress of Spices' response to another dramatic event earlier in the book.
It is also an unusual and magical love story, but it is magic of a practical kind -spice magic teaching us that love and magic are there to help us all through the challenges of life, together.
I totally wanted to like this, and I did starting out...but 1/3 of the way through I just felt the pace slow to the speed of molasses, or maybe ghee if we're going to be culturally accurate.Tilo travels through time from a magical island to a spice shop in Oakland, where she gives out magic potions to other Indians but is supposed to let everyone else suffer through life on their own.
(Yeah, that's the premise.) Then she meets a handsome American who appears to see how beautiful she is under her disguise of an old woman, and they fall in love, or something.
E anticipo che io non dico mai, "ni".
Più di metà del libro è affascinante, poetica, fiabesca.
Ma, a un certo punto, questa vita così diversa e magica decide di incamminarsi per la strada del romanzo per adolescenti (view spoiler)[(di quelli scadenti, aggiungo), di cui la vicenda ricalca tutte le banalità.
Sul finale, la narrazione sembra volersi riscattare, riprendendo le fila di alcune vicende iniziate nel momento "poetico" della prima metà del libro.
Il risultato, non particolarmente brillante, allontana solo di poco un finale scontato, zuccheroso, prevedibile da darti l'impressione che il romanzo sia l'opera di due distinte autrici  (hide spoiler)]
Hacía semanas que me estaba llamando desde una de las estanterías de El Corte Inglés.
Apenas leí la sinopsis, pero sabía que el libro de estaba eligiendo para leer su historia.Al principio me extrañaba la forma en que Chitra lo había escrito.
Sus nombres, su poder, su amor, sus reprimendas, consejos y advertencias.Las historias que pasan por el bazar de especias.Abuelo de Geeta, Jagjit, casi Lalita, Haroun.El encuentro de Tilo con su americano solitario.Una historia que deja marca e el corazón y en la mente.
Me será muy difícil oír la historia de otro libro después de éste.
