https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/60934.Imago
Wow!
Octavia Butler creates an earth now almost completely made up of the aliens, their human mates, their children and now a new type of offspring.
The aliens have 3 sexes, male, female and it.
They have deliberately not allowed humans to reproduce by themselves any more, because of their historic violence and hierarchy.
They have also only allowed males and female constructs to be created from their matings with humans, no "'its" have been born, but something has gone wrong and an 'it' comes out of its metamorphosis.
What will happen to this new being?
The last volume of the mind blowing, thought provoking Lilith’s Brood series (I prefer the original name Xenogenesis myself, it has a nice sci-fi ring to it).Jodahs the protagonist of this book is another offspring of Lilith Iyapo.
As Jodahs is neither male or female, and certainly not a hermaphrodite, the pronoun it is the only appropriate one for referring to characters of the “ooloi” gender; he third sex of the alien Oankali race.
However, mating with the Oankali would lead to hybrid offsprings and eventual end of the original human race.After reviewing the two previous volumes of this series I am almost out of hyperbole.
WOW! What a perfect end to this great series! Definitely the strongest book in my opinion. Will I recommend the series? Only to a certain extant. It's a heavy read, not because of the style or the descriptions, but because of the existential questions you are constantly being bombarded with. It's a world where you can't even decide what's truly wrong or what's truly right, it can be quite infuriating if you try to pick sides. Basically, if you like dystopian books with "peaceful, well-meaning" aliens in it, there's a chance you would enjoy it.
The Ooloi are the third, gender-less sex of the Oankali, the alien race of ‘gene traders’ that saved the remnants of humanity on the condition that humanity share its DNA with them and be forever transformed in the process.Once again Butler doesn’t hesitate to plunge us into the unknown, this time exploring the strangest aspect of the Oankali, the psychically-powerful Ooloi who can manipulate the DNA of living creatures directly, serving to help the Oankali continuously evolve as they combine with new lifeforms throughout the galaxy.
This installment follows that mysterious third sex, the Ooloi, as one of Lilith’s children matures sexually into the adult form (hence the title, Imago).In the first book, the Oankali have rescued the small remainder of humanity from a disaster of their own creation and have begun combining the two species.
Lilith gradually becomes convinced that she won’t be allowed to live as human and reluctantly gets involved with the aliens, although it is against her true wishes.In the second book, we follow Lilith’s construct child, Akin, who actually has five parents and who understands the relationship between the two species better than either the humans or the Oankali.
His every look, his reaction, his touch, his scent.
Ms Butler touches so many sensitive issues that it is impossible to mention all - sexuality, gender identity, deformities, just to name a few.
There were many moments when I stopped to absorb exactly what I just read and realize how many things we take for granted and never appreciate them.
“Muddy”, the Humans said, and filtered it or let the silt settle to the bottom before they drank it.
“Just water”, we constructs said, and shrugged.
We had never known other water.Usually, I read 200 odd pages in a day, max two.
The oankali have three sexes: female, male, and ooloi.
Up until now in the story, there have only been male and female construct children.
Imago tells the story of Jodahs, the first ooloi construct.
This book ties the previous two together seamlessly by showing what Jodahs is and all that it can do; it is the best "result" of the human and oankali gene trade as it has all the skills and intelligence of an oankali ooloi, plus the advantage of an understanding of human-specific struggles and oankali-specific fears (of humans and human potential for destruction).
From the aliens' point of view, their rescue of humans and repopulation of Earth is for their own good.
They need to cross-breed with humans, to avoid inbreeding.And the aliens are experts at genetic modification.
Not that they wish it on anybody, but the genetic code for cancerous cells is important for re-growing organs and limbs.Humans are extremely afraid of the aliens, because they do not understand the situation.
They are afraid of the appearance of aliens, they are skeptical of their motivations, and are paranoid of other humans who have associated with the aliens.This novel has themes of genetic modification, racism, xenophobia, and social structure.
hmmmm....somehow, I am suspicious of being manipulated into liking this book.This last installment of Butler's trilogy has us seeing the inside view of the ooloi, the 'third sex' of the aliens that have taken over Earth.
Ooloi operate by using their pheromones and sensory arms to calm and pleasure humans.
Once this happens to you, you decide you like them and literally cannot live with out them.What we don't know is how bad they NEED humans.
While they all go off happily into their future, it is an induced happiness, which seems, I don't know, wrong somehow.
Since it has been several hundred years since book #1, and now it is has been 50 years between books #2 and #3, we have a lot of callbacks to the preceding books.You feel for Jodahs, but also I was torn because as readers we know that he and his other sibling have to have mates or they will be forced to be exiled to the ship and away from their family.
It is even said later in the book, if the ooloi had looked more like how Jodahs now does, more humans would not have been able to say no to the Oankali and resist.
Other nice touches abound: a character (Ooloi – ie part-alien) devolves into a sluglike ooze floating in a jungle river for lack of human touch, its body mimicking what species it comes most close to; if it should devolve further, we’re informed, it would break apart into diseased cells, each capable of the same mimicry, and infiltrate the ecosystem, ultimately endangering the planet.
I hear Imago is the third book in a series of four (the others told, I think, from human perspectives); that didn’t bother me either – the story seemed complete enough in itself – but I’m curious to read more.
Akin is a construct, and while we obviously side with him, we are given a deeper understanding of the Oankali morality.In "Imago," Jodahs wants a challenge and must take an active role in self-fulfillment.
We feel the needs and pressures that its Oankali nature presses on it, and we can't help but sympathize even as it does really reprehensible things like binding unsuspecting humans to it.
It is a thoughtful and thought-proving look at human nature and morality, continuing to make the reader question themselves, their choices, and their suddenly ambiguous values.I'm very glad it's summer vacation and I could just devour this trilogy in one go.
In this final book of the Xenogenesis trilogy, the focus shifts again, this time to another of Lilith's sons, Jodahs, who turns out to be the first human-born ooloi (the third Oankali gender).
I didn't feel that the questions that arise from the human/Oankali interaction were explored in any new way from the previous books and it didn't grip me like the second book did.
I just didn't get that feeling of satisfaction that I wanted--it felt like there should be more.I'm glad I read the series as it stretched my brain in a way that good books should--I just wish I felt more satisfied with the conclusion.
The one where Jodahs, the first ooloi born of both human and oankali genes, achieves adulthood and finds a family.This is the most optimistic of the three books, though pointed references to the effects of ooloi scent on human reason make it clear that the author doesn't want us to be able to rest comfortably with the idea that these relationships are entirely consensual.
It was nice to find out the reasons behind some things we'd seen from the very first book (why the oankali tentacles bunch up when they're unhappy, what on earth they think they're doing when they ignore what humans say and give them what they "really" want).
Reading this book again because it is my favourite in the series.
This sounds crazy but an ooloi human construct is one fictional thing I'd like to be!
Still, I want to be an ooloi human construct.
It's really the best book in the series, to look at the perspective of such a fascinating and alien being who can shapeshift and seduces all around it with its smell and general alien powers.
Ooloi can build beings DNA strand by DNA strand, so of course the Oankali are afraid of having a human construct one.
A must read.
It doesn't matter whether or not I like the story she has written, when I'm reading it I'm not reading a book, I'm there in her world, totally transported.
There are a lot of very complicated relationships in this which are explained fully in previous books.
Lilith, a human, gave birth to it, but she is only one of its five parents (note the previously mentioned complicated relationships).
What was great about this story was the way it took things that humans do that you and I would find perfectly understandable and then took a step back to look at them from an alien perspective.
Part of the issue is how complex and disturbing these books are.
So much of my reaction is a vague uneasiness, and trying to sit down and pull that out and see why is not the easiest thing in the world to do.
Of the three in the trilogy, I think Adulthood Rites was my favourite - but is that because it's the most familiar, the most, shall we say, human?Note: The rest of this review has been withdrawn due to the changes in Goodreads policy and enforcement.
You can read why I came to this decision here.In the meantime, you can read the entire review at Smorgasbook
I loved this series! I'm going to miss these characters.
Yet another surprising and unexpected twist in this continually insightful, but creepy, alien story. Definitely another angle in the results of this 'trade' that I wasn't expecting to see appear, I was again expecting a continuation from book two and more about those constructs, but instead I got something different and unexpected....something that, even in this world, was completely new and unique, and even scared our too smart aliens a bit.
As irresistible as a construct ooloi. I want more!
Does anyone have the right to force their way of life/understanding on a people even if it is in the name of love and help?
The Oankali saved the few remaining people on a scorched Earth after the inhabitants tried to wipe each other out.
The Oankali want to trade.
Imagine mating with a tri-gendered gross looking species with mind probing tentacles that can alternately sting you to death or send you to heights of erotic ecstasy...
Imagine having the ability to to produce, to give birth to your own human baby is taken from you unless you agree to this trade.
I think Butler got it right.
A sneaks up behind B and whispers.A: If I don’t have sex with you, I’ll die.
Go away!A: If you would just be still and let me finish having sex with you, I’ll chemically modify you to be the way I like.
How do you feel now?B: If I don’t get to keep having sex with you, I’ll die.
And sex with anyone else would disgust me now.
And I love you deeply.A: By the way, I also cured your cancer while we were having sex.B: You are so awesome.
Jodahs is my favorite of the construct characters. I love that they are so kind and seductive.Also their pronoun 'they' has aged well.
One of the disadvantges of an eBook, sometimes you turn the page and suddenly see "The End".
Yeah, I know there is the percentage thing across the bottom, but with a good book you're really into, you don't pay attention to that.And so I cuddled into the blankets, turned the page ready to see what was next, and nothing.
I want to meet Jodahs' Oankali mates and see their first child.
In "Imago" we meet Lillith's newest child on the verge of metamorphous.
They are a pair of siblings crippled with disease -- a call to the Ooloi's need to heal -- and they are fertile.
Not only that, but you and the remaining humans owe their existence to an alien race called the Oankali.
How would you feel if the price of your salvation is for you and the remaining humans to be breed with these very aliens to establish a new species in what they call the 'Trade'.
As we follow Lilith's new existence, the reader feels her fear at her first meeting with the very alien Oankali.
The story concludes with the life of her offspring, part human, part Oankali.'Wild Seed' has up until now been my favourite book by Octavia E.
This was a solid 4 star trilogy that I really enjoyed.
spoiler alert :Wow, what a hell of an ending. Although it feels happy it's also very bittersweet because of the impending destruction of Earth in about 300 years. What a hell of a contradiction in terms of the destruction , after having been saved after the big war, of Earth! Let alone that human genetic contradiction of hierarchy and intelligence.
This was a satisfying end to Butler's wildly imaginative and deeply human Xenogenesis series. I feel like there is a ton more I could learn from Butler, and we are living in an age that needs this sort of vision of humanity—one that is adaptable, humble, and inherently compassionate. Lucky for me there are still so many of her books left to read.
Even with the presence of the ooloi – who are neither man nor woman – the Oankali’s family system is geared towards reproduction.
The family consists of one Oankali man, one Oankali woman, and one Oankali ooloi to mediate between the two.
It’s unfair to say the Oankali and human families are heteronormative, especially with the emphasis on the ooloi who are neither man nor woman.
They feared it because they knew the ooloi would be the dominant partner in the act, and to have a woman’s role in sex is to be degraded.
The aliens in this series remind me of those people who always stand too close, invading your personal space, or hug you although you've just met.
Like a needy boyfriend who insists on spooning when you just want to sleep without being suffocated, Jodahs clings on to two humans he (well actually it, since it is neither male or female) encounters in the woods.
It's all about his needs, and his assumption that he knows what's best for the humans.
Everyone wants babies (both humans and aliens) and declining to mate is not an option.
