https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/116913.Introduction_to_the_Reading_of_Hegel
Generally speaking, there is a tendency to underestimate the difficulties of satisfaction and to overestimate those of omniscience. Alexandre Kojève is easily one of the most influential thinkers of the last century. This is peculiar, considering that his reputation rests mainly on his interpretation of Hegel, an interpretation which he developed and propounded in a series of lectures in 1933-39. Many who attended these lectures—Maurice Merleau-Ponty and Jacques Lacan, to name just two—went on
By common consent Kojève was a heterodox interpreter of Hegel, mixing Hegel’s ideas with those of Marx, Nietzsche, and Heidegger to create something quite different from what Hegel intended (whatever that was).
This focus on the issue of subjection, alienation, recognition, and work allows Kojève to read Hegel as a quasi-Marxist.
Kojève also has lots of things to say about space, time, mortality, and freedom, most of which is derived from Heidegger and which are totally alien from Hegel’s thought.
Perhaps Kojève’s dazzling obscurity, along with his sexy combination of the works of Marx and Heidegger—the two most influential thinkers in France at that time—allowed him to touch the Zeitgeist, so to speak.
So, while this book was at times revelatory and made me feel like I was this close to "knowing" Hegel's mind, Kojeve always then launched into a 10 page (might as well have been 1000 page) discussion of how we can draw "The Idea" "IN Time" or "OUTSIDE of Time" as a circle, or two circles, or a square with a dildo glued on it, or whatever.
No wonder philosophizing so closely resembles sitting around and doing nothing!Now, I shall read the actual Phenomenology of Spirit and we'll see if Hegel was indeed so impenetrable that he needed an interpreter to torture undergrads for 6 years explaining a book of only 500 pages.This book is really better than I make it sound.
We read this book along with the complete text of Hegel's Phenomenology of the Spirit in a course on the book taught by Henri Mottu, a visiting professor from French Switzerland teaching at Union Theological Seminary in New York City. The class was excellent, the reading of the Phenomenology an excitingly intriguing introduction to years of further study, but Kojeve's interpretation was too tendentiously Marxist (particularly the part on the Master-Slave dialectic) to be taken very seriously. Still, our arguments about it were fun.
So good I wonder if there's even any need to read Hegel (the answer, most likely, is YES, you fool!). The stuff about the end of history and the master-slave dialectic has really stuck with me.
Kojeve ends this note thusly; "This means that, while henceforth speaking in an adequate fashion of everything that is given to him, post-historical Man must continue to detach "form" from "content," doing so no longer in order actively to transform the latter, but so that he may oppose himself as a pure "form" to himself and to others taken as "content" of any sort." This then, of course, is what Kojeve means by the "effectiveness" of `Japanization.' The Sages keep their discursive understanding of the Circularity of the Concept while the `nobility' (exceptions, sophists) unfortunate enough to live at the End of History will continue to struggle, but fundamentally only with(in) themselves.
Kojéve's work is excellent in interpreting and expressing Hegel's often maddening thought.
He equates Geist many times with Man. While Man is a manifestation of Geist, Geist does not equal Man.Man is a working-out of Geist, in and through History, as History.
Man is but a moment, a constituent-element, in the dialectical motion of Geist, for through Man Geist attains self-consciousness.Kojéve interprets Heidegger athropologically as well (as many thinkers of that time were wont to do).
But Kojéve had a very important part to play in the tradition of philosophy and thought, and this book is well worth the read for those struggling through the apparently labrinthian thought (or at least writing) of Hegel.
The most straightforward summary of the Phenomenology giving the materialist interpretation of Hegel. The book is edited by Allan Bloom, the intellectual father of Fukuyama and The End of History.
read this not the Hegel original. if you like it, try hegel
This was a revelation. Thanks to ooiaur for the rec. When I first read Hegel's Phänomenologie, I got nothing. Now, I do get everything. Thanks Mr. Kojève.
I am going to admit straight away that I will never "finish" reading this book becauseit was to dense for me, but not understanding clearly all of it does not mean that I will not keep coming back. The first part of the book is about the development of history through the Hegelian Master / Slave dialectic. Which Kojeve does a fine job of explaining in the first part of the book. Its a summary of the first chapters of the Phenomenology of Spirit. The next parts I found to be interesting but as I
I am going to admit straight away that I will never "finish" reading this book becauseit was to dense for me, but not understanding clearly all of it does not mean that I will not keep coming back.
What I have come to believe though, is that if your main interestis to understand Hegel, I would not put all my stock in it, as this interpretation is among Hegelian scholars considered to be "Kojeve imposing himself on Hegel."With that in mind, I would still recommend the book.
It´s a book you can pick up andput down again.
Read this years ago because Zizek and Deleuze and all the other hip post-everything philosopher types kept referring to "Kojeve's Hegel".
Not Hegel but "Kojeve's Hegel": interesting, but best taken with a grain of salt if you want to understand what Hegel actually means.
Think of Kojeve as Hegel's editor.
And think of 'Kojeve's Hegel' as the version of Hegel that you need to understand to really get where Zizek and Deleuze and many other contemporary philosophers are coming from.
Maybe not what Hegel meant at the time, but--because of Kojeve's work--what he means today.
Rarely have a read a book that I thought was so good and so bad all at the same time.
It's as if for every great idea and interpretation of Hegel here there's a bad one waiting to balance it out a few pages later.
It's definitely worth reading and is an important text in the philosophy of the 20th century, but it's definitely not all great.
I also want to say that there is a great deal of repetition in this text.
The last section in particular could have lost 20 pages without missing anything.
hands-down the most profound reflections on hegel in the 20th C i have yet read--and from a russian frenchman, no less! which is not to say that kojeve gives us hegel's philosophy. kojeve shows us what can be done with hegel rather than what hegel wished to do/teach. if i were to rate this "book" on the basis of the promise contained in its title, i would have to give kojeve an "F"; this is a *horrible* introduction to the reading of hegel. but i imagine the title was chosen with no small irony. that kojeve, always a jokester!
If you have not read the Phenomenology of Spirit, you just have to believe Kojeve.
The problem is that he completely misses the point of the ontological goal of the book, pretends like Hegel thought he was the ultimate self-conscious subjet and an apologetic of Napoleon and the Prusian State, and (worst of all) the Hegelian system was tautological.
Once you read this mess, you’ll see all the myths about Hegel are based on Kojeves poor reading.A disaster of book.
One of the worst.If you want a real perspective on Hegel, read Jean Hyppolite or Stephen Houlgate.
This is more like a 2.5 — reasons include Kojeve's tendency to overcomplicate Hegel, as well as my disagreement with him on a couple of factors of interpretation.
Not a bad work by any means, the first chapters were very good — the later ones felt overly drawn out and a little too exegetical.
I'm no expert on Hegel, so I could be wrong, but I'm not so sure that Kojeve's teleological „End of History“ interpretation is the correct one.
Also I don't think he's right in interpreting Hegel as an atheist.
Easier going than the phenomenology. Whether that makes it a good introduction, I'm not sure, as Kojeve is clearly indebted to other thinkers like Heidegger, and not afraid to declare his suffered with Hegel on e.g. dialectics in nature.
Another important detail: Kojève believes that the Last Man, which arises (and creating) a Homogeneous and Universal state, necessarily atheistic, since he finally (after thousands of years of Struggle and Work) understands that history is a process exclusively materialistc, devoid of external Other (anthropomorphic God or Nature) - Hegelian "Weltgeist" is the "Geist" of a human, not divine, being.
I really enjoyed this book a lot. It pushed me to finish the Phenomenology earlier as I would refer to it after reading significant parts of the book. I learned about Kojeve via my Lacan readings. I really enjoyed this book a lot, and it is very helpful for my path as a philosopher becoming a counsellor. Teach psychoanalysts how to be. Hegelian psychoanalysts. This is amazing work.
In the first part, Kojève is concerned with rendering accessible Hegel's master-slave dialectic and giving a mythical account of it as the first meeting of two persons.
My interpretation of Kojève's mythologized account was that the encounter is supposed to represent the inevitable power struggle that happens between peoples with competing interests.
Kojève spends quite a few pages developing the master-slave dialectic theme and drawing out its consequences.
I was hoping Kojève would give us some insight into understanding Hegel's use of language, but such insights were mostly operational (learning through use rather than explicitly examining the words to get at their meanings).
The chapter on the Master-Slave was pretty good, though sort of sketchy due to Kojeve's Stalinist (?) perspective and a literal appeal to the killing and death of the masters.
This sort of politic also came out again in the final chapter on Hegel's dialectical method (which also gave me insight) with the claim that Man distinguishes himself as Man through Fighting and Work.Anyhow, despite my disagreements with Kojeve's conclusions, this book gave me clarification and clarity on the background and hidden dimensions within the Phenomenology.
certain parts being about Napoleon, despite him never being mentioned by name or action).
Kojeve's commentary on Hegel's *Phenomenology* is a brilliant example of what Emerson termed "creative reading"--a skill cultivated by far too few.
One reads Kojeve to discover a living Hegel; most people are content to know that the man and his system are dead.
As a devotee of Kierkegaard in my youth, I was among those who felt that Hegel's ghost was best avoided.
The system I can do without (I remain Kierkegaardian in that sense); but the man, his insights, his intelligence...the *Phenomenology* is itself required reading for those aspects alone.
Then read Kojeve for ideas about what to do with them.
Engage the PhG with your own mental armaments first, then consult this Introduction which is more of a commentary and elaboration. Kojeve is quite clear and takes time to emphasize his main points. The notorious End of History was much overstated and most premature but Kojeve makes a competant case for it. And whether the system of Absolute Knowldege must necessarily be airtight and infallible or else sink into worthless relativism is still debatable. Although not without its flaws both intrinsic and historical, no serious Hegelian (right or left) can excusably omit its study.
Best appropriation of all time - he gets a bit absurd when he calls Hegel an atheist. I remember talking with a colleague at the American Philosophical Association who worked on Hegel. I asked him if he read Kojeve's work and he said - it is not Hegel there, its Kojeve putting himself into Hegel...and basically I would add, ruining Hegel for the 20th century (Derrida, Foucault, Bataille, Deleuze, all had to rehash this guy to become made men, so did they really understand Hegel at all? - probably not)...
I was reading this book for 9 months. It is because there's so much in it... If I could, I would give 10 stars for this one. Hegel + Marx + Heidegger + Existentialism + ... = the finest philosophical version of the Reality. Don't think this leads to Marxism. This is Hegel actualized by Marx, but it's still Hegel with all the consequences. Excellent book which I would recommend to beginners to see what real philosophy is all about. Read just this one book and you'll get everything you have ever wanted from philosophy.
Is it just me or does Kojeve go on and on and on about Master/Slave stuff? Hyppolite's somewhat more studious, and in my opinion more subtle reading of Hegel, seems (so far) somewhat preferable as an account of Phenomenology of Spirit--particularly as he doesn't want to suggest that the end of history (or the beginning of the end) was the Battle of Jena. Kojeve is, however, almost compulsively readable and lucid.Oh and I think he and I got different versions of the section on Antigone.
Here it is! A collection of Kojeve's lectures that influenced so many of the now-famous French thinkers of the mid- to late-20th century. They're really clear, and very interesting, though I wish that some were more detailed (like the overview of the first six chapters of the Phenomenology, especially the part about the universal, and the role of speech in the formation of subjectivity).
No doubt, Kojève is a brilliant thinker. His exposition of Hegel's Phenomenology is clear, consistent and brings thought-provoking questions. However, if you think the end of history talk, fundamental for Hegelian wisdom, is just unrealistic assumption, the whole Hegel's totality turns into an illusion. The never ending attempt of immanentizing the eschaton.
After reading, I feel much closer to understanding the Hegelian dialectic, if not 100%. It's a collection of lectures, so there's some repetition, and the last lecture in the book has pretty much everything that's in the other lectures plus more, so you can just read that one.
Should probably write a review of this soon, it's a fantastic (mis)interpretation of Hegel.
worth revisiting/completing...
