https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/175671.Oathbreakers
Oathbreakers continues the story of Tarma and Kethry several years after Oathbound left off.
Tarma and Kethry head north to Rethwallen, Idra's home country, to find out what's become of their captain.
When he turns up in later stories he's still disabled, and I think that might be pretty important in terms of representation.
This may have been the book to establish my love of mutual pining, come to think of it-- either this or Arrow's Fall, but I can't remember which I read first.
So if you're planning on reading one of these books, just stick with Oathbreakers, it's much better.
While I can't help that I love these characters and world......again with the raping!
In Oathbreakers, the two main characters are not raped (this time).
All in all, there's very little violence against women in this one.
The rape and violence against women with this one is the plotline.
(view spoiler)[The MCs are trying to discover the whereabouts of their Mercenary Captain, the Princess Idra - or what happened to her.
The details of what happened to her are...the typical things that men do to women they want to hurt and break.
(hide spoiler)]
Wow. I actually gave a Mercedes Lackey book two stars?
The thing is, I actually finished this over a week ago, and yet I felt no need to review it, think about it and almost no desire to start another book.
I also hate how everything they do or say is rationalized for the reader, as if we can't work it out ourselves.No, I didn't actually go on and read book three which is yet again odd for me.
I suppose it is possible to love an author but just not love EVERYTHING they write.
In the course of this, Kethry comes into her own as she grows in her magical abilities and also finds the man who will become her partner and help rebuild Tarma's clan.Some interesting developments in this story but some puzzles also - in 'By the Sword' the two characters tell Kerowyn that magic does not work in Valdemar - yet in this story they journey there and it very much does work, even if they are staying fairly near the border.

2018 - This is probably the least episodic of the three books.
And affect Valdemar's history many years later (yeah, read more of these books).
ETA: I've just been reading some Regency Romances from Mary Balogh, and it is SO refreshing that those books have so very few typo/spelling/etc errors.
Wonder how Ms Balogh's publisher manages that???-------------------------------------3/31/17 - this is probably the most stand-alone of the three Tarma and Kethry books.
So the three books that Ms Lackey has published are most welcome, as a place to keep re-reading these good stories.2015 - This is a fascinating long-form tale of Tarma and Kethry.
This story revolves around the disappearance of Idra, commander of the Sunhawks mercenaries.
As well as the heart-clenching bond all of the Sunhawks feel for Idra.
Again this is a fantastic fantasy novel.
Filled with humor, though this story has a great deal of darkness and a fair amount of sadness.
There is a surprise romance, though it is not the focus of the story.
The book may have been published over twenty years ago, but it still does a far better job of female representation and diversity than most modern fantasy novels.
(3.5-ish? Clearly the 5 star system is not precise enough for me!)A solid fantasy adventure with excellent main characters. I have a few quibbles with the style and the pacing (too much internal dialogue, a few aspects of plot that could have been expanded upon), but on the whole it's enjoyable. And it's a relief to me, to find a childhood favorite that stands the test of time!

Man, I don't know what it is about me and revenge stories!
Well, to be fair, in this case it's less "revenge" and more "vengence"...
which, in my mind, is not quite the same.Another one of Mercedes Lackey's Valdemar books, this one deals with two women (Tarma and Kethry) who are sworn in an oathbound sisterhood.
I won't get in to the vengeance here, that's up to you to discover!An interesting note here (to me anyway..) is that Tarma is the only literary character that I find "attractive".
While I can (and often do) drool over TV or movie characters, I never have the same reaction to books.
I liked the events of this one much better than the events of The Oathbound. Spying and intrigue are much more to my taste than demon rapists. There was rape in this one, too, which was disappointing, but it wasn't anywhere near as bad as the first book.Jadrek is a great character, Kethry's magical development is awesome, Tarma continues to be the best. I like travel stories, especially ones that involve surviving the elements. Also, there were Heralds! Well, one Herald.
Kethry and Tarma join a mercenary company, go to Valdemar, summon Goddesses, and work a whole lot of magic.
They also manage to discuss magic with a Herald well after Vanyel's time and well before Selenay's reign, but I think I can justify the inconsistency in the series by imagining there were no air sprites that close to the Rethwellian border on that particular day.
While having read the first Vows and Honor book is a definite prerequisite, this trilogy is shaping up to be fine fantasy fun.
Familiarity with the other Valdemar novels is not required.
The second in the Vows & Honor trilogy, to continue fleshing out my #readinghistory. This one really deepened the story of Tarma and Kethry - and led us more into Tarma's fraught history. I love the friendship between these two heroines, which set many of my ideas about the kinds of female relationships I wanted to write someday.
Another comfort reread, another Velgarth novel. Lackey's adventurer turned mercenary duo, Kethry the mage and Tarma the Warrior, take on a corrupt and murderous king who has violated his oaths to his country, his people, his gods and his kin. Lots of action, and one of the sweetest romances Lackey's written.
Well, I appear to be rereading all the Valdemar books I own. Okay then.
The Sunhawks tribe, and especially Idra’s close friends Tarma and Kethry, go to investigate the kingdom and see what they can find out.
In comparison with The Oathbound, there are more mage battles than sword battles in Oathbreakers.
I missed the sword battles Tarma had in The Oathbound.
There is a particular poem that resonated with me about Jadrek, the court archivist, and his being stuck in a library studying lore without having the opportunity to live life, while age took its toll; waiting for someone to save him and put him into a situation where he can be useful.
I liked this one a lot more than Oathbound.
I enjoyed watching them try to figure out what was going on with Idra and getting their revenge.
This was all one cohesive plot instead of stories put together, which is more my style.
I don't mind episodes or short stories, but for the most part I prefer novels and one long adventure.
This book felt like that.
I'm glad I read it and will have to admit that I've grown fond of Tarma and Kethry and now I'm off to Kerowyn.
I got interested in these books by the music that I found on youtube based on the books.
Excellent book on it's own, but you'll definitely want to read the 1st book Oathbound though, or you'll feel lost. The Vows & Honor trilogy is an excellent stand alone though set in the Valdemarian world, there are things in this trilogy that are referred to in several of the other books in the over all series.
Second book in the series. Like how the author uses the story of Kethry and Tarma to move away from the standard use of women in science fiction: they are the warriors, the rescuers-not the victims, the foils. Continued re-read of Mercedes Lackey.
I liked the second in the Vows and Honor series even more than the first! Mercedes Lackey is so talented at creating wonderful characters who you love and fall in love with and just want the best for. This was a great story and I can’t wait to see how things wrap up in volume 3!
Better written than the first, I started to care about the characters in this one.
4 stars
ExcellentSo much more a complete story than the first. Very satisfying ending. I look forward to Jardrek's role in their clan.
A continuation of The Oathbound and a better told story in general I think. I feel like the pace is a little faster and the plot is a little tighter.
Two strong women as "heroes" make for lively reading. One is compelled to cheer them on in their various quests. I enjoyed their adventures.
amazing book every time a major plot point happens it brings tears because it is so well written.
Also, we spent like a hot second in Valdemar and it really just cemented for me that I'm reading these books because of Heralds and Companions...
At least in this case it was off screen and the narrative treated like the horrific even that it is, instead of previous books which most characters just resignedly sighed as though sexual violence was inevitable.
You're still on watch, Lackey, but this was far better than the last book.Also, the romance in here was cute--and featuring a disabled character!--which I really liked.
Something else I think Lackey struggles with is the climax and denouement...
Tarma and Kethry have joined up with a famous mercenary group in this book, and I enjoyed reading about their adventures at war and on their journey to find their missing captain.
Warrl is as enjoyable in this book as he was in the first.I liked Jadrek, Kethry’s love interest.
Most authors would have us believe this is typical of couples in the early stage, but I don’t think that’s true.I’m glad Lackey brought a Herald into a Tarma and Kethry story.
Tarma and Kethry are the exception to this, but I still enjoyed the Herald prince.
Considering this is the second book in the series, I like this one a lot.
Regardless, this is a thrilling 2nd book in the series.Tarma and Kethry, Oathbound sisters, enter the Sunhawk mercenary company, commanded by Captain Idra, who gave up her place in line for the throne in order to lead this growing band.
Idea is called back to her home country of Rethwellan in order to settle a dispute between her brothers, Stefan and Raschar, leaving Sewen second in command.
I was enthused to see a lot more mentions of Valdemar and even Valdemar's own first in line to the throne, Herald Roald.
Where the first book of the trilogy was obviously originally a collection of short stories strung together by only a light touch of editing, this book was one long story, complete and full, and therefore much more entertaining and devoid of the problems that I found in Oathbound.Tarma and Kethry became much more interesting to me in this novel than they were in the previous, and I suspect no small part of that was due to the first book's sloppy editing.
