https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/112525.Winter_s_Bone
and it wasn't love at first sight (which might make the experience even better; i didn't love winesberg, ohio right out of the gate either) - i had some reservations from the first page, when the poetic quality of the language seemed forced and i wasn't going to deal with 200 pages of: "three halt haggard houses formed a kneeling rank on the far creekside...", or "Ree, brunette and sixteen, with milk skin and abrupt green eyes..." but except for a few instances of striving-to-be-musical prose (heidi klum would say "we question your taste level" and brad becker would say "i'll taste her level"), this is utterly gorgeous, and is already on my mental hall of fame list.of course it brings up a list of names in my head - they are unavoidable comparisons: ron rash, cormac mccarthy, castle freeman jr, - people who write about misbegotten people deep in the hard-lined appalachian/ozark regions without romanticizing the harsh realities of survival.
Reading this book made me realize how  FRIGGIN' SHELTERED  my life has been. To me, Winter's Bone reads just like a nightmarish dystopia. To millions of people, apparently, it's life.Ree Dolly is incredibly tough and hardened by life - much more than you'd expect from a sixteen-year-old girl.  "She could be beat with a garden rake and never cry and had proved that twice before Mamaw saw an unsmiling angel pointing from the treetops at dusk and quit the bottle. She would never cry where her tears
But this short novel is not as much about Ree's quest to figure out what happened to her missing father - she and the reader already have a good idea what happened to Jessup Dolly - as it is about showing a fascinating albeit harrowing picture of the cruel, backwards, meth-ruled world of the Ozarks.
After all, she is also very lonely - with her mother pretty much checked out of this world, and her best friend trapped in a marriage with no love but a little baby, and Ree misses her so very very much.
4.5 stars, and feeling thankful that I live where I live - because I sure as hell would NOT be able to survive in Ree Dolly's world.
In this crime thriller set in the Ozarks, 16-year-old Ree Dolly goes on a manhunt to locate her meth-cooking father, dead or alive.
She needs to find him because he put their house up for collateral with the bailbondsmen, and he's due in court soon.
The Ozark atmosphere is convincing, Woodrell's prose is spare and poetic, and--most important of all--Ree Dolly is a great person to get to know.
(I half hope--and half dread--that this may be the first in a series.
I want to hear more of Ree, but I enjoyed this book so much I don't want an inferior sequel to spoil my experience).
Posted at Shelf Inflicted This short novel has many things I enjoy in dark fiction – quirky, dysfunctional characters, a determined heroine struggling to survive and keep her family together, a bleak setting, a sense of hopelessness, people who pay the price for their bad choices.
I have never been to the Ozarks and have no idea how accurately this story portrays the region and its inhabitants, though I’m sure these characters really exist somewhere.
At times, it felt overwritten, taking me out of the story.
I also felt it was too brief, making the characters and relationships too remote.
I grew up in a rural area with no shortage of poor rednecks so I thought I knew about country poverty, but the people I knew with their decayed farm houses and trailers lived like Donald Trump compared to the backwoods clan of hill folk in this book.Ree Dolly is a 16-year old girl who dropped out of high school to take care of her crazy mother and two younger brothers.
Ree has no choice but to start asking her extended family if they know where her father is, but this is dangerous because the closed mouth rednecks don’t like people asking questions, even if they’re kin.
In Winter’s Bone this is a lost country, pointing simultaneously to the origins of the real America and a not unlikely future.Woodrell describes a world of neo-liberal, personal independence - every man for himself and God help the sap who asks for help - a real Jeffersonian agricultural democracy.
And if you don’t exist, it’s really difficult to find you much less prosecute you.
Identity after all is a sacred concept, so must be protected against intrusion and pollution by foreigners.Cultural isolation has generated a unique mystical tradition of origin, that there existed a pure culture that has been lost in mysterious circumstances.
The literary ambitions of the novel are impossible to tamper down, but rather than overwhelm the story or characters, the prose brings them into the light with both menace and wonder.Set in Missouri, in the Rathlin Valley near the Arkansas state line, the story introduces sixteen-year-old Ree Dolly as her father Jessup, a gifted meth cook out on bond from his latest arrest, leaves home never to return.
And yes, I realize that Everdeen has to duel to the death in an arena filled with poisonous jabberjays or whatever, but there is a strong sense of reality pervading Winter’s Bone that makes it far more bone chilling.Speaking of bones, the imagery in this book is amazing: brittle bones of dead wildlife decaying on the cold ground, the cracking bones of one’s frozen fingers after exposure to the harsh winter air, rock hard bones from imagining Jennifer Lawrence with an archery bow.
Now, on to the meat of the review.Winter's Bone is a lot more than I was expecting when I picked this book up.
Daniel Woodrell's prose is something to behold, so much better than I was picturing when I picked up the book.While the mysterious whereabouts of Ree's father are the central mystery of the book, the way of life of hillbilly crank dealers in the Ozarks is the real star of the show.
The backwoods life isn't pretty and Woodrell shows it warts and all.Ree's a tough girl, confronting the worst the back country has to offer and never waivering in her search for her father.
In fact the plot is totally 5 star – the motivations and machinations of all the characters make complete sense and are a real heartbreaker.
What nearly defeats this chunk of hick lit is Daniel Woodrell’s prose style.
He thinks he’s the new improved perfect blend of Annie Proulx, William Faulkner and maybe ole Cormac M and some others like that.
Here, Ree is given some real bad news:There was a sound in Ree’s head like a world of zippers zipping shut, and a sudden tilt factor engaged every place she looked.
Blood is thicker than water.This book turned out way better than it started. I was going to rate it a 2 and then it turned around and picked up. A story of survival and family. A story about one girl's determination to find her father and clear her name so she could raise her brothers.Not too shabby. A bit like Ma and Pa Kettle meets Deliverance if you catch my drift....
I dismissed this book out of hand for years because I had a bunch of weird assumptions about it, none of which were based in anything even resembling reality, or the very encouraging reviews of it I actually did read several years ago.
Apparently, I don't listen real good-like, which I also partially blame on the fact that with certain reviewers, I often don't even pay much attention to the title of the book they are reviewing, but just dive right into it because I enjoy their review-writing styles so much.
Winter's Bone: Daniel Woodrell's Tale of When Blood is thicker than waterWhen I was a boy we had no Interstates.
He doesn't tell his daughter they're going to lose their home.Jessup leaves behind a wife, either insane or in an advancing stage of dementia, two boys, and his seventeen year old daughter Ree. When you're a meth cooker's daughter you grow up hard and you grow up fast.
Ree thought Sonny never looked that much like Daddy.Winter swirls through the mountains and valleys of the Missouri Ozarks.
The guilty always leave the innocent behind.Daniel Woodrell knows the Missouri Ozarks.
Beautifully written, this is a simple story about survival, winter and bones.
It's in the Ozarks and winter is bone-cracking cold.
We open the book to a hint of flurries, and venison hanging in trees to "sweeten that meat to the bone", and we meet Ree Dolly, our tough teen heroine.
The title "Winter's Bone" for me summoned a cold, terrible image: blue, white, visceral, and hard.
There's the olden Dolly kin "who had so many bones that broke, broke and mended, broke and mended wrong, so they limped through life on the bad-mend bones for year upon year until falling dead in a single evening from something that sounded wet in the lungs".
Man, O Man, can this guy write.
This is a very impressive novel.
Here is language that soars, home-spun lyricisms, trailer-trash poetry, a book chock-full of crackhead sonnet riffs; Woodrell is a virtuoso of the first degree.
In Ree Dolly, the teenage protagonist he has conjured up, he has invented somebody you'll remember gladly until your dying days.
Loved the book.
Love Woodrell.
Loved Ree. Sheee-it, folks, read it for yourself and see.
You’ll love it too.Note: Thanks to Ben Harrison for recovering this review.
Horrendous, goopy, writers' workshop writing."Moons of ache glowed in spaces of her meat and when she moved the moons banged together and stunned." (Are sentences required to make sense in "contemporary fiction?")"Moans droned from her chest of bones.
Was "catapulted" too literal?The thought that instructors are actually encouraging soupy messes like this is dispiriting, and one wants now to read things that are cleansing, purifying, bracing tonics, literary enemas - Willa Cather, Sir Walter Scott, Jackie Collins, the minutes of the winter meeting of the Financial Accounting Standards Board.
But 17-year-old Ree Dolly hopes to escape to the Army next year, if she can track down her Daddy.
I highly recommend it.Favorite Descriptions"Mom sat in her chair beside the potbelly and the boys sat at the table eating what Ree fed them.
Long, dark, and lovely she had been, in those days before her mind broke and the parts scattered and she let them go.""Ree's grand hope was that these boys would not be dead to wonder by age twelve, dulled to life, empty of kindness, boiling with mean.
Ok, I read Winter's Bone on D and Karen's recommendations, so I’m posting links to their reviews before I start:http://www.goodreads.com/review/show/...andhttp://www.goodreads.com/review/show/...Winter’s Bone is a hell of a book in that A) the novel is fantastic, and B) it's set in an American version of hell.
Ree lives in a terrifying section of the Ozarks that takes on the character of a mythical underworld with its own set of unwritten codes and rules, of which the two most important are “don’t snitch” and “don’t steal”.
This book made me want to never drive through the Ozarks again.
Characters like Thump and Uncle Teardrop and even Ree’s Mom add a depth to this story that brings it past a “missing-person” story or a “murder mystery.” From the moment Ree takes it upon herself to find out the truth about her father, to the moment she has the emotional revelation at the end of the story with Uncle Teardrop, this bleak novel will keep you mesmerized, wanting to turn pages as fast as you can until you have reached the staggering and horrifying conclusion.
When Ree comes to, she and a girl named Megan exchange these words:Megan squatted, patted Ree’s face, and said, “Whatever are we to do about you, baby girl?
Because good people are boring outside of the real world.So it was a bit of a surprise to get knocked arse over teakettle off my high horse of arch cynicism by this mean, gaunt and big-hearted novel by Daniel Woodrell, the esteemed bard of anti-bucolicism in the Ozarks.
Winter’s Bone relates the story of 16-year old Ree Dolly and her quest to find her missing father—an all-around fuck-up who is good for one thing, and that is making meth—before he misses his court date and the gov’ment takes possession of the family’s house and land, which good ole dad was kind enough to put up so he could make bail and then split.
Never ask for what ought to be offered.” Ree is an old soul, mature beyond her years, forced to grow up fast and smart in a world that has teeth and a taste for blood.
He wants us to see the ugly, to feel it in our bones, but for all of that there is tremendous beauty here as well, not just in the prose that SINGS but in the simplicity of a proud people who do what they must to survive in an environment that does not forgive weakness or stupidity lightly.I cannot recommend this book enough.
Ive rarely hurt for and hoped for a character as much as I did Ree. Sweet Pea, for all time.
The main character here is written as tough and tender and backed into a hard place, and it is terrific to see a strong female protagonist in a work of Southern grit lit.
The descriptions of blighted characters, stark country side, and danger are phenomenal - but it is the sweetness this girl feels for her loved ones and her courage that will make you root for her.
Sixteen-year-old Ree Dolly lives for the day when she will be old enough to join the Army and escape the grinding economic and intellectual poverty of her life in the Missouri Ozarks where her extended family lives by a variety of illegal pursuits, mostly involving the manufacture and distribution of methamphetamines and crank cocaine.
If he fails to appear in court a week later, as will almost certainly be the case, Ree, her mother and brothers will lose everything.
And when Ree ignores repeated warnings to abandon her search, she pays a fearsome price.Woodrell paints a vivid and heart-wrenching portrait of life in the Ozarks that has the ring of a desperate truth.
In this thriller set in the harsh Ozark Mountains, 17-year-old Ree Dolly is determined to find her father.
Everyone living in the poor mountain community, from friends to (distant) family members, tell her to shut up and don’t cause trouble, but Ree can’t listen: she just has too much to lose.
It’s bleak and grim and although you’ll love Ree’s unbending spirit, your heart will break for the price she has to pay to discover the truth about her missing father.
The story is therefore pretty scary and emotional and can sometimes feel quite hopeless, but reading Ree’s conversations with her brothers, Gail, or her uncle will give your strength.
I'm not feeling like a full review today so I'll limit this to only a few comments.
*I have no doubt in my mind that life in some areas of the Ozarks is as brutal as it's depicted in this book.
Poverty, drug use, tight family units, and long-held multi-generational grudges are just part of the miserable lives examined here.
*I couldn't help but feel for 16 year old Ree who just wanted to join the army and get the hell out of there.
It's hard to escape family.
*Recommended for those with the wherewithal to stomach the brutalities of this rural, mountain life.
She’s got gumption, this girl, that’s for sure, but I don’t know if I’d say she “kicks ass” the way most reviewers do.
Prior to that there’s a lot of wandering amongst the backwoods and remembering of times past mingled with fears of times to come as Ree searches for her father, but it’s not until things start coming to a head that I really found myself compelled by the story.
Woodrell is by no means a bad writer, but I do think his prose would have benefitted by being turned down a notch or two from time to time, if only to let those high-flown metaphors that did work shine all the more.Still, a very good read.
I did the unforgivable.I saw the movie prior to reading the book.I know, the shame.The admirable strength of Ree held together not only her family but also this book.  Never. Never ask for what ought to be offered. It might be Jennifer Lawrence, but Ree does remind me of a harder, prouder Katnis. Ree's father posted bail and ran off, leaving her to tend her young brothers and her disconnected mother. The house is in danger and the food is nearly out yet her back is stiff, her jaw is square. She
I did the unforgivable.I saw the movie prior to reading the book.I know, the shame.The admirable strength of Ree held together not only her family but also this book.
Never ask for what ought to be offered.
It might be Jennifer Lawrence, but Ree does remind me of a harder, prouder Katnis.
Ree's father posted bail and ran off, leaving her to tend her young brothers and her disconnected mother.
The house is in danger and the food is nearly out yet her back is stiff, her jaw is square.
I’m not sure.The story centers on Ree, a sixteenish year old girl who takes charge of her two brothers when her mother loses her mind and is cast to the rocking chair humming old dance tunes and her Dad goes MIA, skipping his court hearing and leaving his family in jeopardy of losing their home.
Bleak.Yet, Ree’s Self Talk doesn’t have her giving up and going to that world of butterflies and warm beaches that her mother frequents from her rocking chair… instead it has her risking her life to find out what happened to her father in order to save the family farm (so to speak.)But, what I find interesting is how her close(r) kin react.
Whether drugs and alcohol mellow the sharp edges, or simply precipitate the next clash is debatable.One night when Ree was still a bantling Dad had gotten crossways with Buster Leroy Dolly and been shot in the chest clear out by Twin Forks River.
(p38)I was carried away by the use of language and am annoyed that I can't find the passage in which Ree, our hero, walks up a snowy hill described in staccato words that become little feet kicking in and pushing the reader up the sharp slope.
It seemed like your typical Oprah book; I felt like I was reading "Cold Mountain," "Peace Like a River," and several others blurred into one indistinguishable mass.
Everyone raved about the heroine, Ree Dolly, who felt like a cliche to me and a pretty one-dimensional one at that -- young, tough, heroic hick-town girl, like Renee Zellweger's character in "Cold Mountain," on an odyssey to save her family, blah blah blah.
I guess young, tough heroines are a good trend after the simpering antifeminist ones of yesterday but they're starting to be just that -- a trend.
