https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3181564-the-housekeeper-and-the-professor
In this touching story, she creates a family out of a housekeeper, her ten year old son, and the math professor whose cottage they were asked to tend to.
This gap is also bridged by Root and the Professor's shared love of the Hanshin Tigers baseball team.
Being a mother of a boy close in age to Root who loves both baseball and math as well as one who has seen older family members succumb to memory loss, I felt like I could relate to the characters in this story.
Both books then explore the relationship between memory and feelings in the victim - on the residual emotional bonds the victim maintains from his past, as well as their ability to create new relationships of intimacy.Ogawa's amnesiac is even more disabled than Krauss's because the Professor's condition is anterograde amnesia which inhibits the creation of any new memories.
Although her mathematics Professor has a blank memory from his early 30's, his emotions are still stirred by the son of his housekeeper with whom he immediately feels an intense relationship of care.
Did I want to read about a Professor with a memory span of 80 minutes and the Housekeeper who assists him?
This story of memory, math, building a pseudo-family where no relationship has existed before is full of love and compassion.
I could feel my resistance wearing down while reading and a subtle understanding of why others love the world of numbers beginning to grow.
The Professor, and the housekeeper, would be pleased.Highly recommended for its sensitive treatment of relationships.Addendum 1/5/13: I realize that I truly love this book and it has only risen in my esteem over time.
“The Professor loved prime numbers more than anything in the world.”  "To me, they were just numbers.” says the new housekeeper. “”What’s your shoe size?” This was the Professor’s first question, once I had announced myself as the new housekeeper. No bow, no greeting.”The professor had been involved in a motor vehicle accident, and now his memory is only of the last eighty minutes. Every morning the housekeeper introduces herself. Every morning  ”He would ask my shoe size or telephone number, o
“The Professor loved prime numbers more than anything in the world.”
"To me, they were just numbers.” says the new housekeeper.
“”What’s your shoe size?” This was the Professor’s first question, once I had announced myself as the new housekeeper.
Every morning the housekeeper introduces herself.
Numbers comforted him; that is how he communicated.
The professor is able to convey this love of mathematics to the housekeeper and her son nicknamed "Root”, and he is able to inject fun into teaching them some basics.
The professor is very protective of Root, and a lovely relationship builds between them as they discuss mathematics and share their love of baseball.Ogawa's writing is a delight
Amicable numbers – pair of keyrings Nerd Romance (https://mathsgear.co.uk/products/amic...)Not that kind of love story, but a sad, sweet story about an unlikely friendship between a brilliant mathematician, his housekeeper and her son.
He loves math, numbers, children and his favorite baseball team, the Hanshin Tigers.
His favorite player is the legendary strikeout pitcher, Yutaka Enatsu.
He is shown here with mathematician rock star Terence Tao in 1985.Image: Grace Tao (https://curiosity.com/topics/terence-...)The Hanshin Tigers, one of Japan’s oldest professional teams, and Yutaka Enatsu (born 15 May 1948) feature prominently in the story.
A wonderful, heart-warming story about unlikely friendships....and math...and baseball!
I decided to grab this one for my Japanese reading challenge for 2018 and it was the perfect story to begin reading.
I was at one time fascinated by numbers, going to the highest level of math courses in college, and working for my college math professor.
Nerd!)The story is of the friendship of the housekeeper and the professor.
The professor had an accident some number of years ago and his memory only lasts 80 minutes.
A unlikely friendship that lasts a lifetime for the three of them.I listened to this one via audio and it was wonderful.
The Housekeeper and the Professor  is a charming and enjoyable novella about eponymous Professor of mathematics who due to accident years earlier suffers from peculiar form of amnesia and while he remembers everything from the past his current memory lasts only eighty minutes, and as a reminder of this fact he has fitting note pinned to his suit.
In mathematics is order and logic that I admire and mystery and beauty that regretfully I not always can comprehend.You could think that being limited to the world of numbers only the Professor is excluded from the outside world.
She becomes daily housekeeper to a former maths professor whose head injury in 1975 means he only remembers the most recent 80 minutes, plus things before 1975, nearly 20 years before the story is set (~1992).Numbers are now the professor's life.
When he discovers his housekeeper has a son, he is adamant that the boy must come to the house after school and in the holidays: he adores children, and thinks their needs (or his exaggerated perception of them) are more important than anything else.
The fact his relationship with the housekeeper and her son develops to a deep bond implies a degree of memory and benefit.
The class laughed till the tears flowed down the hallways.Okay, so I was 15 years old then, and a little bit immature to have Dennis as role model, but hey, who needs to grow up fast?
(hide spoiler)]Reading this book, about a housekeeper and her little son, and a brilliant mentally-disabled professor after a severe head injury, brought the joy of numbers back.
Very soon the professor managed to instill a love of maths in the little boy (rekindle it in me as well!), and brought the magic of this ancient old knowledge alive.
I set it aside for WIT month this year and was happy to pull it back out.The housekeeper is a single parent, trying to make enough to live on, and the professor is a mathematician with a failing memory.
But he can still think in math, so that is how he connects to the people around him.He refers to the housekeeper's son as Root because of the shape of his hair, the flat top of the square root symbol.I'm not much for charming books but I was still charmed by this.
This is a beautifully-written, elegant little book about an old man, a maths professor, his housekeeper and her young son.
The housekeeper has her own problems but finds fulfillment in the relationship, ever renewed, between her son and the professor and her growing love for mathematics.
Certainly I've never read anything about logarithms, mathematical conjectures and proofs that I ever even understood, let alone enjoyed.
But now I know a bit more about maths, and wish I'd had a teacher who could have shown me the magic rather than the grind behind numbers.
This tale charms us with the friendship that develops between a young housekeeper and her 12-year old son with an elderly recluse and former mathematics professor.
The Professor takes special pleasure in treating her son to tales of the wonders of numbers, such as the weird features of Imaginary numbers (one based on the square root of a negative number).
The Housekeeper breaks the rules of her agency by bringing Root to her job each day after his school, as the pleasures of her son’s bond with the Professor clearly enhances the quality of both their lives.
This was interesting as well because it allowed Ogawa to explore, with a very light touch, what "time" is made up of- her answer seems to be a combination of objects, people, and the sort of pop culture that connects you with a wider world, the famous figures that help you see time passing in your own life.The housekeeper's tale is self-effacing and modest, with only the barest of facts given to let the reader know why her relationship with the Professor is possible, and why it means so much to her.
3.5 StarThe Housekeeper + The Professor by Yoko Ogawa is a heart-warming story about a housekeeper, a professor and the housekeeper’s ten year old son but also and most importantly a story about what it means to live in the present, and about friendships, family and respect and a little Math thrown in for good measure."He is a brilliant maths professor who lives with only eighty minutes of short-term memory.
While it is a quick read it has a slow release plot and a story that your will read with care and perhaps re-read some chapters twice.However I was disappointed a little in the sense of time and location of the novel.
This is a quietly wonderful book.
When I was reading it I really liked it.
Now that some time has passed I still think of it, and any book that I still remember months after reading is a book that deserves 5 stars.
Although there is some advanced math in the story the author doesn't expect the reader to understand all of it.
This is a character driven book, and Ogawa does a beautiful job of fleshing out all three characters and making them real.
This is a book that will linger with the reader long after the last page is turned.
کتابی که نشر آموت منتشر کنه و کیهان بهمنی ترجمه کنه حتما باید خونده بشه!!کتاب موضوع متفاوتی داره. فصل های اول خیلی کشش داره ولی از جایی به بعد روند داستان دیگه یکسان میشه.نه از اون دسته کتاب هاییه که بشه گفت جالب نبودن نه از اون دسته ای که بگی فوق العاده بودن، به نظرم حداقل برای یه بار خوندن کتاب خوبیه. البته که بسته به سلیقه آدم ها نظرات متفاوته شاید برای کسی که به ریاضی علاقه مندتر از من باشه کتاب جالب تری باشه.
The Housekeeper is hired to cook and keep house for a Professor of mathematics who had a traumatic brain injury after a car accident.
The Housekeeper and her ten year old son interact quite well with the professor since they all are enthusiastic about baseball which has lots of mathematical statistics.
The Professor loves children, and enjoys sharing his knowledge of the beauty of mathematics while bringing the subject down to their level.
The Housekeeper and her son were adept at making a personal connection with the Professor, even if he could not remember it the next day.
Two evenings later, in Nara, we got caught up in a small parade on the main street and as it ended, a young man straddling a bicycle caught up with us to ask if we were Americans and, next, if we knew American baseball.
(I soon understood his "of course" simply meant "yes".) His favorite Japanese team was the Hanshin Tigers, so I mentioned Murton, and he gave some other names of Americans playing in Japan.
I bring this up not only because in this book the Hanshin Tigers are the favorite team of the professor and the son of the housekeeper; but because baseball (along with mathematics) is the way the housekeeper and her son communicate with the professor.
I’m not sure on which page I fell in love with the wrinkled, snowy-haired Professor in his rumpled suit with the scrap-paper reminders pinned all over it (the most important one being the note that reads “My memory lasts only eighty minutes”).
It’s like copying truths from God’s notebook, though we aren’t always sure where to find this notebook or when it will be open.” … The Professor picked up a branch and began to scratch something in the dirt.
This was a delightful story about a single mother, who was also a professional housekeeper and her 10 year old son Root, befriending her new employer, a retired math professor, who due to a tragic accident is left with the ability to only retain information for eighty minutes, before it vanishes from his memory.
This was such a uplifting book about the strong bond of friendship and how beautifully the housekeeper, the professor and Root all truly became better versions of themselves from this new found friendship.
Also what made this book so unique and enjoyable for me, the reader, was the authors use of the poetry of mathematics.
This book made me see and feel the beauty of math, of the laws that govern numbers.
Three people, of which two are completely normal like you and me, the housekeeper and her son, come to understand the magic of numbers through their contact with the Professor (of math).
It is definitely worth reading the book just so that you will learn about math, but there is more!
All the blurbs about this book tell you that the housekeeper is taking care of an elderly man who can only remember what has happened during the last 80 minutes.
رواية رقيقة وجميلة، حبيتها.
It was the beautiful relationship between the Professor, the Housekeeper and her son that took centre stage.The Professor is erudite, eccentric and reclusive.
It is not openly expressed but you can sense the love between them which binds them together like a family.It reminds me of another feel good book about failing memory and family love, Fredrik Backman’s “And Every Morning the Way Home Gets Longer and Longer”.
It is less caught up with the impairment, and builds more on the relationships.So if you are in need of a story to lift your spirits, this is it.Two interesting passages:And yet, the room was filled by a kind of stillness.
I love stories about "found family", in this case a brilliant mathematician with an 80-minute memory from a decades-ago accident, a housekeeper hired to clean and cook for him and her 10-year-old son.
Note that I did not say "I love stories about math." But as the professor teaches the housekeeper and her son about prime numbers and more, and helps the son with his homework, I might just have fallen in love with (the idea of) math.
I think that happened when the professor tells the housekeeper:Eternal truths are ultimately invisible, and you won't find them in material things or natural phenomena, or even in human emotions.
I love these kinds of stories – in books or films, because though they are simple, they can mean a lot to you and touch you very deeply.It is told in first person and none of the characters are referred to by their names.
The Housekeeper herself is ignorant about maths, but when she met the Professor she expressed an interest and start to learn through the Professor.I loved this book – it touched me deeply and I’m going to be hunting down more of Yoko Ogawa’s books from now on.
Will it drive you crazy if the first question you had to answer at the door each day is “What’s your shoe size?” ?A housekeeper, a single mother with a 10-year-old son, finds herself at the cottage of a 64-year-old Math professor who has had nine housekeepers before her.
The Professor tells Root, "The square root sign is a generous symbol, it gives shelter to all the numbers." How wonderful!The housekeeper goes beyond the call of duty to make the Professor’s daily living as stable as possible.
The Professor imparts to the housekeeper, Root, and me (the reluctant Math student) the Mathematical secrets hidden in “god’s notebook”.
I would have loved a Math teacher/professor like him.
Πολύ γλυκό και τρυφερό μυθιστόρημα. Οι πολλές περιγραφές για το μπέιζμπολ ισως κουράσουν, αλλά δεν στέκεσαι σε αυτό.
The slow way in which the Housekeeper, Root and the Professor get to know one another is framed by his lessons on the poetry of mathematics.
As limited as his memory is, the Professor’s ability to find the beauty in numbers (and to share that sense of awe with his companions) seems without limit.
And I liked the sensitivity Root showed when he refrained from correcting the Professor’s assumption that the great Enatsu was still playing (rather than having actually retired more than a dozen years previously).
This time I read the text and find the writing just as poetically beautiful as when I listened to the audio.
But like all great literature, this novel caused something inside me to shift and change.The four characters in this tale are nameless, known only by their titles of Professor, Housekeeper, Sister-in-law, and Root, the housekeeper's 10 year old son, so nicknamed by the Professor because his flat head looks like the symbol for square root.
I'll end by comparing it to "Stoner", a book that has formed a part of my psyche ever since I read it.
Το θέμα του βιβλίου είναι η ιδιόρρυθμη σχέση ενός καθηγητή μαθηματικών με προβλήματα μνήμης μετά από ένα τροχαίο ατύχημα με την οικιακή βοηθό του και το γιο της, μέσα από το μυστηριώδη κόσμο των μαθηματικών. Τρυφερό, ίσως λίγο γλυκανάλατο για τα γούστα μου, αλλά ενδιαφέρον ανάγνωσμα.http://diavazontasvivlia.blogspot.gr/...
