https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6218007-kimi-ni-todoke
Once again, manga proves to be the only pure romance thing i can stomach. This is so cute and adorable! I know I'll be reading the whole thing already! I started this because it's so familiar (seeing it everywhere) I thought it was a new movie adaptation (turned out an anime). However, I'm not sure I'll watch the anime, depends on later volumes. The characters are so naive and innocent. I'm sure if it was a novel, I would've criticized them to no end but manga is like a different world. It's so sweett!! This is so adorable
There are not many books that made me feel so much in general...Sawako is a girl nobody understands, her smile is creepy and she is stiff and everybody avoids her.
Everybody except Kazehaya, who is the perfect opposite of Sawako (or Sadako how her classmates call her) on the first gaze.
Kazehaya is the first person who understands Sawako and her optimistic and helpful character and soon Sawako finds more friends.
Friends she never thought she would have...Coming back to my thoughts and feelings about this manga (I read 15 Volumes already)...
Just read it...
Opening volume of a popular shoujo manga series about Sawako, who looks a little like Sadako from a horror movie, but who is really sweet and intends to be helpful to others.
Except Kazehaya, the Most Popular Boy in School, who befriends her.
Slowly, however, with the help of Kazehaya, Sawako finds more friends.
I’m just putting my little toes into the water of this huge manga area for a class I am teaching on comics and graphic novels with kick ass girls for main characters.
This one seems sweet, one of the better ones I have read, but I still like My Love Story!
far better at this point.
Super cute and fun shoju manga. I loved volume one and none of the insta-love present. It is more about friendship at the moment and I really appreciate that. I love the art and the high school setting too.
Here's the thing:I didn't want to read this manga after so many friends of mine recommended this to me.
It's very sad, to just have a story about a bland girl who lets a guy have his way with her.
Boy hates girl.
Girl prods boy (or pretends she hates him).
Girl stares at boy when he's not looking.
To one point where boy pushes girl against the wall and declares his love.
Boy kisses girl (or can go above and beyond).
This is how a manga should be made, it's the way how it should be done.
so cute and so precious. i have a feeling this manga series is going to be one of my faves.
Actual Rating: 3.5Very cute! I loved Sawako (my brother told me about this manga and said I'd probably like her and he was right.) It didn't wow me but I'm looking forward to reading more.
Basically Sawako (aka Sadako) is ostracised by her classmates because of the way she looks (resembles the typical ‘horror film’ girl) and because they think she attracts ghosts/can curse people.
Personally, I had a few issues with this manga: 1) - Sawako is only accepted because of Kazehaya’s association with her.
I really don’t like how Sawako is used by her classmates, and her wanting to please everyone all the time becomes tiresome.
They should want to befriend Sawako because she is a lovely person, not because Kazehaya isn’t afraid of interacting with her nor because she helps them with their classwork.
I'm avoiding any spoilers for the manga itself, however I plan to use gifs from the anime to express myself better. If you're anything like me and prefer to start and discover the anime by yourself without any spoilers or too many reveals of particular moments, click away now. :) Meet Sawako Kuronuma:Also known as 'Sadako', named after the creepy girl from The Ring.Now meet Shota Kazehaya:They seem like the complete opposite of each other, right?Wrong.Sawako Kuronuma is a sweet, shy girl consta
This first volume includes an introductory chapter, the prologue in which we meet the two main characters and learn of Sawako's dilemma.
We're also introduced to a rival character in the final chapter which is pretty cliffhanger-y because this character is not formally introduced yet.The art, the front cover and the background panels are superbly presented.Like most manga, this one also has its author panels where Karuho Shiina introduces herself and tells the readers about the making of manga.I have now opted to read these panels after finishing the volume since I find they take me away from the story.
This is easy. I love the story so obviously five stars. I need to buy the rest. :) I don't think I get crushes on fictional characters like I'm a fucking adult, but damn that Kazehaya is perfect. In love.
THIS IS ONE OF MY NEW FAVOURITE MANGAS OMG! It was sooooo good. I wasn't even halfway through this volume, when I ordered the next two online AND the anime AND the Japanese live action film adaption... yes it was that good. The Plot: This manga is about a girl called Sawako Kuronuma and she has the looks that would be perfect for a ghost in a horror movie. Long black hair, pale skin and quiet. But everyone has her misunderstood. Sawako is really just a shy teenage girl who wants to make people h
This manga is about a girl called Sawako Kuronuma and she has the looks that would be perfect for a ghost in a horror movie.
Through his actions, classmates start to realise that she's not this feared figure that she is seen to be.The manga is so cute omg.
She's already grown so much in this volume, that'll be interesting to she where her character will go in the next ones!I also really liked having the male lead be a really nice, sweet boy.
He's so cute omg.
I can't get over him haha.Overall, I would really recommend this manga if you want something cute to read.
The premise of this story just didn't appeal to me, but the reviews have consistently been high, so I finally checked out the first two volumes from my library.
I feel happier after reading it: it's a sweet uplifting story.Sawako is our heroine, and she's a little awkward (okay, she's very awkward) socializing with others.
The pace of the story is just right - taking its time to develop realistic friendships as well as a sweet romantic relationship.
Literal, no estoy en estos momentos para leer romance.
¿Para qué leer junto a ti?1.
Para conocer como los rumores y las mala palabras pueden influir en la vida de los adolescentes.
2. Para conocer a un personaje masculino muy lindo y tierno, con una sonrisa que te desarma.
Puntos malos del libro:1.
El romance no me atrajo, se me hizo algo espontaneo y nada creíble, espero que mejore en el siguiente libro.
2. Los chistes no caen :(, aunque las escenas son muy lindas.
3. La trama esta muy plana, (tal vez sea por que es el libro introductorio)8 de calificación.
Because of this, Sawako is finally able to open up to others.My heart went out to Sawako.
As the reader of the story, I was able to see that Sawako is really just a shy but sweet girl who has been through a lot.
He is a very positive influence on Sawako and helps her reach out to others and make friends.I loved reading about Sawako and Kazehaya’s friendship.
It was realistic with all the awkward moments, fun times, and the positive feelings that friends should be able to give each other.
After a Japanese friend recommended this series (the live action show in particular) to me, I did do a bit of research about it before hand and I was really unsure that it would be my cup of tea considering I find I don't get on well with shojo manga (young girl comics).
The fact she says "Good morning" and actually gets a response from others, really does not tie up well with the impression the story is supposed to show.Some of this behaviour may be explained in further volumes, but considering I found this first volume an annoying read and rather a bit dull in terms of what actually happens, I don't think I can be bothered to find out.
LOVED THIS BOOK!!!
She looks like the girl from the ring with the long jet black hair and the sinister smile and she is very quiet.
They all think that they are being cursed by her if they sit near her.
So she is a very lonely girl that has never had any friends and would love to have some.
You just want to cheer her on and hope she makes friends, it also make s you want to yell at anyone that doesn't want to talk to her or sit near her.
I absolutely love it!!
This is probably the most adorable thing ever. There's nothing new about it, the characters are standard shoujo, but there's something so heartwarmingly simple about it and it touches the heart.Sawako is naive and completely lacks social skills and therefore finds herself feared and ignored by her classmates. It's a little sad, but there's also a lot of humor to be found because Sawako herself is completely oblivious to why her classmates fear her - her chronic shyness makes her come across as scary and distant. It's really quite sweet, and Kazehaya's attempts to make friends with her is adorable.
I'm not usually the type who's into romance stuff, but since I won the first three Kimi Ni Todoke mangas, I felt like I should try them out. And boy was that the right thing to do! This manga was amazing! Every single page was adorable overload! And I actually really like the protagonist in this series (usually protagonists in romance novels are whiny or annoying and they get on my nerves, but Sawako is so unique yet relatable!)I'm definitely buying more of these mangas when I finish the first three! (=^w^=)
The main character is supposed to be this super creepy girl that weirds people out but I didn't really understand why they found her so scary. Being that this is the entire premise of the manga, obviously this one didn't work out for me. I DNF'd about halfway through because I got sooo tired of every single page being like this:H-he's....he's so...nice.Every single page.
I can sum this book in two words. Unexpected manga. I'm a lover of manga (Japanese comics) and I never expected to find a book like this. If you want to find out what the book is like read it. I swear to you all that this book is a great book full of comedy, romance and you will shed some tears like I did. (Maybe I didn't shed any tears)Anyway, great book. A must-read.
Lovely drawings. A cute romance. Typical love story where neither is brave enough to put it on the line. I look forward to book 2. To read more of what I thought about this manga check-out my blog on it:http://charliebooks.blogspot.ca/2013/...
I love this series.
Kuronuma y Kazehaya son adorablemente adorables. ¡Me encantan en sus momentos románticos! Y me había olvidado de lo genial y divertido que era Pin. De momento la historia empieza muy bien.
A very cute manga about life, friendship, trying your best, and love. I especially love the main protagonists journey of discovery about herself and the people around her.
Well Im technically on volume 9 but lemme just say THESE MISUNDERSTANDINGS WILL BE THE DEATH OF ME. CHIZU AND AYANO SHOULD JUST MEDDLE TO MAKE THINGS BETTER WTF IS THIS
Cuteness level is a 7! I love it, but it progressed quite quickly and suddenly for me. I hope we get to know more about Kazehaya-kun's character so he's doesn't stay the one-dimensional, knight-in-shining-armour type. There were some some great points when he blushed that peeled away that stereotype, so I hope that continues. XD
Maybe not the best quality friends -- Chizu has a reputation as a delinquent and Ayane would qualify as an Alpha Bitch if she didn't use it to protect Sawako.But of course a girl who starts hanging out with the most popular guy at school is going to get a lot of other girls to come after her with their long knives drawn.The series started as a one-shot meant for the end of another book, and as such the first chapter (labeled appropriately as Chapter 0) is a bit disconnected from the rest of the story, reaching a semi-definitive conclusion that Shiina then had to backpeddle from in the next chapter.
She thinks all the people hate her because they don't know her, but because they don't like her, she's too scared to get to know them.All this changes when Kazehaya, the most popular boy in school, takes notice of her.
I loved the depth of both Kazehaya and Sawako's characters.
He "likes" Sawako, but she only looks up to him as an older brother type (at least to begin with).
The look on her face and her thoughts when she was rejected and ridiculed and contrastly, the amazement and joy when someone took the time to be nice matched exactly how I often felt as a teenager - and imagine many of us have felt at various times in our lives.I will definitely keep reading Kimi Ni Todoke.
The first glance of young love, the blush that sets a heart on fire, the sweet beginnings of something you can only hope will lead to more.I've been looking forward to finally reading this first volume for months now (I'll only say this once, library system you have failed me!) and I'm happy to report that I like it!
Sawako, our female lead, is such a lovable character that she makes you invest in her from the moment she appears on page.
And Kazehaya isn't a bickering bad boy, he's a rather honest character and I feel like I can actually connect with him instead of just swooning.
Poor Sawako has the misfortune to look very much like Ringu's Sadako.
(And let's be honest: wouldn't you be withdrawn if the usual response to you was fear?) From the first volume, it looks like the general story arc will be drawing Sawako out of her shell, with the help first of one of the nicest boys in class.There's plenty to like about Kimi ni Todoke.
For one, the romance elements are very understated, and it looks like it will slowly and naturally grow from both sides.
The general idea is similar (drawing a painfully shy girl out of her shell) even if the execution is very, very different.
