https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/9378297-anna-dressed-in-blood
a million stars for anna dressed in awesome.i was so hoping to be scared by this book.
and that's enough, for a life.i don't even care that this book wasn't scary - it was so fun, and that is usually all i need to be riveted.
and there were so many genuinely funny moments (i do love this kid), and one terrible thing (view spoiler)[ nooo, not tybalt!!
again, not for shock value, but just the way kids curse.
i may never be scared of a book again, but at least i can still be entertained.come to my blog!["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>
Imagine the visual of a pale girl with inky hair floating in a dark house, her beautiful white dress slowly drip-drip-dripping with blood.
When you find out what really happened to Anna, it's hard not to feel terrible pity for her--and to understand why Cas has such a hard time killing her.If you've been looking for a great YA horror novel, look no further.
Anna Dressed in Blood is a stunning novel, full of atmospheric spookiness and unthinkable horrors.
If anything, there's a dark beauty in the descriptions and an elegance in the writing that makes every scene a true pleasure to read.
WHY CAN'T YOU SEE THAT THEY'RE REAL?Funny how he believes in ghosts but not the continued statistical evidence that indicates women still suffer from inequality and, yes little brother, even in western society.
You're creeping through the halls thinking over and over in your head, "Ghosts aren't real.
Ghosts aren't real."It's not a perfect novel.
For me, that just felt like realism because if I were a badass, devil-may-care, teenage ghost hunter (if they existed, little bro) then I'd probably be really smarmy and annoying too.What I really enjoyed was Anna and her relationship with Cas. Anna was like the girl next door.
I probably would have never picked this book up on my own, but I figured I'd give Anna Dressed in Blood a shot for two reasons: 1) It came highly recommended to me from several reviewers and 2) The last time I read a zombie book (The Forest of Hands and Teeth) I really enjoyed it.
(view spoiler)[Then they made out on the front porch of her possessed house and all I could think was, "Ewwww..." (hide spoiler)] It was different, I'll give Blake that, but it just didn't work for me.Other things that bothered me:I did not understand the mythology behind Cas' knife and the villain.
I'M ABOUT TO SPAM THE SHIT OUT OF YOU WITH SUPERNATURAL SHENANNIGANS. SO IF GIF-HAPPY REVIEWS AREN'T YOUR THING, LOOK AWAY NOW.I picked this up for one reason and one reason alone.This past week, I had the plague - given to me by a yet unidentified coworker. (view spoiler)[YOU BETTER HOPE I NEVER FIND YOU, MOTHER FUCKER. (hide spoiler)] During my many days off, I decided to distract myself from the threat of exorcist-style spray painting my bedroom by binge-watching Supernatural. Best. Decision.
(hide spoiler)] During my many days off, I decided to distract myself from the threat of exorcist-style spray painting my bedroom by binge-watching Supernatural.
And you're telling me (view spoiler)[that after kissing a dead girl you start to think about your future with her?
(hide spoiler)]Okay, so tropes aside, this was a solid read.
I quickly found myself invested in Cas's story, the pacing had an organic momentum that never felt forced, I didn't see the plot twists coming, and as soon as I set it down I wanted to pick up the next.
You took right and proper care of me with this recommendation, and while I couldn’t quite bring myself to give away the 4th star, I did find mucho to enjoy about this novel plan to grab the sequel when it comes out (after it's been properly vetted and cleared by the YA Triumvirate).
** The Daddy Factor: As a dad, one metric I use to judge a story like this is to ask myself the following the two questions: (1) Are the leading female characters people that I would want my girls to either befriend, emulate and/or identify with?
But the thing is, after the first few nights I couldn't look at the ceiling without imagining a dead woman hanging and bursting into flames, I became seriously addicted to the story of the gorgeous and badass ghost/vampire/demon-hunting brothers.
Anna Dressed in Blood, a girl who died under mysterious circumstances that turned her into a ghost somehow different.
Kendare Blake makes you face some vivid images you can't get out of your head, and leaves you pondering on the unfairness of it all, and the horrible realization that the living are worse than the dead.
4.5 Anna Stars I'm not going to write a long review. There's really no need. Anna Dressed in Blood is New York Times bestselling author Kendare Blake's most compelling story yet, and most reviews rate it as excellent. Those facts speak for themselves and there really is nothing to say other than to echo the praise of previous reviewers. I shall say only one thing. Read it if you haven't already.
Anna Dressed in Blood was a surprisingly good read. I'm not exactly sure what I was expecting, something typical of young adult urban fantasy perhaps... same old characters, lots of romancing, maybe even an interesting little mystery to give the book some semblance of plot if we're lucky. I was really quite pleased with this exciting, slightly spooky, and wholly entertaining start to the series. I cannot stress highly enough how glad I am that Kendare Blake wrote a romance that was gradually in
same old characters, lots of romancing, maybe even an interesting little mystery to give the book some semblance of plot if we're lucky.
I was able to see how the relationship changed and developed and it was not unclear to me why these two would fall for one another.Also, I had been unaware that the protagonist was male, just assuming that the book would be told from Anna's point of view.
Anna dressed in blood.The story had me interested from the very first chapter and kept me glued to the pages throughout.
So beware if you're squeamish but expect a wild and exciting ride.
First off, I feel I should discuss the cover art: I know, I know--everyone loves this cover. Unfortunately it doesn't do anything for me. Look, I stopped being fooled wowed by cover art after reading Fallen. That's a lie--the cover for the third Paranormalcy book makes me ridiculously happy, but at least I'm fairly certain I'll like that book since I like the first two books in the series. In my opinion the following would have made a better cover for Anna Dressed In Blood: Infinitely better, do
Seriously, what's the big deal?I've read several reviews that claim this book is hilarious and disgusting and terrifying.
Yeah, Anna likes to make it look like her dress is dripping with blood.
I would have loved to hear that they both liked the same subjects in school, read the same books, or even that they shared a deep passion for pie, but that never happened.
Their conversations consisted of Cas questioning Anna about who killed her, the people she killed and how she feels about it, ghost killing, nightmares, and how to stop the gruesome murders happening in Thunder Bay. I don't know, maybe that's what passes for romance in Canada these days.
Just your average boy-meets-girl, girl-kills-people story. 4.5 starsNot many authors can scare you to death by eliciting vivid, gruesome imagery and, at the same time, take your breath away with sheer beauty of their prose. I never expected Kendare Blake to be one of those authors – that’s why her book took me completely by surprise. It was very different from what I thought it would be. When I choose a book based on a beautiful cover and an intriguing title (and yes, I really AM that shallow),
His mother is a white witch and his father was in the business of killing the dead for the second time, at least until one of the ghosts he was hunting murdered him in the most gruesome way.
But he’s never run into a ghost as powerful as Anna nor did he ever try so hard to understand what drives a dead person to murder innocent people.
That’s why they call her Anna Dressed in Blood.Ever since her murder, Anna’s been tied to the house she grew up in.
This is one of those rare instances where everybody likes a book because it's actually good.I guess I wasn't paying much attention at first glance, mostly to avoid spoilers, but I was surprised that the protagonist was actually male.
Cas is one of the best young male protagonists I think I've ever come across.
Not that the ending and final fight were bad, just that I wanted something more.Blake's writing is beautiful and incredibly lyrical.
Anna and Cas are two of my favorite characters I've read about this year and I can't wait to see what's in store for them.
lol He wants to avenge his father's death as he was killed by a ghost he was trying to hunt.
Cas has some friends to help him with Anna, but as he gets closer to killing her he finds himself starting to like her (wtf?) For me this is when the story just gets ridiculous.Some things I loved in this book were Cas and Anna.
I felt really bad for her, and when everything was revealed about her death I was pretty shocked and pissed off.The bad thing here is that once Anna's story was revealed there were still lots of pages left in this book.
They have moved once again so Cas can take out the ghost of Anna Korlov who has murdered many people that come into her house.
These said jerks take Cas to Anna's house and attempt to kill him.
Cas admits to Anna that he has to kill her because she has murdered so many people, but he just can't seem to bring himself to do it.
With the help of Cas's new friends they get Anna bound in a circle so they can see why she is so strong and what really happened to her.
2  starsHo hum. I hate it when this happens. You guys are all inside having a party with roasted chestnuts and hot cider and giant booming laughs and I am out here on a frigid winter’s night peering in through the frosty glass. (Oh yes. I am that dramatic.) But melodrama aside, I hate being the one to dislike something that everyone else loves. I’m sure we’ve all been here a time or two and it’s never fun. I'm not sure why I couldn't get into this one, but I am willing to admit that it may be be
However, where BtVS had conflict and depth as Ms. Summers tried in vain to balance her life as a slayer of all things evil with her life as a teenage girl, this book has none.Cas doesn’t have to worry about money, as his mom has a successful online business that easily travels from place to place.
While I did like the interactions between Cas, Thomas, and Carmel, none of them feel three dimensional to me.
I just wish that the romance part would go away.This book didn’t make me laugh and it never made me scared.
And holy crap, I’m a psychiatrist’s wet dream.This book was so much better than I expected it to be.
I expected a classic YA romance ghost story, but I got so much more.
Surprisingly, romance played a small part in this novel, and that was refreshing to read.
If that doesn't make you want to pick up and read this book I don't know what will.One more thing I want to mention is that for some reason (I don't even know why), sometimes I felt like I was reading The Dresden Files novel.
I was set to be scared but as I turned every page, I had a stupid smile on my face! I expected horror and dread. What I got, instead, were sunshine, lemondrops, and rainbows... sigh! Darn it!I still can't shake off the stupid smile on my face!!! Well played, Miss Blake...
OMG!!
I loved the storyline (I have nothing wrong with that) but there are a few things I have a problem with.1) To start off, the beginning was slow.
After you get through the first say 100 pages it gets so much better!2) *I don't know if you would count this as a spoiler but I'm just putting this here in case* Cas falls in love with Anna...
They should make this a rule, a human should not be able to fall in love with a ghost!
3) Anna is a ghost, so why can she get cuts and bleed????
Why isn’t this song blasted out from public buildings to make people aware that there is a 98% chance that a ghost is going to eat them whenever they leave their house?….just a thought.Also, I’m pretty sure even Demi Moore would have rolled her eyes at some bits...but I'll get to that.
The girls really do like getting their voices heard, don’t they?Anyway back to Cas.It seemingly doesn’t take much for me to fall in love with a fictional boy, but referring to yourself as Rorschach will always work.
People who don’t mind sleeping with the light on.
The first book that I read in English. Except for the short ones and "easy" ones. And it quickly found it's way in the top books I've ever read.And this book had everything in it. I loved Cas. I adored Anna in her demonical moments. The basement scene was the best from the whole book.
It was a one of a kind book with a unique plot.
The characters featured in this book are unique, well written, and are nothing typical.
Everyone is equally important and none are more developed than others.
Another really good feature of this book was that there was almost no focus on a love interest, and no weird drama.
Most books now have some sort of drama between main characters that creates some sort of tension, however Anna Dressed In Blood was entirely focused on the plot and not on the useless side stories.
Overall, I really loved the plot and concept of this book.
This was pretty good. It's perfect for people who want a light and easy paranormal read that happens to be a teen urban fantasy, rather than a teen urban fantasy that has paranormal elements.For me, that focus is key. I like ghost stories, and while this one isn't particularly scary, it does manage to be fun, full of magic, a bit of mystery, and interesting characters. It's pretty popcorn and a pleasant way to spend a morning. :)Nothing deep, just ghost hunting with high schoolers. :)
This book was AMAZING!! Action packed from the start. It’s a quick read and kept me hooked. Cas is a ghost hunter. Anna Dressed in Blood is a murderous ghost. Cas has never faced a ghost this strong. Awesome plot twists and surprising ending. Can’t wait to read the next one!
When I was 13, my best friend, I'll call her Evil Kristin, thought it would be funny to scare the living shit out of me. Unfortunately, she decided to make this a regular occurence as scaring me was so very entertaining.I remember at a sleepover her mother had recently bought the hardcover of the book "The Exorcist". She put it right next to my pillow so that when I woke up it would be staring at me. For those who have never seen the book, here you go: The next morning I turned over and stared i
The next morning I turned over and stared into the eyes of horror and screamed so loud her Siamese cat vaulted off the bed and face-planted into the closed bedroom door.Good Times!Evil Kristin continued on her "Pussification of Heather Tour" throughout our teens.
What follows is a freaky, sweet, endearing and at times, scary as FUCK horror story.
As Cas has spent his life moving around, he struggles with creating attachments to his highschool friends and to Anna as well, because Anna is different than the rest of the ghosts he has killed.
Everyone kept giving it high ratings, most of my friends were already reading it and talking about it between each other.
So I said f*ck it I’ll drop my current to-read list and start it.
Good call that was.Now how can I review Anna Dressed in Blood without acting like a total fangirl?
I know I’m acting like a worked-up teenager over this book but I don’t care.
It’s a wonderful feeling.
This won’t be the last book I read for her.
And as for this series, I’m damn excited to read more.
It’s an awful tag.
*3.8/5 hauuunting stars*  “Yes. Smashing. You’ll be just like those four chaps in the movie. You know the one, with the oversized marshmallow.” Anna Dressed in Blood was such a deliciously creepy read which sends shivers down your back and makes you wary of walking dark hallways of your home at night. Yet, it wasn't the 'scared out of your mind' type of story like those damned horror movies, it's still YA after all. Confession time: I HATE horror movies. I think they are stupid and drastic and I
Anna Dressed in Blood was such a deliciously creepy read which sends shivers down your back and makes you wary of walking dark hallways of your home at night.
Yet, it wasn't the 'scared out of your mind' type of story like those damned horror movies, it's still YA after all.
(Including one incredibly realistic cat who, of course, thinks he's the master of the world.) I know some people didn't like Cas, the main character, because he's supposedly full of himself and thinks himself above normal teenagers and high school issues.
Theseus Cassio (Cas) is our main character in this novel and he's awesome!
Cas receives information regarding Anna, a ghost who's been murdering anyone who enters her house.
I loved the Anna story, it was typical but not cliché.
It really gives you the creeps!I love my horror, this was 100% a book for me, and the author did a great job.
You know, the part where we have to get Anna inside the circle and throw chicken feet at her."Another noteworthy aspect in this novel is the humour that is mixed in with the horror.
Cas is funny and witty even in the worst situations.
Ich WEISS, ich werde dem Buch nicht gerecht, egal, was ich jetzt sage, deshalb fasse ich nur in ein 
My favorite book of 2011! Gorgeous, brutal, heart-breaking, merciless, and cool as Hell. This is the kind of book I've been dying to read! You guys HAVE to read this one.
SO GOOD... SO GOOD.Loved the horror! I've never read any horror, really, so this was SO much fun!But not only that.. I loved the plot, the characters, the themes.. AWESOME! :)
