https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1055617.The_Miracle_of_Forgiveness
This book could be highly recommended for perfect people as a device to flay themselves.I am an active member of the church.
While it seems many people have found it helpful to them, I think this could be an equally harmful book.
He said "suicides are guilty of committing a controllable offense." Of course, people should not commit suicide, but I think that mental illness needs to be taken into account as limiting one's agency.
I think that the healing comes from the Atonement and that we DON'T have the ability to do it alone.
He also told me that I wasn't the first to tell him that and that he had stopped recommending this book to people.
Furthermore, do we believe that everything a prophet has ever said, in thier whole life, is doctrine?
Approach this book with clean hands and intact faith.
In fact, I would recommend Believing Christ by Stephen Robinson in place of this book, simply because Robinson focuses on grace rather than guilt.
Maybe that is the bottom line, I believe that this book is too heavy on the guilt end and not heavy enough on the forgiveness end.
The first half of this book will tear you down and make you feel like you need to go see your bishop for even the smallest little thing like taking the last Oreo cookie out of the cookie jar. But then the last half of this book will show you the true power of the atonement and what Christ has done for us. I would recommend this book to anyone but remember to finish the whole book before you talk to your bishop.
Kimball uses an interesting literary device, devoting the vast majority of his book to all the reasons one needs forgiveness, from french kissing to extramarital sex, from lusting after a 68 Camaro to sitting in the wrong seat on the school bus and therefore missing out on a predestined obligation to testify to that dopey kid who played the tuba.
In the end, it all wraps around to the idea that Jesus Christ was killed in order that all you sinful bastards can attain forgiveness, but I've never spoken to a reader who remembered that part.For outsiders, this book's glimpse at the psyche of your average Mormon might be alarming.
How to rate this book...did I love it, like I'll read it over and over? Did I agree with every word? Instead of feeling guilty, I felt the power and love in obedience, and felt strongly how there are real consequences for actions that the world tends to gloss over or mock. However, I find it a difficult book to read, though I would recommend this to anyone who is feeling like sowing their oats and repenting "someday."
A psychologically damaging book.
Death is preferred over rape? Really? Lunacy.
I don't get why this is such a famous book within Mormondom.
It is basically just a rule book.
I've heard that to soften the blow, you're supposed to start with the last two chapters, then read the whole book.
To me the last two chapters were just so-so, and they definitely didn't make up for the harshness of the rest of the book.
I still like Spencer Kimball, I just didn't like his book.
I am open to the idea of someone enlightening me on why this is supposed to be such a great book.
i put my winkey by her who-ha.
thank goodness the creator of the multiverse, inventor of quantum mechanics, space, time, and all that exists, had nothing better to do than to concern himself with the juxtaposition of the naughty bits of a singular species in all the universe.
how groovy of him.hmmm...
wait a minute...
why *doesn't* he have anything better to do?
i mean...
the universe is a big place with a lot going on.
i guess it just goes to show how awesome he really is.
I'm not so sorry to say that I hated this book. Keep your forgiveness.
I'd read chapters in this book before (when I was struggling with those topics), but hadn't made it past chapter 6, which everyone should skip.
I marked in my copy all the parts that I liked, and I have a separate book where I wrote pages and pages of quotes.
And I HIGHLY recommend chapter 19, even if you don't read anything else.
Though I did do a lot of marking in it, and highlighting things I struggle with, so it'll be possibly too insightful into my life.
I marked 30 as sins I have or have had a problem with.
No particular reason to read, just heard it was good and decided to read it.It's uh...very humbling to read. A good tweak for the soul! :-)I noticed a friend was reading one of his books and remembered this one. I would recommend reading this book every few years or so just to, uh, keep on track. :-)Very compassionate and straight forward.
A better title for this book might be "It's a Miracle Jesus Even Likes You". The author, Mr. Kimball, has the audacity to suggest that a women would be better off dead than to give into a rapist. Is he suggesting that the victim bears at least some of the responsibility for such a horrendous deed?He also suggests that masturbation may lead to homosexuality.There's a lot of judging in this book and very little about forgiveness.
Perhaps the best book I have read on the Gospel (other than the Scriptures themselves, of course.) Every page --almost every paragraph--humbled me and my sole (and my soul's) desire was to repent. My understanding of the Atonement has never been clearer, and my reverence for my Savior has never been as profound as when I read this book. As I read it, I felt as if God was removing my heart of stone and replacing it with one of flesh.
It's just about the worst book you could give to someone who's struggling with any type of personal problem (statements like "one should give his or her life rather than to yield to loss of virtue" could even be interpreted as to encourage suicide, althouh that, too, is a sin as we learn in a later chapter).
Kimball likes to give examples of people who have come to him seeking help and these meetings inevitably end with him giving them a condescending lecture about their moral failings.
Without such effort repentance too is incomplete.
And incomplete repentance never brought complete forgiveness.' One other quote that I really liked was " Man can conquer self.
Man can forgive all who have trespassed against him and go on to receive peace in this life and eternal life in the world to come.' Definitely a great read, but it sure made me feel inadequate....
Kimball got more in-depth with the process of repentance, it helped me cover my feelings of inadequacy with the desire to do and become better every day.
I read this book years ago and sense have had bitter feelings towards it.
Recently I read it again, carefully with a different frame of mind and an intent heart.
It is truely a sweet book.
While some parts seem condemning, the book is really about love.
It is an excellent "how to" for repentance.
It illustrates well the intense desire Heavenly has for each of us to live with him again and really places an emphasis on the tender act of the Atonement the Savior personally and willingly committed.
It is not a self-help, but rather a guide to peace and love.
I recommend it to all, not just those climbing through the repentance process.
statements about our supposed ability to perfect/sanctify/cleanse ourselves (which also must be reinterpreted as being possible only through Jesus).This is my first time reading SWK's classic since reading Believing Christ and Scott Burton's manuscript (not available yet, but the working title is "Who Could Have Supposed").
The cure is as permanent as the individual makes it and, like the cure for alcoholism, is subject to continued vigilance." As I read this, I felt a welling up of frustration for this perpetuation of bootstrap Mormonism--the brand of our religion that seems to posit that we can pull ourselves up by our own bootstraps, and that only "the weak" among us--as if that weren't all of us!--need ask for help in the process.Here's another shocking example, under the heading, "Trying Is Not Sufficient" (pp.
Often called the "Valley of Despair" book.
If you do read it, please be aware that the book was written 40 years ago in the prevalent views of the time.
One big change in church doctrine since that time is the point of view on homosexuality.
The church no longer teaches that homosexuality is a learned behavior that can be unlearned, but it does continue to promote sexual abstinence for those who are not in a legally binding marriage between a man and a woman.The most important thing that I learned?
I feel that this is one of the most over-rated unofficial Mormon texts of all time.
While I can't say that there are any doctrinal problems with the text, I felt that it misrepresented the gospel.
The first half or so of the book is designed to help you understand that you are a worthless sinner.
Really, the people who are inclined to read it are also generally inclined to recognize their guilt already.
However, I feet that it generally fails to rekindle the hope necessary for repentance (see Alma 42).
It fails to help people feel or recognize God's love.
this book has several problematic issues.
The main one being that is is just silly bigotry.
Masturbation leads to homosexuality?
Homosexuality leads to bestiality?
Is Kimball for real?
I am amazed at the numbers of raters to 'love' this book.
Are they saying they actually believe such nonsense?
I have yet to see (and i am 100% sure i never will see) any and i do mean ANY proof that such statements have any truth whatsoever.
kimball was not a prophet simply because he fails the 'test' of a prophet.
This book is a complete waste of time and energy.
A horrendous book meant to use extreme guilt to make people conform to Mormonism's rigid lifestyle. It takes the most natural and healthy of human desire and turn it into deep "sin."One such gem revolves around avoiding masturbation because it can lead to homosexuality. It even implies that this can lead to even further grotesque sexual perversion (i.e. bestiality).Overall, a book that can be very destructive to the very people it's supposedly trying to help.
This book I cannot quite get over. I wasn't given the warning others did to read the last chapter first and so spent the entire book in despair over my wretchedness. Not something you can cure with one chapter.
Ugh! when I think of the psychological damage this book caused me as a teenager...its a MIRACLE I ever came back to the church. This book is not allowed in my home. Believing Christ is MUCH better for us sinners.
Kimball teaches that Masturbation leads to homosexuality and that Homosexuality leads to bestiality. He was writing about "problems" that he had encountered anecdotally in counseling church members, but which more recent studies shows is completely wrong. Thank goodness he was wrong!
A guilt-laden piece who's main purpose, in my opinion, is to scare people into keeping inline with the LDS morality code. I admire what he tried to do, but he went about it entirely the wrong way.
Excellent book. I like the list of all sins on page 25. I expect that I'll be working my way through that list for the rest of my life. This is the first book that introduced me to the concept of "Sins of Omission". I've often heard the words "I've never done anything wrong". The chapter on Sins of Omission explains that we can also sin when we don't do what we should be doing. This is a must-read for all LDS readers.
This book is full of so many wrong teachings. It teaches rape culture and victim blaming under a thin layer of "but we love you anyway" type sayings. I want to take this off my list but I think I should keep it and add my review to the list. If you are thinking about reading this book please don't take it to heart, if you have read this book and been hurt by it- know that you are not alone.
President Eyring said it best, "When I ask people if they've read this book and they tell me they loved it, I always question if they read carefully."
Oh my hell. Even though I didn't even fully believe what was written in this book at the time I read it, it still made me feel like shit. If I could give this book zero stars, I would.
