https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/113310.The_Eight
She just fucking drops that bomb on your brain and it'll NEVER be a fucking movie!"How could I do anything but read this book after such an endorsement?It's pretty typical of the genre.
Anyway, this collection are interwoven into a story that touches on Charlemagne, OPEC, Chess, the French Revolution and the rise of Napoleon among other things and which is mostly entertaining if much too long.The double narrative serves an obvious purpose but makes the book cumbersome and unnecessarily obtuse.
It was a mind bomb about as much as the turn in the new Indiana Jones movie.I am ambivalent about this book.
4 stars to Katherine Neville's The Eight. I stumbled upon this one by hearing about book #2's release and had to start first from the beginning. I'm so glad I did.Characters are well developed. Plot is intricate. Suspense is on target. Story-telling and narration are rich. I want a third book in the series!It's all about a chess match. In theory. But in reality. Russian history. Clever moves and alliances. Family connections. Politics. Strong motivation. Good, thought provoking suspense.
Sinceramente, me ha encantado!
The characters were never fully developed, I never got invested in any of the characters, and I found the book too plot-driven to an irritating degree - with too many historical elements "dropped in" (almost like name dropping) in order to tie the events to historical situations.The only part of the book that I found remotely interesting and attention-holding was the very first chapter.
It's a book that has reached something like cult status, but I found the plot hard to follow, lots of twists and turns that only confused me, and a very unsatisfying ending.
This book was the first of its kind: a historical thriller/whodunnit/magical story that was published in 1988.
In a way, all the similar books that have come after (Dan Brown, Kostova's The Historian) are following in Neville's footsteps.
If you read it now, it may seem flat in comparison with these later works, which have taken a genre that in many ways Neville created and taken it to new levels.
However, I'm giving it this rating because I still remember back more than two decades to my first encounter with the book and the sleepless nights that followed as I rushed to finish it!
The pace is quick, the action almost nonstop (the present-day time line is quicker-paced and much more compelling, but the past ain't all that bad).The writing, on the other hand, is almost painful in places.
It's possible that Ms. Neville took the nineteenth-century definition of "romance novel" a tad too seriously for being a twentieth-century writer.
And this is certainly an unique experience in that regard; a classic nineteenth-century romance novel written, all too often, like a Harlequin circa 1985.All in all, it is a fun little book requiring great suspension of disbelief.
Now the word "thriller" can be deemed to include slow moving, overly convoluted stories that wander from point to point with little actual plot development or indeed plot involvment!Yes we have another story here in the vein of The Da Vinci Code.
an interesting career choice, you know for would-be nuns.Anyway we are also tracking things in the "present" as "powers" seek to find said chess set.So with all this, plots, counter plots, conspiracies going on, how can this be one of the most boring, slow moving, stultifying books I've picked up in weeks?
The novel is utterly audacious in its (ab)use of historical characters, completely, joyfully implausible in its plotting, and I'm not certain whether the language of Romantic page-turners the author makes frequent use of ("dear reader, little did I know that in two hours' time I would be running for my life trying to escape a KGB killer") is ironic or not.
However, I found the book hugely enjoyable as it is - I don't know anything about chess, the basic conceit of the book, but any novel in which Jean-Jacques Rousseau figures as one of the bad guys, J.S. Bach as one of the good guys, and female solidarity is an important theme has a good chance of winning my heart.
Iskreno, ne znam koju bih ocenu dao sad da je pročitam al te godine, kada mi je dopala šaka, knjiga me je toliko raspametila tako da sam joj se vraćao još dva puta. Pa stoga pet zvezdica.Za Ketrin Nevil možemo slobodno reći da je preteča Den Brauna, a njena priča o tajanstvenoj šahovskoj garnituri Karla Velikog zaista je bila "iskustvo" kojeg se još uvek sećam.
En el juego de la vida, los peones son el alma del ajedrez. Hasta un humilde peón puede cambiar de vestimenta. Alguien que amas cambiará el curso de las cosas. La mujer que la devuelva al rail cortará los vínculos conocidos y provocará el fin presagiado.En mi lista de favoritos! Lo he recomendado y prestado entre mis amistades.Me ha gustado la forma de entrelazar dos historias separadas por una línea de tiempo, personajes y hechos reales como parte de la novela (utilizados según la conveniencia y la necesidad), y protagonistas bien definidos.100% recomendado
Σαν την ατμόσφαιρα δεν έχει ... η Neville γράφει για ένα κυνήγι θησαυρού γκουχου γκουχου πιο νωρίς από τον κύριο Brown ... στο οποίο πρέπει να λερωθεις για να φτάσεις στο τέλος του. Παράλληλα μας πάει πίσω στην γαλλική επανάσταση για να μας διηγηθεί την φανταστική εκδοχή μιας πραγματικής δολοφονίας.Αν και κάπως αργό στην εξέλιξη (πολλές φορές οι ήρωες βολοδέρνουν άσκοπα) το μυστήριο είναι ακόμα εκεί και εκτυλίσσεται γύρω μια μαγική σκακιέρα ( και πανάκριβη ... άνετα σκότωμα στο eBay) . Ήταν το πρώτο βιβλίο αυτής της κατηγορίας που διάβασα και με μύησε σε αυτό το είδος.
The Eight - ExKathleen NevilleThe Montglane Service, an ornate, jeweled chess set given to Charlemagne by the Moors, is said to hold a code which when deciphered will bring great power.
Alternating with her story are the present-day efforts of a U.S. computer expert and a Russian chess master to assemble the set and solve its mystery.
Fans seem to gravitate either to the story in the past or the contemporary story.
I'm on the contemporary side.
I loved the character Cat and Cat's romance, albeit a small part of the story, with the Russian, and her friend Lily with the Rolls, and the poodle.
Καλό κι ενδιαφέρον βιβλίο όπου ... μονομαχούσε η αγωνία με την γνώση. Χωρίς να είναι αριστούργημα, μου άρεσε....
7/10Δεύτερη ανάγνωση μετά από πολλά χρόνια. Την πρώτη φορά μου είχε φανεί πάρα πάρα πολύ καλό. Πλέον έχω διαβάσει πολλά ακόμα παρόμοια οπότε εκείνο το αρχικό το ''Ουάου'' ξέφτισε. Μου φάνηκε και να πλατειάζει λίγο σε κάποια σημεία (όχι τρομερά πράγματα). Εξακολουθώ όμως να το θεωρώ ένα καλό βιβλίο, από αυτά που αξίζει να διαβάσει κανείς. Θυμόμουν και πολλά σημεία του καθαρά, το οποίο είναι ένα ακόμα θετικό σημάδι.Δεν θα αναφέρω κάτι συγκεκριμένα για το βιβλίο, πλέον υπάρχουν τόσες κριτικές που η μία περισσότερη δεν έχει καμία αξία.
"The Eight" reads like a student attempting to wow her professor by using as many similies as she can (irony intended).
For the last 10%, it is writen more like a short story, with months of time being skiped and important, climactic scenes being rushed into one or two pages.
It took me months to finish this book.
I'm really not sure why I kept reading it.
I suppose the much-hyped secret that would be revealed at the end kept me going; an ending that ultimately failed to satisfy, as it has been done before.
Malo me smeta besmisleni misticizam ali mi se autoričin stil pisanja jako sviđa. zato slabija četvorka.
Now the word "thriller" can be deemed to include slow moving, overly convoluted stories that wander from point to point with little actual plot covered!Yes we have another story here in the vein of The Da Vinci Code.
an interesting career choice, you know for would-be nuns).We are also tracking things in the "present" as "powers" seek to find said chess set.So with all this, plots, counter plots, conspiracies going on, how can this be one of the most boring, slow moving, stultifying books I've picked up in weeks?
Sometimes you read a book and find yourself wishing it'll never end.
If you want that, this is a book for you.
I thought it'd never end, and I don't mean that in a good way.
The book has been compared to the DaVinci Code, but I think that's an unfortunate comparison.
If you can get caught up in pure fantasy, and not get too concerned about logic or believability, you may enjoy this book, but if you want something more believable, as I do, it's hard to stay engaged in this long book.
Read on the WondrousBooks blog. Long story short: I got this book from NetGalley and I was unbelievably excited about it. In the end, it took me entirely too many weeks to finish it and now I have to send it to the "mediocre at best" shelf.Now let me elaborate.The story of The Eight seemed very compelling: a mysterious chess set, a game that has been going on for ages, two female characters going on the same quest, set apart by 200 years of chasing, a giant battle of good and evil including his
Long story short: I got this book from NetGalley and I was unbelievably excited about it.
In the end, it took me entirely too many weeks to finish it and now I have to send it to the "mediocre at best" shelf.Now let me elaborate.The story of The Eight seemed very compelling: a mysterious chess set, a game that has been going on for ages, two female characters going on the same quest, set apart by 200 years of chasing, a giant battle of good and evil including history's biggest names.However, what we had was:The Writing
That this is beloved by anyone anywhere, and that it ever elicited the press quotes inside the front cover, absolutely boggles my mind.
It is far worse and more painful than that.Solely recommended for those who do not plan to pay much attention to the story, or the characters, or god help you the words on the page - and just choose their reading based on a checklist of genre elements.
You might think you are suffering through the prose for the story, but you are not.
You are suffering through both the prose and the story, and plenty more besides.
Da nije nekih malih preterivanja u "sadašnjosti", bila bi čista petica. Odlična knjiga. Nisam imao vremena za čitanje, ali sam zato dve trećine knjige progutao za dan (i jednu noć do 4.30). Jednostavno, jedna od onih knjiga koje vam ne dozvoljavaju da ih ispustite iz ruku.
I dug up my copy when I moved to NYC 2 years ago and had been curious to pick it up again since then - partly because I had vague recollections of a couple of hot sex scenes, but largely because over a decade after I originally read it, there was a complete cultural explosion centering around another book featuring ancient secrets playing out amid high-paced modern day intrigue, namely The Da Vinci Code.
Not only are they both about modern-day murder mysteries leading to quests for ancient relics of great power, but they both involve a good deal of decoding of multi-layered messages and creating of mythic narratives connecting different eras by playing a little fast and loose with history.
4 stars--I really liked it.There are some warnings I feel I should give about this book before recommending it to people:1.
The historical facts are shaky.Despite all these things, though, I really liked this book.
It was a nonstop adventure, with lots of action--the perfect summer read.
This didn't bother me since I was invested in the story).There's lots of mysticism, political maneuvering, and international intrigue in this book.
If you like historical mysteries and adventure novels, this one was fun.
It's a long book, but it never felt long to me.
Thanks for the opportunity to read and review; I appreciate it!
Esta novela se merece sus 5 estrellas por tres razones: En primer lugar es un libro completamente adictivo, no se puede dejar de leer, en mi caso esperaba con ansia tener un momento para continuar la lectura; la intriga, el misterio y los acontecimientos están tan bien hilvanados que atrapan desde el primer momento.
La autora logra mezclar magistralmente importantísimos pasajes de nuestra historia universal con los acontecimientos que envuelven a los personajes de la novela.
Debo reconocer que en varias ocasiones detuve la lectura para verificar ciertos hechos y así entender mejor el desarrollo del libro.
Old book too. Please don't mind me. Keep reading your things.
Yes. Fast paced, can’t be put down?
Part of the beauty of the book is it takes you to a different place and you really don’t want to leave.I read years after first reading this book that Katherine Neville had written it in a tree-house on the Californian coast.
I know ‘Power of One’ author Bryce Courtney ties himself to a chair for hours in the evening to write, but me, put me in that tree-house and I think I could write a best seller too...She has written, years later, a sequel, The Fire.
I don't even know what to say about his book.It had so much potential but failed to deliver it the r
I would give this book more than 5 stars if I could. The plot Katherine Neville created with The Eight is incredible, intertwined with history and myth and science. Her characters are wonderful, and she does a great job of keeping us wondering until the end who is really on the "good" side. As a writer, I am truly stunned by the intricacy of this plot. Anyone who enjoyed The Da Vinci Code should enjoy The Eight, and it is a better book, in my opinion. A must read, especially for writers learning craft!
Cat finds out that the riddle is linked to Charlemagne's legendary chess set, the Montglane service.
The story then switches to the 1700s in France, where it follows Mireille, a convent girl who is suddenly tasked with having to hide the chess pieces all over the world to avoid the formula being used, as its consequences would be too great.I enjoyed the book's story line involving chess, mathematics, physics and history.
It wove in people like Catherine the Great, Newton, Blake, and many many other important people in history.
The issues were only in the beginning of the book fortunately, but it almost put me off completely.
The 1970's portion still had me – but the tale of Mireille and her pantheon of the greats of France and America of the 1780's just kind of left me cold this time around.
Characterization was kind of magnificent; I mean, in one line Neville said more about Lily than most writers would be capable of in a full chapter ("Lily was the Josephine Baker of chess.
Maybe it's because I don't often have the solid blocks of time to devote to a book that I did when I first read this, but it made me tired.
