https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/387348.The_Group
My Student Director immediately confiscated it, so I knew its reputation was still going strong.(He didn't see my two volumes of Nietzsche I'd also bought with money my Mum had given me for my 20th birthday - I'd only bought them because I'd already seen him confiscate a Nietzsche on the grounds that it could destroy one's faith and I was already seeing large holes in the Church's fabric myself!!) I mentioned what had happened to my History tutor, a Russian woman, at Adelaide University(South Australia) and she gave me her copy of McCarthy which I still have.I have read it three times (2007 was the last time) and seen the movie several times, a very faithful rendition.This book is so eloquent and dry and upfront and honest.
I read this book when I was really young, maybe 12.
I just saw a review on it, it said, "The book was very frank about sexuality, describing some sex scenes in great detail.
However, it felt more "clinical", like a sex ed text than erotic.
Masturbation, the First Time, and Girls who like other Girls, what's clinical about that?
It was my favourite secret book.
(He had showers every day, but a bath on Sunday with an adult book).
I read his Freemasons' book that way as well.
Every woman who moves to NYC after becoming obsessed with Sex and the City should be compelled to read this book.
Even though this book takes place between the WWI and WWII -- they'd probably be shocked to discover that the more things change, the more they stay the same.
If anything, this is probably the most realistic picture of the dynamics of female friendships and their impact on male/female relations that I've ever read.Frank discussion of pre-marital sex, birth control, hasty marriage, loveless marriages, adultery, domestic violence, mental illness, pregnancy, post-partum depression, lesbianism etc.
-- you'll be stunned that this takes place in the 30's.
This is pretty much my ideal novel. It's set in 1930s New York and follows the lives of several Vassar graduates. There has been only a few truly slow portions of this novel. I laughed aloud in several parts of the novel. All of the talk of New York high-society, 1930s politics, Freudian psychotherapy, and modernism generally was like candy to me. All of these characters were pretty darn interesting to me and I was sad when the novel ended.
There's also a tremendous insecurity from the expectations of the day, primarily marriage.So many of the dialogues would start with the character considering something and, like pulling on a sweater's thread, slowly unraveling what they thought they knew.
It's hard to imagine today how large his impact was, but at the time it rivaled Darwin's (and possibly exceeded).Sometimes McCarthy steps back and looks at things from an incidental character's point of view, showing how these young women are perceived—and in that perception, constrained—by men and older women.
You know when you're in the middle of a good book and you have to put it down, you still think about the characters and the story?
Apparently, this book first came out in 1954 & 1963 and I think the reason it was popular was because it had very taboo content - at least for the 1950's.
No plot; the author tries to tell a story of 8 Vassar graduates, but it's too many characters and she doesn't do any of them justice.
Not the good, funny part of Woody, but Woody movies when he has himself or other characters go on ad nauseam about communism, psychoanalysis - (so 1950's!), and sexuality.
This book, on the other hand, which gets almost immediately to a long scene of orgasmic deflowerization...this is a poor choice for a hiding place.Written in 1963 and set in the 30s, it follows eight women, and assorted hangers-on, after their graduation from college and through about seven years of their lives.
Birth control, breastfeeding, institutionalization: the effect of men on women gets worse and worse as we go.
It's not an accident that the final story is about a gay woman.On publication, as Elizabeth Day puts it for The Guardian, The Group "rapidly became a book that everyone read without wanting to admit it." Birth control, right?
There is plenty of T.S. Eliot's "The women come and go, talking of Michelangelo" in these sketches of Vassar girls, as they discuss Cézanne, O'Keefe, and read Clive Bell, Roger Fry, Croce, Tolstoy's "What is Art?" They have Marx, Spengler, Edmund Wilson's Axel's Castle on the shelves (which is amusing considering that McCarthy was married to the man).
By the time the complete book was published in 1963 the shock value was considerably lessened but still palpable.
What were some of the social issues of the period: psychoanalysis, breast feeding, sex outside of marriage, women having independent careers, how to raise babies.“The Mary McCarthy Case” by Norman Mailer appeared in the October 17, 1963 issue of the NY Review of Books.
I found the book interested me significantly as an artifact of life in the 1950s (when it was written) and 1960s (when it was published) as I imagined what readers of that time might have thought about the book.
This is for me an absolute 5 stars.
The manner in which the characterisation of the different persons comes forward is masterful.
Each person is descriped in a very detailed, sometimes sugggestive manner.
Also the fact how the total store is interwoven is very good done.
You regularly have to laugh with what the persons think, or say or how they handle.
The only negative thing: it's difficult to discern certain persons at the end; some come more forward and you would remember better, other disappeared during the story.
But certainly a remarkable read.
It reads like a soap :)
If this book were about men, it'd probably be considered a Great American Novel.
Then the two movies followed in 2008 and 2010.The year was 1933 and eight ladies have just graduated from Vassar College, an exclusive-for-women (then) university in Poughkeepsie, New York.
and so I just keep on reading to find out what happened to the rest and there were times that the story gets boring as McCarthy tried to navigate through the usual men-are-from-mars-and-women-are-from-venus by showing the differences of how men and women think and react to things and situations differently.
Even now that many things are instant and computerized, the male-female relationship, its usual pitfalls particularly, is still very much the same.Just like the "Sex and the City" the sexy parts in the story are the best for me.
Da una parte anelano al raggiungimento dell'indipendenza, dall'altra sono continuamente bombardate dai richiami alle convenzioni vigenti.Lavoro da una parte, necessità di trovare un uomo e di "sistemarsi" dall'altra.Indipendenza economica di qui, "perché cara non hai ancora un figlio?" di là.Vorrei scegliere un uomo che mi ami e mi faccia sentire bene per davvero/va beh, anche se mi violenti e nemmeno mi baci va bene lo stesso.L'autostima evidentemente langue, ahimè...Il libro parla di cose certamente all'avanguardia, per l'epoca in cui è stato scritto.
Eight seemed too much, because many of the characters weren't fully developed.
I only felt I got to know 3 or 4 of them to any extent.
Most of the characters were pretty superficial, making it hard to like them.
(I felt sorry for Kay, but I can't really say I liked her.) The plot wasn't that linear.
It felt like a series of sketches.
The book was very frank about sexuality, describing some sex scenes in great detail.
However, it felt more "clinical", like a sex ed text than erotic.
Interesting, but not great.
Through particular characters McCarthy explores a blue-blood prejudice against Jews, African-Americans, the Irish, and women who've read Freud; through others we gain glimpses of compassion, connection, and achievement; still more demonstrate how bored the class of 1933 became once they embraced motherhood at the expense of the other work they wanted to do (and how communism might become a hobby).
It's so deeply rewarding to read a book in which the men aren't the main focus, and women don't exist to provide them with a shove in the direction of character-development.
I can't wait to read more of McCarthy's books.
Through Dottie, McCarthy argues that a “child of the depression,” like Dottie and the group, while excited by and primed for modernity, is conscious of the world’s dangers and desires security.
After the encounter, Dottie fears the unknown status of the relationship and eventually chooses another man to pursue as her husband, a man who is older and more set in his ways.Another of McCarthy’s standout characters is Libby MacAusland, a “group” member whose post-collegiate career choice is publishing.
The Great Gatsby meets Valley of the Dolls meets Emma.After tearing through the surprise ending, I would have given this book five stars, if not for the nagging remembrance of some of the long, plodding chapters from the points of views of complete ninnies.
McCarthy is a master of satire and social criticism, and writing from each girl's perspective she manages to show the real motives, feelings, intentions, delusions, and truths that cause people to seem ridiculous to others, when they only halfway are."To be curious about someone opened you to be contaminated from them." (486)
A video review will be up on my YouTube channel 'Helene Jeppesen' on January 7th :)
Sei matrimoni e un funeraleCorre l'anno 1933 quando un gruppo di otto ragazze americane, tutte rigorosamente appartenenti alla upper class, escono con tanti sogni, ambizioni e illusioni da una scuola assai prestigiosa, il Vassar College.Ci vengono presentate più o meno tutte nel primo capitolo, al matrimonio di Kay (elemento del gruppo) e Harold.
Reading this book is like drinking a very dry gin martini (shaken, not stirred).
I tucked the book away in the back of my mind as something I should read at some point.
I am currently reading books that were published in my birth year and this was the first.
I am glad that I have more choices than these women did (What the hell did they get such great educations for, anyway, if all that was on offer was to keep house?
As Sex and the City, The Group finds eight young Vassar women looking for love and careers in New York City.
But what makes this novel different from Sex and the City is that The Group is set during the 1930's when women didn't discuss birth control, were promiscuous, were openly Lesbians, or career women.The novel opens after "the group" graduates for Kay's wedding, an unusual one at that to their elite standards.
Some women drift apart and some become entangled in each others lives as they embark into their careers in medicine, publishing, and what not.
It’s important to know that the copyright on this book is 1954.
Also, I should share that the story takes place during America’s Great Depression.If you didn’t know these two facts, you might think this is just another book of contemporary women’s fiction.
(See what I told you…Does that sound like a contemporary women’s fiction novel, or what?) But this book was much, much better than any contemporary women’s fiction novel I’ve read.
It could be because it was the first of its kind, but I think it’s a little more than that.
I would be thinking, Gee, these women are just like me, and then Whump!
SourceInterestingly, The Group was not written by McCarthy as a platform for feminists ideals, though it's come to be thought of as a feminist novel.
Apart from Lakey, none of the girls are very bright and I was interested in satirising the way each of them embraces the New Deal era, in fashions, domestic appliances, ideas, sex and so on.
SourceThe Group took me completely by surprise and I only wish now that I'd read it when I was a young woman, fresh out of university, making my way in New York with my friends.
You don’t want to get on McCarthy’s bad side, I’m thinking.It’s fun, though, to watch her verbally eviscerate someone, whether as herself taking on her nemesis, Lillian Hellman—“every word she writes is a lie, including ‘and’ and ‘the’”—or in the guise of Lakey, the leader of the Group, who comes back from Europe at this novel’s end accompanied by her baroness girlfriend and rips horrible Harald a new one.
I don’t doubt for one second that people like McCarthy portrays did exist, or that much of wealthy white society in the ’30s was exactly like this—the book feels brutally authentic.
Reading this book was a bit too much like being stuck at an interminable party full of people you don’t much like—and who make no secret of the fact that they freakin' hate you.
My 5-Question ReviewShare a one sentence synopsis, please?While the Great Depression roars on, eight women graduate college and navigate career, marriage, sex, sexual assault, infidelity, homosexuality, birth control, fertility, breast-feeding, child rearing, and masculine control proving that not a whole lot has changed in nearly a century.What did you like?I really enjoyed the style of narration.
The book was a long one and there was nothing spectacular or particularly exciting about the lives these women lead, but it felt real and that’s probably why I could identify with so much of what was happening.
And tease us with fully fleshed developments in one chapter, only to discard the character completely save for a few mentions in the end?Apparently, Normal Mailer (bless his soul, I do so hate the casual sexism and misogyny of the Midcentury, and yet...) had much the same opinions as myself, upon the release of the novel:http://www.nybooks.com/articles/1963/...I stuck with it to the end, and I wholly regret time wasted.
And if I never have to read another book featuring a Libby, Pocky, Lakey, Muffy, Kitty or some other ridiculous diminution of female character, it will be too soon.
I imagine the 1950s sweater set sharing the book with each other and identifying with the characters, saying "I'm a Kay" or "I'm a Helena" or "I'm a Polly," much the way the girls of my generation say "I'm a Carrie" or "I'm a Charlotte" or "I'm a Miranda." If you read the book for what it is, a story of friendship in pre-war America, you can get a sense of the motivations and insecurities that might have driven our grandmothers.
Betty had an Anthropology degree and total disinterest in motherhood; surely she felt that this book spoke to young women when it was published, in 1954.
Are you not much of a bathtime reader?
She tends to these preoccupations until their transcendence shines through to the reader.
Particularly about sex, McCarthy is shockingly frank and without parallel among writers working today, who skew quirky-cute.She's unembarrassed to focus on life as lived by women -- a refreshing change this summer, when every white male critic vents his fury at the supposed hubris of "Eat Pray Love." Why bother with such pettiness, when we could read this book?
One realizes that social changes for women have been agonizingly slow and that human behavior might never evolve.
The story follows the lives of a group of Vassar women immediately after graduation.
The book ends in the same church with the same group of women attending Kay's funeral.
Character presentation is immediate, and the complexities of various parental, lover and friend relationships are spot-on.The Group is as relevant today as it was when first written and will most likely endure for another 50 years.
