https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/233719.Dawn_and_the_Impossible_Three
the kids also start to over-rely on dawn--when buddy does well on a class assignment, he stops by dawn's house to tell her about it, instead of sharing the news with his mom.
i didn't like the egregious continuity error on the book: at one point while dawn is teaching the kids how to clean the house, marnie sits on the floor & eats M&Ms (she's really too young to understand or help with housework).
maybe twenty pages later, the barretts are at a picnic at the pikes' house & dawn gives marnie a brownie.
I always loved her stories as much as Stacey and Mary Anne's.
Dawn and Mary Anne have become fast friends and also discovered their parents were once high school sweethearts.
Believe it or not, Mary Anne's straitlaced lawyer father was once a boy from the other side of town.
But a few things that I loved about Dawn's role as main protagonist- Watson( Kristy's stepfather) gets a last name- Watson Brewer.
Dawn is the first to give us the names of all eight Pike children( Mallory, Byron, Adam, Jordan, Vanessa, Nicky, Clara, Margo).
Dawn attempts to deal with Kristy's jealousy in regards to Mary Anne in a very mature manner.
dawn picks up the slack and basically becomes the barrett kids' real mom until she finally develops a sense of boundaries and stands up for herself.
inconsistency, ann m!-dawn is complaining that it's cold out and says that at her mom's memorial day picnic people will be wearing down jackets, because it is SEVENTY DEGREES OUTSIDE.
the point of southern california isn't that it's warm all the time, it's that it's temperate all the time!-also the memorial day party is for dawn's "parents and grandparents" -- but by parents she really just means mom.
**Rated by my daughter**
New member of the babysitters club (Dawn) has her hands full when she takes on a new client. A divorced mother of 3 hires her....what happens when Dawn starts to get overwhelmed though...why is she constantly the only babysitter that this mother wants and why is she always having to clean up the house when that’s a mother’s job? Dawn may need to sit down and have a talk with her but is she brave enough?
Did I pick this up on Dec. 30th only to ensure I could finish my 75 books in 2016 challenge? Sure did. And it worked.
Rereading BSC books, which sparked my ~love for reading~! For this one, the pages flew by, and I found myself liking Dawn more now than I did when I first read this. Her outfit on that cover is also *thumbs up emoji*
I really enjoyed this book...it was funny in some parts of it and in other parts very serious. I love this Series. I am going to continue reading them through the Over Drive App on my Kindle through my County Library System. Happy Reading :)
I think this book is a great book. I think these books show what its like to baby sit and what happens sometimes. If you would like to read this book make sure you check out the rest of her books!
I didn't really remember much about the single motherhood theme, but as I read, it became clear that this entire book is about the difficulties faced by divorced moms.And I guess the question is whether or not those difficulties were presented in a way that has become dated in the nearly 15 years since this book's publication.The BSC series represents several diverse family dynamics.
Each BSC book up to this point has the girls facing a real-life babysitting challenge, and Dawn's is that she has to find a way to stand up to a mother who is taking advantage of her.
Dawn is both flattered and stressed by the Barretts’ fondness and dependence on her, like when Suzi calls her at home just to talk, or Mrs. Barrett calls Dawn "the glue that holds us together." It’s an emotionally complex problem.
If you want to talk about "too easily dealt with," though, marvel at the subplot where it seems like a tempest is brewing in the Dawn-Kristy-Mary Anne love triangle.
Also, a line has been added in a section where Dawn is unable to reach Mrs. Barrett by phone, saying, "Her phone must be off." In updated Stoneybrook, everyone's phone is always off.
I think that me, my brother and my sister would have been a lot like Buddy Sussie and Marnie. I reckon it would have been a very hard time for Dawn!
Ah, the gold old days of the BSC-verse when Kristy hated Dawn just like the rest of us do.
She makes Sharon Schafer's dope smoking absent-minded nature look like a walk in the park, and that's a woman who left pruning sheers in the bread drawer once.
It literally takes Buddy being kidnapped by his own father on Dawn's watch to get Mrs. Barrett to get her head out of her ass and pay better attention.
I was just always glad that poor Buddy hadn't been abducted by a child murder.
Either one.I watched a lot of Unsolved Mysteries as a child.
Dawn is officially a member of the BSC and gets a new client, the Barrett family.
(Though they didn’t seem to be to meat all) Over time though Dawn finds that Mrs. Barrett is taking advantage of her and it leaves Dawn unsure what to do about it.
Dawn eventually had the courage to speak up and find change with Mrs. Barrett.
The book was interesting a very different storyline to usual, the kids weren’t terrors really at all which I kinda thought was the premise of the book but that’s okay they were adorable children so it was a good read.
The Baby Sitters Club By Ann M.
Martin is a book I would recommend.
I would recommend this book to 2nd - 4th graders because it is a very easy book and i finished it in only three days.
This book made me have mixed emotions because in some parts they were mean to one of the members of the club and there were also some happy moments.This book is about about a girl who is new to the baby sitters club and then she knows this girl and she also joins the baby sitters club and Dawn is being mean to the new girl.
The series first book told from the POV of Dawn, a baby sitter I liked a lot as a kid, and not so much as an adult.
I put off reading this book because I wasn't interested in reading about the Barretts.Things I've considered since reading this as an adult:I really like the way Dawn "handles" Janine.
I hate that the Barretts live in filth, and I hate that their mother spends more time making herself look good than she does cleaning her house.
On page 49, when cleaning the kitchen, Marnie finds a bag of M&Ms and begins eating them, yet on page 85, Mallory snatches a brownie out of Marnie's hand and tells Dawn she's allergic to chocolate. I mean, what are we to believe, that she just developed the allergy, or something? Haha, boy, I really hope somebody got fired for that blunder.
Dawn MIGHT be the most annoying member of the babysitter's club to me. I don't know. All I know is, I read the five books we got, and I'm done. I do not think I'll be picking up anymore in the series, at least for now. I've found these don't really hold up over time like so many of the other middle grade books I enjoyed as a child. Anyway, feels a bit like time wasted, honestly, but I'm still glad I did it.
I used to love the Babysitter's Club! My friends and I used to swap them between us when I was in primary school. They were so popular at the time, there was a waiting list at the library if you wanted to read them in chronological order! I used to be allowed to buy one book a week on a Friday when I was younger; this was usually an Enid Blyton, Roald Dahl, Point Horror or one of these! I would love to revisit them at some stage, just for nostalgia's sake!
This book is really good because it’s about dawn the newest member of the club but not for long. Dawn goes to baby sit for these three kids with a mom that leaves a lot for work during the day and the kids start to depend on Dawn more than there mom. Then something happens to one of the kids. Will Dawn keep sitting for the three kids or their mom finally care of them?
Dawn was taking care of the kids when buddy went missing. This was my favorite part in the whole entire book. Mary Anne got to redecoarate her room. Kristy is having to move to a new house and does not want to. Mary Anne's dad and Dawn's mom like each and have been going out on dates. I liked this book because it was a comic and really easy to read.
We're finally getting to know Dawn! She's super healthy and very mature, compared to the rest of the group. I enjoyed reading about Dawn and Mary Anne watching there parents, who have recently started dating. I enjoyed all the CRAZINESS with Dawn and the Barrett family. However, watching Kristy act out of jealous of Dawn's new friendship with Mary Anne was annoying.
Quick and easy read. I’m not really sure why I like these books so much and I feel weird for reading them but I try to be open with many different books, even if they’re a little young for me and from the 80’s. Really enjoy these books for some weird reason.
Quick and easy read. I’m not really sure why I️ like these books so much and I️ feel weird for reading them but I️ try to be open with many different books, even if they’re a little young for me and from the 80’s. Really enjoy these books for some weird reason.
One of my favorites in the series so far! I think Dawn might be my favorite now. In this installment, she bravely stands up to a client and handles herself like a mature professional. For someone who struggles with confrontation and negotiation, this inspires me to step up.
The kids I watch love it, so I gave it a try. It’s a comic book format. The story isn’t catching for a big girl like me haha... but I can see why they love it. A lot of ‘teenager’ drama and no boyfriends. I wasn’t too impressed but it’s an okay book
Its good
Not much of a storyline, but I liked how basic it was - just told what was going on in everyone's lives.
amazing love all the books
Dawn was my favorite, until Mallory showed up.
Nice book, just for fun.
