https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1729347.Maid_In_Waiting
I enjoyed getting a look at the Forsytes from her point of view.There are 2 main story lines in this book, and they both had me agog to find out what was going to happen.
Mental health is one of the main themes for one of the story lines as well, which is interesting, given that it must have been quite a taboo subject at that time with a great stigma attached to it.I think I’ve currently overdosed on Galsworthy and need to take a little bit of a break before I get entrenched in number 8, The Flowering Wilderness.
It was a disappointment for me to learn that book 7 in The Forsyte Chronicles was not really about the Forsyte family at all (but rather about the siblings, nieces, and nephews of Fleur Forsyte's husband's mother).
To claim this book as part of the Forsyte story is a bit of a misnomer.
There are shades of Fleur Forsyte in the main character, Dinny, but without the spunk.
Nonetheless, the cast of characters are human and likeable and the cliffhanger in the final chapter entices the reader to seek out book 8 (which I fully intend to do).
BOTTOM LINE: #7 of 9 Forsyte Saga, interpersonal doings of a Society family; family saga, not-quite-classic.
Mild and pleasant, filled with ramblings about politics-of-the-day and suchlike, usually something I enjoy, but there’s no spark - he’s done it far better before.
The lead character Dinny, while interesting and “nice”, isn’t as vivid as Fleur, or as gripping as Irene, and the plotting is far too similar to earlier happenings in this long series.
Galsworthy must have needed the money - there’s nothing special to recommend it over thousands of other late 20s/early 30s Society-centered books.
After the cataclysmic events at the end of the last volume, I fully expected to continue with the story of Fleur, Jon, and Michael.
But here we unceremoniously switch perspectives to the little-mentioned cousins of the Monts, most notably one of the young daughters.
This isn't necessarily a bad thing.
I found Dinny a thoroughly likable character.
The plot is a bit frenetic and episodic (and, I dare say, melodramatic), but it's also engaging and as socially insightful as ever.
Although not perhaps as objectively good as some of the previous installments, I'd have to say I enjoyed as much as any in the series.
Beautifully written and thought provoking, Maid in Waiting focuses on a different branch of the family (with Fleur and Michael Mont as the only familiar characters). The same over-arching themes are here though, including love and marriage, family, duty and service - and how our perceptions of these themes change over time, as society changes.
Dinny the meddlermatchmaking, mental patientsnothing is sacred.
The lead character is Dinny Cherrell, a cousin to Michael.The narrative is tight even as it meanders through the vagaries of marriages proposed, marriages in jeopardy, and marriages rushed into.
Dinny takes a humanist approach to these vexing and insoluble questions - try to do good is basically it.
The questions may be eternal, but the discussion was still engaging, and the societal approach not so different almost a century later.Galsworthy was a lawyer, though he practiced little or not at all.
Still, this is an entertaining novel, but best enjoyed as a different branch of the Forsytes - I don't think it would be a good read without already having experienced the Forsyte milieu.
The novel centers itself around young Hubert Cherrell's return to England after an adventure to Bolivia under American Professor Hallorsen.
Hallorsen wrote of Hubert's confrontation with a Bolivian ended in murder of one of the men.
Dinny gathers the family, including Sir Lawrence, Uncle Adrian (an adventurer himself), and Uncle Hilary, known in the previous Forsyte novel as a benevolent rector who seeks to end London's poverty, to come to his aid.
Dinny also nudges Hubert's return to society, where he meets Jean Tasberg, the neighboring rector's daughter.
Fleur and her husband Michael having now been married for about eight years, remain just peripheral characters in this novel.Hubert Cherrell, son of Sir Conway Cherrell, on sick leave from the R.A.F, joined an expedition to Bolivia, where he got into a whole heap of trouble involving some Bolivian men who Hubert flogged for animal cruelty – one man was shot – and the expedition failed.
Now Hubert has had his name linked to the failure of the expedition in the newspapers, by Hallorsen – the American who led the expedition and has had hard words to say about Hubert since.
Not the best Galsworthy, but a good read
The first two trilogies have interconnecting interludes between each of their two parts...............................................................................................................................................The Forsyte Saga:-The Forsyte Saga was not planned as such but developed over years with sequels coming naturally as they did, and human heart and passion and minds within settings of high society of a Victorian and post Victorian England - chiefly London - and its solid base in property.When it was published it was revolutionary in the theme - a woman is not owned by her husband, and love is not a duty she owes but a bond that is very real however intangible, that cannot be faked.Wednesday, September 10, 2008........................................................................
This first volume of Galsworthy's End of the Chapter provides a different atmosphere than his Forsyte Saga and The Modern Comedy, particularly due to the change in characters and the absence of Soames in this final trilogy.
Rather, the books emphasize a new character who enters into the scene named Elizabeth (Dinny) Cherrell, a likable young maiden who involves herself in saving both her brother from an unfortunate misfortune, and a friend from an unstable husband.
In addition, some of the scenes, due to the husband's psychosis, provide some of the most tense moments of any of the previous books in the Forsyte Chronicles.
Galsworthy's great theme was the redemption of troubled people.
Soams Forsythe is redeemed after years of trying to own others, culminating in the inexcusable rape of his wife.
All are either in conflict with or, with Soams, the paragon of traditional English values, which are the bedrocks of their problems.
We have no investment in them or their problems, the story seems quite slight, and Galsworthy's writing style was never a reason to read these books.
Dinny Cherrell decides to redeem her brother's reputation and finds love along the way, though she does not want the love of either of the men who offer it.
When I first read The Forsyte Chronicles a long time ago, I was disappointed by the last three books. Who cared about the Cherrell family, who were in-laws to Fleur Mont (née Forsyte)? I wanted more about the Forsytes. This time I was more captivated by this novel, and Dinny Cherrell is a wonderful character. But I sense that these people did not enter into Galsworthy's imagination as deeply as the Forsytes did.
I don't think this 7th part of the saga stands comparison with the earlier parts which focus on the Forsyte family. However, it is offers lots of insight into Britain in the 1930s. Society continues to change and Britain's place in the world is examined in relation to Hubert's Bolivian incident. The Charwell family note that upper class influence can be counterproductive as the reality of politics shifts ground. Danny (Elizabeth) is the central character whom I feel is certain to be the mainstay of the remaining novels with her somewhat melodramatic response to her to suitors!
Goodbye Forsyte (not all the characters, mind you) and hello Cherrell.This first book in the series written almost completely from a female character's prespective is lovely. And it's got an unexpected fiery feminist speech in the middle, for extra fun.
3.6
Excellent reading, although a few mispronunciations.
Mine is a Penguin Books Ltd edition
The first two trilogies have interconnecting interludes between each of their two parts...............................................................................................................................................The Forsyte Saga:-The Forsyte Saga was not planned as such but developed over years with sequels coming naturally as they did, and human heart and passion and minds within settings of high society of a Victorian and post Victorian England - chiefly London - and its solid base in property.When it was published it was revolutionary in the theme - a woman is not owned by her husband, and love is not a duty she owes but a bond that is very real however intangible, that cannot be faked.Wednesday, September 10, 2008........................................................................A Modern Comedy:-The second part of Forsyte Chronicles begins - with The White Monkey, first volume of the Modern Comedy - where the Forsyte Saga left off, with a six years gap that includes what was then called the great war and is now known as the first world war.
As several have noted, this novel, the first in the third trilogy, shifts the focus from the Forsytes to a Fleur's husband's mother's family (yes, it is a bit complicated) and, in particular, Fleur's cousin by marriage, Dinny.
It doesn't have the vivacity and force of some of the earlier novels, but it is a good read nonetheless.
It is more deliberate and far more about the social changes of the 20's and, thus, more of a social comedy and less of a family drama.
As social comedy, it is rich, with many different types and views of how the world is changing.
I could hardly believe this was written by John Galsworthy, so different was it from the previous books in the Forsyte Chronicles. Soames is dead, Fleur and Michael are entirely peripheral - almost mentioned in passing - and this book strays from the central characters. The plot seems to be a poor imitation of a John Buchan with an extended chase sequence. At the same time Galsworthy indulges in occasional rambling thoughts about the problems facing society which are completely tangential to the plot. What a disappointment. Skip this one if you are reading the series.
This is book 7 of the full 9 volume Forsyte Saga. It initially sounded like a madly convoluted bunch of plot lines, filled with people who use "should" as "would" rather than "ought", e.g., "I should very much like to go." And yet, somehow Galsworthy made these upper-class Brits likeable, understandable, and sympathetic. The focus on these final three books of the Saga focus more on the Mon branch (Fleur's husband, Michael and his many and varied kin).
I'd read the first six books of the Forsyte Chronicles back in the '70s and once or twice since, but never could get into the last trilogy. (I own the boxed set of the first 6 which was the tie-in edition for the Eric Porter/Susan Hampshire TV series.) Thanks to the magic of Kindle reading I am now well launched into the last trilogy and finding it good.
The focus changes onto The Cherrells, and the style changes. But the quality remains. I've only two of these books to go. So glad I'm sharing them with a wife who was more versed in literature than I was when we met. She's pointed out some treasures in our time together, but Galsworthy is probably the most unexpected delight.
I'm totally addicted to the Forsyte Saga. In this book the story moves away from the Forsytes to the family that Fleur married into - the Monts & their cousins the Cherrells. Really enjoyed this book.
Loved it! I have such a deep and abiding love for Galsworthy. This book had everything you could want, family, romance, intrigue,courtroom suspense, cross-country chases. I enjoyed it so much. I hope one day to read the entire Galsworthy library.
There's a modern feel to this first book in Galsworthy's third Forsyte trilogy. We find love, of course, and also a murder trial, plans for a kidnap, a car/train chase, and here's a twist--a mad man in the attic. Very enjoyable reading.
New characters who are interesting and have differing views than those of the previous 6 books in the chronicles. Strong women characters. A refreshing change of pace.
read
