https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/47990.Jingo
If you're into stuff like this, you can read the full review.9/11: "Jingo" by Terry PratchettBack in the day, I randomly grabbed a copy of one of Pratchett's books as I bulked up my reading list for the next day when my vacation started.
Shocked and stressed, with the news playing in its continual loop in the background, I started reading "Jingo" - having no idea what the book was about, only that I needed something to distract me.
I'll always be thankful to Pratchett for that.
This time we are dealing with national politics, war, racism and immigration, and of course, national jingoism.There is an early scene in this book that sums up everything I love about Pratchett, and it is only a few pages long.
But our good friends Colon and Nobby are watching the cities jingoistic sailors prepare for way, specifically a sign painter who has missed a letter ‘e’ in the Pride of Ankh-Morpork.
Religious differences.''Ran out of weapons?' said Vimes.'Ran out of rocks, sir.
And some people reckon it's only a bit of fly dirt in any case.''Centuries of war because a fly crapped in the wrong place?''It could have been worse,' said Carrot.
But it is wishful thinking as well as longing for more Vetinaris and Sam Vimeses in the world.In "Jingo" Terry Pratchett is actually waging a bitter and deeply sad one-man war against nationalism, racism, religious fundamentalism, territorialism and all kinds of nasty-ISMS invented by men and he does it the way he knows best: by making you laugh out loud and think!
We're always one of Us. It's Them that do the bad things."Jingo is an anti-war book in the guise of an absurdist farcical satire.I've been working on getting though the Discworld books since I was sixteen, which is now exactly half my life ago.
Fitting that I am also now halfway through Terry Pratchett's most famous series of books, and just now really getting to the ones that start hitting harder.
It's not just war that Pratchett sends up here.
Lots of -isms.I always have such a hard time writing about these books.
Esta enorme variedad de personajes le sirve a Pratchett para hacer lo que se le da mejor y lo que más disfruto de sus novelas: criticar los aspectos más ridículos de las diferentes culturas y religiones, creando estereotipos absurdos, pero a la vez sumamente entretenidos de leer.
No considero ofensivas estas burlas, sino que por el contrario me parecen una forma bastante inteligente de criticar nuestra realidad sirviéndose de criaturas fantásticas; ese aspecto es lo que hace que Mundodisco sea una saga única, diferente a cualquier historia de fantasía que vas a encontrar.
Wars not make one great.” – YodaWar on the Discworld.Sir Terry Pratchhett’s satire on war and all things warlike – from the martial to the blindly jingoistic - was a lot of fun.
Pratchett’s character Lord Rust sees to embody all that is nonsensical about the “us versus them” populist rhetoric.
We also get to meet 71 Hour Ahmed, one of Pratchett’s most memorable Discworld players.I also very much enjoyed the Lovecraft references.For Discworld fans and for Pratchett fans everywhere.
Vimes and the Watch; the Patrician, Leonardo, Nobbs and Colon; and various other characters are all trying to avert or encourage the war for their various purposes.
I just love how Pratchett gets sharper in his satire, more pointed, while retaining the slapstick.
And I really just enjoyed the hell out of the character development of Nobbs.
Picking a favorite Pratchett character would be like picking a favorite child, that is, inadvisable for any reason.
But I appreciate that even characters who've been present for quite a while can still be developed.I bought it.
Ankh-Morpork Goes to War5 April 2016 I have to admit that I'm quite surprised that I have now read 21 of the Discworld books. Okay, that actually isn't much of an effort where I'm concerned considering that for some inexplicable reason I ended ploughing through a large majority of the Xanth books, and also pretty much read every Forgotten Realms book (and a few Dragonlance books) as soon as they hit the shelves. Okay, after doing English Literature at university I must admit that my taste in boo
Ankh-Morpork Goes to War5 April 2016	I have to admit that I'm quite surprised that I have now read 21 of the Discworld books.
Okay, after doing English Literature at university I must admit that my taste in books has changed quite a lot since then, however it is always good to read something that is not all that serious, and Discworld certainly fits the bill.
A chunk of rock suddenly appears in the ocean halfway between them and the nation of Klatch (which seems to be the Middle East, though it sort of has a Turkish flavour to it – though for all we know it could simply be France – they don't have pubs, they have beer gardens).
6/10This is the weakest Watch novel I’ve read to date, quite simply the bar has been set too high in the previous novels meaning that a small blip is quite a noticeable drop in quality.
Then things take a sharp turn and go way off left-field and the Watch go invading like an army in a foreign country, Vetinari enlists Nobbs and Colon to do some spying whilst travelling in a submarine and the humour and high standards that are normally expected take a sharp drop.
Con: largely disposable within the context of Discworld and feels a little like an afterthought.
Surprisingly enjoyable.
A chance to see the Watch characters in a slightly more normal situation and at a relaxed pace, at least in the first half of the book.Summary: I always remembered the downsides and thought this was one of the worst Discworld novels; it's definitely in the bottom half or bottom third, but it's actually much more enjoyable that I thought it was.
Shouldn't be on many favourites lists, but you needn't actively avoid it when reading the Watch books.My review is over on my blog as usual.
„Carrot brandished the spear. ‘And I promise you this,’ he shouted, ‘if we succeed, no one will remember. And if we fail, no one will forget!’Probably one of the worst rallying cries, Vimes thought, since General Pidley’s famous ’Let’s go get our throats cut, boys!’ but it got a huge cheer. And once again he speculated that there was magic going on at some bone-deep level. People followed Carrot out of curiosity.“ Mislim da je Pračet (ili bolje reći Petčet! Ili možda Prapet? Pračpet??) ovde ko
„Carrot brandished the spear.
‘And I promise you this,’ he shouted, ‘if we succeed, no one will remember.
And if we fail, no one will forget!’Probably one of the worst rallying cries, Vimes thought, since General Pidley’s famous ’Let’s go get our throats cut, boys!’ but it got a huge cheer.
Mislim da je Pračet (ili bolje reći Petčet!
Ili možda Prapet?
Pračpet??) ovde konačno stao na noge sa karakterizacijom Kerota, pri čemu je takodje uzeo možda i najzanimljiviju temu za romane Straže do sada - rat.
Vetinari i Vajms su idoli, a humor možda ima i najbolji šala-po-strani odnos u serijalu.
Sve u svemu, Pračet (Petčet?
Prapet??
Pračpet???).
Necu da spojlerisem i bicu kratak...Za sada NAJBOLJI roman o strazi disksveta.Poznati cinik i ironik Pracet dohvatio se politicko-diplomatske tematike i objasnio nam ukratko pocinju ratovi, sta se desava sa ljudima, medjuetnicke sukobe i jos trista nesto svasta.Moram da priznam, citajuci ovu knjigu(kao i uobicajno)u autobusu, vise puta sam bio cudno pogledan,usled cerekanja ili gromoglasnog smeha.Ali na to sam se navikao."Osetljiva" tematika tananih odnosa sa narodom drugacije vere oko teritorije je provucena kroz prizmu humora, ali ipak ostaje ono sto Pracet voli...da nas propisno iskritikuje.Moja topla preporuka za citati minimum jednom godisnje
Where's the oil?This cartoon by Tom Gauld sums it up!Funny dialogue, especially between Colon and Nobbs: Page 29: "The Klatchians invented nothing...They came up with zero.'" ( -- and that's even worse than nothing!)I loved the scene that unfolded when Lord Vetinari sent the stymied Sam Vimes a letter with only his title on it: Sir Samuel Vimes, Knight.
Series: Here are the Discworld books about the City Watch and its commander Sam Vimes, in reading order:Guards!
The books feature con-man turned hero, Moist Von Lipvig,  and a few characters from the City Watch.
This book does not feature Moist Von Lipvig, but it has some City Watch characters.
The appearance of a mysterious island sets Morporkians against Klatchians, despite the fact that most Klatchians living in Ankh-Morpork are second- or third-generation residents, and Sam Vimes and the City Watch end up at the center of the conflict.
(view spoiler)[ At one point, Vimes needs to decide whether to pursue his enemy or stay in Ankh-Morpork to maintain the peace.
Rounding out the cast is the enigmatic ruler of THe Discworld's major city, and the various citizens of that city from thieves and beggars, and bankers, and trying to help keep order over this motley crew is the Watch (police) under the command of Sam Vimes.
They do a hard job.) So, I was delighted to discover this was a Watch book.Jingo is a tale of how war fever sweeps through the city, and how suddenly the people who run the local curry shop are The Enemy, and how we sometimes fight over absurdities.
When I first started this subseries, I didn’t think I was going to like it very much.
Pratchett often uses humor to impart some sort of a message, and I thought this book was one of the better examples of that.
He used humor to point out the ridiculousness of how people tend to divide themselves into “us” and “them” and vilify the “them”, assuming the worst about their intentions and beliefs.
There were a lot of very funny moments, and yet those ridiculously funny things weren’t so terribly far from the behavior of real people in our world.
I don't think I've ever laughed so much because of a book as I have with this one.
Terry Pratchett is a genius of comedic yet poignant writing.
Which makes me that much sadder that he passed away.These books always start off slowly, with one common theme driving a narrative and an important issue and looking it through a ridiculous/comedic glasses in this one it's racism, xenophobia, and overt nationalism.
I would have never thought that the pairing Vetinari, Nobby, and Colon would ever happen or work, but holy shit, so much gold.
I could barely handle Nobby as Beti.Vimes and Carrot also continue to be national treasures.
Excellent Vimes book, and good one to start with. Pratchett's satire of racism, imperialism, and, as the title might suggest, jingoism.Also features fun with the split in the Trousers of Time, Vimes' struggles with his wife's well-meant gift of a Dis-Organizer, and an enjoyable submarine ride with only Leonardo de Quirm, crazy genius, Vetinari, tyrant, Sgt Colin, complete moron, and Nobby Nobbs, possibly human, as passengers.Also features Carrot, the unrecognized king of Ankh Morpork, acting human--he finally breaks his rule about not treating personal a completely separate issue than important.And Vimes has to ride a camel....
(Rincewind technically is as well, but having started The Last Continent earlier today, I'm not convinced reading them in order would make much difference, except for maybe some of the scenes with the University wizards).Also bumping this up, because that last scene between Vetinari and Vimes in the aftermath of the war is a delight.
I like the books better when they're set in a familiar location.I really enjoyed the first half of this, with the watch sort of blundering around Ankh Morpok, with hilarious results.
Not that the intellectual exercise isn't fun, but in terms of a story, sometimes it's lacking.)So I can't give the book four stars, much as I enjoyed it.
Yoink, HAVING THAT.------------From 2012:It's not very often in the next few months that I'm going to get to read a whole book in a day, so I thought, in for a penny, in for a pound, took a Sunday off and settled down with Commander Vimes and a bar of Dairy Milk.It was a good choice.
As it is, I'm too busy giggling in glee at Carrot's myriad organisation of football matches.There seems to be a bit of a theme going on in my reading of late: a lot of it seems to have a very strong pacifist message.
(Relectura Mundodisco #21)Después de las tres novelas anteriores de la guardia, cada una mejor a la anterior, llega la novela que sale perdiendo en la comparativa. No es que no sea brillante, divertida tratando temas serios y con frases memorables, pero eso ya lo doy por hecho al leer a Pratchett, y las anteriores me dejaron mejores sensaciones. Se queda en cuatro estrellas por comparación, también con alguna posterior en la que me gusta más como trata el tema de la guerra.
The sudden appearance of the lost island of Lesh triggers diplomatic tensions between the Ankh Morporkians and their neighbours from Klatsch and when diplomacy seems to fail spectacularly, the time has come to go to war.In Jingo, Pratchett takes full advantage of the story to aim his arrows on warfare and the bullshit reasons wars are started in the first place, all set against another mystery for the Guards to solve.Sadly Angua takes a bit of a backseat thoughout this one, but Pratchett makes up for it by having Cpl. Nobs and Sgt. Colon take on a secret mission for the Patrician.
“Don’t we pay our taxes?” “Ah, I thought we might come to that,” said Lord Vetinari.
While, at the same time, full of rich people“And you have allowed this wholesale tax avoidance?” said Lord Selachii.
“Oh, the taxes haven’t been avoided,” said Lord Vetinari.
A strange foreign country across the sea, a moneyed aristocracy eager to send young men off to war, political operatives using a flimsy pretext to incite nationalist and racist fervor to encourage said war....Sounds unpleasantly familiar, which is probably why I was drawn to reading this book.This is one of the Watch books in the Discworld series, and like so many of those books deals with the intersection between law and politics.
In this case, a mysterious island surfaces halfway between the great city-state of Ankh-Morpork and the desert empire of Klatch.
In this story, he’s especially amazing, cleverly interpreting the law and putting himself in danger to help stop a war.
He’s a wonderful combination of honesty, decency, persistence and cynicism.
He’s a delightful character, with his naïve honesty and natural goodness.
If only Carrot could master the finer points of punctuation and spelling.) And it’s fun to picture such a big, redheaded Scot type in some of the outrageous situations he finds himself in—including the sort of Lawrence of Arabia with football bits in this story.
His efforts to defuse the war in this story are brilliant.
In the end, this shouldn't be a difficult endeavor, after all Klatch is very much indebted to the Ankh Morpork.
It wasn’t spying when you had to stand back a bit so that you weren’t deafened.Vimes’s approach to paperwork was not to touch it until someone was shouting, and then at least there would be someone to help him sort through the stacks.“By the way, do you think anyone saw you up there?”“I doubt it, sir.
It sounded like a low, continuous growl.“I think you ought to be able to tell me what you stole,” said Carrot.“Er…rings?
He likes to get a good view.”“He’s a gnome!”“Well done, sir.”“Another one of yours?”“Ours, sir,” said Carrot, using his reproachful voice again.
Things that we can’t quite see that will destroy us; the Lovecraftian terrors lurking in the waters; the Lovecraftian terrors lurking in politics and little tubes; the relation between a people and their rightful leaders; the relation between kings and racism.
I remember the thrill seeing how this book played with things we were playing with in class.
Pratchett’s books have always made me happy and made me feel a little less alienated.
Reading it nearly 20 years later, it doesn’t seem as deep; the play doesn’t keep unfolding the way some of the books still do for me.
But still, I love it.PS -- just read it again and my god I wish Vetinari was our president.
Este libro me ha salvado un viaje de 7 horas en avión.La saga de La guardia mejora a medida que avanza y Pratchett va mostrando nuevos y apasionantes aspectos de su maravilloso universo.A destacar las reflexiones sobre lo absurdo de la guerra y los prejuicios interculturales, y el análisis de como las mentes ignorantes pergeñan excusas para justificar lo injustificable, la guerra.Además, la trama sorprende con buenos giros, y tiene alguna que otra referencia lovecraftiana muy velada.Lesph, ¿R'lyeh?
4.5* This satire of jingoism is hilarious but also sadly appropriate these days. I wish that the United States had a Lord Vetinari and/or a Commander Vimes to balance out our Lord Rusts...I loved seeing Carrot (now a captain) in action once again. And Leonard of Quirms made me chuckle to myself several times...
Reading this book reminds me just what a loss to the world the passing of Terry Pratchett was. A master wordsmith.
I - and quite a few other Pratchett fans I knew - thought it was probably the worst thing Pterry had ever written.
I simply couldn't understand why people like A.S. Byatt praised it so highly, when it was clearly the Worst.
Re-reading it now, I can completely understand why I thought that.
If you approach Jingo expecting straightforward comic fantasy with many humorous references to real life then there really is no way you aren't going to be disappointed, because straightforward is the last thing Jingo is.
With many humorous reference to real life, just for incidental amusement.
