https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/17158596-collide
"Then what do you want from me Gavin?" she asked, her voice an aggravated whisper.He caught her by the chin and made her look at him, his eyes-that light, wild blue- blazing into hers.
here it comes....my heart pitter patters)Gavin Blake is waiting down stairs at his office building for his food but his typical delivery guy doesn't show up, nope, in walks Emily and takes Gavin's breath away.
Every...Single...inch of your body is going to feel me."~~ Gavin
I am so thrilled to have found this book that I connected with and fell in love with deeply.
A period is needed as a separator between the action and the dialogue, not a comma.While I had many issues with this book, the biggest annoyance for me was Emily herself.
I don’t care how much Dillon, her boyfriend, did for her in the past.
“So you went swimming I see,” Dillon remarked, peeling the shirt from his body as he and Emily entered their room.
“Very good observation,” she laughed.Dillon walked into the bathroom, turned on the shower, and got in.
I didn’t understand why he and Dillon were even friends.
I don’t know why Gavin put up with Dillon.
Okie dokie.I just need to get a few things out of the way before I can tell you how awesome this book is. I know what you’re thinking… “Wait. But you gave only it three stars, Ash. WTF?”Right you are, friends!But there’s a very specific reason as to why I downgraded this book from having a four-star review.  THE HEROINE  Emily Cooper.AKA the heroine who couldn’t make a decision to save her life.Let me break this down for you:Emily’s boyfriend, Dillon, is a narcissistic, money-greedy asshole. He
Emily Cooper.AKA the heroine who couldn’t make a decision to save her life.Let me break this down for you:Emily’s boyfriend, Dillon, is a narcissistic, money-greedy asshole.
He’s possessive (and not in the fun way… more like the take-that-fucking-dress-off-everyone’s-going-to-think-you’re-a-fucking-whore way), controlling, vindictive, and manipulative.
And there you will everything that is Dillon.And see, here’s where the whole decision thing comes into place.Because Emily meets another guy, Gavin Blake.
I want the late-night drives, the sunset watching, the screaming, the yelling, and the crying.” Still kissing her, he smiled against her mouth.
Throughout 80% of the book… Emily can’t make a decision between these two guys.***And I’m like:
5 Drop whatever you’re doing are read this book RIGHT NOW stars :D Absolutely fantastic! This story kept me on the edge of my seat and completely held my attention. I couldn’t put it down, just had to know what was going to happen next! Attracting, compelling, colliding, their chemistry- to say the least- was explosive. The summer after her senior year of college, Emily moves from her home in Colorado to New York City to be closer to her boyfriend Dillon. Since her mother died of breast cancer,
The summer after her senior year of college, Emily moves from her home in Colorado to New York City to be closer to her boyfriend Dillon.
Gavin and Emily both feel an instant attraction, a spark right away.Now...
I could easily spend this whole review swooning and going on about how much I LOVE Gavin Blake...
You get the picture...No matter how hard Gavin tries, he can’t get Emily out of his mind.
That makes things a little more complicated.Dillion is everything Emily wanted in a boyfriend, but he’s not Gavin.
No matter how much Gavin and Emily try to fight their feeling for each other, they can’t stay away.
★★★★! Collide (book 1). One woman, two men & one heck of a roller-coaster of lust, jealousy, seduction, betrayal & an intense against-all-odds love!   “Damn it, Emily, I want us! You belong with me, not him.”   Spoiler alert! Though the book blurbs in the Collide series do not make a secret of who the intended hero and heroine are for this love triangle, I’d say if you rather remain surprised stop reading right now, don’t peek at the blurbs and just enjoy the unfolding!The Collide serie
In the coming days Emily resists Gavin’s attempts at flirtation only to, shortly thereafter, again be introduced to Gavin who is her boyfriend’s close friend and VIP client.
Six words to describe Gavin: Memorable, noble, intense, charming, captivating and… shmexy.
Emily Cooper is what the story needed to keep the triangle going and though she annoyed me at times I kept reminding myself, she is what Gavin wants.
I really enjoyed their story, very much thanks to Gavin.
I received an ARC copy from the author in exchange for an honest review... Attracting, compelling, colliding, their chemistry-to say the least-was explosive. Where to begin? Emily Cooper is a beautiful young woman who is as unmistakably genuine as she is decidedly naive...EmilyShe has just lost her mother to cancer and is moving away from her small town to join her boyfriend, Dillon Parker, in New York. Dillon has been there for her in every way imaginable when it came to her mother's illness. F
She knows where she stands though, she is not one to be dishonest to the very man who was there for her in her most trying time...As luck would have it, Emily does in fact get to know Gavin and be in his life.
Emily, Dillon and Gavin's story was an interesting one.
Other times, I wanted to punch Dillon in the face.
I loved the advice her best friend gave her, letting her know that even though things aren't always black and white, it doesn't mean that it needs to get the best of you and make you doubt your self worth......"Sometimes bad choices bring us to the right people, Emily."...
"When you want something this badly, you don't just give up. You fight and fight until you absolutely can't fight anymore."  4 Angsty Stars!You know it's a good book when it takes you into this roller coaster ride of emotions. I swear this book brought on many feels! Normally I don't appreciate books that have something to do with complicated love triangles, but this one seemed to be an exception. Collide, the first book of Collide series, started when Emily Coooper moved to New York to attain
4 Angsty Stars!You know it's a good book when it takes you into this roller coaster ride of emotions.
But she's in a relationship with Dillon, so it shouldn't be possible for her to get attracted to Gavin.What struck me while reading this book was the huge amount angst in it.
All throughout the book, I was really rooting for Emily and Gavin to be together and hoped that she will immediately break up with Dillon.
Definitely going to read the second book!
"I want the good, the bad, and the in-between.
Yes, there is a massive cliffhanger at the end, but it is soooo worth the ride.-----------------------Holy roller coaster ride from cover to cover!! And I LOVE roller coasters!-----------------------You will fall in LOVE with Gavin Blake over and over again. click here for my image of a very frustrated, (add a few more adjectives of your own ;-) )Gavin-----------------------------------------------As they argued in the rain, my heart ached and broke for Gavin... “Tell me right here and now that
And I LOVE roller coasters!-----------------------You will fall in LOVE with Gavin Blake over and over again.
“Tell me right here and now that you don’t love me, and I’ll walk away.
I’ll walk away, and you’ll never have to see me again.” With his free hand, he tilted her neck back.
Emily couldn’t help it, but a light moan left her lips.
Tell me right now that you don’t love me, and I’m gone…forever.”--“Thank you for the permanent scar,” he whispered, his voice broken and defeated.--Tonight, loneliness, hurt, confusion, and pain would visit both Emily and Gavin.
I FUCKING LOVED HATED IT!!!!
I think I may be permanently scarred by this one.So after contemplating a review for this book, all I can tell you is that I feel like I'm sitting on the scariest and most exhilarating roller coaster ride I've ever been on.
But the ride has ended, and I don't want to get off...
but I FUCKING DON'T WANT TO GO!!!!!
I WANT TO KEEP RIDING!!!!!
so saying anything about the story is saying too much.
the story is riveting, and gut retching, and without a dull moment.
and here are my pics...Emily Cooper[image error]
Olivia[image error]
5 OH MY GOD GAVIN BLAKE STARS!!!
I've always been a reader and there have been periods of times in my life where I took a break maybe to study or when I had my children etc....I loved the babysitters club when I was a teenager then a few years later I found love with the twilight series and read them all in a week, I couldn't find anything at the time that hooked me so stopped but then the one and only Fifty shades of grey came out which left me like HOLY SHIT where do I go now?
"Death seemed to bring out a completely different way of looking at life once someone was gone."Emily starts a temporary job at a restaurant over the summer while she waits till a permanent position comes up as a school teacher, she has to take an order to Mr Blake after her shift, they meet and well Mr Blake of Blake Industry's makes Emily want to do the naughtiest of things with him(in her mind) and there attraction to each is instant, their chemistry to say the least is explosive.
It’s just one of those books that consume you, that grab hold of your heart, squeeze hard and don’t let go right until the last few devastating words The story is told in the third person and, as the reader, we have a birds-eye view of everything that is happening while the central characters only know half the truth – it’s almost like watching a car wreck in ultra slow motion.
All you can do is watch in horror completely unable to look away and this is how I felt reading this book.I understood how Emily felt – she cares deeply for Dillon but is falling hard for Gavin and nothing she can do or any guilt she carries can stop this.
Ok, you all know I love my Badass Alpha males, but now and again I like to read about a decent, nice, honourable guy and Gavin Blake sure is one of them.
Emily sort of annoyed me a bit when she automatically jumped to a conclusion when a certain person answered the door but hey, we got to build for the next book!GAVIN …"She’s out there son, and when you find her, you’ll know it the very second you see her.
Without any regard to the natural order of things, she’ll just … appear."EMILY …"Every part of you was made for me.
Earlier in the book, she actually sees Dillon and Monica kissing and takes him back.
However, when she sees Gina open the door sans pants, she completely freaks, cuts all communication with Gavin (allowing him no explanation), and gets back together with Dillon (the manhandling s.o.b.).
On one hand, I understand her reaction with Gavin was supposed to be more dramatic because she feels deeper for him.
Why doesn't she see that she does not have to be with either Gavin or Dillon.
The book ends with her leaving Dillon asleep to run back to Gavin.
Girl, he basically just raped you!I really didn't like this book.
Well well well, I have a serious love/hate relationship with this damn book. Being a self-professed angst whore, I've officially found a book that has so much angst and senseless drama, it drove me batshit cray-cray! Ah, I feel slightly better getting that off my chest. The bulk of this book my feelings were a bit like this- Seriously. If you hate love triangles or wishy washy heroines who've got men falling over them for NO reason, this book is NOT for you. Now, upon meeting Gavin Blake, I was
Ah, I feel slightly better getting that off my chest.
The bulk of this book my feelings were a bit like this-
Now, upon meeting Gavin Blake, I was seriously feeling...
But the cliffy end, ya know, the one that made me (thank God) put off reading this series until Pulse came out...well, that ending is sure to make you feel....a little nervous?
All I've gotta say is the start of Pulse better give me some...
Followed by a bit of Gavin and Emily...
There, I feel so much better.
5 INFURIATING STARS  Collide  By Gail McHughGenres: Contemporary Romance/Drama Collide is a love story. It's a story about a girl called Emily Cooper . Emily moves to New York City with her boyfriend Dillon Parker, Dillon takes care of Emily, he provides everything she needs and especially after her mother's death, he was there for her, emotionally and financially! and she loves him...Then she meets Gavin Blake New York most eligible bachelor, he's sexy, smart,and charming as hell! At the time
At the time she didn't realize that(view spoiler)[he was her boyfriend's best friend  (hide spoiler)] and when she meets him "officially " her feelings are not certain anymore, she's confused , unhappy,and turned on!As the story goes we see how Dillon treats her, and how Gavin treats her.
Maybe she couldn't i'll give her that, you see Dillon is a dick with a capital D he's cruel and asshole, he treats her like a trophy, if he said jump she'll say how high????Olivia > Emily's friend Hates him and he hates her, she always telling her how ass he's being to her(Emily) then emily jumps to defend him by saying "oh no he's not, he sweet ohhhh i love him " Bitch give me a break!!!He helped her financially as i said earlier when her mother's death and also when she moved to new york BUT he won't let her forget it!!
okay okay so you want me to tell you WHY I loved this book so much well that is easy and I can even sum it up in TWO words yep that's right only TWO words....GAVIN BLAKE!!This wonderful man captured my heart and my soul and even totally aside from this: Emily's description of him"Yes, he was that good looking.
I personally didn't like Dillon from the get go, I don't care what he did, and for very good reason!!After that emotional roller coaster was over Emily moved to New York where Dillon lived although she wasn't ready to move in with him just yet, (I am secretly thanking God here) she decided to room with her friend Olivia and I just loved Olivia!!
2 ~This book would have been so much better without Emily in it!~ StarsDear Emily, My Emily:I didn't hate this book. I enjoyed the story. The writing wasn't anything special, but the overall book wasn't that bad. Gavin was the best part of this book. He is a sweetie pie who does says some really swoony stuff. I even got turned on a couple times, so that's always a plus.My Gavin:I can't even talk about Emily without getting upset...So I will just say this...Emily = CowardDillon doesn't even deser
2 ~This book would have been so much better without Emily in it!~ StarsDear Emily,
My Emily:I didn't hate this book.
I enjoyed the story.
The writing wasn't anything special, but the overall book wasn't that bad.
Gavin was the best part of this book.
He is a sweetie pie who does says some really swoony stuff.
I even got turned on a couple times, so that's always a plus.My Gavin:I can't even talk about Emily without getting upset...So I will just say this...Emily = CowardDillon doesn't even deserve to be cast!
His face can fucking burn and melt off, for all I care!
"Words fail to describe the way you look this evening." (Gavin) Emily smiled sheepishly.
Characters calling their friend, brother, sister, pal etc.
"Care to dance with the woman who brought you into this world?"  That was Trevor and Gavin's mom asking Trevor to dance with him.
Actually my dislike of him was mostly still rooted to the way he talks: "You're playing with fire man." (Trevor) "I can handle the burn.
To actually (view spoiler)[ go back and marry Dillon because she thought Gavin was sleeping with Gina without plans of telling him even when he flat out asked  (hide spoiler)] is such a dick thing to do.
I loved the way your lips felt against mine, and I’m pretty sure you did, too.
Your lips were made to kiss mine, your eyes were made to wake up to me looking at you in my bed every morning, and your f***ing tongue was made to roll my name off of it.
“I want the date nights, the movie watching, and the breakfast making.” He dragged his hands through her hair, his teeth tugging gently at her bottom lip.
“I want the late-night drives, the sunset watching, the screaming, the yelling, and the crying.” Still kissing her, he smiled against her mouth.
The story was a great read and had me excited to get back to see what was going to happen next even though the word CLIFFHANGER was mentioned by more than one friend.
Emily moves to New York to live with her college best friend and be close to her boyfriend Dillon.
Emily is starting over after the loss of her mother and is excited for a new beginning.Emily meets Gavin Blake businessman (total book boyfriend material) and sparks fly between the two.
Emily finds that Gavin is in fact one of her boyfriend’s friends and well that makes for a problem seeing him around because well he is….
Por fin he tenido tiempo para poder terminar la primera parte de esta historia. Me ha encantado, me ha venido de lujo después del último libro que leí para el Reto Rita, tiene un poquito de todo. Emily la protagonista femenina a veces te saca un poco de quicio y Gavin es mucho Gavin, te gusta desde el minuto uno que empiezas a leer. Dillon no lo soporto es el típico personaje odioso pero es indispensable en la historia. veremos que pasa en la segunda parte...
I will not spoil everything about how they met, you will have to read the book and believe in destiny:)Things progress in a natural manner, Emily's path intersected with Gavin's many times and in all of them we can see how different he is from Dillon.
A lot of mistakes are made by Emily because she wanted to do the right thing, but sometimes destiny has other plans for you.This book had one of the most intense love scenes I have ever read, without being too much, too exaggerated.
It had the right amount of love, sensuality and passion that needed to be included in the book, and made the scenes look fantastic and hot.
RECIPE FOR COLLIDEIngredients:1 cup of TSTL heroine – Emily.1 cup of Douchebag Boyfriend - Dillon.2 cups of Hot and sexy millionaire friend of Dillon – Gavin.1 cup of great fun loving BFF – Olivia.3 tbsp.
of wonderful secondary characters - Trevor, Fallon and Colton.Huge handfuls of drama and angst.And of course a dash of tears.Method:Mix well in a huge bowl, put in a non-stick pan and place in a moderately hot oven for about 1 hour until brown.
Voila you have a wonderful love triangle that will have you hooked in no time.
Filled with angst, drama that make up a good new adult read.4 enjoyable happy stars!
I was given Collide as an ARC by the author in exchange for an honest review.4  Beautiful Colliding Stars!After the devastating death in her family, Emily Cooper made the ultimate decision to start new and fresh, by leaving her small town and joining her boyfriend, Dillon Parker, in New York City. Even though this was a huge step in their relationship Emily wasn’t quite ready to live with Dillon and therefore moved in with her best friend Olivia.While trying to cope with the loss, Emily began li
I was given Collide as an ARC by the author in exchange for an honest review.4 ½ Beautiful Colliding Stars!After the devastating death in her family, Emily Cooper made the ultimate decision to start new and fresh, by leaving her small town and joining her boyfriend, Dillon Parker, in New York City.
How could you NOT fall in love with a man that’s a mixture of your two ULTIMATE book boyfriends!
There were other times I wanted to hug her and tell her “I know it’s hard!
I’m sorry you’re going through this, but go with your heart!” But THEN I wanted to slap the living days out of her AGAIN.Collide will take you on an emotional, devastating, yet delicious, love-triangle of a roller coaster.
I loved Gavin, my feelings yo-yo'd for Emily and hated Dillon!!!
Gavin's friend Trevor is super cute.In Collide Emily moves to New York to be nearer her boyfriend, Dillon, and best friend, Olivia, after the death of her mother.
If you would've told me the day we met that you were going to break my heart - and that days, months, or even years would pass, that I would still be hurting like this - it wouldn't have stopped me from falling in love with you."
I luuurrrved the way Gavin wanted Emily.
I received an ARC copy from the author in exchange for an honest review...4.5 Stars!! Collide is Freaking Phenomenal! I'm so glad that this was the book to start off my 2013! I love the way Gail McHugh writes! Her prose is so smooth, the story flowed seamlessly. I think one of my favorite things about this book was the fact that there was so much raw emotion that bled from its pages.  Emily: Her character developed beautifully. Broken, but hanging on to the things she holds dear. Her boyfriend,
Things seem to be coming together, until.....(enter incredibly, painfully gorgeous, dreamy, fu*kable, amazing, charming Gavin.)
The things that he makes Emily feel *sigh*....Fate definitely had a good time with these two, and it will have you holding your breath, jaw dropping to the floor,and smiling like a fool!
Gail does a wonderful job at making you feel like you are part of everything that's going on throughout the whole book.
By the end, if you don't already feel like you know the characters personally, you may need to re-read it 'cause you definitely missed something.
She moves in with her best friend from college, Olivia.
Gavin is in hot pursuit.......until he meets his friend Dillon and his girlfriend at a club and all hopes of having Emily comes crashing down around him.
Gavin knows that Dillon isn't treating Emily the way she deserves to be treated.
They have a very strong sexual chemistry but they also develop a very good friendship.When things comes crashing down in Emily's world, Gavin is there to pick her up.
She’s independent, compassionate, sweet and came across quite strong at this juncture of the story.At this point we are also introduced to her boyfriend Dillon who comes across as loving, thoughtful and caring.
After all, she is deeply in love with Dillon.I really did enjoy hearing both Gavin and Emily’s voices in this story and it enabled me to experience his instant attraction and the overall intense feelings he had for Emily that he couldn’t explain.
⋰⋱⋰⋱⋰⋱*No, just no*⋰⋱⋰⋱⋰⋱  I hated this book. I couldn't stand the main character Emily ‘Em’ ‘Country’ Cooper (24). I hated her boyfriend, Dillon Parker and I didn't like the story at all. The only thing that I did like was Gavin Blake (28). And maybe Emily's roommate and one of her closest friends, Olivia ‘Liv’ Martin who actually tried to make some sense into idiot and naive Emily, but didn't try heard enough. I hate weak characters. I hate naive characters and Emily was big on both. She has
I hated this book.
I couldn't stand the main character Emily ‘Em’ ‘Country’ Cooper (24).
I hated her boyfriend, Dillon Parker and I didn't like the story at all.
The only thing that I did like was Gavin Blake (28).
I hate weak characters.
I hate naive characters and Emily was big on both.
She has now entered my list of most hated/disliked characters.
(hide spoiler)]Cheating?
- (view spoiler)[Yes.
- (view spoiler)[Yes.
(hide spoiler)]HEA?
- (view spoiler)[No.
(hide spoiler)]Favorite character?
- Gavin Blake.Would I read more by this author/or of series?
- Probably not.Would I recommend this book/series?
or are they really really good ;) Well, this is one of those books that I seriously cannot give you too much of the plot line but I CAN and will give you some glimpses of the book through my eyes.............You have Olivia who is bad arse and doesn't fancy Dillon at all her typical reaction when he walks in the room is....................Trevor he's a pretty cool dude and I really liked him but his like Switzerland when things start going down..........I can't forget this................................I really wish I read this..............Wait, was there?In any event the relationships were complex and when I say relationships I don't mean just Dillon & Emily.
