https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/5931.The_Essential_Neruda
The Chilean Pablo Neruda is officially the sexiest poet ever, which, like, do you think that worked out well for him?
I know what you're thinking, you're like what, are you crazy, people love poets, they get all kinds of horny for poets, read a girl/boy a poem and it's like guaranteed sploosh/sproing.
Ask yourself this: the situations you're thinking of when you say this, where some person or other was entranced by some romantic sexy dark brooding poet, did they happen in real life?
Are you thinking of Mary Shelley and that's all you got?Here's what poets are like in real life: they are very poor and they want to talk all the fucking time.
I want you to knowone thing.You know how this is:if I lookat the crystal moon, at the red branchof the slow autumn at my window,if I touchnear the firethe impalpable ashor the wrinkled body of the log,everything carries me to you,as if everything that exists,aromas, light, metals,were little boatsthat sailtoward those isles of yours that wait for me.Well, now,if little by little you stop loving meI shall stop loving you little by little.If suddenlyyou forget medo not look for me,for I shall alr
I want you to knowone thing.You know how this is:if I lookat the crystal moon, at the red branchof t
Awesome, inspiring, picturesque, soothing, thought provoking, challenging, mystified, saddening - Neruda takes his reader through a plethora of the feelings, all the while never leaving his hand.
And the reader would cling to it like a kid, fascinated to explore this new world full of wonders.
Many of the poems are subtly erotic and one couldn't help but feel how much in love he must be; for following his praise comes his vivid feelings full of love.
Well, I couldn't find the immaturity in the poems.
I'm just short of crying in despair; there were so many books and so much highlighting job I did.
Someone asked me why I had so many different copies of Neruda and I answered because no one book ever has all the poems or the translations that I want. That's the tricky thing about Neruda. It's also the reason I like dual translation editions, so I can see the original right next to the English.
I'll say that this, my first dip into the Neruda universe, affected me more than any encounter with 20th century poetry I've yet had.
They're natural yet dark, the elements imbedded in them, even deteriorating, but becoming richer to the senses for the decline.
The poems are arranged on a, more than less, chronological level.
I found it a bit depressing that the last poems, such as "The Egoist," found the man self-critical for his withdrawal from the world.
He had given so much of himself to progress, and, in the early 1970s, was sensing early on the decline of the Left's advancements in the world.
Who wouldn’t love Pablo Neruda?My long-standing love affair with him started during Humanities class in college, when my professor made us read and interpret “Tonight I Can Write”. I found it to be the saddest poem, but it was also hauntingly beautiful and enthralling, and held deeper connection with my own juvenile heartache. Since then I never stopped getting moved by his poetry.
So glad I read this in both English and Spanish.
I can write the saddest verses tonightWrite, for example, "The night is full of stars,  twinkling blue, in the distance."The night wind spins in the sky and sings.
She loved me, at times I loved her too.
How not to have loved her great still eyes.
And the verse falls onto my soul like dew onto grass.
What difference that my love could not keep her.
The night is full of stars, and she is not with me.
In the distance, someone sings.
My soul is not at piece with having lost her.
I love his work.

This bilingual book of poems was published in 2004, the centennial celebration of Pablo Neruda's birth.
The collection gives an overview of his writing over the lifetime of this great Latin American poet.
The poems presented include some sensual love poems, and some political poems about both Chile and the Spanish Civil War. He wrote earthy poems about vineyards, gardens, the sea, and the ruins of Macchu Picchu.
He also wrote a series of odes to various objects.
This is the beginning of Neruda's poem about his vocation in "Poetry":"And it was at that age...poetry arrivedin search of me.
To enter Neruda's world is to enter a place where words speak the unspeakable, words of power, class, and love. Neruda strips his world down to the essentials, and then cooks a feast of words on top of that, creating a sense of luxury, magic, and sometimes despair. His perspective is an essential one for the twentieth century.
Tonight I can write the saddest lines.Write, for example,'The night is shatteredand the blue stars shiver in the distance.'The night wind revolves in the sky and sings.Tonight I can write the saddest lines.I loved her, and sometimes she loved me too.Through nights like this one I held her in my armsI kissed her again and again under the endless sky.She loved me sometimes, and I loved her too.How could one not have loved her great still eyes.Tonight I can write the saddest lines.To think that I do not have her.
He is also perhaps the greatest poet writing/having written in the Spanish language.
Certainly his poetry transcends time - and this edition offers both the original Spanish and beautifully translated English versions.
It's a great learning experience for people taking Spanish classes (like I am now).
It's as if you weren't here now,and you heard me from a distance, and my voicecouldn't reach you.It's as if your eyes had flown away from you, and as ifyour mouth were closed because I leaned to kiss you.Just as all living things are filled with my soul,you emerge from all living things filled with the soul ofme.It's as if, a butterfly in dreams, you were my soul,and as if you were the soul's word, melancholy.RH (7)The title of "Essential Neruda" is apt in this collection not just for the beautiful and passionate love poetry that draws us initially to Neruda's works, but the love expanded into all of one's fellow men, especially the poor and working classes, and even those imprisoned.
“death’s arrival on the ox’s tongue” “come near with an apple and a horse,/because there in lies a dark living room and a shattered candelabrum,/a few bent chairs waiting on winter,/and a dove, dead, with a number.” “when the furious condor, like a horseshoe of red-cased wings/hammers my temples in the order of flight” “let us spread great tablecloths,/put salt in the lakes of the world,/set up planetary bakeries,/tables with strawberries in snow,/and a plate like the moon itself/from which we can all eat.” “death in the bedsteads:/in the slow mattresses, in the black blankets/death stretches out like a clothesline, and then suddenly blows:/blows a dark sound that swells the sheets/and beds are sailing into a harbor/where death is waiting, dressed as an admiral.” Well, what can one say or do other than bow to his genius.
I don't have this book, but I've read most of the poems online. And let me tell you, they are gorgeous poems. Very descriptive and raw. Love. Love. Love.
Each time I read them I find something different, something beautiful and sad and mind blowing.
This I can pick up and just enjoy.Language used in this way is just so beautiful.If you like any form of romance I dare you not to love Neruda and his poems.This copy has spanish on one side and the translated English on the other so you can enjoy both.
This is some of the most romantic and moving, and sexual and crazy and beautiful poetry I've ever read.It was like 6 pounds from Amazon.
Some were beautiful (I especially loved 'I Can Write The Saddest Verses Tonight'), some I couldn't even begin to understand (Which totally saddens me) but the poem that got me reading this book was 'I Do Not Love You....
I chanced upon a line in Anna and the French Kiss and that COMPLETELY made me certain I had to get my hands on a Neruda piece, no matter what.
I don't know, I always read it the way I first chanced upon the line.
It seems that the translation in this book differs a little from..
If you enjoy poetry, if you're prone to being knocked sideways by a simple group of words perfectly formed, expressing a thought or feeling - then you've got to stop what you're doing and get your hands on a copy of this book!
You can't help but fall in love with him and with poetry in general.
Honestly, if its possible to feel at home, to feel safe and secure and loved by a book, then this is the one, its like the great man is right there with you, helping you to inhabit every line.
Every word perfect, but more importantly, his poetry has a flow that leaves me gasping at the end of each poem, raised up by each conclusion.
He seems as much a composer as a poet with the swell of each poetic melody creating tears, joy, an unexpected hitch in the throat.He captures fundamental insights with brilliance.
Goodread readers will enjoy Ode to the Book (II) which starts:"Book, beautifulbook, miniscule forest,leafafter leafyour paper smells of the elements,Il Pueblo had me in tears as did Il Fugitivo and I Explain Some Things.
This is the first book of poetry Ive ever read from cover to cover in my life. Ive always felt drawn to Pablo Nerudas poetry. Probably because Ive lived in Chile. But there was some good stuff in this collection!Neruda is a master at capturing feelings of nostalgia and remembrance of times gone-by. I want this particular ditty on my gravestone/urn:It's the hourwhen leaves fall, trituratedacross the ground, whenout of being and unbeing they return to their source,their gold and green stripped awa
This is the first book of poetry I´ve ever read from cover to cover in my life. I´ve always felt drawn to Pablo Neruda´s poetry. Probably because I´ve lived in Chile. But there was some good stuff in this collection!Neruda is a master at capturing feelings of nostalgia and remembrance of times gone-by. I want this particular ditty on my gravestone/urn:It's the hourwhen leaves fall, trituratedacross the ground, whenout of being and unbeing they return to their source,their gold and green stripped awayuntil they've gone to root againand again, undone and reborn,they lift their heads into spring.
Forget his politics, they are irrelevant in the context of the literary value of this incredible poet. Neruda's poems are like no other. Nobody is capable of such sensuality through poetry, everything he writes evokes a visceral reaction whilst maintaining a sort of unattainable beauty. Nature, women and love are interchangeable throughout. Unfortunately the poem translations into English lose some of the 'Neruda' about them. Read in Spanish if you can.
In the end, everyone is aware of this:nobody keeps any of what he has,and life is only a borrowing of bones.The best thing was learning not to have too mucheither of sorrow or of joy,to hope for the chance of a last drop,to ask more from honey and from twilight.- Neruda, 'October Fullness'
The present moment is the place a poet tries to occupy. Long dead or not yet born? Poetically unknowable and interchangeable. The place that can be illuminated is right now, where all the dead and yet to be born intersect. Or it may just be I love beautiful words and the images they conjure. No matter-it's time well experienced.
This is my first reading of Neruda and I was a little underwhelmed. I know that reading translated poetry is often an unsatisfactory experience, but I don't read Spanish. Some of the poems were a bit "clunky" and I don't know if the rhythms and word choices of the translators are to blame, or if Neruda had his clunky moments.Anyway, a less than transcendent reading experience for me.
Having the untranslated poems right next to the English versions made this extra-glorious for me.
Love this!
'the infinite beat of the sea and of doubt...' because. just because.
Nobody knows about love, writes about love, like Pablo Neruda. What can I say about him that would ever be enough?
