https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6202318-a-touch-of-dead
(B+) 76% | GoodNotes: Kind of like finding and placing the missing (hinted at) pieces of a jigsaw puzzle and seeing a more complete picture.
Now, if you've chosen to play this joke on someone capable of experiencing love, wait for them to breathlessly return them to you.
Then, when they ask you what other books you like, loan them the Sookie Stackhouse novels.
Wait until they've gotten through the first three books, and then ask them what they thought of the part where Sookie was finger-banged by a manticore.
What makes this even better is that, as they continue through the books, they'll wish you had been telling the truth.These books are trash.
I can not, however, bring myself to stop reading them.
*** 3.33 ***Fairy triplets, an old Vamp in spandex onezy, a dead relative, a very lucky insurance agent, and the last one where grandpa becomes a pimp! Not bad, just nothing too special... "...“Vampires like fairies the way dogs like bones : great toys , good food.”..."
Fairy Dust(view spoiler)[ I have no idea how Sookie worked out who killed Claudette. (hide spoiler)]DraculaReally quite odd. (view spoiler)[ not sure how Sookie got away with killing that vamp, no matter how annoying he was! (hide spoiler)]One Word AnswerShort story about Hadley's death, and I didn't like the one word answer when two questions were asked! Which question was she answering? LuckyOkay story, not sure why they thought themselves lucky though.Gift Wrap(view spoiler)[ not impressed. W
Fairy Dust(view spoiler)[ I have no idea how Sookie worked out who killed Claudette.
(hide spoiler)]DraculaReally quite odd.
(view spoiler)[ not sure how Sookie got away with killing that vamp, no matter how annoying he was!
(hide spoiler)]One Word AnswerShort story about Hadley's death, and I didn't like the one word answer when two questions were asked!
Which question was she answering?
LuckyOkay story, not sure why they thought themselves lucky though.Gift Wrap(view spoiler)[ not impressed.
What kind of great-grandfather gets his great-grandaughter a one night stand for Christmas?
And how unlike sookie was it to actually partake?
(hide spoiler)]6.5 out of 10["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>
The book cover is mesmerising (red on black is beautiful)The illustrations are absolutely incredible The stories are really witty and straight to the point Fairy dust - I love Claude and Claudine, I literally adore them.
Fantastic who done it type story.Dracula night - straight to the point, delivered a lot of charm and the writing style was beautiful.
Lucky - typical style of story writing, a story I would need to read a couple of times to really grasp what is happening.Gift wrap - brilliant and interesting.
Bizarrely, this book of short stories made me think less of every character appearing in them.Fairy Dust: Not very illuminating.
Only useful as backstory for the series, where Hadley becomes more important.
---spoilers---In one story, Jason gets semi-slandered, Sookie replays the first chapters of Book 4 with a total stranger, and Niall proves to be some sort of supernatural pimp.
So Sookie finds a man nearly dead in the woods, then defends him from a pack who show up to get him back, and then she has sex with the injured stranger.
This is gross, and I think less of EVERYONE INVOLVED.
Somehow, these stories left me with the feeling that I just read a short advertisement for the Sookie Stackhouse series.
I mean, Harris spends so much time explaining every single stinking detail of Sookie, her life, her friends in Bon Temps and the surrounding area, that very little story is left for the actual ...
But a short story should be it's own little mini-novel, right?
She should have spent more time on content, less on the explaining of every aspect of Sookie's life.
or any number of things that Harris needs to stop writing for the hundredth time.
And if a short story is good ...
Rating: three and a half smiley stars of fiveThe Publisher Says: New York Times bestselling author Charlaine Harris has re-imagined the supernatural world with her “spunky” (Tampa Tribune) Southern Vampire novels starring telepathic waitress Sookie Stackhouse.
Sookie Stackhouse in short tales that are placed within the Sookie-verse in gaps between the books.
And sex.I will never offer these books as evidence of the cultural superiority of the Western world, but I also won't keep 'em behind the other books on the bookshelf, embarrassed to have anyone see that I read Charlaine Harris.
Yippee!!!!The library finally has 4 copies, at least, and I've dropped to #3 on the waiting list :):)Oh yeahoh yeahoh yeah!I've had the emailIt's sitting waiting for me.Just in time for the long weekend :) :)Oh dear.
It's too quick to read!
Read one before I went to sleep last night.
Another one in the middle of the night when I was awake and bored.
Arrrgggh.If I let myself pick it up again I'll be finished it today!Sigh.
Too quickly.
Too quickly.
and now there'll be this extended wait till May, was it?
Arrrggghh!!!
Only 5, or was it 6 stories.
Fairy Dust is a short story in the Sookie Stackhouse series by popular American author, Charlaine Harris.
Claudine, the only fairy that Sookie has ever met, comes into the bar with a request for help.
And while fairies are notoriously bad tippers, Sookie will get paid for using her telepathic powers, so she agrees.
They go to Claude’s house (Claudine’s brother, identical, who knew?) where Sookie, in her unique way, questions three of Claude’s work colleagues at the exotic dance club, Hooligans.
The culprit is uncovered, revenge is extracted, and the reader learns a bit about the fairies in the Sookieverse.
A small but enjoyable dose of Sookie.
I am not a particular fan of short stories, so read this just for the sake of completeness after finishing the Sookie novels. In the collection of five stories, I found "One Word Answer" the most interesting especially with the mention of Marie Laveau, an actual person in the history of New Orleans who also appears in Barbara Hambly's Benjamin January series. Featuring Amelia and a brief appearance by Bob, "Lucky" was an enjoyable and cute read.
I really liked reading all these novellas; seeing Bubba, Mr Cataldies, and more Amelia. Gift Wrap was probably my favorite one just for the fact that it seemed to have the most action, although Dracula was good too. I don't get it though Sookie finds a stranger on her land and decides to screw him - she doesn't even know him???? that's a little whorish don't you think????
Yes, some of the stories suffer from too abrupt resolutions ("Dracula Night" and "One World Answer") or lack of any kind of conflict ("Gift Wrap"), but I didn't care, I enjoyed the characters, new and old, the breeziness of the narration, and Sookie herself, whom I now find to be amusingly overconfident in her own intelligence.
Also, it turns out she is quite tartier that I originally thought, based on the events of "Gift Wrap." All in all, this book is a nice entertainment, especially for Sookie enthusiasts and series completists.
It's a murder mystery with Claudine & Claude in it.“Dracula Night” happens before "Dead as a Doornail" & was probably my least favorite story of the bunch.
It takes place mostly in Fangtasia with Eric & Pam. I just can't see Eric quite that far out there.“One Word Answer” takes place after "Dead as a Doornail" & fills in more about Hadley, although the story takes place in Sookie's yard.
I enjoyed it.“Lucky” happens after "All Together Dead" & was another mystery that was fun, but I like Amelia.“Gift Wrap” happens before "Dead and Gone" & might be my favorite.
Two-page illustrations in front of each story and really big font to make you feel like you actually read a book instead of a glorified Sookie Stackhouse brochure.
"Fairy Dust" is unimpressive (ooh, Sookie's so clever and uses her extreme cleverness to solve crime!) "Lucky" trots out the uneducated idea of Limited Good and pretends like it's legitimate.
Take that Ace Books suckas!Alternatively, may I suggest you get your fix by reading Many Bloody Returns, which includes the only good story from this collection, and also introduced me to the fun fiction of Jim Butcher & Rachel Caine.
They're totally trashy & when I read the first one I originally thought "this is so poorly written & trashy, who reads these?" Quickly I was sucked in and read every single last page of every single book in the series along with a short stories book.
(I mean, it only take a brief evening to read one!) I'm anxiously awaiting the next book in the series, number 11 I think?
Here's hoping Sook chooses wisely!(The short stories are definitely not as good as the books in the series, but worth reading because they fill in a lot of gaps.)
A fun collection of short stories from the wonderful Sookie Stackhouse universe. Some of these stories should have been included as sections in the other books and expanded upon! Then there are a couple that are simply just fun shorts. “Fairy Dust” - Sookie helps Claudine and Claude figure out what happened to their sister Claudette. “One Word Answer” - Sookie finds out about Hadley! “Dracula Night” - Eric throws a huge Halloween Party at Fangtasia! “Lucky” - Amelia and Sookie investigate a streak of bad luck affecting Bon Temps.“Giftwrap” It's Christmas and Sookie has an unexpected visitor.
A Touch of Dead is an omnibus of five short stories in the Sookie Stackhouse series by popular American author, Charlaine Harris.Fairy Dust: Claudine, the only fairy that Sookie has ever met, comes into the bar with a request for help.
A mini-dose of vampire fun.One Word Answer: Whilst Sookie is doing some evening yard work with Bubba the Vampire, visitors arrive in a fancy black limo.
The passenger brings news of the death of Sookie’s cousin Hadley, and a legacy coming her way.
A Touch of Dead consists of 5 short stories that fall in various places in the Southern Vampire Series, featuring heroine Sookie Stackhouse.
The stories in A Touch of Dead fall in various places throughout the Sookie novels, and are thoughtfully put in chronological order in the collection.
The stories in the order the occur in Sookie’s life are “Fairy Dust” (from Powers of Detection), “Dracula Night” (from Many Bloody Returns), “One Word Answer” (from Bite), “Lucky” (from Unusual Suspects), and “Gift Wrap” (from Wolfsbane and Mistletoe).
“Lucky” is another cute story that doesn’t have much bearing in the series, but is still a very enjoyable read.
There are a total of five stories which are all very good:Fairy DustThis is a miniature mystery as Sookie is asked by her fairy godmother to investigate the death of her sister.
Eric absolutely worships Dracula, but unfortunately his night doesn't turn out quite the way he had hoped.One Word AnswerThis story concerns the death of Sookie's cousin Hadley, an event that will prove influential in the following books.
Unfortunately as I read this after reading the books I was already a little familiar with what happened in this story, but even so it was a pleasant read.LuckyAnother mystery, this time much more light hearted.
Terrible. Also, the final story features the most disturbing and generally wrong present ever given by a great-grandfather to his great-grand-daughter. Plus, in its entirety so dull that even people who actually think Harris can write will be bored.
Brevemente...
My favorite line in the story is at the end when Claudine says "Fair is only part of Fairy as letters of the alphabet." It sounds so menacing, and since I picture Claudine as Liv Tyler in my head, I can just see her saying it.Dracula Night Sookie is invited to Fangtasia for a birthday party in honor of Dracula.
Bill rushes to the aid of "his" Sookie, and just like the last story, Sookie shows us just how smart she really is.LuckyThis is my least favorite.
This was a fun story that could have fit anywhere in the series.
In this case, they have approached Sookie so she can use her psychic abilities to help identify which employee of a local strip club killed the third sibling in their triplet set."One Word Answer" connects the citizens of Bon Temps with New Orleans when Sookie learns what happened to her long lost cousin who disappeared a short time earlier.
It turns out that she ended up becoming a vampire before being dusted, but she had connections to the high vampire court.In "Lucky," Sookie and Amelia, a new character in the series and a friend with a quirky talent in witchcraft, find themselves on a case.
This book was passed to me by my older sister, who is not a reader.
That's sweet.I hadn't read any of Harris' books but figured there must be some fantastic writing for her to have turned someone like my sister into a reader, so I looked forward to this.It's appalling.
The sentences are so short and the vocabulary so narrow that I felt like I was reading something just slightly more advanced than a school primer.
The characters are one-dimensional, like stick figures, with descriptions that are little more than, "This vampire is tall, blonde and hot." By the second story I was sure that it was written by a child.
Fills in all the holes between books that really annoyed me. Also a minimum of descriptions of the freaking waitress uniform, which was nice!.
They've got three human suspects - a stripper, a bouncer, and the owner of the club.This is a short but fun story where Sookie uses her telepathic ability to figure out who killed the fairy.
I enjoyed it heaps, and liked finding out a little more about Claudine, Claude and fairies in general.DRACULA NIGHT: When Eric invites Sookie to Fangtasia for an annual vampire event that celebrates Dracula's birthday, she agrees to go.
Pam was great in this little story, her side comments made me laugh.ONE WORD ANSWER: While Sookie is doing some late-night gardening with Bubba, a limo arrives at her house.
Oh, and Sookie is completely kick ass.Round 3: One Word Answer is the one story in this collection that adds something to the rest of the Sookie novels.
Here's where we first meet Mr. Cataliades (one of my FAVORITE side characters ever, by the way) and find out what really happened to Sookie's cousin Hadley, which lays the groundwork for her going to New Orleans and getting messed up in even more shady vampire business.
It's an interesting story and is the perfect length for what it entails; the lesson that using magic has consequences is pertinent.Round 5: Gift Wrap is the story of a particularly lonely Christmas Eve for Sookie and her great-grandfather's attempt to liven things up.
However, before I even begin my ramblings about the present book, let me make it clear that either the publishers should delete the word ‘complete’ from the cover, or else they should update the volume ASAP, since a lot of stories dealing with our spunky heroine have come out in the years since October 2009 (when this hardcover had come out).After a brief introduction (aimed more at the regular readers of the series, rather than people like me who stay away from the novels, and only cherish the short bursts of pleasure provided by short stories), we have the stories which are:1.
and what a christmas present it was
