https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/647.No_Logo

A while ago I read Marx’s Capital and one of the things I thought while reading the horror stories of Victorian labour practices was just how lucky we are today that trade unions have made sure capitalism couldn’t get away with such disgusting practices – because I’ve always known that capitalism can only maintain a human face when it is forced to.
That means that they can pretend they are not responsible for the gross violations of basic human rights done to produce the products they name and sell.
It is about 15 years since this book was written and if anything things today are infinitely worse.
No Logo: No Space, No Choice, No Jobs by Naomi Klein is an examination of the change from products to branding and the results that has had on the population.
When you bought a Schwinn bike you knew you were buying a quality product.
Thirty years later a church group complained that cigarette companies were exploiting black poverty in the inner city.
Again, Klein produces a scholarly study on brands, mergers, ads, sweat shops, advertising in schools, and all the tricks corporations use to become kings of the consumer markets.
Ok ok ok, I know the hype surrounding this book.
Well, what sold me on this book was an image taken from a busy street with all of the logo's removed using Photoshop.
And the book is long, interesting and at times redundant.
Naomi Klein is hot, first of all, but mainly she's right.
We could argue that human desire and the weakness of popular opinion is the culprit, but advertising exploited those weaknesses, and replaced them with pollution, child labor, illegal labor and DMZ bullshit, globalization, and all of the things we were warned about happening by Orwell, PKD, Huxley, and movies like Alphaville, 1984 and Brazil.It's not exactly like any of those things, but it could be...right?
Klein is a muckraker that is very biased.
This activism is creating better awareness of what is happening behind the corporate facade, and is forcing change on the companies.
There is also a section on some spectacular own goals as the corporates have tried and failed to squash dissenting messages about their brand - the McLibel case being the most well known (In the UK at least)The book reminds me of one that had a profound effect on me many years ago, The Hidden Persuaders by Vance Packard, which explained how marketing and advertising influences all that we do.
وكانت تحلم بالعمل في إحدى الشركات الدولية الكبرى.ولكنها تغيرت فيما بعد، وهذا التغير الذي نضج أثناء عملها في مجلة "تايم" الأميركية الشهيرة جعلها ترى أضرار العولمة نمط الحياة الاستهلاكية على حياة البشر وأخلاقهم ومعاملاتهم اليومية، وكذلك مستويات الفقر والمعيشة في بلدان العالم الثالث.نشرت ناعومي كلاين هذا الكتاب في العام 2000، ينقسم الكتاب إلى 4 أقسام وهي: بلا مكان، ويتحدث عن غزو الاعلانات التجارية للفضاء العام في أي مجتمع.
ويتحدث القسم الأخير من الكتاب وهو : بلا ماركة، عن الحراك العالمي ضد سيطرة الشركات الضخمة المتعددة الجنسيات والثقافة الاستهلاكية على حياتنا.يتميز الكتاب بأسلوب الكاتبة السهل الممتنع (باللغة الإنجليزية) ويتميز كذلك بالأمثلة الواقعية التي صاحبت جميع أقسام الكتاب.
Despite what Naomi Klein is trying to imply, the vast majority of the factory workers is happy to have these jobs and nobody is forced to take them.
That being said, there is still a lot of room for improvement.For some reason she further confuses every kind of vandalism with an organized, big time anti-globalisation campaign.I still gave the book 2 stars, because the chapter about lowered working standards and marketing strategies in the western world was interesting enough.This is no good book by any means though and does not earn half the acclaim it is given.
Rise of the Corporatocracy3 May 2012 As I mentioned under The Shock Doctrine, this book is about the internal problems with the American Empire as opposed to the external concerns to the rest of the world. In a sense it is the idea that our culture is being destroyed by a culture of consumerism and that idea of profits before people is the main motivator of the modern corporatocracy. We do need to put this book in context though, being written at the end of the 90s, just after the anti-globalisa
Rise of the Corporatocracy3 May 2012	As I mentioned under The Shock Doctrine, this book is about the internal problems with the American Empire as opposed to the external concerns to the rest of the world.
However, low wages are still a problem, but what makes things worse is cost cutting as a means to increase profits.
To be honest I am going to dispute that namely because the corporatocracy needs the middle class, and even a cash flushed working class, to survive.
As mentioned, the corporatocracy need the people to survive, to create and grow their profits, but they have effectively reached critical mass.
Milo Yiannopoulos, the smugly execrable male Ann Coulter/low-rent Oscar Wilde with a bronzer problem who is currently afflicting our society with his "provocative" yet wholly warmed-over ideas in the Trump era, is putting out his own book, entitled "Dangerous." I'm all for free speech, and come from the Millsian/Skokie line of ACLU types who think that one of the only things America is truly great at, and has benefited from, is its staunch defense of freedom of speech in the public arena.
Santa pace!Sembra un'altra epoca quella in cui ho letto questo libro!Altra pubblicità, altra vita. Ante G8 di Genova, ante black block, ante tutto e anti tutto.Illuminante per certi versi, noioso per certi altri.Da consultazione più che da lettura.Ricordo ancora di essere rimasta affascinata dal capitolo sulla culture jamming e di aver cercato di saperne molto di più di quanto descritto nel libro.
definitely some good information, but something about the books style turns me off. i feel a little preached to, or manipulated. I guess my recent-college-student self wants more of an attempt to appear objective. objectivity may be an illusion, but it is one of my personal favorites.
I skimmed most of this. Not that anything was wrong with the book, it just felt like it was stating the obvious to me. Maybe this would have seemed like newer information at the time of publishing. Right now, in 2016, with my anti-capitalist mind, this didn't tell me anything I wanted to know.
Reading this book more than ten years after it came out is hard.
Many of the sinister examples Klein listed didn't pan out, and some of the companies are hardly massive brand juggernauts these days, just a little over ten years later.
However, in reading many economists' work on brand and advertising, Klein has come up more than once, and indeed, her concept of Brand disconnects the concept of Brand from its original economic form.
Finally, having worked in advertising for 15 years, I can say that Klein definitely intentionally or not distorts the motivations of many of the creatives she lists.
I was jealous.At an ORCUP Conference in 1993 (Ontario Region Canadian University Press), I arranged for a group of student journalists to head to U of Toronto to join in.
The Varsity Blue, UofT's paper, edited by Naomi, were hosting.One night, while hanging out in some pub on Spadina, with members of the still white-hot Kids in the Hall quaffing pints at the bar, I realized that I didn't have a place to stay.My writing had gotten some attention through the Canadian University Press wire -- a precursor to the internet (my age!), and Naomi seemed to be a fan.
I was too drunk to fuck, too drunk to engage in all-night political discussion with Naomi Klein.No regrets, right?
This would most likely mean that players who began to dominate markets need to be split in one way or the other to enable other and especially up-and-coming individuals and companies to compete against them in much more fairer conditions.
Przenikliwością analiz, wzruszającą i piękną naiwnością recept i wieloma przykładami pokazującymi, że tak bardzo nie wiemy, co naprawdę dzieje się pod cienką warstwą wielkich politycznych i ekonomicznych snów o potędze.
Po przeczytaniu tej książki jeszcze bardziej zazdroszczę zachodowi kultury protestu.
Tego, że potrafią zgromadzić się wokół jakiejś idei i zacząć o nią walczyć.
i gdy to się dzieje - jak dobrze pójdzie to wyjdzie na ulicę parę tysięcy ludzi raz na pół roku.
Wiele o tym właśnie - kulturze protestu - można przeczytać w tej książce.
A poza tym jest świetna z wielu innych względów.
This book is about fifteen years old so the examples are a little dated but they could be replaced by a slew of new ones that make the same points about branding, offshoring, and capitalist economics and its effect on workers and civil society.
Hipster cool, faux diversity are the alluring mask behind the corporate monster.
The alluring mask dressed in important diversity and tolerance and gender equality have become the what angry populists have been misdirected by rightwing media to associate with the forces grinding ordinary people down.
This is a problem, especially since the argument is known pretty widely in a general way and therefore the need for some kind of counter-program is all the more pressing.I am going to try Disaster Capitalism one of these days and maybe it will have more of a bolder, tougher, more necessary impact.\\ten years after this book's breakthrough success, we've seen many of its concerns rear their ugly head and make so huge and unmistakable and infinitely complex a mark that, discouragingly, it seems we're (people of the left, that is, those may take a lot away from this book and the already converted it preaches to) still standing at square one- acknowledgment- and gazing up at this monolith, and taking the temperature....
The first three are cool, they talk about, respectively, how corporations in the 90s took over all our space with their logos, how we have no choice but to buy their products since they buy all the other smaller companies and it's crazy hard to find indie stores anymore, and how there aren't any good jobs since corporations like Nike outsource everything to Burma.
The final section, No Logo, however, which takes up about 40% of the book's entire length, is about how some people, "culture jammers" or "adbusters" or whatever, are starting to fight back, and spray-paint ads to say funny stuff like "Think Stupid" instead of "Think Different," or, you know, protesting or whatever.
Having read it about a year after it was first released, I felt as though my eyes had been suddenly opened to a rather horrible reality about how globalized (a.k.a. transnational) capitalism was concentrating wealth in the hands of a powerful few and exploiting a poor majority for their labour.
To read it now would surely reveal dated views of the economic and cultural world in which we find ourselves.
In spite of these areas of concern, I think that Klein might have been one of the earliest authors to tackle some of these issues.
I finally finished this dense and comprehensive look at how our lives have been reduced to corporate sponsorship (this message brought to you by Nike!
jobs moving overseas to contract laborers) to the way those laborers are mistreated and exploited (sweatshops) to the fact that everyone is doing it, not just "name brands", to the eventual backlash and counter movement this book covers a lot of ground in 458 pages.
Although some of this information is a little dated (the bulk of it was written in 1998) the movement against corporate hegemony still persists.
As other options wither, nothing is left but the corporate vision of 'choice', presenting culture as something mindlessly consumed, never answered or created by its 'market'.Still, this is all about Westerners' lifestyles and comfort; pretty trivial compared to the painstaking work Noam Chomsky, for example, has done in documenting multinationals' manipulation of US foreign policy under cover of propaganda at home: installing puppet dictators, engineering brutal crushing of popular uprisings and attempts to nationalise or retain local control of resources and systematically denying the rights of indigenous populations to land, liberty, free association etc etc etc etc etc.
However, with the shift to the general theory of relativity the story is reversed; the curvature of space is no longer the effect of matter's gravity, it is rather matter itself which is the side-effect of the curvature of space, the curvature of space is itself the primordial fact.Whether or not this is an accurate summary of Einstein's contribution to twentieth century physics, it is a useful schema for understanding the transformation Naomi Klein charts in No Logo.
What Klein has done is force our gaze into this hidden world - of sweatshops, child labour and corporate censorship - to remove any doubt about the full extent of the price being paid for our brand-filled lifestyles.
Indeed it is Klein's unbounded optimism - in a continually thriving underground movement, independent media, spontaneous street parties and protests - that forms a key part of the book's appeal.
Don't let the book's age put you off - the themes are still relevant, no matter how many 'corporate responsibility' statements have since cropped up on the big brand websites.
In free trade zones around the world individuals work in sweatshops for slave wages to produce overpriced branded products for the developed world.
As more companies adopt this model of production, there is a race to the bottom as good manufacturing jobs in the US are exported.No Logo:Student groups, universities, unions, shareholders and municipal governments are fighting back by holding companies responsible for the work practices of their suppliers.
They are leveraging the power of the company brand as a means of shaming these institutions into behaving responsibly.
If anything, companies have only grown stronger and have increased their hold over federal lawmakers and their visibility in the public sphere.

In this book, Klein takes on marketing, branding, and sweatshops.
Her main theme is the gradual corporatization of the world, but I find it hard to compare the absolute horrors of sweatshops (which her investigative journalism exposed beautifully) to the public eyesores of billboard advertising or the general annoyance of mass marketing and branding.
Which is not to say it's not related, but the problems of the sweatshops, imo, are much more relevant and interesting to our lives and worlds, then the minor annoyances of a logo on a stadium.Again, don't get me wrong.
I picked this up because it was on the reading list in the back of Scarlett Thomas's PopCo, and I can see why - the sort of realisations that Alice in PopCo has about branding are all in here, as are the seeds of the movements against branding.This is a depressing book, of course.
I'm certain that so many of the products I own are produced in sweatshops, and that I'm influenced by branding in all sorts of ways.
Even if I don't go out and start altering advertising, I think I'll still think about it in a different way in the future, and try and source products that aren't produced by global brands utilising sweatshop labour.
I thought I knew enough insidious information on logos, branding and multinational corporations, but this book definitely pushed back the curtain even wider on this pervasive element in society.It's true that what we purchase is no longer about substance, but about the idea that is being sold. It's made me rethink every single purchase that I make. Do I really need it? Or is it just that I want it? But why do I want it? Hopefully this book will leave you posing the same questions in your daily purchaes long after you've finished the book.
In the early 90s, major companies (Nike being the paradigm, but for from the only example) shifted their focus from manufacturing to brands - from selling objects to selling "lifestyles." It might seem like a ridiculous concept, but even well-educated, critical people have fallen for it.
Chances are, then, you've probably shopped at The Body Shoppe because of its family-eco atmosphere, or in some other way unknowingly bought into some company's lifestyle image.The first section of the book deals with the fallout from this switch in focus by the major multinationals, divided into three chapters.
