https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/68527.The_Last_Kingdom
$1.99 on Kindle today 6-10-17BLOG: Melissa Martin's Reading ListEVERYONE SHOULD COME RIGHT ALONG AND READ THIS BOOK/SERIES!ME THINKS THERE'S GOING TO BE SPOILERS!♣♣♣♣♣I am Uhtred, son of Uhtred, and this is the tale of a blood feud.
I heard about if from some friends on GR awhile back and have the series listed in my notebook to read, but it was put by the wayside like so many other books.
Then some peeps and Uhtred's father all got together to duke it out with the Danes at a place called Eoferwic and things didn't go so good for the Saxons.
The phone will remain unplugged except for the ordering of something greasy.On these Fridays you have two options: dissolve into a self-pitying, gelatinous blob or turn to a lot of book.
This weekend may I suggest the sword’s song, and the whale’s way, and the red dawn?What you need is a series --- something that weighs in at 2,000 plus pages so there’s no danger of running out.
I dream, and know that one day I will take back the land from those who stole it from me."I felt like I needed to write a proper review for this book, if for no other reason than to tell every single soul that could possibly read the words I'm writing that this is the absodamnlutely best series ever written within the genre of historical fiction.
This is where the author triumphs most: he tells the reader where his protagonist is going to end up, at the end of his life, and urges them discover how he got there.
Consequently, as second in line, his farther wanted him to be a priest, which is a life Uhtred would never choose for himself.
His farther is killed in the battle and Uhtred captured by a Danish warrior called Ragnar.
These questions do not occur to Uhtred till he is a man grown and spent his youth as a Danish warrior.
An outstanding novel set in England during medieval times in the year 866 AD.
The author introduces real historical figures; Guthrum the Unlucky, Ubba the Horrible, and Ivar the Boneless, all fearless Dane warriors’ intent on taking over the English kingdoms.
A frightening sight for many townspeople who flee their homes trying to avoid the slaughter they knew would come.
The story centers on an English lad, Uhtred of Bebbanburg, a fervent believer in the spinners of fate.
As he follows the destiny he feels he cannot avoid, Uhtred is eventually caught between his loyalty to his country and unexpected love for the Danes.
I had no idea what I was getting into when I read this book.
I'd never read Bernard Cornwell.
And I became a permanent Bernard Cornwell fan.
I think Uhtred is one of my favorite characters of all time.
Yes he’s mean, arrogant, and a bit of an antihero, but he’s a full blooded character, and I felt like I really got to know him.
This book goes through Uhtred’s childhood as a Saxon raised by the Danes, and after reading his childhood, I can understand his blood thirsty nature and his conflicted loyalties.
This is a first person narration of a child who grows up as a Briton/Saxon but is captured by Vikings, who are more accurately called Danes. He comes to love his Danish father and begins to appreciate their customs and battle lore, as well as becoming battle trained himself.   At the same time, though, his roots are with Briton, and, in the end, he joins with the future Alfred the Great, showing him how to defeat the enemy.STRENGTHS:(1) Vivid details of shield walls. Think gritty and bloody.;(2)
At the same time, though, his roots are with Briton, and, in the end, he joins with the future Alfred the Great, showing him how to defeat the enemy.STRENGTHS:(1) Vivid details of shield walls.
“Pride makes a man, it drives him, it is the shield wall around his reputation...
“Do you know who wins battles, boy?”“We do, Father.”“The side that is least drunk,” he said, and then, after a pause, “but it helps to be drunk.”“Why?”“Because a shield wall is an awful place.” You can hear a shield wall being made.
Beware the man who loves battle.
I've been staring at this book on my shelf for several years and finally just picked it up after liking the show on Netflix.
The story was told from the POV of his older self looking back on his life, but somehow managed to sound like both an older man and young boy at the same time.
I loved how the book didn't romanticize the time period, yet didn't dwell on any brutality for shock value either.
It felt more like an honest account of a character's life then.
Actual Rating: 4.5 StarsTHIS WAS. THE MOST FUN. VERY BLOODY. LOTS OF BATTLE. WOULD RECOMMEND.
Pronunciation: luhvA feeling of strong attachment induced by that which delights or commands admiration; preëminent kindness or devotion to another; affection; tenderness; as, the love of brothers and sisters.Of all the dearest bonds we proveThou countest sons' and mothers' loveMost sacred, most Thine own.Affection; kind feeling; friendship; strong liking or desire; fondness; good will; - opposed to hate; often with of and an object.Love, and health to all.
In the end I feel in love with Uhtred and his fight to survive and his cleverness and his will to get what he knew he deserved.
The boy, who comes to be called Uhtred, prefers the ways of the Danes, especially their freedom and their gods, over the Saxons and their pious Christian priests.
The book lingers about while Uhtred is 11 or 12, then speeds up through his teens until he is a young man making important choices that would change battles, battles that could mean the boom or bust of England.
Cornwell is also inventing the myth of his main character in these pages and occasionally he relies on the old "tell" instead of "show" technique in order to build up this boy into the heroic man he's to become.
(SPOILER-ISH STUFF A'COMING!) Cornwell has written such a series before.
This book was good but I had some problems with it, nothing major or about the story but rather the way it's told. Review to come. Maybe.
Will have to read the next novels really soon.---------I've been a huge history fan ever since I was young.
I've never really read or watched other histories like UK, American, Russian, Asian, etc.
It was so good that it even felt like a  short read , despite the length of the novel.
This would be the book to read if you want to be fully engrossed, and feel like you're actually the main character.
I'm now planning to read more Britain related history, and historical fiction novels.
„Wyrd bið ful ãræd.“ – „Fate is inexorable.“ I had a super long review written for this series but I deleted the document accidentally so let me share with you at least some major points to explain my reasons for loving this series so much:* Astonishing storytelling skills. Bernard Cornwell brought 9th and 10th century England alive for me.* Unforgettable narrator. Uhtred of Bebbanburg is unapologetic and ruthless yet lovable and admiration worthy character with brilliant military strategic min
I really felt like I was there with Uhtred, fighting every new enemy or being part of countless shield wars.All in all, The Warrior Chronicles/Saxon Stories series (all 10 available books) is spectacular story with spectacular writing.
It is one of the best historical fiction stories I have ever read and it is the perfect example of how to write engaging historical fiction series that never get boring or predictable!Moreover, I loved author’s note at the end of every book where author explained which parts were based on historical facts and which parts of his novel he made up.
Asolutely loved it. I went to the library and randomly picked a book. It was The Pale Horseman, and I realized it was second part of Ulthred's life, so I went back and got this first part out. I love England and so I loved those 3 books. (now waiting for another to come out. There must be 4 book.) It's the same feeling like waiting for Harry Potter books to come out.
“Destiny is all. And now, looking back, I see the pattern of my life’s journey. It began in Bebbanburg and took me south, ever southward, until I reached the farthest coast of England and could go no farther and still hear my own language. That was my childhood’s journey. As a man I have gone the other way, ever northward, carrying sword and spear and ax to clear the path back to where I began. Destiny. Rating, 5 stars. “We came shrieking from the half-light. We were a nightmare in the dawn: me
Ten years old Uhtred, son of the Lord of Bebbanburg in Northumbria, in the wake his brothers death (by the hands of the invading Danes) becomes the unexpected heir to the estate, and follows his father to battle.
One of the Viking (Danes) warriors, Ragnar, intrigued by Uhtred's display of courage, decides to spare him and brings him into his household, raising him alongside his youngest son.
Uhtred will soon learn to love the Danes way of life, and the freedom that goes with it ...
and the once son of a Saxon lord, will soon follow the Danes army in the conquering of East Anglia, Mercia, and the attacks on Wessex....
what an unexpected joy this book has been, man i did not think it could be this good, Uthred is undeniably a very well written and a very very well liked character , and what a gripping story , i watched the TV show and it was excellent but it left out a lot and they changed many things so I'm very glad i read this book ....
The main impetus that nudged me to finally pick up this book among my long list of to-be-read was in fact History Channel's Vikings, as I didn't even know that this book itself has inspired a television series given I don't spend much time in front of one.
This book almost read like a sequel to the Vikings series as it relates to the rise of King Alfred The Great.
Apparently I've never reviewed this- which is stupid, because I tell everyone I can to read it. But- It's $1.99 on the U.S. Kindle store today!Disregard the 4 star rating, the series as a whole gets 5 stars.
But fate is peculiar and when Uhtred can't deny his English roots anymore he goes to battle under King Alfred's banner against the invading Danes.It is funny, intense, bloody, passionate, gritty, witty, dark, sarcastic and, did I already mention, funny.
I just couldn't not fall in love with Uhtred, the boy who went foolishly charging against Danes in battle at 10, the English boy kidnapped and then raised by Danes, Danes he came to love, the boy, who wasn't a boy anymore, whose life was destroyed and for whom the spinners (fates) chose a different path, and the young man who just as foolishly charged the Danes at 20 again.
A thrilling story with a good dash of irony and humour, as well as wonderful descriptions and interesting characters!
Great historical fiction read! Based on true historical events, the story revolves around a young lordling who is kidnapped in one of the many Viking invasions of old England.It was a bit slow in a few places, but overall a very good read.
The characters are not really developed or very exciting and most people seem to be quite one dimensional.
As a final touch Cornwell shows how rushed he is by completely forgetting details in later books that were established in earlier volumes.I was a bit surprised at the quality of this series as Cornwell's Sharp series is much richer in both characters and prose (though nowhere near Patrick O'Brian as Cornwell's publicist claims) and his Starbuck series falls in between the two.If you like the genre by all means give this one a shot but don't imagine that it is going to be as good as The Long Ships.
O que muda totalmente o destino de Uhtred é o fato dele ser capturado nesse ataque e começar a ser criado como um próprio dinamarquês pelo earl Ragnar, um chefe muito carismático e também excelente guerreiro, que desde pequeno lhe ensina a arte da batalha.O livro,na sua maior parte, nos mostra a história do ponto de vista de Uhtred em meio aos invasores dinamarqueses, pois é com eles que Uhtred cresce e percebe a sua veneração pela guerra desde o momento em que põem os pés no mundo.
I've started this series once before, but it's been awhile since I've read them.
My biggest complaint is I felt like a lot of the history gets kind of told to us rather than shown.
However, I wish there had been multiple POVs or different ways to incorporate the history more fully into the book.
Sometimes it almost felt nonfiction rather than historical fiction.
;)Short review as this book has been out there for some time.
I do recommend it, however, for anyone interested in this time period or historical fiction.
Cornwell is a great historical fiction writer and I'm hoping this series just gets even better.
A great read for those who enjoy burrowing beyond the pure historical.”I agree with my GR friend, Marita:“A thrilling story with a good dash of irony and humour, as well as wonderful descriptions and interesting characters!”Partially because of my friends reviews and partially because I wanted to see after 8 years and 10 novels whether my view of this first novel in The Saxon Tales had changed in any respect, I began the process again.
Five (*****) stars seem altogether appropriate now that I understand all that Cornwell had in mind when he started his Saxon Stories.If you would like to taste a bit of that special gift, I offer the following two examples:“There were two sorts of iron, he told me, the soft and the hard.
And, he loved to fight!At about the time when King Alfred of Wessex decides to take back some of the lands that were stolen by the savage Danes, Uhtred is betrayed, and he joins back with the Saxons again.
King Alfred is overly trusting of Danish promises, and ignores Uhtred, who realizes that the Danes are just biding their time before attacking again.
Of course, the characters in "The Last Kingdom" are all superstitious, and they really do believe in the supernatural; that is to say, they cannot tell the difference between magic, or fortune telling, and reality.I didn't read this book; I listened to the audiobook, as read by Jonathan Keeble.
Executive Summary: Despite being Historical Fiction, it's borderline fantasy at times, and therefore right in my wheelhouse apparently. I'll definitely be continuing this series. Full Review I've had a few friends raving about this series for years, but I never got around to it before now. It's one of those rare occasions for me where I watched the TV show before reading the book. Apparently a lot of fans of the books don't like the show, but I enjoyed it. It motivated me to finally pick up the
I'll definitely be continuing this series.
Apparently a lot of fans of the books don't like the show, but I enjoyed it.
I likely would have enjoyed it a bit more had I read the book first.
I didn't realize until about halfway into the season that it was based on books I already owned/had on my to read shelf.
I've always enjoyed history, and I must really enjoy this time period, because I've read a boatload of fantasy based on it.
I definitely plan to continue on with the series soon (which is good since I own most of it already).
He bounces around quite a bit through his youth and teen years, back and forth between the Danes and English, accepted by both, fighting for both and against both, before finally settling with the English, marrying at the command of his king, and assisting in bringing down the invading Danish forces and protecting Alfred's quickly shrinking lands.The story is, in a word, outstanding.
I loved watching Uhtred grow, change his views, become self-reflective on how he is a child being manipulated, including realizing at one point that he "follows the last person who spoke with him", upon becoming conscious of the fact that he tends to agree and follow the Danes when they speak with him, and the English when they speak to him.
Cornwell bends recorded historical recorded fact, which is something by which I am never fully convinced, to suit his good story.Uhthred is the leading character.
Uhtred is captured and adopted by the very Viking leader who killed his brother.
This becomes even more difficult after he is summoned by King Alfred the Great.I cannot tell you much more with out spoiling it for you.Some of the characters, including Uhtred, develop very strongly, whilst others remain shallow and weak.
I fear for the development of King Alfred's character in particular.
He has his own weaknesses and flaws, but these should be part of a rich character development.
