https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/910548.A_Child_s_Good_Night_Book
A book talking about how animals sleep. ex. fish sleep with their eyes open.There is a prayer at the end of the book.Decent art and a simple story.
Beautiful combination of text and illustrations.
From my side, I like this book very much.The book does not have a lot of colorful pictures or very fancy words.
It describes seventeen different things when they are in sleeping status.
The book is an old picture book.
Pictures in this book are simple and easy.
Crayons and color pens are used for the pictures.
The pictures are not vivid like those presented in contemporary storybooks.
But, words in this storybook are very simple and vivid.
What is more, suitable colors are used in this picture book.
Basically, the background color of the whole book is green.
*Every single animal in the frigging world* is going to sleep.
Lions, who apparently live in a forest, and don't eat the monkeys who sleep next to them.
At the very end, the children say their prayers and go to sleep.
And there's a little tiny prayer at the end of the book.Bor-ing.
It looks like the artist was trying to draw these animals, but hadn't actually seen some of them before.
The lion looks more like a weird, misshapen dog.
It even has a bone, like a dog.
These animals don't look realistic at all.For more children's book reviews, see my website at http://www.drttmk.com.
Good night everyone!Sleepy little book about everyone who is ready for some rest at the end of the day.
While the text is something I enjoyed - it's nice to get away from forced rhyme schemes all the time - the illustrations were, to me, distracting and not what I would have enjoyed for the book.
While I have nothing against colored pencils, this still comes off as a little too 'bright' for the winding down and sleeping.
But overall, because I don't care much for the illustration style, I'll give this one 3.5 stars.
The repetitive text and some of the illustrations really remind me of Kevin Henkes’s Little White Rabbit, which I frequently share in story time.
This would make a good story time book as well, with its soft colors and short sentences.
The only thing that might keep from reading it would be that the story ends with a prayer and depicts a pair of angels watching over the child while he sleeps.
That wouldn’t be appropriate in a public library setting, even if I do love the thought of asking God to guard “small things that have no words.” This is also a nice read-alike for another Margaret Wise Brown picture book, The Fathers Are Coming Home.
This book won a 1944 Caldecott Honor award, and I like it better than "Goodnight Moon" (which I've always thought was over-rated).
This book is also a bedtime story, and as you read along, all sorts of animals, birds, fish and finally children get sleepy and go to bed.
I enjoyed the prayer at the end: "Dear Father, hear and bless thy beasts and singing birds, and guard with tenderness small things that have no words." Compared to "Goodnight Moon," this book has better illustrations, done with hand-drawn lithographic plates by Parisian artist Jean Charlot, who also illustrated another Wise Brown book entitled "Two Little Trains." Recommended for ages 1-6, 3 stars.
Favorite Illustration: The first page spread showing the house and all of the animals outside in the tree, sky, field, and pond.It's night time, and all of the small animals and children are curling up and going to sleep. This is a sweet little story book showing many different animals at the end of the day. I also love the small prayer at the end. I couldn't get any of the other Honor books from 1944 from my library, but when compared to the Caldecott winner, Many Moons, I would have chosen this one.
Nice book to the end day, even for us older readers.
The colored-pencil drawings, mostly of animals, are stylized but a little heavy, with lots of eyes shut (except for the owl, cat and fish).
The large typeface matches the illustrations well.
My son regularly reads a more recent edition to our grandson and was surprised to find additional pages in the 1943 edition (bees and squirrels.
The book closes with two children saying their prayers, followed by a prayer accompanying large, strong-and-commanding-looking angels, surprisingly atypical for this kind of book, as they bless the children, fish, sheep and more.
(Read again in February 2013)
• 1944 Caldecott Honor Book •I’m not really a fan of the colored pencil look, and some of these drawings - especially of the people - are kind of creepy. I like the concept of this: here’s some fish, the fish are going to sleep; here’s some kangaroos, the kangaroos are going to sleep; etc. I’m just not a fan of the way the art was executed. The book ends with a prayer for animals and “small things that have no words” which I liked though. Materials used: unlistedTypeface used: unlisted
A delightful discovery. Just as good (or better) than the more well known Goodnight Moon. A gentle bedtime book that ends with a nice prayer. The picture of the angels holding the animals and sleeping children at the end was a little off to me, but otherwise, a charming book for the very young.
Brown brings the same rhythmic pace to A Child's Good Night Book as to Goodnight Moon. We much prefer this book to Runaway Bunny or My World, though for some reason people tend to know of those and not this one. As she describes sleepy birds, sheep, sailboats, and wild monkeys, all of our eyes begin to droop. We also like the prayer on the last page, much better than the old "if I die before I wake" standard from my childhood.
The story line wasn't amazing or anything, but it was simple and I imagine, enjoyable to a child. The pictures were unique and I liked the subtle color schemes, bright, but not too bright to detract from your sleepiness. This is a sweet little book for children.*Taken from my book reviews blog: http://reviewsatmse.blogspot.com/2008...
Well it is not Good Night Moon, but this is another nice bedtime story by Margaret Wise Brown. It has a nice soothing tone and definitely evokes getting ready for bed. I read both a reproduction of the first edition and an enlarged edition. I much preferred the smaller first edition as the illustrations and text seem to go together better and I prefer it as it was originally intended.
Loved reading this to my toddler - very few words, each page a closeup illustration - showing how everything was settling down for the night to go to sleep. Dark outside the house, the birds go to sleep in the nest, etc. Love the page where the angel encloses all the sleepy animals in it's wings while they sleep. Very soothing calm book to read before bedtime. Highly recommend!
Caldecott Honor 1944 - In doing this Caldecott Challenge it has been interesting to see how the books have changed over the years but to also see what books were a bit ahead of the times in some ways. This book seems like a child's book whereas some seem more like they weren't really written for children.
A bedtime book in which various animals are shown sleeping in their own unique ways (example: fish sleep with their eyes open). Each page of text closes with the same refrain. Illustrations are in full color and do well supporting the peacefulness of the text. A wordless 2 page spread near the end shows 2 angels holding all of God's creatures as they sleep and the book ends with a short prayer.
The layout and style of this book remind me of current books by Henkes like Little White Rabbit or A Good Day.
A fairly old child's bedtime book which is all about trying to get a child to sleep. The text is surprisingly long winded and un-rhyming. The art is pretty good but not exceptional. For our family the children-say-their-prayers would make this book a non-starter. But otherwise this is an okay book. But I expect more from a Caldecott Honor book.
One of my favorite children's books by one of my favorite authors. I discovered it after my second child was born, and remember reading it to her while rocking and nursing her when she used to wake up in the middle of the night.
This book is a slam dunk for consideration as the perfect book to use in putting small toddlers to bed, at least for some personalities of child. The way that the words are shaped just gives out an intrinsic feeling of languid sleepiness...I would give this book one and a half stars.
everyone goes to sleep. Sleepy pussy cats. Sleepy birds. Sleepy children. Sleepy I can't remember. Quiet sail boats. Quiet engines.
Favorite illustration - p. 3
Cute, simple and very well illustrated. I really like the simplicity of both the words and the pictures. Very soothing, relaxing bedtime book for young children.
Cool illustrations.
A Caldecott Honor book that has loving phrases and sentences to paint a picture of everything settling down, quieting through the night in preparation for the release that sleep brings.
ok
The words have a nice, gentle cadence, but the illustrations didn't really speak to me.
A book about sleeping animals of all kinds with adequate illustrations but very fine rhyming verses.
Unappealing. I was not a fan of the illustrations or the text and my son actually closed the book and pushed it away both times I tried to read it.
