https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/12661.Chesapeake
I posed the same question, and she gave me the answer that had been given to hear, "You should read "Chesapeake."" Michener, I'm told by this friend, is a famed histo-geographical fictionalist, which is to say he writes stories that span centuries in a way in which a geographic location is just as important as the characters who cross it over time.
That being said, I'm not exactly sure the book does a good job of describing why Baltimore is sort of crazy, but I'm glad she recommended it nonetheless.When I have more time, I'd actually like to read another Michener novel, "Caribbean."
This has to be one of the best books I have ever read. It has a strong storyline, it is gripping and yet it has at times a gentleness about it. I have read this book twice, and do not rule out a third time....a rare thing for me. I loved this.
Don't be afraid of Michener! I've heard the rule is that you can put the book down if you're not finished in 6 months ha! I think I am 2 months in. Drink tea and read little by little. Chesapeake follows a bunch of families living on the Choptank River on Maryland's Eastern shore from before pre-colonial times through....well, I'm still reading. About halfway through, I was tickled to read about a GOOSE FAMILY hahaha. HONK!
I'll admit I really had doubts that a story which was limited to the history and area surrounding Chesapeake Bay would hold me for the 700 + pages in which Michener likes to let his narrative flow.But my fears were soon dispelled.
Within each Michener book, you soon learn, there are so many great mini-stories and tales of various peoples and their struggles and this is no exception.
Personally, my favourite parts of the book were the stories about the African-American slaves (can't remember their names as I read this about 7 years ago) who ended up being freed by their master.
There is no better way to make history digestible than by telling the story through fictional characters...dynasties, really.
This was really a beautiful and telling account of American history, from the days of Native Americans to the tragedy of Watergate.
One of the things that struck me was how dramatic of a change occurred between about 1890 to 1930.
I was sort of disappointed in the lack of transition on Michener's part, but then I realized how dramatic the change really was during those years.
There was no transition then either...things changed so quickly.
Really a great story.
James Michener has a remarkable talent for introducing a setting and taking his readers on a journey, that will make one understand the area through it's history and it's people.
Through native (and later colonial) eyes, the reader gets a good feel for the bounty available in this area.
Somehow, it seemed right because it would have been a big part of the history of this area, especially given it's proximity to the nation's capital.I have to yet to read a Michener novel that I didn't enjoy, and Chesapeake definitely rises to the top of those I have read.
I loved this book. It is my favorite by Michener. I read it the first time on a trip to the Eastern Shore of Virginia. If you ever visit this region, take this book along. It will make your trip a magical, spiritual experience. I read it again several years ago, and it brought back all those pleasant memories including tastes, sounds, sights, and smells. I could go for a soft-shell crab sandwich just thinking about it!
Just arrived from USA through BM.The cover of this edition, provided by Wikipedia, is the following:This book covers the history of the North American east, mainly Maryland’s Eastern Shore, where the Choptank River flows into the Chesapeake.
Some strong and remarkable female characters play important roles into the plot.The book is divided in 18 chapters, each one beginning with a voyage that will provide the foundation for the chapter plot and will describe a particular generation of people.Some geographical points, such as Devon Island and the town of Patamoke , are fictional.
What a great overview of life in the Chesapeake and Eastern Shore of Maryland from pre-colonization forward told first through the eyes of the Native Americans and then through the many generations of Steeds, the planters of Devon Island, Paxmores, the intellectual Quakers living on Peace Cliff as well as the Turlocks who intermixed with the natives and were most comfortable living and at times barely surviving in the marshes, the Caters who were direct descendants of the African, Cudjo, and the Caveneys, spunky Irish immigrants who in the scheme of things came late to the table.
What a tome! I finally finished it after 3 solid months of listening/reading. Truly epic tale that taught me so much about my home states of MD and VA. Stories, characters, families, themes that will stay with me. My friend Helen told us it was the book that mattered most as she settled into her new home here after arriving from England.
As with all the big Micheners I have read, I like the earlier chapters better than the later ones. The earlier chapters tend to deal with geology, natural history or fictional characters from earlier times. Later chapters cover political events around the time each novel was written, which date pretty quickly and make for dry reading. Still, Chesapeake was good and worth the time spent reading it.
At one point I continued reading simply because I had put so much time into the book, it would feel like a time wasting failure to not finish.So basically, I would rate the first half of the book higher because the character and plot development was well done and enjoyable.
The second half I would give a lower rating because it felt like Michener had pretty much given up on any meaningful development and just wanted to get to a certain page count.
For the past 10 years, my wife and I have vacationed on the James River -- nearly across the river from Jamestown VA.
And I don't know that I could have read it that quickly if I weren't on vacation for two of the weeks!
Epic though also in that amazing rush through stories of generations that modern writers seem to have abandoned.
It was almost a pleasure to read a book, so clearly written in another time, that was grounded so solidly in plot and characters and most importantly in place.
Sometimes you just want a good solid story that resonates with a special place in your soul.For me, this was it.
Amazingly, he tracks three families across all this time: the Turlocks--a group of muskrat like people who inhabit the swamps; the Steeds, from English ancestry who become very rich and noble like; and the Paxmores--Quakers who build ships and stand, steadfast as the masts of their ships, to their Quaker faith.
I particularly loved the way the author makes connections between men and nature.
I like to believe that, when I am 65 in five years, I will feel that same way, and be carried along by the stream of time and nature in which I make my passage.
From 1583 to 1978 the saga moves, tracking the lives of individuals, their families, the society they live in, and most importantly the place where all of this happens.
Chesapeake is as much about a way of life, as it is about the place and its people.
The book is typical Michener, and uses individual stories across generations to show the way a place and its society has evolved.
Even as each generation's story is read, it is difficult to realise the passage of time, since sometimes the changes are too subtle to be noticed.
I read 'Chesapeake' some thirty years ago - yet the vivid memories and impact of it are still with me today so that I intend to reread it again if time ever permits !
I mention the time factor because it sits in that genre of massive 'blockbusters'(alongside 'War And Peace') - the size of a brick and unputdownable !In this masterpiece, James A.
For anybody wishing to discover the real origins of the USA - this book is compulsory reading - but not always for the squeamish !

In a way, if you've read one Michener, you've read them all.
But not because, after all, just because you know the history of mankind in Spain (or Hawaii or Poland) doesn't mean you know it for ...
the Eastern Shore of Maryland.
I started this novel my first week in DC.
I can't imagine a more pleasurable (if lengthy) way to orient myself to the totally different reality that exists just across the namesake bay from Washington DC.
Highly recommended for Michener fans, librovores of all stripes and anyone who thinks they know the lay of the land around the nation's capital.
Read this when I moved to the Chesapeake bordering community of Poquoson, Va. Was an excellent introduction to the area and culture. Ran into Bull Islanders who could have been the prototypes used to develop some of the cast.
I was loving this up until just prior to the Civil War when it started to go downhill for me. Too much politics and social commentary. Everything before that though was fabulous.
I grew up with sagas and just ate up all the Michener books while in high school.
At one point, a character towards the end of Chesapeake says "Oh Jesus...
The last chapter in a Michener book, Chesapeake is no exception, is some sort of clash of descendants that has been building up since the first chapter (in some cases, since the earth began): in Poland, it's the clash between the Poles and the Russians; in The Covenant it's the clash between defenders of apartheid and the heroes who fought against it.
He has to end the books somehow, because history doesn't end.
I have a complicated emotional relationship with this book, which I have only just now read.
I remember being a diffucult age, somewhere in the beginning stages of adolescence, and digging my fingernails into my palms as nana explained in terribly long winded detail the plot of this book.
James Michener is an author I've never read but have always associated with feeling trapped and bored, with screaming inside.
Nana, long dead, was with me when I read this.
I also recognized her in the troubling way this book dealt with race and slavery.
In matters of race this book has not aged well.
At 1,001 pages, this is the longest book I have ever read!
I had had my eye on it for some time, and a recent trip to the Chesapeake sparked my interest and I brought it along.
Broken up into 14 "Voyages", the book could have been chunked into shorter novels, each focusing on a time period.
The reason why this book earned a third star, in my view, is because of the tireless effort and research it must've taken to study the history of the Chesapeake Bay region, and then to write a fiction story, intertwining fiction with history and real characters like Washington, Franklin, Calhoun, and even Hitler.
I am interested in reading some other Michener, but not right now.
This is my first Michener book and I am sorry it took me so long to read this author. The size of his books made me hesitant to start a book. I loved this book and the way he used the geese, ducks and crane throughout the book. My favorite chapters were the stories about the ducks. Michener uses fictional families to tell the story of the Chesapeake area (VA and Maryland). He doesn't shy away from the ugly period of slavery and is an excellent story teller. I am a new fan. This book does contain profanity
First book I ever read by Michener. Love at first read! It's been a staple read of mine, every few years, when I crave a sweeping saga of historical fiction! This is the best! It's such a comfortable world to get lost into for hours; so detailed, plenty of riveting events, and amazing characters. So well researched!Oddly, I read several other of his books and just could never get into them like I did this one. He's an amazing writer! Highly recommend this one.
This book contained a plethora of information and I did learn a great deal about this area of our country. However, I could have done without the tragedy of one Steed couple--a little far-fetched--and of the details of his inappropriate relationship with a slave. The book followed the familiar Michener pattern of starting at the beginning...and I mean the beginning...and working toward modern-day. At times the pattern results in a contrived story line. I plan to visit many of these places soon and will be somewhat prepared for what I will see because of this thorough book.
Chesapeake was the first Michener novel I have read. It doesn’t seem to me that authors write epic novels with such historical accuracy these days. The story gripped me and I’m eager to read more of his writing!
Not his best, but I learned things about a part of the country I am not familiar with.
Sweeping saga of a place, made more personally interesting to me by the fact that I've spent 19 of the last 22 years in this region. Definitely a worthwhile read, but pacing was strange, sometimes going into great detail about a particular event or couple of hours, then glossing over a decade or two. The story held my interest, but I wish I'd read the paper or electronic version instead of listening to the audiobook because I wasn't drawn to the narrator's style. Speeding it up helped, but I still recommend taking this one in via print.
