https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/761449.Destination_Void
From the opening lines of desperate but intentional destruction and throughout the tight narrative, Frank Herbert has crafted in his 1966 novel Destination: Void a seamless thread of tension and psychological intrigue.
One character asks, “We have manipulated mathematical infinity; why can’t we manipulate God?” The forced perspectuve narrative describes a microcosm of humanity that is at once itself manipulated and suspended without free will and at the same time questioning the very nature of consciousness and how a human is defined.
Destination: Void may also have inspired the producers of The Matrix films.
Herbert has created a highly focused character study of humanity at the edge of itself, a staged drama in a single act with the human ego in the spotlight.
It's strange that the sequel to this novel is my favorite book of all time and yet I only gave this one two stars.
Part of the problem is that most of this book is really just a philosophical dialog about the nature of consciousness and an attempt to mathematically define it.
Which is too bad as the idea of what is consciousness is such a fascinating topic.This book is only for die-hard Herbert fans and those who like convoluted discussions about the nature of consciousness.
The book reads more like a play written in prose form, as it takes place solely on board the bridge of a spaceship and it is almost 95% dialogue.
The premise: a small crew of six is manning a spaceship carrying a cargo of thousands of humans in suspended animation in the hopes of reaching an Earth-like planet in the Tau Ceti galaxy to colonize.
Herbert uses the book's plot as a forum for some very ethical discussions on creating artificial intelligence and on the nature of human consciousness itself.
problem is, the giant mutated brains on their spaceship all went insane and died, so they have to create a consciousness (I think) that will be able to take over the ship's functions and yay, everyone lives.Most of the novel is thick, clotty technical dialogue that you drown in very quickly, but you don't care, because they're building God, the female pilot is experimenting with hallucinogenic drugs and trying to suppress her horniness, the religious character wants to kill everybody and the main guy ignores everyone and dares the cops to show up.
The action in this book centers around an "umbilicus" crew of four and their ship, Earthling, that is carrying a massive cargo of hibernating colonists meant to colonize a planet in the distant Tau Ceti system.
This leaves the crew scrambling to develop an artificial consciousness to control the ship before they are destroyed, either by external forces or by one of their own.
This book is a difficult but rewarding read that actually doesn't center around the plot.
The discussions on consciousness gave me a rough idea of what the crew was after and did produce a few "ah ha" moments.
This books manages, despite significant flaws, to engagingly mix a golden age of sci-fi "engineers solving a technical problem" kind of plot with wild philosophizing and thriller elements.It rests on a somewhat wonky premise (I'm not spoiling anything btw - the following is all revealed early on).
Apparently, in the future, the most effective and cost-efficient way to research artificial consciousness is to build a huge colonization ship and launch it towards Tau Ceti with its self-monitoring mechanisms (disembodied human brains hooked up to the ship's computers) programmed to fail, so that the crew has to create a artificial consciousness to guide and monitor the ship, or perish if they fail to do so.
A bunch of tech cwap end to end. While you can glimpse Herbert's talent for high quality dialog, it's all about exchanging tech theories between four clones, 3 dudes and 1 dudette, oh, and handling cables.
This is not a novel.
It is a meditation on computers, AI, and Consciousness, as seen in 1978.
Without all the speculation, it would have made a decent novella.
But speculation is what it was all about with much discussion of early computers and whether or not they can be aware.
It comes from the time, when computers were still considered dangerous (see HAL 9000 and many other rogue computer stories.), which is not a negative in itself.
:-) It's the only novel I've tried to read in decades by skimming whole pages.
Before Frank Herbert's Dune and the money machine it became, he wrote some very interesting science fiction. Destination Void isn't his best writing but it sets up another book, The Jesus Incident which is much better. Although I read and enjoyed The Jesus Incident long ago, I'm looking forward to reading it again now that I understand the environment better. For those of you who liked the sudden POV switches of Dune, often paragraph by paragraph, you'll find yourself on familiar turf with Destination Void. Herbert flips between the four primary characters readily.
This book loses one star only for the characters who became walking dialogue for much of the book, but oh such dialogue!!! I started this book because my brain had been sluggish from fatigue, illness, and grief. I wanted something to sort of rehab my head and get me back to full editing strength. This book really jump-started the old noggin! I wish they still wrote more sci-fi like this, only maybe with better characters. I will totally be checking out the rest of the series. But for now, back to pushing commas, because this book healed my brain! :)
One of Herbert's more obscure works, my verdict could only be 'fantastic'. Absolutely fantastic - so much so, in fact, that I think it should be required reading for anyone interested in AI/AGI. Of course, having been written in the late 60s/early 70s, the tech being talked of is somewhat dated, and some of the concepts went over my head somewhat (I am not a computer engineer) - however, the philosophy exploring our concepts of consciousness were extremely interesting and insightful.Read it, and pass it on to your friends. I have :)
I question how I got through it now, as much of it was likely well over my pathetically thick head back then, and the rest reads like a text book.Still...it's Frank Herbert, the author I once read described (very appropriately) as, "I think, therefore I write." In other words, he doesn't necessarily filter for his audience.
That's both a curse and a blessing when it comes to reading him.And in this case, when the bulk of the book is a discussion on what it means to be conscious, mixed in with a little religion, it's a fascinating--if dense--read.
I can't help but feel this book is the beginning of the whole history of Dune and the Machine Wars. I know it's not but this book is outstanding. It asks just a simple question. Rather philosophical for sci-fi. Herbert always had a habit of researching every idea he had in order to make it as true as possible.
If you like to read about/listen to computer nerds talk about artificial intelligence and system hardware then this book is for you.
A good 90% of Destination: Void by Frank Herbert is gobbledygook.
Another 8% is characters talking to themselves or thinking (out loud to us) in the same way that was super effective in Dune, but here seems overly melodramatic.
Years after this was originally written, Herbert took the thread and ran with it, and from what I understand, one needn't read Gobbledygook: A Novel, to read the others, and I recommend that route.
Reading Destination: Void illuminates Herbert's strategies and styles in a behind-the-scenes type fashion.
For that, it's a must read for Herbert enthusiasts, just don't expect to like the novel for itself.
Destination: Void is about a crew of clones sent on a mission to colonize another planet.
The earlier missions all failed for various reasons and were destroyed by one of the cloned crewmembers who knew what the secret mission was.While the premise is good, I found this book so full of techno-psycho-babble that it made almost no sense.
While I'm pretty sure stored-program computers existed in the period, the ship computer in the book seems to operate on older principles.Another problem is that not much happens in a plot sense.
The Jesus Incident is a better (i.e., more conventional) novel, and can be read and understood without having read Destination: Void.
The complications to this plot are what add the really interesting elements: The crew and colonists are all clones, the ship's system failures and poor design may have been intentional, and some of the crew members know more about what's going on than others.
Herbert chooses to avoid advancing the plot for long stretches in lieu of extended dialogues featuring the crew arguing with each other over theoretical concepts in artificial intelligence.
Reading as an adult, I have enough confidence in my experience and intelligence to recognize that much of Herbert's computer science technobabble is complete nonsense.
They are traveling at near relativistic speeds, threatened seemingly by It is the sinking ship story, more along the lines of the distressed submarine story, but space is so much more quiet, the dangerous so much more strange, its violence striking without warning or explanation.
The four crew, awake, or so they believe, responsible for the thousands of others, encounter strange problems until they are forced to realize things are not what they seem, the mission, they had been bred and trained their whole lives for, isn't the destination at all.
The mission is to conquer the void, and not merely the void of space.
IN this book, Herbert shows off his knowledge of 60s-era computer programming/systems engineering and physiology of the human brain, and religion.
As a computer programmer, i particularly enjoyed this novel because its largely around technical problems.
The sense of wonder, that theres a big mysterious universe out there, is also present here.My only real negative here is that I feel that the character of Prudence is wasted - she doesnt really contribute much to the overall plot.
Also the book is a bit short for how big of a scale it is, but theres more in the series for me to (hopefully) enjoy.
If you are more familiar with Herbert's work this can be an enjoyable book.
Destination: Void is one of his most dense and technical books though and it will certainly not appeal to everyone.
By today's standards it is a pretty short book but most of it consists of the crew members working through various technical problems and that is certainly not enough to keep everybody entertained.
I enjoyed parts of it but on the whole it is not an outstanding book.
As much as I like Herbert's writing, this one is probably destined to obscurity...
Maybe my perspective is too modern, but as a computer scientist I found it painful to read these 'technical descriptions'.
I've read technical descriptions of 1940s computers and I find them fascinating but this book is not.
It's like Herbert didn't understand the terms or he was trying to sound 'futuristic' by making up new terms.
The Dune books were great, but I winced at least once reading them when I read a passage describing the cryogenic treatment of a weapon that was cooled to -100 degrees Kelvin.
Anyone with a high school understanding of physics should know that 0 Kelvin is the coldest temperature possible.
This book could've become a timeless novel exploring the ideas of consciousness and artificial intelligence but instead it was filled with long sequences of technobabble and shallow psychology all which felt very dated. When it was originally published in 1966, this probably worked well, however it didn't stand the test of time like some other science fiction novels have.The overall pace of the book was slow, few times tension was built up only to fizzle out. The last few chapters where the pace and tension really picked up and things got interesting were no different, resulting in a lackluster ending.
What is best about this book is the situation Herbert set up.
The execution was poor, filled with ridiculous jargon and some truly implausible physics developments.
Herbert did not understand AI or physics.
He also did not really address many of the issues involved in his premise.The basic ideas behind the story could be used to write a great book.
Had this been my only introduction to Herbert, I would never have read another by him.
I will follow up with the next book in this series, because I have it and he has written a lot of good stuff.
dont read this book!
on a whim, i bought this and the subsequent 3 sequels, thinking that they would be good since i heard good thing about these books on some online forum.
nope.
truthfully, i dont know how good the sequels are.
they were co-written with another author, so maybe he told frank that his ideas in destination: void were awful.
i think this was herberts attempt at a hard scifi that focuses more on the science than the characters.
it just seemed like reading a theoretical science book.
boring.
maybe the sequels are good, though...
Having gorged all Dune books (by 'all' Herbert authors), I thought it's time to try another book by Frank Herbert.Not only does this feel like it was written by a different author, but by an author I don't like one bit. The writing style is confusing, the plot is unintelligible, and the characters are as good as non-existent.Luckily it's over fast, and I treated it as a non-inspired 'prequel' to the trilogy size expansion that followed 15-20 years later with the help of Bill Ransom.
I don`t know why I never read this or the subsequent novels when I was devouring the Dune books. But I`m glad I didn`t. I don`t think I would have really grasped the concepts here if I had read it then. As it stands, having Awakened I recognized the states of mind leading up to Recognition AND the Awakened states described. This is a brilliant work!!
I don`t know why I never read this or the subsequent novels when I was devouring the Dune books. But I`m glad I didn`t. I don`t think I would have really grasped the concepts here if I had read it then. As it stands, having Awakened I recognized the states of mind leading up to Recognition AND the Awakened states described. This is a brilliant work!!
Extremely thought provoking and would make a great movie.I found myself thinking and talking about this a lot.My only negative is the amount of technical detail in building the machine with 1960s technology. It was a chore to get through those bits, and they were not needed.However, the conversations about the meaning of consciousness were fantastic and the novel had a GREAT ending.
I know this was written in 1966, but the story is full of glaring plot holes, BS technobabble, and outdated ideas of "consciousness"/AI. The only thing that made it bearable was the fact that I got the audiobook version and it was narrated by Scott Brick.
This hodge-podge of lame existentialism, pseudopsychology, technojargon, and pseudomathematics sets the stage for what I understand to be an interesting series. An incredibly immature novel by an otherwise most impressive author. Skip this book and go straight to the Jesus Incident.
This book is incredible.
