https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/948085.How_to_Be_an_Alien
Things were not done electronically in those days, and the seller had come in with a roll of a dozen or so title deeds done up with a rubber band.
He took off the rubber band and spread them out on the table, while the buyer carefully read through each one before handing over a check for the equivalent of several million dollars.
The buyer started getting ready to leave, and suddenly asked:"Could I have the rubber band please?
"That'll be another ten cents."____________________________[Update, Mar 20 2018]I thought of this episode again the other day when we watched Christopher Plummer's masterly portrayal of John Paul Getty in All the Money in the World.
When some years ago, knowing ten words of English and using them all wrong, I applied for a translator's job, my would be employer (or would-be-not-employer) softly remarked: 'I afraid your English is somewhat unorthodox.' This translated into any continental language would mean: EMPLOYER (to the commissionaire): 'Jean, kick this gentleman down the steps!' The Hungarian George Mikes wrote this brief introduction to living in the UK shortly after WWII. While not entirely au courant it does, unli
When some years ago, knowing ten words of English and using them all wrong, I applied for a translator's job, my would be employer (or would-be-not-employer) softly remarked: 'I afraid your English is somewhat unorthodox.' This translated into any continental language would mean: EMPLOYER (to the commissionaire): 'Jean, kick this gentleman down the steps!'
While not entirely au courant it does, unlike many a guide to life in the UK, provide you with helpful advice about what to do if you become a bus driver or what to say if you get elected to the House of Commons.Short.
"Continental people have sex lives; the English have hot water bottles."Need I say more?Five stars, all the way.
I’d heard this line before, though I can’t remember where: “An Englishman, even if he is alone, forms an orderly queue of one.”Other favorite lines:“It is all right to have central heating in an English home, except the bath room, because that is the only place where you are naked and wet at the same time, and you must give British germs a fair chance.” [this reminds me of when my mother made her first trip to England in 2004 to visit me during my study abroad year; in her family newsletter reporting on the experience, one of her key observations was, “British bathrooms are antiquated.” My husband and I still quote this to each other regularly.]“Street names should be painted clearly and distinctly on large boards.
But somehow, though he didn't intend the book to be amusing, the English people read it and thought it was funny.
If somebody tells you an obviously untrue story, on the Continent you would remark "You are a liar, Sir, and a rather dirty one at that." In England you just say "Oh, is that so?" Or "That's rather an unusual story, isn't it?"***In the last century, when a wicked and unworthy subject annoyed the Sultan of Turkey or the Czar of Russia, he had his head cut off without much ceremony; but when the same happened in England, the monarch declared: "We are not amused"; and the whole British nation even now, a century later, is immensely proud of how rude their Queen was.***A continental gentleman seeing a nice panorama may remark:"This view reminds me of Ultrecht, where the peace treaty concluding the War of Spanish Succession was signed on the 11th April, 1713.
ينقل الكتاب أحاديث الإنجليز عن الطقس ويتناول لغتهم وأساليب تعبيرهم وما يعتبرونه فظاً ونحوه.
بعض الاقتباسات من الكتاب: "إذا ما كنت تشبه الإنجليز فإنهم يرون أنك مضحك.
إذا لم تكن تشبههم فإنهم يرون أنك مضحكٌ أكثر " " في إنجلترا الناس لا يكادون يكذبون أبدا، ولكنهم لا يكادون يكونون صادقين معك أيضاً.
ويتحدث بتهكم عن الفعل المستخدم في الإنجليزية لذلك وهو: naturalize والذي يعني حرفيا: أن يُحول الشخص إلى شخص طبيعي.
إن الفعل " يجنس naturalize " يبين لك أنه ينبغي أن تصير بريطانياً لكي تكون إنساناً طبيعياً.
لتصير شخصاً حقيقياً، ينبغي أن تصير بريطانياً.
Driven by his frustration to always being treated as the foreigner in a country where he’s doing his very best to blend in, Hungarian-born George Mikes set out to ridicule the English.
The English couldn’t get enough of Mikes, and I think he might have overlooked the fact that, if anything, the British like nothing better than to ‘take the piss’.
How to be an Alien is an entertaining guide to the workings of British society, both for Aliens (such as myself) and the English.

An immigrant's view on English. First published in 1946 this little book is still funny and rings true. The book is full of awesome quotes like: In the last century, when a wicked and unworthy subject annoyed the Sultan of Turkey or the Czar of Russia, he had his head cut off without much ceremony; but when the same happened in England, the monarch declared: “We are not amused”; and the whole British nation even now, a century later, is immensely proud of how rude their Queen was.
Some years ago I spent a lot of time with a young lady who was very proud and conscious of being English.
My mother would never agree to my marrying a foreigner.’ She looked at me a little surprised and irritated, and retorted: ‘I, a foreigner?
A foreigner cannot improve.
He may become British; he can never become English.When I began reading this, I almost wanted to say it was before it’s time.
I laughed out loud so many times, the humour is just perfect and the manner in which the author goes about ‘calling out’ the prejudices of white English people echoes the same jokes made today.
In England everything is different. You must understand that when people say'England', they sometimes mean 'Great Britain'(England, Scotland and W'ales), sometimes 'the United Kingdom' (England, Scotland,'Wales and Northern Ireland), sometimes the'British Isles' (England, Scotland,Wales, Northern lreland and the Republic of Ireland) - but never just England....In Europe nobody talks about the weather; in England, you have to say 'Nice day, isn't it?'about two hundred times every day, or people think you are a bit boring. ...Very humorous little book.
The was quite a fun read.'An Englishman, even if he is alone, forms an orderly queue of one'.
Nice quick read about the differences between English people and Continential people. Really enjoyed the parts about the British loving to queue up in line and designing their streets to be crooked and the ridiculousness of street naming. Fun light read.
Je to neoceniteľný pocit keď držiac knihu v ruke do vás vojde neovládateľný smiech a vám nezostáva nič iné, len vyjsť s farbou von a začať sa nahlas smiať.
Je preto riskantné napríklad takéto knihy vláčiť po Londýnskej MHD, čo som spravil.
O to viac mi ale chutil pohľad na všetkých ľudí, na ktorých George Mikes ušil túto knižku na mieru.
Možno to nie je nič výnimočné sadnúť si so zmiešanými pocitmi za stôl a napísať pár strán o tom akí sú ľudia medzi ktorými budete žiť.
George Mikes ale nenapísal fádnu knihu o "bytí" v cudzej zemi.
Spravil príručku pre ľudí z kontinentu Európa, akoby to skutočne bola cudzia planéta.
Life, Character, attraction, English, differences, funny, daily4 a).
When I read this paragraph, I wonder the driver may be crazy because if he does these things, people must be angry and face on some dangerouses of course.
So I guess this is a bad point of English character but in this book, the author wrote down this as funny things.
So first, I wondered the author was rude to write such an article, but his impressions were attractive and funny so I could enjoy them and learn about English people as I mentioned before, So I want te recommend this you!
Techincally I did not read this book. I read "How to be an alien : in Britain, France, Italy, Germany, Switzerland, Israel, Japan" Which is significantly longer (about 266 pages) but it is not listed on Goodreads...I can't believe it, this site has finally let me down.I think that some of the references are obviously a bit dated, but I enjoyed the dry sarcastic humor. It is entertaining to look at cultural differences and poke fun at them.
একটু অফেনসিভ, আমার কাছে মনে হইছে খুবই সুসবাদু। এই লোক বরিটিশ না জেনে খুবই অবাক হইছি, আমার ধারণা ঠিক এইটাই বরিটিশ হিউমার।আমার কপিতে পঞচানন ছাপপানন দুই পেইজ মিসিং। নেটে এই বইয়ের রিটোলড (পড়ুন কনডেনসড) ভারশন পাওয়া যায় কেবল। এত ছোটো একটা বইরে আরো ছোটো করার দরকার কী ছিলো কে জানে। অফেনসিভ হয়ে গেছিলো মনে হয় বেশি।
একটু অফেন্সিভ, আমার কাছে মনে হইছে খুবই সুস্বাদু। এই লোক ব্রিটিশ না জেনে খুবই অবাক হইছি, আমার ধারণা ঠিক এইটাই ব্রিটিশ হিউমার।আমার কপিতে পঞ্চান্ন ছাপ্পান্ন দুই পেইজ মিসিং। নেটে এই বইয়ের রিটোল্ড (পড়ুন কন্ডেন্সড) ভার্শন পাওয়া যায় কেবল। এত ছোটো একটা বইরে আরো ছোটো করার দরকার কী ছিলো কে জানে। অফেন্সিভ হয়ে গেছিলো মনে হয় বেশি।
Recuerdo que pasé un buen rato cuando lo leí en su día. Te ríes un montón con la ironía explicando las formas de actuar y ser de los british, según éste hijo adoptivo de Gran Bretaña (creo recordar que era húngaro). Para pasar un buen rato.
Not an unpleasant read. In fact, really rather nice. Like the weather.
Hungarian-born journalist and humorist Mikes is very amusing in his instructions for how to cope with the English as an alien.
In the preface he says, "The reception given to this book when it first appeared in the autumn of 1946, was at once a pleasant surprise and a disappointment for me.
A surprise, because the reception was so kind; a disappointment for the same reason .
I expected the English to be up in arms against me but they patted me on the back; I expected the British nation to rise in wrath but all they said, was: 'quite amusing'.
This one was short but enjoyable."If it's true that you're an alien in England, it's also true in Hungary and North Borneo and Venezuela and everywhere". She was right, of course, and I was unhappy about it. There is no way out of it. Other people can change. A criminal can perhaps change his ways and become a better person but a foreigner cannot change. A foreigner is always a foreigner. So it is better to understand that you are always a foreigner.
Many moments of recognition and spontaneous laughs on my way home in the underground. If the author would be a blogger, he'd probably be one I'd take the effort to follow. It'd be a decent weekly insight into the life of an alien - somewhat comforting, somewhat witty, but most importantly, he's keeping it simple. Read it in Estonian, "Kuidas olla võõramaalane". "Igatahes ei ole kogu see keeleasjandus sugugi lihtne. Olles elanud siin maal juba kaheksa aastat, kuulsin ühel päeval väga südamliku proua käest, et "mis te kurdate. Teil on ometi suurepärane aktsent ilma vähimagi inglise keeleta"."
This funny book maked me excited to read it more. Before I didn't understand what was this book talking about? What was an alien that writer's mean? This book tells lots of steps to being an alien? Many funnies step that wrote here. The different habits between English and European.. Yeaahh, I think you must read it to know more about how to be an Alien by George Mikes.
A very short read full of sarcasm and witty statements. This is a super funny book , ofcourse you will be able to relate to it more if you have some experience with the English or have been to England yourself. Nevertheless everyone would enjoy this but dont take it too seriously ,after all it was written in 1946 and not everything may hold true as per today's English society.
that was really funny, although I regret that the story isn't more modern.
Simply genius.
'An Englishman, even if he is alone, forms an orderly queue of one'.Perfect.
Fast read, funny, and even though it was written more than 70 year ago it perfectly describes English people.
Dated, but at the time this book was written very sharp observations, that are witty as well. The section on Japan interested me of course.
Una pequeña delicia, a veces muy divertido, y recomendable si te gusta mínimamente el Reino Unido. Escrito en 1946 por un húngaro residente en Reino Unido, ironiza sobre las peculiaridades de los británicos desde su punto de vista. Envejece muy bien; supongo que contribuyó en su momento a la imagen extravagante que tenemos desde "el continente" de los británicos.
