https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/22209.Lullaby_Town
I don't mean that the book is fabulous; I was starting to despair that I could find a private eye series that didn't involve cats or serial killers.
I tell him you're brilliant and gifted, you make with the humor, he's gonna know that you're not.'"Elvis is not in the least a tortured soul, and as for his bestie, Joe Pike, well, who knows?
Kudos to Crais for being ahead of his time.As far as I can tell, the only downside is that Elvis does indeed own a cat, who probably a closet serial killer.
If you're into stuff like this, you can read the full review.We Are Silent Killers: "Lullaby Town" by Robert CraisLullaby Town, a dark drive down somerockspotted track. We are silent. Killers.With gloves from the farmer’s wife we trudgeto a cold outbuilding, strip-lit and grey.Machines and men turn in the shed next door.Protests and filthy jokes from the doomed birds.
A Hollywood director hires Elvis Cole to track down a wife and son he abandoned a decade earlier.
Crazy mobsters, secret deals between crime families, and a Hollywood director that is a colossal asshole make for a great story.
As always, Crais let the tension build until a great firefight at the end.Karen Lloyd, the ex-wife, was far more than a damsel in distress and my favorite member of the supporting cast.
Crais gave us more of a look into the psyche of Elvis Cole, as well as a tiny glimpse behind Joe Pike's sunglasses.The more Robert Crais books I read, the more convinced I am that he is the real deal.
I’m now thinking that Crais needed a few books to find his own rhythm, and I enjoyed the hell out of this third book in the series.Elvis gets hired by famous action move director Peter Alan Nelson to locate the son he had from a brief marriage ten years earlier.
Elvis wants to help Karen out, but dealing with the mob will be easy compared to trying to cope with Peter Alan Nelson and his gigantic ego.I got to meet Robert Crais and watch him on a couple of panels at Bouchercon in St. Louis, and after listening to the guy, my opinion of him improved tremendously.
However, the story finally starts to pick up momentum when it reaches the East Coast, where the mafia, and hence, all of this book's action, is.A pattern in this series is starting to emerge, beginning with Cole working alone to solve a mystery, then bringing in Pike when things start to get out of hand, and climaxing with a gunfight with that book's bad guys.
I would also like to see more of the enigmatic Joe Pike, who is easily the most interesting character in the entire series.I'll continue reading this series -- I've heard it gets stronger as it progresses -- but I won't listen to another audiobook, as I didn't care for the narrator's interpretation of Elvis Cole (which is important, as it is first-person narrated).
Elvis and Joe are involved with a Hollywood wunderkind, who's looking for his ex-wife and son who's now an adolescent.
Elvis's problem is that he cares too much, and thinks he can fix it, but enter the East coast mob, and the action skyrockets.A multiple time of reading these novels.
One of my fav exchanges: "I looked back at Karen and then at Peter.
"Do it."Karen said, "They're going to kill us, aren't they?""They're going to try.
'They're trapped with us."Smart-guy Elvis and the enigma Joe battle mobsters and Hollywood elite trying to help a director find the son he never wanted to be a father to.
Another great Elvis Cole story!
Synopsis/blurb.......Peter Alan Nelsen is a super successful movie director who is used to getting what he wants.
It's the kind of case that Cole could handle in his sleep, except that when Cole actually finds Nelsen's ex wife, everything takes on nightmarish proportions a nightmare which involves Cole with a nasty New York mob family and a psychokiller who is the son of the godfather.
Cole, always a sympathetic ear for a damsel in distress holds off from reporting back to his employer, endeavouring to try and extricate Kathy from Charlie DeLuca clutches first.
Audiobook: Cole is hired by an arrogant and self-absorbed Hollywood director to find his estranged wife and son, now gone for more than 10 years.
He just wants to connect with his son.
Now, I think Cole screwed up by trying to fix things in his macho way.
She wanted nothing to do with Peter, the Hollywood bigshot, and to my way of thinking should have had nothing to do with Cole either.All that aside, at least Cole uses his brain to figure a way out for her by pitting one member of the “family” against another.
Predictable. Shoot this guy, shoot that guy, shoot the other one. Bad guys are violent, good guys are better shots. Ho hum.
Good Elvis Cole/Joe Pike case. I especially liked it because they are not super heroes.
L.A. Requim, which is the 8th Elvis Cole novel, is what landed him as an author that defied all genres and in it outsurpassed even the legendary Ross Macdonald.Enough about Crais, the guy's good.
Use him too much and you wonder why he isn't the main character (we know Crais has struggled with this as he produced 4 separate novels featuring Pike as the hero); use him too little and you start wondering why the big guns aren't being pulled out by Elvis.
We are never more beautiful than when we are burning.Like I said, it really came together following the publication of his 8th Elvis Cole novel.
Elvis only gets more and more likable and Pike only gets more and more badass.
A quick aside about Pike, I really don’t get the hate he gets sometimes.
The character’s whole charm is that you don’t ever know what’s going on in the dude’s head other than he’s Cole’s buddy to the death and will put a motherfucker on ice with the greatest of ease.
I did find it funny that even Cole has no idea as to how Pike can see in the dark with his ever-present sunglasses on.
Onward to more Cole/Pike goodness with Free Fall!
The World's Greatest Detective, Elvis Cole, gets hired by the world's third most famous movie director, Peter Alan Nelson, to locate his ex-wife and son whom he lost contact with when the son was just a baby more than ten years ago.
The World's Greatest Detective offers to help her make that happen.But in order to accomplish that, of course, Elvis has to call in the big guns - i.e, his partner, Joe Pike.
This was the third in Robert Crais' Elvis Cole series and it seems to be a bit of a turning point.
Check.The main plot starts with the aforementioned movie exec who was married, had a son, got divorced, and never gave his family a second thought until ten years later when he suddenly wants to be the boy's father.
The other main plot is that his ex-wife has a new life, a new name, and is involved in a money-laundering scheme with the Mafia that she wants out of.
It boiled down to "I needed the money." Again, very unsatisfying.Lullaby Town winds up being a lackluster and disappointing novel, in large part because the story wasn't bad, but with some thought and effort, it could have been so much better.
I love the humour and style of these stories and Lullaby Town is my favourite of the series so far.
The story is taken to New York where Cole and Pike are up against violent mafia families as they adapt to being fishes out of the water in this unfamiliar environment.Crais keeps the story moving along at a fairly rapid pace, a feature being the dialogue he writes for all his characters as well as a snappy first person narrative.
I highly recommend this guy for lovers of crime fiction that like a humorous yet integrity-filled main character written with quick fire pacing.
Elvis Cole dealing with old school wiseguys, a movie director who is a spoiled brat, and the director's long-gone runaway ex-girlfriend. Joe Pike, as ever, is a class act
You gotta love Elvis Cole and Joe PikeThese two guys are guys you want on your side if you got trouble. Love these books and the conversations.
Another good one.
A more developed version of this appears on my blog, Irresponsible Reader, as part of my Reread Project.-----The third book in the Elvis Cole series is about sixty pages longer than the previous -- and it was about sixty pages longer than the first.
But the growth isn't just in page count; it's in depth of story, depth of character, and the way Crais deals with making sure neither plot nor character get short-shrifted in this.There's an obvious effort here to establish a series continuity here with The Monkey's Raincoat.
In Stalking the Angel, Elvis makes reference to keeping in touch with a couple of former clients, and with Ellen's appearance we see him doing that again.
When the time comes for a confrontation at the end of the book, both Pike and Cole deliver the explosive action that make for very entertaining reading.Some Crais trademarks are here that we see in the previous books: clients who are flawed, yet capable of growth.
I also liked the numerous dead-ends in this book that struck me as true to life.Readers of his first novel, "The Monkey's Raincoat" will be rewarded with an appearance by Ellen Lang, the main character of the first book.All in all, Lullaby Town is a great mix of humor, action and plot, along with good character developmentand an entertaining and frequently funny narrative by Crais.
Entrate!» Ecco il memorabile video Welcome back my friends to the show that never ends, we so glad you could attend, come inside, come inside ....Robert Crais è un autore che mi piace ma questo libro ha una trama che proprio non convince, tanto sono belli i primi romanzi e ancora migliori i successivi, tanto "la città dorme" è banale e inutile.Sicuramente restano i due protagonisti Elvin Cole e Joe Pike e non è poco la possibilità di riascoltare gli Emerson Lake & Palmer dopo tanti anni; ma è tutto qui.Elvin Cole sempre simpatico e ricco di battute Tolsi la maglietta e infilai una camicia hawaiana bianca e gialla, presi la pistola Dan Wesson calibro 38 e una giacca da cameriere azzurro chiaro.
There's alot of "hand spreading" and "hissing" in this one but the story line is good and the conclusion benefits most.
I like how Crais melded the stories together as the outcome was very nearly plausible.
Again, dead bodies abound by the end but hey, they started it.
I just really like Elvis and Joe - there's more Joe in this one.
I started the Joe Pike series first so I've been more familiar with him and his way of doing business.
Elvis working w/Joe in this series are just as good, if not better, together so I'm enjoying this series.
Rereading this series has made me appreciate it even more than at first glance. These first books are much better than I realized and it's been so long since I first read them that I'm still able to be surprised at the twists. Have always loved the relationship between Cole and Pike and it shines again here. The story is fast moving, interesting, and with enough sly humor to balance out the seriousness of Cole is uncovering. Plus you get some serious mob action and who doesn't like that?
Another fun ride with sardonic LA detective Elvis Cole and his laconic warrior sidekick Joe Pike. This time an obnoxious Hollywood producer hires him to find his ex-wife and child, who departed 10 years previously, and the search leads him to Connecticut and a major conflict with New York City Mafia. Twice we are lulled into thinking the case is concluded, and twice we are surprised. Nicely plotted with intrigue, mayhem, and humor.
A great take on LA. Admittedly, you can argue that about all his books. But I liked it a lot.
Another fun Cole/Pike story. Nothing too complex just a quick, entertaining read.
What can I say? Is there ever a bad Robert Crais mystery? I don't think so.This is one of the earlier ones and has a few too many stops and starts and twists, but it still getds 4 stars.
The Mafia!   Written by Robert Crais, and published by Bantam Books/Hatchett Book Group, Inc. in 1992, this book is the third of the author’s series of novels about a hard-bitten, wise-cracking Hollywood private detective named Elvis Cole. Cole is a tough Vietnam Veteran with expertise in the Martial Arts. His partner is Joe Pike, a shadowy former Special Operator in ‘Nam who met Cole after both of them had been discharged from the military. This story begins with a famous Hollywood movie dire
This story begins with a famous Hollywood movie director hiring Elvis to find his ex-wife and twelve year-old son, Toby.
Elvis soon tracks the missing ex-wife and son to a small city in Connecticut, called Chelam, where she is the manager of the local bank.
Joe Pike flies out to join Elvis, and to deal with one of the large New York City crime families: the DeLucas.
On page #29, for example, Peter Alan Nelsen is eating “Payday” candy bars and dropping the wrappers on the floor.
Karen had made a new life for herself and her son Toby, but unfortunately she owes Charlie the Tuna favors, and he refuses to let her go.
Elvis and Pike discover that Charlie has been going behind his Father's back and stealing drugs from another Mafia family.
They plan to blackmail Charlie with the info to get him to let Karen go, but before they can Peter goes to Charlie and blabs.
With only one way out Cole and Pike cut a deal with Sal but Charlie has other plans.
After killing his Father he goes gunning for Karen and her family, but this time Pike and Cole stop him permanently.
