https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/238117.A_Touch_of_Death
Little does Lee know that other people have their sights set on the money and the widow herself.
And Madelon Butler, the widow, is the most deadly of them all...A Touch of Death has many of the things I look for in a crime novel.
Madelon Butler is by far the most interesting character in the novel; beautiful, cold, calculating, and deadly.
The suspense was good but not as good as in the Hotspot.The final verdict is that this isn't a bad read but is neither the best Hard Case nor the best Charles Williams book.
I was never less than fully absorbed in this tale of a former college football star who plans to steal $120,000 in "easy money" from a vacant house, but gets a lot more than he bargained in his newly-met, ultra-conniving female partner, who, unfortunately for him, is the mastermind behind the plan.The action here never lets up, and it's impossible to turn away as the narrator gets in way over his head, but is in too deep to ever turn back.
It's not necessarily a bad book, especially when considered as a product of its time but I was quite disappointed by Charles Williams' A Touch of Death to the point where I'm reconsidering my slavish devotion to the Hard Case imprint.A down on his luck ex-football player gets sucked in to a scam to steal $120k from somebody who has already stolen it from a dead man who had stolen it from a bank.
Sounds fun and convoluted but Williams lost me almost immediately as his naive protagonist immediately became an expert in shady deals, gunplay, criminal planning and house breaking amongst other things.
As with many noir novels, the less you know about the plot going in, the better.
So let me describe my reading experience in abstract: This was my first Charles Williams novel, and when I first read it, I did not know anything about him or his work.
When I started the book, it did not seem like anything special.
But then Williams got his claws into me, and the further I read, the deeper they sank.
By the time I was done with the book, Williams had me shuddering .
A perfect book of its type.First reading: circa January 2006.Second reading: 2 March 2009.
While none of the characters have a great deal of psychological depth, the two elements that I read noir fiction for--suspense and paranoia--are in full force here.
Readers who demand characters with detailed backstories and psychologically comprehensive motivations may find this novel a little slim, but I highly recommend it for all fans of hard-boiled and noir fiction.Note: I read the second edition, which was published by Fawcett Gold Medal in 1963, ten years after the novel's original publication.
I compared the first dozen pages or so with the newest edition published by Hard Case Crime, and the model makes of all the cars were changed for the 1963 edition.
If motion were possible then Achilles, a fast runner, would have no problem catching up to a moving tortoise.
He points out Achilles would first have to reach the spot where the tortoise was, but by the time he did the tortoise would have moved forward.
Achilles then would have to reach the new spot the tortoise occupied, but by the time he did...etc.
Rationality taken to extremes resembles the logic of a nightmare.
I was thinking about what moved me so much about Touch of Death and was reminded of Borges and Zeno's paradox.
This fiction does not have the most likable of characters, but at least it's not obvious. The extreme readability of Charles Williams books is met by the phenomenal plotting.
My fourth book by Charles Williams - my favorite crime fiction writer after Charles Willeford.
One of the things that separates Williams from other crime fiction writers is his attention to detail.
Most other crime fiction writers that I have read (like Gil Brewer, Jim Thompson and Day Keene) don't seem to know much about anything and their characters and plots come across as artificial.
The second one where Lee Scarborough and Madelon Butler are cooped up in a flat could have been used to create some great scenes that provide revealing insights into the characters motivations.
the wife of a banker turned embezzler has a fortune in her house, and since she's the prime suspect in his murder, she can't really complain if it's stolen.A couple double crosses later, our 'hero' is trying to hide out with the wife to get the money before she can get away with it herself or the cops close in.It's hard to describe much of the book without giving it away..
it's full of great twist and turns where you can really feel Lee (the main character) suffering from setbacks and getting excited about new ideas.
Really fine noir novel. It's difficult to write a character's internal monologue and keep the tension levels high but Charles Williams accomplishes that here. The last piece was particularly intense. Much enjoyed.
I can always trust it when I feel like reading something where it's guaranteed that things go horribly wrong or someone goes apeshit.
Scarborough seems like a sleepwalker at times, and although he understands the woman in the bikini is trouble, he's unable to turn away.
The final scene in the car is the hottest thing I've read in a while, and the ending is like a slap in the face, although you always knew what would happen.

Reminiscent of Edgar Ulmer's "Detour" in that it maintains a claustrophobic tension between a man and woman running from the law and not trusting each other. The leading man is an overbearing bully so he's got what's coming to him by the "femme fatale" of the story. In fact the lead guy is such a creep you'll find yourself rooting for Susie Mumble all through the book.Noir should have loads of death AND sex, and Williams never disappoints.
With a background as a merchant sailor, he produced a number of sailing thrillers, of which Dead Calm is the best known, but he also wrote a number of tales set in hot, dusty nowhere towns in the South, in which alienated loners grab a chance for a score that will allow them to escape.In this one, a washed-up former football star is ensnared by not one but two femmes fatales, who are contending over a hundred and twenty grand in cash embezzled by the recently and mysteriously deceased husband of one of them.
A thrilling noir, where neither the hero (if such a term meaningfully can be applied to the protagonist) nor the reader has a clue what's really going on until the end. While not quite "literature," precisely, it's nevertheless a fantastic distillation of the style of crime novels from the 1930-1955 period -- the kind of story where all the women are femme fatales, all the lights are neon, and all the lines are punchlines. This is the type of novel so absorbing that it makes one (literally, in my case) miss Metro stops.
Veoma solidan krimić. Tvrd. Roman je prvi put izašao 1954. godine pod nazivom "Smućkaj sebi crvenokosu", kasnije je štampan kao "Dodir smrti" (prvobitni naslov je maštovitiji i prikladniji). Nije ovo remek, mada Vilijam definitivno zna šta radi. Vidi se da je roman nastao proširivanjem novele, nedostaje događaja. U kraćem obliku je, verujem, još ubitačniji.
A streamlined bullet of a book. A has-been football player gets involved in a scheme to find and claim stolen money. You know it can't go well. This reminded me quite a bit of a terrific movie,  Body Heat. Just as sexy, and just as perverse.
"i really liked this book. williams did a great job. man on the run helping the damsel in disress with a great twist. nicely done."
My favorite Charles Williams book!
Non-stop action, convincing characters, intriguing plot with a (literally) slam bang ending. Williams is one of the most underrated noir/hard crime authors around.
In a minute, it gets worse as Scarborough discovers he's not the only prowler in the house.
She's smart enough to get what she wants by simply outthinking everyone.As the plot continues to thicken, we watch Mr. Scarborough try to think his way out of the hopeless checkmate position that Madelon Butler has maneuvered him into.
The sense of the ever-tightening noose makes this book reminiscent of Jim Thompson's work, though where Thompson is the better psychologist of perversity, Charles Williams is more ingenious at constructing an endlessly twistingplot and a devastatingly effective femme fatale.Madelon Butler, unlike many women in the noir genre, is no underworld tramp.
“The hell with all dizzy women, anyway.” Ex-footballer Lee Scarborough tries flogging his Pontiac to sun-bathing twenty-something nurse Diana James.
Lee Scarborough’s story is age old – destiny is desire – and Williams dutifully enmeshes the poor sap in a fiendishly constructed spider’s web built not by that sun-bathing nurse but by one Madelon Butler whose banker hubby, *it is claimed*, has gone bye-bye with $120k.
"A Touch Of Death" is a great read – right book, right time, for me – and while Madelon Butler may have ice water in her veins at the end you are rather cheering her on.
It is obvious why Hard Case Crime chose this book from among Williams' work to feature in its crime series.Here you have an ex-college football player (Scarborough) reduced to selling door-to-door who explains that "You can't eat six-year-old football scores." He's soured and possibly has run out of dreams at the ripe old age of twenty-eight.You have Diana James, a brunette "sunbathing in the bottom part of a two-fragment bathing suit" who offers him a chance to walk off with a piece of $120,000.
Всякий персонаж Вильямса – предатель. Нельзя шагу ступить, чтобы не оказаться в дураках. Начиная путь с желания продать автомобиль, главный герой будет втянут в череду событий, выбраться из которых без проблем с законом не получится. Предстояло плёвое дело – ограбить дом женщины, убившей мужа-банкира. По свидетельствам нанимателя там должна быть большая сумма денег. А какой американец не мечтает спешно разбогатеть? Правда, совершая противоправное действие, их мозг постоянно точит мысль об электрическом стуле. Но жизнь разрушена, перспектив никаких, поэтому риск кажется оправданным.(c) Trounin
No doubt about it she is good really really good.You get the feeling early on that she is going to con everyone in the story it is just a matter of how she gets there and it is a trip worth of the effort
Fast-paced and enjoyable... I was really trying to figure out myself how the final inevitable double-cross would pan out.
Looking for old-school, guy-oriented, pulp fiction? This delivers - starts off strong and ends stronger.
Relentless, like a chilli seed eyewash.
Adequate pulp but Hard Case Crime has better stuff.
(if it had been written in 1963, long hair would have equated, to me, as hippie - then I'd have thought about whether or not they used the term then and all that, but the book is from 1953).Lee's the only real character with lots of lines.
From his point of view she was a beautiful drunk with ice in her veins.Oh, and I figure I should note that Madelon isn't the woman sunbathing with her bikini straps undone mentioned in the book description.
