https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/768878.Abarat
It's an experience.The whole thing is exquisitely bizarre and beautifully grotesque; populated by an odd cast of characters ranging from John Mischief (whose 7 brothers grow from horns on his head) to Rojo Pixler, entrepreneur and owner of the industrialized island of Pyon, to Christopher Carrion, the Lord of Midnight, who wears a water-filled collar swimming with nightmares.It takes place in the Abarat; an archipelago of 24 islands, where on each island is a different, unchanging time of day.
I think you have to want it to happen to you to open your mouth wide enough to swallow another land of magic, the best friends you'll ever have in your life, maybe you're more special than you realized and the funny feeling there's a movie of you going on is real (um, other people do do that, right?).
I like that Candy Quackenbrush of Chickentown, USA (Minnesota) wants to be in the land of Abarat.
If you don't want that then you won't like Labyrinth.
If you like this you want to know what's different.
This is an excellent book. That doesn't mean you should take it as a life model.
**** October 25, 2018......
Rereading a Third time, this time listening to the audiobook****This is the second time I've read this fascinating, imaginative adventure story.
It is intensely creative, with characters and a world only the mind of Clive Barker could conjure up.If you'd like to take a journey through an extraordinary world with the bizarre and freakishly curious things that live in it, then this is definitely the book for you.Like Night and Day, this story has a bit of an odd, disturbing and eerie dark side...But also has a magical, humorous, and encouraging sunny side.It is undeniably a book you will never forget and it is, without question, still one of my favorite books!*be sure to check out Clive Barker's Abarat books 2 and 3 as well.
We are both artists, and the book is based upon a series of paintings that Barker spent 6 years creating.
Although, I recommend reading the version with the paintings since they are so wonderful and do add an element to the book.The first book is more of a setup for the rest of the series.
I wouldn't consider them horror stories at all, they are fantasy, but there may be characters that could be thought of as scary (there are bad guys, of course).I have recommended this book to everyone I know.
This is a great young adult series that will surely be a classic story in years to come.
Τι συμβαίνει όταν είσαι η Κάντι, ετών 15 και ζεις στη μικρή επαρχιακή σου πόλη που το μόνο αξιόλογο που έχει είναι το εργοστάσιο με τα κοτόπουλα και βαριέσαι τη ζωή σου;Πηγαίνεις στο δάσος, όπου ανακαλύπτεις ότι πέρα από την κοτοπουλο-παραγωγή η βαρετή Κοτοπουλόπολη είναι μια πύλη για τα νησιά του αρχιπελάγους του Άμπαρατ, όπου ο χώρος είναι χρόνος (κάθε νησί αντιστοιχεί σε μια ώρα του εικοσιτετραώρου) και έχει κηρυχθεί πόλεμος ανάμεσα στα νησιά της Νύχτας και της Ημέρας.
Συνεργάτες και συνοδοιπόροι της Κάντι...
Με υπέροχες ζωγραφιές σχεδιασμένες από το συγγραφέα, αφεθείτε στη μαγεία ενός κλασικού Κλαιβ-μπαρκερικού αναγνώσματος για παιδιά (a.k.a με λίγα εντόσθια και λίγους δαίμονες, αλλά εντάξει, θα κοιμηθείτε το βράδυ!)
This is one of those books that I adored in a way that I can't really describe. I'm sorry, I just can't. It was amazing in ways that I can't tell you.If you like fantasy or science fiction or horror or anything along that particular slant, read. this. book.If you're going to BUY Abarat, be sure you pay a little extra and get the version with the full color illustrations throughout. It would NOT be the same without them.
I had decided, prior to my reading of even the first page, that I was going to give this book an entire star purely for the illustrations, which I briefly skimmed beforehand. As such, my score breaks down as follows: 4 stars for the wonderful story, writing, and characters.1 star for the gorgeous and enchanting artwork. Anyway...My very first Barker book! A marvelous novel, one that starts what is assuredly to be a fantastic series.I really liked this book. I almost find it hard to believe that
I had decided, prior to my reading of even the first page, that I was going to give this book an entire star purely for the illustrations, which I briefly skimmed beforehand.
4 stars for the wonderful story, writing, and characters.1 star for the gorgeous and enchanting artwork.
The artwork occasionally didn't help with this problem, as Barker's portrayal of the setup would differ from his description of it within the actual story.
It has a few problems, but Clive Barker's Abarat is still a wonderful book that just works.
I always tell my students that if Clive Barker weren't so talented, he would be eating people for a living. Though this is a young adult novel, it still has elements of the macabre. Occasionally Barker becomes enthralled by his own imagery, but overall, the plot moves quickly, and you really care about what happens to Candy and what will become of our world once the fate of the Abarat has been decided. I was eager to start book two and have not been disappointed with what I've read so far-about two-thirds.
OKAY.HOLY-OKAY.GAHHH I CAN'T NEVER MIND.I NEED DAYS OF MAGIC, NIGHTS OF WAR LIKE FIVE YEARS AGO.I will go purchase that RIGHT THE FLIP NOW. YOU CAN'T STOP MEEEE.
Ένα όμορφο παραμύθι του οποίου οι τόποι, τα πλάσματα... τα πάντα ειναι φτιαγμένα απο έναν υπερρεαλιστικό κόσμο που μόνο στα όνειρα γίνεται να υπάρξει. Αμα δεν διαβάσει κανείς το Άμπαρατ δεν γίνεται να καταλάβει. Η απόλυτη μαγεία.
I read this book some time ago, so my memory of it is fading, but the thing I remember the most about it is that it failed to ever develop a plot that drew me in and held me there. I love the illustrations, and some other details about Abarat, but the admittedly whimsical descriptions of this foreign land were not enough to fill 500 pages. I even read the second book but I was so unimpressed that I don't remember anything about it. Still, three stars for the awesome illustrations and imaginative characters.
Upon rereading this teenaged favorite, present me enjoyed this less. A lot of the mystery in this first book is revealed in the third, so knowing the secrets made this read less exciting. Remembering correctly, teenager-me loved guessing at who Candy would fall in love with, which has never been the point of this book, really, but that's where a lot of my past excitement came from. I have loved the sequel to this book more than this one in the past, so I'm interested to see if that is still so!
I’m told Candy is a strange heroine.
At one point, Candy actually expresses happiness at being in Abarat.
Happy is for endings and nowhere else!And, sadly, Abarat is a fairly action packed book.
What is the point of reading a book if the author is going to hold back the plot?
Better luck next time.I have no issue with authors writing series, but each book should be able to stand on its own.
But at the same time, if the publisher is going to print a version without the pictures, they better well make sure that it is worth reading in that manner.
Look, i gave Lord of the rings series 5stars ok? As a horror/fantasy book lover i barely give books 5 stars. But this book was so good i can’t even describe it. It felt like Clive Barker was on drugs while writing this book. I suggest it to everyone i like, and i’m definitely gonna continue reading the next two volumes.
“Abarat” is clearly a truly creative and exciting for fans of Clive Barker’s novels and exploring surreal fantasy worlds!Candy Quackenbush was just a normal girl who lived in a boring town called Chickentown, where everything revolves around the history of chickens.
I also loved the fact that Clive Barker manages to make this story have a perfect blend of “Harry Potter” (the magic elements) and “Alice in Wonderland” (main character travels to a strange land) as it made the story extremely creative to read.
Abarat by Clive Barker adds up many weaknesses of a bad written book and I will put them here in a few words.*Few things happen in so many pages.
If you ask me that's bad writing for books intended to kids, except if you are Pynchon or Joyce or some existentialist writer and you can fill your pages creatively.*The imagery of Clive Barker's work is fading in the Californian sun.
I will stop here cause Clive Barker is still my favourite storyteller and I hope that he will finish the Books Of The Art trilogySo here I am again, writing more things about what I disliked than what I liked, but I hope you get the picture.
Чел съм 4 тома от "Кървави книги" и новелата "Прикован към Ада", с които Клайв Баркър ме впечатли доста, но именно "Абарат" ме "отвя" и затвърди убеждението ми, че това е един брутално добър писател, чието въображение няма граници. "Детска" книжка ли, дрън-дрън, ха-ха, нека всички детски книжки са такива, тогава ще чета само детски книжки!!!
I have found this to be especially true in his Young Adult novel Abarat: The First Book Of Hours.
When I say the island represents the hour, I mean that on the Island of Yebba Dim Day, the first Island Candy lands on, it is always 8pm.Clive Barker is a master at making monsters that are not always evil, and pushing the boundaries of what is evil.
All and all Abarat: The First Book of Hours was an amazing introductory novel in what appears to be a dark and entertaining young adult series from Clive Barker.
Abarat was a five star book the first time I read it, easily.
It's a great thing to imagine, all of this.And the paintings bring it to life.It baffles me that there are editions of this book with  Clive Barker's beautiful illustrations adorning near every page, yet here we are.
It's such a waste, when a trade edition could meld the illustrations with the text..
yet since 2002 I've had a hell of a time finding any hardcover illustrated edition of this book.
Why waste it all and deny so many this experience?The book, without the paintings, is still all right.
It has survived many purges and a move or two (when most of my books from this book club did not) so that should tell you what you need to know, but here's a drabbley review anyway.I love the experience of Abarat.
I really liked seeing the whisking away process and that the main character has an active hand in it.
I hope my teen book club took my advice to look at the art!I love all the bits and pieces that Barker leaves for the reader to find and I am looking forward to the next books (which I never read due to the delay in their release).
Perhaps it's the--in many cases--absurd abundance of characters, creatures, environments, and plot-lines, but I've always found them hard to follow.
In the case of ABARAT, however, I was pleasantly surprised to find that Clive Barker had created a giant, diverse world with an array of colorful characters...and made it easy to follow.
Sure, there are one or two snags, but the entirety of it is so consuming and interesting that you ultimately don't care if there's a paragraph or two you don't understand and you just keep going.The characters are standard Barker-fare, with a haunted (yet by no means any less alluring) antagonist, a young girl with more to her than meets the eye and more to who she really is than she could ever have hoped for, and a side-cast that don't fall to the wayside but help to add to an already consuming story.
Therefore, I only had Abarat left.Although I was sceptical about it, I opened it and started reading.The second day in China and I had finished it.
I cried because it was over.Almost six years later, this book and its sequel still has a special place in my heart.
Nevertheless, it captured me from the first chapter (I remained sceptical during the prologue).
Her longings for another, more interesting place remains in my heart and mind, as I for these six years, always have tried to find the sea Izabella and a good painted-red boat to sail it.
In the boring town of Chickentown, USA, Candy Quackenbush is dealing with a personal struggle as to where her future may lead and with an uncanny encounter with a character called John Mischief, she finds herself in the The Sea Of Izabella.This book is pure magic and wonder.
In this volume there are several occasions where Barker has included illustrations and I found myself staring at them not wanting to move on because of how perfectly they fit in with the story.A work of pure fantasy and darkness, if you haven’t already and fancy a trip to Abarat through the Sea Of Izabella I would highly recommend it.
They straddle the line between “young adult novel” and “high fantasy.” It’s a hard line to span successfully, and although I don’t feel like Clive Barker did it as well Gaiman or Jones, those are truly powerhouses to go up against.The writing was pretty juvenile.
It consistently tore me out of the action because the timing just didn’t work for me.I’m not sure what to make of the weird abusive relationship Candy has with her father.
Now, this may be exactly what was supposed to happen, so that we know that Candy has found a better place in the Abarat, or why she will always fight against Carrion so that he doesn’t subjugate the islands the same way her dad dominated her.
Very dreamlike and surreal, reading this book is like riding shotgun during the road-trip through a child's night-time dream, instead of listening to the child the next morning trying to tell you about it.
Do you remember what your favorite food tasted like the first time you ate it?
I love traveling and seeing new places.
Journeying through this book taps into all those mechanisms of what it was like to see or do something for the very first time.
This book takes us back to the world being a new and overwhelming place.
Wow. This was not a good novel.Have you ever had an author that you loved so intensely, so completely, then, you read something and you felt that intensity just dissolve?
I read about a flying vibrator and knew that I no longer loved Palahniuk.It also happened with Tom Clancy (never a great writer, but a good storyteller and plotter) and Stephen R.
Nothing much happens in the novel, except to lurch the characters from one place to another so Barker can stop and show us his prodigious imagination.
In a fantastical world like Abarat, it's immeasurably cool to see a piece of art depicting, say, a Sea-Skipper, sort of an elegant cross between a human and a sea horse, or a crazy island shaped like a man's pointed head.The heroine, Candy Quakenbush, has an abusive father and an all-around dreary life in Chickentown, MN (guess what the industry is there?).
When she's ripped out of her environment and gets swept away on a sea to the magical islands of Abarat, the joy I felt was similar to the relief I felt when Hagrid showed up to take Harry Potter to his first year at Hogwarts.
I wanted to like this book.
The story revolves around Candy Quackenbush,an adolescent girl who leaves school one day in a huff at her teacher and shortly finds herself transported into the Abarat - another dimension where there are islands in a great sea and every island represents one hour of the day.
The imagery from Abarat is vivid, but also random.
It reads more like Barker had all these images in his head from various incomplete ideas and decided to just lump them all together.
I doubt I will move on to the other books in the series.
Clive Barker has an imagination unlike anything I've encountered, so if you're looking for a book that throws you head first into the world of your wildest dreams, this is the book you've been looking for.
This is my favorite book of the series because it introduces you to Abarat and its wonders.
Still, this is one of my favorite book series and I love all of the art work in these books.
I read this book when it came out and a couple of times after that, including each time a new book in the series is released.
