https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/363992.Madman_s_Drum
The first examples were produced by woodcut technique, which was re-popularized by German expressionists at those times.
American Lynd Ward, as his two masters in visual storytelling, Flemish Frans Masereel and German Otto Nückel, relies heavily on expressionism of black & white figures.
His style is less sharp than Nückel & Masereel, and his ability to give emotions in facial expressions is incredible.
Here we have an ambitious story of curse like the ones I read in several stories of classical writers .
Social criticism is not as strong as that in Masereel's work and tragedy is not a punch-in-the-face like the one I read in Nückel's work.
Sometimes a pictures is worth a thousand words.
Sometimes, on the other hand, a sentence or two is needed to explain a picture.
This is the case with Lynd Ward's Mad Man's Drum: A Novel in Woodcuts.
It tells the story of a slave trader who marries and lives a respectable life in what appears to be a New England town.
His child becomes a bookworm and marries in turn.
Whatever the machinations of the plot, Lynd Ward's woodcuts are phenomenal; and the woodblock prints are wonderfully designed.
Unfortunately, it is not always easy to tell a detailed story with them alone.
Some striking images, but after the rather straightforward beginning, it becomes nearly impossible to figure out what is going on, or what relation the new characters that appear have to the protagonist.
It is also hard to tell what precisely is going on in some of the images at certain points in the story.
I suppose it might make more sense after multiple very slow, very close readings, but it seems to be a bit too much work to put in for a story that does not seem particularly deep, due to the natural limitations of the medium.
A totally wordless graphic novel creates a powerfully macabre story. No color, using only simple lines these woodcut pictures tell an amazing story. Imagery is masterfully used to create strong emotions within the reader. Full understanding takes multiple readings to grasp the greed, deceit, deception and revenge. Powerful is the best word that can be used to describe this unique reading experience.Ages 12-100 yearsTheme comparison with Poe, Hawthorne and Stephen KingPower of symbolismJournaling on connectionsForeshadowing
A mysterious and macabre story described in woodcuts without narration. This is Lynd Wards' second wordless novel, following his debut Gods' Man. Here, Ward expands his storytelling ability, creating an epic family story of a bookish man who is the son of a slave trader. The author weaves a complex plot and with rich symbolism and detailed pictorial composition. Understanding the complexities of the story will take the reader much more than one sitting to fully comprehend.
this story line was more difficult for me to suss out than his other works, but the woodcuts were each and every one spectacular. it takes quite some time to "read" ward's books even without words as it is easy to become enraptured with the detail in his artwork.
Watch as one man slowly losses faith in religion, law, science, and love. Creepy and disheartening, a gothic masterpiece.
Ward’s ‘novels without words’ are masterpieces, and early precursors to today’s graphic novels. Gothic and dark, Mad Man’s Drum’s woodblock images are detailed and captivating. A confusing narrative showing how our worst decisions and impulses can curse generations.
✭✭✭½
Lynd Ward's Mad Man's Drum is a graphic novel in the truest sense of the word; told through the use of 128 woodcut prints, and using no written text, Ward tells a story of obsession and the tragedy that can be a result of succumbing to that obsession.Given that there is no text, the reader must rely on the imagery and symbolism that is presented in each woodcut; therefore, I believe that each reader may take something different from the story.
Beautiful images, so much detail. I keep thinking, "I can't believe these are woodcuts." The story was a bit hard to follow; I had to read up on the plot online afterwards, and then skim back through. The wordless graphic novel is a tricky medium, and when you're not careful the story gets turned around. Seeing as how this story spans several generations and involves many different characters this was especially true. If each character were more easily distinguishable from the others this would help some.
Somewhat more ambitious than his first book and not entirely successful, this symbolic novel tells the story of three generations, the father a slaver who makes a fortune but brings back a curse symbolized by the drum in the title, his son who becomes an intellectual, and his two granddaughters and their tragic loves, the first with a communist labor agitator who is executed, the second with a scoundrel.
I didn't think I'd read any more books from this author after the last one (God's Man.) This one was actually more intriguing, though.
Ward is a master with the graver and his story telling is spellbinding.
A master illustrator tells the story through 125 woodcut drawings. A truly incredible journey.
