https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/72996.The_Thurber_Carnival
“One has the disturbing feeling that the man contrived to be some place without actually having gone there.”I picked this text up because I played a teenaged James Thurber in an autobiographical play about his childhood years ago.
“The Thurber Carnival” was published in 1945 and is a compendium of James Thurber’s work from 9 previous collections.
You will recognize a couple of stories from that work as many are quite famous and well anthologized to this day.The last couple of sections of “The Thurber Carnival” were odd reads for me.
I don't know how many people of the current generation know James Thurber - maybe the literary group in America, but I don't think many outside of that continent are familiar with him now.
The sheer ridiculousness of the situations narrated and the author's laconic humour in recounting them carries the story forward, and we don't want it to stop.Looking at the stories, they are more weird than humorous.
Thurber's animal parables for modern times are chilling in their indictment of modern society, and some of them (one especially, "The Very Proper Gander") are extremely relevant even now.This review would be incomplete without a mention of the sketches and cartoons.
Read on."It was a stupid mistake to make," said the American woman I had met at my hotel in the English lake country, "but it was on the counter with the other Penguin books--the little sixpenny ones, you know, with the paper covers--and I supposed of course it was a detective story.
You suspect them the most, of course, but those are the ones that are never guilty--or shouldn't be, anyway." "I'm 'afraid," I began, "that I--" "But don't you see?" said the American lady.
"You know, the Third Murderer has puzzled 'Macbeth' scholars for three hundred years." "That's because they never thought of Macduff," said the American lady.
Dad was a great fan of James Thurber, having several of his books on the shelves as far back as memory serves and purchasing others as they came out. This was, if not the first, one of the first of the Thurber collections I ever read, Thurber being recommended not only by Dad's taste but by the occasional reading of some of his stories on WFMT radio's "Midnight Special".
I saw the Cuban flag flying over a national bank, I saw a gay old lady with a grey parasol walk right through the side of a truck, I saw a cat roll across a street in a small striped barrel, I saw bridges rise lazily into the air, like balloons.I suppose you have to have just the right proportion of sight to encounter such phenomena: I seem to remember that oculists have told me I have only two-fifths vision without what one of them referred to as ‘artificial compensation’ (glasses).
Although times have changed, and some parts of these stories are dated, many still seem relevant and most are very humorous. The added bonus of many of Thurber's cartoons was wonderful. I had many LOL moments. I was in the middle of another book, and thought I'd take a break and read a few of these stories. I ended up reading it straight through in a couple of days! Thanks to Jerome K. Jerome's book Three Men in a Boat:, I found out about some of his contemporary authors, and am eagerly exploring classic 20's (and later) era humor.
I think this was a best seller in the 40s and all of the classic Thurber is here, "Walter Mitty", "Catbird Seat", and the drawings.
Like all great writers Thurber creates a world of his own that is a privilege to visit.The only dated sections are those devoted to making fun of black dialect.
Now it feels mean spirited if not racist.I was encouraged to see Thurber join the Library of America a few years ago.
I worried that he might join some of those other period humorists like Josh Billings or Finley Peter Dunne who are just historical curiosities today.
With a combination of nostalgia and ennui, I reread The Thurber Carnival a few stories at a time as amusing bedtime reading.
The family tales (Grandpa fell off the bed!) are most amusing.
Also, I enjoyed the Columbus tales, being a fellow Ohio State graduate.
As a kid, I enjoyed his work, while not completely understanding it all (my brother and I also enjoyed other vintage amusements like The Marx Brothers and their Harpo connection to the Algonquin Round Table of authors).
Actor William Windom played a Thurber-eque writer with an animated pet dog.
I had mixed reactions to this book.
I really enjoyed some of the stories, I thought some were just ok, and some seemed very flat to me.
Among my favorites were: The Secret Life of James Thurber, The Macbeth Murder Mystery, If Grant Had been Drinking at Appomattox, and One is a Wanderer.
I thought that most of the stories from the collection "The Middle-aged Man on the Flying Trapeze" were excellent, with insight and depth that went beyond simple humor.
I definitely didn't appreciate the casual racism and misogyny that peppered some of the stories.
Overall though, I enjoyed the book and found myself chuckling fairly often.
What is interesting about my approach to this book is that I really had nothing interesting to say about James Thurber prior to reading it.
I find it very interesting that he is not a bigger contribution to a classical popular culture, but interestingly right when I finished the book I was in Orlando at Disney in line for Splash Mountain when I ran into a guy that had a James Thurber T-Shirt on.
The innocence and simplicity of his writing is a refreshing distraction in any reading regimen, and I truly hope that you decide to pick up this hilarious volume as soon as you can.
It contains many of his highly quirky cartoons and most of his major successes including:The secret life of Walter MittyThe Catbird SeatIf Grant had been Drinking at AppomatoxThe Two HamburgersAll right have it your war - You heard a seal barkThurber portrays the good old days when the mere possession of a university degree guaranteed one a comfortable middle class existence.
Thurber gently pokes fun at this peculiarly American style of lotus-eating that he nonetheless heartily endorsed.The Thurber way of life ended in the 1970s when the success of the Japanese and German economies meant that there would be less and less space in America for unambitious idlers who expected to live comfortably.
I once read a comment in which a man said he had no doubt Superman could fly or do all the other stuff, but 'Who ever heard of a mild-mannered reporter?" When I proposed the question to my mother she suggested 'James Thurber'?
I'd already read many of the Punch magazines from the (19)70s on, but Thurber's discussions led me to examine the nineteenth-century volumes.
If for nothing esle, I owe Thurber thanks for leading me to a source of enrichement for my life.

Ah, I LOVE this book.
Thurber's stories completely totally kill me - I've literally laughed out loud while reading.
"The Night the Bed Fell" is a classic, and I do love the stories about the day the damn broke, and the string of maids his family had.
Thurber's stories are just short little pieces about his life, but they are so funny.
And he illustrates them himeslf, badly, but they are somehow endearing (like Pierce Brosnan singing in "Mamma Mia"- so bad that it's almost good).
I've liked this book forever and have found it's humor and small size the perfect thing to read during the holidays.
Allie and I often lament that somewhere along the way we lost the no-holds-barred, gravity-defying imaginations we had as kids. James Thurber is one of those rare - and incredibly lucky - people who never lost his. "The Thurber Carnival" is simply sublime. With such ebullient gems as "The Secret Life of Walter Mitty", "The Unicorn in the Garden", "The Catbird Seat" and that little cartoon with the basset hound following an insect, you'd be a Scrooge indeed if this collection did not warm your heart and put a smile on your face.
A collection of some of my favorite James Thurber stories & fables. What Do You Mean It Was Brillig?, The Macbeth Murder Mystery, The Secret Life of Walter Mitty, The Catbird Seat, and my favorite - The Unicorn in the Garden. Add many of his drawings. Great collection.
Sedaris wishes he were this funny.
In the course of flipping through them I would've found and certainly enjoyed his childlike drawing style long before I came to appreciate itssometimes subtle and sophisticated humor.
In this respect it is interesting to see a man of almost 100 years ago complaining about the eminence of the collapse of civilization in many of the same terms one can find in 2015 or an 1815.Much of the last 50 or so pages of this book highlight Thurber the cartoonist modern critic might speak to his economy of line in his impressionistic representation of intent rather than literal photographic reproduction of figures and animals.
The kingdom of the partly blind is a little like Oz, a little like Wonderland..." (91)."He was chewing on a splinter of wood and watching the moon come up lazily out of the old cemetery in which nine of his daughters were lying, only two of whom were dead" (97)."Each move was as difficult as getting a combative drunken man out of the night club in which he fancies he has been insulted" (114)."It is neither just nor accurate to connect the word alas with pigeons.
Read so far:The Lady on 142--The Catbird Seat--4Memoirs of a Drudge--The Cane in the Corridor--The S
What fun this book was.
And I'm not just saying this because my last read was The House of Mirth.James Thurber had a very unique way of seeing things.
Because he was going blind, I can't help but wonder how much that affected how he "saw" things.
His very entertaining gift for storytelling never got tiresome for me.
Most of the stories were quite short.
And I do wonder how many were true, fiction or severely exaggerated, but no matter.
Some of my favorites were The Catbird Seat, The Admiral On the Wheel and of course The Secret Life of Walter Mitty.
This is a collection of Thurber's humorous writings and cartoons. I actually found this first edition on the free shelf at the library, unfortunately it was only worth about $8 online but I enjoyed reading his essays and cartoons. Some of course are dated but his view of life and humor still shines through. I am going to put this back on the free shelf and hope someone picks it up and discovers his writing.
I did not connect with the author's style, which I found insipid. With humor at its blandest, the book is also notable for a kind of casual racism and misogyny, which I take as being considered acceptable in its own time. The high points would be "The Secret Life of Walter Mitty", and the 'graphic novel' of "The War Between Men and Women".
Thurber is great at making hilarious stuff out of simple ideas, and that means of course that not everything is amazing because some of the ideas aren't great. That said, on a whole, his work is fun, light-hearted, and often insightful. This collection has much better ideas than the other I've reviewed, earning it some more star power.
I suppose Thurber is funny, somewhat. I like his cartoons best. Some pieces can be fairly amusing, others a bit of a slog for how short they are. A bit racist too the rare time anyone black shows up. I suppose I was hoping for a little more.
Hilarious
Read our conversation about the book at https://bookthreat.com/2017/08/09/tha...
I thought it was boring. I'm not a fan of short stories in general, and then this is older writing, too...
This seems to me to prove that the stories were written and did not, like the drawings, just suddenly materialize." The drawings do have a languidly "found" feeling to them.And, of course, the anthology contains Thurber's most famous short story, "The Secret Life of Walter Mitty" – which you need to read (or read again) even if only to discover (or remember) just how terrible a travesty (albeit a visually stunning one) the recent Ben Stiller film was.
"The Secret Life of Walter Mitty" is not a story of a man discovering himself, and the love of his life.
Simply put, some stories were obsolescent, and those stories that made fun of African-American or Southern accents weren't funny at all.
Then I stumbled across two of his short stories that made me realize why James Thurber was a literary genius.
To someone who thought that Thurber's genius was limited to comic pieces, they were eye-openers.
On the other hand, Thurber's poetic side is illustrated with One is a Wanderer: 'Not so soon with you would such things fade with the rest.'Kirk's reflection about himself being 'an analyzer ...
I'm trying to be happy." "We all want to be happy, sir," said George.
