https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/762064.Betrayal_in_Death
I have this book -actually this series (46 ebooks)- on my Kindle but I listened the audiobook version which normally I'm not a big audiobook fan.
:) And I'm going to listen the other books instead of reading because Susan Ericksen (Narrator) did an excellent job.
:)Long story short, this series are bloody fantastic but audiobooks are amazing too.
So if you have a second thought about this series and also about audiobooks too, I think you should give them a shot!
Trust me, once you start to read it ( or listen it), you'll be addicted this series.
Robb has great skill in being able to develop her characters by show, not tell, and they are all large as life and twice as much fun.
She is also very talented at drawing relationships and as usual our main characters bicker and fight, joke and relate and generally get on with their lives.
As usual there are laugh aloud moments, quite a lot of sex, a cheating cat and a candy thief.
Eve is at the top of her game and not taking nonsense from anyone - this includes the FBI, all available criminals, Peabody/McNab, Summerset and even Roarke himself!Great fun and easily five stars.
“Betrayal is common for men with no conscience.” - Toba BetaIn this series the book's theme is there in the title and you are able to connect to this in the first few chapters.In this case, it was a bit different as till the end of the book I could not understand the reason of the title being 'Betrayal in Death' but then near to the end it all just clicks.Generally there is a murder, investigation and search for the killer.
In this case the killer is known and it is a hunt for this known murderer.
"They stole my candy again. I taped it on the back of my AutoChef. Two bars of the real stuff.. They tagged it. I'm going to catch them sooner or later and peel the skin off their face. Slowly. That's right, the candy bar thief is still at large!! Who cares that there is a contract hit-man beating, raping, and killing people who are attached to Roarke when this candy thief is still at large? Priorities, people! I need to know whodunnit now!I know!! I'm not totally missing the point either!The g
Who cares that there is a contract hit-man beating, raping, and killing people who are attached to Roarke when this candy thief is still at large?
I'm not totally missing the point either!The good news is that Roarke and Eve get along much better in this book than in the last.
Which is a good idea since Roarke seems to be a better detective than all of her squad put together.
Better than my wedding night...The bad news is that there is trouble in the Peabody/McNab relationship.
Call them from work, like good husbands do.
Another excellent episode in J.D. Robb's "In Death" series.
Their relationship is growing even stronger as they work through issues together while Peabody and McNab are having a bumpy patch in their relationship.
An old friend of Roarke's from his early days in Ireland has dropped in and Eve's not sure if he's entirely trustworthy.
And a very nasty hired assassin is working on Eve's patch and bumping off employees of Roarke's.
As usual all told with a sprinkling of witty dialogues, quite a lot of sex and a plenty of action (just they way we fans of this series like it!)
It kind of felt like the murderer was not developed enough, and Roarke's childhood friend didn't quite come out real.
Agent Stowe was not just useless but counterproductive and she still got the glory.
Also, I kind of felt like the fight between McNab and Peabody was forced.
I don't know, who am I to question the Great Nora?Reread July 2018 — Still not my favorite in the series but I love it anyway.
A lot of writers would make a character like Eve have only men friends but Nora gives her female friends and then makes each of them interesting in their own right.
I jumped from book one to #12 as originally I couldn't borrow the earlier ones from my library and after reading book one I simply had to have more of Eve and Roarke.
I really enjoyed this one.
I love the police procedural angle that runs throughout these character driven stories and the romance totally hits the spot for me.
Also enjoyed my first introduction to Peabody and McNabb.
Now I am happily returning to book 2 (library came through for me).I highly recommend these to all romance fans that enjoy a little suspense or mystery thrown in as well.Lighthearted and highly entertaining reading.
It's Eve and Roarke. You cannot go too far wrong with these two.  “She turned toward Roarke's office, then stopped in the doorway. He was at his console; captain of his ship. He'd drawn his hair back so it lay on his neck in a short, gleaming black tail. His eyes were cool, cool blue. The colour they were when his mind was fully occupied. He'd taken off his dinner jacket, his shirt was loose at the collar, the sleeves rolled up. There was something... just something about that look that always a
It's Eve and Roarke.
just something about that look that always and forever grabbed her in the gut.
She could look at him for hours, and at the end of it, still marvel that he belonged to her."Someone wants to hurt you," she thought.
Every time I looked at you, or heard your voice, or so much as thought about you, the complication got bigger.""And now?""Now?
You are my life." She gave his hand one last squeeze, then released.
You know I love my badass jerky alphas.
Roarke is an alpha but he is not an asshole.
Funny how you can love a series but then need a break from it and then sadly forget about it for a little while. Good thing once you pick it back up, it doesn't take you long to forget why you loved it so much in the first place. This was another fabulous read and totally makes me want to binge read this series and try to get caught up, which with over 40 books now, I know won't happen anytime soon but it's nice to think about all the same.
3.5 ⭐
Good but Not the best in the series by far... The bad guys were a bit predictable and although I would.like to believe that my investigative skills are the ones that helped me predict them, I have to admit that they were just obvious! Still, I don't think I will ever not like a book in this series!;-)
A perfect balance to all things Roarke and Eve. I don’t have time to put together a picture filled review.
“Put your hands on me,” she demanded, then crushed her mouth to his.
But I couldn’t find you.” “I’m right here.” It ripped at him; he couldn’t begin to tell her what it did inside him every time she went back to the horrors of her childhood in dreams.
Just a minute.” One day, he thought, he might actually get used to the way the love for her, the need for her, could leap up and grab him by the throat.
4-4.5 stars - Romantic Suspense/Sci-Fi/Futuristic/Thriller
As I proceed through my Kindle re-read of my favorite series, I am once again struck by the growth of the characters.
After just reading Calculated...the latest release...and contrasting it with Betrayal...an early installment...it's a stark contrast in Eve and Roarke's marriage.
There was so much head butting in Betrayal, but yet, this was the book in which the Expert Consultant, Civilian was born so there had already been some growth.
I loved Eve's comforting and taking care of Roarke during this case.
Also, one of my favorite passages of the series occurs in this book: Roarke's one thing....Priceless!
This was a good one. We know the killer right from the start but we have to figure out who the mastermind is. After 12 books it still surprises me how good the author is in creating unique stories , every book is like a new experience. Solid read.
Bittersweet.....
After 12 books, I've run out of anything to say about this series. It keeps getting better and all the murder and mystery keeps my attention. We have a killer who is a virtuoso of murder. One who collects souveniers from his victims after the deed. Cruel and sadistic. If I had my way, I would prefer that he died a very violent death. Run over by ten dump trucks or more.
Another solid entry from J.D. Robb. Two things I didn't care for in this one:1) Predictable villain. I pinned the villain pretty quickly, usually I'm all over the place in Robb's books and she twists me every time.2) (view spoiler)[Eve is getting her man in each book, but she's doing it with more and more of Roarke's help. Like she wouldn't be winning these battles without Roarke's help. I wish that weren't the case. (hide spoiler)]I think the relationship between Eve and Roarke, as well as Eve's own self-struggles, are progressing and developing nicely. I'll definitely get the next!
Love this book - really liked meeting Roarke's old pal Mick and learning still a little more about Roarke's background.This book has everything I like - a repulsive serial killer, lots of damage to stuff, and just enough angst to make a good storyline.Oh and how could I forget the McNab and Peabody drama!2 thumbs up and 5 stars.
Reread Jan. 2017 - Loved it just as much as the first time...and second time! I never tire of these characters - the relationship development is always outstanding and the case intriguing. I can't ask for anything more. The entire series is a Must Read.
The ending. Oh, man, just perfect! 😍
By the time he'd strangled her, he was singing."So begins the 12th book in the In Death series set in late Spring the year 2059.Roarke is busily hosting the grand event of the season.
So how does a hotel maid rate the attentions of an international assassin?More bodies fall and Eve must tie them together while trying to find Yost, stave off a pair of weaselly FBI agents who attempt to horn in on her investigation and keep Roarke sane as it is obvious he is somehow connected to the deaths.Once again Robb changes things up a bit.
He is attacking people who work for Roarke and has been having his merry way with them.
Usually, it’s Eve who feels the weight of the grief and horror of her job, but in this book Roarke shows another side of him that I wasn’t expecting.
Robb continues to enhance her characters in a way that makes me love them more.
She is able to portray both the light and dark times of their lives in a way that you feel like you can relate to them.A couple of twists and turns are evident in this book, making this one an easy one to devour.
Obviously, there's a reason and finding out what that reason is, is the core of the story here!The characters continue to amuse and entertain me!
I would love to meet them in person!!!A wonderful, wonderful add to the series!
I always tag these books as contemporary even if they're set in near future.
I think I'm doing so because I have feel that, even with these clever futuristic things inserted in the story, the action is happening now!
Therefore, I applaud the author for being so smart to make a future like present time - it's an art IMHO!
I do love the baddest of the bad and Sylvester Yost is one of the nastiest adversaries Eve has to deal with in the series. One memorable scene I always enjoy reading is the scene with Sumerset haggling over the cost of grapes with the Asian grocer. Entertaining read.
I loved this one if, for no other reason, the way we got to see some of Roarke's past.
Loved this 12th book in J.D. Robb's In Death series!!!
The investigation is further compounded when the FBI attempts to take over and the true motive for the crimes is revealed.Even though the identity of the killer is revealed early on, this is still one of the most exciting and action packed books in the series mainly due to the exceedingly dark and gritty depiction of the murders and the fact that the villain is truly insidious and malevolent.
The dynamic between the two not only provides some intriguing insight into the enigmatic billionaire, but also exposes a potential conflict of interest with Eve. Peabody and McNab's romance also hits a snag although this one has been a long time coming.
The plot I would give 4 stars simply because it wa a little predictable, but everything else in the series is a solid 5 stars. Eve and her relationships with Roarke, Peabody, Mavis and even Somerset continue to grow and I love it. The audio of this series is fantastic
