https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/34377087-mrs-caliban
While Dorothy teaches him about the world, she winds up learning a lot of things herself...I first learned of Mrs. Caliban on Book Riot, I think.
A woman falling in love with a frogman could easily be played for laughs or venture into monster porn territory but their relationship is very well done.Dorthy is trapped in a loveless marriage, alone and childless, while her husband Fred philanders around.
Seriously, how had I never heard of this book until recently?Mrs. Caliban is an exploration of love and marriage, shown through Dorothy's eyes as she explains the ways of the world to Larry, telling him about life, the universe, and everything.
"The water ran over the sand, one wave covering another like the knitting of threads, like the begetting of revenges, betrayals, memories, regrets." Oh, wow. This is not your average human/monster romance. I totally understand why this landed on the BBMC’s “top 20 American novels of the post-World War II period.”From the book blurb, this seems straight forward enough: giant, frog-like male humanoid wanders into kitchen of neglected housewife. Bonking commences.And while, yes, sure, that does ac
Subtext.You know how in high school your teachers forced you to pour over Catcher in the Rye, and examine every action of Holden Caulfield, and then asked you to explain, in detail, how he was an ingeniously written antihero that shone a light on some of our more problematic beliefs and behaviors, and all the while you were just sat there in front of an empty essay, thinking to yourself that he was just an obnoxious teenage boy and all he shone a light on was how toxic masculinity can be?This is the book they should have had you analyze instead.It’s one of the best tongue-in-cheek social satires that I’ve ever read.
It asks the reader to examine what it means to be human.Larry, the frog-man love interest, looks like a monster to most.
So, continuing in the theme of stories about women who take unusual lovers, I read Mrs. Caliban, which tells the tale of a woman who...
Reading a story that he read (and loved) makes me feel like I'm in the right place.
OF COURSE John Updike liked this book.
When Larry, the frog-man who escaped from the laboratory where he was being tortured, appears one day in her kitchen, she finds almost instant solace.
I fully believe I'll re-read this, and when I do, this story will have something new to reveal.But who knew, about frogs?
UPDATE: if you want to see a good unofficial movie adaptation of this novel, see Shape of Water.Hmm...
Well this was a Goodreads discovery that I'm mostly glad I picked up.
The writing was great.
I highlighted many brilliant passages as a testament to this.
Plot-wise, I'm always a fan when weird mixes with domestic reality, and we certainly have that.
I don't know that it will leave any lasting impression on me though.
A few segments were even great.
Overall, I'm certainly glad this out-of-print novel is back in print - just don't feel a burning need to read it right away.
If you like avocados you will like this book.
(Who can blame him, honestly?) After escaping from a duo of sadistic scientists who captured him, he shows up at the door of a lonely housewife named Dorothy and reinvigorates her mundane life.This being a slim novella, there's very little room for setup or explanation.
In fact, the casual and matter-of-fact way that the relationship between Larry and Dorothy plays out is part of its charm.
She accepts him into her life immediately, allowing him to fill the void left by her unhappy marriage and the recent death of her child.Is Larry real, or is he merely Dorothy's fantasy—the antithesis of her husband and her boring existence?
Did I wish I had watched the Hallmark movie instead of reading about a frogman creature learning about human experience and a housewife telling her story of alienation and loss and loneliness?Heck, no.Mrs. Caliban was first published in 1982, which explains the use of the phrase "pontificating" because I remember people did that back then, and author Rachel Ingalls had a flash of fame before people forgot her novel.
In his 1986 review of this novel in the New York Times , Michael Dorris called it "a tight, intriguing portrait of a woman's escape from unacceptable reality." Maybe. But it doesn't fit into any easy box for me. It's uncharacterizeable, a perfect, unrepeatable literary expression of love and sacrifice. This was my fourth read or so.
Although this is not stressed during the narrative, it opens the book up to some interesting Freudian interpretations.A long way from home, trapped in a confusing and hostile environment (it is not safe for him to walk the streets at night, even with the wigs and cosmetic masks Dorothy supplies), Larry's situation mirrors Dorothy’s sense of alienation.
Beginning to kick against their domestic confinement, Dorothy and Larry begin roaming farther afield, placing themselves in potentially harmful situations.Mrs Caliban still feels fresh more than three decades on, and could well be due a revival.
I read it at the yurt, under four hundred pounds of blankets, and also in some very unexpected reading positions. I laughed, until the end. And when it was done, I turned the book over and over again in my hands, looking to see if maybe there was more of it hidden somewhere that I could keep reading.
Being a highly lucid, revealing, and still-timely dissection of modern American society by way of unorthodox romance, this could be likened to Rosalyn Drexler's possibly even weirder The Cosmopolitan Girl. For good measure, I'm also going to shelve this with Marian Engel's Bear. But Ingall's deadly satire and impeccably pared-down narrative is all her own here.
But Rachel Ingalls surely does no damage to the form here with Mrs. Caliban.In Mrs. Caliban, Dorothy’s dead marriage to Fred looks like a lot of fictional dead marriages: Fred’s a philanderer, Dorothy forgives his past and suspects he’s still up to his bad behavior (late meetings, dubious excuses for missing dinner, etc.).
If the whole book was turned up to 11 on its sci-fi premise, the impact would be lost, it would feel overwrought and unearned.Maybe Larry doesn’t really exist and this is all a way for Dorothy to see her way out of a reality that’s unlivable.
Dorothy is a repressed housewife who has given up on love when "Larry" a six foot inch frog creature walks in.
In a very matter of fact way Larry and Dorothy begin an affair and he lives in a seldom used room of the kitchen and comes out when Dorothy's husband Fred leaves for work.
This somewhat simple story is meant to illustrate the meaningless existence Dorothy had been living in a loveless marriage and how through Larry she rediscovers herself.
This book was written in the 80's so while some things feel dated the examination of a failing marriage is timeless.
A quirky tale of middle aged angst in which a woman finds a 6’7” frog in her home. She hides him, and eventually comes to love him. This is about love, marriage, getting older, disappointment, amorous adventure, isolation. A nice small tale.
A house wife with a dead son soon learns the truth about her life when she meets a green frog-like man.This is all you need to know. Every woman, every girl should read this book. A cautionary tale on what a woman can win and ultimately lose. All women.Masterpiece. A frigging masterpiece.
One of the strangest books I've ever had to read for class
Dorothy + Larry + Avocados = LoveWhat a weird little tale. Dorothy is depressed and lonely in a loveless marriage, and along comes an amphibious sea creature to save her day. The first half of the book buzzed along, but the latter half was too muddled. Still, this was a very memorable read.
Like most people reading this in 2018, I was drawn to it by comparisons to the hit film 'The Shape of Water', since both feature romances between somewhat dowdy women and amphibious man-beasts...
But really - this is sui generis, and I can't say I've ever read anything quite like it.
One of the most fascinating aspects of the book for a contemporary reader is the world view presented from a mere 35 years ago - which in its mores, concerns and just day-to-day aspects, seems as foreign as the 18th century.
It's a very short, quick read - and I heartily recommend it for the more adventurous reader...
Presumably a classic of feminist literature/sociopolitical satire in its time, it still reads quite fresh three plus decades later and while it can be read as either of those things, it also a basic boy meets girl story.
It's just that the girl in question is a lonely woman trapped in a loveless marriage and a boy is a sea monster on a lam.
The best part is the absolutely matter of fact delivery of a surreal scenario and, of course, Larry, is quite a memorable character in his sea monster out of water approach to the world around him and human relationships.
Rating: 3.5* of five (rounded up)Review goes live September 16, 2016
Sometime after its publication David Lynch's first wife Peggy recommended this novella as a possible film subject. As much as he identified with the book ("It's about grieving") he feared that physically portraying the romance between the woman and the amphibian might provoke mood-killing audience laughter: "after all," he said, "Larry would have to be green."
Best to go into this one blind.
A group of Booktopians were eating dinner with Will Shwalbe so of course we talked about what were reading. Mrs. Caliban was his current read and he was enjoying it. Described as a perfect novel, this is the story of Dorothy, who seemingly seems happy, but in reality is stuck. Stuck in her marriage, stuck in her grief over the loss of her son, stuck at home, missing a career. She befriends a lizard-like creature who moves into her spare bedroom and changes her life. I liked it a lot and recommend it highly.
She believed it was just her own thoughts forcing themselves into low-pitched sounds and their insistent rhythm.”In reading, I was reminded of those old black and white movies, you know the ones- King Kong with a beauty in his gigantic hairy hand, the woman passed out in the arms of The Creature from the Black Lagoon… the eroticism ever present when beautiful women are captured by the fierce terrible creatures (animal and monstrous) that have taken a fancy to them.
So what if passion comes in the taste of a strange amphibian like being… what does it matter where tenderness comes from to a lonely woman starving for life?
Genre: Relationships/B-Movie Sci-fi/Romance/TragedyDorothy Caliban is making salad when a frogman walks into her kitchen.
The childless wife of a cheating husband, Dorothy finds solace in the frogman.
But when the frogman begins killing people to defend himself, and as Fred Caliban’s affair becomes more heated we begin to wonder who the real monster is.
Yes, you could definitely just sit down and read the whole thing from start to finish.
You’ll want to.How was it: Sad but interesting.
Best Character: DorothyEnding: It was sad, it sort of took the easy way out, but it still worked.
Funny: Sometimes.Heartbreaking: No, but distinctly sad.
Larry helps out around the house.
Dorothy's other relationships take a back seat to this strange and wonderful new one, and we find ourselves rooting for her because frankly, we're not too crazy about Dorothy's husband, Fred, or her best friend, Estelle.It would be easy to dismiss Mrs. Caliban as quirky and clever.
Woman spurned by husband finds love with monster; 110-pages; easy to read but filled with cultural signifiers, even 35 years after its original publication.
The premise of this book sounds bizarre - a lonely, grieving housewife encounters a frogman-like creature and they become lovers. Real or imagined? Hard to say, but death follows her everywhere and it may just be a means to cope. The descriptions in this novella are often unexpected and fresh, and Ingalls has quite a way with dialogue. Sharp one-liners exists alongside beautifully-drawn details. An interesting story about grief and loneliness.
Fish fucking is in, y'all! This little book tells the story of a bored housewife falling in with an escaped frogman. The frogman whose story of scientific experimentation and escape rings a lot of Del Toro's Shape of Water lives in her guest room as her husband lives idly by otherwise occupied. What sounds like a strange premise works well to build a beautiful story of stifling domesticity. A quick and fast moving read, I had no idea where this book was headed and left reeling by the sort of surprise ending.
I have never read something so meticulously bantering and frivolous even while sucking you into its fields of absolute gravity and cosmic melancholia, all emanating from the kitchen sink.
3.5🌟🌟🌟.💫I feel as if I read it- and whilst I liked it I can’t really say I enjoyed it 🤔.
It’s a quirky little tale that’s definitely worth a read for me in the aftermath of “The Shape of Water” especially because it predates, but also because this author’s style is definitely noteworthy.
There’s a lot of raw truth in this very straightforward style that reveals the essence of its time.
I think that’s why it can be hard to enjoy at firsthand, but I think if you were to read it again it would be a bit more clear cut.
