https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/42695.The_Angry_Hills
Si no me equívoco, ésta es la segunda novela del autor y se nota. La historia en sí es buena pero le falta chispa; algo.
I've been a fan of Leon Uris for quite a long time, but only for two of his books: Exodus and Mila 18.
That part of WWII has always been somewhat opaque to me, mostly due to the fact that I haven't sought out any books specifically on the subject, as well as the confusing tides that played through Greece during those years: nationalists, the communists playing both sides, the collaborators, the Italians, the Germans, the British, etc.I found The Angry Hills somewhat disappointing.
It almost felt like a different writer in comparison to the voice in Mila 18 and Exodus.
If you're a Uris fan, you might want to read this one.
Angry hills, Leon Uris, c1955عنوان: «تپه های خشمگین»؛ اثر: ائون یوریس؛ ترجمه: همایون بدیع؛ مشخصات نشر: تهران، سازمان کتابهای جیبی، 1343، در 244 ص، اندازه 11 در 16 س.م.، موضوع: داستانهای نویسندگان آمریکایی قرن 20 م
When one of Ellie’s uncle dies and leaves her a sizeable financial bequeath, they thought their prayers had been answered.
Ellie died unexpectantly, leaving Mike a widower with two small children.
These seventeen names are well connected British agents in the Nazi/Greek transitional government.The reader is given a front row seat at the collapse of the British Expeditionary Force as the German and Italian divisions sweep in from the north.
Witness the charity, bravery, and self-sacrifice of Greek patriots as they risk everything for the asking.Like other best-selling novels by this author, the reader is blessed with heart-wrenching stories that never made the headlines and are now all but forgotten, except for the few survivors and their decedents.
childrens games...most of these war books..is bs...we need love not war.
This a fast read. A good swashbuckling story of an American writer outwitting the Gestapo after the invasion of Greece by Germany during the Second World War. The characters are nothing deep. The good looking ex-football player coming to Greece to retrieve an inheritance that was left to his wife, who died tragically in a car accident. The usual brutal German Gestapo chief working with collaborators and against the Greek underground. Soon there is a beautiful Greek women in the picture, and well....you'll find out once you have read it.
Not the best from UrisI usually love Leon Uris. But not this time. I never cared deeply for any of the characters and at times the dialogue seemed unnatural. I was hoping to learn more about the German occupation of Greece. I was disappointed. The ending was predictable. It was one if his earlier books and I know he gets much better - just four years later with Exodus.
Fooled meThe first chapter of this book sucked me in. I thought, "now this guy can write!" . Every chapter after that became increasingly boring and shallow. The characters have no depth. The supposed suspense just isn't there. I wanted to finish the book because Mr Uris is so famous and someone thought it was good enough to make a movie, but I just couldn't do it.
WWII tale about Greece and the German occupation. Hero has a list of anti German collaborators that he has to get to the British. Leon Uris is one of my favorite authors gave this one 4 Stars my only complaint is he tried to add a little romance that just didn’t fit the story
A great thriller from Uris...and short unlike so many of his books. A tense, surprising ending capped it all off. Excellent!
Read solely to complete a challenge.Since I am not a fan of International intrigue or espionage this book was not my forte. Book read....Book dismissed!
Me gustó mucho entretiene y hay mucha acción. Sirve para descansar un poquito de los libros muy áridos.
Not my favorite of his books (Mila 18 holds that spot). I could tell is was one of his earlier works--the use of language was straight out of the '50s.
I think Leon Uris is famous author, it is needless to say that this book also is really an attractive one. Therefore, i love to read it.
WWII spy novel set in Greece. American novelist Is given list of undercover Greeks that he needs to get to British authorities.
and in the end, it's a good adventure story if nothing else with some memorable characters (my favorite of which, without question, was Barba-Leonidas).Angry Hills, while retaining its identity as a historical fiction espionage book, seems to drift into the realm of 1950s-era WWII films which depicted the war from a very specific perspective - to be honest, looking at the book cover, I thought it was going to be akin to something like The Guns of Navarone.
I believe this is Uris' second novel, and while it evokes a depth and nuance of a burgeoning author of historical epics, it also hints at something that's rushed, and perhaps could've used a more firm editorial hand.“The Angry Hills” refers to World War II Greek resistance against German infiltration.
While Germany invaded Athens and started to clamp down upon, and imprint it’s mark on Greecian government, resistance remained strong and unmoved within the hilly and remote countryside.
I’m traveling to Greece for the first time this summer, and I found this book to be a terrific primer on ‘the soul of Greece’.
ExcellentUris has the ability to show the reader the inside of things. Great World War Two story that captures the struggle of a nation.
Feehan, a biography of the founder of The Mercier Press, an important Irish publishing house.How We Are Hungry, a collection of Essays by Dave EggersA reprint of Jane Harrison's Prologemena to the study of Greek Religion (now I can finally return my library copy, after 14 years of renewing it!)Leon Uris's The Angry Hills (wartime/love novel)Two by Lawrence Durrell: The Dark Labyrinth and MonsieurGeorge Long's translation of Meditations, by Marcus Aurelius (one of my favorite Roman emperors)Last week, at home, I purchased (new) The Making of a Sonnet, by Edward Hirsch and the lovely Irish poet Eavan BolandandMichael Chabon's Maps and Legends (worth it for the die-cut cover alone!)My reading is cut out for me until the end of the summer, along with what (name redacted from another site) recommended.I know libraries are for such expenses, but there's something about being able to dog-ear; mark-up; sniff (love the scent of new and old books alike); sleep with (almost as good as sharing a bed with a (certain type of) lover, not quite though).I didn't find what I was look for, but it turns out I found just what I needed.
This book was well written, keeping my attention throughout. I enjoy historical fiction books where I'm able to learn so much of what happened overall during that time period and location. Was not aware of the issues with Greece during World War II.
The plot was interesting but quite often the writer gets his characters into really deep trouble at the end of a chapter, with very little explanation as to how they get out of in the next chapter. It's all a little contrived. I don't think this author would get away with his type of story telling the way publishers pick their books these days.
FictionDB DESCRIPTION"A writer moves to Greece just as the Nazis invade, and he soon becomes a pawn in a dangerous game of espionageAfter the death of his wife, Mike Morrison arrives in Greece simply to receive an inheritance and come to grips with his grief.
But it’s a bad time to nurse his sorrow—it’s the beginning of World War II, and the German army storms the country before Morrison can leave.
At the mercy of strangers, Morrison has to learn who to trust—and who to love.Leon Uris’s fast-paced second novel draws from the diaries of an uncle who served in Greece during World War II.
Fun with UrisI enjoyed Exodus, QB VII, The Haj and even Topaz more but this was an entertaining short romp with a great author.
While conducting business in Greece during WWII, American writer Mike Morrison is trapped by the German advance.
When he comes into possession of a secret list of Greek patriots who are pretending to be collaborators, he must go on the run to escape the enemy forces that have been assigned to retrieve the information.
This is the only book by Leon Uris that I have read.
I was under the impression that he was a writer who researched his subjects meticulously.
It reads like a treatment for a typical 50s WWII flick.
This is a story of an American writer turned reluctant spy during Germany's invasion of Greece during WWII.
It is also the first book by Leon Uris that I've read.The writing was well done - well paced, good character development (mostly) and tension throughout.
:)One thing that annoyed me - a typical pet peeve - is that there is a love story where by the 5th day after meeting, they use pet names (honey, darling) and by the 9th, they've professed their love.
Maybe I'm just not a believer in love at first sight....I would rate this a 3.5 due to the good storytelling and the tension throughout.
Sorry Leon, not my favorite of your books.
The story follows Mike Morrison who is an American who goes to Greece on a simple errand.
And then a lot of bad things happen to him.
And a nice Greek peasant girl comes to his rescue.
But just when Mike realizes that he has no future with the Greek peasant girl, another lovely woman comes into the picture.There was just a lot that didn't seem plausible.
The ending was good, but it had been such a slog that the excitement might just have been because the book finally ended.
Reading this at the same time as Operation Mincemeat was unintentional fun. Uris doesn't have anything deep or life-changing to say here, it's just an enjoyable novel about the escape of an American with valuable intelligence information from enemy-held territory.It was surprising how similar in tone this and Mincemeat were. As the author of the latter book notes, sometimes the truth can be as fantastic and thrilling as a fiction such as Angry Hills. As usual, Uris's characters are central to the story, falling into very formulaic roles and familiar tropes. A good beach/mindless read.
This is an interesting spy story that takes place in Greece at the beginning of WWII. I enjoyed it because I have been to Greece and many of the places made more sense because of my travels. The name of the hotel I stayed in was used in the novel! Crazy!It is definitely a reading-for-pleasure type of book. There is not a lot of literary substance, but once in a while it is nice to read just for plot!
As noted by another commenter, Uris based this book in part on a diary kept by an uncle. It deals with a seldom covered period of Greek history, the period of invasion by the Nazis and looks realistically at the perils of occupation by a totalitarian force.Note, the protaganist is an American author who, among other works, authored Home is the Hunter. The same title is used by Helen MacInnes for her play about Odysseus and for the protaganist's play in North from Rome (1958).
