https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/160149.The_Call_of_Cthulhu_and_Other_Weird_Stories
This, the first of three volumes of Lovecraft tales edited by S.T. Joshi, is--as are the other two--chronological, featuring a selection of tales from the earliest to the very last.
(An odd organizational principle for a complete tales, but I suppose Joshi did this so most of the best tales wouldn't be found in the last two volumes.) Every Lovecraft fan should purchase all three volumes, but—if you must confine yourself to one only—I would suggest this one as the best to buy, since it contains many of the best and most characteristic tales.
He will write what is basically a wordy version of “And it was so horrible and I could never describe it without going crazy/dead and I really don’t want to bring those memories back in my mind so yeah just trust me it was horrible.”-	When he does describe actual horror, it’s not very horrific.
They don’t always add to one’s understanding of the story (Cool Air has a note about a fold-out couch Lovecraft kept in his study).
It's not like...wait.
Wait.
Oh, god.
Oh, dear god, no.
No. NOOAAAAUUUUGGGGGHHHHHH--"I live in a somewhat-old farmhouse in rural Wisconsin, and it's a great place to read Lovecraft now that we've taken care of the bat problem.
A few nights ago, while trying to fall asleep, my mind wandered a bit to the story "The Rats in the Walls," specifically the part where they open the vault and discover the tunnel--dug from beneath--and I felt the same chill I got when I first read it.And then I heard the scratching, coming from the walls.
I picked up the three Penguin editions of his work that (I believe) gather almost all the stories he published in his lifetime, and have not been disappointed.
The was a grown man who couldn't keep a job and lived with his mom, and these stories still drip like an oil over the soul.
Not necessarily true in the people-are-really-taken-over-by-evil-mermen way, or the ghost-dog-actually-chasing-you-beneath-the-desert-tombs way, but true in that Lovecraft's stories essentially discuss humanity the way I dissected cats in twelfth grade science -- from a distance, with vague moral discomfort made worse when lain parallel with a guilty need to poke around in foreign guts.
This is for those of us who love ideas like books with a mind of their own, geographies that will dive a man mad, strange not-quite-humanoid creatures, secret forgotten cults worshiping strange and ancient gods.Also, given his incredible influence over horror, weird, fantasy, science-fiction and pop culture (see “In The Mountains of Madness” https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...), this little collection is a must-read if only because it is so seminal.
Have a cocktail and read it aloud to yourself (or to a willing friend), as theatrically as you can."The Statement of Randolph Carter" remains a weird stand out for me, as does the title story (obviously), but I also really love "The Whisperer in Darkness" (adapted into a fantastic movie by the H.P. Lovecraft Historical Society in 2011) and "The Shadow Over Innsmouth".
As a storytelling technique this might work once, but it is a common feature in many of the stories in this collection and I grew very, very tired of the paucity of description.I don't need to see a knife slowly cutting through someone's carotid artery in all its bloody detail, but for goodness sake, at least show me what sort of knife it is, and the approximate appearance of the person it is going to be used on.In saying all of that I did enjoy visiting some of the locations I've seen in Lovecraft-based games, such as Arkham and the Miskatonic university.
And I'd be very interested to know what it was that Mr Lovecraft was in the habit of smoking while writing these stories. Very, very interested.Lovecraft while writing this book - Yo, I got the best stuff in town! *Fistbump*Me while reading this book - Should have never dropped this much acid at one go. Never..Cthulhu in the meanwhile - Ph'nglui mglw'nafh Cthulhu R'lyeh wgah'nagl fhtagn....Damn it bro, this stuff is strong; I dont even what I am talkin' about
"Even death may die.."  American author H.P Lovecraft is such a prominent and prolific horror writer that a subgenre of horror was even named after him. Lovecraftian horror involves "the cosmic horror of the unknown and the unknowable more than gore or other elements of shock". With this mind, I was quite excited to read this anthology which collected his finest eighteen short stories throughout the years. This paperback edition I own even includes a great introductory essay to the life and ti
Frankly, I think The Call of Cthulu and Other Weird Stories is a fascinating though difficult read.I have my reservations both in reviewing and recommending this anthology.
After all, I think this volume doesn't even cover the wide expanse of the Lovecraft universe, particularly that of the Cthulu mythos which is a rather influential piece of fiction and a tirelessly imaginative lore that has enchanted other writers across generations to contribute their own works to this perplexing creature of the most visceral and unknowable of horrors ever realized in fiction.
The very best of the stories included in this anthology are like itches you can only keep scratching if the relief you garner from it also means that you have to bleed.RECOMMENDED: 8/10DO READ MY REVIEWS AT:

People read that he influenced the modern greats, everyone from authors like Stephen King and Clive Barker, to movie makers like John Carpenter and Wes Craven, and then dive into his books expecting the same fare.
His mind-bending, first person surrealistic approach to a creeping, nameless horror stunned and fascinated huge segments of early century America.
The America that read, that is, which wasn't nearly what it is today.
They broke conventions and rearranged the way a future breed of horror authors would look at the world.
Even today, I find them stunningly original, and well worth the read.
Joshi does an exceptional job selecting stories that create a coherent narrative through Lovecraft's early work, developing themes, and final strong stories; his annotations are interesting and useful both to the casual and studious reader.
Joshi's additions are skillful: each story is given an introduction in the notes, mentioning its place in Lovecraft's career, relevant information, and present themes; the annotations (through numbered footnotes) are removed to the end of the text, maintaining the coherency of the printed stories and giving the reader the option of ignoring them altogether.
And if there is a God, and if He is merciful, he will allow me the privilege of perishing before I wake so that I may not see those horrors in the cold, unflinching light of day....So, yeah, I enjoy reading Lovecraft.Actually, what I realized as I read through these, is that I think I love the idea of Lovecraft more than his actual writings.Don't get me wrong, the man was a genius.
All I could think was this: when Lovecraft was writing, in the 20s and 30s, he must have scared eight kinds of hell out of his readers.
The Call of Cthulhu This novella is a work of sinister genius a writing prose so well done. These works of Lovecraft form a Genisis of Horror writing and supernatural which have inspired many writers Stephen King one of many. "Octopus, a dragon, and a human caricature, I shall not be unfaithful to the spirit of the thing. A pulpy, tentacled head surmounted a grotesque and scaly body with rudimentary wings;""There were legends of a hidden lake unglimpsed by mortal sight, in which dwelt a huge, fo
The Call of Cthulhu This novella is a work of sinister genius a writing prose so well done.
These works of Lovecraft form a Genisis of Horror writing and supernatural which have inspired many writers Stephen King one of many.
They said it had been there before d'Iberville, before La Salle, before the Indians, and before even the wholesome beasts and birds of the woods.
But it made men dream, and so they knew enough to keep away.""Animal fury and orgiastic license here whipped themselves to daemoniac heights by howls and squawking ecstacies that tore and reverberated through those nighted woods like pestilential tempests from the gulfs of hell."
Should I be worried that I don't find it arcane at all?What Lovecraft does so brilliantly is to attempt to describe a truly alien horror - not like Star Trek aliens who are only men with knobby foreheads, but forces which do not reference the human at all.
Hieroglyphics had covered the walls and pillars, and from some undetermined point below had come a voice that was not a voice; a chaotic sensation which only fancy could transmute into sound, but which he attempted to render by the almost unpronounceable jumble of letters, “Cthulhu fhtagn”.As you can probably tell, "The Call of Cthulhu" is one of my favourite stories in this collection.
I watch American Horror Story religiously, I live by the code of The Slayers that Joss Whedon laid out for us in Buffy the Vampire Slayer, I research serial killers and studies of their psychological states and look forward to the month of October all year round.
I just don’t feel like a story actually happened.
I feel like a tentacle face is only scary with the story surrounding him.
WrensReads | Goodreads | Twitter | Instagram---October reads of horror!
HP Lovecraft's short stories show a masterful skill in setting mood with his dark prose. Unexpectedly, however, Call of C ended up being 'meh' compared to his other stories.
I'm never going to Antarctica. Ever.
I think reading so much Lovecraft in quick succession reveals how repetitive and formulaic many of his stories are.The standard Lovecraft tale goes like this: "Have you heard about that crazy shit that happened in [New England town]?
When I went there, at first I didn't think there was any crazy shit going on.
And then I heard from this guy everyone thinks is crazy that crazy shit was going on.
But then I sort of kind of saw the eldritch/noisome/Cyclopean horror for myself, and although it was super-crazy, I can't describe it in too much detail because the very sight of it drove me insane.
I just really didn't love this. Honestly, I was a bit bored. I am not sure if it was the text of the stories, or if perhaps the narration just made me want to tune it out. I had planned to write a more useful review, but honestly can't find the energy to devote more time to it.
Along with the very cool artwork and attractive look and feel of the book, the editor (S.T. Joshi) is extremely knowledgeable about Lovecraft and thorough in his introduction and story notes.
So, I really like this idea and Lovecraft’s other thoughts on fiction (as discussed by Joshi) but I found his stories lacking.Sometimes Lovecraft can go a bit overboard in his descriptions, but I love his writing style.
I don’t know if this is because I’m a modern reader and it takes a lot to freak me out, much more than Lovecraft’s weird fish people, or if the stories just aren’t all that scary anyway.
"The most merciful thing in the world, I think, is the inability of the human mind to correlate all its contents. We live on a placid island of ignorance in the midst of black seas of the infinity, and it was not meant that we should voyage far." For a long time, Lovecraft himself seemed to be a bit of a myth to me. Until recently, I have never read anything written by him and yet a disconcerting amount of pop culture I've consumed in my life (may that be a TV show such as Stranger Things or ev
This edition proved to be the perfect introduction to Lovecraft's writing, as each story is introduced and carefully annotated, providing interesting and valuable background-knowledge.
I love how he created an entire universe and embedded it seamlessly into ours - in his stories, he introduces us to Arkham, a fictional city and location of many of his stories; the Old Ones, a powerful supernatural entity and he is also the inventor of the Necronomicon as well as the Cthulhu myth.
I can totally see why his writing was a real game-changer for the genre.Admittedly, I'm still left undecided about what to think of Lovecraft's writing.
There's a good chance I'll come back to Lovecraft's writing at some point to revisit the dead and waiting Cthulhu and friends.
Hi! Just reread The Colour Out of Space tonight and was it a blast! How closely woven is the atmospheric horror in this story! You can't help but feel awry when being told the scourge befalling the blighted inhabitants...Feels like Lovecraft is the great old one :)Also : this edition is as good an introduction as you could hope to Lovecraft!Matching Soundtrack : Ambient Music for Sleep - Cryo Chamber
While I really enjoyed these scary tales Lovecraft built on the foundation of his own nightmares and neuroses, I couldn’t not notice and not get seriously annoyed with obvious racism, xenophobia and misogyny of his views. Because of this it puts his works on a much lower level among other classics of horror. And 'tis a great pity, because these are some fascinating visions and ideas, fathering too many works of literature and cinema to this day and I am sure future ones as well.
as a big old timey horror fan, I can appreciate the new things Lovecraft brought to the table. and they're great. the prose-poetry writing is beautiful, the stories are scary and the backstories of the monsters are amazing.but it's 2016 and I can't ignore the racism... and it's too much and literally towards everyone that isn't white... I couldn't tune that out.so, as much as I loved some of the spooky stuff, I can't really appreciate them as much as I want tofull review here: https://catshelf.wordpress.com/2017/0...
Говард Лавкрафт - открытие месяца (дальнейшие чтения покажут, может и года).
Вот честно, я довольна предвзято отношусь к жанру "ужасов", ибо кажется, что ничем особым они не отличаются от Кинга или детских подостковых ужастиков.
Вот уж не думала, что так может зацепить подобная история.
Лавкрафт очень напомнил мне Герберта Уэллса.
"Война миров" в свое время поразила меня, выдуманная история воспринималась как адекватная и реальная возможность, несмотря на то, что разум понимал абсурдность ситуации.
Труднопередаваемое чувство, которое автор историй о Ктулху заставил меня вспомнить.
Подводя итог знакомству с новым автором, могу точно сказать, что Лавкрафт удивил, поразил и напугал.
While it's not a full collection of all of Lovecraft's best work, this book does provide a career-spanning survey of this master of horror.
For instance, reading on my own, I would not have recognized the shift in Lovecraft's early writing, where the weird elements are unexplained and pre-pre-historic, to the later stories where they arrive from outer space.
But much like Poe (whose prose also has weaknesses), the joy/terror of reading Lovecraft is in following his warped imagination, in plumbing the depths of horrors the human mind can't comprehend.
If for no other reason, he must be read as a key American horror writer, a direct link in the lineage between Poe and King.
This review is solely on 'The Call of Cthulu', the only story I've read in the collection so far.When I saw the South Park Coon and Friends trilogy last year, which heavily featured Cthulu, I knew it was time for me to read the source material behind this cultural phenomenon.
The first part of the story is the notes Angell has collected on an artist, Henry Anthony Wilcox, and the second part the notes on a police inspector, John Raymond Legrasse -- both of which had strange, though unrelated, experiences relating to Cthulu.
Any horror fan worth his salt should read Lovecraft.
However, if you're only a casual horror fan, I'd skip Lovecraft.
While his ideas were groundbreaking and the horrors presented in his fiction will truly give you nightmares, Lovecraft was not a great writer.
That being said, one doesn't read Lovecraft for artful prose, but rather for the ideas explored.
"The Shadow Over Innsmouth" has remained a perennial favorite despite its drawbacks, as have so many other works by Lovecraft.Again, though, for the casual reader curious about the Lovecraftian Mythos, I'd suggest picking up other writers, like Ramsay Campbell or Robert Bloch, who dabble in the Mythos.
The worst.Purple prose. Necronomicon. OMG there's is something weird and I don't know what it is but I'm going to write a letter and then die/go insane.Repeat ad infinitum.Maybe if I were a high school kid with an unlimited supply of weed. But I doubt it.
Full review coming soon.
