https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/333735.Rabbit_Hill
This book did not win literary acclaim in its own time because it is a gentle-spirited, lovely, book about animals and their families.
It won because it hints at the deeper perspective of the landscape in which these animals live.
Or will it be Bad Folks, like the last ones, with traps, guns, and poisons?Every animal in this book was their own character with their own voice.
Contrast this with the last words of the novel, a workman stating that with all his traps and poisons, he still ends up with half-eaten cabbages, beets, and carrots and that these New Folks must just have Beginner's Luck with their untouched garden.
As a wildlife lover (and bunnies in particular) who actually has created a separate garden for the cottontails to decimate as they please, this book made me feel all warm and fuzzy inside, like I was one of the New Folks.
However it does require suspension of disbelief (the animals can read and have a deep understanding of human culture) as well as a suspension of pretentiousness.
It's just a cute story about animals with no deeper meaning than, perhaps, "help the poor" (although interpreting it just as helping animals works for me).
If you don't like cute stories about animals, don't read it, unless you're reading it aloud to your kids, in which case remember it's for them, not you.
Also know if you read it to your kids you'll have to explain both vocabulary and historical/cultural things they may not be familiar with.
The animals don’t know if the new Folks will be nice people who like animals or mean people who trap and kill animals.This is a sweet, quiet story.
Am I the only one who’s confused by anthropomorphic animals?I don’t usually like anthropomorphic animal stories because I’m not always sure what the author is trying to say with them.
Thar be spoilers ahead!(view spoiler)[Okay, the book ends with the humans giving the animals free food and sticking a statue of Saint Francis in the garden.
Revisiting it for the first time in roughly 33 years, by reading it aloud to my son, I found that there was hardly anything other than the lingering comforting sense of familiarity that I liked about it.
Also, in this animal society, everyone is male by default, with the exception of the fussy narrow-minded house-work obsessed mother of the main character, little Georgie the rabbit.
My son (currently 9) commented that not much happened in the story, but although I kindly offered to abandon the book every now and then, he doggedly insisted that we keep going.
He does usually enjoy animal stories; I will have to try to find some better ones.
The 3-star rating is NOT because it's a groundbreaking award-winning story. It's because I appreciate the cleverness of the Newbery committee for choosing this seemingly goofy book that has so much deeper meaning (especially in the time period that this won.) It's actually a pretty fun read, thanks to the lively humor and plotting. Sure, it's old-fashioned and corny, but that's the point. If you're ever feeling depressed by Newbery books, this will set you up for some good hearty entertainment, delivered in a very easy one-sitting read, too.
The animals have all been worried about finding food as there haven't been human gardens around to raid for several years.
In general, I don't like books that anthropomorphize animals.
Yes, it is a nice message about taking care of wildlife, and I know the point of this book isn't to depict the relationship between humans and animals with a great deal of realism, but I just don't like this romanticized relationship between humans and animals.
You can't just lovingly and generously will animals out of your garden.
I hate to pan a Newberry Award winner, especially one that has kindness to animals as its main theme.
Also, the misspellings within the quotes were, I'm sure, meant to denote some kind of country dialect, but really -- is there any difference between "garbidge" and "garbage" or "sez" and "says" other than the fact that one is spelled correctly and the other isn't?
Instead of helping to make the scenes richer and personalize the characters, such decisions serve only to confuse younger readers and distract from the story, which, handled a bit differently, could have been quite nice.
Some authors are so easy and fun to read aloud and Lawson is one of them.
We both enjoyed the tight and somewhat gossipy animal community of Rabbit Hill, who are all agog that someone new is moving into the farm house around with they live.
Will these people tolerate the animals in their vegetable garden or will they be vegetable misers?
Read this funny and sweet story to find out.
Update: The review above was from 2008, when Logan was 4.
We just read it again in 2013 and he's 8 1/2.
I'm glad to see that Robert Lawson's work was awarded a Newbery Medal, as he contributed quite a few very good books to literature for young readers.
In fact, the Newbery Medal awarded to this book completed his trifecta of sorts, winning the Caldecott Medal for "They Were Strong and Good", illustrating a Newbery Medal winner (Elizabeth Janet Gray's "Adam of the Road"), and now winning the Newbery Medal for Rabbit Hill, which he wrote AND illustrated.
Aside from the historicity of its accolades, Rabbit Hill is an excellently built story with a greater number of memorable characters than most other good books ever approach.
Loved the story, loved the characters, loved the illustrations. One of my favorites, definitely, and like many of my favorite books, it's one I read when I was really very young. It's also one of those books I simply don't want to read again - it spoke to me specifically at the age I read it, and I have a vivid memory and innocent perspective of it that I don't want to change.
A story about the little animals that live on the Hill. The House on the Hill hasn't had any people living on it and is falling apart. The animals find out that new people are coming and the book follows them as they wonder about the new owners and how they will treat the animals of the Hill. It was simple and sweet and just right for a new beginning readers' chapter book
On my quest to read all the Newbery award winners I have picked up Rabbit Hill by Robert Lawson.
I needed Caruso's gentle narration to help me let go of my expectations and relax in a world which, to me, does not exist any longer.
"New folks comin' oh my" is still suck in my head today.The downside to listening to the audiobook is that I missed all of Lawson's illustrations while reading.
Rabbit Hill provides a hope for the future that we can only find by working together.As a Newbery winner, I can understand why it might have won in 1945.
Through it all could be heard again and again the words, "New Folks coming."Premise/plot: Rabbit Hill is an animal fantasy novel that won the Newbery Medal in 1945.
Little Georgie, one of the characters, is bringing news with him: NEW folks are moving in.
Will the NEW folks be good or bad for the Hill?
The animals are starving because there aren't any humans there to care for the land.
(My favorite character was Little Georgie.
I wanted it to be a fabulous animal fantasy like Charlotte's Web. But at the very least it wasn't a Stuart Little!
The mom bunny is incapable of much but worrying, weeping and cooking.This book will really only appeal to kids who enjoy talking animals.
It's not one of those talking animal books like Watership Down where many people can enjoy it.
I probably would have really liked this book when I was around 10 or so and quite fond of talking animal books.
While adults likely won't really enjoy this one, the only part I found really cringe-inducing (Well, other than every scene that mom bunny appears in) was that the end when there is some big unveiling of a St. Francis statue and the animals declare the place sacred ground.
I like talking animal books, but, yikes.
All the wild animals had an amicable society, including predator and prey.
Of course, they are, but for whatever reason, the rabbits and mice and other wild prey were friends with the fox.
I am now realizing I am overthinking this.I can see why it would have been appreciated at the time it was written, appealing to people who had survived the Great Depression followed by World War II, the theme of hope for the happy days of the past realized would obviously resonate, as would a sweet and harmonious society, and the idea of abundance after the rationing during the war.
All of the small animals on the hill are excited at the prospect of “new folks coming,” but what will the new arrivals be like? Planters, or lazy, shiftless sorts? Will they have dogs? Guns? Traps? Anticipation mounts as move-in day draws near.This is a pleasant, old-fashioned story. There’s not a whole lot to it, but kids who like gentle animal stories without all that “red in tooth and claw” stuff might still enjoy this. I probably would have, at the age of seven or eight. Recommended for timid children and nostalgic grown-ups.
Read this to my kids. It's on their list for battle of the books, but it is a bit wordy and they struggled reading it themselves. But it worked really well as a read-aloud and the kids all really liked it!
I was not aware of this book prior to my using the author for my FB avatar. Someone commented on that post about loving this book from her childhood, so I decided to read it.It's cute and easily lovable.Many small animals live on Rabbit Hill. They become aware that a new owner will be moving to the house. How will this affect them? So many other owners prior to this tried to eradicate the animals from the person's property.The new owners have many, animals as well as humans, scratching their heads.
This was a sweet story that surely, had I read this as a little girl, would have made me want to plant a vegetable garden just for rabbits.
Joyful and gentle (for the most part). One that I'm excited to share with my kids.
Book summary: A young rabbit named Little Georgie, shares with everyone that new folks are coming.
The New Folks (you have to read to find out) treat the animals well, yet cause a small revolution between the animals, some sad things happen to the animals.
Grade level: 3-6Appropriate classroom use: Have this book available for students who wish to progress in their reading and are patient enough to read through a chapter book.
Small group use: Students could read the story and figure out who the new folks are.
I am all for a well written animal book (like the incomparable The Wind in the Willows and Watership Down), but this is total drivel.
There is no accountable plot, the animals are crudely characterized, the book is chock full of embarrassing dialect, and the ending is so sentimental and puzzling that I nearly threw down the book in despair.
It's just a poorly wrought, Christianized version of the Mole's and Water Rat's encounter with Pan in Kenneth Grahame's far finer story.
In fact, the whole book feels like a crude, Americanized, Christianized The Wind in the Willows without any of the heart.
This is one of those Newbery Medal books that make me question the committee's good sense.
Even taking into account the award date (1945), this short book is a little foolish and simplistic, in the same category as Ginger Pye, the 1952 winner.If your child enjoys humanistic animals that all talk and live together in harmony (as in, the fox doesn't eat the rabbits), he or she might enjoy this book.
There's a bit of higher-level vocabulary from Papa Rabbit, and Georgie, the main character, gets hit by a car.
There's a short time in which we're not sure if Georgie survives, but he does.
Another childhood favorite that holds up well.
Robert Lawson both wrote and illustrated the book, something you rarely see anymore.
I loved this as a child, and just re-read for the first time in a few decades.
What stands out now for me is the beauty of the illustrations, very finely drawn portraits of more and less anthropomorphized animals and the weird conflict between almost communist ideals ("There is enough for all") and the racist, almost feudal ideal of the Good Folks and their servants and dependents.
Forget the social commentary long enough to enjoy a tale of gentleness and beauty.
I can't believe this won the Newberry prize.
There must not have been many good books written that year.
This is the only Newberry winner I've read to date that I haven't really enjoyed.
My kids found it boring and confusing (the rambling language was often above their heads), and I was outraged at the message that it is good to feed wild animals!
Especially the part about letting them eat the people's garage.
We needed to discuss how this is completely inappropriate and destructive to wildlife as we read this book aloud to our kids.
Take my advice and pick something else.
The last time I read this book was long, long before Goodreads, so I hadn't ever entered it into my list.
This time around, the story had special relevance to my own life.
My husband and I are about to be the "New Folks comin,'" and we've been planning our garden.
We'll be sure to keep the small animals in mind and be sure "there is enough for all." Maybe we'll even add a statue of St. Francis.Another thing I love about this book is the references to the new Folks having too many books.
We all know, of course, how "reading rots the mind!"
I have to say, I didn't give this one much chance. I think it was because I could barely get through the first Redwall book. (I've never been big on anthropomorphism. For some reason I just don't care enough about talking animals to get into the story.) Listening to Rabbit Hill, I started having flashbacks of invented "animal culture", tedious feast descriptions, and the never-ending songs. I think I'm going to take a break from Newberry Winners for a while.
Newbery Medal Winner--1945A cute read...one of the few Newbery Medal winners so far that seems to target a younger audience. A sweet story with some lovable animal characters--I loved crotchety old Uncle Analdus and how all the animals interrupted Father when he started in on one of his long-winded stories. The animals talk, carry bags, make soup, and generally act like humans. They are nervous about the "New Folk" moving into the big house and are hoping for the best.
Listening to the audio...krb 6/6/16This is starting out to be 2 stars but we are keeping an open mind and have one more cd to finish..krb 6/7/16Jake and Ellie rates 4 stars, mom 3 stars. It did turn out much better in the end and we would listen to it again. It is a very slow/repetitive start to the story but progressively gets more interesting..krb 6/8/16
