https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/117002.Man_the_State_and_War
. ." He notes that, over time, three separate views have dominated discourse on the causes of war (and how to achieve peace): (a) human nature is the root cause; (b) the structure of states is the key factor; (c) the international system itself is the major variable.
As he considers the contributions of the behavioral sciences, he notes that (page 79) "The more fully behavioral scientists take account of politics, the more sensible and the more modest their efforts to contribute to peace become." The second level of analysis is the structure of states themselves.
He concludes that his realist frame provides the appropriate impetus to incorporate theory and politics toward the state’s ultimate moral responsibility, that being its accumulation of power via the use of force for the purpose of long-term viability: “A foreign policy based on this image of international relations is neither moral nor immoral, but embodies merely a reasoned response to the world about us” (238).On human nature, Waltz argues “If human nature is but one of the causes of war, then, even on the assumption that human nature is fixed, we can properly carry on a search for the conditions of peace” (30).
I personally picked it up and read it for pleasure after it kept being mentioned in my university courses.
Let's just say that although I picked it up for pleasure, I got very little pleasureful reading from it.
I read the book to more closely familiarise myself with core realist thinkers, and Waltz does a good job of outlining the realist case.
His argumentation is strong, as long as you accept certain assumptions and share certain perspectives.
The main problem is that he completely fails to discredit other perspectives.
Since I read it at a time when I was heavily burdened by the constraints of time, I might think differently of it today.
However, I got the sense throughout the book that Waltz wasn't giving each level its due.
I think some of my suspicion would have been disarmed if Waltz had structured how he was going to interrogate each level.
There is one undeniable fact about this book -- it impacted the field of International Relations greatly.
So even if you don't read the book (and I don't think you should), I still think you should know the book and how it impacted the field.
A very impressive book which has still held up over the past few decades. Analyzes the relations between human nature and war, the structure and nature of political states, and also the structure of the international diplomatic system. A very systematic and solid introduction to neo-realist analysis of modern politics, and one that still is very much worth reading.
Yine de çok temel ayrımlardan söz ettiği için Batı üniversitelerinin siyaset bilimleri müfredatında hala okutuluyor.Waltz'a göre, savaşın nedenine ilişkin açıklamalar üç başlık altında toplanabilir:1.
İnsan doğasına ilişkin açıklamalar: İnsan hırslı, yalancı, tatmin olmaz bir varlık olduğu için savaşlar hep olmuştur.
Tüm devletler demokrat olsa savaşlar olmazdı.3.
Kitap egemen sınıfların düşüncesinin evrimini güzel resmediyor: Çağımızda burjuvazi savaşı çözülebilecek bir siyasi sorun olmaktan çıkartarak, yönetilmesi gereken bir girişime dönüştürmüş artık.
"Savaş hep olacak" diyorlar, "yapılması gereken şey savaşı müzakerelerle, güç gösterileriyle, doğru ittifaklar kurarak yönetip, buradan bizim için azami yararı sağlamak."
Waltz's logical, step by step analysis of why war and peace are best understood at the systemic level of analysis and the basis for his later, starker, neorealism.
If someone is undergoing research in the field of political science and International Relations, this book should be the guiding light to your research, as it provides crude abstractions from the political philosophers from across the era like Spinoza, Kant, Rousseau et al.
How wave of socialism in 19th century shaped the politics European country, in particular hawkish state like Germany.
The book, thus having interesting concepts and framework with reference to how the World political system operates, however, we have to admit that author is trying to construct theoretical analysis of the causes of war.
The three reasons are: man, the structure of states, and the interaction between states in the international system.Waltz doesn't object to the existence of a link between human nature and war, but points out that our understanding of our nature is too limited to be able to give accurate answers.
In a situation where one imperfect state is enough to topple the balance of peace, the solution of perfect state structure for all states seems feeble.The conclusion of this book is that war can be explained mostly by the state of anarchy in which states find themselves.
Waltz uses three lenses to understand why war occurs: the individual, the state, and the international arena.
To analyse each lens he uses a number of scholars whose works are considered seminal in each field, framing them as inhabiting one of two (or 2.5 sometimes) perspectives.
The larger framing of the book is to show that these three lens interlink, but Waltz is hesitant to decisively conclude the details of the how.I think that 'Man, the State, and War' is going to be one of those books that I will have to return to again, and soon, to best understand Waltz's argument.
Until then, it certainly has provided a wider perspective on the beliefs underpinning one of the colossus' in the field of International Relations.
3,5 starsWaltz writes well and this is not a difficult read, but at the end of the day it is a glorified literature review that seeks to ground neorealist thought in classic philosophy.
As such it is liable to the charge that to link Thucydides and Machiavelli to realism is just an exercises in narrative construction on the part of the realists, as well as to the usual criticisms of this approach to IR.
Further, the works that Waltz chooses to review for each of his "images" seem to be chosen according to the fancy of the author rather than any thought-out system.
The 3 perspectives it offers is enough, however I wish it explored other perspectives as well, not to the extent of the main 3 but faucets such as the relationship between state, religion, and man and the effect that has on modern warfare as well. It was a bit bland at times as well, however it's a PhD thesis, not a dedicated novel and so I'll let that pass. I enjoyed reading the perspective that man is the root of all wars, and I agree with that faucet the most.
Daca facultatea ar inseamna studierea catorva carti de baza, altfel ar sta treaba cu absolventii si blank-ul din capsoare. Altfel, de la Dwight Eisenhower citire: ''Daca mamele de pretutindeni si-ar putea invata copiii sa inteleaga caminul si sperantele copiilor din celelalte tari - din America, Europa, Orientul Apropiat sau Asia - s-ar servi, intr-adevar, in mod nobil cauza pacii in lume.''
No question why this book is a classic of classics and a source of reference invaluable in international relations. A must for anyone interested in national security issues.
A must read for all International Relations students and Global affairs pundits.. Amazing and insightful read
3.5
An excellent book that summarizes answers of many thinkers over the years to the following question: what causes war? The author discusses the point of view of various thinkers and how many of them blamed war on human nature, others on the states and others on the state system of governance. However, he reaches the conclusion that those three images combined usually play a role in the initiation of wars. Recommended read.
He analyses the ideas of various individual proponents of this image, pointing out a tendency among them to be either vague or unrealistic (especially in terms of their prescriptions).Waltz is equally critical of the second image, which he attributes to socialists (both true Marxists and “revisionists”) and classical liberals as well as to Kant, and which can be summed up as the belief that if all states were perfect there would be no war.
The only major shortcoming worth mentioning is the fact that, although he identifies anarchy between states as the chief cause of interstate war, Waltz dismisses supranational government without really explaining why.
The third level, the system, he argues is the only level at which adequate analysis can be placed on the study of IR, largely through the explanation of structural anarchy and distribution of capabilities.Waltz's theoretical approach is to assess the three levels of analysis in on which an individual may assess in order to ascertain the cause of war.
Only the third image (when taken in conjunction with the first two, as explanations of behaviour) can explain the context in which war will occur, and how states can move to avoid it in the context of a non-hierarchical or anarchic system.
During that time, his work was seminal in the field of international relations and war and peace studies.
He manages to answer his three questions and ensure he articulates his Waltz hoped identify a trend as to why war starts and determine if prescriptions are available to inoculate states from external conflict.
Waltz states the propensity to peace in international conflict may increase the likelihood of war.
Waltz’s final assessment that states act in their own interest and this method embodies a reasons response to the world is the bedrock of 20th Century Diplomacy.

Waltz busca indagar por las causas de la guerra.
Para ello distingue la literatura teórica, histórica y empírica en tres imágenes: el ser humano, el Estado y el sistema internacional de Estados.
En cada uno de los niveles distingue entre posturas más optimistas y pesimistas sobre cómo cambios en dichos niveles podrían eliminar las causas de la guerra.
El libro termina tratando de articular los diferentes elementos de las tres imágenes enmarcando las dos primeras en la tercera.
El desarrollo sistemático de dicha discusión filosófica para fines de investigación empírica será desarrollado en su siguiente libro: Theory of International Politics, de 1979.
conflict is shown to lie less in the nature of men or of states and more in the nature of social activity.6 Conflict is a by-product of competition and of efforts to cooperate.Conflict is shown to lie less in the nature of men or of states and more in the nature of men of states ad more in the nature of social activity.
What Kenneth Waltz is saying is that when we Socialize we tend to compete more which also creates conflict?
Conflict is aby product of competition and of efforts to cooperate...
if I compete and somehow I'm dissapointed and try to find a way to win am creating conflict?
Buckle up kiddies this is a deep one.
I'd imagine this is a book that one would read when forced to by some angry poli-sci teacher.
Well I read it without prompting so fuck you i'm awesome.
Great ideas based on where conflict comes from, while i haven't read it recently (and most of it was too dense for my waek mind) i can summize it like this: War comes from either, man's nature, the nature of states, or the lack of supervisory control over states.
In the end we get a cop out answer stating it is all three, well bah humbug, so much for solving anything.
This is a core text in International Relations. It is a theoretical text that defines and defends Waltz's version of the realist tradition in IR. It is rather a tough slog, given its theoretical nature. Its discourse is overly philosophical and not very practical although there are times when Waltz resorts to empirical proofs rather than philosophical ones in his criticism of various idealist positions. There are better texts to start with than this one on the realist tradition, such as Donnelly's Realism and International Relations.
Why do humans go to war? Is it possible to abolish war? Using arguments from classical and contemporary philosophers, the author analyzes this complicated subject focusing on three “images” or areas of the problem. The first image concerns human nature, the second the structure of different types of states, and finally the anarchistic international system of states. Because the subject is multifaceted and extremely complicated, the author hits the images from a variety of viewpoints. A fascinating read!
K. Waltz tries to argue the statement that "Realpolitik" in world policy is shifted by the new (mostly liberal) theories. He provides the facts of misanderstanding in the postbipolar world, and sometimes this approach is seemed to be constructivistic. It could be explained with the words of R. Aronm who claimed the death of the "clear approaches" and reagarded the realism as the most cummulative ideology, which absorbed other methods. I really recommend this book as a good one guide on the neorealistic theory.
Argues that there are three images under which one can analyze warfare and its cause - only though acknowledgement of the anarchic system of international relations (image 3) as permissive cause and nature of man and structure of states (1 & 2) as immediate causes can one begin to understand true nature of war. Does not pay to try to improve man or state (even if you could). One will miss the point and, ultimately, fail anyway. Instead, recognize anarchy of system as cause and arrange interactions accordingly.
A simple and crucial insight is at the heart of this book: states relating to each other create a structure -- a structure that then determines the actions of states. A must read for anyone with pretensions to studying International Relations.This is how someone either untrained in dialectics, or someone who refuses to engage in such language, talks about dialectics. How can we know that he might not know his dialectics? Because at crucial stages of the argument he fails to apply dialectics. His explicit commitments, of course, are to positivism.
Oh neorealism.... this is the third, yes third time I've had to read this book. It's pretty standard for IR theory as Waltz does a good job of structuring his argument and coined the term levels of anaysis. But come on. It's all based on an extended metaphor that is confused for a foundational analogy. Well, you probably wouldn't read this unless you had to and if you're lucky your prof will assign some of the better criticism out there of Waltz's theories.
