https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/45100.Ship_of_Magic
Fortunately, that didn’t stop me from giving Hobb another try because this was just utterly fantastic.Ship of Magic, the first book in the Liveship Traders trilogy—which is also the second out five subseries within Hobb’s gigantic Realm of the Elderlings series—is a completely different book from Fitz’s first trilogy.
What differs this book greatly from the Farseer trilogy however is the fact that it’s written in third person multi-POV.
Whether you love him or not, Fitz is a well-written character and Hobb did a spectacular job in fleshing out his and all the major side characters’ personality even when the narrative was told solely from Fitz’s perspective.
Wintrow is, naturally, reluctant to accept his new life; however, when he begins to discover his magical bond with his ancestral liveship, he realises he may have some mettle after all: “For the weakest has but to try his strength to find it, and then he shall be strong.” Conversely, Althea views the life on the sea as a thing of wonderment.
She wants to be aboard her family’s liveship, but the chance has been taken away from her, and handed to the young Wintrow.
I love the way Robin Hobb has written a new trilogy set far away in her already existing fantasy world.
I knew I will not be disappointed and she delivered in best possible way, giving us the talking ships, and characters who are trying very hard to prove themselves.Story follows three main characters Vivicia - the ship, Wintrow, and Althea.
There were tons of other characters too but their story was intertwined with Vivicia, Althea, and Wintrow in one way or the other.The first thing that I noticed about this book was multiple PoVs. I had a difficult time getting used to these sudden switches initially but once I got to know the characters, the ride was smooth.
The majority of characters in A Game of Thrones are AT BEST observers, and often not even good at that; all the characters (especially viewpoint characters)in Ship of Magic have agency: they are making things happen, everything they do affects the plot, the story.
These are cultures clashing because their people (on any side) cannot understand comprehend a way of life different from their own.Wintrow, Althea's oldest nephew, lived with the priests since infancy, because in Bingtown, it's an honor.
As I said in a forum: "[he] knows he’s not a good guy, goes around plotting like mad, but is just going after what he wants in any way he can.
4.75 ⭐ THIS BOOK IS SO GOOD IT’S INSANE!!!Greatness. Absolute greatness.
4.75 ⭐️ THIS BOOK IS SO GOOD IT’S INSANE!!!Greatness. Absolute greatness.
So getting to Ship of Magic was not only a reward but a continuation of the wonderful journey I started in the Assassin's Apprentice, and it only gets better and better with every book.First of all, let's be clear that I am not a fan of the sea, I hate ships (urgh just the memory turns my stomach), I don't care for stories with sailors, I do love pirates but maybe once every blue moon I would go out of my way to read a story about them specifically.
And while I loved her Farseer series, this has surpassed those as my favorite books.Vivacia is a liveship, a boat made of wizardwood, that after three deaths of family members on board comes to life.
While some of the places in the Farseer trilogy are mentioned, this takes place in a different area, and I was fascinated by the magic and depth of this world she has created.To get some perspective, this is an almost 900 page book that I finished in about 5 days.
Even characters I hate with a passion can become favorites in the span of a few pages.Highly recommended.
A very, very character-driven book. It reads almost like a classical family drama ala The Buddenbrocks. Despite the plot being rather on the back-burner I pretty much enjoyed all the characters and their development.Maybe not a book for everyone, due to its slow pace but I really enjoyed it, which was surprising, cause I normally prefer plot heavy books.
Es una autora que te pide tiempo para que le permitas presentarte a los personajes de sus historias y a los mundos que crea.
Sus tramas son lentas, se cuecen poco a poco...pero ay, ¡compensa tanto!
Sus personajes acaban pareciendo reales, creíbles y te mete tan de lleno en sus historias cuidando tanto hasta el mínimo detalle que son una auténtica gozada.En esta ocasión (y al contrario que en su anterior trilogía) la autora nos presenta múltiples puntos de vista.
Estaba algo preocupada porque no estoy muy acostumbrada a historias navales pero me lo he pasado genial.
When her father is sick for a long time her story suddenly begins to change pace and things don't always go quite as she may have believed they would, throwing her into some rather tricky situations.I enjoyed Althea's story a lot, although she wasn't my favourite, and seeing her grow as a character and develop more skills and knowledge over the book was very pleasing.
Paragon is a character whose sections instantly gripped me because he was so different to most things I have read before, and his bitter nature was interesting to follow.- Vivacia - is the Vestrit's family Liveship and she's the ship that Althea and her father have worked for all of their lives.
It started slow for me until I realized that nothing much was going to happen until the extended family all had their say.
So many bad things started happening to everyone so slowly that I wondered if I, too, was slowly being boiled alive.That's the effect this novel had on me.
If you like immersive fantasy and especially nautical fantasy, then you'll love this.Edit 7/5/16Looking back after years and having read the full trilogy plus a third trilogy after this one, I'm a bit more forgiving of the novel.
2015 re-read Originally read in 1995. Still awesome.
I think this could be the one of the best fantasy books I've read so far this year - I can't wait to see what the rest of this trilogy holds!This series is set in the same world at the Farseer Trilogy and so far I am enjoying it a lot more!
Unlike the Farseer books The Liveship Traders follows a larger group of characters - from land to sea we are given a whole host of exciting people to share adventures with.One of our main characters is a young lady named Althea.
She lives aboard her families liveship named Vivacia.
When I'm slogging through a particularlty annoying or slow perspective, I'm grateful for its end, but there are other times when things are finally get interesting, only for the action to then cut-away from what's going on, and I have to wait 150 more pages to get back to what I was interested in.
I'm not attached enough to the characters to long for the time when I can pick the book back up, and, sometimes, I even find myself putting it off during my daily allotted reading time.
Robin Hobb is a master at creating suspenseful stories with vivid and interesting characters that you feel a connection to.
I would've loved for Robin Hobb to bring it up a notch and give the reader the possibility to actually connect with the bad guys as well, and to give the good guys some weaknesses.
In my eyes, that would have made the story even better.Nevertheless, this is absolutely great fantasy which takes you on quite a journey, and I'm very interested to see what will happen to these characters in the upcoming books.
JEEBUS I love you Robin ❤ Full review to come when I have the time to flail properly!Reasons to love Ship of Magic:+ Talking ships+ Mean, handsome pirate captain who sets his skin on fire for angst reasons+ Almost cried 20% in+ Character development like a bossI just cannot COMPREHEND how Hobb is able to make each and every character so multi-faceted?! Like even vile Kyle is doing what he thinks is right.
JEEBUS I love you Robin ❤️ Full review to come when I have the time to flail properly!Reasons to love Ship of Magic:+ Talking ships+ Mean, handsome pirate captain who sets his skin on fire for angst reasons+ Almost cried 20% in+ Character development like a bossI just cannot COMPREHEND how Hobb is able to make each and every character so multi-faceted?! Like even vile Kyle is doing what he thinks is right.
It will never cease to amaze me how writers can take words, spin it and make you care about characters that exist only in books, make you care about the words these characters utter, how because of words on a page, you're rooting for a character to be better, stronger, braver.
It's awe inspiring and just amazing.Robin Hobb is one of those writers that weaves magic with her words.
and it's curious, it's not like her books at least the few i've read have an insane amount of gore or are especially grim.
I know how some reviewers keep missing Fitz, but I personally found these books even more compelling.If you like straight forward fantasy books with a main character going on a quest, Hobb's books are probably not for you.
As I mentioned, she introduces many, brilliant characters that are all starring in a spectacular fantasy story including evil, yet charming pirates, tough girls' running from home, a sinister island, sea snakes and a long forgotten tribe, that in reality is very much alive in the blood of some people in Bingtown...I particularly liked that, although Hobb definitely makes sure to add plenty of tragedy, drama and torture to The Liveship Traders as well, she didn't go overboard this time.
Throw in pirates, slavers, sentient sea serpents, other worldly beings; I was hooked start to finish.This story is set in the same Universe as Farseer, south of the Six Duchies and the Chalced States and approximately three to five years after the Red Ship wars.Early on in the book it became apparent to me that this was a deeper story than the Farseer Trilogy that preceded it.
I am looking forward to continuing on with the next book in the Trilogy.5stars
I've finished it. What do I do now? I feel so lost and I don't own the other two yet so I will just have to wait. I feel like I have been waiting my whole adult life to read this trilogy. Obviously 5 stars.
review to follow. Right now I'm already on board the Mad Ship! And it's quite the adventure!!!
4.5 Los hombres crean sus propios tormentos. Después de tantas novelas históricas y de la anormalidad de King, necesitaba una buena fantasía de las que sabía que me iban a gustar. Hobb está dentro de mi top 5 de autores fantásticos (esperen, ni siquiera sé si son cinco. Déjenme contar. Top 4 tal vez). Tengo cierto prejuicio con las historias de barco (mi cuerpo se estremece todavía cuando en 2010 me obligaron a leer La isla del tesoro en la escuela. Lo siento por los fans de Stevenson, pero lo ú
Lo siento por los fans de Stevenson, pero lo único que me hizo completar esa lectura fue imaginarme todo como si fuera la película de Disney), así que compré este libro con ciertas reservas.
Me temo que Hobb no tiene la culpa de esto, pero, de haber sabido que Medio Rey involucraría casi los mismos temas que Las Naves de la Magia (quitando lo de los barcos mágicos oh mi dios, eso requiere un capítulo aparte), tal vez los habría leído con más espacio entre medio.
I just loved it!This book combines two things that make up a brilliant fantasy book to me: amazing world-building and a bunch of real characters for me to love or despise (or constantly change my mind about).
Add to that many intriguing storylines and you got a five star book right here!
Differently to Farseer this book is written in a few point of view characters.
It all starts in one place, but quickly changes into many different storylines, all of them moving forward with a steady pace but none getting fully answered or resolved in this book.
4.5*'sThis book had all the elements I love in fantasy.
Smart and real characters who weren't black and white.
Different types of magic and magical creatures and you weren't just told about them, you were made to feel them.
How they interacted with the world and the characters.
There was real trauma and hardship, tough decisions to be made.
A lot was left unanswered for us which I love.
Don't show me everything at once, play the long game.
I especially love the two ships.
Looking forward to seeing how their stories play out and for the rest of the series.
4.5Esta autora no deja de sorprenderme. ¡Qué personajes! ¡Qué diálogos! Espectacular trabajo de Hobb. Muy introductorio, le faltó fuerza al final y es espectacular. Lo amé.
Even with 800 pages, though, it felt like Hobb ran out of room to truly develop the world, and because this is a trilogy the characters end up at (what I hope is) the nadir of their fortunes at the end of the book.
I did spend the first 300 pages reading "Kermit," though.Things I Didn't Like As Much As I Thought I Would- The characters are particularly tough in this book.
(view spoiler)[Everyone's 180 turn on how they feel about Kyle - particularly Ronica Vestrit!
4.5 stars.
Absolutely loved this!
I didn't really get into it at first; I kind of struggled with the number of characters, but once the story got going and I got to know the characters better, I loved it.
:)Reread 2018: Absolutely LOVED this reread and I'm bumping it up to 5 stars on Goodreads.
I think the writing is even better than the Fitz books (which obviously I still love) and there are so many complex characters to love and hate.
Hobb writes so effortlessly that it's a joy to read this book!
But her awful mum engineered things so Althea wouldn't inherit the ship all so she could control her and marry her off to some rich guy who could help the family.
She had no right to act all outraged when the tables turned on her and it was impossible to feel any sympathy for her situation after she treated her daughter the way she didn't want to be treated herself.Brashen was meant to be the good guy who was down on his luck and had it hard but everything about him pissed me off.
There are several main characters but chief among them is Althea Vestritt, a young lady who has spent most of her life sailing under her father's captaincy aboard the Vivacia.
Unfortunately, through a series of circumstances and inner family squabbling, Althea is not allowed to continue to sail on board her, thus launching the main story thread of the series.There are many well-drawn characters in this novel, but I always appreciate a good villain.
We spend a little time with another liveship, Paragon, who is considered mad by the populace due to several incidents involving the deaths of his entire crew.
Like most Robin Hobb fans, I was introduced to her work through Assassin's Apprentice, the first book of her Farseer trilogy.
Ship of Magic is a fantastic book with a engaging plot, vibrant characters, and a rich setting.
The Farseer books are really the only books that first person ever worked for me.
Second: Because the books are in third person, there are multiple character points of view.
The cast of characters and the setting are new but take place at the roughly same time as the Farseer trilogy.The characters make this book.
This is a vast improvement over the Farseer trilogy and well worth your time.A
