https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/41334.The_Adversary
It took me a while to get into this one, although eventually I found myself back into the flow.
I have to admire the intricate nature of May’s plot and how it all ties together eventually.
I did find that the sheer number of characters (not all of whom I remembered well) was part of the reason that it was slow going in the beginning.
I also missed the firey Felice and so many others who perished en route to this installment of the tale.
(Perhaps George R.R. Martin learned a thing or two about killing off beloved characters from Ms. May?)A satisfactory conclusion to a really good tale.
George R.R. Martin can suck it. Ten years before Martin started his yet unfinished Song of Ice and Fire, May's four Pliocene Exile books were published at a rate of one every year between 1981 and 1984. And they are epic. Dense and filled with grand world-building concepts and vocabulary (although tinged with a bit of anachronism in places, mostly in some out-of-date ethnic clichés), The Adversary was a solid ending to a science fiction story set six million years ago. Rest in peace, Ms. May - your books still bring me joy after all these years.
This whole series is awesome. I would love to see a movie, even an animated movie, of the many colored land and the galactic milieu.

However, the telepathic powers plot device overshadowed all of the good things, pushing my overall enjoyment of the series down somewhat.
I felt it got out of hand and would have liked a more 'mundane' solution to some of the problems between the different races: human, Tanu and Firvulag (including Howlers), and some conclusions about the mixed bloods influencing human evolution - that was never really satisfactorily explained (or I missed it).Many of my problems with the telepathic nature of the various antagonists and protagonists was that some things were just 'too easily' solved because of this.
Character A has an insurmountable problem that Character B helps him/her solve using his/her superior telepathic (insert specific type of power here) skills.The series ended rather calmly, but it did have a solid ending so I can't complain too much.
Sólo me ha costado UN AÑO terminarme el último de esta saga porque era del todo necesario escribir un PUTO LIBRO MÁS del asunto este.
Y mira que el final ha sido bastante satisfactorio pero la paja hasta llegar ahí, dios mío, LA PAJA.
Recomendable el 1o, quizás el 2o, pero huid del 3o y saltaros el 70% del 4o hasta llegar al final.
The conclusion of the saga. Felice has been zapped, but she seems to have d-jumped to fry Marc in the final milliseconds of her life. As Marc recovers he tries the obscure manoeuvre himself. Aiken faces and subsumes Mercy and then Nodonn, leaving himself in a vulnerable state as the grand tourney approaches and the Firvulag plan for Nightfall. Elizabeth tries to help but doesn't know what her destiny should be. A fantastic finale! I can't recommend this series enough, the writing is immense, characters are great and visualisations amazing.I just wanted Felice to last a bit longer.
Great end to a fantastic series. The last part of the book felt slightly rushed, but all individual storlines concluded. For any fantasy/sci-fi lover, the Saga of Pliocene Exile is a recommended read. I fell for it long long time ago, and still do.
It's good, but not as good as the rest of the series.
The weakest of the four books, but still enjoyable enough. I guess I just don't like Marc's character as much as most of the others.
Love this series!Thrilling series like all Julian books. Great characters doing lots of fun, scary stuff. Read the whole set of Galactic Pliocene stories
3.5 stars.
A satisfying ending to the best space opera I've ever read.
Originally published on my blog here in October 1998.In the final book of the Saga of the Exiles series, the rebel metapsychic Marc Remeillard plays a large part; the title of the novel itself is one of his nicknames.
His children, and the others of their generation, inhabiting the small settlement set up by the rebels, have gone to Europe, with the intention of setting up a copy of the time gate at the Pleistocene end so that they can return to the future.
Thus his plans relied on the availability of germ plasm from his children, hence his determination not to let them travel six million years into the future.
The scope of this saga spanning eight novels is staggering.
The initial four books make up The Saga of Pliocene Exile.
* The Many-Coloured Land * The Golden Torc * The Nonborn King * The AdversaryThese can be read as a standalone series, but who would want to stop there?The “bridge” book deals with first contact and the emergence of humans with “supernatural” powers such as telekinesis.
The settings, especially in Exiles are fabulous.Unfortunately, the US covers are beyond awful, but don’t be put off by that.
Yum....finished a long time favorite!
I don't think the book would have been all that different were it to have taken place in the Galactic Milieu or in Duat.
May set up the Pliocene Exile well; there was great potential at the end of book one.
I think May was at her best when starting new ideas.
It was clear by midway through this final volume, that the Adversary was as much a bridge to the spin-off Galactic Milieu trilogy as it was a finale to the Saga of the Pliocene Exile series.
I have re-read these for the first time in 20 years and am still in love with them.
Now I know where those half-remembered characters that have haunted me for years came from.May is a brilliant story spinner and devotes her entire talent to dialogue and tension, while the action seems to take a second place.
Be prepared re-read some passages many times to pick out all the detail and implications.
We need our minds to be exercised for us so that we can cope with, and explore, elaborate, well delivered punches from masters like May.
In addition to losing so many interesting characters, I really wanted the book to end a different way.
In fact, I had the ending I wanted to read all worked out in my head half-way through the second book (The Golden Torc), based on something early on in the first book (The Many-Coloured Land).
I gave up on the first book in the series after some flowery medieval-sounding language that sounded a little too "fantasy" for me (I've always thought myself the hard sci-fi fan) and yet here I am a couple of months after picking it up again in desperation, just finished with the fourth and final volume.
What finally sucked me in but the enormously complex cast of characters in a universe so alive with detail that it seemed to exist outside of the pages?A great book, though the finest in the series may have been the first, perhaps because of its more likeable cast.
(view spoiler)[I thought this book was pretty average.
It felt too long, but in spite of its length it left a couple of plot strings dangling badly.
One was that she took a major character, Felice, out of thestory but rather than killing her left her in sort of limbo.
These were dwelled on in book 3 at considerable length but never mentioned at all in book 4.
If so, the connection was not obvious and I never read it.
The author's style was average, not impressing me one way or the other.
The story showed a lot of imagination but overall it was not a very satisifying read.
(hide spoiler)]
I was surprised at how much I had forgotten about this book.
But this also may have made it even more enjoyable as a reread - for example, I didn't remember what happened to Basil when he reached the top of the mountain, so that was a nice surprise.
The parts involving the strongest characters, Aiken, Elizabeth, and Marc, were the most engaging, bringing the central story to a solid and satisfying end for the Pliocine saga.
Looking forward to rereading the Milieu books next.
The series' epic conclusion, everything takes on a grander scale.
Characters enjoy more power, and near their goals.
I was left with questions, intentionally I believe, that make me want to continue to the sub-series that prequels this one.My favorite part of this book, and the series to be honest, is the characters.
May's genius seems most apparent in the plot and the fantastic science fictional ideas, but as the series progressed I found myself loving the diversity among and within the characters.
It seemed that they changed more in this final book than any others, giving them a very dynamic feel.
Everything comes to a head in this book.
Aiken is consolidating his power as King, bringing together the Howlers, Lowlives and surviving Tanu.
The Firvulag are keen to bring about the Nightfall war, but on their own terms, and the North American 'children' only want to return to the future.
But Marc is a threat to them all and with powerful machines on his side, he may get exactly what he wants.
This is the last book in the Saga and almost as enjoyable as the others.

Product Description The fourth and final volume of The Saga of Pliocene Exile.Until the arrival of Aiken Drum, the 100,000 humans who had fled backward in time to Pliocene exile on Earth knew little but slavery to the Tanu -- the humanoid aliens who came from another galaxy. But King Aiken's rule is precarious, for the Tanu's twisted bretheren are secretly maneuvering to bring about his downfall. Worse -- Aiken is about to confront a man of incredibly powerful Talents who nearly overthrew a gal
Product Description 
  The fourth and final volume of The Saga of Pliocene Exile.Until the arrival of Aiken Drum, the 100,000 humans who had fled backward in time to Pliocene exile on Earth knew little but slavery to the Tanu -- the humanoid aliens who came from another galaxy. But King Aiken's rule is precarious, for the Tanu's twisted bretheren are secretly maneuvering to bring about his downfall. Worse -- Aiken is about to confront a man of incredibly powerful Talents who nearly overthrew a galactic rule. He is Marc Remillard. Call him . . . The Adversary.
When I don't like a series, I quit reading it. So the fact that I finished this series should say something - the writing and the pace were strong enough to keep my interest. Having said that, my optimism for the last book was only partially rewarded. There were some twists and turns at the end, and most plot lines were wrapped up nicely...but the epic scale had me anticipating bigger reveals, bigger conflicts, etc. The denouement felt calculated and efficient rather than grandiose and meaningful.
This is the fourth in the Saga of the Exiles. Do not try to read them out of order! The whole saga is an enormous work, four large volumes, and there are four more that form a sequel (The Intervention).It would not be appropriate to review this separately (without inserting spoilers) so I shall refrain. Since it is essential that readers start with volume 1, go read my review of volume 1 here. Enjoy!
The book almost fails as a story with the tie-in to the Intervention/Remillard Family Chronicles with the appearance of Marc.May is juggling several themes and several get away from him and I have always felt that this book leaves the reader in an unfinished place.I am a huge fan of a handful of Julian Mays works . . . this is not one that I find anywhere near as satisfying as an engrossing tale nor as as good read.
Simply the best space opera, and the best series of novels I've ever read. This is the first of the nine, and while the last three show signs of fatigue, these novels capture a cast of characters, and one in Marc Remillard, that are truly memorable. From the worlds and milieu May imagines to her evocative themes, the novels capture humanity with all its foibles and promise, and if you stick around for #6, you'll get the best plot twist in all of bookdom.
