https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/17855756-dust
Throughout the whole novel I felt an overwhelming sense of dread, (view spoiler)[thinking there'd be no way there would be a happy conclusion.
Maybe I hyped this book up too much for myself, but I expected it to go out with a bang, and while there kind of was one, it just made me think, "Oh...that wasn't as satisfying as I'd hoped it would be." (view spoiler)[ I wanted to be inside Thurman's head when Silo 1 blew.
(hide spoiler)]The book also felt too long.
I'm excited to read more of Hugh Howey's work.SPOILERS: Things I'd like cleared up:(view spoiler)[What's the deal with the other silos?!
please write Book/Serial #4, Hugh.[SPOILER ALERT] [SPOILER ALERT] [SPOILER ALERT] [SPOILER ALERT][SCROLL DOWN - but SPOILER ALERT!]The ending leaves me emotionally satisfied but intellectually dissatisfied.
In this final book, we see the end of, basically, 3 Silos (1, 17 and 18).
So - of let's say 8,000 originally in both Silos, only 200 survive?Meanwhile, Silo 1 is destroyed by a bunker buster in its reactor room, with but a single survivor who joins the others.
And are our survivors in danger by being outside 200 years early?
Book two, Shift, travels back in time, to our time, and explains the story of how all the silos came about.
While I didn't enjoy Shift as much as Wool, Dust is back up to the standard of Wool, probably because of the return of the characters I loved from Wool.
I guess part of the message that I would like to convey is that despite being the apparent flavour of the day in SF, and coming from a self-published background, these books are hands down fine SF and deserve to be widely read.
Thurman executes an order that pops the door to the outside and sends in a bunch of killing nanobots to take care of the residents inside, and there's a gut-wrenching* scene where Juliette is talking to Lukas on the radio and they're having to say their goodbyes and I-love-yous as Lukas witnesses the white fog filling the silo.
At one point, Elise gets separated from the rest of her group, and wanders into a scene out of a fantasy novel, where a bunch of vendors are set up in an open market, selling random crap or food, and I kept thinking, Isn't this supposed to be indoors?
Really liked most of the Silo Series, it felt a lot like LOST to me at times, something else I really dug.
The overalls, the revelations within revelations, the unfolding mystery of it all -- even the flashbacks to the origin of the Silos.SOME SPOILERS FOLLOW: But also like LOST, there was no great finale.
The Silo Series as ended by Michael Bay.I guess I'm just disappointed because the series had such promise and started off so strong and kept it going all the way until this book.
It was not horrible -- it just didn't deliver the knockout punch the rest of the series promised.
Going in to Dust, I was hoping that it would continue at the same very high level of great story telling as the first two installments of the Wool trilogy and I have to say that it did.
I expected a dark mood to the book but it was even darker and depressing than I anticipated - there were very few happy moments, and the characters we grow to know and love were stressed, pressured, questioned, and in danger from all sides right from the beginning it seemed.
After all the personal tragedy and sacrifice which we agonized over for 450 pages, I thought the ending was satisfying, and done just right.
A pretty good ending to the no-win situations in book 1 and 2.
Silo'yla başlayan, Vardiya ile devam eden çetrefilli macera bu ciltle birlikte bir nihayete eriyor.
Toz'da sadece Juliette ve Solo'ya yeniden kavuşmakla kalmıyor, Silo Bir'de tehlikeli ve gizli kapaklı bir mücadele veren "Troy" ile kız kardeşinin akıbetini de öğreniyoruz.
Akıllarda kalan tüm soru işaretlerini giderdiği gibi serüvenin sonunu da güzel bir şekilde bağlamayı başarmış.
Daha fazla açıklanmadığı için eksiklik hissettiğim ve düzgün bir sonuca vardığı için tatmin edici bulduğum kısımları da oldu.
Juliette her zamanki gibi inatçılığıyla güçlü bir kadın karakter olarak gönülleri fethediyor.
Ne de olsa bu bir Hugh Howey kitabı.Silo'yla tanışmam 2013'te Kayıp Rıhtım'ın "Biz Bunu İstiyoruz" projesi kapsamında örnek bir bölümünü çevirmemle başlamıştı.
WARNING: This review contains spoilers of Wool Omnibus (Silo, #1), Shift Omnibus Edition (Silo, #2), and Dust.
If you haven’t read these books yet, stop fooling around on Goodreads and get to it!I feel lucky to have finished DUST before it’s been officially released.
There’s an interesting friction between Juliette and everyone else, since no one really understands what she’s planning, and no one wants to hear her out.
(hide spoiler)]It’s amazing that this started as a self-published short story a few years ago, and grew into something spanning three volumes, nine if you count all the WOOLs and SHIFTs separately.
Hugh Howey's bio includes this sentence:"A theme in my books is the celebration of overcoming odds and of not allowing the cruelty of the universe to change who you are in the process."The cruelty of the universe was clear in Wool Omnibus (Silo, #1), where humanity was several (hundred) years into living in a silo, the only people left alive on earth as far as they knew.
I didn't review it very highly because I decided that giving me specifics didn't end up satisfying me as a reader, in fact part of the horror that made Wool so successful was not being sure where anything had come from or how long it had been there, and if there was any hope.
Everything comes to an end."Readers of Hugh Howey's Silo series are by now prepared for a certain degree of bleakness, but there are moments of downright agonizing despair in Dust, its final installment.
This tension coupled with that of Howey's vast talent for cliffhangers that are never tacked on but always naturally evolve from situations make Dust a page-turner even for the die-hard Silo fan who is devastated that it's the last of the series and doesn't want it to be over yet.Meanwhile, Donald's story and character also develop satisfyingly.
It’s a decent ending to a trilogy, but I really can’t say I’m fully satisfied with a finale. There are a lot of issues, which could’ve been addressed, and a lot of questions left still unanswered. All in all, I’ve enjoyed this book, but not as much as I've expected before starting it. There are problems with pacing, and the first , maybe even 1/3 of the book is outright boring and too casual to withhold a yawn. It’s not a case as sometimes happens with sequels, that the series’ quality is always
It’s a decent ending to a trilogy, but I really can’t say I’m fully satisfied with a finale.
It’s not a case as sometimes happens with sequels, that the series’ quality is always going lower with each new book, but neither second, nor third managed to reach the quality of “Wool Omnibus”.
It sort of answered some questions, but immediately raised others, and, well, I’m not sure if I like it in this particular case.
Oh, and I really don’t like Deus ex Machina kind of endings, and, well, we have one here.
Also on Booklikes (in the same length and format): http://headspinningfromvagueness.book...I love twists in my fiction.
But sometimes a twist isn't the most important thing to have in a story.
Not in any of the plot details or the characters, but more the tempo and tone - things which I loved while reading the Hunger Games books.While I found this book more about filling in the gaps and wrapping everything up, to someone else there may be a few revelations.
You may find yourself thinking that it was a rather obvious ending.
But sometimes it's not about how obvious the ending is as much as how it was told...
Juliette spends a lot of time going between levels and thinking about the children from Silo 17.
I think that death is supposed to be Meaningful or Tragic, but the pages devoted to Charlotte and Darcy together are really just wasted space.It would have been MUCH cooler if the entire action of this book had been condensed into the first 20%, with the last 80% covering the unsolved mysteries.
Are the Silo 18 people really going to leave everyone else underground?Anyway, all of this book can be summed up with Donald's thoughts on Anna:Again, he thought how things would’ve been different had he woken her with some trust, had heard her out.
So it’s been quite a whirlwind ride for fans and the author until now the release of Dust brings us the finale.
On the way, he changed the way authors and the publishing world did business by refusing to relinquish his e-book rights for seven figure publishing deals.
“Wool” fans this is a brilliant continuation directly from “Shift” and finds the lead characters still embroiled in the politics of the Silo.
It is a satisfying conclusion to one of the greatest science-fiction worlds created in modern literature.Reviews of Hugh's other books and an interview with him at http://susanmaywordadventures.blogspo...
I loved 'Wool.'With 'Shift,' some cracks started appearing in the silo of my enthusiasm, but I carried on happily.With 'Dust' - well, I felt that Howey was coasting on his momentum; using up the supplies that the previous stories had squirreled away in the storeroom.It's not terrible...
The VAST majority of these stories feature Our Characters discovering that the outside world is livable after all, and venturing out to live in it.
In addition, a GREAT number of the details and plot points in Dust feel retrofitted; even more so than in Shift.
Dust is a fitting wrap-up of the story, and it's obvious the ideas contained in the series are phenomenal; if you do some searching on Amazon Kindle, you'll see that some acclaimed fan fiction has chimed in, because the world suggested by Howey has so much more to explore, even though the tale expressed in this trilogy is certainly the core tale of the world.
The plot and ideas are what make this a fun read, but some richer, compelling character-building would have made it better.
Who wouldn't enjoy having something they've written be noticed by Mr. Scott?Overall, the writing style and reading level has a broad appeal and no doubt its popularity will increase and continue, but those looking for some language richness may come away a tad disappointed.
This book,the entire Wool series, is an absolute masterpiece. If you've never heard of it, look up Wool Omnibus. If the description speaks to you at all, don't hesitate. If you've already read it and Shift, you will never have been more satisfied by the conclusion of any story or trilogy as you hungrily read your way to the final chapter Hugh Howey expertly serves up in Dust.
Having read Wool months before Dust, I have to admit that some of the characters and situations were a bit dusty in my mind, but still the narrative does stick together.
Having learned of the nanobots in Shift and the apocalyptic plans of Thurman and his two ill-fated pals, it was interesting to see how Howey threaded the end of his story.
Having read that one last year, I'd say this one is for older kids than Hunger Games was (more sex and language here), but that the character development of Katniss was probably more interesting than that of Charlotte or Juliette or Solo or Donald in Dust.
DUST, the final book in the Silo saga brings an end to both the WOOL and SHIFT series.
What about Troy and Charlotte in silo 1?
Will silo 1 continue to put up with rebellion from silo 18?
All of this is answered and more in the novel.If you've read the other books in this series, you have to get this one.
We see absolutely terrible decisions, but we also see sacrifice and heroism.And whereas the first Wool was all about cleaning those cameras...in this novel, nobody cares about those stupid cameras as there is way too much more important stuff going on.
Juliette's mission to dig to Silo 17 dragged on for ages, and Donald + Charlotte's arc was rather slow moving.
I was glad that the Silo turned against her, she didn't deserve anyone's respect, she cared more about Silo 1 and 17 than the welfare of her own people.I found Juliette's obsession with reaching Silo 17/Solo/the kids weird since she was so eager to leave them in the first book.
Her arc did get more interesting when Donald was taken by Thurman - her contacting Juliette, sneaking out, and meeting Darcy was pretty entertaining.
It built up my expectations to a conclusion of hope and these characters who were finally developed after a weak origin in Wool would finally come into their own.
Instead I was given characters who were absolute idiots and could never understand what is in their own best interest.
Wool set the world, Shift clarified it and gave us hope, and Dust did what the title promises...took this series with such potential and turned it into a disappointing dust from which nothing will ever grow.
But here we are given our own world that has no hope.
4.5 stars...I fell in love with the first book in this series, Wool, when I read it.
Then I read the second book, Shift, and hated it.
It was written in a different style then Wool and it contained a lot of flashbacks to older times which didn't do anything for me at all.
I wouldn't recommend skipping Shift though because you do get a lot of the backstory which you need to know to fully appreciate the whole story.
I was hoping though, that Dust wouldn't be anything like it and was written more like Wool and it was.
If you like dystopian books, then this series is a definite must-read!
'All the days were the same now, and every one numbered.' The decisions of a handful of individuals have shaped the lives of those still living in the silos. The folly of those few 'deciders' has finally come home to roost. For those who love to read of post-apocalyptic and dystopian worlds but can do without the sappy teen triangular romances and made up swear words, this is the series for you. Wool and Shift were excellent, and Dust finishes things off very nicely. Good story!
Kendimi kaptirip bir cirpida okudugum ilk kitabin cok uzun sure bekledigim finali. Oldukca doyurucu bir son ile bitti hikaye. Kitabi bir an elimden birakamadim, son bolumleri soluksuz okudum. Tek sorunu kisa olup hemencecik bitmesiydi. Bu seri beni bilimkurgu kitaplari sevdiren serilerin basinda geliyor
4 StarsFascinating, intriguing and down right scary. Dust picks up where Wool left off. (view spoiler)[Juliette returning from Silo 17, ready to save the people (kids) she found over there. (hide spoiler)] Lots of themes played out with each of these books. Like another reviewer stated, "With Wool, it was the stairs and a representation of class or hierarchy. With Shift, it was all about power and challenges to that power. In Dust, his theme is ‘making your actions count’." I had never thought a
(view spoiler)[Juliette returning from Silo 17, ready to save the people (kids) she found over there.
(hide spoiler)] Lots of themes played out with each of these books.
So, most questions are neatly answered by the end and some things are revealed that leave you angry, sad and bewildered that folks could come up with such a hellish idea.
Are they erasing memories with those pills or "dust??" I don't think that was addressed at the end.
I think Juliette suspected something, but was under pressure to get everyone out, who wanted to leave.
Tas mani baidīja, taču, kad “Maiņa” iznāca latviešu valodā nebija vairs kur sprukt, nācās vien izlasīt.
Man pēc tās izlasīšanas prātā bija ģeķīga doma izlasīt „Putekļus” angliski uzreiz, lai uzzinātu kā tas viss beigsies.
Nu gandrīz viss, vienā vietā gan autors izmantoja, manuprāt, zemisku paņēmienu, bet viņš jau nenojauta, cik ļoti man šis tēls nepatika, neskatoties uz visu viņa racionalitāti.Autors ir pamanījies noturēt spriedzi visas četrsimt lapaspušu biezās grāmatas garumā.
Ja gribas palasīt kaut ko no zinātniskās fantastikas, nedaudz distopijas, vērienīgiem socioloģiskiem eksperimentiem, laiku pa laikam būt pārsteigtam par autora izdomu un to kā mainās notikumu perspektīva, tad silti iesaku izlasīt Elevatora triloģiju, visas trīs grāmatas.
Reviewed at SF SignalREVIEW SUMMARY: Satisfying conclusion to a remarkable science fiction seriesMY RATING: 4.5 StarsBRIEF SYNOPSIS: The end to a post-apocalyptic epic where people have survived underground in silos but are finally going to find out whether they can survive in the wasteland above.MY REVIEW:PROS: Has the feel of a science fiction series we’ll tell our grandchildren about; shows improvement in pacing from previous books in series; surprise ending.CONS: Lacked enough surviving characters to keep us as engaged as we were in earlier books of the series; subplot about the endangered child was not rewarding enough.Wool‘s first line, “The children were playing while Holston climbed to his death…” sets the reader of this series into a common frame of mind where happiness is outside one’s reach, but where the person experiencing that separation refuses to give up hope.
Between Shift and Dust we see the characters largely (though not wholly) emerge from the inner struggles that defined them previously and instead find conflict inter rather than intra-personally.
But more disappointingly, it seems that most of the discoveries of the Silo universe (or rather the discoveries Howey was willing to reveal) were already uncovered in the first two books.
Although there is closure for some of the characters (in what I consider too predictable a conclusion), there was nothing substantively new revealed about the dynamics of the "dust" and its final impact on the world, the fate of the "lost" silos, or of the silos' engineering in general.

