https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/98183.American_Buffalo
"American Buffalo" gives us a sliver of insight into a subculture of ruffians, gamblers & thieves.
Nothing--not property, friends, loyalty or history--nothing absolutely trumps the $.
And although you perceive some tenderhearted brotherhoodsian moments between the three main (& only) players, their nastiness towards one another prevails: it is our main entree.The taut, closed-circuited anecdote is about not allowing your eyes be fooled, so that when the proverbial "rug" is "pulled right from under you," we, as an audience, expect a slight-of-hand-type climax-- Mamet prepares us amply for that--& not the one we must ultimately settle for (as most of the drama is naturally lost in the absence of actual live actors) ...
Βαθμολογία: 7/10Αυτό είναι το δεύτερο θεατρικό έργο του Ντέιβιντ Μάμετ που διαβάζω, μετά το κλασικό "Οικόπεδα με θέα" που διάβασα στις αρχές του 2017.
Δηλαδή, εντάξει, σαν θεατρικό έργο καλούτσικο μου φάνηκε, ιδιαίτερο και κυνικό, όμως γενικά με κούρασε κάπως.
Από τη μια οι διάλογοι, από την άλλη οι χαρακτήρες, κάτι στο τέλος δεν μου έκανε κλικ.
Δεν το συζητάω, είναι σαφώς κατώτερο του εξαιρετικού "Οικόπεδα με θέα" (ρε γαμώτο, κάποια στιγμή πρέπει να δω την ταινία), αν και έχει κάποια σημαντικά πραγματάκια να πει γύρω από το λεγόμενο "Αμερικάνικο όνειρο" και τον κόσμο των μικροεγκληματιών.
J'encourage les européens à lire cette pièce vulgaire mais puissante car elle représente extrêmement bien le génie de David Mamet qui est un des plus importants écrivains américain de notre époque.
Son grand talent de bien décrire les actes, les gestes et les paroles des petits voyous et criminels des États-Unis.
Enfin il écrit sur le genre d'américain que l'on rencontre pas en Europe et que l'on essaie d'éviter quand on voyage aux États-Unis.
Cette pièce offre une vision très percutante d'une classe sociale américaine qui est très peu connue à l'étranger.
If you've never seen a Mamet play before the brilliant violence of the language will shock and amaze you.
If you've never read a Mamet play before this violence will play in your head like a coarse American symphony.Until the very end almost nothing physical happens.
Mamet's characters talk like that.
And the dialects he has created for his characters over the years have been so powerful that they have influenced the writing on "The Wire" and "The Sopranos" and Richard Price's novels and innumerable movies and real life salesman and politicians and street toughs.This play is constantly revived on Broadway and apart from a recent notable exception it always works.
Some plays are so great that, even when reading the script, you can imagine the whole thing and it's fabulous. This isn't one of them.
Gosto muito de teatro; representado e lido. Mas nalgumas peças saio a meio, para continuar a soneca em poiso mais confortável...
I believe I liked this more than the Mrs. We saw an amateur production in Ohio the next day.
This is a tough, nasty little play that is stylistically and thematically very much in line with other things I have seen from Mamet, e.g. House of Games, Homicide, and Glengarry Glen Ross.
And what Mamet does best is here too: the unpredictable twists and turns the plot takes, the surprises, and the explosions of the obvious.The story concerns Teach and Don, two petty crooks who operate out of a junk shop.
There is young guy named Bobby who has been scoping out a wealthy coin collector.
He reports that the collector has left town, probably for the weekend, and Don and Teach begin plotting a burglary.
(My reaction before opening the play and simply looking at the back cover:)Oh goody, a play for three men.
There really aren't enough roles for men in American drama.
SARCASM--So, when I was a young little actor, I worshiped Mamet for his snappy and crude dialogue, his anger, and his general "forget everything, life sucks" style of drama.
I loved how nasty Sexual Perversity in Chicago was.But this?
Not so much.When I look at this play I just see a cranky Mamet mess.
Mamet's other plays are genius, but this one was just not at all what I had hoped for.
American Buffalo is a story of Friendship and Betrayal, parodic version of the American Dream and of course a social drama.As Mamet himself puts it: "the play is about the American ethic of business...
how we excuse all sorts of great and small betrayals and ethical compromises called business."Don owns a junk shop, Bob is his gofer and Teach is his friend.
Don is supposed to teach Bob how to be a man and learn the so called honor among thieves, but instead of sticking up for Bob, Don cuts him out...The whole play takes place in the junk shop and in the course of one day.
First staged in Chicago in 1975, this gritty drama by David Mamet explores issues of business, friendship, and loyalty among three members of the urban underclass.
The dialogue moves rapidly, far more approximating the actual conversation of such characters than is often found in plays, and it is fascinating to watch the shifting loyalties and self-serving plans and actions that ripple among the relationships like light over disturbed water.
The abundant profanities that lard the conversations are not gratuitous but reflect the subculture in which the action occurs.
Lights up on DAVID MAMET and COLEMAN, who are standing in a room, somewhere, who knows where, nobody knows.DAVID MAMET: Hey,COLEMAN: Hey,DM: You checked out my play?C: Yeah.DM: You read it?C: Yeah.DM: You like it?C: Uh huh.DM: I mean, you think it’s good?C: It’s good.DM: Yeah?C: Yeah.
Just like you didn't listen to my play.C: I did, Dave, I swear to God.DAVID MAMET cocks the gun, pointing it at COLEMAN.DM: You didn’t, Coleman, or else you’d know that drama is what makes life worth living.He shoots COLEMAN dead.
This script is a bit of a challenge to read because it is so slow and kinda boring. But the use of repetition and diction within the dialogue definitely shows what each character is like. Would i read it again? Probably not. Would i want to see this play performed live? Definitely not. But its not terrible. I also didn’t really like any of the three characters that are introduced. They were either boring, really rude, or just pitiful.
I'm taking an online course from David Mamet and had to reread the play. Ironically, thanks to the playwright who introduced us to street-speak, the play now feels overly familiar, as if we've seen/heard thousands of stories like it. But Mamet's originality and dramatic craft elevate this above nearly all the subsequent imitations.
خیلی شبیه در انتظار گودو بود ولی در انتظار گودو شخصیت پردازی خیلی خیلی بهتر و گفت و گو های جذاب تری دارهدر کل نمایشنامه ای بدی نبود
there are only 3 characters in this play--Don, Teach and Bob.Although the story has a lot of salty language and violence (stuff I usually Love to read about), I didn’t really connect with ay of the characters.
I was annoyed by the way the dialogue was phrased and how they talked to one another.The biggest lesson I learned from this play was that I am not going to own my own junkshop and rely on someone else to steal from some rich guy’s house with me.
Muito: nesta peça fulminante, três personagens colocam, no decurso de um dia, as suas personalidades em confronto.
O óbvio e o não-dito convergem nas alturas menos esperadas pelo leitor (e provavelmente, por quem viu a obra no palco, numa das várias representações que teve ao longo das décadas por todo o mundo), e o desfecho devolve a banalidade àquelas vidas que seguimos por um par de horas - ou será que tudo mudou?
Uma linguagem coloquial que, por vezes, tem significados muito subtis, como é normal nas peças (e nos filmes) de Mamet, e uma peça brilhante.
Good stuff. Obviously there's the sharp dialogue and "gritty" aspect to this one, but what I really enjoyed was that characters actually misspeak and interrupt each other, lines overlapping. The story of the play works to defy expectations, with the climactic violence directed as much inward as outward. People reveal their true natures in a crisis-- and this play demonstrates that with a nicely slow-burning plot. It's a dark crash course in psychology, which brought to (my) mind nothing except Mamet's screenplay for House of Games.
Master of dialogue.
Teach is the most dynamic of the characters and probably the juiciest role for an actor to perform (played by Robert Duvall in the 1970s, Al Pacino in the 1980s).
But if there is any character development in the play it is found in Donny.
I don’t know enough about 1970s American drama to know how American Buffalo fits in, but, in its exploration of male groups and American machismo, it is very similar to some of the New Hollywood cinema of the time, notably the early work of Martin Scorsese.
Por otro lado, la trama avanza muy despacio, hay mucha exposición informativa y se esquivan los conflicto, lo que da la sensación de que estamos dando vueltas y más vueltas sobre lo mismo.
Lo único que importa es lo que está pasando ahora (esto si me ha parecido más coherente con las teorías de Mamet) La obra me ha recordado a Reservoir Dogs.
La acción se sostiene sobre un atraco que nunca llegamos a ver, pero, a diferencia de Tarantino, aquí no hay lugar para los desvíos en la trama, algo que le hubiese venido bien.
Brutal, breathtaking, and poingiant. Definitely an intense play. Mamet is good at not relying on the setting, opting to instead allow the characters to take precident over the scenes. Here, we get three flawed men who push themselves to the limit in an attempt to clasp an idealistic dream, and the dream descends into a testosterone fueled nightmare. By the time I reached the end, I was chilled to the bone. All in all, it's a great piece of writing. Deeply human with a wonderful and heartfelt story.
American Buffalo is not my favourite Mamet even though I recognise its quality. The exploration of relationships and the American Dream and the limits of and betrayals in both is poignant but I don't enjoy characters who remind me of hopelessness however depressingly realistic they might be. I reserve ultimate judgement though for when I see it at the theatre.
Don't read it unless you see the Dustin Hoffman / Dennis Franz movie first. On the page, it's nothing much; on screen, it's terrific. I saw it on Broadway with William H. Macy as Teach, but the film is better.
I don’t read a lot of plays. This is such a great story, well written, so it was fantastic. By the way, the Buffalo is not what you think it is.
One of Mamet's better earlier plays.
Paperback. Some dialogue lessons here.
Didn't really do much of anything for me...
I highly recommend reading this play about corruption in the business world. It really mirrors what is happening in today's world, specifically within the United States Government.
Didn’t expect to like it. But it’s a lean, mean, tense thriller. All about the money.
