https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/120412.Summary_of_Christian_Doctrine

Excellent for study & review of key Doctrines of the Faith. Can also be used as a reference in preparation for a sermon or teaching series. For those who use the Reformed Confessions, this is a very useful companion book.
Excelente sumário da doutrina cristã reformada.
Loved every word in this book.
A good summary to understand Reformed doctrines.
Berkhof's is widely acknowledged to be the best brief systematic theology written in the middle part of this century.
It is reliable, balanced, concise.
While free of lots of technical excusions, Berkhof was very well versed in the broader theological discussions, both classical and contemporary.
Still great for an elder training course, or for a college student preparing for seminary.
For something even more basic for interested laymen, try J I Packer's Concise Theology or R C Sproul.
A. Hodge, Outlines of Theology.
Of course, Calvin's Institutes of the Christian Religion is irreplacable.
This books is just what it claims to be: a summary of what Reformed Protestant Christians believe. It was not intended to be an entire systematic theology (the author wrote one of those too); rather it is a brief overview of the basics of the Reformed faith. Professor Berkhof was a Dutch-Reformed Protestant and lacks the warmth of an English Puritan but the volume makes up for the lack of warmth with precision. This book is good for those who've never been exposed to systematics of any kind but want to know the basics of the faith.
Short, concise, and helpful. This is a great introduction to theology. It covers a lot of ground in small space and gives the reader lots of Scripture to look up and chew on. This would be a good book to use for officer training, to provide a theological foundation.Similar books include Concise Theology by J.I. Packer and Salvation Belongs to the Lord by John Frame.
Berkhof's a summary of Christian doctrine was too short for what he was trying to do. There are good questions so possibly using it with a group to go through would be beneficial. It was my first exposure to Berkhof, and I like his style of writting. There are other books that probably cover the subject better but all are much longer so hard to say whether I would suggest it or not.
This was exactly what it says it is: a summary. It fits the bill perfectly if you're looking for a brief on Christian doctrine. There is obviously more to be said on the subject but you will benefit from reading this book. Especially like the included references, verses to memorize, and the questions at the end of each section.
Great work by Berkhof. I found it enjoyable because of its clarity and conciseness. To get the most out of it, answer the questions after the end of each chapter. And don't neglect the Scripture references; they are the basis for Berkhof's Summary of Christian Doctrine after all!
After I became a Christian, Berkhof was the first systematic theologian I ever read. This little book was of tremendous help to me after being converted, and is, I think at least, one of the major reasons why I became reformed.
A concise summary that accomplishes what it sets out to do.
This is a great, brief summary of Berkhof’s Systematic Theology.
Sumario de Doctrina Reformada by Louis Berkhof (2000)
This is a very short doctrinal study like RC Sproul's "Essentials".
Systematically it was solid. It gave a good look into the core doctrines of the faith. I found it helpful in strengthening my understanding on them
This book really helped me as a new Christian.
A great overview of Reformed systematic theology. This would be great to use for an adult education class, for officer training, or in preparation for ordination.
It's a textbook--but necessary to read!
Very sound doctrinally, but wording made the theology hard to understand at times.
First-rate theology in an easy to read and digestible form. Covers all the basics. I've read Berkhof's "Summary" several times and recommend it often.
Briefer version of the original.Berkhof, Louis. A Summary of Christian Doctrine. Edinburgh, UK: The Banner of Truth Trust, 1985.
Este libro te lleva de la mano en la teología sistemática de Berkhof. Es unangran ayuda para entender mejor de qué trata la Biblia, el evangelio y la esperanza futura. Sin embargo, me parece que está demasiado resumido. Para poder entenderlo necesité tener a la mano la Teología Sistemática, ya que incluye afirmaciones sin señalar los argumentos que las sostienen.Considero que es una herramienta para personas que ya manejan la Teología Sistemática y quieren impartirla en su Iglesia. Yo lo hice al revés (inicié con el resumen) y me costó mucho trabajo.
