https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1598196.Outlaws_of_Ravenhurst
A lovley book written by Sister M. Imelda Wallace. My mom read this to my sister and a a while ago when we were learning about the English taking over Ireland. Really expresses the brutality of the way they treated the Irish,abused and tried to abolish their faith. Has some interwoven plots. A good story, not 'GREAT' but good.
A very inspiring book. With little jokes here and there, Outlaws of Ravenhurst is the wonderful tale of a little 10 year old Maryland boy who suddenly becomes a Scottish lord. He must be brave and true to Jesus and His Mother to win a battle against his ruthless uncle who is trying to make him give up his Catholic Faith, and to save his true parents, wherever they were.
SO VERY POORLY WRITTEN, FOR SLOW WITTED READERS PERHAPS, READ THREE YEARS AGO AND JUST CAME ACROSS MY REVIEW
One of my all-time favorites!! I wish Sister had written another. :)
A great family read aloud. Everyone enjoyed it!
This story is simply hard to follow.
The author jumps around from place to place, it took me a long time to even get a little hooked into this book.
I had no idea where she was going with this story.
I can tell you that I had a hard time following this writer.
A book representing the Catholic Faith ought to be perfect.
I pushed myself to read this book, I didn't finish it because I just didn't like it at all.
I'm donating this book to the Immaculate Seminary Library in Lloyd Harbor and I'm going to ask the librarian there to read and critique this book.
When a young American boy suddenly discovers that he is a Scottish Earl, he finds himself embroiled in a confusing web of deceit, loyalty, hate and love. Raised a devout Catholic, he finds that religious freedom does not exist in Scotland, and Catholics are cruelly persecuted. As he struggles to continue to practice his Faith, secrets begin to come out, and Scotland becomes more dangerous than ever.This may possibly be the best book ever written.
Nice clean adventure with an historical lesson. Meant for young adults but it was a great audiobook (on Libravox) for a long car ride. In the New World the boy was poor but loved and tangled with bears and other beasts....in the old world he experienced greed, scandal and treachery mixed in with unmerciful bigotry but he also had great wealth. The better world was the new one...
This is a uber-pious book written by a nun, but a fun read regardless involving Scotland after the Protestant "Reformatiion" and a lost heir and the fight to retain your Catholicism in the face of oppression and torture. Enjoyable for the younger or older reader, but geared towards the younger.
A strong story about standing up for your faith, country and honor. I read this as a school assigned book, but I still liked it. It is an old read, but it has adventure and humor, and while I'm more for the modern dystopian books, I actually enjoyed this.
A nice Catholic book with a very interesting plot!
This was a very good book, well these I have to read for my school book reports..but of course I still like to comment on them!it's a good story I enjoyed reading it!
What a great adventure. This story made a great impression on me when I was young. Highly recommended.
I really liked. I found the charictors too perfect, but besides that it was an excellent historical-fiction. I'm a big fan of Scottish history.
