https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/218427.Gateway
Which just goes to show how hard it is to write a book set in the future that won't sound rather ridiculous once you've arrived there.This is the first in a series, and I have heard the later books go a long way to explaining the mysterious alien objects, but I like them just fine all enigmatic and obtuse; over-explaining would make them just one more piece of technology, sans the risk associated with their use -- the drive to explore and discover new things that lights a fire under humanity.
The future depicted in the book is nice Capitalistic dystopia where people sell their own body parts to support their families, so having money is important enough for people to play Russian roulette with exploring the unknown.
So the book consists of two alternative plotlines: one is about Rob getting therapy sessions from a robot psychiatrist and another one is about his stay on the Gateway (that parking lot I mentioned above).
On the other hand Rob Broadhead as a character is fairly repulsive and the therapy parts that obviously revolve around his emotions and mental problems are boring.
Wow. And won a Hugo as recently as last year, for his blog.
And Gateway was my first introduction to his work.
Let me just go add him to the list of authors I want to read more of....
(That's not rhetorical - it's on a Sticky on my desktop.) I will want to be reading more of his work.Note: The rest of this review has been withdrawn due to the recent changes in Goodreads policy and enforcement.
You can read why I came to this decision here.In the meantime, you can read the entire review at Smorgasbook
Allí habla de la culpa, del dolor o los remordimientos que lo reconcomen por dentro desde su infancia hasta su vida adulta pero que no deja salir.
Exploraremos con ello su funcionamiento, su tecnología, sus viajes y, seguiremos de cerca la incógnita de donde estarán y que serán los Heechee.Publicada en 1976 por Frederik Pohl, la novela fue la primera que obtuvo de forma conjunta los premios Hugo, Nébula y Jhon W.
Es mas por ello una novela que deja ideas, pero que su interés radica en otro apartado.Pórtico es todo un estudio sobre la psicología humana ante situaciones extremas, y sus consecuencias.
He and his friends have been talking about sex scenes in SF novels (a notoriously sensitive topic), and Pohl is criticizing them on the grounds that they aren't necessary to the plot."Oh yeah?" asks someone.
"And just how would a sex scene be necessary to the plot?""Well," says Pohl.
There ain't no such animal!""Done!" says Pohl.
The hero has pushed the love of his life into a black hole, but the memory is so traumatic that he's blocked it.
Years later, he's talking about having sex with his current girlfriend, and he says she goes down really well.
into a black hole...
Like my 15 year old self I went in expect a Big Dumb Object fun times, something along the line of Rendezvous With Rama, what I ended up reading turn out to be a fairly slow moving character study within a sci-fi setting.The story concerns one Robinette Broadhead who went to Gateway, an asteroid where fully functional mysterious alien spaceships with FTL capabilities are found.
The book reminds me of Algis Budrys' Rogue Moon, but the relentless psycho analyses that go on in that book make it almost unbearable for me, Gateway makes the BDO and the alien tech more relevant to the protagonist's personal problems, and is simply better written.
A warning: this novel's main plot is not about Big Dumb Object (BDO) or space opera.
This novel is about psychological issue of the main protagonist.
The protagonist get the psych problem due to the science-fiction setting.This novel offers an idea of a psychological/mental problem that haven't happened to human in real-life yet.
If you are interested with the BDO and the setting after reading this novel, don't worry.
Gateway is the first novel of a series, Heechee Saga.
In my opinion, the characterization of main protagonist is perfect for this novel, if the author choose another characterization, the story could become less interesting.
"Gateway" by Frederik Pohl has long been considered a classic of Science Fiction and deservedly so. It's earned its status honestly and is one of the best books I have ever read.What separates this from the myriad other science fiction and fantasy offerings out there?It's the characters. The Plot Gateway is an asteroid in our Solar System that was hollowed out and made into a base of operations by the mysterious ancient alien race known as the "Heechee". They abandoned it long before mankind sto
When the book begins, we meet Robinette Broadhead; a man who has hit it big on Gateway and is living the life of luxury on Earth.
Gateway doesn't have this problem: all the characters are memorable.Robinette Broadhead, the main character, is the most complex character in the book.
Also, the idea that a woman could desire a relationship with a man who's no good for her is, sadly, not unrealistic.Other characters presented in the book are also done well; from the other prospectors on Gateway to Broadhead's computerized therapist on Earth.
I mean think about it: a long gone race of super intelligent beings leave us with an inheritance of a gateway to 1000 locations where unspeakable riches, both financial and scientific, await their rediscovery.
(And we did, I mean the Heechees left everything in pristine condition, just waiting for us.)So there I was all excited and quickly found out that at least half the book is all about psychotherapy of some guy who's been "traumatized".
(view spoiler)[ (yep, you get about a dozen or so "Freudian slips", an anal fixation, supressed homosexual arousal, wanting sex with own's mother...
I mean the guy is so screwed up!
Gateway by Frederik Pohl is good science fiction, I can see why it won the Hugo.
The prospecting comes from taking a ship out and seeing what they can find, the alien artifacts could be worth millions if they are useful for science, or a prospector could go out and come back with nothing, or they could not come back.
Finally, science fiction writers often make the best visionary prophets and though he has done an admirable job with overpopulation and Malthusian ideas about food, Pohl has (in a book written in 1977) enunciated our society’s apprehension about health care as well.
When I picked up a copy of the novel I thought I was heading for an Edgar Rice Burroughs type pulp sci-fi story.
Frederik Pohl story was filled with a ton of intriguing concepts and interesting themes but he had an engaging writing style and this was above all else a character driven sci-fi story.
The aim of the Gateway travellers is to seek out new Heechee outposts in order to discover more of their ancient technology and to search for anything else that might be useful.
We followed the story of Gateway prospector Robinette Broadhead.
Robinette Broadhead was an interesting character.
Aunque todos los elementos de la historia que encontramos en Pórtico resultan bastante atractivos de por sí, lo que convierte el clásico de Pohl en una novela tan sobresaliente es sin duda su trepidante ritmo narrativo, la inteligencia con que están hiladas las diferentes tramas y el certero perfil psicológico que hace Frederik Pohl de su personaje principal, quien poco a poco irá perdiendo el beneplácito del lector e irá revelando en su lugar una personalidad grotesca, repleta de inseguridades.
On this dull, foggy, and cold day, I reluctantly finished this sixth re-read of "Gateway." It's still as fresh as when I first read it in a tent in the Orkney Islands 30 years ago, waiting for the rain to stop for just a moment, for the clouds to raise their petticoats before the hint of a horizon. Eyes-closed wonder.
I couldn't WAIT to read this story....Well...we actually spend half the book in a psychologist's office, as our "hero" vents his issues at Sigmund the Freudian robot shrink.- Of the half that we spend on Gateway, almost the entire time is spent thinking about possibly taking one of the ships out on a mission.Now I am all for book that is light on action and heavy on character and intrigue.
The problem with "Gateway" is that if we were brainstorming ideas on ways to make the reader dislike a character, our protagonist Robinette really ticks a lot of the boxes."Rob" hates going to his Robot therapist.
Definitivamente se ha convertido en una de mis favoritas.En un futuro en donde la Tierra se encuentra superpoblada y sus recursos son limitados, existe la posibilidad de convertirse en un prospector de Pórtico: un asteroide usado como puerto espacial por una civilización desaparecida hace miles de años.
Pórtico cuenta con miles de naves espaciales alienígenas cuyo funcionamiento es un misterio para los científicos debido en gran parte a que el destino de las naves está pre-programado y es desconocido.
Como prospector, puedes arriesgarte a viajar en una de estas naves con la esperanza de descubrir artefactos alienígenas o conocimientos científicos valorados en millones de dólares.La historia es contada en primera persona a manera de recuerdos de un prospector durante su época en Pórtico.
Since the main story is told in flashback, and he is still a whining, self-absorbed shithead in the frame story, we spend the whole book knowing that he will not grow or change at any point through the adventure he is relating to us, and for all we know his whining self-absorbed shitheadedness will only get worse.
It does, in both the frame story and the main story.
Pohl's cynicism is a little too deep for my taste, and there's a lot of pseudo-Freudian hokum that passes for character motivation.Trigger-warning: Scene of domestic violence is especially brutal and the book is ambivalent at best about the protagonist's justification for it.
It captures the reader from the first page and you just end up wanting to know more and more and more about the understory so you can't stop reading.I will say this about the main character...I did not like him very much.
This is a kind of asteroid-type place discovered totally by accident, and what was novel about this place is that it seems to have been a base of some sort containing over 1000 Heechee ships...each programmed to go to a particular destination and hopefully return.
I just re-read this story on May 13, 2010 after having first read it back in 1998.
This is still a "classic SF story" that is worthy of the title and one that I recommend to any fan of science fiction.
Also, the central idea of the novel (i.e., the Gateway and the Heechee technology which humans use but do not understand) was highly original when first written and has been copied (a clear sign of its brilliance) by many authors since.
Recommended!!Winner: Hugo Award for Best Science Fiction NovelWinner: Nebula Award for Best Science Fiction NovelWinner: John W.
I'd also recently finished his enjoyable capitalist-dystopian novels The Space Merchants and sequel The Merchants' War. Sadly there is nothing to like about Pohl's protagonist in this novel, in fact Bob is a despicable human being on all accounts (and not in an intentionally anti-hero sorta way either).
Earth to Pohl - a simple "I'm really really sorry and want to marry you" does not adequately deal with serious domestic violence!At this point I wanted to throw the book out the window but I held out hope for some form of redemption.
After getting the audio version on sale I was surprised at how much I enjoyed the book.
Enter the brave space pioneers that are willing to risk their life in making these incredible journeys with only a percentage of hope of returning.
Our protagonist, is nothing special, just your average down on his luck prospector that is at the end of his rope with nothing to loss (but his life) that makes a last ditch gamble to strike it rich.
The interplay between the main character and his A.I. Psychiatrist is very rich.
This is an enjoyable read firmly set in the science fiction tradition.
I read this book in 2006 — 30 years after it was first published — and it immediately shot up to my top 10 list of science fiction books. It is highly original, entertaining and thought provoking. It loses none of it's wow! even 30 years after it was written.
Two narrativesThe first dealing with the Heechee artifacts and the circumstances of the discoveries and subsequent explorations.The second was the therapy sessions of the main character and his AI psychiatrist.Really enjoyed the ideas and concepts of the Heechee side of the story but it got to the point where I hated the the therapy portion of the story.5/10
I can't say for certain since I haven't read them, but I didn't feel like the book was incomplete.
So if you read my reviews, you'll probably know I read a lot more fantasy than Science Fiction.
I also have a pretty bad track record with older Sci-Fi.This book has won a lot (all?) of awards.
As the book went on however, I warmed up to this device, and found it a pretty good mechanism for "info-dumping" to the reader.I struggled to like the protagonist, especially later in the story, but I found his journey fairly enjoyable.
I would have struggled mightily with all the psychological aspects of the book which are basically the heart of the work.Pohl swept the board garnering as full an array of sci-fi awards as it is probably possible.
Interspersed between chapters a future Broadhead is probed by his A.I. psychiatrist, trying to discover the root cause and a therapy for his patient's damaged psyche.I know it's a reviewer's cliché but Pohl achieves a true tour de force.
There are further books but Gateway stands quite sturdily alone.
An Interesting Debrief13 June 2018 There is literally so much to like about this book, particularly since I picked it up from this really cool game that I played something like years ago (and it was also called Gateway, and based on the book). There is a mysterious alien race that has left artifacts scattered across the universe, and there are two strands running through the book that tie up beautifully, and rather unexpectedly, at the end. Then there is that mess that certain stellar phenomena
There is a mysterious alien race that has left artifacts scattered across the universe, and there are two strands running through the book that tie up beautifully, and rather unexpectedly, at the end.
We do know that Bob does eventually strike it rich, since we are told that right through the book, particularly since most of the story is a retrospective look from the future.
In a way, I’m still uming and ahing about whether to actually get my hands on the sequel, particularly since having the Heechee remain a mysterious alien race simply adds to the beauty of the book.
Tiene una estructura en la que Rob, el protagonista, nos va contando lo que ocurrió en el pasado, cuando él fue a Pórtico, y lo que le ocurre ahora, desde la consulta de un psicólogo virtual, al que llama Sigfrid.Mi mayor problema ha sido con el protagonista.
Quiero decir, sabemos que Rob tiene problemas psicológicos porque está en tratamiento, pero eso no es lo mismo que estar como un cencerro, algo que en cierto momento percibí como tal.El resto de personajes son como atrezzo.
Ya no es esa ciencia ficción que para hablar de la humanidad, se centraba en la tecnología y los dilemas que ella imponía.
Es la ciencia ficción que para hablar de lo humano, se centra en lo humano.
Si bien lo planteado por Pohl como contexto de la historia habría dado para que cualquier escritor se detuviera bastante allí (la existencia de Pórtico, la civilización Heechee, lo descubierto en el universo), el autor prefiere centrarse en el personaje principal.
Algunos dirían que no le saca provecho a su "universo"; yo diría que un escritor genuino y con talento puede darse esos gustos, también imagino que en las secuelas viene a llenar todo lo planteado y responder preguntas.
Anyway, Sigfrid recommended this book Gateway, by Frederik Pohl, because he said it’d help me understand awkwardness better.That’s a little weird, of course, because Sigfrid is a character in Gateway, so I don’t see how he could have recommended it to me.
Not to mention simply exploring the world building, learning the details of how such a prospector system would work, is fascinating.But then there’s the other half of the chapters, the ones in which Bob interacts with Sigfrid von Shrink, the robot therapist.
Because you don’t like any of them.Sigfrid told me that the way to deal with awkward situations isn’t to stay silent, but to be amicably honest.
Space opera combined with Freudian psychology, set in two parallel timelines. Even if the main character, Rob (Robinette) was not a likeable person, he was definitely interesting, and I totally loved 'Sigfrid' (kind of an advanced ELIZA).Almost forgot, this comparison marked me (even though men aren't like wolves, they don't stop when seeing submission): "It isn't a matter of what's rational or justified, it is a matter of signals. It was the wrong signal to give me. The reason wolves don't kill
Even if the main character, Rob (Robinette) was not a likeable person, he was definitely interesting, and I totally loved 'Sigfrid' (kind of an advanced ELIZA).Almost forgot, this comparison marked me (even though men aren't like wolves, they don't stop when seeing submission):
"It isn't a matter of what's rational or justified, it is a matter of signals.
It was the wrong signal to give me.
The reason wolves don't kill each other off is that the smaller and weaker wolf always surrenders.
For the same reason men don't usually kill women, or not by beating them to death.
But if the woman makes the mistake of giving him a different signal by hitting him first.."
So the ending and the last ~100 pages really saved up this otherwise disastrous thing that promised a lot of awesomeness and actually dealt only a few cynical perspectives and insignificant actions around humanity's greatest discovery. I am really looking up for the sequels, hoping they'll prove any better.
