https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/41014989-making-history
And of course the second story line about a history student who has just submitted his PhD thesis, was quirky enough and contained all the good parts, the parts where Fry questions things like the relationship between science and art, and how society attributes more importance to one rather than the other.But then, at about the half-way point, two things happened:For one, I realised how unusual it is to read a WWI account (even tho fiction) from a German perspective.
My favourite Fry book.
His jumps between narratives and playful use of various lit devices is only possible for Stephen Fry. As usual, you instantly adore the protagonist and watch his every fumbling step with the same paternal-yet-slightly-benevolently-lecherous gaze as Fry. The action in this is perfectly paced, the history glitters with colour, the humanity is raw, the politics aren't preachy or overdone, the love is true, and the voices are clear and exact.
I want to make love to this book, it is so gorgeous.
If I was a boy, I would freely offer myself to Mr. Fry.
Stephen Fry tackles this in a best-of-all-possible worlds way in Making History, where his protagonist succeeds in averting Hitler’s birth only for someone more charismatic and cunning to rise to power in his place.I didn’t like this novel at first.
Fry reveals more about the new timeline gradually, giving the reader time to acclimatize alongside Michael, who must pretend like everything is cool to throw off some suspicious G-men even while he secretly freaks out and wants to find a way to restore the original timeline.This is a subject understandably close to Fry’s heart, because he has family who died at Auschwitz.
The book started well enough, young chap at Cambridge (Fry's alma mater) immersed in the history of Hitler, working towards spending his life at Cambridge in a paid capacity, is having a tough time with his hard-nosed scientist girlfriend who finally leaves him (I found her more interesting than our hero, stronger, and more capable of carrying a story, and was sorry to see her go).
Therefore, even without Hitler, the basic impulse of the time is achieved through a different cast of characters.
Probably my favorite fiction book by the wonderful Stephen Fry - when you have read his autobiography, my suggestion is to go for this one!
The story, obviously, is about the changing of history and the consequences thereof.
Wonderful, live and likeable characters (and some not likeable at all, of course) and has all the trademark Fry: English humor, wit, and beautiful language.
At no point in this book this feels overdone, but I felt that he hit just the tone and pace here.
This was, even though it's a bit long, a smooth and not easily paused read and one that I recommend very much.
This was clearly not a success for me. Especially the literary level was very low: weakly portraited, one-dimensional characters, an occasional exciting moment but a lot of very boring moments, especially in the passages that have been written as a film script, and a really really dull final. The only interesting approach is that Fry tries to imagine what the consequences would be of attempts to change history, but even that is poorly executed. As a novel this does not exceed the level of cheap science fiction, suitable to read on the beach.
You can read this review and more on my blogIn a nutshell: Making History is an equally fun and thought-provoking read about an alternative history where Hitler was never born.This was not only my first Stephen Fry novel but my first read for 2015.
What more can I ask for from a book?Making History answers an interesting question - what if Hitler had never been born?
Leo was an especially interesting character, considering the moral dilemma that drove him to change history.
(hide spoiler)]Fry is a wonderful story teller and I was engaged throughout the book, even during its build-up to the actual history "making".
What.The.Hell.Dude.So obviously the professor who is in charge for his thesis isn't too thrilled and wants him to rewrite his shit.
At this point they just look at it...but what would happen if they could actually do something that would prevent Hitler from doing the horror we all learnt about at school?So the story unfolds there.The book switches between chapters focusing on the "present", 1994 with struggling Michael and his life, and the past where we get to know Adolf Hitlers mother, her abuse by Alois and so on.
Slow to get started, but once the set up ended (around page 150), it got completely awesome and very interesting.
Michael and Leo try to fix the world by making it so that Hitler was never born, except the world that results is even worse.
I loved the glimpses of the technology in the alternate world.
I think the premise that the world ends up in a perpetual state of the 1950s is fascinating.
I liked how Michael and Steve's relationship evolved, although I'd have liked to see a bit more of it.
It was really just all around cool and fun and interesting.
Thoroughly good book. The idea this book is based on is nothing new, people have discussed this many times, but this is the first time I have seen the idea written down. It has been very well done, the different writing styles used keep you entertained. Michael and Leo are very good characters and some of their dialogue had me in stitches.The first book I have read by Mr Fry, I will be back to read some more.
Amazing. My absolute favorite of Fry's excellent works, and one of my favorite books, period. Hilarious, it goes without saying. Intelligent, playful, silly/serious. Romantic. No one but Fry could write a book about Hitler that can make you cry with laughter. "Sodding pants."
সটিফেন ফরাই একজন বহুরূপী। তিনি একাধারে একজন কমেডিয়ান, লেখক, অভিনেতা, উপনযাসিক, কবি, কলামিসট, চলচচিতর পরিচালক, টেলিভিশন বযকতিতব এবং পরযুকতি বিশেষজঞ। “বলাকএডার” “ওয়ালডি”-র মত জনপরিয় সিটকমে যেমন অভিনয় করেছেন তেমনি অভিনয় করেছেন “ভি ফর ভেনডেটা”-র মত সফল চলচচিতরে এবং লিখেছেন অসংখয জনপরিয় বই। ফরাইয়ের অসংখয বইয়ের মধযে পরথম পড়ার সুযোগ হল অলটারনেট হিসটরি জনরার “মেকিং হিসটরি”।অলটারনেট হিসটরি রচনা করতে হয় ইতিহাসের পরিচিত এক বা একাধিক ঘটনাকে ভিনন ভাবে উপসথাপন করে। যদি ইতিহাসের "এই ঘটনা"-টা "এমন" না হতো তাহলে
স্টিফেন ফ্রাই একজন বহুরূপী। তিনি একাধারে একজন কমেডিয়ান, লেখক, অভিনেতা, উপন্যাসিক, কবি, কলামিস্ট, চলচ্চিত্র পরিচালক, টেলিভিশন ব্যক্তিত্ব এবং প্রযুক্তি বিশেষজ্ঞ। “ব্লাকএডার” “ওয়াল্ডি”-র মত জনপ্রিয় সিটকমে যেমন অভিনয় করেছেন তেমনি অভিনয় করেছেন “ভি ফর ভেন্ডেটা”-র মত সফল চলচ্চিত্রে এবং লিখেছেন অসংখ্য জনপ্রিয় বই। ফ্রাইয়ের অসংখ্য বইয়ের মধ্যে প্রথম পড়ার সুযোগ হল অল্টারনেট হিস্ট্রি জনরার “মেকিং হিস্ট্রি”।অল্টারনেট হিস্ট্রি রচনা করতে হয় ইতিহাসের পরিচিত এক বা একাধিক ঘটনাকে ভিন্ন ভাবে উপস্থাপন করে। যদি ইতিহাসের "এই ঘটনা"-টা "এমন" না হতো তাহলে কী হতো?
This is such an unusual book for me, mainly in a sense that I don't tend to read SciFi and time travel and the like.But I knew that anything written by Stephen Fry would be funny and witty, and the description sounded very intriguing.Well then, imagine my shock when I read the first couple of chapters and discovered that not only is it funny but also very approachable and human and real, and that the description doesn't do the plot justice, in the sense that we are not only being told about the past but actually living through it, with the people of the times.
The best part of the book was the alternate world that Fry imagined, with a very different outcome to the Second World War from the one we know.I found the protagonist incredibly irritating, though I was presumably supposed to find him charming.
This makes as much sense as the old films where Germans (or other nationalities) spoke to each other in English with heavy accents so that we would know they were really speaking in German or French or whatever.Barely two stars, one being for the alternate outcome for Europe that Fry imagined and described well and succinctly.
If you're over the age of sixteen, chances are that you have spent a minute or two - in school or outside of it - pondering what our world would be like if the Germans had won World War II, or if Adolf Hitler had never been born, and that's exactly what this novel is about.
I also learned a few things about history - I can't believe I never knew that "Nazi" was merely the first four letters of the full name of the political party that Hitler helped to found, for instance.
He crosses paths with a theoretical physicist who shares a painful personal story and, combined with access to an ex-girlfriend's pharmaceutical project at work -- proposes "let's make sure Hitler was never born." The book really didn't pick up steam until about halfway through -- that's a massive investment in weak development of ancillary characters and lengthy history essays.
We learn about the new world at the same pace of the protagonist.In a rather circular, roundabout way, Fry makes the point that cultural conditions result in so many things that the removal of one person won't necessarily mitigate the development of some particular outcome.
When someone as talented, witty, and educated as Stephen Fry writes a book, you half-expect brilliance on every page.
While his genius was clearly in evidence, it was only every other page or so where it struck me--still a helluva good rate.Fry did not lack for ambition.
A polymath like Fry certainly knows enough European history to do that.
In my mind, his knowledge of the German experience between the wars more than made up for the inherent flaws in time travel logic.
Now I'm wondering: what if someone went back in time and made Making History disappear?
I think I read somewhere once that the first rule of timetravel is that you try to kill Hitler, and the second rule is that it either doesn't work, or things get even worse.This book falls into the second category.
So, in terms of concept, it's not entirely new, but the execution is really really good.The book does an excellent job of capturing the human emotional level of the whole insane thing, and it's much funnier than you'd expect this kind of book to be.This is not really a science-fiction book though.
This was the first book by Stephen Fry that I have read.
It is an enjoyable easy read, dealing with one of my favorite genres, time travel.
does Fry do this often?The storyline is a fairly classic one, What would happen if you travelled back in time and prevented Hitler from being born?The clever consequences of this action make this a very interesting read.
I was also quite amused by the comparisons between "American" and English" expressions in the book, as a Canadian, is was 50/50 as to which one was more familiar to me.
Wow - this book was amazing! In the beginning, the switch between past and present was a bit odd and I had a hard time to find into the book. But after several chapters, you see how all of it fits to the story and then I couldn't stop reading. So I am really happy that I had the opportunity to read it & can only recommend it!
Excellent writing should always be acknowledged and I’d be selling Fry short if I just gave a nod in that direction because we all know that the man has an intellect the size of Greece’s overdraft.
Later in the novel, there is another, longer film script interlude, which also had the effect of alienating me from the action – a real shame as I’d really enjoyed the book up to this point.
Fry is good at writing minor characters memorably and the flashes of humour helped alleviate what could have been a grim read, given the subject matter.All in all, it’s an interesting book with an interesting premise and if you enjoy alternate histories, I highly recommend it.
Young is writing his thesis about Hitler's life, while Zuckermann creates a time machine.
The writing was a bit weird; it was something that I had not encountered before, the POVs kept shifting to people I did not know (I did not understand it at all, to be honest), but it all made sense after I found out what Young and Zuckermann were up to.
It gave a nice touch to the book.The only thing that really annoyed me was Rudolf Gloder's POV.
It's a real page turner and before you know it you slam the book shut and realise it's all over.
This is my first approach to Fry's books.It is an entertaining read.
He is a talented and cultured man and that it is what you see while reading.A book is always embedded with the author's feelings likes and dislikes and opinions about anything.
American, social and cultural criticism...) All of them spiced by many comments showing the broad culture of the author; a thing that, so plainly shown, I dislike very much in a book; the research, knowledge and culture should be there, but more slightly woven into the whole story.
What it is left is just an entertaining reading of Fry's humoristic view on the world.
There are not so many books which manage to get in your head in such a way that you ask yourself all those questions even though you know you won't get an answer.
And it does so in such a light way filled with humor but it talks about topics darker than the night sky.
What if Hitler had never been born?
Would have this world been a Utopia or would it be even worse?
Is there always a worse possibility?
What ifs and what-should-have-beens are numerous and I cannot give enough praise to Mr. Fry for writing such a book.
Although it took me a while to get into it (the beginning of the book is slow), I greatly enjoyed "Making History".
Fry manages to take a well-discussed topic and a well-known (even worn) idea, and shape them into a funny and insightful story.
Mostly, I'm amazed by his ability to meaningfully discuss such a complex and heavy topic, and still leave me with a smile on my face.While I didn't like Fry's writing style and his peculiar protagonist at first, I learned to love them both by the end of the book.Highly recommended to any humor or history lover, preferably both.
Забавно, насколько чудесные концовки "Лжеца" и "Гиппопотама" меняют отношение ко всему тексту. Это действительно так работает: Читаешь книжку, местами скучаешь, местами ощущаешь легкое неудобство, будто кто-то публично испортил воздух, а потом, внезапно, концовка, катарсис, гранд финале и все внезапно становится на свои места и ощущение совершенно замечательное. Я за это очень люблю Фрая, да.Ну так вот, а тут все наоборот:( Замечательный зачин и сюжет и его развитие... А потом, вдруг, самая избитая из возможный концовок с ворохом неприятных (лично мне) моралите. Может я не понял чего?
Loved this book from the first page, Stephen Fry has a wonderful turn of phrase and the way, which is so easy to read.The story is different take on time travel and results in history being worse after the first bout of time travel than it originally was. However all things end up as they should by the end, or do they?At times it was very funny, at other times quite serious, but a great read overall.
a little too long, but a fun ride nonetheless.
4.5*
I love the writing and the plot is one of the most fascinating ones I've read *-*
