https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7815744-the-upside-of-irrationality
Even if one disregards the relative weakness of the empirical evidence to support them, claims made in the second book are simply not as interesting as the earlier work - either they are immediately obvious, or restatements of material likely to be familiar to anyone who has done any prior reading in this general area.
Since long I have wanted to add a gist of review of this book, chapter-wise so that I could look up later.Part 1 - Work-related Irrationalities1.
(Which means CEO high salaries aren't quite logical.) Oh, but this is no way a bad news for your rewards and recognition program.
For the people, who saw their 'creation' being demolished right in front of them, they found it difficult to go on with work even though they were being paid.
Ikea works its not too complicated and yet it gives your bask in that pride that comes when you create your own thing.4.
How adaption can work for you.2.
People need meaning in their lives and structuring their work so that it is meaningful is the best way to increase their performance, which is also why we tend not to give money to 'save the planet' causes as much as we give to find Snuggles, the lost puppy charities.
I think if that is the case then Behavioural Economics may have more to offer than what it does today, a series of often disconnected even if fascinatingly interesting experiments.I still recommend you read this book.
دومین کتابم از دن اریلی بود و از خوندنش بسیار راضی هستم. خوندنش رو به تک تک افراد اطرافم توصیه میکنم.اما کاش این رو هم مثل کتاب قبلیم از دن اریلی، به انگلیسی میخوندم. ترجمهی آقای اصغر اندرودی خیلی ضعیف بود. در بعضی موارد به طرز ناشیانهای از ابزار ترجمهی گوگل کپی شده بود.
دومین کتابم از دن اریلی بود و از خوندنش بسیار راضی هستم. خوندنش رو به تک تک افراد اطرافم توصیه می‌کنم.اما کاش این رو هم مثل کتاب قبلیم از دن اریلی، به انگلیسی می‌خوندم. ترجمه‌ی آقای اصغر اندرودی خیلی ضعیف بود. در بعضی موارد به طرز ناشیانه‌ای از ابزار ترجمه‌ی گوگل کپی شده بود.
Maybe I was in a more "critical" frame of mind when reading this, but a couple of the early chapters left me with some questions.In Chapter 2, he discusses the concept of “contrafreeloading” and uses the example of the rat who, at the sign of a light signal, leaves a “free” bowl of food in favor of the lever that he must push to produce food, as well as his pet parrot, Jean Paul, who spends hours with her SeekaTreat uncovering food, despite the presence of “free” food.One thing that I didn’t quite understand (although, of course, I’m most certain that he accounted for it somehow) is how he ruled out the possibility that perhaps the rat was simply trying to maximize its food supply by going after the time-restricted food, knowing that the “free” food wasn’t going anywhere, and that it would therefore have even more food for itself overall once the light goes off again.
But what gives this book the magnetic charm is the personalized narrative of the authors life, the openness of his feelings, the horrible memories of his recovery period (having suffered 3rd degree burns), the silly humor and yes, the slight hint of sarcasm the author has towards his fellow bankers, economists and intellects.However, as opposed to Predictably Irrational it doesn't provide any new insights.
So can this hypothesis be sufficient to make a global theory?Ariely then peppers the second half of the book - which focuses on personal issues of irrationality - with stories of his experiences following a horrendous accident he suffered as a teenager.Here are brief summaries of the chapters.1.
The book is segregated into two sections - the first on "Ways we Defy Logic at Work" (Chapters 1 through 5) and "Ways We Defy Logic at Home" (Chapters 6 through 10).In Chapter 1, Ariely discusses the banking meltdown of 2008 and posits that huge bonuses don't work to incent better performance.
Ariely wrote: "The threat of revenge can serve as an effective enforcement mechanism that supports social cooperation and order."In Part II (defying logic at home), there are some very interesting chapters on adaptation - how we get used to things and rationalize both bad and good situations.
Rather than simply reporting on the research of others, the author himself conducted the many psychology experiments described in his book.
The author clearly describes the motivations behind his experiments.
Ariely does not try to hide the results that contradict his hypotheses; instead, he uses these results as a stepping stone to additional experiments and research.Ariely covers a wide range of topics, and each topic is intensely interesting.
Ariely's clever experiments shed a lot of light on these issues.I did not give the book five stars, because I felt that the book devotes too much space to the author's traumas during his lengthy recovery from his injuries.
I have read the three books by Dan Ariely, Preidctably Irrational, The Upside of Irrationality and The Honest Truth About Dishonesty.
After reading all the three books, I have this feeling that the examples used, the experiments mentioned and some of the themes are starting to repeat in different places.
After all we are all humans.I give a four star rating for Predictably Irrational and the Honest Truth About Dishonesty.
People like Steven Levitt, dan Ariely, Richard Wiseman, Barry Schwartz have taken their turns in writing books in these areas.
یه کتاب خیلی خوب و پر از آزمایش در حوزه رفتارهای انسانی. مثل انتقام و سازگاری و جذابیت و چندتای دیگه. دن اریلی تو این کتاب خیلی جالب در مورد رفتارها حرف زده . از خودش هم که نصف بدنش سوخته، جاهایی در مورد سوختگی شدیدش حرف میزنه. با خوندن این کتاب کمی با فضای اقتصاد رفتاری آشنا میشین. ترجمه این کتاب رو خوندم و به نظرم ترجمه خوبی نبود.
כמו ״לא רציונלי ולא במקרה״ גם כאן אריאלי לא מאכזב. תובנות מעניינות בליווי ניסויים נהדרים, והרבה נגיעות אישיות מנסיונו של אריאלי. מצויין!
به خاطر شرح طولانی نحوه آزمایش ها کتاب خسته کننده ای بود
The author-persona --a self-deprecating, humorous Israeli-American academic who suffered a terrible accident in his youth-- weaves himself into the the different chapters about topics as diverse as the effectiveness of large bonuses to achieve better performance, revenge as a motivator in client-company interactions or our irrational affection toward objects we assemble ourselves.I am a layman who is a fan of behavioral economics, so Ariely is preaching to the converted and I am therefore inclined to give a positive rating, although sometimes the fluffiness of a book that can be read in under five or six hours makes you long for such a brilliant author to wade into slightly more controversial territory or for his "author-character" to become a little more provocative.
Dan Ariely is one of my favorite non-fiction writers, so I was excited to find out that he'd come out with a new book, The Upside of Irrationality, and frustrated that I had to wait so long for it to be available at my library.
So if you want to be happy, space out or interrupt your happy experiences (don't outfit your new apartment all at once, but buy one thing at a time after the thrill of the last one has faded) and plow through your bad experiences all at once (don't take breaks when you're paying taxes, cut your extra budget items all at once).Also in the second half, Ariely discusses the dating market.
Ariely's a great writer, and I love reading about behavioral economics and human irrationalities.
Kendisi benim durumuma muhtemelen yine bir teori ile açıklık getirirdi -hatta onun yerine ben söyleyeyim- ve bu da "azalan marjinal fayda kanunu - law of diminishing marginal utility" olurdu.Bir kez daha anladım ki, bir yazar aynı veya benzer konularda seri halinde kitap yazıyorsa sizin bir önceki kitabını birkaç gün önce okuyup hemen bir diğerine geçeceğinizi öngörmüyor.
Elbette yeni bir çok şey öğrendim ama muhtemelen birkaç ay sonra okusam daha bir keyif alırdım.Yine de hakkını vermek lazım , yaklaşık beş yıl sonra kişisel gelişim kitaplarına olan bakışımı değiştiren kendisine hürmeten bu kitaba - birkaç ay sonra okumuş gibi yaptım :) - yine hak ettiği yıldızı esirgemedim :)Kitapta en güzel olan kısım iş ve ev yaşamında alışılagelmiş mantığın dışına çıkarak nasıl daha başarılı ve mutlu oluruz bunun yollarının anlatıldığı bölümler oldu.
One group watched the toys being dismantled then used the same pieces for the same project.
The other group watched the assembled project placed out of eyesight while they continued their building.
One group (guess which one) gave up much sooner than the other.The first half of the book covers the world of work.
The second half covers the workings of assortative mating, adaptation, online "dating" and determines success rate, and the overall use of questioning our "gut" reactions and feelings.
He believes this is the reason he chose the scholarly route.I love social psychology.
In another life, I'd love to BE a social psychologist.
Dan Ariely's previous book on behavioral economics, Predictably Irrational was fantastic.
Or how it could if we let it.Like in his last book, Ariely draws from a deep well of research conducted by himself and his colleagues in order to provide context for everything he discusses.
Every chapter contains descriptions of scientific research, but it's almost all really interesting and takes you to conclusions that will stick with you.So while I still think Predictably Irrational is the better of the two books because it's more interesting and instructuve to see how people fail than to see how they might succeed, The Upside of Irrationality is still a very quick and very interesting read.
I did NOT like this book. This is one of a long line of behavioral-economic-statistics books a la Tipping Point and Blink, but is not well written and comes late in the game. At times (many times) Dan Ariely uses "research" consisting of a handful of young people, collected from the not-so-diverse environment of his local Starbucks. He asks them to complete 5 min tasks and then makes widespread generalizations about human behavior. It seems as though the author is trying to cash in on American's trend of eating up books on this subject. Fail.
โดยทัวไปนักเศรษฐศาสตรคิดวา มนุษยมีเหตุผล... แตในบางครังมนุษยกทำตัวไรเหตุผลคะ หนังสือเลมนีกลาวถึง “ความไรเหตุผล” วา อาจจะไมใชสิงทีเลวรายเสมอไป ในบางครังความไรเหตุผลทำใหมนุษยสัมผัสถึงคุณคาของงานทีทำ ยินดีทีจะไววางใจผูอืน ปรับตัวเขากับสภาพแวดลอมใหม ๆ เหนอกเหนใจผูอืน.....ผูเขียน Dan Ariely เปนศาสตราจารยสาขาเศรษฐศาสตรเชิงพฤติกรรมและจิตวิทยาทีมหาวิทยาลัยดุก สหรัฐอเมริกาคะ คราวทีแลวอานหนังสืออาจารยฝังอังกฤษมาละ วันนีเปลียนมาฝังอเมริกาบาง.หนังสือคลายกับ The Happiness Manual พฤติกรรมความสุข คะ มีลักษณะเป
แต่ในบางครั้งมนุษย์ก็ทำตัวไร้เหตุผลค่ะ หนังสือเล่มนี้กล่าวถึง “ความไร้เหตุผล” ว่า อาจจะไม่ใช่สิ่งที่เลวร้ายเสมอไป ในบางครั้งความไร้เหตุผลทำให้มนุษย์สัมผัสถึงคุณค่าของงานที่ทำ ยินดีที่จะไว้วางใจผู้อื่น ปรับตัวเข้ากับสภาพแวดล้อมใหม่ ๆ เห็นอกเห็นใจผู้อื่น.....ผู้เขียน Dan Ariely เป็นศาสตราจารย์สาขาเศรษฐศาสตร์เชิงพฤติกรรมและจิตวิทยาที่มหาวิทยาลัยดุ๊ก สหรัฐอเมริกาค่ะ คราวที่แล้วอ่านหนังสืออาจารย์ฝั่งอังกฤษมาละ วันนี้เปลี่ยนมาฝั่งอเมริกาบ้าง.หนังสือคล้ายกับ The Happiness Manual พฤติกรรมความสุข ค่ะ มีลักษณะเป็นการเล่าถึงการทดลอง การวิจัยต่าง ๆ ที่ตอบคำถามที่น่าสนใจ โดยเลือกประเด็นที่ไม่เป็นไปตามเหตุผลธรรมดา เช่น การให้โบนัสที่เพิ่มขึ้นโดยทั่วไปน่าจะจูงใจให้คนทำงานดีขึ้น แต่ผลกลับออกมาว่า ถ้าโบนัสหรือรางวัลมากเกินไปกลับทำให้การทำงานออกมาแย่ลง คนเราชอบความสะดวกสบายจึงน่าจะชอบสินค้าที่สำเร็จรูปและใช้งานได้ทันทีแต่ทำไมการเพิ่มความยุ่งยากลงไปในสินค้าและบริการสักนิดช่วยให้ลูกค้ารักสินค้ามากขึ้น เช่น การต่อเฟอร์นิเจอร์อิเกีย การทำอาหารกึ่งสำเร็จรูป.เนื้อหามีประโยชน์ สามารถเอามาปรับใช้ในชีวิตได้ ทั้งในทางส่วนตัว การบริหารงานบุคคลและธุรกิจ เช่น ซากิเคยต้องทำ Presentation ซึ่งตั้งใจทำมาก ๆ และมันเป็นงานด่วน ถึงขั้นอดหลับอดนอนเลยทีเดียว สุดท้าย เจ้านายไม่ได้ใช้ค่ะ เพราะเรื่องนั้นไม่ได้นำมาพูดในที่ประชุม รู้สึกเฟลมาก...
อาจเปลี่ยนเป็นการชี้ให้เห็นถึงคุณค่าของงานที่ทำ แม้ไม่ได้ใช้แต่มันก็มีประโยชน์ในบางแง่มุม.เมื่อเทียบกับ The Happiness Manual พฤติกรรมความสุข เล่มนี้ยาว อธิบายละเอียดและวิเคราะห์ได้เข้าใจกว่า ประเด็นหลักมีเพียง 11 ประเด็น โดยหนังสือยาวถึง 350 หน้า (และค่อนข้างอ่านได้ช้า) ในขณะที่พฤติกรรมความสุขมี 15 ประเด็น แต่ยาวแค่ 168 หน้า เวลาอ่านเล่มนี้รู้สึกเข้าใจในแต่ละประเด็นได้ดีกว่า และจำได้ด้วยว่าอ่านอะไรไป 555 The Happiness Manual มีเนื้อหาที่ตัดเร็วมากในแต่ละหัวข้อ จึงมีประเด็นหรือเนื้อหาเยอะแยะไปหมด ยังไม่ทันอินก็เปลี่ยนบทเสียแล้ว….
Dan Ariely เขียนหนังสือขายหลายเล่ม จึงอาจมีประสบการณ์มีเทคนิคที่ดีกว่าค่ะ และผู้แปลก็แปลได้ลื่นไหล อ่านสนุก.แนะนำว่า ถ้าสนใจเศรษฐศาสตร์พฤติกรรม ซึ่งศึกษาเกี่ยวกับพฤติกรรมของมนุษย์ที่ส่งผลต่อการตัดสินใจ ลองอ่าน “เหตุผลที่ไม่ควรมีเหตุผล” เลยค่ะ....
สนุกและได้ประโยชน์อย่างแน่นอน.คะแนน 9/10 (ยังรู้สึกว่าอ่านหนังสือเศรษฐศาสตร์พฤติกรรมมาไม่มากพอ ยังหวังว่าจะเจอเล่มที่ ว้าว กว่านี้ค่ะ)ติดตามรีวิวของซากิและเพื่อน ๆ ได้ที่FB Page : Rook a bead ค่ะ
A quick read, The Upside of Irrationality isn't too substantial if you've already read Predictably Irrational. Many examples are recycled and I felt unsure if this was the same book I had already read. It's still enjoyable in that behavioral economics style of feeling that you've learned something without diving into an overly dense book, and Ariely does have a lot of intelligent commentary. If this wasn't one of the only unread works downloaded onto my iBooks and I wasn't stuck on a 9 hour flight, I probably wouldn't have set aside time for this book.
Ariely has a knack for making me reevaluate how I act and consider things. After Predictably Irrational left me in awe, The Upside of Irrationality comes to confirm that Ariely is a top-notch social scientist and is worthy of being revered as such.
В большинстве случаев, в книге описываются довольно важные явления, для общества старше средних веков. Некоторые выводы вертелись в голове, но не было под них аргументации.
Dan Ariely’s books are always a delight to read. In the Upside of Irrationality, Ariely talks about the situations wherein no matter how rational we think of ourselves, we are always acting based on our pre conceived biases and notions. He also highlights how such acts sometimes fall into the right place in the long run. Being emotionally driven is not a very bad thing after all! Like the rest of his books, I’ll rate it as a must recommended read.

Book consists of a number of examples, each illustrated by social psych experiments.- performance vs compensation is a U-shaped curve.
Similarly, people in a word-counting exercise performed much lower when either they did not put their name on their work, or when their work was immediately shredded (optimum performance was when their name was on the work, and filed away).
Study showed that happiness in UK was correlated to increases in salary, not absolute salary level- People of differing attractiveness levels adapt by altering their criteria.
Dan Ariely,a great teacher,writer and,above all,a leading figure in the fields of social science and
Dan Ariely has divided the books into two broad parts: Part 1- The unexpected way we defy logic at work and Part 2- The unexpected way we defy logic at home.
Each part has five chapters covering five different areas where so called rational human being behaves irrationally.Why and bonuses work in motivating employees?
Do people satisfy themselves with compensation despite having no attachment for the work they are performing?
However, the beauty of the book is the gamut of experiments conducted to validate the logical aspects of irrationality.
Dan Ariely adds his own experiences, esp.
The Upside of Irrationality - Dan Ariely read, March 2012 ****I enjoy reading Dan Ariely's books. This is what I took away from his latest book:Labor and Love• The effort that we put into something does not just change the object. It changes us and the way we evaluate that object. • Greater labor leads to greater love. • Our overvaluation of the things we make runs so deep that we assume that others share our biased perspective. • When we cannot complete something into which we have put great ef
This is what I took away from his latest book:Labor and Love•	The effort that we put into something does not just change the object.
•	Our overvaluation of the things we make runs so deep that we assume that others share our biased perspective.
•	When we cannot complete something into which we have put great effort, we don’t feels so attached to it.
•	Once we feel that we have created something, we feel an increased sense of ownership—and we begin to overvalue the usefulness and the importance of “our” ideas.•	Things can go badly when we become too attached to our own ideas.
A series of hypotheses with regards to human behavior under the control of psychological quirks such as revenge, self-herding, etc.I found the topics mostly amusing and practical.
I also felt that the book is very well-written with a nice sense of humor.
The author also opens up about his experience through a terrible accident and how he recovered.Although this book is written after the author's previous book (Predictably Irrational), it is a seperate matter and the name of that book is mentioned only twice.In the end I recommend this book to all people who are interested in social economics and would like to learn more about human behavior.
A fantastic psychology book backed up by legitimate experiments!Unlike some psychology writings,Tthe Upside of Irrationality uses the scientific method and carefully designed experiments to validate (or refute) the hypothesis of the author/psychologist/scientist.
The experiments were all simply explained and then the data was correlated with the final findings.
This book is a refreshing change from today's world of rhetoric and inane internet commenting backed up solely by people's biased opinions.
The principles explained were interesting, engaging, and thought-provoking.
Dan Ariely comes off as a true expert in his field and this book makes readers (or at least this one) want to read more of his material.
