https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/32142.The_Jackal_s_Head
The protagonist's future love interest chokes her until she passes out, because he wants her to stop talking. Her other male companion on the expedition shakes her and threatens to spank her. After she is brutally attacked, she blames herself for provoking the man. I kept wondering if I were somehow misinterpreting things, it was so unbelievably terrible.If this is your first Elizabeth Peters book, don't let it put you off trying her other works. The Amelia Peabody series is excellent, and thankfully a lot more feminist than this parade of normalized abuse.
Published 1968 and unfortunately not Peters’ best work, without her trademark feminism nor quirky characters. Extra star for tomb description. Sometimes I wonder why they republished these when she got popular - these are formulaic and conservative even for the time. Zero chemistry between the heroine and love interests. This reads like a Harlequin draft of some of her better work.
Intelligence, knowledge of a subject, and calm are the engrossing way to save any protagonist; no implausible happenstance here.I give four stars because one secondary character was written as too horrid a personage, dissimilar to the gruff Radcliffe in Barbara's Amelia Peabody series, who has a loving nature with family.
Her writing of early scenes of this novel disgusted me, actually, with her thinking it all right to have a character who strangles the protagonist until she is about to black out; as if not killing her all the way makes this acceptable.
*Spoilers*Much as I enjoyed the idea of discovering Akhenaten's tomb, the romance really bothered me in this one. John is extremely controlling, doesn't listen to Althea at all, and gets so angry with her that he chokes her till she blacks out. How the ever loving hell is that supposed to be romantic!?!?!?!?
This is an early Peters, written before the Amelia Peabody books were begun.
It's interesting to see in it the seeds of the later series - this book visits many of the same places, including the Winter Palace and Gurnah.
Reading it that way may be more fun than reading it for straight romantic suspense, because it's only partly successful as such, as Peters hadn't yet reached her strengths as a writer.
Still it's not a bad book, only suffers in comparison with her later work.
Fans of Mary Stewart's romantic suspense might like this.
This is a very early Elizabeth Peters thriller, so don’t expect Amelia Peabody for a heroine or Ms. Peters' trademark humor. This book’s heroine is the type who has the reader thinking “Don’t open that door” and “Don’t go down that passage” as she flounces off to prove her independence and gets into a fix requiring the hero to come to the rescue. The strongest part of the book is the Egyptian setting and archaeological background.
This is an older book, written back in the sixties. Tommy (a female) travels to Egypt to clear her father from charges made 10 years ago that he was selling antiquities. The truth was that he had discovered an unknown tomb. Tommy strives to find the tomb, find out who is buried there and find the bad guys.
I loved it.. i have read it 3 times over the years i always enjoy the plots twist the characters are enjoyable they keep the story line moving with all the excitement and historic land marks i am a big Elizabeth Peters fan she got me hook after i finished this book a few years ago :)
In a lot of ways, this book reads like a primer for the later Vickie Bliss novels.
Althea (or Tommy) Tomlinson grew up in Egypt with her archeologist father.
Tommy's father died in an accident shortly thereafter, leaving her an orphan at age 15.
But when she receives a cryptic letter from her father's Egyptian friend/dig worker, she knows she has to return and face her past as well as her father's dishonesty and death.
Finding passage to Egypt in the company of a rich man's daughter, Tommy soon finds herself in the middle of a mystery, surrounded by people she hasn't seen in 10 long years.
But the setting was interesting and you can tell that Peters knows her subject (Egyptian archeology).
A little Gothic for my tastes, but a lot of fun, especially since the lost treasure sought in this story is still lost in real life! Also includes a delightful aside about the state of slacks in the late sixties.
There is something slightly addictive about Peters' novels!
Almost a romance
Part of that is probably because Tommy isn't actually being chased most of the time, until she gets out and Hassan is out there waiting.
I also don't know what to do with John's reaction to Tommy saying a few things were destroyed when she was rolling around with Hassan in the tomb.
Tommy actually says something like "to use a euphamism" what telling Dee to stop flirting with Hassan.
While checking out library books by authors with a "P" last name, I discovered this classic. Written by an Egyptologist, I found the scenery and archaeology fascinating - I've been to many of the sites she mentions, and it brought back fond memories. I did enjoy the story although it was not as captivating/engaging as I had hoped. I'm not sure I'll read more.
And things really start going downhill from there when the man who got her father exiled, John, barges into her hotel room pretty pissed that she’s back in Egypt.
And things really start to get insane when more people start getting hurt or go missing.One of my major pet peeves with this book was that we had a Jack and a John.
One of the other things that bothered me in this story and is a major factor that I know would bother a lot of other people is under the spoiler thing, so high light or whatever to see it.Now for the good part, the "what I loved part." No one writes mysteries in Egypt better than Peters does.
Althea (Tommy) Tomlinson, Egypt; gently humorous suspenser.
Early Elizabeth Peters suspenser, set in Egypt, nicely pressages her Amelia series which comes about seven years later: a feisty archeologist/spunky female and mean-mouthed HeMan/archeologist (secretly in love with the heroine), survives hunting for secret tombs, lots of deviltry and theivery, and murder.
Good stuff, especially given it was only her fourth novel, and one of her earliest to use Egypt as a background for fiction; up to that point she had been writing romantic suspensers set in the USA and nonfiction about Egypt.
It has elements of adventure (trying to find ancient tombs of Egypt), mystery (will the tomb of Queen Nefertiti be found and who will find it) and romance (who will Tommie end up with at the end of the story.) It tells of a young woman who returns to Egypt after being gone for 10 years to clear her father’s name of a career ending crime of trying to sale ancient Egyptian artifacts.
While this book wasn't one of the best I've ever read, it kept me entertained and in suspense throughout the entire novel.I just love how Peters' had Althea aka Tommy interact with the other characters.
I was taken aback by how loud John was, and how flirty Mike was, despite being the 'bad guys' in the first section of the novel.
They interacted so closely with Tommy that it was a little strange, considering most people don't interact with the 'bad guys' like that in many novels that I have read.
I couldn't help but enjoy her sarcasm and wit, along with her healthy thinking mind.
the western cliffs, retaining the last of the fading light, shone faintly luminous, like rose-gold specters of themselves." (page 10)"For most people, I suppose, the word 'valley' conjures up pictures of green fields backed by hills, verdured and soft, with a placid river winding between grassy banks.
No seed of grass or flower finds sustenance there, and the only relief for eyes wearied by yellow brown rock is the brilliant blue of the sky above." (page 22)"Hate is a destructive emotion, but it does not destroy the object of hatred.
It destroys the one who hates." (page 34)
As a detective or suspense novel it was OK, just OK.
Her adversary, the ex-boss of her father proved to be strong, well defined character that proved to be another catalyst that hurled the story forward.
But intrigue, suspense and waiting for the big "gotcha moment" never really arrived.
It more or less just rolled itself out casually and then had the heroine scrambling to bring the book to an exciting conclusion.
Yet the ending did leave me to ponder the big question of age differences in heroine and adversary.
Now that was the only big mystery for me.
It's definitely not Elizabeth Peters' best, but it's interesting because of being her first book and setting up a lot of the tropes she later uses so well in the Amelia Peabody series.
I think what I like best about her Egypt books is the way the setting is almost a character...and not in a boring, five pages of description kind of way.
And I think I might have read this book before too because I had a sudden burst of insight about who the bad guy was near the beginning with no particular reasoning behind it.
Okay, so I'm hooked on Elizabeth Peters, and I haven't even read one of her Amelia Peabody series.
The Jackal's Head was first published nearly 45 years ago, and although a couple of the social references are dated, the writing is vivid.
No one smokes any more, for instance, and I don't know when I last wore a Dacron dress, but the emotions are nearly touchable, the main character's self-deprecation and sense of humor make her feel as close as a new friend.
I don't think I've ever given an Elizabeth Peters book less than 4 stars, but I can't give this one anymore than two.
There are some good sequences of action, but the characters are inconsistent and, most importantly, unlikeable.
The plot is unbelievable and jerky.
Dialogue is so irritating it made me wince.
And most importantly, this didn't happen.
The particular tomb discussed has never been found.
All of the Amelia Peabody series was set around actual Egyptian discoveries and the real people who made them -- this one is completely fabricated.
Sigh, hope it doesn't happen again.
Not a huge fan of the ending but it was familiar in the predictability I've come to expect from the romances of Elizabeth Peters. The heroine, incongruously nicknamed "Tommy", has returned to Egypt after 10 years with some misguided notion of avenging/solving her father's mysterious disappearance. There's intrigue, several deaths and attacks, and romance. It was also written in the 70's and therefore somewhat dated but still entertaining. Elizabeth Peters is the best writer of archaeological digs in Egypt. They're somewhat romanticized but generally, as seen through the eyes of the heroine-narrator, fairly pragmatically described.
I suspected the ending but was still surprised when it all went down. A good 24 hrs after I've finished and I'm still not sure how I feel about it! I was hoping for a change from the EP archetypical "I am a stubborn, independent woman & I will fall in love with the first macho young art historian or archeologist that I exchange harsh words with" but this was not the change I was looking for. Still, the book was worth 4 stars because of the suspense, plot twists, and witty dialect! Maybe the ending will grow on me...
Good light entertainment set around a scenario (the discovery of the tomb of Akhenaten and Nefertiti) which is both dramatic and seemingly plausible (mostly, anyway). The aspects which detract from my enjoyment are, first, that one character is larger than life, and second, that the narrator spends a lot of time criticizing (even condemning) herself, but depending on one's tastes, these could make the book more enjoyable for others. The mystery is particularly well done, with a revelation that caught me totally by surprise but was obvious in retrospect.
Elizabeth Peter's first book published in 1968 shows the promise she will fulfill in the Amelia Peabody series.
Althea Thomlinson comes back to Egypt 10 year after she left at the age of 17.
She hopes to clear her father's name.
He was disgraced for trying to sell fake antiquities--and died soon after in a crash.
Dr. John McIntire is head of the Luxor Institute, and he is a template for Emerson in the Amelia Peabody series.
And Althea and John play cat and mouse with each other and some killers.
Just finished the audio book of this novel I first read decades ago.
I remembered very little except that (view spoiler)[one of the archaeologists the heroine hangs with ended up being one of the bad guys and one turns out to be the love interest.
(hide spoiler)] It is a credit to Peters that she kept me guessing as to which one.
As always Peters' wryly humorous voice shines through and is very enjoyable.
It left me wishing that she had written a sequel featuring the two main characters.
I wanted a lot more writing devoted to their relationship as it is an intriguing match up.
