https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/300650.On_Becoming_Baby_Wise
So she turns to older, more experienced mothers who all but thrust this book into her hands and begin making the promises.Your child will sleep through the night at eight weeks if you follow this book.You won't have breastfeeding issues.Your child will be settled and happy.You will be a good mother.The book is full of advice.
Demand feeding would destroy breastfeeding, spoil him and have him feeding from her constantly until he controlled her completely.Despite having a natural, drug-free, complication-free birth, they keep her in hospital for five days, refusing to let her go home because she is clearly depressed, not coping and struggling to care for her newborn who begins losing weight, cries inconsolably and struggles to settle.
But taking it all in moderation...the thing I learned (and still remember from the book) and used with my 3rd & 4th child are these: The first thing you teach your child is how to eat and sleep.
Eventually, they never fell asleep as they were eating.The other thing I learned is that babies can learn to go to sleep on their own without any props (being fed, rocking, bouncing, etc.) A baby can learn to comfort his/herself and learn to go to sleep on their own.
If you feed them every 2 or 3 hours (depending on what their needs are) in the day, they will not need to eat as much at night.

I can see the appeal of it - "training up a child" to be a good obedient Christian and so on - and there is nothing more seductive to a new parent of the promise of a good night's sleep - but the methods outlined in the book go against all mainstream medical advice, not to mention common sense.
Babies in the United States have developed a serious condition called Failure To Thrive (basically not gaining weight at a rate that supports healthy growth, and not meeting age appropriate developmental and emotional milestones) after their parents have followed the methods outlined in this book (very rigid scheduled feeding, lack of comforting, very little physical stimulus, etc).
This is a completely distorted and extremist view of Attachment Theory, which really just states that babies are trustworthy to know what they need and that especially when they are very young, if they seem upset, there is something upsetting them and it’s worth looking into instead of blowing off your child’s needs and assuming they are just being controlling and ruining your life.Extreme #2 was clock-ruled parenting and is presented by the BabyWise book as follows: schedule, schedule… RIGID schedule.
The clock is in charge, and you must be available again at 11am.The BabyWise program describes itself as a happy medium between these extremes that puts the parent (not the baby or the clock) in the driver's seat.
We started Babywise with Lily when she was two weeks old--basically, we started giving her life a consistent pattern of feeding, having waketime, then napping.
The big difference between this and the way that most babies naturally operate is that babies like to fall asleep eating.
Three weeks in, we still have a ways to go on napping, but the night pattern is going great.
Like any parenting book, you want to tweak it or just use what works for you and your family.
For us,the rhythm that this style of parenting affords to a family is good for everyone's mental health and makes me feel like I have a regular routine I can work with.
I'd rather see some proof how this theory is specifically failing.- the assumption that any approach that differs from their's is no good, that anyone who doesn't push for independence is doing their child a complete disfavor, and claiming (more or less) that other nations in less developed countries are handling things no different, and if they do only because they must (not because it's maybe possible to be extremely nurturing and STILL raise a functional, happy, secure, content child).- While they do mention that you should respond to hunger cues of your child, and figure out if something is wrong if your child is hungry every 20 minutes, this point is not very clearly made, and rather nebulous amongst their routine feeding suggestions.
People either love this book or loathe it.
I don't get it when people are like, "Oh, this book pushes extremes!
And, if you're going to extremes and neglecting or keeping your kids on a rigid schedule I think you didn't read the book very carefully.
I'm no baby expert, but I know that as an elementary school teacher, and a human being, children DO work better with structure and a routine.
I read this book and took it for what it was: advice.
Just a general outline, and it's worked well for me.
The advice in this book is harsh and without compassion for children.
I think his response to baby's hunger is in effect answering the cry for food with, "Here: eat this stone, kid." Jesus had compassion on hungry adults.
God the Father had compassion on the children of Israel.
He pities His children when they cry to Him for help.
Some of them are criers, and you have to learn which cries to respond quickly to.
Some of them are not criers, and when they do cry, you know they have a real need.
And if your baby is hungry, feed him, Mom!
They aren't trying to torment you when they wake up in the middle of the night.Needless to say, when I have kids, there's no way I'm taking this guys advice!
I can hear a Greek chorus crying out, "You don't know what it's like!"But mostly, it's the babies I empathize for.
I feel bad thinking about them crying for the attention they need and being ignored because someone like Ezzo say it's the Christian way to raise children.I say it's more Christian to follow your instincts and listen to someone who actually knows about babies (and whose children like him) like Sears.
After reading that the American Academy of Pediatrics has criticized this book (and even linked it to specific cases of babies' deaths and malnutrition/dehydration cases), I picked it up just to take a look.
(Couldn't bring myself to read very much of it.) But I read enough to notice plenty of errors on a basic biological level; did we forget that feeding schedules have been proven to be the absolute worst thing for breastfeeding babies??
Babies need to eat when they're hungry, and they know their own bodies and their own needs--putting infants on feeding schedules can lead to dehydration and even death.
scariest book ever created. the authors are not professionals, doctors, have experience...they are just pulling out this advice from their nether-regions and testing to see who is gullible enough to listen. if you want to estrange your children, read this book. if you want to create a fearful environment for your child, read this book. this book has also been linked to thousands of deaths due to dehydration and malnutrition. it is pure danger and should be removed from all shelves and burned in a pyre.
This is the 2nd time I've read it and wonder what is creating the hoopla!Why I believe this book is for natural parenting and helpful:- The parent decides when to feed the baby based upon the baby's need.
I think our bodies adjust if we have a routine and plus 2-3 hours - 4 when they are older - gives your body time to produce rich healthy milk for your baby!Give this book a chance, you might really enjoy the studies mentioned and the common sense approach.I will also say that we co-slept with our son until he was sleeping through the night.
Babywise was recommended by a friend of mine who had a baby a couple of years ago and swore by the 'scheduling' in the book (though the book would probably call it putting baby on a 'routine'--I think it is scheduling!) Whether or not you like the book or find it useful will probably depend on your style of parenting, temperament, and expectations.
The more parenting I do, the less I like this book.
BABIES ARE DIFFERENT...I think the babywise style is a little too cookie-cutter.
3. Not taking into account different parenting styles.
Who wants their baby to sleep through the night and go to sleep without any fuss?
Then you should read this book!
I have 5 kids and they all slept through the night between the ages of 6 weeks and 3 months.
This works for breast and bottle feeding mothers alike.
(I've done it both ways) They also go to sleep on their own - we just lay them down in the crib and say good-night and leave the room.
They may fuss for a few minutes, but that's it.
WARNING: THIS BOOK IS DANGEROUSIn no way am I condemning parents who took some of the ideas and adapted it to work for them, but I do feel I need to explain more now.
Using these techniques interfered with my body's ability to make milk, my bonding with my firstborn, and put an enormous strain on my marriage.OTOH, some children and moms will fall right into the schedule, and the book will work for them.
I know that some moms would NEVER cosleep, or wear their babies, or any of the things that worked for me, and they still have great children and wonderful relationships with them.
Don't follow this book's advice.
Ezzo, like Michael and Debi Pearl write child abuse...
I mean child raising manuals in which they use religion as an excuse to torment babies.
These methods can and will cause failure to thrive and a lack of attachment.
If you don't believe me, read this site before you use these methods on your newborn http://www.ezzo.info/resources/timeli...It's a horrible idea.
Newborn babies need to be held and cuddled.
They do not need strict schedules, they need you.
Toss this book and pick up your baby when they need it.
This book tells you to schedule your baby and in a few weeks your baby will sleep through the night.
First and foremost the American Academy of Pediatrics as well as organizations like the La Leche League endorse demand feeding not scheduled feeding.
Secondly, I have a real concern that moms will feel like they aren't doing something right when they can't get their newborn on a schedule.
But once I took the pressure off myself me and my newborn settled much easier into a routine and by 6 weeks he was sleeping 5-6 hours a night and by 8 weeks even longer.
There is an amusing amount of controversy over this book, considering it is pretty limited and practical.
It is not a comprehensive parenting book, but it does give a good starting place for the mother bringing home a newborn.
It gives a nice general structure for feeding, sleeping and playtime and is not as rigid as critics imply.
The one downside of this book is that it says that if you maintain a structure as they recommend, your baby will sleep through the night very soon, which is not always the case.
It's still a helpful book.
No, just no. I absolutely do not recommend this book. Forget what the book is actually teaching and just know this one thing new mothers do not have time for this wordy mess!I do not agree with Ezzo's methods. I am sure it works for some, but it just made me more insecure and had me questioning every thing. Ezzo's methods go against every maternal instincts I have.
The book recommends focusing on "full feedings" with new babies, and as this was the advice I left the hospital with, I found it to be helpful and relevant.
I recommend this book to every new parent I know, and I accept that not everyone is going to love it as much as I do, but I hardly find the advice in this book to result in malnourished, maltreated, and disengaged children.
My sister in-laws raised their children on Baby Wise and they are some of the most happy, well behaved kids I know.
I absolutley love what these books have to offer, and find them to be right on.
I studied infancy and early childhood development, so I didn't go into these books blindly, but found them to work really well, and to be on track with the long terms goals were are trying to help our children accomplish.
And if you read the sites for their study work, it's amazing.
I can't stress how helpful these were.
All the work is in the beginning, and you will be loving it when you kid is sleeping through the night long before others!
I worked hard for those nights!!
I read this book when my daughter was maybe a week old.
When you're in that state, the promises this book makes are not just appealing, they are like siren calls (the Homeric kind).
And some of the prescriptions (like making a newborn wait for a feeding when they show hunger cues) never seemed like a good idea, and luckily we never tried them.Later I found out that the authors don't really have any credentials and that this book has been widely discredited.
I feel like the victim of a classic scam, where I was in a vulnerable state and somebody promised me a too-good-to-be-true solution.
Why would the first thing I do when my child cries is try to feed her?
Babies cry for other reasons!Let your children sleep in their own beds because it is not safe for them in yours.
Now, that will take you down a road to failure to thrive, not to mention sore, bleeding nipples, a hungry baby and worn out momma.BW does have a Christian undertone to it, but even if you are not a believer, is that really a bad thing?
Children learn by example, why not give them a loving one to follow?BW is all about the parent being in control, and reacting appropriately to the situation.
I think people hear it suggests putting babies on a strict four-hour schedule and allowing them to fail to thrive, but it does not do that.
I think I held too strongly to the principles with my first child, and thus was overly rigid, but I have learned to let things go a little and be OK with it if the baby misses its nap because something else is more important (which the book also suggests--being flexible).
Don't believe people who make it sound like this book suggests you should be mean to your baby.
It is a particularly horrible book for the parent of a newborn with colic.
As if you don't feel bad enough that your sweet little newborn is in pain.
This book is probably useful to a baby who just needs a little guidance and a strict schedule.
I would rather my baby trust that I am darn well going to feed him when he is hungry than follow this pre laid out schedule with military precision.Further more it did not seem to make allowances for growth spurts, which healthy babies have.
According to this book, you simply do not feed your growing newborn unless it was TIME.
There is not enough space here to provide the in-depth review this book deserves - others have done that and www.ezzo.info is a good resource.
It is very important to note that Ezzo has no educational background in child development or related field, and the M.A. he holds is from an instituition that gives credit for life experience - he does not hold a bachelor's degree at all.That said - there is accurate information in this book.
The problem is for the reader to find it amongst the flawed information, hypotheses and statistics.
So many moms recommended this book to me as a new mom, and I hated it.
I think the mom's that loved it and claim this method "worked" are moms who had babies naturally inclined to sleep through the night anyway.
She needs all the coddling and love you can give her, especially if she has a hard time sleeping or cries a lot.
Picking up a crying baby doesn't spoil her, it teaches her that when she needs help, Mommy will be there.
Give your baby the credit though, not the book.
If your baby cries, and your heart aches to go get her, then do it!!!!!
I read this between having my first and second babies at the insistence of my SILs... and was not impressed. In my mind, if you can't handle waking up to feed your infant or are bothered by their cries, you probably shouldn't be having a baby. I could see using some of the methods with older babies - like at 9 months or a year - definitely if you're still having trouble with toddlers sleeping through the night, but I think it's too extreme for newborns.
It's also one of several books by these authors, all of which are heavily religious, or promote child rearing techniques based on western theology rather than sound medical advice, something I did NOT realize when gifted this book.
Ignoring hunger cues to train your baby to live by your schedule may sound like a good idea when worded nicely in the pages of a best selling book, but when actually faced with a screaming, starving infant, things are a bit different, and all the idyllic sounding theories become background noise as your child "says" to you "Goddamit I'm HUNGRY!
