https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/676697.Green_Days_by_the_River
I read this book as a part of my Literature class, and I loved every minute I spent with it. The book casts an enlightening spin on a story so enthralling, you have to read it again, and again and again. Its a 5 star simply for being a Caribbean book that I loved :p
Set in Trinidad, he describes in sweet details, about life in the island. The plot revolves around a boy who falls in love with a popular girl and all the drama it entails. It follows him through some years as he grows into early adulthood, and his experiences of being young, loss, and love... and of course blackmail :)An enjoyable book though nothing seems to turn out quite right.
Recently reread this book and I just loved it even more. This was one of my favorite school assigned books. I'm so happy I read this book. Intriguing plot and I love the symbolism in the book :)
However, I have noticed that the great reviews come from people who read him years ago while they were in school, so they are more like "nostalgic memories" rather than "factual reviews".
It's a good book with two stories juxtaposed along, where the sense of place and Trinidadian life come alive on every page.
While planting vegetables and drinking, to name a couple, receive great attention, other moments in Shell's life, which are crucial, are almost completely ignored.
Again, I consider that it is worth being read just for the descriptions of town life and the bush alone.
With the impending release of the movie, "Greens Days by the River" I decided to re-read the book, seeing that I completely forgot exactly what happened.
The first time I did read the book I remembered being curious about the country Trinidad and Tobago- where the novel is set.
Fast forward to 2018 and I am living in said country.
When you are living in a country where the book you're reading is set, it is an entirely different experience- for me, a good one.
Looking forward to seeing the movie.
I read this book in school in 80s and I loved it. I used to long for Literature class so I can lime between the pages with Shellie and Rosalie. It's a book I will have to reread. It's been years!
The author uses the technique of 'omission' (or so the candidates tell me) - which basically means he doesn't write about the best bits.
He goes through all the basic coming of age moments - he can't decide which girl he fancies most, he gets a job, he stops throwing stones at cashews, his Dad becomes ill and he becomes the man of the house, he loses his virginity, he gets drunk, he buys some long trousers - and yet with all of these things going on Anthony never actually describes anything of any interest until the final three chapters when the father of one of his girls gets even.Maybe it's deliberate.
Maybe the candidates are correct and Anthony is cleverly using 'omission'.
I read this book in high school and it's one of those coming of age stories that you don't quite appreciate till in your late teens.For the most part,the writing is comforting and relatable(I'm from the Caribbean) but loses you in some parts. The morals are strong and thought provoking. It's as if you're looking into the lives of your grandparents or parents as they faced tough decisions about love and the life they hoped to lead one day.
Green Days By The River was a great coming of age story. The characters seemed very similar to how boys and girls would be at that time; enjoying simple country life but still being guided by their hormone. I love a good twist, and that certainly happened at the end of the book, in two of Shell's major relationships. Poor Shell was blindsided. His attitude after everything was arranged was a little strange to me; however, I understood he was not thinking of himself.
I read this book when I was very young, and re-read as a teenager, with vastly different interpretations. Any teenager can relate to the experiences of Shell, as he moves into early adulthood. This book also showcases some of the rural aspects of Trinidad, which most people never see.
nice
you have to read this book. It's wonderful and the author had a sense of Caribbean description.
high school was more tollerable with this as a literature book
A remarkably engaging book about Shell, a young boy who has to grow into a man bearing the responsibility of earning a living and casting aside his dreams to support his mother in looking after had s sick father.Along with this, he also experiences love and attraction to two beautiful girls. The sweet innocent love presented in the book will tug at your heart and Shell's journey will most definitely carve a special place within your heart.
Green Days is a lovely coming of age taleA wonderful story with a surprise towards the end. Anthony is a skillful writer and I read every page with glee as I imagined where Shell's "adventures" would lead him. I definitely recommend. Only about 220 pages long and a great summer read
A beautiful Caribbean story about young love! A must read!
Read this in 1990 as part of my reading for CXC literature and I love love love it. The storyline lit up my teenage imagination
A charming and innocent story that carries me back to the days of my youth. Living in Trinidad and Tobago now, I identify with the scenery and cultures that this tale portrays.
👍It was a great read. First book like this I have read and would love a part two to it.
i really want to read this book
This novel took me by surprise.The plot commences with lightness and simplicity, but eventually turns dark and dangerous. The themes of youth, love and confusion are handled well through the eyes of the protagonist Shellie who has bitten off more than he can chew.However, sometimes the narrative style of the novel seemed somewhat juvenile in nature, though it could be effective if the argument is because it is only through the eyes Shellie. Yet, for a seemingly uneducated young man he seems rather articulate in his speech but not his thoughts.
Found this randomly in my house and decided to give it a re-read. This was one of those cxc books we analysed to death in school and I found myself reverting to that analysis when I was reading. Sighs. Memories lol.A good, short read. I loved reading about Trinidad and how places were, the descriptions, the context of growing up, a good throwback read for this month :-)
The character of Shellie displayed the attitude and characteristics of a Trinidadian boy all too well. A very good read indeed from the literary structure to the story-line Mr. Anthony left the reader wishing for more.
I read this book on the heels of a V.S. Naipaul phase to further experience Trinidad. I liked the story. I'm left with a lingering memory of his description of vegetation that I never heard of before, and I'm grateful for that.
This touching coming-of-age story of a teenager who must grow up too fast is a Caribbean classic that fits comfortably within Young Adult (YA) literature. Shell is caught between two girls and the responsibility he must take when his father becomes critically ill. This is truly a timeless book.
I read this book for my literature class many moons ago and fell in love with it's authentic Trinidadian trademarks. A beautiful story of love and friendship that had me wanting more. A must to add to my collection.
As with any locally authored content it was so very refreshing to be able to relate to the characters, their struggles and the various settings. No matter how many times it is re read you appreciation of the story and the effortless way it was written only ever increases.
Comess! Funny how a desire you once had comes back to haunt you! When you get it after you no longer want it and the dream becomes a living nightmare.... Youth and folly can sometimes lead to a lifetime of regret paying for an error made in one minute.
Great Book. Really relates to growing up.
A very interesting book. Really captures the aspects of caribbean life of many people,then and now
