https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/338234.The_Wife_of_Martin_Guerre
True Story, Fictionalised “A stranger… then her loved husband, then a man who might have been Martin’s ancestor but not young Martin Guerre.”This novella was written by an American novelist and published in 1941.
It's quite fun to watch them back to back (though it's many years since I did).Martin and Bertrande are married young.
Shortly after their son, Sanxi, is born, Martin goes away to avoid a dispute with his father, telling Bertrande he will be back in a week or so.

Y la historia, no por ser ya conocida (hay varias versiones cinematográficas; Sommersby es la más popular), deja de ser curiosa e intrigante, pues aunque sabes el final, desconoces los giros de la historia, los detalles que desencadenan el "núcleo" de la tramaMe ha gustado especialmente que la historia se cuente desde la posición de Bertrande -la mujer de Martin Guerre-, que sean sus miedos y expectativas al inicio de su matrimonio; su proceso de maduración y paso a mujer adulta; su asunción del papel de ama de la casa; su verse viuda y saberse, a continuación, que vuelve a tener marido; sus ilusiones y dudas ante esta nueva decisión, las que nos guíen a lo largo del libro.
La familia, los sirvientes y todo el pueblo le reciben con los brazos abiertos y su preciosa mujer le quiere más que nunca, pero ella empieza a ver cosas en él que no encajan y eso la lleva a sospechar que su marido nunca volvió y que el hombre con el que vive y al que ama es un impostor.La autora intenta reproducir lo que ocurrió de forma fiel, al menos, todo lo fiel que se puede ser al relatar algo que pasó 300 años atrás (el juicio se celebró alrededor de 1560).
La situación de Bertrande no es nada facil: se ha enamorado del hombre que se hace pasar por su marido y además el impostor es mucho mejor persona que el de verdad, pero todo no deja de ser un engaño y él un desconocido.
Basically what happens is this: a woman in sixteenth-century France marries this man, Martin Guerre, who is abusive and generally a despicable person.
Most of the rest of the book is then about her struggle to make everyone else realise he's an impostor, even though he's clearly a vast improvement on the man she was married to before, so I personally would be very inclined to bury my doubts.(view spoiler)[Then at the end he's proved to be an impostor because the real Martin Guerre actually returns, and promptly abuses Bertrande anew to thank her for making the impostor's life as hard as possible in spite of what a great guy he was.

Many of us oldsters recall The Return of Marin Guerre, the 1982 film with Gerard Depardieu which details the return of a man to a family he left years earlier.
Few of us know that the film (and its later remake, Sommersby, set in the American Civil War) know that the genesis of the film was the novel The Wife of Martin Guerre, by Janet Lewis.
He and his wife, Bertrande, were married at eleven, though not joined in consummate matrimony till three or four years later.
Finally, he returned to his wife and son.
It's a deceptively slim and simple book which presents a host of ideas relevant to modern times.
Unfortunately, although I was considering assigning the novel for a college reading class, I decided that it really was "beyond" the average student and that I'd better choose another work.
My first thought was that since the book is short and written in fairly simple language (with the exception a handful of terms relating to 16th-century Languedoc and feudal systems), that this would be a relatively easy work.

First published in 1941, The Wife of Martin Guerre has inspired two movies and a nonfiction history book. Yet now it can be difficult to find. Seek it out—it is a gem. This slim volume (109 pages), based on an actual legal trial, is quietly and beautifully compelling. Please see my full review at: http://herstorynovels.com/wife-martin...
I had to read this for school and found it to be so boring and random. At times the descriptions were so detailed that you could skip 2 pages and still be in the same incident, and at other times if you zoned out for even one paragraph you had missed four years! So glad that I will never have to pick up this book again, even if it is a classic!
I loved The Return of Martin Guerre. I like its version of the story better. The look exchanged between the wife and the imposter is heartbreaking. I love that it's a true story.
La gran cuestión que se plantea en la novela es la existencia de líneas rojas cerebrales: lo que nos hace felices está más allá de la línea roja que no podemos traspasar y en esta parte de la línea roja, la que no podemos abandonar, la felicidad es imposible.
Una paradoja insalvable que forma parte de nuestro ADN y, por tanto, un tema universal planteado aquí a partir de un suceso real.
Pero no todas las líneas rojas son causadas por la religión.
I'm surprised at the low rating on goodreads. I read this book in my teens and it left me in a trance for days. The poetic writing style and heartbreaking story was executed with such beauty and grace. I remember the final page was so powerful I struggled to describe my feelings, even now thinking about it there is a lingering sadness..
A beautifully written story of a woman in 16th century France who struggles with perceptions vs. truth. For anyone interested in life and laws of 16th century French peasants, this story provides a better understanding of the culture, religion, laws, and psychological state of a peasant woman struggling to make moral decisions within the constraints of society.
Lewis' writing of this book is, for the most part, straight forward in recounting the trial of Martin Guerre in the 1560s. It was a case of fraudulent identity which Bertrande de Rols, Martin's wife and a character I pity, steadfastly brought to court.The book is easy to read and does not weigh heavy for the reader.
I read this short novel in a B&B while on holiday at Metung. It's a wonderful book about identity, love, and trust. I saw the film too; it was a rare example of the film being as good as the book.
3.5 I'd say. Writing was nothing special but the characterization was interesting. Sort of?
Recommended by my uncle, although I suspect he was talking about her poetry (he usually was).
«¿Y si Martin, el extraño de áspera barba, no fuese el verdadero Martin, del que se había despedido con un beso aquel mediodía al borde del campo recién sembrado?»
Zum Buch:Im sechzehnten Jahrhundert werden Bertrande und Martin mit elf Jahren verheiratet.
Als er sich zehn Jahre später mit seinem Vater überwirft, verlässt er den Hof. Nach sieben Jahren kommt er zurück.
Sieht noch aus wie Martin, aber Bertrande ist sich sicher, er ist nicht ihr Mann ...Meine Meinung:Ich lese abundzu ganz gerne mal einen historischen Roman, aber dieser hier hatte einer Meinung nach einige Stellen, die ich mir so nicht vorstellen kann.
Ich glaube nicht, dass eine Frau damals, vor fast fünfhundert Jahren die Macht hatte, ihren Mann an Hochstapler vor Gericht zu stellen.Dann kam mein Problem mir Kurzromanen hinzu.
I’m almost glad because so many of the books we did read have gone on to become my least favourite – maybe it was the books themselves, maybe it was the way they were taught to us but I can’t deny the pattern.The Wife of Martin Guerre could have been called “The Husbands of Betrande de Rols”.
The story is set in a time when love had little to do with marriage and neither Bertrande or Martin question this.
All she'd said was that she knew it couldn't end well for the characters from the very beginning and as it turns out that's not giving away a single thing.The novella takes place in the 1500s and opens with a new husband (Martin) and wife (Bertrande), both eleven years old, laying chastely in bed together on their wedding night, as the snow blows around the house.
(The one person who wants Bertrande to take Martin to court is the one who stands to gain the most if Martin is a fraud.)The book is based on a real-life French court case.
Janet Lewis is an American author of many poems and novels; the novel to make her name however, was The wife of Martin Guerre; this novel was based on an actual case and trial in a French court.Janet Lewis describes the characters in her book by having the story follow their lives, she describes their appearances by telling the reader how they have changed and what they have changed into.
Janet Lewis writes in third person about the plot and characters of this novel, and though it follows the life of Bertrande, the story skips through the years to avoid boring the reader with unimportant points of time.
This is a lovely novella written with excellent style, set in a prosperous farm on the southern French hillside backing to the Pyrenees mountains, during the mid-sixteenth century with all appropriate customs and living habits of that time and place.Based on a true set of circumstances ending in August of 1560, this tragedy depicts the life of Bertrande de Pols who was betroathed to Martin Guerre when both were age eleven, married at age twenty, after which because of a severe father Martin departed to roam Spain and France for some eight years - returning to his farm and family after he learned of his father's death only as his wife was being tested on her accusation of an importer who was being tried in Toulouse on her accusation that Arnbaud du Tilh had taken over Martin's life and was an unwanted imposter.I do not thank that Ms Lewis should have developed the story in greater depth or length.
As her doubts grow, Bertrande must make a terrible choice: should she reveal the truth, and destroy her happy communal life, or should she continue to live a lie?Bertrande's perspective and her deep spiritual connection to the natural world are lyrically portrayed in passages such as this one, describing her sexual awakening:"But gradually Bertrande's affection for her husband became a deep and joyous passion, growing slowly and naturally as her body grew.
All about her, life flourished and increased itself, in field, in fold, in the rose-flushed bramble stems of spring before the green leaf unfurled, and in the vine leaves of autumn that lay like fire along the corded branches.
Janet Lewis’ The Wife of Martin Guerre is a fictionalized biography of Bertrande de Rols who, years after being abandoned by her husband, challenges the identity of an imposter who skillfully assumes his place.
This would-be master, Arnaud du Tilh, settles into the role of a matured Martin Guerre so convincingly that he surpasses the expectations of many townspeople and succeeds in duping the woman who’s expected to recognize him intimately.
Instead, Bertrande is Lewis’ hero.
She’s portrayed as a dominant-minded woman who, despite popular and political opposition, firmly challenges Arnaud’s identity- a strategy that compromises her public and familial standing.
The story of Betrand de Rols (the titular wife of Martin Guerre) is based on true events, which fascinated de Rols's contemporaries as much as it does us now.
Why did Guerre stay away from his wife and estate so long?
Being a novella, its impressive that such depth was revealed in such a short amount of space.
Lewis' writing is particularly satisfying - each word seems carefully selected, to impart as much information about the narrative events as about Betrand's inner life in only a single paragraph.
If a writer can do that in fewer than a hundred pages then I'm duly impressed!
I had to read it for my Year 12 Literature class and since it is only a very light book, decided to bring it back to Colombia with me where it has served its purpose of a handbag book to read while waiting in long queues.
I like that Janet Lewis used information from a court case to weave a story, showing that inspiration can come from many different sources.
Unfortunately all the character development and descriptions of a time long ago were thrown away with the abrupt ending after the climax which doesn't allow us to further explore some of the issues raised.
A woman, Bertrande, is married and her husband leaves her, after some years later her husband returns.
Eventually she comes to the decision that this man is an imposter and brings him to court to charge him with being an imposter.
I think what makes this a good book is that the imposter is such a better person than her actual husband and I think many want to believe he is the "lost husband".
Is much kinder to his wife, even as she brings charges against him.
Is is interesting to see the struggle within Bertrande as she struggles with what is right.
