https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/201901.Always_Coming_Home
This is only book from Ursula Le Guin I didn't enjoy.
On one hand there is evident effort to create culture of one entire civilization with it's unique culture poetry, folktales, myths, plays and songs and all that in world that used to be technologically advance before catastrophe.
It's something that is extremely hard to do in high quality and thematically consistent but luckily Ursula Le Guin is great writer and manages to pull off something that only few authors could.
I don't care much about poetry, I didn't find most of folktales or plays interesting .
Either as a prequel volume or sequel, depending how you signify what's here.And too Tom LeClair, in his The Art of Excess, places this novel at the end of the Rainbow, as the epilogue of the Systext ::Gravity's RainbowSomething HappenedJ RThe Public BurningWomen and MenLETTERSAlways Coming Homein such a way, so LeClair, that Always Coming Home provides a kind of wholeness of human existence which at first, at the beginning of the rainbow arc, is found torn asunder by Control.
But, like the Amish, Always Coming Home is an exercise of the imagination which goes towards evidence, towards 'proof', that the way things are now is not inevitable and necessary.
It’s more the type of thing you want to learn about after the first bloom has come off the romance but it’s all the better for being an expression of a mature, loving relationship.* I should clarify here that I picked up my copy at a used book store and it didn’t have the accompanying cassettes of Kesh poetry and songs – an early example of interactive literature.** Anthropological Note: The Condor People comprise the culture Le Guin contrasts to the Kesh (primarily through Stone Telling’s story).
A Pitch for GreatnessThis novel seems to be Ursula LeGuin’s pitch for credibility and/or greatness, not just as a science fiction writer, but as a fully-fledged novelist (i.e., not confined to any one genre).You have to wonder whether the exhaustive (and exhausting) effort was worth it, at least partly because I’d argue that she had already achieved her goal in 1969 with  “The Left Hand of Darkness”. My reservations largely relate to the dressings of Post-Modernism that crept into the execution
My reservations largely relate to the dressings of Post-Modernism that crept into the execution of the novel and in my opinion diminish its aspirations to greatness.Nostalgia for An Age Yet to ComeLe Guin explains in “A First Note” that “The people in this book might be going to have lived a long, long time from now in Northern California.”I’m not sure what tense you’d call this, but the catachresis hints at the fundamental premise of the novel.
But it was, and I did, and of course it was well worth the effort.The woman has created an entire culture.
I don't know when I will have enough time to create an entire culture in my own head and then write a novel about it, but the fact that another woman had the time and did it is inspiration by itself.The book is written in little tidbits, a morsel here, part of a story there, then bits of poetry, history, explanations of various aspects of their society...
Though there are normative customs (such as 'people are not property'), enforced by clowns, there is little coercive behavior, and pretty much EVERYTHING is the subject of negotiation and discussion.) There is kinship from both sides (Stone Teller is regarded as a halfling because she has no paternal grandparents to call on, and at one point acquires a 'side grandfather' to help in not only ceremonies but also in material support), but the primary kinship is through the mother.
In a way, I wish I had: there's a lot in it, and a lot to reward a slower, careful reading -- this time I went plunging through it for the narrative, such as it was, enjoying the layers of understanding that came to me, imagining and figuring out what I didn't know.
It's very interesting to read this way: interesting, and frustrating, because like real history, it doesn't always show you the bits you most want to see.Ursula Le Guin's writing is beautiful, as always, and easy to read and understand despite the invented words and concepts.
It's purported to be more like an anthropologist's notebook of field work: a collection of cultural facts, legends, poetry and song, writings--and obliquely, the story of one woman raised among the Kesh people who rebels against their close-knit Valley community and seeks something "outside the world." The "coming home" referenced in the title is her journey of discovery from adolescent rebellion to mature choice-making.
Le Guin's computer-culture is very much of her own time.) Curiously, the Condor seem to be desert nomads; whether this was merely to add a touch of exoticism, or an oblique reference to those countries which provide fossil fuels (and were seen as "the enemy" in the US of the energy crisis), I'm not sure.As a novel it wouldn't work, but then it's not a novel.
The people of the Valley live a largely peaceful, non-hierarchical communal life that prioritizes listening and understanding, and considers being generous synonymous with wealth.
It's fascinating, and I loved the ways the world building was woven into Stone Telling's story, and how the world building sections (hundreds of pages of an anthropologist's notes) enriched my understanding of Stone Telling's sections.
And there are wonderfully meta moments, like this interchange between Pandora the anthropologist and her interview subject, a librarian of the Valley people: Pandora: I never did like smartass utopians.
While I believe LeGuin aims to celebrate this culture, she ends up creating something rather dry and distant.
There's a stiltedness that prevents the reader from really connecting with these people and I think that's a mistake.
It's almost like she would be better suited as a historian or anthropologist -- though this wouldn't allow her to study the future.
It seems like a very strict allegory to the people of our times, but it won't reach many because of its dryness and intricacy.
I respect LeGuin and what she's done, but I wouldn't recommend this book to the average person.
Literature isn’t the alpha and omega of English, and the novel is not the only entry or exit into that particular part of the discipline.But I can’t help it.
I crave semi-linear narratives about a defined and stable group of people.So when Le Guin sets out to deliberately break—well, shatter, really—these conventions with something like Always Coming Home, I can admire her aims even though I’m not particularly enthralled by the result.Far from a novel, Always Coming Home is an intricate collection of texts by and for and about the Kesh, a culture of people inhabiting a Pacific Northwest valley in the far future.
This is a phenomenal work that I feel like I will love even more on rereads.
It is a tough but rewarding work.
There is a narrative in there but it is not straight-forward as much of it is instead told in the form of an anthropology of a future society.
In less skilled hands it would feel appropriative but she manages to develop it all so masterfully that it is very much a unique society handled with care.I feel like calling it Le Guin's Silmarillion because it feels that challenging but wonderful.
I mean if this was a book by David Gemmell or Anne McCaffrey (authors that I love) I might see myself pushing on, almost as if I owed the author.I feel like the author is having a fleet of fancy, writing a book that noone can read in a bizarre 'not really a book' kind of way.
Why are people from non-technologically advanced societies always portrayed as having a greater amount of wisdom than 'us' (the readers)?This book is officially being abandoned and probably added to the bookcrossing pile.
I am feeling rather disheartened by it all (because I was hoping to find another amazing author that I could read).
It took me a really long time to finish this book.
The combination of characters, pieces of culture and storytelling create a whole that is difficult to appreciate if you are too eager to know the outcome and jump over sections of the book that seem unrelated to anything else.
[return][return]I would definitely recommend this book but only for a reader who is able to appreciate the way the story is told as much as the actual main storyline.
Personally, I enjoyed the book so much because it reminded me how important it is to know the context of the story in order to understand why things turn out the way they do.
There isn't really much of a plot, and I was often about to put the book down because I was so bored.
Even if you like Tolkien's History of Middle Earth, you quite possibly won't like this: Tolkien focuses on history (and military and political history in particular) while Le Guin here focuses on sociology and anthropology.If you're completely all right with a brilliant social and anthropological description of culture that does not yet exist, this is likely the book for you.
If that sounds even the slightest bit boring, however, stay away, because the actual 'novel' portion of the book is only about a quarter of its contents.
Napa Valley would be one of the most beautiful places on Earth were it not for its people.
Le Guin fixes this problem with golden descriptive powers and by removing the ugliest part of the place - its current residents.
It's hard to express how much a revelation this is to me, as a current resident and outsider in this place of status and palate and terroir and superfluous French words and Italian Kabbalah.
The only word I ever come to is "iniquity" and this imaginative correction feels gorgeous to me.
LeGuin kitapları okumak zordur. Hep Yuvaya Dönmek de bir o kadar zor bir kitaptı. Elimde bu kadar uzaması tamamen benden kaynaklı. 4 yıldız vermem kitaptan değil benim istediğim gibi okuyamamam dan kaynaklı. Siz siz olun vakti gelmeden bazı kitapları okumayın :)
The one book of her's that gets short shrift, in my opinion, is Always Coming Home, her far post apocalyptic "anthropological study" of the Kesh, descendants of survivors that live in the Na (Napa) valley region of California whose lives are reminiscent of the Coast Miwok Indians who populated the region before the coming of the Europeans.It's no surprise LeGuin used this societal model, as her father, Alfred Kroeber, founded the Department of Anthropology at the University of California, Berkeley and chief among his research were the dwindling native American populations in California as they were being systematically exterminated.
Persevering, however, is very rewarding, as by the end of the more narrative section you are used to seeing terms like heyimas or Blue Clay House or Doctors Lodge, and feel like you've really come to understand the alternative world-view represented by the Kesh.I would suggest skipping around the book, especially if you're not convinced of reading the whole thing; it can be intimidating to contemplate getting through its 500+ pages.
Changed coastlines, changed people, but still people on the coast.
The format of one main tale surrounded by cultural articles gives the etic and emic ethnographic perspective of a time that feels quite real, and familiar.
Portions of this book speak through time and imagination of experience that transcends both.
Nature is nature, people are people, and home is home.
I enjoyed the created world so thoroughly that… okay, confession time… I read aloud every word listed in the glossary.
In my life of reading books with invented glossaries, only J.
I read the entire glossary in a Game of Thrones book, but not aloud in entirety.
What an extraordinary achievement. Not a novel, but a whole history of a people. A future anthropology that reads like the past. Complex, inventive, and beautifully written. One of those reads I didn't want to end, and when it did I wanted to start it all over again.
The most beautiful novel of the late 20th century, the only Utopia I'd like to live in
Guys, it's called an ETHNOGRAPHY. This book is written as an ETHNOGRAPHY which is a research method in ANTHROPOLOGY and social sciences. Don't know how you came up with ETHNOLOGY but I hope it is not a combination of ethnography and anthropology.
The book, therefore, contains life stories, information on Kesh culture, practices, medicine, etc., recipes, poems, Kesh literature, plays, a glossary, pictures, music (the first edition came with a cassette tape and you can buy the CD from the website), etc.I read this in an ecofeminist way, since themes of pollution and genetic mutation run throughout the text, and the longest story in the book clearly deals with issues of feminism and theology (our current culture/ideology vs.
The book is structured around a hinge spiral, which is also the way the Kesh structure their society and provides their primary sacred motif.
The main narrative of the book is the autobiography of Stone Telling, a young woman of the Valley, but her story is broken up with digressions into songs, recipes, rituals, novels and other anthropological observations of her people.
Always so much healthier and saner and sounder and fitter and kinder and tougher and wiser and righter than me and my family and friends."The book is a beautiful example of world-building, based on a deep and lovingly intimate knowledge of the Northern California landscape.
The world unfurls around the edges of Stone Telling's story, alluringly realized and temptingly unfinished.
Very slow (because it's not a novel) but really lovely, and I missed it once I was done.It's the story (or the description, I guess) of a hunter/gatherer society that lives in what was Northern California, in a post-nuclear war future.
I would really like to live there.On a personal note, I started reading this book in mid-July.
About a month later, I was suddenly presented with the opportunity to go to Northern California myself, and I did so, whilst still reading this book.
Le Guin has long been one of the most interesting of the big wave of social science fiction authors that emerged in the '60s, and I've been wanting to read this one for a long time.
However, the book as a whole, which combines the narrative with the fictional archaeology, anthropology, geography, weather, and art of a future tribe of Native Americans who live in what is now Northern California, is enormously inventive.
Ah, what AM I thinking of this book?
It's drawing me in, just shy of 50 years old, in a way it didn't when I first read it (or at least Stone Telling's story!) in my 20s.I'm enjoying the poetry more, and the ethnography, and I've had the good fortune to be part of modern wakwaha thanks to Spiritfire Festival and the Earthspirit Community.
I think, more and more, that this is how the post-Apocalyptic future will be - somewhere between Octavia Butler's work and this.
Also interesting to read of nonviolent ethics with no reference to Christianity, in the wake of the Charleston massacre.
Always Coming Home is LeQuin's ethnographic self coming out.
It is not a story, in so much as there is a central plot with a cast of characters, but is instead a description of an Earth where nature takes precedence, culture is devised around the natural landscape, and rich culture is showcased through legends and songs.
Always Coming Home is a rich work of world building which vividly describes and illustrates diverse cultures within a region of North America.
I adored this work, more so because you can pick it up and read small sections without feeling the need to read from cover to cover.
It’s hard to judge this as a novel as it is more of a fictional anthropological guide to a made-up society.
Le Guin does an awesome job of creating a world from the basic elements right up to the most important parts, but it is quite the challenge to wrap your mind around.
There are stories interspersed between studies of the Kesh, but these are few and far between and just as hard to read as the rest of the book.
It’s worth the effort to some extent, but its inaccessibility makes it more of an oddity than a must read.
