https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/854757.Bet_Me
I don’t know if there’s anything more boring than a person who never tries anything new (if I’d been the hero, I’d have stopped dating her just because of this.) I enjoyed the first part of the book – the humor was not over the top and the plot was wacky but not creepy.
I had to speed up this book a lot, just to see if I could stop hearing ‘so and so said’ after every sentence.Because I liked the humor, I was thinking that I should give this author another shot, but then I thought that for the first time ever, an author has put me off food.
Cute story, but I'm still not sold on Jennifer Cruise.I've read this one and Welcome to Temptation, which are supposed to be her top two books and my feelings for both are overwhelmingly...ok.
I know she's supposed to be one of the queens of Chick-lit, so this leads me to believe that Chick-lit will never be my jam.Which is fine.Ok.Min is chubby.
And Min is always gonna be chubby.
And prince charming (Cal) isn't one of those guys who already knows he likes the curvy ladies.
Chick-lit may not rock my world, but I certainly don't feel like it's a waste of my time.
5 'DONUT' STARS.A fabulously written book with plenty of heart and soul, low on the drama and high on the humour, 'Bet me' is a book that all romance lovers should have on their 'I need to read' shelves.
My book heart was crying out for a chic-lit fix, so with a few recommendations for this book under my belt I decided to forge ahead and reconnect with my first love of reading style.
Can opposites really attract?What did I love?Spectacularly well written, witty and full of humour this story is chic-lit at its finest.
WOW! Great story!Excellent writing!Amazing Characters!Min.. Great decision!Cal...We KNOW you didn't make the bet so.. .. in the end it made me want to eat LOTS, AND LOTS of Krispy Kreme donuts!.. *sigh*
It is a book you read when you need something to pick you up.
I'm so glad I read it!The main characters were mostly insane...really.
“What i'm trying to tell you," Min said, "is that im going to grow up to be one of those chubby old ladies.
"David" the douche makes the bet with Calvin that he can't get Min in bed in a month, just after he breaks up with her, despite the fact that he wants her back.
This book strikes for funny and light and the characters reflect it.The "friends" were just as crazy...
I'll just say that every time Cal kissed Min, Liza decked him with her purse.
Drage moje, vidim da ste je mnoge pročitale... i da se većini dopala... drago mi je (kao uredniku knjige)... :) Jednom rečju, šta god da pročitate od ove autorke lepo ćete se zabaviti, nasmejati... Pravi laki, zabavni, i A klase "ženski" romani... Beach read :)
I loved Mim and Cal!
I loved how Cal made Mim feel sexy about not being a size two.
He also was quick to put Mims mom in her place when it came to her harping all the time to Mim about not eating carbs and dieting.
I loved how Mim stood up to Cals family and never made him feel stupid because he was dyslexic.
I loved how every time Cal or Mim voiced out loud to themselves that they were never going to see each other again something weird would happen.
Oh and Mim had some really cool shoes and she loved Elvis Presley!
Until recently, this was not available on KINDLE in Europe and I really wanted to read it so what's a girl to do - had to order the paperback. Loved it. No sooner had I the paperback than it became available on KINDLE in Europe. What's a girl to do? Download it and read it again ... Great, great story.
Because I'm in a good mood today.Warning: the gif is strong with this one.
This book made me feel like:And also like:And also, also like: All in all this proved to be a charmingly delightful reading experience.
Good times and stuff.» And the moral of this Next Time Anyone Sees Me Reading a Book Similar to this One Please Do Me a Favor and Shoot Me in the Head Thank Thee Kindly Super Extra Crappy Non Review Thingie (NTASMRaBSttOPDMaFaSMitHTTKSECNRT™) is: ah, sugar-shock inducing books, there really is nothing quite like them.
Trust me on that one, I read this book, I know what I'm talking about.
I loved Cal. Truly loved that dream of a book boyfriend.
This was of course a defense mechanism, and it was hilarious in the beginning when she used it like crazy against Cal. There were tons of laugh out loud moments, a fantastic secondary cast--loved her bff's Bonnie and Liza!--touching scenes, swoony scenes and a romance that gave me the warm fuzzies!
Tony was awesome, really standing up when it was necessary, and pointing Cal in the right direction.
I'm now off to start reading JC's other books, this is why goodreads is so great, we discover new and fantastic authors!
Cal and Min, loved them!
⭐⭐⭐⭐⭐ 5 STARS ⭐⭐⭐⭐⭐You know when you read a great book when, not even in the middle of it, all you can think of is : I was seriously beating myself up with this the whole time! It felt so good to read this book!To sum it up quickly, I loved it for a lot of reasons but mainly : 1 - DialoguesJennifer Crusie knows how to make her characters talk! Vividly!2 - Humor I was really laughing out loud at some quotes or situations! This book is filled with sarcasm and high quality banter. I know you stole
⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️ 5 STARS ⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️You know when you read a great book when, not even in the middle of it, all you can think of is : I was seriously beating myself up with this the whole time!
It felt so good to read this book!To sum it up quickly, I loved it for a lot of reasons but mainly : 1 - DialoguesJennifer Crusie knows how to make her characters talk!
“It's a good thing he broke up with you because now you're free for when the right man finds you.
lol.4 - Food !Do not read this book on a diet.
https://www.virivillarreal.com/2018/0...Hace mucho tiempo que no disfrutaba tanto leer un libro.
ESTE ES ESE TIPO DE LIBROS QUE TIENES QUE LEER.
LO AMOOOOOOOOOOO.Un poco bizarra la situación en la que se comienza a desarrollar la relación pero me encantó tanto o más que la primera vez.Este libro es único.
Desde su primera aparición te conquista, es de los personajes que debes conocer para enamorarte más pero que a primera vista son irresistibles.
Algo que gracias a dios no se toca tanto como se pensaría pues en realidad ni siquiera son SUS problemas, más bien los de sus familiares.
Min es una chica común, pero encantadora.
It all started with a bet ...One exciting and incredibly fun chick lit novel that will make you laugh and make you think about whether a happy ending is really possible and theory of chaos real.Min is serious.
Cal is a charmer.
Min is ready for something more.
Cal is not known for serious relationships.
Min is angry at men, especially after her last relationship.
Cal is not ready for a woman who will tell him "NO".
Min is a curvy brunette.
Cal likes blondes.
It's all up to you to find out if it's really like that.
This book is HILARIOUS!! & CUTE! Story: We meet Min, a woman who doesn't care much about her looks, and is characterized by her friends as plain. After breaking up with her boyfriend, she decides to go out to dinner with a guy who wants to win a bet on her. Calvin is gorgeous, and man whore, a guy who woman shouldn't get too close to, but when coincident plays in the role, Cal & Min gets closer together, and might possibly fall in love. However, will they last together? “Nobody in my lif
Calvin is gorgeous, and man whore, a guy who woman shouldn't get too close to, but when coincident plays in the role, Cal & Min gets closer together, and might possibly fall in love.
This was a great plus for this book since I enjoyed it so much!-Cal & Min!
I love the character development, and how Min & Cal changed slowly.
This book is hilarious, and has a very good plot.
Recommend: I recommend this book to readers who wants a light read.
This is highly recommended to readers who just read a VERY heavy subjected book, and want something funny, and light.
I needed this book!
It seems as if all of the books I read lately are such intense reads.
Bet Me was the perfect reprieve.
From the first page, it was just so much fun!
I mean, she introduces her "R rated pixie" friend on like page five.
The intro scene is Min in a bar with her friends while her boyfriend is breaking up with her.
Call is the perfect guy, which is not what Min wants or expects.
Min is a typical woman in that she sees only the worst in herself physically.
This is my 3rd time reading, or rather this go around I listened to the audio version.
Still a 5 star book, the audio version was wonderful, and Deanna Hurst rocked the read.
The story still had the same impact it did when I read it the first and second time.
One of my favorite plump girl...full figure...curvy women reads!
Lots of fun, loads of laughs, and some really quirky, memorable characters.
What starts out as a bet, turns into love…only Cal and Min have a little trouble figuring that out.
But the journey is oh so much fun.
Leer reseña completa en el blog http://www.lacomunidaddellibro.com/re...Creo que con esta vez es la cuarta que leo este libro, es uno de ésos libros que siempre recurro cuando estoy pasando por una época en que no consigo que ninguna novela me enganché, siempre que lo leo la historia me atrapa de una forma que hace que lo devore y esté hasta la madrugada para terminarlo (menos mal que siempre me lo leo en sábado).Es una novela ágil, divertida (de las que te hacen reír a carcajadas) y muy romántica (sin ser empalagosa).

So yeah, I read this book again; I don't really know why, and it really made me feel better.
I love that he loves her when she eats and acts like a total boss bitch.
But hey, it is fiction at the end of the day, and its ultimate aim is to make you feel good.
I like books where the characters actually have things in common, where they can talk about things and actually connect, rather than, well, merely connect their bodies (if you know what I mean), and Min and Cal's relationship was one of minds, souls, and of course, bodies.
Don't you just love it when you re-read a book you haven't read in years and are instantly reminded of a genre you used to adore, and a book you thought was wonderful?If possible, I enjoyed this even more on my second read.Ah, Cal. What a dreamboat. <3Read #2: March 6, 2016 - 5 starsRead #1: August 17, 2012 - 5 stars
4.5 StarsThis was a nice little surprise.
She loved it so I one clicked it.
Bet Me had a great cast of characters.
I adored the heroine Min. She was strong, funny, sweet, and very relatable.
I’d love to have her in my circle of friends.
The hero Cal was perfectly flawed and he too was very relatable.
The secondary characters were fabulous.
While it was Min and Cal’s story we also got a little side story with Bonnie and Roger.
And Cal’s nephew Harry the ichthyologist was too cute.
She is an Elvis fan.
He is a Crispy Crème’s fan.
Bonnie turned back to the field and called Roger's name.
"Just so you know, I'm going to say yes."Roger sighed.
Dialogues with a mention of statistics a little often are cute, however, almost every conversation with a mention of percentages of whatever does not strike me as amusing.(4)The characters also talked about theories on love.
And in my honest opinion, I think the author was trying to merge the two in one.Also in the duration of the book, there wasn't any real focus on the H/h.
I really wanted to love this book.
4.5 Betting Stars!This was such a great book!! Jennifer Crusie writes a great love story with lots of humor. Thank you for picking it for me Alexandra!! You did good :O)
Bet Me might change that.I thoroughly enjoyed this one!Min Dobbs has everything a girl could want, good, stable job, close friends, who cares if she has less than ideal weight?
Immediately her friends try to help by getting her to hook up with the handsome man standing on the balcony- right next to recent dumpee boyfriend.When Min decides to take on her friends challenge and meanders over to meet the admittedly attractive man, she freezes in horror when she overhears Dumpee Dave making a bet with sexy new man, Cal Morrissey, that he can't get Min to sleep with him in a months time.More horrifying, Cal promptly follows Min after she returns to her girls.
Μπορεί από την περίληψη να υποθέσει κανείς ότι πρόκειται για ένα cliché, ένα κλασικό love sotry , διαβάζοντας ωστόσο παρακάτω αντιλαμβάνεται πως κάτι τέτοιο δεν ισχύει.
Αυτό έρχεται να παρουσιάσει ο Καλ, ο οποίος αγαπά την Μιν όπως ακριβώς είναι και διαφωνεί με την μητέρα της που θέλει να την υποβάλλει σε εξωφρενικές δίαιτες για να ταιριάζει με το σύνολο.
Για τον λόγο αυτό έγινε ο αγαπημένος μου χαρακτήρας μαζί με την Μιν , παρά τις αμφιβολίες που είχε για τον εαυτό της.
Και οι δύο μου άρεσαν τόσο πολύ και ήταν τόσο ταιριαστοί μεταξύ τους που από την πρώτη στιγμή ήθελα να καταλήξουν μαζί.
Especially Chick-lit that's happy and filled with sexual tension and innuendo!Here's the story: Min Dobbs (yes, horrible name, but it illustrates how 'plain' she sees herself) gets dumped in the opening sentences by David, who then meets up with God's gift to women, Cal Morrisey and bets him that Cal can't bed Min in a month (because David couldn't in two).
Mature, Unconditional Love: the final stage; nothing can separate you nowLike I said: happy Chick-lit.
Oh, Christ, I gave her a feral catI adore this book and I'm currently on my 58th reread, approximately. Any book that can rouse my hunger for both chicken marsala and serious shoe shopping at the same time is a winner.
I did not want to stop reading.The book starts with a well done mis-communication - the bet.
David bets Cal that he can’t get Min to bed in a month.
The good guys had flaws and weaknesses.Min is caring and smart and works as an actuary.
Min tries to diet to please her mother but it doesn’t work.
She was so sure she was right about Cal and Min - spouting things like they are in this stage or that stage and here’s what’s going on.
Por lo general cuando los libros tienen tanto humor terminan por cansarme porque da la sensación que recurren siempre a los mismos tipos de chistes pero en este caso no me paso eso.
Muchas veces pasa que la protagonista dice que "Pepita es la mejor amiga" y con suerte Pepita aparece dos veces en todo el libro, y si lo hace es para estar ahí como una estatua y que la protagonista le cuente sus problemas.
Acá no pasa eso, las dos amigas de Min tienen sus propias subtramas y lo mismo con los amigos de Cal. Es refrescante, porque tenes un grupo de personajes variopintos en lo que cada uno aporta algo a la historia.
i got ill reading this book, i like chick-lit but this was way toooooo much.
the word dizzy is used more than 90 times in this book.
its not bad but its not good, this is the kind of book to read when you have nothing else to do.
thats the only time you should read this book.
Half of the book is for people with short-term memory loss b/c the samething keep happening, they fight, he loves her, she loves him, hes the beast, hes the one, hes an ass, shes a bi*ch its too long and too much!!!!!
