https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18667945-girlboss
I had such high hopes for this book, but it turns out that now I’ll be writing one of my only truly negative reviews on Goodreads…Sophia Amoruso has surely accomplished a lot with Nasty Gal, and I respect her work ethic and ability to achieve success with rough beginnings and little formal education.
Also, she seems frustratingly lacking in self-awareness and empathy – she often writes as though everything she has earned is wholly “deserved” and that the universe provided what she was “owed”, without honestly acknowledging that many out there who have likely worked harder and longer than her haven’t gotten nearly as much success.
I put off reading this book for a long time because  #GIRLBOSS  is the most vomit-inducing book title I can think of and now I have read it I wish I hadn't bothered.  #GIRLBOSS  is peculiar mix; it's a book that doesn't know whether it wants to be a memoir or if it wants to give business advice. Most of Sophia Amoruso's memories are irrelevant and self-absorbed, with humble brags littering the pages. Sophia constantly reminds readers of the "meteoric rise of Nasty Girl" and how her "own profile
I put off reading this book for a long time because 
is the most vomit-inducing book title I can think of and now I have read it I wish I hadn't bothered.
is peculiar mix; it's a book that doesn't know whether it wants to be a memoir or if it wants to give business advice.
You would do well to heed your own advice, Sophia: "It’s not cool to get drunk on your own success."
Having been Nasty Gal's first intern during the early days in Berkeley when it was just Sophia and Christina (the first full-time employee who is now Buying Director), my rating may be a little biased so feel free to take everything from this point forward with a grain of salt.I won't bother with a short summary as this book has gotten enough press and reviews from readers alike that that just seems redundant.
Her story is one with a "Cinderella-esque" theme in a male-run tech start-up world, and it's easy to think / feel like something similar could happen to any of us so long as you just follow Sophia's magic formula.
It's not an employees job to give you a crash course in topics they learned in their MBA.I think I would have enjoyed this more if it was just a straight biography and gave up the pretense of telling people how to be #girlbosses.I also googled Nasty Gal after reading the book and came upon a Glass Door page where the company is rated VERY low in employee satisfaction and a trustpilot page where it also is rated very low in shopper satisfaction.
After she addressed the issue of whether or not her book was a feminist manifesto by saying that she believes in "showing up and owning it" not "whining" for equality, I was pretty much soured on everything else she had to say.
And while there were some good parts of the book - she does have some interesting things to say about venture capitalism and hiring and firing - there were so many other things that made me want to throw the book against the wall in abject frustration.
The most frustrating part for me was when she said that she didn't believe in luck.
I’m still really glad to be a girl in it.”I also loved the chapter about her school experience:“So, #GIRLBOSS, if you suck at school, don’t let it kill your spirit.
It’s a weird world we live in, and until time travel exists we’ve all got to make the most of where we land.”“No matter where you are in life, you’ll save a lot of time by not worrying too much about what other people think about you.
If you're interested in buying #GIRLBOSS, just click on the image below to go through my link.
She's dedicated to her business, she's extremely talented at what she does, and I suspect she'd be pretty fun to attend a party with even thought she would probably make you wear silver leather pants.
Amoruso neglects the more fascinating elements of her story, like the fact that she went from being the "youngest person at a San Francisco Marxist book club" and eating dumpster bagels to being a CEO with a brand-new Porsche.
The off-the-wall-ness does work for her sometimes, especially within the context of a business book.
Those stories, and how they helped her become a better person, are silly and illuminating.
#GIRLBOSS is Sophia Amoruso's story about her wild childhood, unlikely and extraordinarily successful business venture and her treatise on how to be yourself and bring what is unique to you to your professional life.I googled Sophia after I finished this book and was dismayed to discover she has declared bankruptcy.It seems she still has a successful motivational speaker program going on, but, for whatever reason, her business hasn't worked out.I suspect, she will land on her feet and start again.
But before you start to think you just got lucky, remember that it's magic, and you made it yourself." ebook, pg 115.Come bankruptcies and whatever else, I believe Sophia Amoruso will be just fine.
gag...) Beyond it being poorly written (sounds like a teenager's rambling life story), it doesn't have any true focus or offer any innovative or interesting advice.
Most of the advice (work hard, don't have typos in your resume, attention to detail) are well known, common, and repeated in countless books, television shows, etc...
She worked hard in all her jobs?
She does an incredible amount of bragging about her successes and everyone loving her, and rambles her way through her story at a very high level.
Your story just isn't interesting or well written enough to tell.
Funny, entertaining, sassy, sarcastic, and incredibly smart.
Amoruso manages to bring her funny/sarcastic personality onto these pages while seriously teaching about what it means/takes to be a girlboss.
I took so much from this book and I have a strong feeling I'll be rereading it once I'm done with university.
The balance between the casual narration style and spot on intelligent business/life advice is fantastic.
Pick this up if you feel like you need a motivational push in your life no matter what area of your life you need said push for.
This book is all about kicking ass and being your personal best against all odds.
Ahem... This book was overly flippant on a lot of things. A lot of stuff sounded controversional. Some of it plain stupid. The approach to business felt as in the 'wring-them-and-kick-them-out' attitude. The 'I recognise the crazies during job interviews' approach is, well, irritating. I don't think this gal is a professional psychologist any more than she is a professional businessman or a writer.The general originality might merit this book 1,5 star. The rest is a very successful exercise in irritating me.
I thought that perhaps I was a freak of nature until I read this book and realized that there is someone out there so much like me!
In the end, I found this book to be thought provoking and hopeful.
I am in a similar situation as she was as far as having surgery and then feeling stuck and wanting to work on my own terms and peacefully and I could see how someone can use this book to inspire them when life gets a bit tough.
#GIRLBOSS follows Sophia Amoruso’s journey through developing a kick-ass, successful business and life. She’s inspiring and definitely offers a lot of sound advice for aspiring “girlbosses”. Considering that this was written in 2014 I would love to read a more updated version. I’m sure a lot has changed for Sophia and her company in the last four years.
Certainly it's impressive that Amoruso became such a successful entrepreneur, at so young an age (I think she's now 30), and by utilizing social media to not just shape a distinct brand but also to identify, target, and respond to her customers.
To quote from the back flap of the book, "I have three pieces of advice I want you to remember: Don't ever grow up.
Amoruso's savvy approach to details, customers, and being a good job applicant and entry level employee are sound, but they're certainly not novel nor are they applicable to being a #Girlboss, or any type of boss.
But this book fell short on delivering something substantial.
But if you are close to Sophia's age, you might find it a little too preachy...at times, like she refuses to take off her public persona to show a real glimpse of herself.
I almost stopped reading the book immediately after the first chapter because of its eerie similarly to cheesy self-help books, but gave the second chapter a try.
My biggest take away from the book is the chapter on money.
Especially with today's youths maxing out their credit cards the second they get it.
At times I had a sneaky suspicion that she was writing this book to instil discipline to her employees...
(and in a really teeny-tiny way, that disappointed me but, for the most part, i loved this novel.)this is a book that i would recommend to every human.
never read non-fiction novels?
who cares, go read this.
(although that might've been because i was already quite tired while reading those parts..) i also found it a bit difficult to picture her timeline since the chapters are mostly told in topics and mini anecdotes.
but other than that, i truly loved this novel.
if you're relatively interested in business or need a motivational read, PICK THIS UP NOW.
4.5 stars 1. #GIRLBOSS is written by someone who didn't go to college. Before you back away from this book, hear me out with my nine other reasons. 2. #GIRLBOSS is bad-ass, and inspires me to be a bad-ass myself. One who can conquer ANYTHING. 3. Sophia Amoruso is so hilarious. I ACTUALLY laughed out loud on pretty much every page. In public.  4. #GIRLBOSS gives really great advice on, sure, business and getting jobs, but STREET SMARTS too. 5. #GIRLBOSS really resonated with me in that it makes m
Before you back away from this book, hear me out with my nine other reasons.
2. #GIRLBOSS is bad-ass, and inspires me to be a bad-ass myself.
6. The book is pink.
7. #GIRLBOSS taught me that no, you don't have to go to college if you don't have to, and that you can still be a #GirlBoss without a college degree.
8. #GIRLBOSS taught me how to appreciate what you have and use it.
9. #GIRLBOSS taught me that #GirlBosses aren't superhuman.
#GIRLBOSS inspired a confidence in me for my future.Check out this review and more atBooks and Other Happy Ever Afters
This was a mostly amazing book, I would recommend it to anyone, even if you are not a female entrepreneur.The author has a great outlook on life and the book inspires you to have more confidence in yourself, even if you feel like you are failing at what you think you should be doing.
well, I wanted to read the book way beforehand.
IT's her story about how she went from a little ebay store to a real life business woman.
Just mentioning that she created a business from that little ebay job.
She's a hard worker and she knew what she wanted in her life.
Yeah, I'm not where I want to be in business world right now..
I know I'll get to where I want to be later in my life..but I'll just have to work even harder to get there a lot sooner.Overall, I really liked this book.
For me, this book was perfect. It had so much to do with confidence, which is what I need right now, so it spoke to me. I know I'll read passages from it many times in the future and I'm so grateful it was given to me. I'd encourage all women to read it!
Patronizing. Summary:"Look how awesome I am! GIRLBOSS. GIRLBOSS. I reached everything by myself! You can do it too! I am so amazing! I learn everything! I hate capitalism! GIRLBOSS. Ohhh, I am so like you! You can do it! I am so original and creative! There is no bad job! I even believe in magic and sigils! I had nothing and now I have so much! And I did it! You can do it! Go for it! We are an awesome company! GIRLBOSS."Uhhhh... I know Sofia is awesome, she did so much (I never heard about Nast
Summary:"Look how awesome I am!
We are an awesome company!
I know Sofia is awesome, she did so much (I never heard about Nasty Gal before thou, and even if their prices are fine, I didn't find anything I liked - I guess I am not that nasty...), but the book feels like she just wrote it in one sitting, without anything really useful for young girls.
It lack continuity - Sofia starts with her younger years (the beginning) and the mixes everything - job interview advices, business success secrets, her life, more advice and even more information about her.
While it was truly interesting to read about the creation of Nasty Gal and Sophia's atypical rise to success, and while I respect and admire anyone who makes something from nothing, gosh I wish she would have been a little bit more humble.
She was a pretty serious shop lifter, a lot more than a couple of nail polish bottles here and there, and I find it weird that it's all laugh laugh wasn't that a hilarious time now I'm a respectable CEO.
It was hip and fun and cool to read about someone who stuck it to the man.
Sigh.
This is written like a really long blog post.
I completely disagree with her attitude about money and hard work and reward.
I think putting something out to the universe and making it so is bullshit.
I think different people have different ideas of success.
I think people who choose to be poor because it's cool and "screw the man, man!" are naive and belong in a Pulp song.
I think if you grow out of that phase and just shift to the other end of the spectrum, you aren't any less naive..
just different.I have to organise my notes.
Unless you are in 6th grade and have never spoken to anyone about your future, do not waste your time, money, brain power.
This book is one of the most mindless, judgmental, condescending, self-inflating, poorly written book on business.
I didn't need to buy a book to tell me that.
She also was very judgmental towards certain types of people which came off as someone with know life experience or self-awareness.Furthermore, the book was written terribly!
There's no way she had a ghost writer because at least the ghost writer wouldn't have written it like a 14 year old angsty teen.
Multiple times throughout the book, Amoruso says the thing she's good at is free marketing.
THERE IS NO #GIRLBOSS, AMORUSO DOESN'T GIVE A SHIT ABOUT US, SHE IS JUST GETTING FREE PRESS FOR NASTY GAL.
That's why there's no actual business advice, it's just Amoruso catering towards a wide audience so people buy it, lap it up, and then want to shop at Nasty Gal. The whole title being a hashtag = PROMO.
It's all just fucking promo and it's fucking bullshit.I don't care about the memoirs of some woman who I don't know.
Perfect book!Funny and sharp!Bad girl attitude at it's best!This seems my kinda book!Just got it on 
But it's also just not the only way to do things (when I was in high school and worked retail and some toolbag came in with a printed resume, we laughed at them and thought maybe they weren't prepared for the real world of retail service, and made them fill in our paper application.) For example, after explaining how Nasty Gal grew out of her own feelings of ennui and anarchy, the author preaches positivity as, "your thoughts become your actions." So...#hypocrisy?
Often contradictory (do as I say, not as I do) and often condescending (although, again, maybe that was just the audio version coming across that way to me) I felt all my initial inspiration wane and grow into irritation.
Actual rate 2.5 I liked it overall, I'll even apply some of the advices in my professional life. Also, the "Portrait of a #GIRLBOSS" sections, very empowering; thumbs up.But there were too many paragraphs and chapters that felt kinda out of place, repetitive and that contributed nothing.
More realistic and inspiring than Lean In.
Very inspiring!!! I'm a #GIRLBOSS
