https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/76933.The_Clue_of_the_Broken_Blade
This was a thrilling book. It kept me on the edge of my seat the whole time. Frank and Joe are in search of a saber. The saber is supposed to have an inscription of a will on it. There are many people in search of this sword and they will do anything to get it and claim the inheritance. Will the Hardys find it first or will they be kept prisoners? I would recommend it to people that like action and adventure.
I really enjoyed this one. It was confusing in the beginning, but got really interesting very soon. My only complaint is that I feel like it was too fast paced.
I think that this book is a great book because it has good vocab and perfect for people who like mystery books.
The very first Hardy Boys book that I ever read, and I absolutely loved it.
Not even Chet Morton tackling and punching bad guys could give this one more than two stars.
The parental Hardys show up when the director of a film the boys become a part of just happens to run into Fenton and Laura on their vacation at the Grand Canyon.
The only good part of it was the aforementioned head punch from Chet that sent one of the bad guys running away into the woods.
Then, they lose it to the bad guys one more time just to stretch the story to over 170 pages.The good news is that for a younger child, it is still a good mystery.
Clue of the Broken Blade is a vey interesting story of Frank and Joe Hardy looking for an ancient blade that belongs to a fencing instructor Ettore Russo. But other people are looking for it too because the founder of the blade will be granted a huge mansion and a vineyard. The Hardy's retrieve the blade then face challenges with criminals chasing them. Then the brothers trap the criminals and send the blade to Ettore Russo. The hardy's get rewarded i the end with a thousand dollars.
An odd mystery...but a good one!
Hardy Boys + Swords. Need I say more?
What a hoot this one was...I hadn’t read a Hardy Boys book in a while and picked up this one.
One complaint I had is a spoiler so don’t read any farther if you haven’t read the book yet...SPOILER:The final discovery of the sword and the inscription was rather disappointing for me and why I rated this book only 3 stars.
The book was always building to the moment where the boys would find the sword and I was expecting something rather spectacular BUT stumbling on the sword by complete chance was really disappointing to me.
This is one of my favorite Hardy Boys stories so far (having read numbers 1-21, 46, and 51)--I won't give away exactly why, but part of it is that Laura Hardy gets a bigger role than just being the wife and mother of the more famous Hardys.
The action does take some rather glaring liberties with the geography of California, placing a mountain and ski resort ridiculously close to the Sacramento-San Joaquin Delta, and "wine country" and Fresno within much closer driving distance to this area (I live in Sacramento) than they actually are.
Book Recommendation Paragraph Clash, Clang, want on the sound of the two foils clashing and fighting with each other. The Clue of The Broken Blade is a fascinating book that goes along with the series of the Hardy Boys who are helpers of their father detective. They must find the sword of atlandante to help the maestro Ettori Russo to help get him all the money he needs to continue the school. The book is written by Franklin W. Dixon, but the artist is unknown. P.4 “We can`t give lessons, but we
Book Recommendation Paragraph	Clash, Clang, want on the sound of the two foils clashing and fighting with each other.
The Clue of The Broken Blade is a fascinating book that goes along with the series of the Hardy Boys who are helpers of their father detective.
P.4 “We can`t give lessons, but we can supervise training for a few weeks” The Hardy Boys and their friends want to help because they have a good motivation and a kind heart.
It showed that we can be kind to other people and we can always have a good heart to encourage others.
Ate these up as a kid and usually got them as gifts for birthdays, Christmas and other events. This edition would be quite dated now and I believe they have updated the books. The author was a pseudonym for a plethora of writers who contributed to this series.
When their fencing master asks for the boys' help in finding the broken end of an old saber belonging to his family, Frank and Joe instead end up on the trail of bank robbers! Dixon will have young fans on the edge of their seats with this entry!
Compared to the last few Hardy Boys books I've read, this was pretty good (for a kids mystery). The premise was a little over the top, but then aren't all premises in the Hardy Boys books?
Decided to read this with one of my sons. How can you help but love the Hardy boys?
Sword theft! Hijackers! A really, really bad cover! Standard but fun Hardy Boys story here.
I personally am growing a bit tired of the formula, but with cars chases, false arrests and a near entombment, this still delivers the thrills to eight and ten year olds.
The original Nancy Drew and Hardy Boys series are so wonderfully dated, even though all the books from the 1920s to the 1940s were rewritten and updated in the 60s and 70s.
As I read the novel, I felt a bit like an archeologist because I could see the layers of the original story details as well as the updated information about the "voiceprint" technology that I mentioned earlier.
She should have gone undercover like this more often.All in all, The Clue of the Broken Blade turned out to be a good reminder of why I started collecting and rereading the original Hardy Boys series in the first place.
This is the first mystery book I remember reading, and at the time, I was completely captivated.
So exciting!
So mysterious!
Where can I find more books like this?!
(Wait--there are DOZENS AND DOZENS of them?!?!) I loved the book so much that I even wrote Franklin Dixon a letter, though I don't know if I ever sent it...or if he was even alive when I wrote it.Anyway, I was excited to re-read the book that kicked off my long and abiding love for detective fiction, but alas, this one did not hold up for me.
A good mystey
Dixon, Franklin W.
The boys heard the story about a broken blade. The Hardys get involed again. The must search for a broken blade.
The hardy biys were always a good read and this one was no exception.
In which the Hardy's take up fencing, Chet finds himself a gordita and the subplot has absolutely nothing to do with the main plot.
It's still an excellent book series of our two main characters solving mysteries together and I wish to read more from them!
I think it was a really actually not my type of book
read when I was 10 through 13
SM
Read in 2005.
I read the Hardy Boys books (and Nancy Drew) when I was a child. The stories are old fashioned, but that's why I like them so much.
