https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1440135.Latter_End
Latter End, a large country house outside of London, is the setting of Patricia Wentworth’s 11th Miss Silver novel.
While Miss Silver is her retired governess self, brilliant and fact-oriented with a strong intuition about what lies between the words of people she speaks to, there were others in this novel.
There have even been times when I’ve had to update my reading schedule where I’ve thought, “Oh, I’ve gone far enough with Miss Silver, I should just put something else in this spot.” But I can’t do it.So far I have not yet come across any two mysteries that are close to being the same.
The set up for Latter End has been used dozens of times before - Lord of the Manor (Jimmy Latter) marries Lois, a jumped up younger woman slash self-centered floozy who decides to be the new broom that sweeps out the old.
Jimmy is obtuse.Miss Silver's contribution to the mystery is very Marple-esque - she uses her knowledge of human nature and her sharp eyes to figure out when the various and sundry occupants aren't telling the truth, the whole truth and nothing but the truth and then worms it out of them in the nicest way possible.
I particularly enjoy how the relationship between Maud Silver and the Scotland Yard man, Frank Abbot continues to develop.Recently I viewed new presentations of a couple of Miss Marple stories on PBS Masterpiece Mystery and do think there are some similarities between Miss Marple and Miss Silver.
It has been many years since I read the Agatha Christie mysteries, but I am finding that I really like Miss Silver, as a personality, better, and I think she is much more clever and subtle and not so doddering.
I wonder why PBS has not done these mysteries, and if they did, who would they get to play Miss Maud Silver.
The family living at Latter End has always been a bit of a hotchpotch--step-siblings, old family friends, old family retainers, the stray cousin--but it worked wonderfully until Jimmy Latter, owner of the house, married the stunning but ruthless Lois.
After putting up with the mishmash household--for certain values of "putting up with" that include extracting as much work as possible and imposing as much humiliation as possible--Lois decides it's time to send the whole lot packing and start over.
In addition, especially listening to it aloud, I found that there's quite a lot of lovely, lyrical language (that doesn't alliterate quite that much, sorry) that moves Wentworth's writing from the workaday to a higher level.
Another charming book in this series. However...1. How can the author name the main characters Mr & Mrs Latter, then introduce other characters named Mr & Mr Latimer. What was the author thinking? Thank goodness they only appeared for a few pages, but why employ such similair names?2. I am not convinced that the ending held up. (view spoiler)[ Couldn't Lois tell that her coffee already contained sugar and cognac, and be suspicious? If she didn't know and proceeded to add them (again), wouldn't her coffee have been oversweetened? Either way, I can't imagine her dranking that coffee.  (hide spoiler)]
Delightful little mystery with plenty of stunning banter, complex relationships, lovely characters, perfect pacing, and of course, our "revered perceptress," Miss Silver.
Latter End (Miss Silver #11), Patricia Wentworth
Also, some of her habits (the coughing, the knitting) were just put in way too much for them to be charming or make her eccentric (which might be what Wentworth had in mind) and they became annoying to me.
I personally like this style of mystery, as I like to know who is involved and who and why might be suspected of the murder (because it becomes pretty clear in these instances who will be the victim).
I do have the book with the first 3 Miss Silver mysteries and I do plan on reading them (or trying to) in the hopes that earlier in the series, Miss Silver was a little more likable and a little less patronizing!
Lovely (and Loathsome) Lois has Jimmy Fallen wrapped around her well-manicured finger.
Lois is one of those women who always gets what she wants, and doesn't care a bit what happens to anyone else.When Lois turns up dead, the question seems to be: murder or suicide?
Was Lois the type to end her own life?
Were the people who hated her the types to murder her?
Not really...but even the meek, if pushed too far, can do the unthinkable.Favorite character: Julia Vane.
Least favorite: her sister, Ellie Street.
While I know that there are people in the world who are frail, both physically and emotionally, Ellie is just a limp rag.
It's the same formula but oh so comfortable and always intriguing. Miss Silver rocks! And I love the romantic undertow and happy ending.
Official help is on the scene, too – Miss Silver’s old friends, Frank Abbott and Inspector Lamb, are investigating as well.Miss Silver is fabulous for many reasons: she’s extremely smart, she’s compassionate and kind, she is 100% insistent on the truth, she is generous and truly helpful.
I particularly liked the scene at the end, where Miss Silver – knitting, inevitably – explains to that impudent young man, Frank Abbott, the way that she solved the crime.
Although she is conventional in both dress and manner, and believes strongly in upholding social proprieties (many people have been chastened by her reproving cough) Miss Silver never allows herself to be blinded by politeness or convention when she is seeking the truth.
Brilliant, right back to the old format. I hated the victim and had no idea who did it even though the clues were there, huzzah. If you are reading the series than skip books 9 and 10 and leave them till the end, they break the flow.
An enjoyable whodunit in a similar style and era to Agatha Christie's Miss Marple mysteries.
this is one of the best of the miss Silver books. A cast of interesting characters, an ingenious plot, and a very clever solution. Thoroughly enjoyable.
They don't use embarrassing slang; they just talk.I am shocked how long it took me to find out about the novels of Patricia Wentworth because her talent is formidable and her output was huge.Miss Silver herself seems like just an excuse for all these characters and stories to get invited to the party.
Miss Silver has established herself, over the course of this series, as a wise, knitting spinster who has a way of getting people to trust her and tell the truth.
I would advise skipping the first few because Miss Silver had not evolved into the formidable person she becomes later, but that is against my principles.
The reader is meant to be caught up in the puzzle of the mystery, making timetables and looking for clues and deducing who did what, not feeling sad about the victim or even sympathising too much with the grief of those the victim leaves behind.The problem with that in this particular book is that (view spoiler)[it made it obvious that Lois would have to be the victim -- almost everyone hates her!
And yet at the same time all the other characters are so clearly Good and Moral and Nice that it would have broken genre conventions to have one of them as the murderer -- and thus the solution (Lois was trying to kill Jimmy and accidentally killed herself instead) became evident fairly quickly.
Quick read.
Some reader conflict in this one, as the person who gets murdered is the one really unsympathetic character.
Everyone else is sympathetic in one way or another - basically, it's the story of a household of nice people who got stuck with a bad person who married into the family (the spouse slowly has his eyes opened as the story progresses).
And when that bad person is murdered, the conundrum becomes ...
Who of these charming people is a murderer?
The solution is somewhat a stretch, but works in it's own way.
Lois Latter is a selfish woman who has married for money. She tries to controlling her husband's household. Family hangers on spend most of their time doing housework, whereas Lois takes it easy. She wants to kick out family to make room for her friends. When Lois is found dead by poison, it isn't clear whether she was murdered or committed suicide. Miss Silver arrives to help Jimmy Latter. Gradually, the facts come out.
The new mistress of Latter End has everyone turned against her. When she is found poisoned, the suspects are numerous. Wentworth sets up the mystery excellently by giving the reader a solid introduction to the family. Once the murder happens, Miss Silver enters and unravels the clues, giving a most satisfying solution.
I love British mysteries. I have read some of the 'Miss Silver' mysteries, but not for some time. Miss Silver reminds me of Miss Marple. It is written in the 'Agatha Christie' style. This mystery is easy to solve before all is revealed in the end. Hint: Keep in mind what the psychic told Lois. Recommend.
Another of the Miss Silver cozies. I followed up on the passing references to Victorian-era art and literature, all of which are for real works. One is for an author who Wentworth compares favorably with Trollope. I am going to try to find some of her work to see if I agree (Charlotte Yonge).
Typical Miss Silver. Pretty much a poor man’s Miss Marple. Nothing of any literary note—just a fun little read.
I love these, but I want to pull my hair out after the 100000000th mention of "Miss Silver coughed".
Miss Silver arrives & sorts out past & present mystery murders!
Early Bird Books Deal | The usual Miss Silver, though I thought the solution was obvious surprisingly early on and began to get a bit impatient to have it figured out within the narrative.
The murder victim was particularly horrible in this one. Felt relieved when she got bumped off.
I can't stand most of the characters, except Julia, but the mystery itself is challenging.
Love all the Miss Silver books.
Old-fashioned, but so elegant.
Couldn't believe my luck to find a Miss Silver that i hadn't read at the dump. ( er, transfer station) Set in post WWII Britain, a time I like to read about, late 40s, early 50's. Life was so hard. I read once that Brits had it much harder for much longer after the war than the Germans. Anyway, this is a delightful Miss Silver with plenty of vivd characters. Unlike most Miss Silvers, I had this one figured out about 50 pages early.
