https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/444315.The_Spellcoats
With her tenth published novel, she demonstrates a maturity that marks the rest of her career; as good as her previous works are, with The Spellcoats she plays with first person limited POV and the clash of cultures to create Dalemark's history in a way that perfectly fits what she's already established with Cart and Cwidder and the more complex Drowned Ammet.I didn't realize, back in the day, that this book was part of a series.
It also, for my vote, is the real standout of the Dalemark quartet--paring down from the background politics of the first two books and going back hundreds of years to prehistoric Dalemark results in a smaller, more mythic tale that echoes more loudly for how much more contained it is.
And I mean so both figuratively and literally, in a crescendo of an ending which lets all the pieces (the history, culture, and magic of Dalemark, and the people) click into place- and brings into focus the real conflict of the series.Diana Wynne Jones never returned to tell a straightforward story "epic" like the Dalemark Quartet (or at least the first three parts) again, but I would've liked to see how as a mature writer she would lent new twists to the idea.
must say didn't know what to expect and so came in with low expectations for this, so maybe that's the reason, but i really really liked it. i actually thought that this was a right time in the series to have this prehistoric dalemark series. katie and beth thanks for making me read this one before the crown of dalemark, i think this makes the crown more enjoyable.
To save on spoilers, I’ll simply say that old stories reveal great secrets, and Tanaqui and her family discover the truth behind their resemblance to the invaders, shaping the history of Dalemark and the future we have already glimpsed in the adventures of Mitt and Moril.This volume in the series is notably different from the first two, and not just because of the tremendous leap in time.
Again, as in the preceding books in the series, moments of great import or suspense happen so quickly you may miss them if you blink; the lead-up is generally good, but nine times out of ten the resolution is a disappointment and things are often solved too easily.
I think this might be my favourite of the Dalemark books so far.
It felt closer to what I expect from Diana Wynne Jones -- there is darkness, yes, but it doesn't feel the same; there's very little darkness in the protagonists.
Tanaqui works well: she's not perfect, nor too annoying, but a good balance of characteristics -- unlike Robin, who just looks pale and interesting all the time without depth.I enjoyed the way this deepened the understanding of Dalemark and shed light on aspects from the first two books.
I'm a sucker for a fully formed secondary world, and Dalemark is getting there for me.
This was an enjoyable read and did fun, trippy things with narrative. But I think I would have to reread the book after first rereading the first two Dalemark books to feel satisfied that I understood the plot.I enjoy that this book is so grounded in its imagined world; the landscape, ecology, and culture feel absolutely authentic. DWJ doesn't write very much set in secondary worlds, but when she does set a book in one, she does it right!
Jones is just a fun author to read. This is the third in her Dalemark quartet, and I may like it the best of the four so far. It's a fast read and the characters have life. It's told from the perspective of the youngest sister, Tanaqui, who is weaving the story into a coat as she tells it. It develops nicely as she makes discoveries of her own that affect the plot's development. You'll find lots of seemingly little details that become significant, which adds to the adventure of reading.
SIX HUNDRED YEARS EARLIER, Tanaqui and her four siblings are forced out of their home and up the River, urged north to the sea by their older brother, Gull, who has been cursed by a powerful wizard.Book three takes place in prehistoric Dalemark, a time when the land was a different shape and the divide between North and South didn't exist OR DID IT?
I'm beginning to suspect this series is about Dalemark more than any of its citizens, which is frustrating because I grow to like the characters and then the book ends before their stories are fully resolved.Three stars.
This one is for The Spellcoats really, which makes me a bit sad.
If the jump between Cart and Cwidder and Drowned Ammet is disconcerting, the jump to The Spellcoats is even more so.
Mitt and Moril might be only distantly aware of each other, but they are clearly in the same time.
Tanaqui's story clearly is not.
I've said before that I think siblings are one of the things Diana Wynne Jones tends to get right and, in my opinion, she does it again here.
The Spellcoats also introduces a very important character in the person of Kankredin, the villain.
I think the confusion is part of it.
She is weaving her narrative into the eponymous spellcoats -- and she understands much more about what she is doing by the end of the novel than she does at the beginning, when events are set in motion by the King's recruitment of Tanaqui's father, and her elder brother Gull, to fight the Heathens.Tanaqui and her siblings (their mother is dead) are ostracised by the villagers (they look nothing like their neighbours, and they worship different gods) and are eventually forced to flee downriver.
I finally completed my set of Dalemark books (from diverse sources: ex-library, gift, Leura books online, and Sydney Kinokuniya!), so have started reading them through in chronological order (not published order), beginning with a re-read of The Spellcoats! I loved the environment of this book, and as always with DWJ the characters are wonderfully vibrant. The ending did feel somewhat abrupt, but was convincing within the format of the book.
Kronologisk er De magiske kapper den tredje bog i Dalmark-kvartetten, men handlingsmæssigt beskriver den begivenheder der foregik i det forhistoriske Dalmark, og som ikke som sådan har noget at gøre med de to første bøger, men som er afgørende baggrundsviden for den fjerde.Tanaqui har lært af sin mor og søster hvordan man væver historier ind i tæppekapper, og hun er en af de få som forstår at gøre det rigtig godt.
Men efter historien har fået tid til at synke lidt ind, er det tydeligt at den ikke kunne have sluttet på nogen anden måde...
Thus begins a journey downriver to the sea and then back again up to its source before the causes of the conflict can start to be addressed.The Spellcoats has a markedly different feel compared to the middle two Dalemark tales (http://wp.me/s2oNj1-dalemark).
As well as being set in an earlier period, this story is recounted by the young weaver Tanaqui (an approach unlike that in the other three books which are third-person narratives).
Nevertheless, all four novels involve travel for the protagonists in the lands of Dalemark, another metaphor, this time for the personal journeys they are all called on to make.
The Spellcoats has a very different tone as compared to the first two books in the series.
According to the map at the beginning, this is prehistoric Dalemark, before earls and North vs.
This adds an extra layer to the books that came before, and sets up the villain for the final volume.
Yes, it turns out there was a single villain all along -- Kankredin, who we meet in The Spellcoats.
He becomes very important in The Crown of Dalemark.
In fact, all of the characters from The Spellcoats are seen again, although some were in previous volumes.
When most of the men of a village go off to fight a war against some blond invaders, the pale, fair looks passed down to one family's children by their mysterious, foreign(?) mother make them a target of fear and superstition.They escape their threatening neighbors, bringing only their household gods with them in a boat down the river – but these gods turn out to be more than the reader might have assumed, as they embark on a journey of danger and magic, which will lead them not only to the center of the conflict between two tribes, but to the greater threat posed to all by an evil, soul-catching sorcerer.The narrator is a young woman who tells the story through her complicated weaving, setting her tale down in a textile coat.
DWJ has created, from whole cloth, this political world of Dalemark; in The Spellcoats she takes us back in time to its legends and mythology.
One of the themes is when legends were little kids, what were they like?
Some books have explored this before - The Sword in the Stone comes to mind.
But DWJ's legendary children certainly act like real siblings, down to the pouting, teasing, bickering, and occasional fist fights that sisters and brothers get into.
The Dalemark books are a strange bunch of books, and they aren't always completely successful, but The Spellcoats can stand alone as an interesting book.
I read this recently -- I always hesitate to revisit favorite authors from my youth, but this didn't let me down.
To be sure, the plot is both elementary in fantasy terms and standard for Jones (it seems like almost every single one of her early books involved the main character discovering the hidden magical talents they were born with), but it's really well told.
The four main characters (Tanaqui and her siblings Hern, Duck, and Robin) all have distinct personalities, they interact with each other just like they'd been together all their lives, they're realistically children, of the ages they're said to be, and grow during the course of the story.
unlikable...
(...maybe unlikable is not the right word...
what I mean to say is, as they got annoyed with each other, I got annoyed at and with them, which happened QUITE A BIT, so while clearly I was emotionally invested, it did not make a large section of the book very fun to read) HOWEVER the manner in which the story was presented (as a recovered historical document) was by far my favorite aspect; as well as the epilogue, which made me want to reread the entire book instantly (which I will certainly do once I figure out where this whole series is going)
Even though you don't need to have read the previous two books in the quartet, I suspect I would have enjoyed the story a lot more if I had.
That being said this is still a good book.
This is a pre-history of Dalemark and follows Tanaqui as she weaves the story of her, her siblings, the river, the Undying (mystical god-like powers), and an evil force.
I appreciated the plainness of the storytelling - it actually feels like a child is recounting her story.
The weaving aspect is especially cool, and I like Tanqui's stubbornness.
A really odd novel by Diana Wynne Jones - and my appreciation of it is surely not helped by the fact it has been years since I read the first two books.
It is an archaic mythic sort of YA fantasy, and it stands on its own almost, apart from the ending where resolution is projected to the final book in the quartet.
But it is odd indeed.
The almost trademarked mythic plot twists are here, but the narrator is unlikeable in a way that feels beyond the author´s intentions and some of the plot details feel clumsy.
For that post-Harry, pre-something heavy and involved time.Recommended to me by my genetics prof (who saw me finishing a Harry Potter book one day on campus).
The Dalemark Quartet is more advanced reading than the Harry Potter books, but the same type of fanstasy and contains a long and interwoven story line that fully comes together in The Crown of Dalemark.
Characters and items in each previous book play a main role in this last installment so the quartet must be read in order and close together (or the reader must have a solid memory).Other books on my list by this author are appropriate for younger audiences.
Started slowly, and seemed a little out there for Diana, because of the religiosity of "The Ones" but at the midway point her humour really started showing through.Can't wait to read the rest of the Dalemark Quartet
When I first read this as a kid, I thought it was terribly dull. I was wrong.
Sometimes, immortal creatures who claim they aren't gods sure seem to be gods.
Ech.(Yes, I know I'm reading these in the wrong order.
Which is odd, because Cart and Cwidder absolutely charmed my pants off, and The Spellcoats looked set to do the same.
Yes. But are these comments also often justified within the narrative, and framed thusly without justification?
Also yes.
It's not the worst I've ever seen, but for this sort of book - especially as it's much more obviously targeted toward younger kids than Cart and Cwidder felt.I can see all the markings of a really good book here, and I'll be the first to say it's still a very creative, inventive and beautifully written book.
It has those amazing elements she's known for in execution and style of magic, beautiful thought and care go into the artistry of creation in particular in this book and the magic is literally earth shattering (an always satisfying culmination to see in her writing).
Characters are complex and realistic and even minor characters have visible personal motivation.
I must always praise that characters hate and love one another in both long and short term, that family members are shown to be flawed (and sometimes truly horrible) and have strengths as well, and simply that families are large and complex and have shifting membership and dynamics.
I have to be honest.
The first half of this book was dull.
Get used to a lot of water and rushing and water and rushing.The second half of the book however finally gets to the meat of the story.
We've finally met all the players and we've got despair and imminent failure.
Finally, it's interesting.
And, as always, the way with which Jones handles her world and magic building is just flawless.Though the end was abrupt and largely unresolved I imagine the next three books of the series will clear some things up.
Brilliant book. The entire series is an admirable feat of writing, but the Spellcoats give a turn to fiction that oen wouldn't expect. I Greatly enjoyed the anthropological angle and the delicacy with which the story unfolds. Diana writes novels to enchant you and to test the assumptions of her readers, only to have them question their opinions a few chapters later. Fantasy or not, loss and pain are very real in her writing, as are love and loyalty. My read of 2017!
This is the oddest book of the Dalemark Quartet. It doesn't quite feel as if it really belongs with the other three. Its voice is quite different, and it seems much more of a folk tale, with even stronger fantastic elements. Somehow it feels as if it grew entirely from Jones's notes for the other three books. It's worth reading, but should really be read before or after the other three books.
I adore it when women are given feminine magic that is just as powerful - or moreso - than that of men. That asides, it was a good solid DWJ book with quarreling families, adventure, and bloodshet that I think is typical for this quartet by now.
