https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/13568619-the-shadowhunter-s-codex
I don't care if some people think that this book is annoying or unnecessary, I'm excited. I'm going to add it to my Shadowhunter collection and I'm going to love reading it, too.my book blog: https://pagehaven.tumblr.com
THIS book has mentioned in clockwork angel with Tessa's arrival at the institute (spoiler but not really) and Will gave her The Shadowhunters Codex to gave her a chance to know Shadow World better by reading this book.For the another series that Cassandra Clare will write at the future, she write the novels just for people who likes reading about shadowhunters.
So stfu, i love the world that Cassandra's built and i want MORE because after i read tmi/tid, EVERY books I'm about to read just put me downOh and i hope this book is an illustration, so there will be photos and other interesting things, and the cover's please in hologram or something exciting.
And into a love triangle!~ One boy is brooding and angsting over a sad event in his past, and the other boy is so boring that he's hardly mentioned at all (Alec in the first Mortal Instruments book), only coming into the plot when necessity requires it.
I have only read three books (City of Bones, Clockwork Angel, and Clockwork Prince) of this metaverse, and I've just written quite a bit about it!What the heck is going to be in this, anyway?
I should have been forewarned when I picked up City of Bones and it described Clary as being rescued by 'sexy demon-hunters'.
Yes. Yes!!! YESS!!!!Best thing ever. Can't wait. I love the Mortal Instruments. I love the Infernal Devices. I can't wait for the Dark Artifices. I can't wait for the Bane Chronicles. And now I can't wait for this!!!

YESSSS! *pumps fist in triumph* I can now have a reference for when I am bored and have a pen-knife and want to carve some runes into my skin for funsies!!!
This was oh lord so so good.It was funny and interesting and informative as hell. Cassandra Jean is such an amazing artist and Joshua and the rest of them!Clary, Jace, Magnus and Simon's notes were hilarious. Ah, what a delight.
The Codex is the Codex itself, a textbook for new Shadowhunters, and also notes and art added in by Clary, commenting and updating things.
STOP.
JUST STOP.This will never be Hogwarts A History (aka the Encyclopedia that JK may hopefully someday write but maybe never will).
This will also never be:1) Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them (which also employed the whole 'extra doodles and notes from the main characters thing')2) Quidditch Through the Ages3) The Tales of Beedle the BardWhich were also actual books from the series that were turned into real books that fans could buy.MUST YOU STEAL ALL THE IDEAS?
I was scrolling through my to read list when I saw The Shadowhunters' Codex's cover. Why was I not informed that there was a cover and a release date?? September 2013!?!?! That's so far away and I have so little patience.
Es un libro hermoso, lleno de imágenes increíbles y con el que aprendes todo acerca del mundo de los cazadores de sombras.Las anotaciones de Clary, Jace y Simon me encantaron y me hicieron reír muchísimo. Estoy lista para ascender.
Perche sono una volpe e mi fa ridere una tempesta di volpi (dopo i tornado di squali che vuoi che sia) e poi Storm in Giapponese, anche Clary legge manga (oltre a Max finchè ...
Una di queste era Conclave che in originale è The Clave.
Ora io non so il latino e Cum di Cum Clavis potrebbe essere stato aggiunto al posto dell'articolo per lo The. Ma penso che alla fin fine possa passare e la metto come buona.
Sono piuttosto simili."Jace è considerato il materiale più favoloso da usare per fare uno Shadowhunter".Non posso che essere d'accordo.
I love the Shadowhunter world and all of Cassie's novels, and I expect to be a life-long fan of her novels.
A book like this is absolutely brilliant, and is ment to be used as a reference guide or an addition to the Shadowhunter tales (though I will most likely devour the entire book in a day or two, as is my usual for novels by Cassie.).
Can't wait to start reading this, though my current reading list already consists of Stephen King's Firestarter, Cassie's Clockwork Prince, and V.
** DURING THE READING **The Shadowhunter's Codex reads like a Wikipedia article on broccoli.
Oh my gosh.I'm truly excited to start reading ShadowHunters series by next year.I'm finally joining this fandom!
I want to know everything there is to know about the shadowhunter world! +.+
(hide spoiler)] And based on the book itself this is a "corrected" version by Clary, which only highlights her stupidity/egoism because her "corrections" are either non-present(view spoiler)[ (no extra info about the angel Raziel and she only gloated with her ability to make new runes) (hide spoiler)] or what she wrote clashed with what was written in the other books(view spoiler)[ (If gay marriage is legal in Idris, why is their society so allegedly homophobic as Isabelle claimed in City of Bones?) (hide spoiler)], respectively it was stuff only fans would care about(view spoiler)[, like when she states that she had an icepack on her hips from training with Jace (hide spoiler)].I guess some stuff is supposed to be comic relief, but it is so idiotic that they let the Hunters appear like lunatics (view spoiler)[, like Magnus's 17 reasons why people become Shadowhunters or the fact that the two examples for more colorful means of appointing their representatives in the Council include a dance competition and a giant chess tournament where the biggest looser is the representative (hide spoiler)].

3.5This shows the complex world Cassandra Clare created and it's amazing, I mean she has a great cretivity and this book just shows you that it's not something that she dreamed about and done. It's a lot of work and wow.To be honest some parts you already know (80% let's be honest) from the books since I've read all of them so far and also some things could have been explained better but in general it was really fast to read (if you have time because it took me months omg).
I know the book is not really necessary, but..The cover is so awesome! I will probably buy (and read) it just for the cover.Yes. I have a problem.EDIT: So I gave in.. and I bought it. It's a nice read though and the illustrations are beautiful.
I'm a die hard Shadowhunter fan, so duuh of course I loved this! :D
4 Stars.I didn't read every word of this because there was so much information I was slightly overwhelmed, but still whilst skimming sections, my love for this world grew and grew.My favourite parts were Clary, Simon and Jace's little notes around the information, I seriously miss them and now want to re-read the Mortal Instruments so badly.The illustrations were also beautiful and to anyone who adores the Shadowhunter chronicles as much as I do, read this!I'll enjoy refering to this whilst reading the books themselves :)
Why? Why? Why? We've had enough of this crap, Clare. Move on. Why don't you Write a book about mermaids or trolls or witches or zombies...demon fairy warriors from the Edo period. Anything other than these $#%@ing Nephilim! just retire comfortably and live off the completely undeserved money you earned from your piece of shit series?
Okay, I was really excited for his book when I bought it just because I love the shadowhunter world that Cassandra Clare created. It was a very quick book to get through and it doesn't take up all that much brain space. I am excited just to flip through it now and then and I would definitely recommend for diehard fans.
4.3/5Short story: I finally finished this book.
Here is why it took me this long lolSo I was reading this book on my train trip when I went to the Shadowhunters convention this July.
Then the post convention depression got me and this book reminded me too much of that period.
I can totally see this as a text book, because that's the feeling I had while reading it.
5 Out of 5 stars This taught me so much more of the Shadow world, it's very renjoyuable and the illustrations and little scribbles of Jace, Clary and Simon are amazing. It made the book feel much more alive and because of this it was very enjoyable. I would recommend this to anyone who enjoys TMI :)
The Shadowhunter's Codex was so, so good!I started the book thinking that it was for Shadowhunter's like some kind of Bible, and then I understood that the point of creating a Codex was for new Shadowhunter's, mundanes who became Shadowhunters, or for kids adopted by Shadowhunters, and I was kinda disappointed.
But when I got truly sucked up into it, I was in love!The way the Codex shows us the Shadow World is truly magical, and if I wanted to Shadowhunter's to be real first, and became one of them, now I wanted even more!
IT IS NOTOne think I thought that the Codex should have is the meaning of the runes.
I love it! I think it's such a great idea! :)
OH MY GOD desprately NEED to get this!! cant wait!! :D gah!
Manuale che un appassionato della Saga Shadowhunters non può non leggere, mi è stato molto utile per chiarire alcune cose.
Il volume alterna parti veramente interessanti con altre soporifere…Personalmente ho trovato i commenti di Simon, Clary e Jace, carini ma infantili…Bellissimi i disegni e bellissima la prima parte.Potrò mai essere una Shadowhuter nella prossima vita?
Mi sono persa elencando le armi, mi sono persa durante la descrizione dei demoni e ho continuato a perdermi fino alla fine, insomma SI sono una frana e non sarò mai una cacciatrice… ma alla fine mi accontento di essere una semplice mondana, peccato che non potrò mai incontrare un Herondale!
Noiosetto! >_<Con l’eccezione di alcuni particolari e degli appunti di Clary, Jace e Simon (onestamente simpatici), è anche abbastanza inutile.Una delle rare cose divertenti, è scritta da Magnus Bane sul “Perché si diventa Shadowhunters”.Tra i diciassette punti elencati troviamo:(view spoiler)[Un grosso uomo barbuto su una motocicletta volante è apparso e ti ha portato alla scuola degli Shadowhunters.(Nota: la presenza di una motocicletta volante fa supporre che l’uomo barbuto sia un vampiro.)
 (hide spoiler)]Ogni riferimento ad un’altra famosa saga, mi sa che non è causale :P
