https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3358574-high-adventure
A memoir of the author's days in the Lafayette Escadrille, the group of American pilots who fought for France in WWI before the United States entered the war.
When Hall returned to the States after his discharge, he began to work for the Atlantic Monthly and was sent overseas again to write a report about the Lafayette Escadrille.
Hall and another Lafayette pilot, Charles Nordhoff, were asked to collaborate on a history of the Lafayette Escadrille.
By the time Nordhoff left the islands a few years after divorcing his wife in 1936, he and James Norman Hall had collaborated on many articles and a few novels.
Good narratives about the author's own experiences in Lafayette Escadrille.Hall was commissioned as a captain in US Army Air Service in 1918 and commanded No. 94 Squadron. His aircraft malfunctioned in May, 1918 and crash-landed behind the German line. He ended the war as a POW and with 3 or 4 confirmed aerial victories (plus a couple of unconfirmed).He was famous for his Bounty Trilogy, co-authored with Charles Nordhoff.
Of the three air ace books listened to in the last few months, I find this one the most interesting.
Hall, an American, served in a French squadron, so he had better equipment than his countrymen (who, as Richenbacker in the previous book complains, were given neither modern machines or parachutes).His book is structurally odd, as it was published before the conclusion of the war: its final chapter is a letter written by Hall from a POW camp.
Recommended to those interested in military history of the period, and those who like autobiographies generally.This review originally appeared on book coasters
For World War I flying this was one of the best. The author took us from hopping around (I think they were called penguins) to the terrors of flying. I was right there flying on every mission. :-) Probably as many were killed learning to fly as were killed in combat. It has been a lot of years since I read this book but it is still in my mind as one of my favorites.
A well-written, but otherwise unremarkable story, about air combat during WWI.
A must read if you have any interest in early aviation. Available from Gutenberg and Librivox.
