https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1366387.Meet_Me_in_St_Louis
The book, on the other hand, is nothing extraordinary in the genre of happy-old-time-family books that aimed to assuage the anxieties of war time America.
Perhaps that was peculiar.)Sally Benson is a very capable and enjoyable writer, but the teenage girls she portrays are vain and vapid to a point that may set a modern reader's teeth on edge and the wildness of six-year-old Tootie, rendered on the page, lacks the charm of the Oscar winning performance turned in by seven-year-old Margaret O'Brien.The value of the book to a 21st century reader is probably its accuracy regarding the safety and freedom of children in 1903 -- a thing sadly lost now.
Anyone who knows the movie will find most of the familiar incidents from it, though they were switched around and condensed somewhat for the screenplay; but I felt like the book had a much more authentic, homey feel to it.
The Edwardian era is a favorite period of mine, and perhaps what I enjoyed most about this book is the way that author Benson sketches for us, in relatively few words, the sights, sounds and smells of a pleasant suburban neighborhood and the little details of furnishings, clothes, food, and other aspects of everyday life.(But Agnes and Tootie really are terrible little brats, though!)
So charming! I’ve loved the movie for as long as I can remember so don’t know why I never got around to reading the book until now. The movie captured all of the characters in the book so perfectly and I didn’t mind at all that the plot was different. This is a wonderful comfort read.
The book is divided into the months between June 1903 and May 1904.
The "chapter" months are very episodic, almost like a series of short stories, as there aren't any strong arcs to speak of.
One of the scenes I found most interesting was when Mrs. Smith said she could understand why someone would want only one child, creating an ABSOLUTE UPROAR in the house from her five kids.
No matter how hard she tries, life is always uncertain and keeps her anxious about taking care of everyone.So. Light and enjoyable read, but with some darker undertones that kept it interesting.
Many of the stories in "Meet Me in St. Louis" were originally published in the New Yorker (Sally Benson - often writing under a pen name - was a regular contributor) before being compiled into a book.
Personally, I like the book better than the movie.
The father is a less present character, perhaps representing the role of the father in an early 20th century family.We are often told about how we have lost our way as a society, we spoil our children letting them get away with murder.
Unlike the movie, the party consists of the only two girls and six young men, not a ratio most of us with teenagers would encourage.
Like me, you may know and love the 1944 movie starring Judy Garland.
There's Mother (Anna), Father (Lonnie), Lon (18), Rose (17), Esther/Judy Garland (16), Agnes (12), Tootie (6), Grandpa, Katie the cook and assorted pets and dolls.
Rose is the beauty of the family and Esther is described as small, dark, dimpled with a pretty singing voice.
Rose and Esther are boy crazy and can't wait to find the right man to marry.
The Smiths are a close-knit family and love each other despite their differences.The book is pretty much like the movie but lacks the charm of the musical numbers.
I think most people pick up this book because they enjoyed the 1940s film adaptation.
And I was among those people.
I was pleasantly surprised to see a lot of familiar scenes and characters, and happy that my favorite of the Smith family (Agnes) was still enjoyable.
But there was a certain flightiness to the characters and plot that surprised me; Esther and Rose, in particular, were far more shallow in the book.
Little vignettes focusing on every month up to the fair was a delightful way to enjoy the family (and a fascinating comparison to the film's seasonal approach).
I fell in love with the movie, and wanted to fall in love with the book.
Unfortunately, the book really needs the movie's added glamor and allure and whole better ending.
John Truitt (Esther's love interest) and Warren Sheffield (Rose's) are not in the book, and so the Christmas dance is comparatively unimportant.
So without Christmas and staying in St. Louis, the climax sort of blahs out.
(hide spoiler)] Just like real life, of course, but that too makes watching (or re-watching) the movie that much more fun.The book stands alone okay, but gee whiz, if you have a choice ....
The book is very different from the movie, yet there remains a lot of the same scenes including the cake walk scene where Tootie sings "I was hmm last night dear mother." This is my favorite movie of all time so it was great to see these characters expanded and a few additional stories.
The movie is actually better than the book, which is rare but the movie is so epically good and I mean.....
What beats Judy Garland and Tom Drake?
I pictured Margret O'Brien speaking the dialogue of Tootie all the way through.
It was a good quick read.
Love this book, which is nothing like the movie. Reading it again for the nth time and still charmed by it. Amusing family stories but occasionally there's something that gives it a little more edge - I know when I first read it in junior high, I didn't notice the paragraph where the grandfather remembers his time in Andersonville prison. Which makes you see him as more than the quirky grandpa who enjoys teasing his granddaughters.
Oh my! It is not often I say I prefer the movie but...this novel lacked the warmth and endearing family feeling the movie conveyed. I was startled at how down-right nasty they could be to one another! While it was interesting to finally read it and experience it I cannot necessarily recommend it to anyone. If you love the movie, keep that love and warmth close...and skip the book!
Disclaimer : I have never seen the Judy Garland movie.
Really what it comes down to is this : the Smith family are a middle-class family in St Louis in 1903-1904.
Agnes and Tootie are 12 and 6, respectively, and are firmly considered "the children".
It seems that this family spends most of its time playing tricks on each other, especially on young Tootie.
So between Rose's preening whenever something wearing pants comes into sight, and the tormenting of Tootie, I didn't find the family particularly nice or attractive.
perhaps I should watch the movie.
It seems as though, looking at other reviews, because I have never seen the movie I have an advantage when it comes to how much I enjoyed Meet Me in St. Louis.
Just like Junior Miss, Meet Me in St. Luis depicts vignettes from what can be deduced to be an upper middle class family in the city.
The city is different and the family larger but it retains a lot that made Junior Miss shine in my eyes.
I'm not quite sure where the word "charming", seen in a lot of the other reviews, fits into this book, but it definitely is a fun and entertaining collection of stories.
While I can definitely see how the book informed the screenplay (actually I could see word-for-word dialog pulled from it!), It simply did not have the charm and heart that the movie brings to the story.
Certain parts of the book were cut out for the movie which is to be expected or most movies would be 5 hours long!
But the ones that were cut Didn't seem to add much to the story anyway.
I was very glad to be able to finally read this after all these years and am glad that it was recently reprinted, although I must say I was a little disappointed in it.
A quick read nonetheless.
This was a reprint - originally written in 1941 about the 1904 World's Fair held in St. Louis.
It is loosely based on the author's own family and since I live it St. Louis and have seen the movie many times and so have my grandchildren, I thought I would read the book and give it to them.
It is written somewhat amateurishly and doesn't explain very well what is going on.
The movie was great and having seen it before reading the book, it helped to understand what the book was about because the movie gave the background information that the book didn't supply.
It sets the tone by opening with an absolutely hysterical prank involving magic ponies that makes me wish I had a daughter just so I could pull it on her.
But my favorite part of the whole book is in the editor's note from 1941 which chides "the younger generation" (that's "the greatest generation who saved western civilization" for us Xers and Millennials) for being cynical jerks who need to know what life used to be.
If you're from St Louis and romanticize it like I do, you'll love their trips to familiar places and enjoy picturing the places that are gone.
This was a darling book and just as cute as the movie or vice versa. I "borrowed" this off my Grandpa's shelf when I was there this summer and was delighted to find my Grandma Dorothy Louise's name hand written inside. She has been gone for 20 years this year and my baby girl Polly Lou shares a middle nickname with her.
Series of vignettes about the Smith family, one per month in the year leading up to the opening of the 1904 St. Louis World Fair. Charming, funny, sweet; I love how teenage girls are just always teenage girls, whenever they lived. I never knew the movie was based on a book before this week, and I'm glad I read it, but really - movie is better.
It's by no means my first time reading Meet Me in St. Louis, but having dealt with the 1904 World's Fair in many permutations in my work at the History Museum, I come to it now with a greater appreciation of Benson's skill at evoking a time and a place.
This book is an easy breezy enjoyable read! I have always loved older movies, they are pretty much all I watch. Having not been able to see this movie the book has given me enough satisfaction until I can find the film.
Loved the movie since I was a little kid. I was thrilled to find this beat up old paperback at a book sale. Tootie is even funnier in the book.
Completely charming!
Well I am a bit partial being from St. Louis but it's still such a cute story. I love getting to glimpse back in time for a while.
I started this a year ago and just finished this month. Yayyyeee. This book is kind of weird. Tootie's really weird. Lon's funny. The end.
This is one of my favorite movies. The book did not disappoint!
I don't say this very often, but the movie was much better than the book.
This book was the basis for the Judy Garland musical. It's a charming look at family life in the early 1900's - a wonderful read. Highly recommended!
Lovely! I will surely want to reread this book once a year. Possible once a season!
Sweet and charming with glimpses of Edwardian life. Sadly, out of print but not difficult to scrounge up a copy a d worth the effort of doing so.
"Right here where we live. Right here in St. Louis."
