https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1030370.The_Collected_Stories_of_Katherine_Mansfield
I was going through my books, almost forgotten now than I am cheating on them with my kindle (not so often, mind you!), and I found an old favorite that I read many years ago.
I enjoyed so much these short-stories, I had to include  The Collected Stories of Katherine Mansfield here.
When you read her marvelous stories, you travel throughout Europe and meet common or peculiar people.
I also loved the collection included in ‘The German Pension’ and The Garden Party.From Miss Brill:
From The Garden Party and Other Stories:
From The Collected Stories of Katherine Mansfield:
I love these short stories so much.
Of course, the one is better than another but...
they're great.
The way she makes a short story feel as a full novel, that's masterful.
You get the feeling they are complete, that nothing is missing.
They are a full grown entity on theirselves.
The way she descripes what happens or often, what things look like, what people hear or see, how things are, what people think...
Her stories are like little jewels wrapped in silk and step for step the jewel gets unfold until she is there in her most precious way of being.
Both stories are set in Tasmania or New Zealand, I think..After 'At the Bay', I skipped forward to the final collection in this volume, 'In a German Pension' because it seems to have been written first and I was curious to read Mansfield's first experiments with short stories.
If she'd written it, I'd have read it.The other five stories in the collection haven't got the same energy.In 'A Truthful Adventure' from the Something Childish collection, one of the characters is traveling to the city I live in.
Il respiro corto del racconto mi mette l'ansia e mi sento quasi sempre in dovere di leggerne almeno dieci di seguito per raggiungere quel livello di soddisfazione simile alla lettura di un capitolo di romanzo; leggere è una droga e ci sono vari dosaggi, il racconto è per me come fumare una sigaretta con poca nicotina.Katherine Mansfield, sicuramente grazie a quella ricetta perfetta, mi ha insegnato che leggere racconti è un'arte, tanto quanto lo è scriverli.
Questa è una grossa responsabilità che la forma del racconto trasferisce sul lettore.Virginia era gelosa del talento di Katherine, questo è vero, ma non erano nemiche, anzi basta leggere il (da me sovente citato) diario della Woolf per constatare l'ammirazione e la dipendenza, anche post-mortem, per la Mansfield.
Sono sempre stata curiosa a riguardo dell' unico essere di cui Virginia Woolf fosse invidiosa.E così eccomi qua.E -vi chiederete voi- l' invidia era giustificata?Mettiamo per un attimo che voi sbadatamente non abbiate visto le 5 stellette.Capita talvolta di imbattersi in artisti unici nel loro campo che pur usando le tecniche di altri, magari anche affinandole,riescono a creare qualcosa di unico, Stradivari costruiva violini e altri strumenti (e non è che non si costruissero già da anni prima) in una maniera semplicemente unica e perfetta, che nessuno più nel corso della storia è riuscito ad eguagliare, Michelangelo con marmo di Carrara, utilizzato da tantissimi altri scultori della sua epoca e non solo, ha creato capolavori.
Last night it was cold and raining with a fierce wind. On the train home all I could think about was soup. I got to the front door before realising I didn't have my keys. Luckily my (slightly unorganised) brother had left a box of books in my garage. I sat down on the broken rocking chair in the damp, cobwebby garage and lost myself in these sad stories. I really like her writing and found it totally fitting. Really good winter reading.
Bright moon-light hung upon the lifted oars like water, and the green waves glittered in the due."It is not just the impressionist obsessions with light which Mansfield was influenced by, but also some their social and psychological insights; her intimate and sensual descriptions of the female characters are reminiscent of Renoir, once can also spot the influences of French literature and poetry in some of the melancholic descriptions;"The far-away sky, a bright, pure blue-was reflected in the puddles and the drops , swimming along the telegraph poles, flashed into points of light.
I first discovered a battered paperback pirate edition of Journal of Katherine Mansfield in a second-hand shop, and read it literally to pieces before it ocurred to me to look for her short stories.
Those who have read her Journal in either the short form or the larger, exhaustive Katherine Mansfield Notebooks: Complete Edition will recognise jottings that were later expanded and completed.
The influence of other authors is more pronounced in "Pension", particularly Chekov whom Mansfield so admired, in the final story, "A Blaze." If Elsa wasn't inspired by Professor Sebrekov's wife Elena from Uncle Vanya, I'd like very much to know where she came from.
This will not be a terribly thoughtful review, just an expression of excitement.
I don’t know how I got this far in my life without anybody telling me what a wonderful writer Katherine Mansfield was.
She was a master of the modern short story.
When I consider most of the 20C short story collections I’ve read, I think that Mansfield got there first, and did it better.
And there was a terrible moment when I saw why Virginia Woolf felt so threatened by her, because, if I’d read the book with no cover or front matter, I’d have thought, Wow, Virginia’s in really good form here!
Mansfield glimmers and sparkles like a Monet painting, and prismatically collects poignant little images and pieces of life.
Her short stories thrill me, and whenever I need a new taste of life, I seek her out.
When the woman meets a man she once loved in Dill Pickle and “the tiger which had slumbered peacefully roused and woke himself”- and the girl in Garden Party, whose entire life of luxury is shattered when she comes upon a cottage in which the father of the household has just died, the “inward expression when one has swallowed cream.” Beautiful, unique writer.
These stories were written around the time of WW1 and yet they are so fresh and the acute observations of human interaction resonate 100 years on. I particularly enjoyed the stories set in New Zealand - a window on a genteel life not quite English. This whole collection is just a feast.
Reading amassed short story collection(s), in this case 5 books comprised of 88 stories can be a slog or as here, a gliding motion of heart/soul bearing the reader on a time and place tableau ticker where social history comes to life, mindful prose built with gusto vision.
She lived a short, emphatic and tempestuous life where her writing kept her through the choppy surf of fulfillment.
Her stories show how well her eye/ear took in her time's engagements - she unflinchingly lays out unflattering looks at quotidian life in its raw and dirty state.
Introduction and NotesSelected Further ReadingBliss--Prelude--Je ne Parle pas Français--Bliss--The W
The only short-story writer that comes close to Chekhov. Brilliant.
Stories like Je ne parle pas français and The Dolls House made me cry, especially the latter for its brutal portrayal of weakness of men and women and the pain they inflict on innocents because of their own failures!
Long back I had read Simone de Beauvoir’s The Second Sex where she said that only three female authors have explored ‘the given’ – the disproportionate struggle for women to seek what is given for men – education, economic power, political platform; the three woman who have managed to question this were Emily Bronte, Virginia Woolf and Katherine Mansfield.
Certainly, one would not write so eruditely and accurately about a specific people without having immediate experience living as, or at least in the company of, those brittle individuals themselves.
If the tired recurring plot devices and settings become laborious to get through, at least the crafting of the stories themselves can be observed and inspected, providing some form of academic inspiration.Best taken in small doses, lest the reader particularly enjoys an extended reading experience taken under the grey London sky, with a mouthful of ash and honey.
Ho usato per insegnare a Mansfield in inglese o di Naipaul "Miguel Street" o di Hemingway "Kilimanjaro". Esilarante satira su buone maniere, dove i tedeschi sono come gli americani, sulle funzioni corporee franche. "I tedeschi a base di carne" satira subordinazione delle mogli tedesche, i loro mariti alimentazione. "Il Barone" satira l'ossessione tedesca con il cibo che porta all'obesità, a cui noi americani oggi li superano. Ho ricevuto alcune buone carte da universitari matricole donne soprattutto.
4-4.5/5
Өгүүллэгүүдийн төгсгөлүүд нь үнэхээр сайн
Better than Virginia Woolf.
Maybe I should have bought the selected stories rather than the collected stories. I read a story every couple of days for the last few months before going to sleep. All the stories are interesting little vignettes and many stay with you long after you close the book, but the old favorites really stand out, 'The Garden Party, 'Bliss', and , of course, one of my favorite stories of all time - 'The Doll's House'. It is one of those stories that I can read over and over again and find more in it.
There's no doubting Katherine Mansfield was a master of the short story - and that her modernist style has been a huge influence.You can see it in the work of contemporaries like Virginia Woolf, but also feel echoes in authors right up to the present day.Her own influences are clear too - Chekhov being the most obvious.
These have poignancy particularly since the best of them - A Married Man's Story - has all the makings of another classic.Mansfield hailed originally from New Zealand, and perhaps that's significant.I heard an obituary recently of another great master of the short story - the late Irish writer Wiliam Trevor.
I have heard of Katherine Mansfield (of course!, "our" New Zealand author; world-famous) since I was at school, and here am I reading her for the first time at age 50!!!
Now I have devoured these stories I envy her even more, but I've added love to that (oh dear, am I sounding like some besotted "convert"?).
But I also loved the many set here in New Zealand, because even though they're a hundred years ago, the physical descriptions of the country and the sea and the wind (in Wellington!) and the plants ....
Ricordavo che Virginia Woolf avesse espresso la sua opinione sulla signora Mansfield, ma non ricordavo esattamente quale fosse.
Leggendo i commenti qui su Goodreads scopro che quello che non ricordavo era l'invidia di Virginia per lei.Tesoro...
forse la tua testa dava già segni di squilibrio quando hai scritto questa cosa, perché anche con le mani legate, a occhi chiusi e su una gamba sola sei più brava tu.I racconti della signora Mansfield sì, sono carini, scritti bene, ma dopo due o tre si assomigliano tutti e risultano noiosi.
Sono storielle carine di fatti comuni, ma niente a paragone con la grandezza di Virginia.
I finally finished this.
It didn't take a long time because I didn't like it.
I think that I struggle with finishing short story collections because I have a little ADD sometimes...
I finish a short story, set the book aside and go cook dinner or do something with the kids and then I pick up a different book and read that.
Mansfield might have been a wee bit mental, but there is nothing wrong with her imagery, setting, character study or use of language.
So glad I read it.
Katherine Mansfield is one of the greats of Modernist literature.
She may not get the recognition she deserves but she should be spoken of in the same hushed and reverent tones that people generally reserve for Eliot, Joyce, Woof, Nabokov and the many other titans of the Modernist canon.
There's nothing not to love about Mansfield, she's perfect.
As far as writers of short fiction go, I'd be tempted to count her on par with Borges (someone I once described as "the greatest writer in any language"), which is basically the strongest endorsement I can offer.
Please read her, more people need to experience her work.
не ми се иска да зацвъркам възсторжено, като прехласнато птиче, но няма друг достъпен ми начин да изразя усещането и удоволствието, което изпитах прочитайки тези изящни кратки разкази. катрин мансфийлд, в личната ми класация, подреждам пред чехов и кортасар, като майстор в областта на кратката проза. пленително!
Some stories really enjoyable. Others disappointing. Had not read Katherine Mansfield so didn't know what to expect. Not as gripping as others such as Edith Wharton or Margaret Atwood. Did not read all of them which is not like me so might not be doing her justice.
Mansfield deserves more recognition, her stuff is brilliant
Whilst a three-star rating may seem a bit harsh for this body of works-I really struggled to get through this book.
I did however, thoroughly enjoy some of the stories in this body of work.
I wish I had read up about her before getting half-way through the book, as I feel I would have empathised with the characters/messages/morals of the stories more if I had.
Whilst I usually agree with this, as the intro tends to analyse certain stories in great detail, this intro was very sparse, and having read it first would have given me more insight into Mansfield as a person.
