https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/130206.Let_the_Circle_Be_Unbroken
The setting of the book takes place during the Great Depression.
In addition, everyone in the family must make sacrifices either they all be together or separate, hence the title, “Let the Circle Be Unbroken.” In the end, the Logan’s learn that being a united and happy family counts more than letting their financial problems become a barrier.
My favorite quote was, “‘Yes, sir,’ Stacey said, limping to meet them.
Taylor’s writing style is mostly written using western dialogue and puts a human element point of view to the Great Depression and the racial problems of the time.
Cassie and her brothers continue to grow up and learn about life's challenges.
Their friend TJ is is unjustly tried by an all-white jury which brings a lot of heartache.
Suzella, a cousin from New York, stays with the Logans for awhile.
She is both pretty and popular and Cassie struggles with jealousy.
Suzella is able to pass as a white girl and that causes trouble.
In the hope that he can earn extra money, Stacey runs away from home.
Instead he learns how terrible it is to work in the cane fields and that home is the best place to be.
Let the Circle Be Unbroken continues the story of the Logan family and their ordeals during the Great Depression. Definitely a classic, this book gives readers a look at an era of struggle, hard work and hope for the future.
I love this book too! It goes with Roll of Thunder Hear My Cry and The Road to Memphis. I think Mildred Taylor is a great author!
I also liked how Taylor shows how parents can be angry at each other while still loving each other, as well as other nuances of marriage, which can be a hard concept to communicate to younger readers.This book isn't quite a 5-star read for me because I felt like Taylor dropped many issues right as they were reaching their climax, rather than fully exploring their consequences.
(hide spoiler)] Perhaps Taylor thought the consequences of these events were too heavy to fully explore in a children's book; but if that's the case, why introduce them in the first place at all?Constantly dropping storylines and starting new ones also gave the book an episodic, choppy feel at times.
DNF at pg 94, 24% *spoilers below*Have you ever read a great book and then the sequel is just....bleh..and awful......and boring.
I rarely DNF books, like NEVER.
In fact it was heartbreaking how he was proven innocent and STILL received the death penalty based on racial prejudice.
Pisses me off so much that he was proven innocent and because he was black he was still GIVEN THE DEATH SENTENCE.
True I never liked TJ but he did not deserve what he got.Anyway, it was a terribly disappointing sequel and I feel bad DNFing it because I don't do that.
Excellent sequel to Roll of Thunder Hear My Cry. Adresses issues of racism through the lives of a black community in Mississippi in 1934. The struggle to keep their land, the biased trial of their friend TJ, voting rights, interracial marriage, and their biracial cousin Suzella who lives with the Logan family and and brings changes to their lives.
In reading this within the first few chapters my heart went out because the same emotions that was written within this book during the depression-segregating era is the same emotions that one of my friends is dealing with with her mixed race granddaughter in today's society.
Wonderful book, personally still like the first book "The Land" the most out of this series but I love that time of our History as well...But Ms Taylor has written all these books almost as equals and I'm glad I am reading them
Really enjoyed re-reading this childhood favorite!
There are some scenes that can be intense and unnerving(like the scene in which Stuart and his friends set out to humiliate Suzella's father), and some small things that some parents may not want a ten-year-old to read about yet.
I really liked Roll of Thunder, Hear My Cry, so naturally I was eager to read the sequel.
I did like the subplot with Cousin Suzella, though.
Let the Circle Be Unbroken did have a solid beginning, and the subplots with T.J. and Suzella did effectively continue the intense drama of the previous book.
Review below PSA.  I cannot get enough of this series on audiobook. This is my third book about the Logan family and Let the Circle Be Unbroken does not disappoint. As far as series about black children growing up in the post civil-war south, I'm not sure there are any better (and if there are please recommend them). Cassie is just as sassy and intelligent as the little girl we first met in Roll of Thunder Here My Cry. During this book she is not entirely likable, but realistically flawed and m
I cannot get enough of this series on audiobook.
As far as series about black children growing up in the post civil-war south, I'm not sure there are any better (and if there are please recommend them).
This is a book about family, growing up in the segregated South and learning what is right in the face of prejudice.
Honestly if you're library has this series on audiobook request it now.
For this review and more check out my blog Galavanting Girl Books
I really liked this book. I thought it was very good because it really depicted the life of an African-American family in the 1930's. I also liked how all of the characters were strong, independent, and were able to make decisions themselves. I also liked that all of the story was woven together, leading up to one plot, then another, and another. I didn't like it so much because it hurt to see the cruelty of the white people to the African-Americans at the time.I would definitely recommend it, but you should first read Roll of Thunder, Hear My Cry.
This is the book I am reading for my book report at school. It's the sequal to Roll of Thunder, Hear My Cry. So far it's good. Well I'm past the trial, but I won't tell you the outcome. Since then life has been hard. Cousin Bud's daughter, Suzelle, coming to live with them, Cassie getting scarlet fever, and Stacey running away from home to get a job. I'm almost done with the book. I hope they find Stacey! I finished the book, and it sort of leaves you hanging...I really liked it though.
WOW!
T.J Avery faces a death sentence, which makes no sense considering what the truth is and how much sense the trial made.Suzella is Cassie's cousin.
She is also mixed blood.
She comes to live with Cassie and the other Logans for a while.
Ther is a lot of stuff in this book that is outstanding.
Mrs. Lee Annie Lees also registers to vote.
Her plan ends up backfiring, though.
Stacey and one of his friends runs away for new hope and a job and money to help his parents for their land.
This book is so amazing!
This book is so amazing!
Our narrator Cassie is ten and eleven in this Logan family installment. I didn't find this one any easier to read than the first. This novel is long and slow until the last 90 pages. It features a cousin with a white mama who wants to pass for white herself, an old woman sharecropper who is determined to register to vote (even though she risks her livelihood and life to do so), and talk of a union of poor farmers, both black and white.15/60 tbr box.
Oh how I loved this one! I can't remember any specifics because I read it a few years ago but I do remember loving it so much!
The stomach-turning scenes of how despicably most of the whites treated the blacks, the reality of every day life in such an unfair world, was difficult to read, but there was also the beautiful picture of family, faith, perseverance, and hope for a better world, woven throughout the book.
Usually I like to read feel-good stories with happy endings, but even though not everything is a happy ending in these books, there's still some victories they can celebrate and there's the sense that there's hope and strength in the Logan family to carry them through.
Let the Circle be Unbroken, a novel by Mildred D.
Taylor, is a heartbreaking book that ventures into the dark times of segregated racism in the 1930s in America.
Taylor explores so many irrational issues that raged during the 1930s in America including racism, voting rights, segregation, and severe poverty.
Personally, I for the first time deeply thought about how extreme racism have affected so many black people and families.
After concluding the book, it makes everybody of all races today feel fortunate that we don’t have to face the type of extreme racism that many millions had to encounter in the 1930s.
This children’s book continues the story of the strong African-American family farming their own land in early twentieth century Mississippi, who were first introduced in the Newbury Award winning Roll of Thunder, Hear My Cry. The Logans must draw on all their strength, faith, and sense of family and community as they and their neighbors face segregation, racism, and injustice both legally and socially.
The numerous storylines somewhat subtracted from each story’s effect, as the book rapidly switched from one to the other.
But I found the pages flew by as Cassie and her family continue their fight for survival and a better future.
LogansThis is the continuation story of the Logan family from the book, Roll of Thunder, Hear My Cry. The book is set in the 1930s during the depression and deals with the AAA and the government paying farmers to let their land lay fallow. The story also deals with a Logan cousin who married a white woman and sends his daughter to stay with the Logans, Stacey Logan leaving home to work in the Louisiana canefields, and the racism in Mississippi and Louisiana. A very good book and I highly recommend it.
"Let the Circle Be Unbroken" is a sequel to " Roll of Thunder Hear My Cry" this novel is about the Logan family in Mississippi during the depression.T.J. one of the main characters punishment is approaching, Stacey runs away to find work, and the Logan children's cousin, Suzella Rankin, tries to pass herself off as a white person, but fails which leads to embarrassing consequences. This novel has a lot of ups and downs but i still enjoyed it. I would recommend this to anyone.
I loved these books as a kid. As an adult, I am astonished to discover that this is a series of more than 2 books, and that these aren't books 1 and 2. How on earth did I miss that? They stand alone really well.
It was ok i liked "roll of thunder hear my cry" beter than this one
This book is really good if you like medieval fantasy. It flows great but I felt like at the beginning they did not tell about the characters enough. But I think it's just one of those books you just gradually get to know them throughout the book.
Stacey :((((
Hasted ending. Many issues left unaccounted.But the sad and bitter rang true, and the emotions were vivid.Best read together with roll of thunder hear my cry.
Another good book by Mildred Taylor
Excellent story. Excellent recounting of family history. Suspenseful, harrowing in spots.Slightly slow in middle.
It's a bit longer than the prior, but still a good read. Interesting insights into a bad time in history.
An excellent continuation of the Logan family story.
