https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/114936.The_Dragon_and_the_George
A Dragon/George fierce and big as a house who will jump up on a tree to avoid fighting with a knight in shining armour.
(I kid you not my friends - he jumps and stays perched up on a tree!!!)A huge and fearsome English wolf who will purr like a kitten when a beautiful maiden scratches him between his ears.
A powerful wizard with a bad case of stomach ulcer, mere dragons and outlaws and let us not forget not one but two ladies in bad need of rescue.Add in a few harpies and other evil creatures as well as a fight to right the cosmic balance and there you go: The perfect recipe for a funny light read to help you wind down at the end of a long day.
What starts as a vacation from his Earth troubles for Jim, ends up with him taking a stand in the unending struggle between light and darkness - an overused cliche in fantasy, but reflective of our need for a moral compass and for a cause to fight for in life.
Pure fun...rather unorthodox and original when it showed up.
Humorous/adventure.Jim Eckert finds himself in one of the most spectacularly frustrating and weird situations that has been imagined in the worlds of fantasy.
In a quest to rescue his girl friend who's been "aported" to another world (apparently "aported" there by a crazy professor who can't get her back, but offers to send Jim after her) Jim finds himself in the body of a dragon.
In a world of powerful wizards, jousting knights in armor Jim is a dragon and "of course" Angie his girl is still human.
In most fantasy novels, the hero (typically a knight) slays the villian (typically a dragon) and saves someone (again, typically, a princess).
When a science experiment runs afoul of the laws of physics, the main character, Jim, and his love interest, Angie, are sucked into a fantasy realm.
Angie is quickly taken hostage by the realm's inhabitants.
Ironically, while on his quest to save his damsel in distress, he partners up with a knight and ferocious talking wolf, among other memorable characters.The Dragon and the George is a fun, funny read, an ironic fresh twist on hackneyed fantasy plots.
3.5 stars
An absolutely perfect Fantasy novel. A timeless classic. Light-hearted and very fast paced. It belongs on every Fantasy fan's reading list.
2.5I had severe issues with the blandness of many characters, the short-changing of the action scenes and the relatively inconsequential plot.
I also admit my bias to having adored "Flight of Dragons" as a child, and this book pretty much only shares character names and the idea of a man transported into a dragon's body.
I prefer the movie characters, though some of them are more fleshed out in this version.
I don't find any particularly interesting, with maybe he exception of the wolf.
Maybe he improves in the other books, but I won't be reading those.
Like many memories from our youth, it wasn't quite as good as I remembered, however, I did enjoy it enough to want to read more in the series and see what happened to the characters.
The writing is a bit dated and the story is simpler than most of the fantasy written today.
It is a good story and fun to read.
If it was written today, it would probably fall into the "youth fantasy" genre.
Many years later, I was in a thrift store and saw this book and on discovering that the movie was loosely based on it I decided to buy it.For those who have watched the movie you should be aware that it is VERY loosely based on the book.
The basic concept of a 20th century man being sent back to a historic fantasy world and trapped in a dragons body is there and the characters from the movie are in the book too, but the story itself is completely different.The story is excellent and the characters are realistic.
The people talk and act as they would in a historic way as opposed to a fantasy world.
I first read perhaps all of these books back in high school, and from that era, they're the only genre series I've actually come back to and still liked. Not that there aren't issues: there are plenty.But that's why I've just added a guilty-pleasures shelf, because it's far too late for me to actually come up with reasons why I like them so much. I'll have to come back to it later (maybe after I check out the second book, tomorrow).
Here are both:[2005] I've wanted to read this novel ever since I found out that it was the inspiration for the animated movie Flight of Dragons---you know, the one with James Eckert, the contemporary academic who finds himself trapped in a mystical age in the body of a dragon named Gorbash, who teams up with another dragon named Smrgol, a wolf named Aragh, a knight named Sir Brian Neville-Smythe, a wizard named Carolinus, and an Amazon archeress named Danielle to rescue his fiancee Angela from the Dark Powers.And that's about where the movie departs from the book.While the movie was co-inspired both by Wayne Anderson's illustrations and Peter Dickinson's meticulously researched non-fiction monograph The Flight of Dragons, this novel sports "only" a Boris Vallejo cover and skimps on dragon mechanics.
Dickson's "modern man goes medieval" fantasy novel is enjoyable and easy to read, if a little silly in places and very much of the fantasy literature of its time, i.e. Dungeons and Dragons by way of Mark Twain goofiness and Conan The Barbarian world-building.
Emotions are not exactly given much stage time either, though all the female characters exist to be objects of desire (to Dickson's credit, he gives all of them brains, if not very much to actually do), and so the content never rises much beyond basic entertainment, but all said and done it's still better than the average Piers Anthony novel, so if you're looking for a snack in armor- this book's got your name on it.
Fun, old-fashioned fantasy read. The magic is old school (the references to astral projection made me laugh), but the story is funny and light-hearted with a really good battle at the end. Enjoyed the characters and the soul searching done by at least one of them. And I liked that many of the characters do some growing and changing as the story moves along.
This book is OK, I guess, if you're a teenager who hasn't read much fantasy. Otherwise, it's pretty boring.
I guess I can't give this an impartial review because I've read the whole series and know so much more about the world and how magic works there (which is one of the reasons why I love the it so much), but I can say with certainty that it is a fun (and rather short, compared to the others) read.
If you're looking for a quick fantasy romp, certainly give this a try, and then please consider reading the others in the series too!There is a spot of inconsistency from this first book to the next.
I do seem to remember reading somewhere that this was expanded from a short story he had published earlier...
I enjoyed watching as the character "Jim" grew and learned something about himself, and finding that he did not like all that he saw.
He used that knowledge to begin changing his actions, and even though the effect was not immediate, there were places where we saw a positive impact.
I liked the dragon Smorgl, and the mere-dragon Secoh, but most of the others were peripheral to the story, even Borgash, so it was difficult to know if they would have been likable.The best part of the story though was it ended on a positive note, with an eye to a permanent sociological change.
3.5I started to lose interest when all the companions were together and kept facing 2-page obstacles (fog and darkness and sandmirks) toward the end because they knew where they were going, but it got better.
Also, I liked the end better than I expected.
The people of this world were rough, but Jim came to recognize the necessity of that.The Auditing Department could seem like it was just there to grant Deus Ex Machina moments, but I thought it was an intriguing addition.I admit I won't be reading more.
It was a fun idea, but it just wasn't written brilliantly like Sanderson's books or Aaron's book.
Our Hero gets whisked away to another world, a world with knight, trolls and wizards, where he needs to fight the forces of darkness to rescue his true love.
But there's a twist, in this new world he is a dragon.
Dickson (born in my home town of Edmonton -according to Wikipedia) has taken a familiar set up added the dragon element and created an enjoyable if familiar tale.
I would like to have seen more about dragons though- I don't believe this was explored as much as it could have been, leaving the story a little bit cliche and mundane.
The Dragon Knight series starts with this novel and is and will be one of my most favorite series until the day I die. It's about a young man who is transported into the body of a dragon in a medieval fantasy world in search of the woman he loves. Check it out, read this book and the second in the series, if you aren't hooked by then you have permission to punch me square in the face.
Приятно и забавно фентъзи.
2,5 parce que le côté un peu kitsch a séduit mon âme nostalgique lol
I also appreciated how strong Danielle was in her own right in this very patriarchal world, and how she would not let anyone force her to do what she did not want to do – though her neat-and-tidy ending, especially after the very pointed and nuanced conversation she had alone with Jim, was less than pleasing given how vocal she had been about what she did or did not want throughout the book.
I'm just finishing the 9th book in this series.
I did not know then , and in fact not until about a month ago that there were now so many in the series.
I'll be starting in on one of his other series next, or again The Dorsaii books.I like that this man writes about how people get ready for battles, and how unexpected events sort of wreck plans, and aren't seen so much awesome, but more annoying, terrifying, and just plain pains in the ass for people who are just trying to get on with 'everyday life" .
I can't really point at anything that was particularly good in this book.
It's just been too long since I read a book with actual heroes who go out to defeat evil and rescue their loved ones without angsting about it for half a book first.
Although I prefer science fiction stories, I like my heroes fantasy-style.
Like a lot of fantasy, the hero is from our reality and somehow gets sucked into a fantasy land.
I can't think of anything particularly interesting about the story.
Word to the wise: there are nine books, but you can safely read the first as a stand-alone.
As a curiosity I decided to read this tome in preparation for my summer family's reunion during which we decided to re-watch a favorite movie from our youth--Flight of Dragons.
This book is one of two source books upon which the movie is based.Some brief thoughts: I absolutely loved the idea behind a magic auditing department.
Loved reading the passages that made it into the movie in some form or another.
In the movie it was an evil wizard but he was a no-show in the book.
As with The Last Unicorn (last summer's family reunion book-read / movie-rewatch combo), this book was a very enjoyable read.
In the story the dragon and the George a guy who became a dragon was to rescue her promised wife from an evil dragon who slaved her but he can't rescue her on his own he goes to a magic land were there is brave Georges and he needs the help of one of them only the strongest and the bravest then after all that of picking one George he found him then they both went to the mountain were the evil dragon was and rescued the dragons promised wife.
I liked this story because it had lots of action and fights.

Gordon R.
Dickson's "The Dragon and the George" is a fine start to his "Dragon Knight" series.
The universe Dickson describes is interesting and the plot well-done.
The characters' behavior might be a bit simple at times, but that gives the book it's charm.
Well, maybe "charm" is the wrong word.
There's a lot of dark stuff happening here, so it's not a light, fluffy book.
But, it is refreshing.
My only significant issue with it is that as he approaches "way-points" in the story, he tends to keep adding additional details.
So, as the tension builds, the movement towards a goal slows.
This book was a 2.5- on the border between being worth the read and not.
The set up was silly and contrived at best.
The story was uninspired, basically the main character wanders around meeting other characters who pretty much immediately volunteer to risk their lives for him.
They then go fight he the big bad.
The audio book contained something like the first chapter of book 2 in the series and it seemed just as dumb.
Unfortunately I spent money on this book because of how much I enjoyed Dickson's Dorsai books but I really wish I would have checked this book out at the library.
Another blast from my past. I remembered laughing as I read it years ago; I laughed again. And yet, there were things to think about: what is honor, what is bravery, what is the right thing to do. I loved these thoughts more than my younger self did. What is clear is it is an excellent fantasy that has held up well.If you like fantasy and haven't read this, go forth, find a copy, and read it now!
