https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/302434.Yoga
Long the standard work in the field, Eliade’s big book on yoga still displays its author’s dazzling erudition, while at the same time suffering from a dated style, poor organization, and like so many other scholarly tomes on the exotic field of “Eastern” spirituality, demonstrates the limits of a purely academic approach divorced from serious practice.
(Downward dog, anyone?) Eliade is clearly most interested in yoga as an exemplary phenomenon of homo religiosus rather than as a practice he or anyone else might seriously take up in their spare time, and this fact has to be borne in mind when venturing into the text.
As David Gordon White eloquently points out in his indispensable introduction, Eliade's early masterpiece was far ahead of the curve; so much so that it is strongest when he sticks to the material he knows first hand.
And so his exposition of Samkhya and Raja Yoga which he knew intimately from the Sanskrit material is truly marvelous and stands hardly rivaled to this day.
Be that as it may, this marvelous book remains a masterpiece decades after it was written.
Eliade's name is synonymous with erudition and this book is one of the cornerstones of his formidable corpus.
"In theory there is no difference between theory and practice. In practice there is."—Yogi Berra
Yoga: Immortality and Freedom (1958) *****All serious yoga scholars have this book or want itI have the Bollingen paperback third printing of the Second Edition of 1969.
George Feuerstein's coffee table sized The Yoga Tradition: Its History, Literature, Philosophy and Practice (1998) is a different sort of book, covering yoga from a more practical point of view, and is accessible to a general public.
The Index itself is 47 pages long and concludes with a by-line(!), "Index by Bart Winer," which is only right considering the text was written and set before the age of computers.This is not a book for practitioners of yoga but a book for students and scholars of the literature of yoga.
когда-нибудь, когда у меня появится время читать подобные книги не в метро, а в более спокойной и располагающей к более вдумчивому чтению обстановке, я напишу об этой книге больше.
Однако уже сейчас могу сказать, что первое впечатление от чтения двойственное.
С одной стороны, Элиаде охватил в своем тексте довольно большой корпус идей и понятий так или иначе имеющих отношение к йоге в Индии.
С другой, текст все же более теоретический, так как уже в самом начале Элиаде пишет, что без непосредственного практического опыта теоретический опыт большинства видов йоги не постигается умом.
Определенная часть текста посвящена истории йоги в разных традициях, что было скучно читать.
A great book, wish I'd read it several years back on my Yoga journey.
This book was written in the 1950's but it fills in so many gaps and explains some puzzling aspects of Yoga practice.
It has helped me get to understanding why Yoga has become so watered down, and continues to be more so, it is entirely understandable once you read this history of how it has evolved.
Inspiring insights, perhaps a bit thick and wordy for anyone who doesn't like academic reading but let's forgive him since he was an academic.
Alejado de cualquier dogma u especulación, el trabajo de Eliade es profundamente filosófico, conteniendo una documentación impresionante que recoge los textos arcaicos que fueron cformando al Yoga, así como los diversos estudios realizados sobre el mismo, mostrando un panorama invaluable, que va desde su origen, sus elementos, peculiaridades y las principales corrientes espirituales que se conformaron en torno al sincretismo y la herencia cultural.
Una de las principales tesis es "el triunfo del Yoga" en el sentido de que innumerables corrientes espirituales lo integraron a sus cosmologías como una parte fundamental debido a la eficacia practica que representa.
Es kann sein, dass diese Ideen verschwinden und andere entstehen, die grob sind.
Und da er nicht denkt und nicht formt , schwinden die Ideen, die er hatte, ohne dass andere gröbere entstehen.
Lass alle komplizierten Praktiken fahren samt der Hoffnung auf die siddhi und akzeptiere das Leere (sunya) als deine wahre Natur”Alle Gegensätze sind illusorisch, das extrem Böse koinzidiert mit dem extrem Guten, der Zustand eines Buddha kann (…) zusammenfallen mit der höchsten Immoralität, und zwar aus dem guten Grund, dass einzig das universelle Leere ist und alles übrige ontologischer Realität ermangelt.
I think the chapter on Buddhism is one of the best descriptions of the original Buddha’s teaching and its relation to yoga I have ever encountered in literature so far.
Alas, starting with the chapter on alchemy I lost the interest in the book—Eliade stresses a lot the mythological part, and I simply don’t share the fascination with mythological elements, those remnants of the mythic structure of consciousness.
So, for me, the strongest parts of the book are Eliade’s treatment of Samkhya, Patanjali and Buddhism—reading it was a profound experience, which I would recommend to anyone; the weakest part was pretty much everything else (for me personally, obviously).
As noted by many, many others: Eliade runs off into some speculations and associations that just don't work. But, as an introduction to the history, general methods, and goals of hatha and tanra yoga (which are not that far apart)it tracks well with other such texts. The utter lack of Eurocentrism or Orientalism is surprising given the book's date, but Eliade made himself a student of yogic practices and history, so it's a practitioners account -- which is a very different thing to the account of colonial observer.
Encore une fois Mircea Eliade est un puits de science. J'ai appris une tonne de choses sur le yoga et sur l'Inde. Une lecture absolument fascinante. Et difficile (notamment à cause des termes en sanscrit, qui en plus ne sont pas transcrits de la même manière que maintenant) et austère et en même temps drôle à certains moments.
I am still reading it. The elaborate description of Sankhya and Yogic philosophies vis a vis human condition is very informative. The book is a little difficult to read given it is a translation from French but the points he made are profound.
An interesting and dense exploration of the development of yoga. It is a good balance to the present-day sort of texts one encounters. (It is, of course, always important to keep in mind where Eliade was coming from)
An interesting introduction for Westerners into the world of Yoga, but even the erudite Eliade misrepresents/misunderstands some of the aspects of this meditative technology, especially the tantric elements.
good
One of the most important existing texts on the subject of yoga.
