https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/685105.Since_Yesterday
SINCE YESTERDAY.
Frederick Lewis Allen.
****1/2.Subtitled, “The 1930s in America,” this volume continues his earlier work, “Only Yesterday.” It tallies the events of that period – going back just a bit – from Hoover to Coolidge to Roosevelt, and the onset of WW II.
Aside from covering the major events of the times, Allen continues to bring up scores of ancillary events that deal with the social side of Americans.
This is another great informal history from Allen, and should be on your reading list.
187This observation lead to a discussion of Huey Long, and reading it, I found it remarkable that no similar populist of the left has risen to challenge President Obama's pro-banker stance.
Indeed, Obama's total non-support of labor (witness his complete abscence from Wisconsin earlier this year, and his failure to support the pro-union legislation early in his term) stands in marked contrast to Roosevelt's steadfast support of labor.Another interesting contrast is the government position on climatological factors.
The similarities between the Great Depression and the Great Recession are strong, but we do not have Roosevelt's strong guiding hand to lead us out of this current economic crisis.
On occasion, I come across a book -- in this case a sequel -- that is so well written, so full of universal truths, so contemporary, that I just have to sit and wonder, "What on Earth will I ever find that can match this?"Since Yesterday is an account of America in the 1930s, written only a year after the end of that decade.
It is remarkable to see how Frederick Lewis Allen is able to make sense of a time that is so recent to him; indeed, a careful reader will find some very subjective assessments that show how all of us are prisoners of our own time.
Still, this is a remarkably balanced and intelligent book.
Great easy-to-read account of the 30s in America. From serious issues like the Dust Bowl disaster and the economic nightmare of the Depression to less important events like the Orson Welles War of the Worlds broadcast, Allen brought the period to life. Not a scholarly presentation, but still well researched.
A follow-up to his original book on the roaring 20s, this book gives the same treatment to the depression.
My father, was a fan of FDR which is easier to understand when you read of the privations faced by the public during the Depression.
2. the work of the New Deal was done humanely keeping FDRs promise that "we are determined to make every American citizen the subject of his country's interest and concern, and we will never regard any faithful law-abiding group within our borders as superfluous." 3.
"Despite all the miseries of the Depression and the recurrent fears of new economic decline and of war, the bulk of the American people had not yet quite lost their basic asset of hopefulness."I enjoyed this book.
“Sometimes the historian wishes that he were able to write several stories at once, presenting them perhaps in parallel columns, and that the human brain were so constructed that it could follow all these stories simultaneously without vertigo, thus gaining an livelier sense of the way in which numerous streams of events run side by side down the channel of time.” (p. 301) This book is not a textbook, it’s a longform essay of the likes you would read in The New Yorker (or, more appropriately, H
It doesn’t attempt to touch on every single thing that happened, but rather paint a picture and draw connections between the different events, fads, and ideologies that seemed most prominent in the popular imagination of America from Sept.
Allen also never manages, except for a few moments in the last chapter, to effectively present the context regarding how the different events he discusses coexist with each other (he often focuses on specific ideas--the New Deal, the Dust Bowl, political scandals--one at a time, resulting in some occasionally confusing time-jumping).
Since Yesterday: The 1930s in America, September 3, 1929- September 3, 1939WOW!
I didn't expect to get so much information out of one book.
I have to say, my dog thanks the author for two whole beautiful days of me listening to this book, (and playing ball with him the whole time,) and I couldn't stop so I read into the night.
This book gave me a lot to think about.
For those of you who don't really know too much about FDR read this book!
Be prepared, it's a long read, but if you like this sort of thing, you won't be disappointed.
This is a popular history of the 1930s in America which I first read over fifty years ago. I thought it would be fun to reread it, but I find that most of the key details were already burned in my memory, mostly because of the other books on the subject I have read. Frederick Lewis Allen is an engaging writer and has a good grasp of the details, but Since Yesterday is mostly a well-crafted introduction to the subject, without any of the scholarly trimmings.
Having read Only Yesterday many years ago, I expected to appreciate the style and substance of Frederick Lewis Allen once again. He did not disappoint me in terms of his ability to balance the cultural, political, social, and economic happenings of the Thirties. His fluid narrative enhances the text book background of the times.
A continuation of the author's Only Yesterday which covers the events of the 1920s in the United States. This book covers the period from September 3, 1929 to September 3, 1939. Originally published in 1940, this book provides an insight into Frederick Lewis Allen's view of the decade.
Concise History of the 1930'sNice history of the 1930's. I especially like how the author included many aspects of everyday life. Felt like I was talking to my mother, with more facts.
As the Allen's 'Only Yesterday' it's a really vivid snapshot of the US history just before the outbreak of WW2. It does miss quite a few social trends and injustices, but it's a real page-turner and worth a quick read.
Well written account of the 30s. Concise and easy to read. Enjoyed reading as this book pulled together a lot of facts into a comprehensive intelligent easy to follow read.
A nice contemporary view of the decade, an account well-organized and told. Led me to read his other account, "Only Yesterday"
Outstanding book about American history in the 30's . Great detail with expansive overviews too.
Good mix of history, economics and social insight into the Depression, Hoover, the New Deal, Roosevelt. some deja vu to the current situation in the United States
A great historical review of the Great Depression Era. Definitely on the same level as its predecessor, Only Yesterday. A perfect resource to capture the feel of the times.
I want to read this book as a means of restarting some reverie over the years as I tried to remember them.
This was an informative book, though it focused more on politics than I cared for.
The last chapter, naturally, shifts to the looming cloud of WWII and how Americans, whom had not given much notice to Europe during the rise of fascism and Naziism, began paying attention to the aggressive expansionism happening in Europe and Asia as worries of another major war began to manifest.The writing style is easy to digest and has a number of interesting tidbits about the era of which I was previously unaware.
A book that well-chronicles the events and issues of America in the 1930's.
A couple of omissions however:The sense of hopefulness was featured throughout as the New Deal tried to bring the country out of the Depression.
No mention of it.
The book ends with Germany invading Poland on September 1, 1939 and the declaration of war by England two days later.
On September 1, the lights went out in the Poland Pavilion, symbolizing the beginning of World War II.
I thought that would be mentioned.
A good segment on Orson Wells' broadcast of War of the Worlds.
Everything you may want to know about the 1930s.
Since Yesterday picks up where Only Yesterday (about the 1920s) left off.
The Great Depression makes this decade depressing.Herbert Hoover worked unceasingly to get America back on track, but the depression was beyond his control.
FDR's administration ridiculed him, but then acted the same way.Among the tidbits: a boom in miniature golf; increased library circulation as people tried to understand the times; with servants dismissed, wives who had never done their own work were now cooking and scrubbing; people stayed in school because there was no job waiting for them; women's styles went back to longer hems and less severe hair; the five-day work week,; the Dust Bowl caused by long-time human error, followed by floods in the east; expanding air conditioning; and Orson Welles and the War of the Worlds.
The parallels between the Great Depression and today's financial crisis have already been well-documented by Paul Krugman and other "demand-side" economists, but "Since Yesterday" is a contemporary account, told from the perspective of only a few years into the 1940s.
All the same characters are here: the supply-siders who want to cut taxes on corporations and so-called job-creators; the same blame-the-victim mentality that makes the implausible claim that the borrowers, not the banksters, cause the financial collapse; the same calls for slashing government spending at a time when the country needs government spending the most; banks and "investors" that receive generous infusions of cash and then sit on it instead of letting it circulate; and on, and on.
Change a few dates and names, and it reads like any news story from the last 5 years.

This was a great book, like its predecessor, it was written shortly after the decade it was based on, the 1930s.
I felt like it was better written and easier to read since Only Yesterday: An Informal History of the 1920's.
Perhaps that is because Allen had ten more years of writing, or I much preferred reading about the 1930s and the Depression over the 1920s.
If I wasn't in a class, I probably would have never heard of it, but it would be something I definitely would read on my own if I ever had discovered it.
Allen's book--Only Yesterday--that chronicles the social, political and economic history of the 1920s is still regarded as one of the most encompassing accounts of the decade. Since Yesterday is Allen's attempt to tackle the 1930s in a similar style. While the book is rather surface level and does not delve too deep into any one subject, Allen paints a remarkably complete picture of the US in this complicated and tumultuous time in its history, and manages to do so in a style that held my attention from start to finish.
A very good description of the 1930's.I am very interested in American history. This period is described in detail of all facets of life as it was happening. I learned much. My parents were married in 1937 and I gained a greater understanding of what life must have been like for them. The history ends in Oct of 1939 with the invasion of Poland by Germany. My life began that month and my dad took a picture of me in my crib with the newspaper headline of the invasion
I read this book to better debate policy points with my father. Not being predisposed to popular fiction the first one hundred-twenty pages were a tough slog. Once I got over the portrayed common wisdom of that decade the text became fluid if not enjoyable. The writing is excellent, the topic dismal.
I really enjoyed this. It ranks up there with Richard Goodwin's "Remembering America" as a look at a specific time period, with vignettes that intermingle popular culture with the historical events of the time. It's one thing to read history in a textbook, but quite another to read it from the point of view of the people living during that time period.
Very interesting book. I didn't know much about this period in our history. The author paints a picture of the decade that you can truly see by referencing books and movies both from and about the decade. I heartily recommend this book to history buffs or anyone who wonders what happened after "the crash of 1929".
