https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/23447923-the-inexplicable-logic-of-my-life
I have such a hard time reviewing Benjamin Alire Sáenz's books because they really are beautiful stories it's just something about them doesn't click with me.
I did prefer this story to Aristotle and Dante but I did still have a lot of the same issues.
Furthermore, the relationships between these characters are downright amazing.
Once again like Aristotle and Dante, this book deals with big picture, existential crisis ideas.
I both like and dislike the fact that this is the sole focus for his books.A huge issue I had with this one that I didn't have with Aristotle and Dante was that this book is pretty big.
No men hiding their feelings because showing them might be unmaly, no shying away from friendships with none-straight people because they might fall in love with you.-Maggie the Dog.No. 2:-464 pages without much of a plot-The main character resembles Ari from Aristotle and Dante Discover the Secrets of the Universe and Zach from Last Night I Sang to the Monster.
It was so completely out of character, and while some may say that this is just how hurt and fear express themselves, I don't think it works that way for this books main character.I'm having a hard time rating this book.
Unsurprisingly, I thought this was great.I say unsurprisingly because I absolutely loved this author’s ARISTOTLE AND DANTE DISCOVER THE SECRETS OF THE UNIVERSE novel, so it’s not as if I expected to hate this.In a way, this new book resembles the one mentioned above.
And this book doesn’t have a plot either, seeing that it centers mainly on the relationships between characters rather than the course of events.It follows the lives of Salvador, his gay father, his best friend Sam and his new friend Fito.
They make the characters question a lot of things.Especially Sally (Salvador).
The minute I received an email from NetGalley promoting Benjamin Alire Sáenz's new book, I jumped on it and submitted a request for an advance copy. I absolutely loved  Aristotle and Dante Discover the Secrets of the Universe  (see my review), so I figured even if this one wasn't that good, I still had to read it. Needless to say, I was so pleased to get approved right away, and I began the book the second I finished my previous one. The Inexplicable Logic of My Life  is a different book than  A
That things were changing, and I could feel it but couldn't put it into words."Sadly, life throws them curve after curve in this crucial year, and Sal must deal with some major emotional crises, and come to terms with who he is, and what becoming a man really means.
But ultimately, this is one of those books that teaches you to let yourself be loved, and that no matter what your background or life situation is, you still are entitled to dream and believe in yourself.I'll sit and wait for Sáenz's next book, readying for this again:
A lot of the things that happened in the book felt slightly dramatic, (view spoiler)[ Sam's mom dying  (hide spoiler)], but it does happen over the course of the school year so it wasn't unrealistic, it just felt weird reading about it close together because the sense of time feels different.
At times though the book felt a little long and it was too sentimental for me, I don't know reading people marveling at life tends to make me into one of those people who's like gross please put your emotions away.
Dad always said that there was nothing wrong with crying and that if people did more of it, well then, the world would be a better place."But, see, it's not where I come from that matters -- it's where I'm going."Before I nodded off, I thought about what my dad had said -- that life wasn't all nice and neat like a book, and life didn't have a plot filled with characters who said intelligent and beautiful things.
“Déjate querer.” Let yourself be loved.
How I feel posting a negative review of this book right now: For me, this was highly problematic.
I'm pretty disappointed, because I had super high expectations, and everyone seems to be loving this.
Therefore, I don't really want to do my typical detailed breakdown of all my issues.
Here, have a list instead:- The writing.
The writing was.
A lot like this.
Yes, the writing was repetitive.
In repetition.
In repetition.
Like this.
- The handling of sexual assault- The subversive misogyny- At times flippantly offensive- Seriously, the writing was almost a non-starterBlog | Facebook | Twitter | Instagram | Pinterest
Everything and nothing happened in this book and in typical Benjamin Alire Saenz fashion, I was left in awe.
Being told friends and family are somehow lower than our romantic partners is such a damaging idea to be putting in young readers heads and it is everywhere, so thank you, Benjamin Alire Saenz, for highlighting the value in friendship and family.
I’m not the type of person to enjoy plotless books, but for some reason when Benjamin Alire Saenz does it they are always fucking perfect and not boring at all, and I don’t get it, but I’m not about to question it.
Check out my spoiler free review!: https://youtu.be/UqWLbuaaDu0
I, unlike the majority of my friends, haven't read Aristotle and Dante Discover the Secrets of the Universe.
While I gather that Aristotle and Dante Discover the Secrets of the Universe had a romance element, this book really doesn't.
It is all about platonic relationships and how those tight bonds of family and friends affect the main characters.
Another thing you should know about the book is that it's long, like almost 500 pages long.
This book is also pretty shockingly sad, with lots of tragedies in the story.
The relationship between each of the characters and the love that they had for one another really carried the story.
3.5 starsI feel heartbroken that I did not like this one more. Anyone who knows me knows that I love  Aristotle and Dante Discover the Secrets of the Universe  with every fiber of my being. In some ways, Benjamin Alire Saenz captures a similar magic in The Inexplicable Logic of My Life. The story follows Sal, a white boy raised by a gay Mexican-American man, and Sam, Sal's best friend. Saenz, as always, hits on heavy topics - Sam and Sal experience love, death, grief, and a host of other emotion
The concise chapters of The Inexplicable Logic of My Life make it a fast and smooth artistic experience, one that you could clear in an afternoon or a day.Prose aside, Saenz accomplishes so many wonderful things with this book.
I loved the emotional disclosure in this book the most; I really appreciate how Saenz crafts characters of all backgrounds who feel comfortable talking about their feelings.My overarching criticism: too much happens in The Inexplicable Logic of My Life.
While each of these story lines had meaning, they felt overwhelming and compressed when all packed together.Overall, I enjoyed this book, but I did not like it nearly as much as Aristotle and Dante Discover the Secrets of the Universe.

Pero no se puede y así es la vida, como los libros de Ben. Crudos, poéticos, que calan hondo y que representan las partes más brillantes y oscuras de todo al mismo tiempo.
Si bien el libro no tiene una gran trama súper elaborada, sí que se centra muchísimo en los personajes y en un desenlace inminente, en un hecho que saben que no pueden evitar y que cambiará la vida de todos: la muerte de alguien querido.
A medida que avanza el libro no puedes evitar querer a los personajes.

While that novel had its cliches and manic dream pixie characters it had a magic to it.
The most focused upon relationship in this book was between Salvador and his dad Vincente.
There are special snowflake main characters in YA novels and manic dream pixie side ones...
Salvador's dad Vincente was a manic-dream-pixie-special-snowflake parent...
I just needed a little something to take the always perfect shine off their relationship.
But for anyone reading this book I mean those are #ParentGoals right there because Vincente is so freaking flawless!!!This is a hard one to rate.
When it hits its stride, 50 pages feel like 5; you won't notice time passing.My favorite things about the book: the diversity (almost all the characters are PoC, and some are queer) and the focus on deeply loving friendships.
Early in the book, Sam has a habit of dating "bad boys." One of them, Eddie, tries to rape her.
Then, later in the book, Sal gets angry when he sees Eddie and Sam talking at school.
After that, throughout the rest of the book, no one ever calls Eddie a rapist or calls what happened "attempted rape" or "sexual assault." We just kept getting oblique references to how Eddie "hurt her." He didn't hurt her.
E estou com um sorriso enorme no rosto depois de ter todas as minhas expectativas correspondidas.
Diferente de Ari e Dante, esse livro não é tão focado no romance.
Mas, acima de qualquer coisa, The Inexplicable Logic of My Life é um livro sobre amor.A narrativa do Benjamin é muito pura e bonita.
Essa história tem personagens tão reais e profundos que é impossível escolher um favorito.
Foi um TAPÃO na minha cara, mas um tapa que eu estava precisando levar.Mais uma vez BAS acertou em cheio.
Mais um livrão pra minha lista de favoritos-para-toda-a-vida.“Don't ever underestimate the people who love you.”
This book had a lot of great things about it. Really strong diverse characters that I tucked into my heart. Stunningly beautiful prose that surprised me out of nowhere. Moments that made me feel such deep sadness, beauty and hope; often at the same time. A really solid novel that I think a lot of people will enjoy when it releases next March.
It felt like a million firecrackers going off in my chest—bright and burning; it kind of hurts but it’s also kind of beautiful.Salvador, Samantha, and Fito were all very intricate characters with many personal struggles and it evoked so much emotion from me to read about these friends who had each other’s backs through it all.
and not once did he ever make it seem to the reader like he was saying it because he wanted to be more than friends.
When they embraced Fito into their group, it made me really happy because God knows he needed a shoulder or two to lean on.
Especially if they're:a) ARCsb) Written by someone who can come up with something as beautiful as Aristotle and Dante Discover the Secrets of the Universe (please go read that if you haven't already)But I just can't continue with this book, even though it falls under both these categories.
How Benjamin Alire Sáenz managed to write a book so boring I fell asleep in the third chapter, I don't know.
I don't care about Sam's preferences for shoes??• I don't care if your grandmum would've gotten along with Sam• I definitely don't want an entire chapter of why Sam would've gotten along with your grandparentsGOODBYE DISAPPOINTING BOOK.
I wish Benjamin Alire Sáenz could write my life.
I cannot describe this book with anything but one word: disappointment.
it wasn't that the writing was necessarily bad, it had a few good moments.
things like "for a gay guy, my dad was pretty straight", "one thing about sam was that she didn't throw like a girl", "and fito's such a schizophrenic dork", "and Sam was supposed to be a real mexican" and many other things I had to suppress are said throughout the whole of this book.
and most importantly, it's hurtful to many people.
I know this got many people excited, myself included, but it's almost garbage.
"I just wanted to know that I really belonged. Which is stupid. Because I've always belonged." A well done YA story which does lack romance but does gift the love of family.
Full review originally posted on my blog:   Word Wonders  *I received an Arc of this book from the publishers through Netgalley in exchange of an honest review*Trigger Warning: Sexual Assault – Successive Deaths.Oh boy I’m mad. When I first started reading the book it felt like I was finding a new favorite, I knew that I was going to be giving it a 5 star rating, but as you can see that didn’t happen. The Inexplicable Logic of my life took all the wrong turns when they could’ve been avoided, it
I lost count of how many times I cringed because the author used sentences like “For a gay guy, my dad was pretty straight”, “That’s so gay”, and “You ARE gay” referring to a gay character that chose a cute dress for his friend.Oh and we can’t forget about how it would probably even hurt Mexican-Americans who are already trying to figure out their identities with phrases like “All three of us wouldn’t make one whole Mexican” and “You’re not a real Mexican”.
These sentences can easily be deleted and it wouldn’t change anything to the core of the story.I’ve read around that the book has no plot which in a sense is true, but it’s a character driven story, focusing on the growth of the main character and his close entourage, so I didn’t mind that, I actually liked it.
So beautiful.(Literally these were the only words that were coming to mind after finishing the novel!)--What I LikedThe characters.
The Inexplicable Logic of My Life is a very character driven story.
I loved Sal's relationship with his father, Vicente.
I loved Sal's sibling-esque relationship with Samantha.
I loved Sal's relationship with Mima.
At times, it felt a little overwhelming, but in the long run it really made this book and these stories feel more realistic.Vicente.
For a contemporary novel, The Inexplicable Logic Of My Life is quite long and at times it felt as though the story was dragging a little.
I was recently contacted over my review of this book, and I'd like you all to know what happened.
He also mentioned how I had read the book wrong.
(So, FYI I was 16 when I wrote and posted the review.)I had even contacted HMH about this book, but was dismissed.
Him contacting me was not all right, and it should never happen to reviewers.So. Check out my original review here if you want to see what Saenz was so upset about.I would like to thank the people at Clarion/HMH Publishing for allowing me to have an ARC of this book.
Read this and more reviews on MY BLOGAfter 12 long days of trying to get into this book I am finally DNF'ing it on page 228.
But The inexplicable Logic reminded me all of the reasons why I hate ya contemporaries.​Aristotle and Dante was aesthetically written, and it was the most quotable book I've ever read - it was just beautiful.
It was supposed to be a coming of age story - main character navigating through grief, loss and other confusing things (like his father being gay).
This book is over 400 pages long, and I just don't see a reason why.
* 4,7 estrelas *Estou muito feliz por ter escolhido The Inexplicable Logic of My Life para ser a minha leitura de 2018.No ano passado li Aristotle and Dante Discover the Secrets of the Universe e assim que comecei a ler as primeiras páginas o autor já ganhou um cantinho especial na minha estante (e no coração), então estava muito empolgada com essa leitura.Esse é um livro sobre o amor e suas diferentes formas.
Principalmente sobre o amor e...eu amei isso (desculpa se soei meio piegas com essa observação hehe).A única coisa que me fez não dar 5 estrelas foi que achei que algumas das tragédias que acontecem ao longo da história foram desnecessárias.
I'm one of like, the fifteen people in the universe who was really disappointed by Aristotle and Dante lmao. Still, I'm curious to see what else the author can do.
