https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/84052.Morning_Noon_Night
2018 Subjects Specific Reading ChallengeI have 30 books with specific subjects that I need to read Book 2: A crime novelA quick readFirst Sentence: Dmitry asked, 'Do you know we're being followed, Mr Stanford?'Sidney Sheldon is one of those easy reading writers. You pick-up the book and before you know, you've read have of it.Gripping, full of plot twists and interesting characters you can't help but like what's in your hand.I should definitely make a priority to read the other Sheldon books on my shelf.
The downside of having read too much Sidney Sheldon is that you already know what to expect – surprising plot twists.
That is why while reading this book I was already making bets with myself as to who the real culprit was.
The thing is, Sheldon spoiled the fun for me as he already revealed the perpetrator early on in the story.
Because a few pages before it ends, something turns the story around.
(Why aren’t you surprised?) And just as one day consists of a morning, a noon, and a night, one day is all you need to finish reading the book.
Or less.A fun read.
This was the first Sidney Sheldon book I have read. After reading this, I'm inlove with Sidney Sheldon. VERY INLOVE.OSM characters. OSM AUTHOR. OSM story. OSM conflict. OSM. VERY OSM.
And my 7th book for the Booktube-a-thon is done!!Amazing read, just like you would expect from Sidney Sheldon.
Harry Stanford - Cruel, self-made millionaire is falling off from his yacht into raging sea. Before his murder mystery gets solved, his children are gathering to share their father's wealth. Story starts when his illegitimate child Julia Stanford joins the race. Mystery unveils slowly & steadily. The final twist about the supposed "wealth" proves why Sidney Sheldon is the best storyteller of the century.
Nice plot twisting all over. Characters I couldn't invest in one bit.
I have read lots of sidney sheldon novels...are you afraid of the dark,bloodline,if tomorrow comes,tell me your dreams.....all of them being fantastic novels i expected a bit more from this one...it ended just as the steam had started gathering up....no suspense..a bit predictable...not one of sheldon's best for me...
1.5What a lot of nasty unpleasant characters. A few of them develop some slightly redeeming characteristics in the course of the book, but the only really nice person from first to last is Julia and she just does not deserve to be thrown in among these others. The first Sidney Sheldon I have read and probably also the last.Popsugar challenge 2018: A book with a time of day in the title
Morning, Noon and Night by Sidney Sheldon is an easy, quick-read and enjoyable novel filled with intrigue and subterfuge.
Having read several novels by Sidney Sheldon, I was looking for and anticipating interesting twists which I have come to expect from this author.
I guess that is what makes Sidney Sheldon such a wonderful storyteller.The main characters, Tyler, Kendal, Woody and Julia, were all strong, real, believable characters and all were consistent in their own character throughout the entire novel.
My disappointment in the novel, rests with the conversations.
One of the best books I've ever read. It was amazing. I would recommend this to anyone one out there.
Εξαιρετική η γραφη του Σέλντον μεταδίδει τέλεια στον αναγνωστη πολλά συναισθηματα και ξεχυλίζει απο αγωνία και μυστήριο!!Χαίρομαι αφανταστα που εχω κ αλλα δικα του βιβλία στα αδιάβαστα!!
داستانی از سیدنی شلدون به ترجمه : کاوه رحیمیان داستان درباره مردی میلیاردر به اسم هری استانفورد که ش
Oke, ini perkenalan pertama sama Sidney Sheldon. Suka, jadi kepingin baca yang lain. Saya selalu nyari novel lokal yang bertema romance-keluarga-drama tapi dengan tambahan konflik pembunuhan atau misteri apa gitu, jadi kan bisa seru. Mungkin semacam Maria A. Sardjono, V. Lestari, gitu, ya? eh, Mira W. atau Marga T. juga suka, sih.
Excellent, as almost all Sidney Sheldon books, only the plot is a bit overdone. Harry Stanford is meaner than mean and Tyler is more corrupt than a judge could possibly be.

A wonderful lady goes to a family gathering following the secretive demise of Harry Stanford, guaranteeing to be his departed tyke and expressing her rights to an offer of the investor's bequest, in an entrancing, crazy ride novel."Marry him. Good dull husbands are hard to find.” ― Morning, Noon & Night
This was my first time reading Sidney Sheldon and I actually enjoyed this book much more than I thought I would.While I wasn't mindblown or anything by the plot, it did keep me turning pages to know what happened next.Slightly predictable at points but even so, a pretty enjoyable book. Looking forward to reading more books by this author.
a big NO!
Another excellent Sheldon page turner, one of the world's wealthiest men dies leaving behind a billion dollar estate. Following the funeral a woman turns up claiming to be the illegitimate child and entitled to a portion of the estate. Typical of a Sheldon novel there is layers of detail and numerous twists.
This thrilling book of intrigues,fraud,betrayal, and suspicion fittingly ends in exposures,arrests murderous attempts,and murders.All kinds of tricks have been employed to hoodwink the suspected which include husband, wife,brother, sister, and father.It is a no-holds-barred thriller of felony made vivid by twists and turns many times more than a plot needs.
But all of those spring from certain idiosyncrasies and hideous intentions of the lead characters.For example, Harry's larger-than-life personality is without compassion; sadistic and vindictive, he believed in indulgences of food and other things and had an enormous ego which he often bent to prove.
اگر شما هم کتابهایی مثل اگر فردا بیاید یا خشم فرشتگان رو از سیدنی شلدون خوندین و محو داستانش شدین، توصیه میکنم هرگز سراغ این کتاب نیاین تا به کلی از سیدنی شلدون ناامید نشید!شروع، ادامه، پرداخت و پایان کتاب واقعا ضعیف بود. شخصیتپردازیها حتی تا پایان داستان خوب جا نمیافته. اگرچه شوکهایی تو داستان وجود داره اما به حدی کل داستان سرهمبندی شده هست که شما رو در خودش غرق نمیکنه تا احساس غافلگیری داشته باشید.شخصیت هری استنفورد که کل داستان بر محور اون میچرخه حتی با پایان کتاب در هالهای از ابهام باقی میمو
اگر شما هم کتاب‌هایی مثل اگر فردا بیاید یا خشم فرشتگان رو از سیدنی شلدون خوندین و محو داستانش شدین، توصیه می‌کنم هرگز سراغ این کتاب نیاین تا به کلی از سیدنی شلدون ناامید نشید!شروع، ادامه، پرداخت و پایان کتاب واقعا ضعیف بود.
اگرچه شوک‌هایی تو داستان وجود داره اما به حدی کل داستان سرهم‌بندی شده هست که شما رو در خودش غرق نمی‌کنه تا احساس غافلگیری داشته باشید.شخصیت هری استنفورد که کل داستان بر محور اون می‌چرخه حتی با پایان کتاب در هاله‌ای از ابهام باقی می‌مونه!خلاصه اینکه، کتاب صبح، ظهر و شب رو حتی برای یک بار هم نخونیدش!
Once again, everything you could hope for in a Sidney Sheldon novel: bland title, power-hungry and deceitful characters, and many twists and turns along the way. I had fun guessing what would happen, and even though I got most of them right, I also guessed a few of them incorrectly (the fun part about his books is that anything can happen, so it's all fair game). Done in 2 days
a story of four siblings where fame,ambition,money and deception lies ahead of them as their longing for their father's approval...as well as the wealth with gives much terrifying,explosive revelations from the beginning to the end....  Morning,noon & night... a book you could'nt help to drop off at your hands until you finish.
The book was good. A very typical Sidney Sheldon book. Hence, there is lots of twists and turns. But since there was so many big twists in the middle, that the final twist was expected and it rather looked like a smaller twist than the first one. When everything fell into piece, one can certainly predict what the final twist is going to be. I certainly did. But all in all, it was a good read...
A typical property based novel and yet Sheldon writes it so beautifully to make it immensely captivating. To me its the first Sheldon novel that doesn't feature a strong woman character and sensuous scenes. But it does feature typical Sheldon twists and turns that makes it enjoyable.
I have read several of Sidney Sheldon books and have read this one twice. Plenty of twists and turns and although the killer is revealed, it still keeps you in suspense as to how the story is going to unfold.
Longe de ser extraordinário, não deixa de ser uma leitura leve e agradável.A fórmula é um pouco repetida, especialmente quando já se leu alguns livros deste autor, mas de evz em quando sabe bem, que mais não seja para ler algo mais leve e para alternar leituras mais complexas.
This was my first Sidney Sheldon and definitely not my last. This was a non-stop action book. There were lots of twists and turns... some I saw coming but the majority of them I did not see coming. I like stories with dysfunctional families, and this family sure was dysfunctional!
Sidney Sheldon, a man who keeps you wondering what is going to be next in this story. it's utterly irresistible to let go of this book and go to your worklife. At the same time, you love to read epic mystery that has been carved beautifully in this novel.Must read I would say!
Cú twist không có gì làm quá bất ngờ nhưng thực sự câu chuyện cũng đem lại cho mình những bài học về cách đối nhân xử thế. Mình thích cách viết của Sidney Sheldon.
