https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2049.The_High_Window
Oh, clever Odysseus, who fooled the Cyclopes, who heard the song of the Sirens and lived to tell the tale, Raymond Chandler gave you a rebirth as a private eye.For anybody unfamiliar with Chandler, here is a snatch of dialogue taking place in Marlowe's office when a member of a very rich family comes to speak with the detective:He looked me over without haste and without much pleasure.
This contrast between the crime and social grime of 1940s Los Angeles and the presence of Philip Marlow gives Chandler's work real abiding depth.There are hundreds of authors, some very good, who have written detective fiction or crime fiction but what sets Raymond Chandler apart is the polished literary language matching any American author, including the likes of F.
In Pasadena, a small, quiet, wealthy city outside L.A. lives in one of those mansions that some people envy, other hate a certain Mrs. Elizabeth Bright Murdock, twice widowed...one under very strange circumstances...he fell out of a high window, thus the title.
Also there is a small quiet room, a hidden cubicle, little known about , of its existence in the rather now quaint, some unkind ignorant people will say ...what ...An edifice , an oasis, Merle Davis, where Mrs. Murdoch's fragile, pleasant secretary works..
For an obviously bright guy, Marlowe is in a racket that pays little...peanuts...
In this worthy companion to The Big Sleep and Farewell My Lovely. Marlowe tracks a rare colonial coin called "The Brasher Doubloon," finds a corpse, clears an innocent suspect, and--ever the knight in tarnished armor--rescues a damsel in distress. This novel features a handful of well-drawn stock characters: an iron dowager and her entourage (consisting of an effete son and a mousy secretary), a B-movie actor turned big-time gambler who is protected by a six-foot-five henchman (both with scars), round-heeled ex-showgirl Lois Magic, gin-joint contralto Linda Conquest--and a good no-nonsense middle-aged cop named Breeze. And--of course--those great overheated Chandler metaphors!
On the wide cool front porches, reaching their cracked shoes into the sun, and staring at nothing, sit the old men with faces like lost battles.[...]Out of the apartment houses come women who should be young but have faces like stale beer; men with pulled-down hats and quick eyes that look the street over behind cupped hand that shields the match flame; worn intellectuals with cigarette coughs and no money in the bank; fly cops with granite faces and unwavering eyes; cokies and coke peddlers; people who look like nothing in particular and know it, and once in a while even men that actually go to work.
The High Window is another excellent novel featuring Raymond Chandler's hard-boiled L.A. detective, Philip Marlowe, although to my mind it's not quite on a par with Chandler's masterpieces, The Big Sleep and The Long Goodbye.The case opens when a wealthy, twice-widowed Pasadena woman named Elizabeth Bright Murdock hires Marlowe to discreetly recover a valuable coin that has been stolen from her first's husband's collection.
The client insists that her daughter-in-law, whom she hates, has taken the coin although she has no proof.
Mrs. Murdock wants Marlowe to quietly find the woman and get the coin back.
As usual Marlowe soon finds himself wrapped up in a mess including several murders as he is forced to preserve the confidentiality of a client he doesn’t like against cops pressing him for answers.This was a Chandler I hadn’t read before, and I had a surprisingly hard time getting into it for some reason.
From 10 feet she looked something made up to be seen from 30 feet away.’ got me into the groove, and while I wouldn’t call it the best Marlowe I’ve read, I ended up enjoying it quite a bit.The thing that nudge it from a solid 3 stars to 4 was the ending.
Philip Marlowe is hired to find the Brasher doubloon, a valuable gold coin stolen from its owner.
Will Marlowe be able to find who stole the doubloon without winding up on the pile of corpses left in its wake?As I continuously mention, noir fiction of this type agrees with me like a bottle of Mad Dog does a homeless man.
The High Window, Raymond Chandler's third Philip Marlowe book, is no exception.A wise man once said "No one reads Raymond Chandler for the plot." I agree with whomever that wizzened old sage was.
That's how I felt about the plot sometimes.It's no surprise by now that Chandler's prose is the star of the show.
This seems to be a simple case and Marlowe was able to find the location of both lost coin and escaped person fairly soon, but he found himself being shadowed by an unknown person practically from the beginning, and then he started stumbling upon dead bodies.
The plot, while being anything but straightforward makes the most complicated labyrinth look like a simple walk in a park.This book and the previous ones made Philip Marlowe a sample after which all private investigators of noir literature were made by the writers who came after Raymond Chandler.
Just like a detective in a book.’I really like Philip Marlowe, I've decided.
But I'm not sure if that's my imagination or faded memories.So far in this series, Philip Marlowe has almost been an entity outside of Chandlers writing, and had an entertainment value almost divorced of the book.
Oh yeah, Philip Marlowe hard boiled- noir- gumshoe- classic- wise-crackin- smart talking etc etc.
In this story I felt like I realised Marlowe is a real person and I was a little embarrassed to have been caught smirking at the idea of him.He's an honest guy essentially.
For those of you who haven’t yet read Chandler – and I won’t question why – I’m here to tell you, the man can write.
Every building’s a Belfont Building, or as vivid; every elevator operator a Civil War veteran, or as colourful; every character – from the “long-limbed languorous” showgirl (“From thirty feet away she looked like a lot of class.
When he talks tender to the femmes fatales I defy you (women especially – Chandler, against the odds, and despite low-grade ingrained chauvinism indicative of his times, is a ladies’ man) not to feel a shiver.
One thing I can’t stand about Goodreads reviews is the compulsion that so many reviewers have of giving a detailed summary of the plot.
Is there any wonder why Marlowe’s only friend is booze?Although I love Raymond Chandler, and enjoyed this book - parts of it really dragged.
Exhibit A: “You always have a gun lying around on your desk?”“Except when it’s under my pillow,” I said.
What do you do when you get tough - knock me down and kick me in the face?” “Aw hell,” he said and grinned.
Exhibit B:  From thirty feet away she looked like a lot of class.
Granted, there are rumors that Chandler was less than thrilled by the final product but seriously, wouldn't you really prefer the worst of Raymond Chandler over the best of Baldacci?4.5 starsFYI: On a 5-point scale I assign stars based on my assessment of what the book needs in the way of improvements:*5 Stars – Nothing at all.
Some serious rewriting would be needed in order for this book to be considered great or memorable.*2 Stars – This book needs a lot of work.
*1 Star - The only thing that would improve this book is a good bonfire.

Unfortunately for Marlowe, there’s rarely ever an open and shut case and it isn’t long before he’s tied up in a web of deceit and murder.I’m beginning to feel like there’s no such thing as a bad Marlowe story.
It’s one thing to write these characters but it’s another thing to call attention to it; almost like breaking the fourth wall so to speak.As many have pointed out, it’s not really because of the plot that you’re picking up a Chandler novel and I’m beginning to see why.
Another hard-boiled detective novel starring the quintessential noir detective, Philip Marlowe.
Our protagonist takes on a seemingly simple case involving a stolen gold doubloon but, this being a Chandler novel, the bodies soon start hitting the floor and Marlowe soon realises there's more to it than just a missing coin.Marlowe seems to dial the misogyny down a notch in this one and becomes quite a sweet father figure to a 'damsel in distress' with some physical and mental health issues.
Right, onto the next one...
My least favourite Marlowe so far, even worse than Farewell, My Lovely As usual with my reviews, please first read the publisher’s blurb/summary of the book.
"Does anybody?"This is by far the best quote of the entire book -After a moment I pushed my chair back and went over to the french windows.
Word Painting: Read one of Chandler's poetic passages describing the Los Angeles street scene ca.
And that begins with Marlowe, who, to paraphrase Chandler, is a tough guy who walks the mean streets but is not himself mean.
First person narrative and dialogue: Chandler created a unique voice and made it believable, and he raised the wise crack to a high art.
And the erudite Marlowe can crack wise about Hemingway—in "Farewell My Lovely"—and Samuel Pepys diary in "The High Window".
The only downsides to reading Chandler are the occasional racial and ethnic slurs, the sexism and homophobia that are typical of the period.
In Chandler’s third installment in the Marlowe series, The High Window, we see our cynical detective given a job by a cranky and boozy widow, Mrs. Murdock, to search for a rare coin that was allegedly swiped by her daughter-in-law.
And when he realizes that this whole search for a precious coin, the Brasher Doubloon, is a case much, much more involved, then things get a little more interesting.
I think that Marlowe is a little bit more restrained at points in this one, as opposed to the other two I’ve read in the series (The Lady in the Lake, The Big Sleep).
At book three in this series it's getting harder to come up with new things to say about Chandler's Marlowe novels.
Aside from Chandler's witty metaphors, very cool prose and his take on the sprawl that is Los Angeles (which I am absolutely fascinated by, probably more than anything else in these books) what I am beginning to appreciate more about these novels is in the way Chandler explores people.
Getting to the whodunit and most especially the why is really a vehicle for exploring individual psyches, especially Marlowe's.
من قبلتر از چندلر فقط بانوی دریاچه رو خونده بودم که کلا جالب بود اما این کتاب راضیم نکرد به چند دلیل: 1) توصیفات کشدار چندلر از مکان ها اذیتم می کرد چون نمی تونستم تصورش کنم - اینکه یه سری اشیاء و حالات و تزئینات رو درکی از شکل و قیافه اش نداشتم مزید بر علت بود؛ 2) دیالوگ هایی که مارلو موقع کل کل کردن ادا می کرد جاهایی عملا شده بود خوشمزگی نویسنده که "ببینید من چه جوری این شخصیتا رو انداختم به جون هم"؛ 3) اشارات فرهنگی و زبانی و تشبیهی ای داشت که من نمی فهمیدمشون؛ ترجمه هم کمکی نمی کرد - گاه گاهی به اصلش هم مراجعه می کردم اما دردی از نفهمیدنم دوا نمی کردخلاصه اینکه تشبیهات و تصویرهای غیرقابل تصور یا غیر قابل فهم از یک سو و نفهمیدن ها از سوی دیگه باعث شد لذت کافی رو نبرم از داستان.
I read this book for the “Noir” square of my 2017 Halloween Bingo card.I didn’t enjoy The High Window quite as much as I loved The Big Sleep or Farewell, My Lovely, but I still really liked it.
I love it when an author expects sophistication on the part of his readers!The plot in this one seemed a bit simpler to me, although there was still a bit of a surprise at the end.
Of the three of Chandler’s books that I’ve read, this one seemed the least noir to me, although it certainly still fits in the genre.
I once almost got in to a fist fight with an acquaintance for suggesting that Dashiell Hammett was a better writer than Raymond Chandler.
His voice and style so absolutely defined through his fiction and screenwriting what we think of as noir - and the detective fiction and cinema that has come since - that it is easy to take him for granted, but the writing is simply superb.
I would go so far as to say it transcends to become literature.But i still think Hammett was better and am ready to roll up my sleeves.
How can I not love a detective novel that includes allusions to Wuthering Heights and the Diary of Pepys?
The reference to Marlowe as a Galahad figure is especially apt in this installment of the Marlowe novels; the ethical code Marlowe follows is explicitly stated and (it seems to me) more central to his internal conflict than in the other novels.
While Chandler's noir focuses on the underbelly of American life, the level of individual corruption (the psychological exploitation of Merle Davis) is far more cruel and devious than plot threads in other novels.
Marlowe's handling of Merle and his odious employer are what make him such a compelling character.
Chandler also misses the mark when it comes to laconic elegance, leaning more to the luridly painted scene.Both have that slow-burn plot that is only saved by the aid of an insider (and coincidentally, the delivery of a small box containing the macguffin).
If there could be any elegance in a thing like that.But that newsletter was right.
In Hammett they're a stutter before a restatement.Both show a recognition of something left unsaid, something sought for but in the end, something not found.
The High Window (Philip Marlowe #3), Raymond Chandlerعنوان: پنجره بالایی؛ نویسنده: ریموند چندلر؛ مترجم: فتح الله جعفری جوزانی؛ تهران، شوکا، 1386، در 286 ص؛ شابک: 9789648005868؛ عنوان دیگر: پنجره ی مرتفع؛ موضوع: داستانهای نویسندگان امریکایی قرن 20 معنوان: پنجره مرتفع؛ نویسنده: ریموند چندلر؛ مترجم: حسن زیادلو؛ تهران، هزارافسان، 1387، در 336 ص؛ شابک: 9789649174693؛ عنوان دیگر: پنجره ی بالایی؛ موضوع: داستانهای نویسندگان امریکایی قرن 20 مداستان درگیری کاراگاه مارلو با ماجرای جعل سکه ی براشر دابلون و جنایت های حول آن
Stupendous. I had never read this one before, so it was fresh. Loved it.
Usually not considered one of the highlights of Chandler's compact oeuvre, about halfway through it struck me how difficult it is to distinguish between "great" Chandler and the "merely good," as this is really terrific stuff.But after finishing it became clear again why this isn't one of Chandler's finest moments: after a rip-roaring first half, it quickly and inexplicably goes very flat in the second.
Chandler himself chalked up to his disappointment with the novel to it having "no likable characters,"* which does become a problem upon the conclusion when (for me, at least), I couldn't muster up much interest who ended up being the good guys and who the bad.
The High Window offers a fairly complex and convoluted plot, and a slew of characters, so it demands full reader attention. Chandlers's superior prose and dialog really shines here, which elevates the novel above most hard-boiled private eye fare. Although I stalled and had to restart midway though the book due to reading too many similar genre novels concurrently, it was well worth the effort. This is a terrific novel. Five stars.
A tall handsome blond in a dress that looked like seawater sifted over with gold dust came out of the ladies room, touching up her lips and turned toward the arch, humming.
When it's time, you gotta answer the bell ....."I got a shoulder holster out of the desk and strapped it on and slipped a Colt .38 automatic into it, put on hat and coat, shut the windows again, put the whiskey away, clicked the lights off and had the office door unlatched when the phone rang.The ringing bell had a sinister sound, for no reason of itself, but because of the ears to which it rang.
Chandler spent a boozy couple of years tearing the stories in the pulps (which he always maintained a healthy disdain for in his correspondence) to pieces and then attempting to put them together again.
This is the lesson of the creative writing workshop-- to let the plot get away from you, to let the story "write itself." Chandler evidently had not read much Poe, and was on record as hating Agatha Christie.
Chandler's novels are cannibalizations (his own word) of short stories he was working on during that long apprenticeship.
All that said, The High Window and the novel that followed it, The Lady in the Lake, are the strongest of the bunch, plot-wise.
