https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6828896-delivering-happiness
And what's more, (this is the key), happiness in life has to come from your job as much as your personal life.Tony lays out a framework for how he personally has used happiness to create a very unique and successful culture at Zappos - and how he personally came to that conclusion in his own life.I heard Tony Hsieh speak several years ago, and from that had one key takeaway: that instead of spending marketing dollars acquiring customers, just have mind-blowing WOWingly good customer service - and your product will spread naturally - as people will tell their friends about their good experiences.
In a time when many people are anything but happy in their workplaces, I found the book to be more of a guide to start a Fraternity, except without any mention of drugs and alcohol.
I’ve read that newer generations are less engaged with their jobs as a lifestyle and place family and friends first, not really mixing the two.
I was always trying to start businesses as a kid, so it was funny to hear about his trial and errors.
No call times, no scripts, but instead hiring and training people to do their jobs professionally.

One of the best books about business, and personal happiness, I've ever read. I found it so inspiring and I can't wait to use what I've learned with OwlCrate. To anyone out there who owns a business, big or small, I highly recommend you read this.
I wonder if his devotion to Zappos was really based on his gut instinct that the company would succeed, or if that is a story he has told himself to cover the fact that he was simply desperate to have it work since all of the other efforts he had funded had failed and he had wasted his riches on partying and 'finding himself'.

For e-commerce, they are customer service and warehousing....customer service shouldn't just be a department, it should be an entire company.Others can copy our images, our shipping, and the overall look of our Website, but they cannot copy our people, our culture, or our service.The WOW experience is extremely vital for today's business as making customers satisfied and surprised at your service quality will result in profitability and sustainable development.Not only did this book discussed about business but it also gave stunning ideas about friendship, networking and personal effort, and even EDM music and raving culture.
He was obviously quite young when he enjoyed his initial success with LinkExchange, and it's hard to tell wether or not there was ever any sound basis for the decisions he made.I liked his ideas on 'Ask Anything', and how a business should be obsessed with its customers in order to remain successful over the long term.
And how these radical interventions helped shape the culture and result in the business eventually turning profitable for the first time.It ain't Drucker, but if you enjoy feel-good hippie business books, or have not explored the genre before, it may be an entertaining read.
I only wish we had done it sooner."- Pg. 160 "Our core values should always be the framework from which we make all of our decisions...Make at least one improvement every week that makes Zappos better to reflect our core values.
But if every employee made just one small improvement every week to better reflect our core values, then by the end of this year we will have over 50,000 small changes that collectively will be a very dramatic improvement compared to where we are today.""- Pg. 164 "Think about what it means to improve just 1% per day and build upon that every single day.
The most interesting revelations about Zappos' founding and development was how close Zappos (and Hsieh himself) both were to bankruptcy during the company's early years.I think the big take-away lesson for me was hearing how Hsieh allowed Zappos to develop not just a customer-oriented culture, but a staff-focused culture where employees are excited to come to work because they get to spend time with each other.
It was refreshing, for me, to hear about a company succeeding without trying to wall off the personal and professional lives of its employees.
This isn't a groundbreaking book and the existential stuff at the end is a bit overkill for a book like this, but I appreciate the intent and I think all in all this is a great story of a entrepreneurial hustler that had some good team building habits.Thought experiments I want to do occasionally:When he gets offered $20 million dollars for Link Exchange and sits down to write down what he'd do with the money.
It was a great comeback in the second and third sections of the book which delivered not only happiness but also many other ingredients such as motivation, passion , inspiration, core values and so forth at its best.
Yes Tony was unstable after he sold his first owned company named “LinkExchange” and he wanted to run his second company for not making money or profit but to go beyond the horizon, deliver the best for everyone including employees, customers , vendors and to the entire world.
I knew going into this that Zappos, as an Amazon property, has been able to maintain their own culture and operate fairly independently from Amazon.
This was a good story of how Tony started this entrepreneurial ways, as early as in his early childhood trying to sell punk buttons to people, to starting a shoe business from scratch.
From interviews, I've always found Tony to be a fun and easy-going guy to listen to speak, and I really appreciated the time to reflect on Zappos core values, and what they mean to me personally, especially since at Goodreads we share some of the same core values.
Mình đọc bản tiếng Việt của cuốn sách này ở Miki, tuy nhiên phải khẳng định “Tỉ Phú Bán Giày” không truyền tải đủ lí do tại sao tác giả Tony Hsieh (CEO Zappos.com) chọn tiêu đề “Delivering Happiness” cho quyển sách.
Giai thich thê nao nhi?
Thực ra, tiêu đề của sách là 1 cách chơi chữ của công ty cua Tony.
Zappos không chỉ “giao hàng” cho bạn, mà họ có một sứ mệnh lớn lao hơn nhiều là “giao” cho bạn cả niềm vui thích trong từng hôp giay.
“Delivering Happiness” của Tony Hsieh không dừng ở khách hà
Mình đọc bản tiếng Việt của cuốn sách này ở Miki, tuy nhiên phải khẳng định “Tỉ Phú Bán Giày” không truyền tải đủ lí do tại sao tác giả Tony Hsieh (CEO Zappos.com) chọn tiêu đề “Delivering Happiness” cho quyển sách.
“Đã” khi đọc và cảm thấy hừng hực về máu kinh doanh của Tony: ngay từ những ngày còn nghịch đất ngoài vườn, cậu bé Tony đã đòi bố mẹ cho tiền để nuôi bán giun lấy lời, tới thành công đầu tiên của cậu học sinh cấp 2 mỗi tháng kiếm được 300 đôla nhờ việc bán nút áo, đến tận ngày lập nên LinkExchange và bán cho Microsoft trong 17 tháng với giá 265 triệu đô.
Tony shares freely those things that he feels are important in creating a successful company culture, and I admire him greatly for setting new standards with regards to how a business can be used not just for profit, but to genuinely take care of both customers and employees in a way that much of Corporate America has lost sight of.
Despite that frustration, the book was successful in getting me to to think about what sort of work environment we would like to create for our own employees.
Although there were some positions he maintains I disagree with, the fact-of-the-matter way he talks about his background and his eventual work with Zappos makes him seem like a person who really is striving to do the right thing.
Whether that's the truth or just something he puts on his business card is another point entirely.I believe Tony had a great mission statement going into most of his projects, Zappos most definitely included, and I think it's a mantra that a lot of companies have adopted, especially in recent years.
He's an incredibly smart and hard-working person, but he comes from a family that that fits the mold for a lot of (Asian) households.
By sharing with the world the cohesion that existed between Tony, colleagues and employees within the company through both obstacles and triumphs, throughout the years, it demonstrates the effectiveness of faith, determination, and the implementation of positive psychology.
Tony has my respect because, he took risks (monetary and otherwise) that most other businesses, CEO's etc., who may (financially) be in a position to take on behalf of their employees, would not have taken.
There are CEOs who are in touch with their human side, who genuinely care for their employees and understand that employees' productivity is what drives the success of the company.
Throughout the book, I find the common principles that made the success of Zappos and brought Tony to the peak of wealth and fame that have brought many people up there: having passion, being persistent and hard - working, not afraid to be weird, focusing on real values, willing to share.
I learned that we actually need to make friends with colleagues (opposite with my previous thought that colleagues should only be colleagues), and we should build the team of people who we are comfortable hanging around outside of work.
I learned that happiness has three types: pleasure, passion, and being part of something bigger than you.
The book is all about business.
When I mean business, I mean Customer service.
Starting companies with big ideas won’t go good unless we provide dedicated customer service.
An innovative idea called Link Exchange, transformed his life into a millionaire.
One thing I understood from he not selling the Link exchange to Jerry is - Do not settle for less than what you deserve.This book is indeed a pocket guide to profit, passions and purpose.
Amazingly described each and every single situation the company went through from a normal online shoe shop to Zappos and then much more than imagination.
Hands down I give 5 starts for this amazing book.
Ви можете витратити багато часу на читання важких, теоретичних книг, які дадуть вам різні "tools & tips". Але якщо вам потрібна перерва, але не хочете витрачати час на читання сміття, це буде ідеальна книга.Не часто можна насолоджуватися чудовою історією і все-таки забрати цілий ряд уроків ... насправді, на відміну від багатьох інших бізнес-книг, ця може кинути виклик вам робити більше, робити по-іншому і робити це зараз. Історія Тоні Шея дуже надихає. "Ключем до успішної організації є люди, люди і ще раз люди"
This book is part autobiography of Tony Hsieh, part expository of Zappos's company culture, and part philosophy of happiness. With the author's straightforward and reveal-all (less Amazon M&A; benefit of the doubt: legal reasons?) writing style, this combination somehow works and makes for an enjoyable read/reflection.
So, as I was saying, When the book ‘Twilight’ was out, my ex-girl friend - who in fact never the slightest inclination to read even a 1 paged book, kept postponing our so called pre-planned romantic dates.
The reason?She had to complete reading another precious page of this foolish novel.I for the life of me couldn’t believe that she preferred the book over me.I mean, wasn’t ‘I’ the irresistible ball of joy?
Just read page 1 and I can assure you this much – you will know that this is indeed a book you must read.Overall, A fantastic book, A worthwhile book and A truly addictive read.
I've read some particularly meaningful books about entrepreneurship, business, and personal development that have motivated me in the past few years - including Jim Collins''Good to Great', 'The 4-Hour Workweek' by Tim Ferriss, 'Tribes' by Seth Godin, 'Outliers' and 'The Tipping Point' by Malcolm Gladwell, to name just a few, and Tony Hsieh's new book 'Delivering Happiness' has earned it's place at the top of the list as one of my new favorites.'Delivering Happiness' isn't a winded account of the history of Zappos (although frankly after reading it I'd be likely to read a thousand page book about Zappos), but an entertaining book written in Tony's own voice.
bề ngoài thì các công ty khác có thể ăn cắp được, nhưng khi Zappos đã làm cho bảng giá trị ăn sâu và nhân viên, thì hầu như không ai ăn cắp được.5 10 giá trị cốt lõi của Zappos là được toàn thể nhân viên đồng tình, chứ không phải là cấp cao đưa ra.
Nên các giá trị đó được sự cam kết mạnh mẽ6 Cái gì cốt lõi của công ty thì không được thuê ngoài.
But that positive experience and others have made me a loyal customer and also led to much of this book feeling very believable rather than thinking the stories and anecdotes were too good to be true.Maybe the warm fuzzy feelings I have for Zappos as a company/brand are part of the reason I enjoyed the book, but whatever the reason, I found it positive and personally inspiring.
I would love to work for a company like Zappos because their core values ring true for me, but I came away from the book with the feeling that some of the ideas can be applied in my own personal ways in any job I might have, either now or in the future.
The CEO's stories begin like an autobiography, detailing how he came around to deciding on customer service as a focus for his business, and the mistakes made along the way.
Whether you're a manager, ceo, or just a lowly front-line employee like myself, this book has the potential to change the way you do things, and can open your eyes to areas in your business that you never considered, where just the tiniest improvements can build into a movement.
There are a lot of takeaways - especially on how to build an open and transparent culture at a company, how to manage finances when the economy is down and a lot of other nitty gritty and fun parts of running a startup.But I what I really liked about this book is how Tony just writes about him like an average person with just one goal in life - make a lot of money.
(Like every other entrepreneur would go on to write about in the book after they're successful.
He was extraordinary to accomplish all this".No. Tony just shows us that he was an regular, average Joe like you and me who wanted to make some money.
це як суперзум чи googlemaps з калейдоскопічним розширенням горизонтів від масштабу села пісківка до континентального.на старті "delivering happiness" захоплює барвистою історією крізь окуляр спогадів і далі вже не відпускає ні охочих почитати про створення, вирощування і квітнення власного бізнесу, ні шукачів енергетичного копнячка бадьорливої дії, ні поціновувачів питань стратегії і живих прикладів непопулярних у "класичному" ("пересічному"?) бізнесі глобальних, гуманістичних ідей.
і поки ми намагаємось наздогнати вже стишені брижі фарватеру американської економічної історії (чи не часів іще громадянської війни) - в реальному часі на обширах від кентуккі до невади перемогу за перемогою здобуває людське ставлення в обох напрямах - і щодо клієнта, і щодо персоналу компанії.
One of the best book written by the CEO of world famous customer eccentric company - Tony Sheih.
The best thing is, he didn’t want to stop at anywhere looking behind and he focussed towards the business that he wanted to develop which resulted in the world famous shoe company Zappos.com.
Likewise Zappos also has created core values which they feel as important for their customers as well as for their employees, which is in short PLUR - Peace Love Unity Respect.
Zappos is one of the best example for the successful company which attained higher level by treating their customer more friendly and their employees with more importance.
In the words of Oprah, "What a GREAT read!"Overall the book provided great insight into the struggles many entrepreneurs experience, and sometimes don't share.
I doubt Tony wrote this book as a way to toot his own horn, but after reading about his (and Zappos) journey, I wouldn't judge him if he did :) Tony seems like the type of person who was destined for greatness.
The LinkExchange and Zappos comparison shows just how company culture can either stifle or inspire individual growth.
I would've given this book 5 stars but I don't like the fact he didn't go into when/how/why Nick was no longer involved in the company.
