https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/189123.Love_in_a_Fallen_City
I wanted to read this because it appeared on the Powell's list of 25 books to read before you die which also includes several of my favourite books.
Chang's anthology of Chinese life offers a bleak yet insightful analysis of male and female natures, domestic roles, moral values and self-centered relationships, masterfully depicting in elegant prose a past struggling to maintain control against a revolutionizing present.The title story, Love in a Fallen City, is a tale of two cities in transition - old Shanghai and modern Hong Kong - with the Japanese invasion of 1941 as a subtly structured backdrop, and owns one of Chang's rare hopeful endings.
A man clutches azaleas on a bus, the red coloring the window.
Pressed against the wall, her face bloomed with the opposite hues: red lips, shining eyes--a face of flesh and blood, alive with thought and feeling.You could read these stories as feminist tract.
You could read it as life, everyday life of real people, while the War looms.
Is it possible for us to ever understand one another?Life was like the Bible, translated from Hebrew to Greek, from Greek to Latin, from Latin to English, from English to Mandarin Chinese.
(Hint: like the azaleas, the moonlight, here, should be followed.)My favorite story was Sealed Off. A tramcar stops suddenly.
Small, cold dots.Ding-ding-ding.
Then again, how could you be expected to translate all of this in the title without putting footnotes on the front cover?When I was going through this collection, I felt that I was reading the same story written five or six times.
Love and longing in a colonial city on the border between the Western World and China, family disputes, and lamenting the loss of youth or independence.
But this is the same excellent story written five or six times, so I can't really dispute it.
Although the title reference is explicitly political, politics takes a background to the more subtle details of family disputes and internal thoughts.
In the title story a young divorcee is falling in love with a wealthy playboy; “Whenever they were in public, he made sure to give the impression of affectionate intimacy, so now there was no way to prove that they had not slept together”When he gives her up and despair sets in her family’s response is telling;“People who don’t have money can’t just give up, even if they want to.
Shave your head, become a nun, and when you beg for alms, you’ll still have to deal with people.”Chang’s powers of description are also very powerful; one of the stories begins; “The tramcar driver drove his tram, the tramcar tracks, in the blazing sun, shimmered like two shiny worms oozing out from water: stretch, then shrink, stretch, then shrink.
4.5/5 In China, as elsewhere, the constraints imposed by the traditional moral code were originally constructed for the benefit of women: they made beautiful women even harder to obtain, so their value rose, and ugly women were spared the prospect of never-ending humiliation. Women nowadays don't have this kind of protective buffer, especially not mixed-blood girls, whose status is entirely undefined. I love Pearl S. Buck, I really do, but the way her written legacy interfered with that of Eilee
True, Shanghai is not Paris or London, Berlin or New York, but you don't need white people to play out the conflicts of modern life on a theme of hope and decadence, luxurious backdrops galore to the young choking on the old, women flying too far to forget the taste when time comes for men to clip their wings.There's beauty, though, unfamiliar enough for me to spend a moment unraveling the colors and densities, landscapes heated to a different symphony of flora and fauna, living spaces enclosed within collections of wood and stone whose recognition comes only through many a visit to the houses of my friends, here in the Bay Area where the high school classes are 18% 'Caucasian' and the vernacular of ABC (American Born Chinese), banana (yellow on the out, white on the in), and egg (you get the picture) were the norm on campus grounds.
Part of my Fall 2017 Best Of Chinese Literature project; more here, and a cool list of books here.Eileen Chang, "arguably China’s most influential female writer," was a scholar of English literature, which gives Love in a Fallen City an interesting kind of familiarity.
As the Japanese invade and bombs fall in Hong Kong, they get married.
She could, with a single phrase, take you hostage." That doesn't quite ring it for me - I'm not really sure where we got Didion, other than glamour.
(I mean, look at her:Glamour indeed.) But I've only read the one thing.
Chang did in the early 20th century what Tan wants to do today - write stories that convey the relationships between men and women, old traditions vs.
(Not that it's fair to make comparisons, so I won't here.)These six stories included in this collection are hard at times to read due to their poignancy; but at other times, the prose is so heartbreakingly beautiful that it's hard to turn away.
The incandescence of moonlight permeates Eileen Chang’s prose, her stories tinged with the half-light of heartbreak and centred upon the lives of mainly upper or middle class Chinese women in the mid 20th century.
Although it would be disingenuous to label Chang as a writer whose novels are centred on feminism, she certainly actively explores the role of women in what was a patriarchal society-from the stifling nature of social conventions surrounding a woman’s role in Chinese society, to all of the prejudices and inhibitions which women faced, Chang’s female characters have rich and well-developed emotional lives.
The collection of stories by Eileen Chang set in Shanghai and Hong Kong in the 1940s.
Yet I wonder if I got everything, if I caught all the subtleties.
Maybe it is my lack of knowledge about China that keeps me distanced.
Maybe it is my warm southern upbringing mixed with my Nordic pragmatic adult reality, which is very different from customs in the book, maybe it is the mystery of Far East.
Whatever the reason is, I can’t say that I got the whole picture.
On the other hand, I really, really love the writing.
I'm always fascinated by customs that are different to my own and I found the old family structures expressed in Chang's short stories very interesting.
The short stories offer the escapism of romance, but also a lesson on many issues of an older China (and new?
I have no idea, but would be most interested to learn more about the changes in China since this time).At the same time, when reading Chang's book I often wondered whether I grasped everything or whether my vastly different upbringing left me distanced from the messages within it.
No suelo leer mucha literatura asiática y china aún menos y lo poco que he leído hasta ahora casi siempre ha sido de japón, pero este pequeño libro me llamó la atención por el título y por estar editado por asteroide que no me suele defraudar.
Me ha gustado pero tengo que decir que me ha sabido a poco , tal vez por mi falta de costumbre de leer a autores de ese continente con su peculiar forma de narrar tan diferente al de los autores europeos o americanos que es lo que suelo leer habitualmente y también por que los relatos cortos no me suelen enganchar de la misma forma que las novelas.
Eileen Chang connects this collection of short stories together by the common theme of troubled relationships. The turmoil of the relationships in these stories mirror the changes taking part in China during that time.While I always felt a sense of dread when starting each new story, knowing that it'll never end in happily ever after, I was also eager to see what twists and turns the characters would go through in their quest for love.
Edited@23/01/2015: I made some new discoveries during the re-reading of this book, I feel for a few time the author had overdone her beautiful writing, but outside of this, it's still a worthy collection of short stories.Love In a Fallen City is a collection of Chang's most well known novella: Aloeswood Incense: The First Brazier, Love In a Fallen City, The Golden Cangue, Sealed Off and Red Rose, White Rose.
But in fact disillusion of romantic love, family relationship and friendship seem to be a more common and dominating theme for Miss Chang's novellas.The titled act Love In a Fallen City, considered by many as one of Miss Chang's masterpieces, is also one of the few Chang's stories to have a slightly happier ending.
A collection of six brilliant novellas and stories by the great Chinese author.Book Review: Love in a Fallen City is so obviously good that it tests the limits of translated fiction.
Written when Chinese culture was changing, traditions were failing, war and revolution threatening.
Eileen Chang explored universal human emotions in a time and milieu almost completely foreign to Western readers.
Each story in Love in a Fallen City is individual, with Chang trying different techniques and approaches.
The stories in Love in a Fallen City reward slow reading, even re-reading, yet the reader wants to skim ahead to find what happens because we care about these people.
Another one bites the dust.First story is Aloeswood Incense.
Lovely but bittersweet.
Love is a dangerous drug.
3.5/5.Second story: Jasmine Tea. OMFG.
What an unlikeable, heinous character, rendering this short story practically unreadable.
0.5/5 stars.That last story soured the entire reading experience for me.
I knew this book wasn't for me after I realized that I refused to bring it in my commute to and from the uni.
I downright preferred to stare into nothingness than continue reading this book.
I prefer to read anything other than this.
Mee's rating: 4.5/5Review first published at: http://www.meexia.com/bookie/2010/07/...Love in a Fallen City was picked for our Asian Book Group. It's a perfect selection after The Good Earth, because both women wrote in the same era, both about China. Buck is even mentioned in the Introduction by Karen S. Kingsbury, the translator. "[Chang] tried , with little success, to break into the English-language fiction market... But the cultural and linguistic gaps were to wide to cross. As C. T. Hsia,
Sealed Off is told to be one of the stories that impressed Hu Lancheng, an influential man of the time, that "he looked her up, swept her off her feet, and became her husband" (from the Introduction).Last, another favorite of mine, is Red Rose, White Rose.
Just brilliant.This is the short story that was picked by Jeffrey Eugenides to be included in anthology he edited: My Mistress's Sparrow is Dead, whose short stories I've been reading and talking about here several times before.Like Hong Kong the city, the recurrent theme in the book is fusion or clash between the East and the West.
Contents:3*Jasmine Tea4*Love in a Fallen City3*The Golden Cangue2*Sealed Off3*Red Rose, White RoseThis is my first book that I've read by this author and I really liked it. See my ratings for each story.3* Love in Fallen CityTR Little Reunions
Beautiful but cold.
Como dice la propia autora, son historias "corrientes", nada que no se haya leído antes, así que la belleza reside en la prosa. Me gusta mucho como escribe esta señora, por lo que la lectura ha sido más que satisfactoria. He disfrutado más la novela corta que le da título al libro que el relato que va después, pero supongo que eso ya es cuestión de gustos.
She had to return to her mother's apartment in occupied Shanghai,Remarkably, Chang's literary career flourished under the Japanese.
It is a tale of love and longing, but the tone is dark and melancholy, even though Sixth Sister Liusu gets her man...The Bai family are conservatives who don't answer the door after dark because that's against the rules of the 'old etiquette'.Fourth Master sat still and listened, but since Third Master, Third Mistress, and Fourth Mistress were shouting all at once as they came up the stairs, he couldn't understand what they were saying.
I wanted to like this book more than I actually did because a) she’s a female Chinese writer b) writing during the first half of the 20th century c) while China was under Japanese rule and Shanghai and Hong Kong are crumbling around her.
The female protagonists were the least objectionable and there was more character development and the love story seemed more plausible.For me, the most interesting parts of the book are the struggles between East and West which almost always means Traditional vs.
At first, I thought Chang was assuming West/Modern > East/Traditional but then I read something like this: “She was a good daughter, a good student.
In her own introduction to the text, Chang explains that "In the savage wilderness, the woman who comes to power is not, as most people imagine, a wild rose with big, black, burning eyes, stronger than a man, whip in hand, ready to strike at any moment.
Indeed, the first two stories are about the coming of age of a young woman, in Aloeswood Incense, and young man, in Jasmine Tea. While detailed with images like "But her heart had slipped away from Liang and Lu as lightly as a dragonfly grazes the water, before carelessly flying off somewhere.
I bought this short story/novella collection because I loved Chang's story "Red Rose, White Rose" in the anthology My Mistress's Sparrow is Dead.
As it is now, there are a few endnotes (not marked in the stories themselves), the subjects of which seem to have been chosen somewhat arbitrarily.
I suppose this might also be one of the reasons why I like "Red Rose, White Rose" the best; it is easier to understand.
The cold and the dark returned.""She walked over to the bed and leaned over the white metal railing, her whole body a painful question mark."
Ove novele su napisane četrdesetih, dok je još živela u Kini i daju lep uvid u običaje, način života, udvaranja, izjava i odbijanja ljubavi, očekivanja, nadanja predstavnika da kažemo neke više srednje klase, pre svega žena.
U svakom slučaju, lep prozor u drugi svet i drugo vreme, potpuno različito od onog na šta sam navikla, a opet, brinu ih univerzalne brige svih žena uključujući i današnje.Čitanje ove knjige bilo je neobično iskustvo za mene.
S druge strane, moral, tradicija, običaji, svakodnevni život, sve to se mnogo razlikuje i od naših pojmova a kamoli engleskih.
But she also renders life in Shanghai with such vividness and specificity that the book almost seems to represent her love for the city, theme and form and setting united, etc.
The stories I abandoned were more traditional in form and style.
While they had their charms, I had trouble paying attention to (and I failed to parse in some cases) the complicated social constructs they kept as their backbones.
I was reminded of the strait-lacedness of Jane Austen's social milieus and their attendant witticisms which come off like so much blather to me.
Chang crafted prose full of precise description that is so beautiful and often sad that I hurt to read it.
Perhaps that's fitting for a book full of melancholy tales.
None of her characters find any lasting happiness.
They are separated from others due to gender, class, and time.
Men and women are no longer sure of their place in relationships, society, or work.
Love affairs bring temporary connections, but no lasting comfort, and often repercussions.
A modernizing China offers no guidelines.
Chang's characters muddle through their lives and their changing state.
She dispassionately relates their tales as only a fellow traveler can.
One of the first NYRB Classics I heard of—in tandem with John Williams’  Stoner —was Eileen Chang’s collection of novellas Love in a Fallen City. My bibliophilic enabler Aunt Anne sent me this book late last year, and it’s taken me this long to settle down and read it. And, you know, it was awesome.For purposes of brevity [sorely lacking in my corner of the internet], this post is going to focus on the title novella. Which is, well, one of the best nerve-wracking, most quietly and dignifiedly te
Hell, one of the most poignant scenes in the novella, for me: when Fan Liuyuan, after a day of hide-and-seek, calls Liusu from his room, which shares a wall with hers.
In the stillness of the room, that most quiet of nights, his voice is so clear:“Liusu, from your window, can you see the moon?”She didn’t know why, but suddenly she was sobbing.
I pressed the book against my face, squealed, read the passage again, and swooned once more.Also, in SashaLand, it’s not a love story if no one relents.
I particularly liked the title story, set in Shanghai and Hong Kong just before (and during) the Japanese attack in 1941, and Red Rose, White Rose, contrasting one man’s divided loyalties between his “spotless wife” (white rose) and his “passionate mistress” (red rose).
Born in 1920 to an aristocratic family in Shanghai she studied literature at the Univ of Hong Kong until 1941, when the Japanese attack on that city forced her to return to Shanghai.
Despite a resurgence of interest in her work beginning in the 1970s in Taiwan and Hong Kong (and eventually moving to mainland China), she became ever more reclusive.
留情/ Mercy: The story starts out with tension between a mature age couple over the issue of the husband's ex-wife.
Despite the inevitable conflicts between a couple, at the end of day, what matters is the care and understanding they have for each other, that the marriage may just be more than an economic exchange.茉莉香片/ Jasmine Tea: A melancholy story in which the reader gets mired in the protagonist's deeply resentful state of mind.
An old love story between his mother and a tutor that did not come to be, his father's endless criticism of him, and his desire for a loving family conspired into an obsession of the past; of what could be.
