https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/139352.Light_on_the_Yoga_S_tras_of_Pata_jali
Each page is a lifetime of learning. I'll be reading this book the rest of my life.
On the first reading I was feeling a bit bogged down by the sanskrit, and especially by parts of Vibhuti Pada.
There is a big difference, however, between having somewhat of an intellectual and superficial grasp on this material and having fully absorbed and assimilated it into the psyche, and these are concepts that I will likely be (willingly!) exploring, feeling into and integrating for the rest of my life.
Iyengar is a stellar representative of the traditions and sacredness of yoga for those of us who embrace it in the West.
I love this book and I highly recommend this translation. Iyengar has the sanskrit word by word translation, then each verse, then his own commentary. Amazing. Great if you want to see the original language and the Iyengar's insights.
I dig the intellectual puzzle of esoteric yoga scriptures but even more so, they always leave me suddenly calm and full of perspective. Iyengar's translation was a standout for me among many others I read because he seemed to have lived his yoga. The book, especially the 3rd section, Vibhuti Pada, was a key inspiration for THE YOGA OF MAX'S DISCONTENT, my first international novel.
I will actually be reading this book over and over for a long time. It is an in depth explanation on the philosophy of yoga. It is dense and there is much to be learned here. I recommend it to anyone who is interested in Hindu philosophy and yoga.
Now I've read it once. This is the start of a beautiful relationship with a book.
Intense. Not for the faint yogi or philosopher. Excellent description and explanation of the sutras. If you're working on your sanskrit, it's a good book for that.
I had been wading through this book for some time. Finally something clicked and I was able to understand much more clearly the nuances of the consciousness that were being discussed. I find humor in this as it is actually written very clearly, but my mind was not able to remain focused on the subject in the beginning.A wide ranging look at the consciousness and how it relates to our journey through life.
Concentration on the sutras is vital and reading them is one of contemplation and letting everything sink in. BKS Iyengar gives the most clear and concise definitions of the sutras. It is a must read.
I love the commentary, the graphs and pretty much everything in this great book.Can t recomend it more to all Yogis out there who want to dive deeper into the Yoga Sutras
So poetic, easy to understand, and beautiful. I will read this again and again. Has changed my life, I finished it last night and had the most amazing dream.
This is not the type of thing you read and then put away. This is a book to dedicate oneself to. Intense.
Mark well that the bulk of what we call yoga stems from these pithy aphorisms first written down by the Indian sage Patanjali some eighteen hundred years ago.* One can see in this authoritative, comprehensive--indeed, nearly exhaustive--translation and commentary that Iyengar aspires to take his place among the great yogis of history.
Better yet, the reader can have reference to another translation (I have Ernest Wood's, Alistair Shearer's and Barbara Stoler Miller's in front of me, but there are many others) and compare the results, and in doing so, come to a fuller appreciation of Patanjali's sometimes enigmatic words.Finally there are Iyengar's commentaries on each of the aphorisms, some of which cover several pages.
A yoga reference book,,,I will never officially “finish” this book, but I have read the introduction multiple times in hopes of soaking in some of the explanations. “Yoga is the union of body, mind, and soul, and with God.” Patanjali gives experiential intelligence to the yoga sutras,,,it’s a discussion of philosophy behind the concept of yoga, not about postures. There are 196 sutras, each concerning an aspect of the path to enlightenment through yoga. Way over my head! But it’s a path...not a destination.
A masterful treatment by a master of the science of yoga.
Thank you to my dear teacher, Oma, who recommend this book.It is by far the most user friendly version of the sutras I have read to date.#vibratehigher
Book that contains insight on yoga sutras of legendary bhagwan Patanjali. Bks Iyengar did awesome job.
Patañjali is brilliant, no doubt, but I prefer other translations/commentaries.
A tough read with difficult concepts
Read this book after some years of practice. It will make more sense.
Not sure I'll ever "finish" reading this. Great resource for those interested in yoga philosophy.
This is not the translation of the yoga sutras for me.
So much easier to understand than other translations and commentary. I am blown away at the wealth of knowledge shared in this book.
A great guide to come back to! But, difficult to read when a beginner in the yoga theory. It's rich in explanations and wisdom.
To anyone keen on entering the vast, wise world of Yoga and embarking on a spiritual journey, this book is a must read. The eternal wisdom of Patanjali, offered as intense nuggets, have been profoundly and brilliantly explained by the renowned yoga guru B.K.S.Iyengar. As the book progresses, you can't help but feel a change in your attitude towards life. A worthy read that will assist in your yogic practices and spiritual journey.
This is an awesome interpretation of the Yoga Sutras. I gave it 5 stars because it was great in terms of breaking down and explaining every sutra in detail. However, the language is very colloquial, which a lot of readers might not appreciate. That said, some readers may not read the book in its entirety because many sutras are complex and would require a steady yoga practice to really understand. However, 5 stars because it was a great source for the English interpretaion of the sutras.
I mean. It's where yoga comes from! Anyone interested in buddhism, yoga, hinduism or just living with more compassion should definitely read this. But don't think too hard ... it is all meaningless ;)
i read this ish cover to cover, which maybe i wouldn't recommend. this book has a lot of great gems in it, but even just the practice of reading it was a great exercise in abstract thinking as well as simple awareness.
A complete guide to unravel the dynamics of disentanglement as portrayed in dualistic theories of Samkhya. Great start for students of classical yoga.
Probably Iyengar's best work. He still sees the Sutras in a religious vein, but that is OK. He brings out wonderful ideas.
