https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/31426.The_Collected_Poems
Astute, ironic, and intense, Plath's poems brood over a wide range of topics, through language that's cutting in its precision. The poet's sharp intellect consistently is interesting, but her early collections read as less forceful and breathtaking than her later ones; with age, Plath moved away from the stiff but accomplished formalism of her early poetry toward a risk-taking aesthetic of the theatrical. Had she had the chance to develop that style, she likely would have fulfilled her early promise and published several daring volumes.
“Out of the ashI rise with my red hairand I eat men like air.”

(Hemingway commited suicide too, but if I recall correctly people celebrate his LIFE and not his death.) And don't even get me started on all those who read Plath and practically no other poetry.Sounds like I don't like her much, eh?
Her work is good, and not about suicide (or sad things) at all.
"Daddy" good as it is, isn't even close to her best work (though it may be the most quintessential).
The best way to read her, IMHO is to pretend you know nothing of the women and get over the obsession with tacking every poem to her biography.
This will only lead to ridicule and the epiphany that close family and friends have not been laughing with you all those years, but at you....Finally, I mostly read this book because I was accused of being misogynistic due to the lack of women authors I have read.
After reading Sylvia Plath (a woman), I hope you all think I am not misogynistic anymore...However, I still believe women have smaller brains and belong in the kitchen...I don't know, after sobering up, her words are a bit clamoured together and read densely.
I keep coming back to Sylvia Plath whenever I'm trying to make sense of my own troubles.
Since my troubles rarely make sense, that means I come back to this quite often.Which is so incredibly cliched, it would normally make me cringe.
I mean, its screams "I'm a damaged girl, and I read Sylvia Plath, just like all the other damaged girls!"But I don't cringe, because ultimately, her poetry makes me feel.
Its the only book I have ever taken a pencil to and its incredibly private.
I'm selfish with it.Each time I pick it up, I flick to a random page, and take it all in again afresh.
My psychiatrist laughed when I said I read Sylvia Plath, "why do all you young women" etc.
But to say that's all she's good for, as if there's no merit or instruction in her work...And then, once again, it's back to the emotional Plath -- phrases that crush your head both because they are so well wrought and also because you know exactly what she was talking about.I've spent a dozen years reading this book and I've learned that Plath and I may cross over emotionally, but our poetic jaws are not the same.
http://angelerin.blogspot.com/2016/03...I really enjoyed reading Sylvia Plath's poetry.
So when I saw there was a book of her poetry I just had to buy it and read it.Sylvia Plath's writing is just so addicting.
Everything flows beautifully and I just loved so many of these poems.
I still wish I was there on vacation reading this book of poetry.These poems are just so emotional and honest.
There is just something about Sylvia Plath's writing that I connect with at the very core of myself.
Overall I thought The Collected Poems of Sylvia Plath was a great book of poetry that I would recommend to all Sylvia Plath fans, even if you aren't a poetry fan.

Sylvia Plath's poetry is the North American (late) response to French Symbolism and Latin Magic Realism.
Böcklin is another artist she often refers to, sharing his gothic fantasies of imaginary Lands of the Dead.Also her affinity with Magic Realism emerges in the way she looks to the world through the eyes of animals and other unexpected subjects, such as in "Mushrooms" and "Blue Moles".
It really does not get much better than Sylvia Plath.
So it turns out "The Collected Poems" means literally everything Sylvia Plath EVER wrote.
It's arranged more or less chronologically, and when I was about halfway through the book I was all set to only give it three stars.
At 2/3 of the way through, it had gone up to four stars, and by the last 20-30 pages there was no way it was getting anything less than five.
Although her earlier poems aren't to my particular taste, and you can tell her command of the craft is still developing, it's so wonderful to be able to trace that evolution from obviously talented novice to absolute master.
What we need is an edition of selected poems, not simply Ariel in one form or another, that judiciously picks from all the work, surrenders biography to anything other than a note on the author, and keeps Ted Hughes many arm lengths away (with all due respect, sir).
A sensational life story does not write a poem, and neither does such a biography warrant that we collect and document every scribbling ever written by an author.
Here's my favorite poem from this book:The night is only a sort of carbon paper,Blueblack, with the 
Un oasis intelectual.
Los poemas de Sylvia Plath son como las cicatrices, escritos en tinta indeleble.
Sus poemas están colgados del techo, desgarran lentamente la carne del lector, igual que los ganchos de un matadero.
Son los poemas de alguien que no pudo con la vida, de alguien que no sobrevivió.
De alguien que es íntima amiga de la tristeza.
La desolación habla a través de los versos de Sylvia.
«Faremo come se fosse stato soltanto un brutto sogno.»Un brutto sogno.Per chi è chiuso sotto una campana di vetro, vuoto e bloccato come un bambino nato morto, il brutto sogno è il mondo.Io ricordavo tutto.Forse l'oblio, come una neve gentile, avrebbe dovuto attutire e coprire tutto.Ma quelle cose facevano parte di me. Erano il mio paesaggio.Sylvia Plath, La campana di vetro
The Bell Jar sank my heart, broke it in two, and revived it again.
Each poem has a beautiful life of its own, but together as an anthology, the poems show Plath's true heart, fickle, angry, passionate, uninhibited.
From the more disturbing poems like "Daddy" to finding eloquent beauty is simple things like "Black Rook in Rainy Weather".This collection is the best there is.
While "Ariel" may be her most famous collection, this anthology includes so much more, compiling a collection of poems that span her writing career, from 1956-1963, as well as some of her early work.
Introduction Poems 1956-1963 1956--Conversation Among the Ruins--Winter Landscape, with Rocks--Pursuit--Bucolics--Tale of a Tub--Southern Sunrise--Channel Crossing--Prospect--The Queen's Complaint--Ode for Ted--Firesong--Song for a Summer's Day--Two Sisters of Persephone--Vanity Fair--Strumpet Song--Tinker Jack and the Tidy Wives--Faun--Street Song--Letter to a Purist--Soliloquy of the Solipsist--Dialogue Between Ghost and Priest--The Glutton--Monologue at 3 a.m.--Miss Drake Proceeds to Supper--
A Selection of Fifty Early Poems--Bitter Strawberries--Family Reunion--Female Author--April 18--Gold mouths cry--Dirge for a Joker--To Eva Descending the Stair--Cinderella--Jilted--Sonnet: To Eva--Bluebeard--Aquatic Nocturne--Notes to a Neophyte--Metamorphoses of the Moon--Dialogue En Route--To a Jilted Lover--The Dream--Sonnet: To Time--The Trial of Man--April Aubade--Go get the goodly squab--Trio of Love Songs--Lament--Doomsday--Moonsong at Morning--Doom of Exiles--The Dispossessed--Admonitions--Never try to trick me with a kiss--The Dead--Danse macabre--Circus in Three Rings--Prologue to Spring--Song for a Revolutionary Love--Sonnet to Satan--A Sorcerer Bids Farewell to Seem--Midsummer Mobile--On Looking into the Eyes of a Demon Lover--Insolent storm strikes at the skull--Denouement--Two Lovers and a Beachcomber by the Real Sea--Black Pine Tree in an Orange Light--Terminal--Love Is a Parallax--Aerialist--Morning in the Hospital Solarium--The Princess and the Goblins--Touch-and-Go--Temper of Time--Epitaph in Three PartsUncollected Juvenilia: A complete list of poems composed before 1956Index of Titles and First Lines

I have never really liked poetry, so I wasn't sure if I was going to like this book when I first started it, but after reading this collection my feelings have really changed.
For example, in her poem "Cut" she writes about cutting her thumb while cooking.
While this sounds mundane, her choice of words and tempo make a hauntingly beautiful poem.
It reads "Dying Is an art, like everything else.
I would recommend this book to people for like poetry and have long attention spans, because staying focused was the main thing I had a problem with.
i'm not into poetry, but i love plath. i was hooked first on her recording of The Thin Peopleshe's grim, she's angry, she's mad. i love her brutal emotion. and her use of alliteration is unrivaled. yummy. i'd like to die wrapped in her words, like a spider's snack, woven and suffocated in them :)
I think this collection may be even more essential than Ariel, though Ariel is more of a landmark. This book is literally therapy for me. I don't care if Plath is a cliche; she was a genius and you can experience it through this work.
Review to come.
"El cielo y yo trabamos conversación abierta,así seré más útil cuando por fin me una con la tierra."Sylvia Plath compuso poemas desgarradores. Hace que no quieras dejar de leerla. Esta edición, sin embargo, deja mucho que desear, pues solo es una selección aleatoria de algunos de sus poemas. De ahí las 3 estrellas.
These are beautiful, honest, wrenching poems.
In CHILD, Sylvia Plath tells her baby how she would love for his beautiful eyes to reflect only wonderful things rather than the anxious, troubled spirit she has become.
Speaking in the first person, she tells the “unmisted” truth to her ungrateful mistress, not out of cruelty but faithfulness.
The Mirror says of her mistress: “In me she has drowned a young girl, and in me an old woman Rises toward her day after day, like a terrible fish.” I recommend reading Plath’s poetry along with her novel, THE BELL JAR, as they complement each other.
فتشت كثيرا علي هذا الكتاب ... اعتقد انه يجمع جميع اشعار سيلفيا بلاث او اغلبها، رغم ان القراءة لسيلفيا بلاث تتركني في حالة نفسية سيئة ولكنها تستحق المخاطرة ... ضعت ووجدت نفسي الاف المرات اثناء قراءتي هذا الكتاب .... دخلت في دوامات نور وظلام لا نهائية .... احببت جميع الاشعار القصيرة والطويلة، احببت بطريقة خاصة lady Lazarus pursuit i am vertical the thin people قرأتها نسخة كيندل وساحرص علي اقتناء نسخه ورقيه .. لانني اريد تحديد الاشعار التي احببتها بشكل خاص ...
When I first tackled this in 2009, I just... didn't get it. If you feel the same, especially if you love the Bell Jar as I do, come back to it. It's worth it.
this took me way too long to read, but it was absolutely beautiful.
I am fascinated by insanity, instability, depression. People who fall into that hole and never get out, who resurface only to fall right back in. I am fascinated by their stories, how they got there, how things end, and how they get there. Sylvia Plath’s poetry is about all of these things, but also about everything else, and I have always been fascinated by this woman who has been dead for almost 50 years. She is notorious for many things, her honesty, her imagery, and the way she took her own
Sylvia Plath’s poetry is about all of these things, but also about everything else, and I have always been fascinated by this woman who has been dead for almost 50 years.
Trying to explain Sylvia Plath’s poetry will not be easy.
She met her husband, she had children, and she was even a teacher for a brief period at her alma mater (Smith College.) She returned to England, her marriage fell apart, and over the course of 7 years, Sylvia wrote hundreds of poems.
But Ariel, her second collection which was published posthumously, came quickly over the course of the final months of her life.
.
