https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/30095464-the-bone-witch
When it raised its head, I saw that it had my brother’s face, drawn and bloodless and dead.“Tea,” the figure said.But then it smiled, and it was Fox’s smile, quiet and kind. Oh hey! Remember me? I used to review YA books but stopped for a long ass time because I got burned out from reading boring/shitty ones. This book is the first new release YA I've read in what feels forever, because, well, hello? NECROMANCY! WHOO! Unfortunately, the book that brought about my return to reviewing and YA wasn
I used to review YA books but stopped for a long ass time because I got burned out from reading boring/shitty ones.
Unfortunately, the book that brought about my return to reviewing and YA wasn't the most amazing one.I mean, it was aight, it was pretty boring though.
One good thing though, I liked her style of writing in this book, her descriptions were lovely, and I can't really describe them as anything other than light and delightful.
Mykaela is probably my favorite character in this world, and is an amazing teacher/mother figure to Tea. She completely takes her under her wing and teaches her about bone witches and their duties, while putting Tea on the path to become a very powerful asha.
A couple of the more negative things about this book would probably be the potential for a love triangle and the fact that Tea definitely suffers from special snowflake syndrome.
Reread At first I couldn't get into the book because I didn't know what all was going on, I'm still not sure on a few things.I very much enjoyed the characters of Tea and Fox, they were siblings. And Tea kinda sorta brought Fox back to life when he died.  What other reprimands he intended died on his tongue when the ground began to move. A terrible rumbling and heaving began underneath us, beneath the fresh dirt that made up Fox's grave. There was a muffled splintering inside that small mound, l
Reread At first I couldn't get into the book because I didn't know what all was going on, I'm still not sure on a few things.I very much enjoyed the characters of Tea and Fox, they were siblings.
Even though people come to the Bone Witch's for things they don't trust them and it would have caused a lot of trouble for Tea and Fox to stay with their family.
There are all kinds of things going on in the book, some strange things that I want to learn more about.
Possibly 2.5*Need to sit on this one for a bit before I review. I flew through it but not really in a good way.
Actual Rating: 1.5 StarsI have finally reached the end of this long,  long  journey.The Bone Witch has an amazing sounding premise, interesting writing, and semi-diverse characters. Unfortunately, it's a book that sounds better in summary than it proves to be in execution. Premise: In the grip of sorrow, Tea accidentally raises her brother from the dead. Her newfound ability sends her into an apprenticeship to become a Bone Witch, or a Dark Asha. Dark Asha generally serve to protect the kingdom
journey.The Bone Witch has an amazing sounding premise, interesting writing, and semi-diverse characters.
It was mentally exhausting.Every so often I would find myself completely captivated by a sentence or two, but there wasn't enough good here to outweigh the bad.
It's wonderful to see different cultural influences and an array of skin colors in our books.But personality-wise I found almost every character incredibly dull and predictable.I wanted desperately to like the relationship that bloomed between Tea and the brother that she raised from the dead, Fox. But a large portion of the interactions between characters felt forced.
And what's worse, I've read a couple of reviews according to which the second half is even slower.
I don't even think that's humanly possible, but I'm not as crazy as to put that to the test.•We get to see too little necromancy for me to put up with this waste land of a story.•A love triangle is to come in the second half -I know because the protagonist, who narrates the story in retrospection, says so.
I could have accepted that had I at least been spared the love triangle.•The characters are as flat as they get.
BEHOLD, the fruit of my loins!
https://t.co/9ZUUQUWqYKWhat you can expect from THE BONE WITCH: 1.
Undead gigantic demonic beasts that do not die for long, no matter how many times you kill them4.
Bone witches who can CONTROL undead gigantic demonic beasts, albeit not indefinitely5.
A couple of guys who can forge people new hearts to wear (and will be pretty important in the next book, which I am working on atm) --7.
-- because almost everyone literally wears their hearts around their necks.Hope you guys enjoy reading The Bone Witch as much as I enjoyed writing it!Expected release: March 7, 2017
Release date: March 7, 2017This is one of those books that's so wonderfully creative it just makes you wake up while reading it.
Lady Mykaela takes Tea to the city to train to be an asha for a few years...
There's a lot of neat stuff with the worldbuilding in the beginning, like how people wear a heartsglass and Tea can read their emotions on it.
I started out thinking I'd give the book 5 stars but then slowly just...
Tea was a super bland main character and there wasn't much to connect with.
There is also a bone witch who summons the dead (which is a lot rarer and obviously where the title of the book comes from).What I LOVE about the book is how you can tell people's emotions, worry and temperment from this "heart" they were as a necklace.
"I'm just a boring girl with all this power and I am the chosen one" is what I gathered from this.They were doing this interesting concept where she is telling this story to someone who is going to write it in the history book.
that ending...First things first, let me talk about my overall thoughts and opinions on The Bone Witch.As many of you have known, the Bone Witch has a lot of mixed reviews from several people.
I honestly thought I would end up giving this book a 2-star rating but it's actually really good!Before we get into the review, I want to say something.
Look, there might be a lot of things you could like about the book, from the world to the characters to the magic.
Despite the negative reviews and a few faults that were within the book, I really did like The Bone Witch.
I understand it is world building, but can we get a little action thrown in?
Hopefully the next book will be more action since all the world building was done in this one.On to the characters.
I needed to know what happened between what I was reading and why the present seemed so gloomy in comparison.All in all, the book was really interesting, in depth, and imaginative, but a bit boring in the middle.
It was still a good book but it could've used a little more action, drama, or progress.
If you prefer world building to action, this is definitely for you.
DNF @ 11%-I'm really bored.-So much info dumping?? Like what is even happening?-It's confusing.-Not holding my interest.This is a DNF for now, which is why I'm not rating it. I can't focus on this while reading on my kindle. I'll probably buy my own copy and read it once it gets released and give it another try.I received a copy from Netgalley in exchange for an honest review.
I DNFed a lot of books in 2016, and I wanted to be a good little reviewer by not doing that as much this year. The Bone Witch challenged my resolve every single step of the way. Which is a real shame, because the premise sounded SO GOOD, but the execution just falls flat like a pancake. The Bone Witch is a pancake.• The purple prose goes haywire from beginning to end.• The book is essentially 90% descriptions and 10% story.• On top of that, the descriptions were also part of huge sections of inf
I DNFed a lot of books in 2016, and I wanted to be a good little reviewer by not doing that as much this year.
Which is a real shame, because the premise sounded SO GOOD, but the execution just falls flat like a pancake.
The Bone Witch is a pancake.•	The purple prose goes haywire from beginning to end.•	The book is essentially 90% descriptions and 10% story.•	On top of that, the descriptions were also part of huge sections of info-dumping, leaving me reeling with information I was never able to remember.•	Seriously, what actually happened in this book?
It had a lot of potential.
It was true that I was born at the height of an eclipse, when the sky closed its only moon eye too wink back at the world, like my arrival was a private joke between old friends. Or perhaps the moon read my fate in the stars and hid, unwilling to bear witness to my birth. It is the kind of cataclysm people associate with bone witches. But surely normal children have been born under this cover of night, when the light refused to shine, and went on live perfectly normal lives? The Bone Witch is s
The second took place in the present where the narrator met an exiled asha in the Sea of Skulls, who seems to be hiding dark secrets in the slit of her dress.We have a main character named, Tea, who accidentally resurrected her dead brother.
The people in her village, doesn't know how to hone her skills except for the powerful asha, Lady Mykaela, who serves the Kingdom.
Thirdly, we have a girl who is the last thread of dark ashas and she’s reinventing a way to save her kind.
5. Unexpected bonds between a sister and the now almost-indestructible dead brother she kinda sort of accidentally resurrected (who still maintains a surprising sense of humor about the whole thing) True.
A couple of guys who can forge people new hearts to wear (and will be pretty important in the next book, which I am working on atm) -- Oh, I liked them!
I liked the myth created here.- Tea and her brother : it wasn't hyper developed despite the fact both characters are central to the story, but it was there and I enjoyed their odd siblings link.
GUYS I just got an arc of this book via NetGalley and I'm so excited, it's my first ARC ever!
So the lyrical, wondrous writing, where the author ultimately took this story, and last but most definitely not least, that GORGEOUS COVER ...
(Most often, in reviews only, I round down; an oddity, given my affection for math.)So who would enjoy this book?
I bet if you liked the Cinder series, you'd love this book.
Those who will like the Red Queen series likely would love The Bone Witch as well.
But in fact, I'm having a tough time finding books with which to compare this one.
If you love high fantasy, I cannot imagine you'll not love The Bone Witch.
(I received an advance copy of this book for free. Thanks to SOURCEBOOKS Fire and NetGalley.)  "This is death magic, complicated and exclusive and implacable, and from the start, I wielded it with ease."  This was a YA fantasy story, about a girl with the power of necromancy. Tea was quite a strong character, and I liked how she wasn't afraid to stand up and act when the situation called for it. I also found the way she discovered her powers (by raising her brother from the dead), to be pretty a
I also found the way she discovered her powers (by raising her brother from the dead), to be pretty awesome.The storyline in this was quite slow, and mainly dealt with Tea leaving her family to go and train with another bone witch/Dark Asha, and it wasn't until right at the end of the book that we got a bit of action in the form of a 'daeva' - some kind of monster, which Tea had to go up against.
The slow pace leading up to this point started to bother me though, and it felt like the book had no real plot other than describing Tea's training and clothing.
Tea's dark asha power lies in commanding the dead and she is taken away to be trained by an ancient bone witch.However, despite the excellent world building, I couldn't get past the fact that this book was so boring for the majority of the plot.
I think this might have been because a lot of the characters were royalty, but because they acted this way, I couldn't get a good sense of their personalities hidden behind polite small talk.Tea's relationship with her brother, Fox, also felt unrealistic.
If you're only interested in break neck speed plotting with paper thin characters don't bother with this one.But if you love original fantasy novels that spend time developing the character and world you will appreciate this awesome novel.The main character is something of an anti-hero which I appreciated.
There is very little romance, although I'd guessed who she was bringing back to life in the final chapter long before she did it.
I'm excited and hopeful about how the author will develop the romance because I felt the development of Tea's crush in this book was pretty thin (which made sense given the final reveal).
You've got magic galore in this story, which focuses around a protagonist gifted with a unique ability to raise the dead.
Most of the fantasy books where worldbuilding works really well are upwards of 900+ pages long.
The story here is 400 pages, and it is an endless and exhausting stream of information from page 1 to the very end.
Even aspects of Tea's powers come totally out of left field near the end of the story in a way that feels like a cheat.
Until the end of the book, when she suddenly feels his physical pain.
A huge thanks goes to Rin Chupeco and Sourcebooks Fire for the opportunity to submit this unbiased opinion.A story collecter has a dream and chases down an asha, an exiled bone witch with her own tale to tell, even at the age of seventeen.
The story she tells begins with her girlhood while she was known as Tea in her large family, who brings her older brother, Fox, back from the dead.
The book flips between past perspective of Tea's training and education, and the present, which winds through the explanations of the daeva and their bezoars.
I was so excited when I got an ARC of this book but when the reviews started coming in I started getting a little bit apprehensive.
I didnt like Parmina and Zoya but I dont think I was suppose to.
I just think the daily routine and some of the details could have been cut out to shorten the book.
Although I needed to reminded myself often that the present time was told from the Bards perspective.I really loved the ending and the twists.
This book was so good I hope I get the chance to review the sequel.
But having to train to be a bone witch isn't really much to go on.
I really wanted to keep going, but having no interest in the characters is hard to keep your attention.
I love the concept of the bone witches and their powers.
There are hints of oppression and prejudice against the bone witches and I thought that was vaguely interesting too, but again, not enough for my short attention span.
Kudos to the cover designers for putting a POC character on the cover and not whitewashing her.
The book's design is just intricately beautiful.QUOTESYou hate us for nothing more than prejudice.
“We can endure any amount of sadness for the people we love.”So bored ... I thought that it might be interesting. At first I thought of giving up after reading 10 to 15 pages. But I kept reading thinking that it will be interested from the next page. This is full of descriptive paragraphs rather than actions. And I found the same sentences being repeated. Even a conversation between two people are with more descriptive paragraphs. “There is no greater strength than the ability to understand and accept your own flaws.”
This book is rich in how the author weaves the story's multiple levels, the characters, the many subtle things that come up later that if you don't really pay attention to it, you would miss it.
This book has so much in it that you might miss if you read too fast or not paying attention to it.
There is the dark magic, lighter magic, oracles, the resurrected, creatures like no others, suspense, action, and told so well I felt I was there.
Thanks NetGalley for allowing me to read such an awesome book.
As many reviewers at Booklikes noted, this YA fantasy novel hit every trope that many of us readers are tired of reading.Main character is the best (insert name of thing) ever.There is purple prose galore.World-building is all over the place and more often than not, author contradicts themselves regarding the rules they have put in place.There is a love triangle (STOP IT!)People (usually women) are jealous of main character for reasons unknown.
That don't make sense to you as a reader, but at that point you just go with it since you want it to end.Development of characters seems to be an afterthought.Book ends on freaking cliffhanger so you know as a reader that the author/publisher is going to stretch this thing out to at least 3 books.
I went into this with high expectations after reading Chupeco's debut duology last year and maybe that is where I went a little wrong with this one.
I expected it to grab me from the get go and not only keep my attention with a faster paced plot but be completely hard to put down with a fast moving plot as the synopsis hinted at.
While I wouldn't say this wasn't a fascinating story or that it doesn't grab your attention (because it does do that), it still wasn't quite the fast paced read I was hoping it would be.
I totally forgot I requested this book ahahahhahha.I was expecting a flat out HELL NO but I received the ARC. Whaaaaaa??I don't even know how I'm receiving ARC's when I don't even own a blog. Not complaining so, bring them books to mama.
There wasn’t a lot of plot in this one, but there was some gorgeous world-building and very complex characters--and that crazy, crazy ending will definitely lead to intense action and evil scheming in book two! IN DETAIL Rin Chupeco is the author to go to if you're looking for very descriptive writing. Usually this would get an A+from me, but this time around, it pretty much just turned my brain into mush--not the good kind of mush, either. It's the kind of mushy state you're in when you're in t
There wasn’t a lot of plot in this one, but there was some gorgeous world-building and very complex characters--and that crazy, crazy ending will definitely lead to intense action and evil scheming in book two!
It's the kind of mushy state you're in when you're in the middle of a boring lecture or company meeting, and you start to realize that you're just about ready to fall asleep.All of the writing didn't give the plot enough time to shine.
BUT this book has some intense world-building...
If you're a fan of luscious writing, in-depth world-building, and intense characters, I say go for it!
