https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/710722.The_Adventures_of_Solar_Pons
Just the one story from this: The adventure of the Callous Colonel - excellent stuff, and will read more from these sheerluck pastiches.High 3*ETA - AUGUST Derleth also fits my personal seasonal challenge rather well*two thumbs up*
I'm not sure how the writer of tepid Lovecraft pastiches can be the same person who also created these excellent Holmes-inspired mysteries, but this is exactly the case.
I could not have been more surprised.
I enjoyed these stories so much that I actually had a hard time putting down this book to go and do other things such as sleep, work, etc.Derleth himself said, "Solar Pons is Sherlock Holmes," and the resemblance is obvious.
We even see a version of Moriarity (Baron Kroll).The mysteries themselves are inventive and definitely NOT paint-by-number Holmes.
I was taken by surprise by the conclusion of almost all of them.
Highly recommended for lovers of mysteries, and especially for all Holmes fans.
First published in a this volume in 1945, the Adventures of Solar Pons is a collection of 12 short stories originally published in pulp fiction form from around 1929 onwards.
The stories are a connected series, inspired by Sherlock Holmes and with enough similarities to cause some legal issues.
One story, 'The Adventure of the Late Mr. Faversham', bears an uncanny resemblance to the 1990 Sherlock Holmes pastiche 'The case of the Vanishing Head-Waiter' by June Thomson - ironic perhaps?
All in all, not brilliant unless, like me, you are really keen on pulp fiction from the 1920/30s.
Sherlockian talesIf you're a sucker for pastiches, this is for you. It's apparent that Derleth wrote these stories for fun. There are some typos but they won't ruin the reading pleasure. The printing of these stories are put there as sort of historical documents when researching August Derleth. He's not a bad writer contrary to written opinions on that matter.
I'd give it 6/5 stars if at all possible!! Gotta love some "underground" Sherlock stories!!
Good Holmes inspired short stories. I’ve read that his later stories get better. I will certainly try some more.
August Derleth was a voracious reader of the original Sherlock Holmes adventures, even writing to Sir Arthur Conan Doyle, asking him if he was going to do any more. Unhappy with the response (or lack of one) he decided to create his own. This is the first of several books of short stories featuring his Sherlockian-knock-off detective Solar Pons. Quite good.
read some time in 1984
Not really ACD. Not really Sherlock. But really close without being offensive. Yes really good.
Not good, but surprisingly unterrible.
