https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/341824.The_Sargasso_Ogre
When one of Doc’s aides is threatened, Doc and his crew embark on a ship-board adventure against one of his greatest physical adversaries and in a truly remarkable setting: the Sargasso Sea, a living breathing mythic site all its own where all the flotsam and jetsam and derelict ships of the ocean have converged into a floating muck that has become a home to a sort of lost civilization.
These early stories are also somewhat linked together with this one actually mentioning that Doc and the boys having just completed an adventure in The Lost Oasis.While the Bantam paperback editions list this as #18, the original order would place it as #8.
The eighth Doc Savage tale (or #18 in Bantam's wacky reprint order) was originally published in October 1933, and it's a corker.Following directly on the events of The Lost Oasis, Doc and his gang find themselves swept up in a high-seas mystery while returning home from Egypt.
The setting and supporting characters are just weird enough to seem both utterly exotic and strangely plausible, and the occasional purple excesses of Lester Dent's writing style are largely kept in check.
Yep, this is a good one.
Returning from their last adventure, upon leaving Egypt Doc Savage and his companions have their ocean liner hijacked by modern day pirates and taken to the Sargasso Sea. Doc Savage finds himself working to protect both the passengers of his ocean liner and a shipful of beautiful castaways while dealing with well-entrenched enemies led by the titular "Sargasso Ogre."This was one of the better entries in the Doc Savage series so far.
Their leader instantly falls for "woman-proof" Savage, of course, but she and her crew prove to be brave and resourceful.Bruze, the "Sargasso Ogre," is one of the more interesting opponents portrayed in the series so far.
Another adventure in the lives of Doc & his men. They take a ship homeward and the ship is taken by a gang of men who are never called pirates. Doc meets a beautiful woman, whom he really doesn't notice because he never notices women as anything other than people. As with many of the Doc Savage stories it ends as if the next chapter is missing.
The Sargasso Ogre was Lester Dent's all-time favourite Doc Savage story he wrote. To me, that really set up a big expectation, especially since the 8 or so before it weren't all that good. This one is better than alot of its predecessors. ...Doc's still a terrible ass, though.
Pulpy goodness.
Another good Doc adventure that I read back in the 70s.
The first Doc Savage story appeared in 1933 and the series ran in pulp and later digest format into 1949.
The characterizations were far richer than was common for the pulps; his five associates and their sometimes-auxiliary, Doc's cousin Pat, and the pets Chemistry and Habeas Corpus, all had very distinctive characteristics and their byplay was frequently more entertaining that the current adventure-of-the-month.
The settings were also fascinating: Doc's Fortress of Solitude, the Hidalgo Trading Company (which served as a front for his armada of vehicles), and especially the mysterious 86th floor headquarters all became familiar haunts to the reader, and the far-flung adventures took the intrepid band to exotic and richly-described locations all over the world.
The Doc Savage books have always been my favorite entertainments...
Their departure is nearly hampered by an attempt on Long Tom’s life, but Doc saves the day and he and his five friends board the “Cameronic” in plenty of time.
It’s up to Doc and his gang to keep the villain known as the Sargasso Ogre from retaking the “Cameronic” and finding a way back to civilization.This book bore all the trademark excitement and humor I have come to expect from Doc Savage, from the many combat and chase scenes to interesting villains and side characters.
Though the tide of public opinion seems to be turning Doc into a bit much of a goody two-shoes, it was still exciting stuff.
The exotic travel means for this Doc Savage adventure is a cross-Atlantic cruiseship and the thrilling local is the Sargasso sea.
The story starts off with a bang as a murder attempt is made on Long Tom in the Catacombs beneath Alexandria.
Doc battles a crew of cutthroats seeking to maroon the ocean liner and the very elements themselves in the form of the Sargasso sea.
Like the adventure before it, there seems to be no way out--no conveyance that could get the team back to civilization.
I have never read a Doc Savage Adventure before but now I'm hooked.
I like this book enough that I mentally cast people I would like to see in a film.
I'm thinking Idris Elba as Doc Savage.
Doc and his gang were on the way to New York City with millions of dollars in diamonds on a ocean liner.
It is hijacked and the ocean liner is trapped in the Sargasso Sea by cruel brute the Sargasso Ogre!
He wants Doc DEAD!
It was a very exciting book.
Think Golden age of comics type hero...Captain America, Superman.
My memory of it when I was younger was of a dark and brooding tale set for the most part in near darkness as Doc battles the evil Sargasso Ogre, a man named Bruze who is almost Doc's match physically .
The story runs back and forth through the Sargasso Sea, with one of the most important elements being Doc's desire not to immediately defeat the villain because the villain is the only one who knows how to escape the Sargasso!
This was a pre-Bermuda Triangle era, so the Sargasso was the mysterious place where ships went in and never came out.
A well-crafted story, this one.
Of all the pulp era heroes few stand out above the crowd, Doc Savage is one of these. With his 5 aides and cousin he adventures across the world. Fighting weird menaces, master criminals and evil scientists Doc and the Fab 5 never let you down for a great read. These stories have all you need; fast paced action, weird mystery, and some humor as the aides spat with each other. My highest recommendation.
One of the best adventures of the Supreme Adventurer! "The Sargasso Ogre" features a good and haunting setting, good action, a good villain (it's very rare for a villain to tackle Doc as equal, and this one does!), a good cast of side characters.It's certainly one of the finest on the long list of Man of Bronze adventures!
A very cool setting can't save this sadly boring Doc Savage adventure.The villain is bland and the plot mostly involves a lot of running around. Couple good action scenes, but otherwise a rare letdown from an usually brilliant series.
As a kid this was one of my favorite Doc Savage books. I loved the setting and I loved the cover art. I found the Idea of a graveyard for ships very compelling. It's extreamly dated but that makes it all the more fun to read.
The very first Doc Savage book I read. My grandmother gave to to me and I remember laying on her couch and devouring it. Re-read on the trip home from her place (I was about 8yrs old at the time and it was a 9hr car trip). Hooked from that point on
Good entry in Doc Savage series.
It's been ages since I read a Doc Savage book. Very clever and not dated at all. The end seemed to take forever but it was a good read. I'll read some more.
read SOMETIME in 2011
This story was somewhat different from the other Docs that I've read. Not one of the best ones.
