https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/474934.Shadrach
This is a sweet story of a little boy getting and loving a pet rabbit.
It's told with Meindert DeJong's amazing ability to understand the concerns and motivations of the very young.
Even though very little happens, my children were riveted by the story, even my 9-yr-old son that usually gets bored when a book is all talk and no action.
For example, DeJong conveys the agony of waiting a whole week for something good so convincingly that my children were in agony to hear what happens next.
Read on openlibrary.org for the Newbery club. I can see why some ppl might not like this, esp. because the bunny is not a character and because the 'voice' is that of a certain little boy who loves his family, and music, and language, is loved by his family, is brave & naughty & good & innocent & wise... iow, a character not many can identify with. I may not have liked it when I was a child. But now I do admire and enjoy it very much.
Meindert DeJong has a unique way of letting us see the innate goodness and charm in the main characters of his books that serves to drive entire stories through their personal sweetness, and Davie is an absolutely perfect example of that.
For that, few authors can match the achievements of Meindert DeJong, and few works are as memorable or as sweet as the story of a boy and his heart-achingly anticipated little black rabbit, Shadrach.
a beautiful story of a little boy's love/obsession with his pet rabbit. what is beautiful about this book, and many of deJong's books, is that he is so good at capturing the mind of kids. what they see as important in the world, how sensitive they are to how adults react to them. it's almost painful to read and reflect and remember what it was like to be a kid once. any of deJong's books i highly recommend. this one was both cute and wonderful.
Oh thank God I finally got through this book.
Talk about repetitive!
How many times can you write the same sentence in a row in different ways?
This book is a pro at that.
However, I had to make sure I read it to my sons because one of them adores rabbits so much.
Davie has been sick and his grandfather has promised to get him a black rabbit.
He's been dreaming up life with the rabbit so much including his name and feeding it.
This little boy gets into mischief with his cares and feelings for the rabbit.
This book, like many of the early Newbery books, is fairly short and has an old-fashioned feel to it.
The story is about a little boy named Davie who is going to get a black rabbit, which he names Shadrach.
The story goes into Davie’s escapades before and after he gets his rabbit.
To be honest, I felt like I was too old to be reading this book.
Davie reminded me of the small children I used to take care of in the nursery, and how frustrating it is to have a child in your care disobey you, run off, and generally get into trouble.*Read more on my blog: http://newberyandbeyond.com/newbery-r...
I vividly remember my mom reading this book aloud to my brother and I when we were in elementary school, and I remember all three of us being bored out of our minds (in fact I think we lost my brother about halfway through).
My mom and I were barely able to finish it.
For a long time after, if a book was very dull, we would say, “Wow, this book is almost as boring as Shadrach!
Read this book if you would like, but do not be surprised if you are unable to finish it.
How delightful to spend time with a loving family. Great for any child who's wanted a pet of any sort. Loved the sibling rivalry - boys will especially appreciate the male attitude on a variety of subjects. Moms - be grateful we live in an age with antibiotics and vaccines. Who knows what illness he had, and survived! Great to actually have a father - and a mother!! - in a story plus grandparents. If you're a Sendak fan, please don't be disappointed that he's still in his Marie Hall Ets phase.
How delightful to spend time with a loving family.
Great for any child who's wanted a pet of any sort.
Loved the sibling rivalry - boys will especially appreciate the male attitude on a variety of subjects.
Moms - be grateful we live in an age with antibiotics and vaccines.
Who knows what illness he had, and survived!
Great to actually have a father - and a mother!!
- in a story plus grandparents.
In my opinion itt's much better suited to DeJong, and this gentle little story than his later work with Ruth Krauss or his own writing.
Cute youth book. Not exactly what I was expecting. It takes awhile to get into the book but the ending is very sweet.
This book with the bunny was much better than the depressing book about the dog I read by this same author before I read this one. This one was delightful! It was full of very real, child anticipation, care, concern, admiration, all the feelings that kids have over their pets and their family, it was great.
A simple story about a boy and his rabbit. I love the picture we get of his family and their love for him, taking time to help and listen. He struggles with problems and has to work them out, and sometimes the rabbit causes him a lot of stress.It's easy to discount the concerns and excitement of children as small, but this shows how big those things can feel.
I had a hard time getting into this book. I felt like it was slow and too detail-oriented and not enough action. That being said, my kids (ages 9, 7, and 5) seemed to enjoy it. They didn't mind how slow it was moving and were excited that the ending provided closure.
I really liked this book. I also love her "Wheel on the School" and this was similar, but in a very different way. So much becoming - for everyone.
When he had finished the first row he had run all the way back just to see all the little white pigs marching across the land.
Up they come.”That was how this little inside song had just suddenly started, because he was having such fun stooping along the row of empty holes with his bag of big white beans, setting the beans and singing his song.
Up they come.” The inside song had no tune, not a tune like a hymn in church.
He couldn’t explain it to Mother, but it was with the story just like with a hymn.
DeJong does a beautiful job of telling the story from young Davie's perspective, focusing on the things Davie cares about, and letting all the rest go.
While Shadrach's life in the hutch doesn't look good from an adult perspective, the story does do a good job of showing that having a pet involves more than petting and play - it's about responsibility and knowledge.The illustrations, by Maurice Sendak, are perfect.
Meindert DeYoung is excellent reading for read aloud to children or the 8-13 age range.
Fine for adults, too!A Dutch Reformed author from 50 years ago, his worldview is Gospel centered, and leans away from the "too strict" camp.In Shadrach, a father promises his little boy a pet rabbit.
It is a well done look at how expectations can be shattered, diminished or adjusted by others or by events.DeYoung really captures the way children think well, and guides them (and their parents!) in a good direction as far as handling disappointment, honoring and keeping promises, avoiding deception and the idolatry of overly desiring something.The part about father and son missing church ("let the preacher preach") was delightful.
A lot of people seem to think that the author understands how children think, but I would like to disagree.
Maybe in some respects the author got it right, but I feel that they don't relate to children as much as other reviewers think they do.
For example I don't think children consciously decide what they are going to sing about in their head days in advance.
Some of the stories in it were cute though.Also, I don't know what the whole just getting over being sick has to do with anything.
The author seemed to make this huge deal of it though it had absolutely nothing to do with the story.
Davie is just a little boy and he has been promised a pet rabbit by his Grandpa. But, he has to wait a whole week before the little black rabbit who will be named Shadrach will come home. The first half of the book was Davie's obsession and anticipation during the week before Shadrach came home. The rest of the book included trials and tribulations as poor Shadrach seemed to be getting skinnier and he managed to escape a couple of times. This was cute. It being a children's chapter book, there were some nice little illustrations by Maurice Sendak.
It is odd which books stick in your brain.
This was the first book I disliked.
In fact, for many years it was the  only book I disliked.
I thought the bunny was stupid.
I found the characters weak.
If I had known what the word insipid meant, I probably would have used it.
But it has been so long, I wonder if the book is as bad as my childish memory painted it.
I'd forgotten about this book...and yet now that I'm thinking about it, I remember quite vividly my dislike.
The first time I'd ever disliked a book.
I read this because my book club decided to read Newbery Medal winners from the years of our birth.
This was an Honor book in 1954, so I decided to read it, too, because I didn't really like the Medal Winner, And Now Miguel.
It's a rather bland story told from a young boy's point of view.
In that respect, DeJong did a good job getting inside his head.
Maybe that's why it seemed so uninteresting to me--a 6-year-old's thoughts aren't very profound.
So, a child might like this book, but as an adult, I found it insipid, as another reviewer said.
This 1954 Newbery Honor book was illustrated by Maurice Sendak. It is a simple story of a little boy and a black bunny. Davie longed for a pet. When he received his black bunny he felt it was a miracle. Shortly thereafter Shadrach the bunny escapted, leaving Davie feel responsible and terribly sad.While the illustrations are wonderful and those of us who felt the joy of obtaining a pet and the sadness of losing the pet, I cannot recommend this one.It is trite and fluffy.
I picked this up in a second grade classroom based solely on the fact that it was the thickest book in the collection. I read 30 pages in just a few minutes and was charmed by the writing and story. I picked a copy up from the library to read the rest. I really liked this book. The family relationships shine and loving those you have, despite imperfections, is a lovely theme.
There is definitely some charming writing in this book, but when it was finished, I felt like nothing had occurred. I can't really say more without giving away the plot, but we weren't as fond of it as we were of DeJong's The Wheel on the School. A clever look inside a young boy's mind, although I was a bit disturbed by his recurrent lack of honesty.
Not a lot of plot, but the telling of the story is almost pure poetry, with a narrative that pulls you along, and a lyricism to the descriptions that not only paint a picture, but also paint the emotions of the scene. This has quickly become one of my favorite authors. Wonderful story of a boy and his pet rabbit.
It's good! A cute book, with just the right amount of conflict for a young audience. A likeable main character. Well rounded other characters. Humorous. Good sense of setting. A good read for children, and for adults who like children.
It's been years upon years since I read this little charmer -- all I remember is the chant the boy's father said as he gently swung him once, twice, and three times into bed: "Shadrack, Meshack, to-BED-we-go!"
Boy and bunny and family. I didn't find this charming. I felt badly for the overly stressed out young boy.
The story may be able to keep the attention of a 5 year old. I see the value in the book I just won't read it again.
Read this out loud with the kids (age 5 and 7). I will read more by this author.
This is not one of my favorites. Some people may think differently so you might still want to read it. But I do not recommend it.
