https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/133547.Everyone_Poops
This book has turned my life completely around.I used to have a very negative attitude towards those who told me that everyone poops.
However, if the book made sense to me and I ended up believing it, i would have to apologize to all my friends and promise to spread the good word to everyone I could.This friend saved my life.Do not make the mistake of thinking that this book is just some crazy quack's way of making money on a delusional cure.
I must insist that you purchase this book, and go spread the word to the unenlightened!Poop is for everyone, not a secret meant to be hoarded!
The realization that everyone does indeed POOP, may not be so comforting after all . . .Up and Out by Jeremy Kaye
Then it throws in how kids (and adults) poop on the potty, and babies poop in their diapers.
Honestly, it didn't bother me at all, but let's face it, I've spent quite a bit of my time lately rinsing turds out of Dora the Explorer panties, so not much is going to faze me at this point.I'd recommend this to anyone (like me) who is at the end of their rope, and willing to try anything to get that special little person in their life to grunt one out on the @$*#ing toilet.We've read it twice today already.
- Special thanks to Jill, who sent me the book.
Amusing book. Part of being an animal is we all poop and this book has fun showing this part of life. My brother got this and had me read it before he had kids. That's his humor.
This Post-modern work tackles the taboo subjects of poop, and those who do the pooping. I won't spoil the ending for you but lets just say that there are enough plot twists to keep you guessing. Clearly inspired by contemporary feminist theory with a hint of neo-marxist thought
A thriller, non-stop action, definately one of Gomi's best pieces.
If it's meant to be funny, it kinda failed, because I don't think that toddlers will appreciate "poop" as a funny word yet.
It's not informative as a potty-training book because it has no information about potty-training at all, other than showing both an anatomically correct little boy pooping in a diaper and another little boy pooping on a toilet.
It's not informative as a guide to bodily-functions, because the book doesn't explain how food becomes poop.
Maybe something like, "Food goes in your mouth, and then your belly squishes it up and gets all the energy out of food, which makes you run around and drive Mommy crazy all day, and then later your butt shoots it out on Daddy.
It’s been a long time since I’ve spent any length of time around poopy children but I remember babysitting several of the young buggers in my youth and feel confident that had this book been in existence at the time, it would have been appreciated as a source of reading material and also as an ongoing topic of conversation (there was one family in particular who had 3 toddlers and we talked about poopy butts all the time).
I hope to have children in the future and would definitely consider adding this book to the potty training library when the right time comes along.
Didn't answer pressing question about what whale poop looks like. Two stars.(I have no idea why this was on my list of books to read. Maybe someone put this on here as a practical joke. Jokes on you, trickster person. I have read it and now I know about different poop, which is clearly superior knowledge that you do not possess and with it I shall take over the world. Good day.)
Just might be the most important book of our generation. I laughed, I cried it made me want to poo.
I did not realise this book has been around for so long. Indy asked me to get it for him, they must have been reading it at pre school. I also didn't realise it's a translation. I love how these concepts are so fascinating to children. When yep, quite simply, everyone 'poops', as Indy says!
I wasn't convinced.
My best friends daughter refused to go poop in the potty...
She said, "But Aunt Lisa, the animals are pooping outside, why cant I?" So I told her that yes, animals poop outside, but animals also lick their butts clean instead of using toilet paper and they get worms in their bellies.....
not the best thing to say to her, but, she did poop on the potty last night and again today, so, I guess it was worth giving her nightmares...lol..
my best friend just laughed and made me bring home a "Worm didecting kit" from the hospital to make sure she didnt have worms...lol..I love kids
Very cute little book ... great to give to people who have an issue pooping in public bathrooms.:)
Finally, a book about poop thats not total shit.
My kids & I read this about ten years ago. We all thought it was great fun. Our favorite line:A one humped camel makes a one humped poop. A two humped camel makes a two humped poop!
This book is responsible for asking the most haunting unanswered question I have ever confronted:What does whale poop look like?
Here kids are introduced to some basic science ideas -- all animals need to eat, and there's a connection between eating and 'pooping.' Older kids (ages 5-8) can be encouraged to think a little beyond the obvious.
E.g., What does whale poop look like?
He kept asking appropriate questions about the various animals and about the digestive system.
He very seriously told his mom that he "liked this book a lot."When I bought the book, an older (c70 yrs) lady happened to see it and was appalled that such a book existed and that I actually was going to read it to impressionable children.
This book has fabulous illustrations and doesn't shy away from its subject. It asks the question, "What does whale poop look like?"Oddly, when I searched for it by title, this is the other book that came up: God Wants You to Be Rich: How and Why Everyone Can Enjoy Material and Spiritual Wealth in Our Abundant World, by Paul Pilzer.Ponder the connections between these two volumes, dear reader.
True story.
Some real life lessons.
This book taught me a LOT about life and helped me get through some difficult times.
I don't have much to say about it.
i poop you oop we all poop its weird。im ⟫⟫⟫——————⟫
para aquellos bienpensantes de siempre que quieren borrar al cuerpo, hacerlo una máquina perfecta e invisible, superior al resto de la naturaleza.Estas dos citas (un cuento y un poema) creo que son compañeros honrosos:Debido a su excesiva curiosidad, una anciana cayó de su ventana y se estrelló contra el suelo.
Otra anciana se acercó a su ventana y miró a la que se había estrellado, pero debido a su excesiva curiosidad también se cayó y quedó estampada sobre el suelo.
Fue entonces que una tercera anciana cayó de su ventana; y luego una cuarta; y después, una quinta.
My teacher thought it was the cutest darn thing she'd ever seen in her entire life and told all of her students that we could write a sort-of short book report on "Everybody Poops" for extra credit to make up for the less-than-stellar average the class got on the last test - strangly enough a test on the digestive tract.
I'm glad I came across this book on Goodreads, because, for awhile there, no one believed me when I told them this book existed...
which lead to ME thinking that maybe this book didn't exist and I'd somehow dreamed the whole thing up....

OMG, I'm sure my Mamma read me this boo when I was potty training, but I don't remember, what I do remember is being six. or seven years old and her reading it to my little sister. I thought it was hilarious!
Logan got this book for Christmas from his Aunt Lacey. After reading this book, I'm pretty sure there are some people who are either in denial or they have been fibbing. Can't wait till they publish the book everyone toots.
A humorous and informative book for all ages! Makes a great, quick read while taking a poop, as well...
