https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/600349.Dangerous_Visions
Catching up for lost time became a real priority in my thirties.The Golden Age science fiction stories of the thirties, forties and fifties were a little less focused on stylistic prose or quality writing, and a little too culturally and scientifically removed from my era to interest me.
When assembling the anthology, Ellison had each author write a story that they thought explored a dangerous vision or concept.
This could've been executed a lot better, but I liked the concept.If All Men Were Brothers, Would You Let One Marry Your Sister?, Theodore Sturgeon: 5/5So far, the only story that I would actually consider a 'Dangerous Vision'.
Riders of the Purple Wage by Philip Jose Farmer (2.0 stars): This is the story I mentioned above that is the only one that I really didn’t like and I am more then willing to believe that it is because it just went over my head.
Dick (5.0 stars): Set in a dystopian future where Chinese style communism has taken over the world, this classic story is one in which Philip Dick pulls no punches in a scathing full frontal assault on faith, religion and God. Very disturbing, but among the best PKD pieces I have ever read.
I so wish I could share a write-up on every single story within this collection but since I'm writing a book review not a book, I'll contain myself and offer a few words on three of my favorites: THE DAY AFTER THE DAY THE MARTIANS CAME by Frederik PohlMr. Mandala runs his Florida motel near Cape Kennedy and must deal with all those damn reporters and newshounds crowding his motel lobby prior to racing off to catch the latest scoop on the Martians brought back by American astronauts.
by Larry EisenbergAs Harlan Ellison said, Larry Eisenberg should be put away for submitting such a story to him for inclusion in a collection of science fiction.
just in the last year or so, i have been getting back into it, and really enjoying it for the most part, reading both classic sf from long ago, and finding out that there are some really great new sf authors that i was completely unfamiliar with.so then i decided i would go back to the book that started it all for me and re-read Dangerous Visions.keep in mind that this book is regarded by many (including me) as the finest sf anthology ever published.
Why ever did he get involved with this backwoods hick when his lovely Nikki was there at home patiently waiting for him?
Well, those classical Greeks were like that, don't you know?I thought of this story several times this week while reading Marguerite Yourcenar's Mémoires d'Hadrien, a meticulously accurate reconstruction of the Emperor Hadrian's life which came out sixteen years before Dangerous Visions was published.
She somehow pulls off the amazing feat of presenting his feelings for beautiful young boys in his own terms, without in any way judging him by twentieth century standards.
The all time "most controversial" science fiction collection from ye olde Summer of Love 1967 - will this stand the test of time? It doesn't help that Harlan Ellison is wizard in this particular Oz, I can't really stand him, he's like a yappy guy in a bar claiming to have done ten frankly impossible things and daring you to call him a liar.
Here's what it said about the book: Anthologies, no matter how excellent, have seldom had enough impact to be "classics." But the first Dangerous Visions, edited by Ellison, was not only a wonderful sampling of the writers working in the exciting late '60s, it revolutionized science fiction in the matter of attacking more controversial subject matter.
It further claimed the book "revived the moribund science fiction short story as a form" by publishing "stories considered unpublishable by the American magazines." In his introduction, Harlan Ellison, said his purpose was to publish "taboo" stories, "all new stories, controversial, too fierce for magazines to buy...
(Adjusted rating down, Sep 28, 2018)Typical 70s drivel: pro-drug, pro-sex, pro-anarchy, anti-establishment, anti-Christian, anti-military. Not science fiction so much as speculative fiction. It all seemed so new and relevant then; now it seems like cold spit.If you do read it, skip the introductions to each story. It's mostly Ellison sucking up to his buddies. DO READ the authors' afterwords. Several of them are insightful.
(Where they differ, of course, is over whether or not this was a good thing.) One can't, IMO, really understand this book without understanding that movement; and like most movements, it can't be fully understood except in relation to its historical and cultural context.Early modern SF in the U.S., like the other speculative fiction genres at the time that the publishing industry first saw them as "genres," was shunted off into a literary ghetto in the pulp magazines, where it developed a small and insular fandom.
The New Wave movement, then, is probably best understood as basically the attempt of a second generation of SF writers (who came of age in the postwar period) to adapt the genre conventions to meet these kinds of critical expectations.
Larry Niven is afraid that if organ transplants become common practice, people will be given the death penalty for minor, petty crimes in order to augment resources.
Sturgeon's story takes thirty pages to get to the point, where it suddenly turns into a biology lecture.
There's a story written from the point-of-view of a toddler that should be read in Stewie Griffin's voice for full effect.
Robert Silverberg has aliens experimenting on a rescued spaceman in order to learn about humanity, but getting it horribly wrong (the aliens, not the author.) Robert Bloch transports Jack the Ripper into a decadent future where he's meant to serve as the plaything for a sadistic young woman.
Harlan Ellison is one of the best SF short story writers around. He's also a very good editor & seems to know everyone in the field. Here he's collected the best of the best. He introduces every story quickly, concisely & often humorously. He's also included an afterword for each story by the author. I don't know that I've ever seen that before. It really works & between them, I got a lot more out of each story.
While there are amazing stories within (Philip Jose Farmer's was my favourite- makes me want to say something corny about Joyce and acid.
Then something meta-cutesy about Joyce being Joyce on acid), the real joy is found in the intros and outros.
Especially the outros, because a lot of these stories are pretty incomprehensible, and it's cool at the end to have the author say 'I was thinking about ABC so I had to write this story' and you're like 'Ohhhh...
Lol I know words, though, honest.
I have the best words.]
More like Desperate Visions From the Editor's Buddies, But Mostly Deluded Vainglory from the Editor Himself, Though a Few Stories are Pretty Good, Especially Toward the End. And Three Women.Reading Chris Priest's account of the never-to-be-seen Last Dangerous Visions is most satisfying after slogging through Ellison's introductory spew.
“Dangerous visions” is thus more than just a snappy title—it states the purpose of the collection, and Ellison alludes to it in his story introductions to explain the inclusion of the works chosen.I am not well enough schooled in science-fiction to judge whether Ellison effected his revolution (he surely believes he did), but the volume as a whole strikes me as an impressive anthology.
Delany), the first short story this author wrote and representative of the imagination in his novels, it’s mostly a conversation between a neutered astronaut and a member of a group of sexual iconoclasts who idolize the “spacers” and pay them for romantic trysts.“The Prowler in the City at the Edge of the World” (Harlan Ellison).
This book changed the entire direction of science fiction. As you probably know, Ellison wrote to all of his favorite authors, asking them to submit a short story or novella that previously they had not been able to publish (for various reasons . . political as well as erotic) He edited this book and "Again, Dangerous Visions" . The entire speculative fiction genre changed utterly. This is one important and magnificent book.
3.5 out 5This is a great anthology, there are some really amazing stories in here. but sadly, most of them haven't aged well at all. Some of the stories are very experimental, that makes them kind of difficult to read sometimes, at least for me. I got lost several times. Highlights: -Evensong-The Man Who Went to the Moon — Twice-Lord Randy, My Son-Faith of Our Fathers-Land of the Great Horses-Judas
Definitely required reading for those seeking to understand or at least sample the zeitgeist of the late 60's New Wave SF movement. Reading this as a teen in the 80's was a bit unfortunate. Wish I could have read it at the height of its time, when these stories really were Dangerous Visions.
The eventual list of 33 stories from 32 authors reads like a Who’s Who of SF writers: Philip K Dick, Samuel ‘Chip’ Delany, Robert Bloch, Philip José Farmer, Robert Silverberg, Brian Aldiss, Theodore Sturgeon, JG Ballard, John Brunner, Norman Spinrad, Fritz Lieber, Frederik Pohl, Lester del Rey, Roger Zelazny, and even Isaac Asimov, who amusingly explains in one of his Introductions why he’s not in the collection, other than for the Introduction.
(It actually put me off reading Farmer for a long time afterwards.) David R Bunch’s two tales (the only author to have two tales in the book) are still as confusing as ever.
Read this in anticipation of the new biography of Ellison coming soon, and I'm glad I did because now I don't have to buy an early limited edition of it.
There are only 3 women represented here - Ellison makes it clear in the wordy introduction he did the inviting.
I need to get this book out of my head: there are authors here I'd rather not have to give up.
I wonder if getting the invite from Ellison had something to do with raising the ante on cynicism and intolerance?

This book was decidedly one of hot and cold. there are stories in it that have remained with me over the entire thirty some years since I first read it. They run the gamut from self destructive anthropologists to strange visions of what we may breed ourselves into in some Science Fiction future. I will say that I like some and found some quite disturbing. of course some were just "there" and passed almost without notice. I don't remember the anthology as extremely outstanding and let it pass from my collection. Still there are some good stories in it.
Incompatibly dark or outdated for me.Yet two stories did grip my heart:- Joe L Hensley's "Lord Randy, My Son"- Theodore Sturgeon's "If All Men Were Brothers, Would You Let One Marry Your Sister?"Both made me look for anything written by their authors (and resume my love affair with Sturgeon :).Oh! And I adored Ellison's intros--the passion and the fury, wow! The trivia and the jokes too... :D
The other reason was that I had started writing short stories again and thought reading some classics would be a useful background in structure and form, especially the experimental ones from the New Wave time period.Dangerous Visions was quite celebrated at the time, awarded with a special Hugo for the whole anthology as well as some significant wins for stories therein.
Ellison's own "A Prowler in the City at the End of the World," a sequel to Bloch's story, however, takes that twist and makes so much more of the concept, creating a judgment on society and culture—what Ellison had wanted to basically achieve with the anthology in the first place.I love Theodore Sturgeon's stories, but on rereading, "If All Men are Brothers, Would You Let One Marry Your Sister?” I was disappointed.
It is a lengthy story, written in a juvenile style, about a man who realizes there is a “hidden” planet in the human universe of several thousand planets, and his attempts to find that planet over the obstacles put up by the authorities.
They instead are merely imaginings about a fairly powerful creature called, for some reason, God, who in each story is of course a toothless idiot to whom Man is far superior.) The third group is “Hey, let’s write some gruesome stories without a plot!” Most of these are just violence, though some throw in nihilism for good measure, naturally always without the understanding of human nature necessary to make nihilism compelling (e.g., as Lovecraft did).
I'll try to keep at writing a review a week if my reading goes as I expect and, maybe, I'll begin to see progress in the quality of my writing the further along I go.Starting my reviews with an anthology, and one so highly regarded as Dangerous Visions, might not be the best idea but I'll give it a go anyways.
Lately I've been more interested in reading earlier periods of sci-fi like the golden age and the new wave; figured I'd start with the new wave since the differing and experimental styles of writing used by many authors would hold my attention more easily.
Ellison's watershed anthology was strong stuff when first published in 1967, and it still packs a wallop.
Lots of amazing stories in here, and in the 1972 sequel, AGAIN, DANGEROUS VISIONS (which includes a couple of short novels).It is a great pity that we will probably never see the long-promised THE LAST DANGEROUS VISIONS.
As one of the few privileged to read Volume 1 of this massive assemblage, I can confidently say that if Ellison hadn't had writer's block on doing the introductions, this would have had a strong impact.
And swept a lot of awards for that year.
No kidding dangerous.
This isn't a collection of short-stories for the faint of heart.
It literally is dangerous stories.
These are stories that no one wanted to publish, whether because of their horrifying, graphic, or theological statements.
As such, it is remarkably fascinatiing.The stories are imaginative to a degree that I've not seen often.
The stories are evil.
These are stories you hate to love and do anyway.
They are naughty and terrible and well-written.
It is precisely because they are short that they are so good.
If these were novels people would be leaping off cliffs or going nuts.Read it.
This collection was quite an eye-opener at the time of publication in 1967 and impressed me two years later when I borrowed a copy from a friend soon after matriculating at Grinnell College. Other than the fact that Ellison was able to obtain original work from luminaries in the field, his emphatic instruction was that they were to submit without fear of censorship. In other words, he encouraged his writers to push the limits and, by the standards of the time, many of them did. I was particularly "shocked" by the inclusion of a very naughty piece by Kurt Vonnegut.
THE CLASSIC anthology of sf stories that stretch the boundaries of the genre. More experimental and thought-provoking than most of the SF that is published today.
Maybe this is because I am from a more irreverent generation, but (view spoiler)["God is a property developer" (hide spoiler)] is not nearly sufficient to get me interested in a story, and it seems like there's little more than that in this story.
(view spoiler)[I think the idea of the story is great - that the big reveal is that at the beginning of his life the idea of going to the moon is crazy because it's the fantastical imagination of a child, but by the end of his life it's crazy because it's become too boring and commonplace.
