https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/58940.The_ABC_Bunny
I think this particular Newbery Honor book falls solidly into the category if-only-there'd-been-the-Caldecott-before-1938.
It's a perfectly pleasant book, but I just can't agree that it works with the text alone.
Because it has the song printed at the front of my edition, I was able to read the text (plus some tra-la-la's) by itself before I read the text in the context of the pictures, and I must say that the "story" being told is significantly enhanced by the illustrations.
As a whole, the book is nice enough, but I don't think it would have even the ghost of a chance to win today.
She is a Newbery Honor winner and was an important author in the development of children's books.
The book follows the bunny along the alphabet road, with each letter in the alphabet having a word associated with it.
Each letter helps tell the story of the bunny's journey.
The words the author uses to tell the story are thought-provoking and will help young readers learn the alphabet and help them develop a rich vocabulary.
I highly recommend this book for all children learning their ABC's and learning how to read because this is an excellent educational book that is designed by artists to inspire learning in all aspects.
First sentence:A for Apple, big and redB for Bunny snug a-bedC for Crash!D for Dash!E for Elsewhere in a flashF for Frog--he's fat and funny"Looks like rain," says he to BunnyPremise/plot: Readers get to spend the day with Bunny.
The alphabet guides the adventures certainly.
There is some story added in.
My thoughts: I love, love, love the illustrations.
I really adore the porcupine, the squirrel, and the bunny, for example.
The text was okay for me.
I didn't love it, but, I didn't dislike it in any way either.
What I really loved about this ABC book is how each letter told another piece of a story, and wasn't just a letter standing for an object. That gave the story depth, and an actual plot which made this really enjoyable to read. I love the style of these old vintage children's picture books - they're quite different from what you see today. Overall, this was a joy to find, and I'm glad that my library had a copy (though I was quite surprised by the age of the copy I was allowed to check out!)
Probably my favorite of Gag's books simply because I actually liked the text for once! Moving through the alphabet, we follow the story, in rhyme (song, if you can read music!), of a bunny's adventures. The rhymes don't "fudge" and the story is cohesive--the illustrations, though B&W, are adorable and vibrant.
For the most part just basically looking at the cover it looks interesting but then you turn the page to find it is all in black-and-white, which was a true rotten deal for a young reader.
Fortunately the story makes up for it even though I still wanted some color to the telling.
And if you are lucky then you can probably get young readers to help you as turn the page and move the story along.
Although in black-and-white the pictures are nicely detailed and full of care as they help to move the story forward.
First, the illustrations by Wanda Gág are clearly a cut or two (or more) above what one would expect to see in such a basic book.
It's a lively song that seems to fit the words well, and in any case it's not the kind of addition that one is likely to find in another alphabet book!
The third main difference is the fact that The ABC Bunny reads for the most part like a standard story.
I like this approach, and the overall methods that Wanda Gág used in the creation of this book.
This is an alphabet book that follows the journey of Bunny.
Every page shows an illustration of Bunny doing or experiencing something new.
The letters that are the focus of each page are large and red, for example an "A for Apple, big and red".
Not only is the intended reader learning the alphabet, they are learning how words rhyme.
When the gale comes, the wind is evident by lines showing motion.
"W" is for "We welcome you!" and there is "X for eXit-off, away!" The last two letters of the alphabet , Y and Z, have nothing to do with Bunny.

This is the second of the author's books to be awarded the Newbery Honor and the second picture book. This one is a rather unique abcdiary that in addition to teaching the abcs (complete with piano sheet music and lyrics) tells the story of a bunny who is surprised by an apple's fall and travels from bunny land to elsewhere. I preferred it over the author's "Millions of Cats". I read this for my 2018 Reading Challenge and my Newbery Challenge.
This is really an alphabet picture book so I’m curious as to why the Newbery committee chose it. The art is simple and Black and White so I’m not sure how appealing it would be to today’s children. Finally the subject of each letter in this alphabet book is about rabbits so if rabbits interest you so will this book.
This book is a great resource for teaching young children phonemic awareness. This is a story about a bunny that gets lost and has to find his way home. This particular bunny travels to many different places and meets different people. Each destination has a new beginning with a different letter of the alphabet. This is a great book for teachers and young children!
The ABC Bunny by Wanda Tag is a great book for young readers. It takes the readers through the alphabet and gives examples of words for each letter! It has the bunny tell the story of the ABC's and helps readers learn the alphabet. -Lea Fabrizzi
Great ABC book for beginners!!
The book is telling a story only starting with the letters in the alphabet. I do not think the students will be learning much from this book.
I liked this book because it was a great tool to help children learn about the letters in the alphabet while still telling a story of a bunny.
This book was cute but wasn't my favorite.
1. No awards2.
2-5 years3.
The book tells a story going by the alphabet sequence; a bunny escapes from where she's used to live because of the falling apples.
The bunny keeps on a journey, meeting so many different animals.
Then, the bunny finds a bunny town and bunny friends.4.
I like how this book has nursery rhymes beside teaching the alphabets.
I didn't get to read this book as a child, but when I was renting this book from school library, a librarian realized and told me that it was his favorite book that his mother used to read to him in bed.
It's remarkable how books make an impact on children and it still lives with us as adults.5.
Every letter in the alphabet is used to represent things in the book, and each letter represents something on the Bunny's journey.The Author Wanda Gag did an awesome job at all the illustrations on the book as well as in the text.
The author uses illustrations in a very attractive way, that makes the reader as they turn the page look straight into the illustration even before the text.
the author uses fantasy as its artistic style on the text and some of the illustration just to hit in the point the rabbits cant do some of the things that the ABC Bunny does.
Wanda Ga’g was able to create a wonderful children’s story about the alphabet with her rhyming picture book The ABC Bunny.
This story follows a rabbit through the night as he meets many animals, foods and adventures which get him from A-Z.
The picture book fits into the genre of the alphabet.(a) The rhythmic pattern set throughout the story creates the pace for a great children’s book for learning the alphabet.(b) With a song attached to the front cover of the book, the text presented has great rhyming, time and pattern.
I have encountered numerous experiences with songs, rhymes and alphabet stories, and this is one I will soon put in my classroom for the students to enjoy.
The selection of animals the bunny encountered as well as the different vocabulary used will definitely intrigue readers of all ages.C.“N for Napping in a Nook, O for Owl with bookish look, P for prickly Porcupine, Pins and needles on his spine, Q for Quail, R for Rail, S for Squirrel Swishy-tail” (p 15-20).
The rhyming aspect of nook-look, porcupine-spine, quail-rail-tail make the book that more wonderful for young readers.4.Curriculum Connection- This is a great addition to any alphabet whole group discussion in preschool thru Kindergarten programs.
There are many activities and discussions that can pulled from this book such as rhyming and word families, animals, actions and even sequencing the bunny’s travels.
The main idea in the book is everytime he travels a new letter of the alphabet is introduced and used in a rhyme or riddle.
I believe this is an interesting way for students to learn about nature, their alphabet, as well as even music.
The illustrations don't have much color and I feel that not all students would be interested in reading or seeing a book like this one.
I don't recomment it in a classroom because it would be hard to focus on all the aspects of the book when trying to teach just one thing like the alphabet.
Students might be distracted by the music sheets and so on.
Alphabet books can get tedious but this one is not.
It comes with piano music (composed by Wanda's sister) so you can sing the entire book.
The rhyme and rhythm is constant because it's a song and after playing the song once on the piano (it's catchy), I was singing it in the back of my head as I read the book.
The alphabet is used to tell the story of a rabbit so instead of being isolated A for Apple, B for Banana, there is an actual plot.
It is a worthy children's picture book and one that music teachers should consider using in music class.
This book is very cute for children learning their ABC's. I would recommend this to a preschool or daycare center to have for children to look at. The pictures went along perfect with the words and it allowed the child to understand what each letter the picture started with.
On the way, he encounters many things.This book is interesting as Wanda Gag collaborated with her siblings to put this together.
The story, as with many Gag books, is rather strange.
This is why I feel like if the Caldecott had existed at the time this was published, it would have been in that category instead of the Newbery.
I just feel the illustrations are the best part of this book, the story is just okay.
I found a YouTube video someone made singing the song and playing the music and I feel it works much better this way.
The ABC Bunny.
Fesler-Lampert Minnesota Heritage (1934).This is a story about a bunny who has an unfortunate mishap with an Apple, and leaves the town he lives in and encounters many different places and new friends, each beginning with a different letter of the alphabet on his journey.This is a great introductory book for children learning the alphabet, so a reading level of 2-5 would be most appropriate for this picture book.
The cover of the book is very vibrant, however the pictures inside the book are black and white, and to me that made me lose some interest in the book, and I think young children may not completely enjoy that aspect of the book, but they will enjoy the silly story.
This Newbery Honor book is a beautifully rendered alphabet set to an original song (musical score included).
Singing books are great for holding very young children's attention, and this one also includes some unusual word choices and enjoyable animal pictures that will keep the attention of kids from 3-6.
It is an excellent choice when seeking to appeal to both ages, or as a supplement for alphabet memorization.
The song is lilting and repetitive, and a bit difficult to pick up at first, but with practice (or a better musical ear than mine) it quickly becomes easier to sing.
The ABC BunnyAuthor: Wanda GágReading level: Ages 5-8Gág, Wanda (2004) The ABC Bunny Minnesota: University of Minnesota PressThis book appears to be a typical ABC book, but unlike many others I have read and reviewed, this one incorporates a lot of rhyming and other language skills in its text.
This is more engaging than the typical "A is for Apples" approach.The illustrations are curiously in black and white.
Although the cover has a limited color pallet, I still expected the inner pages to have some form of color.
This was slightly disappointing, but the drawings were still cute.Overall, I think it's a good book.
The ABC Bunny book is not your typical A is for apple, B is for Bat, C is for Cat book.
This ABC bunny’s E is for elsewhere in a flash, and his F-Frog is fat an funny; and says to the bunny “looks like rain.” X is for eXit-off, away.
Well, I have never sang that ABC song.
It’s funny, there is a music sheet for the song, but of course I can’t read a bit of music.
I was wondering why the illustrations are so dark for a children’s book.
The cover is nice and cheerful, but open the book and it is doom and gloom.
This book, The ABC Bunny was an ABC book meant for young children. I was not as impressed with this book as other ABC books, mainly because the pictures were black and white. I did however love the story, all relating to this bunny, mostly depicted through the illustrations. I believe it would have had a better effect with some more colorful pictures but overall it was a good book. I also enjoyed the song, with the notes in the beginning, that would be a good way to add music to a language arts lesson!
