https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/13143.Pop_Goes_the_Weasel
Not the best Alex Cross book I have read but it was still totally readable and very entertaining. I like Alex Cross and his little family and I enjoyed the side story of his relationship with Christine. The main story of the Four Horsemen was, in true Patterson form, way over the top but still absolutely engrossing and page turning.I am steadily working my way through the Alex Cross series. I pick one up every time I feel like a good book which will entertain me without me having to think. So far I have not been let down:)
Not bad at all. Moved quickly and I enjoyed the four horsemen concept for the killers. Alex is a great character to read about and the personalism of this installment made for a more edge of your seat read. But I found it predictable so that’s why I went to three stars. It was still interesting though. My quick and simple overall: an interesting quick read you can read in one afternoon.

Pop Goes the Weasel is the 5th book featuring Alex Cross. This book is written a bit differently, in that, the reader knows who-did-it right away, Cross figures it out quickly; however, diplomatic immunity forces the plot more towards 'will he be made to pay for his crimes' rather than, 'will he be caught'. The abrupt twist at the end was a fabulous way to end the book.....also, it means that I can't wait to pick up the 6th.
"Pop Goes the Weasel" is a very easy book to read. I got it done in two days. The story line sometimes made me mad, due to the fact that the killer kept getting away with everything. The ending was happy though. I recommend this book to people who like to read mysteries because the one in this book is very intense.
I can't stand the character, Alex Cross, however I really enjoyed the story line and the villain of Pop Goes the Weasel.
Alex Cross is facing a new killer, one that is totally random in his killings.
The reader knows right away that the villain is British diplomat, Geoffrey Shafer, however the whole point is whether or not Alex Cross can figure out who the Weasel is.
I don't like Alex Cross.
I liked the villain, Geoffrey Shafer, he was so smug and evil.
I also enjoyed how this book was more than the hunting down of the killer (view spoiler)[you also got Geoffrey's trial (hide spoiler)]
I could not get past page 12 before I wanted to hurl this piece of drivel down a well then toss a rock after it to prevent it's accidental discovery.I didn't know it was possible to create such horrible sterotypes and to write with this level of immaturity.Maybe I should have read further, but after hearing the young black kid actually say, "Yo, yo, yo" I had to find better things to do with my time.
This was my first glimpse into the world of Alex Cross and once I finished this book I realized I've been missing out on some potentially excellent reads.
Most hardboiled mysteries are too dry for my tastes and my mind starts drifting away but this one hooked me from the beginning with its attention to characterization and the emotional affects of crime on the victims left behind.
Police Officer Alex Cross is a compelling and sympathetic character chasing down one of the evilest serial killers I've encountered in quite a while.
It had an exciting plot and was Interesting to some extent but being the forth book in a series, it fell flat for me.The Killer was interesting and some parts of the book held my attention but my constant checking of how many pages I have left made me question if I am really invested in the story... Then the easy ending was just meh and felt a little to convenient.I would suggest you read it as a series, instead of a stand alone. BLOG ---> https://kenyanlibrary.wordpress.com/ Thanks for reading :)
Another fast pace Alex cross book, omg wasn't expecting the ending I got on this one but nice to see some happy outcome for Alex.
Pop Goes the Weasel was so freaking good.
Which at first I didn't really care about their relationship but this book totally made me fall even more in love with his family and I didn't mind Christine being the new addition to.
The ending was so good and happy for his family.
But then that god damn epilogue was so freaking good.
Death is the new villain in this book.
Death's real name is Geoffrey Shafer.
Shafer is a crazy motherfucker who thinks it's a game every night when he goes out hunting to kill.
A new serial killer, Alex Cross, more mystery, thrilling turn of events?
Count me in!!This is the perfect example of a flowing story you can lose yourself in.
The plot is told by multiple POVs (Alex Cross', Geoffrey Shafer's, Bayer's, Patty Hampton's) but you never awake from the spell this book puts on you.
It's never disturbing, never out of place.There's something I appreciate about James Patterson's work: it's always interesting.
There's no need for me to read a third of the book or half of the book for me to get hooked or excited.
I'm hooked starting with the first sentence.
The characters (that’s nothing new), the plot (also nothing new), the plot twists (go figure), and the ending (SHOCKER, THAT).No really, this book was like fictional quicksand (as opposed to real quicksand that actually takes a really long time to swallow you up.) This book took a full two minutes, if that, to make me want to read the rest of it in one sitting.
It may be uncomfortable for other people to read, but I think it’s important for Patterson to put these things in the books, especially when Alex Cross lives in a place where it happens daily.BUT THE PLOT TWISTS.
Years ago, I gave up on Patterson after reading 1/5 of this book.
I suppose seeing the author's name on the new release shelf 365 days a year makes it difficult to ignore him, and I decided to give this book another try.
Seriously, I've read graphic novels and other comic books with more lifelike villains than Geoffrey Shaffer (AKA the Weasel).
Truth be told, it's not as unbearable when you sit down and read the books.
As I've told friends who do like this author, I might be more inclined to like him if I hadn't read gobs of similar books that were much more satisfying.
I'm embarrassed to give this book three stars.
But yet, I will grudgingly admit that I enjoyed POP GOES THE WEASEL, despite my opinion that Patterson wastes a lot of great opportunities here.
How lame is that?!) Ditto the murder trial angle.
Ditto the kidnapping angle.
Ditto "The Four Horsemen" angle.Ditto just about everything.But, still, it was a definite improvement over the last couple of Alex Cross novels (why, oh why, do I continue on with them?) The second half of the book, especially, did a fairly good job of retaining my interest.
So, I will give credit where credit is due and award Mr. Patterson a passing grade of three stars.
This is a great read...Patterson's usual excitment.
The only thing that annoys me about his Alex Cross books is the space he insists on using to talk about his family and love life.
The old Patterson books are all like this...the newer ones are simply junk...stuff he has put his name on but must be written by his co-authors, cause it's pretty bad in my eyes.
Anyhow, it was entertaining to read the "old" Patterson who was a MASTER at this genre.
I had read this one b-4, years ago, but since I can't remember what I had for breakfast anymore, it's no problem to re-read a book...it's just like new to me!
Reading a series pop pop pop helps me, forces me to stay objective, maybe. A pretty good story, but a step behind the others.
Well that was a weird ending. Another excellent Alex Cross addition to the series with a brilliant and sick psycho killer and Alex in distraught most of the book. It was great to see a support system come through to assist him on this one. I hope we get to see more of a resolution to events in this book.Overall this was another wonderful adventure but it felt less "wrapped up" in MANY ways with a lot of unanswered questions and a weird ending that was somewhat strange for sure. Looking forward to continuing the journey of Cross.
Honestly, James Patterson DOES what he's supposed to, and that's to craft a gripping, thrilling read and this story SOMEWHAT delivers.
It's less than superior to other Alex Cross novels.
I feel that (after reading a few Cross mysteries) most of these villains (The Wolf, The Mastermind, The Weasel, etc.) feel the same way.
I felt kind of cheated after completing the novel.
It was extremely rushed and I swung through it without a single jaw-dropping moment that I've experienced in other books by Patterson.
Overall, I felt this book was less than good with a few great parts but not enough to balance out the terrible parts.
I have loved all of the Alex Cross books and this one was iffy iffy for me, until about 3 quarters into the book... After that, you didn't want to put the book down. Still the last chapter, doesn't seem like the end of the story as of yet, so onto the next book!!!
What a fantastic, thrilling instalment in the Alex Cross series! I just couldn't put it down.
Τι γίνεται λοιπόν όταν ο Τζέφρι Σέιφερ, ο Θάνατος, με τη βοήθεια διεγερτικών και όχι μόνο χαπιών, σταδιακά χάνει τον έλεγχο και ο φόνος αρχίζει να γίνεται εξάρτηση; Πόσο κινδυνεύει το παιχνίδι να τιναχτεί στον αέρα; Μήπως όμως και οι άλλοι παίχτες έχουν δολοφονήσει; Και πώς θα εξελιχθούν τα πράγματα από δω και πέρα; Ο Τζέφρι Σέιφερ είναι ένας πραγματικά πολύ ενδιαφέρων χαρακτήρας και η πλοκή του βιβλίου είναι αρκετά ενδιαφέρουσα, παίζει διαρκώς με το μυαλό του αναγνώστη και φτιάχνει μια υπόθεση που δεν ξέρεις αν θα λειτουργήσει υπέρ ή κατά του όποιου ήρωα τον αφορά.
SHORT REVIEWThis book was not only a huge load of drivel, but Patterson thought writing about the most generic, cookie cutter, stereotypical characters would make his story worth reading.
It's worse than all these cheap, vampire romances I keep coming across.The dialogue in this book is, pardon the French, SHIT.
I've read cheap, horribly-printed paperbacks before that were great ('Rosemary's Baby' , At Risk', and 'Starship Troopers' are high up on my list).
I haven't read anything else by this author so this book almost wants to make me steer clear from him...but maybe I picked up one of his worst so I'm willing to try again.
James Patterson- Pop Goes the Weasel (Warner Books 2000) 3.75 StarsAlex Cross is finally engaged, and yes it is to Christine!
Cross is after British diplomat Geoffrey Shafer, a serial killer having fun while playing a deadly game of dice.
The two go back and forth moving and counter-moving, all in the effort to gain control of the situation.Once again I enjoyed Alex Cross.
I wasn’t as fond of the ending as it didn’t quite seem realistic, but up until that point I was enjoying the book immensely.I recommend Pop Goes the Weasel to Patterson/Alex Cross fans, and mystery/thriller enthusiasts.
I think this is quite an interesting story that questions the morality of diplomatic immunity.
The story kicks off with someone with diplomatic immunity ignoring red lights in his car and driving the wrong way up a freeway for a bit of a thrill and getting away with it.
It's interesting also that in most Patterson there are 2 criminal cases running in parallel but in this novel that isn't the case.
There is of course a happy ending and the British government isn't to happy at how they are abusing diplomatic immunity.
Despite this being the first James Patterson/Alex Cross book I've ever read, I feel like I still got all the pieces I needed to understand how this detective works, thinks and feels.
The reason that I didn't give it five stars is because there were times in which the writing felt...a little juvenile.
The only time I think I truly appreciated it, was during court room scenes because of my lack of deep understanding of them and what goes on.
I will likely pick up another Alex Cross book, but I need some time to recover first.
Detective Alex Cross investigates the murders of "Jane Does" which seem random to most investigators.
Geoffry Shafer is a serial killer who picks his victims by playing a role playing game called The Four Horsemen.
Anyone can be a player in the game without realizing it including his own family.As much as I do love the Alex Cross series so far, I am getting frustrated with how each serial killer that Cross faces has to involve his family in some way.
I am hoping in the next book, Patterson manages to keep the Cross family out of harms way.
This is the 5th book in the Alex Cross Series (for me, reading this series for the very first time) The only thing that I can say is that I did enjoy it- wasn't the worst - and by far not the best I've read.
I do know that if I had picked this book up, without reading the first 4- not sure how I would feel- If I would even continue on with the next book.
But, I did read the prior 4 and they were all excellent.
I will continue to read the series, in order for the series to me, still is quite enjoyable
One of the few series that gets better and better. I don't know why it took me so long to do this series from the beginning. I love Alex Cross...Patterson does not disappoint! And a huge thank you for...well, I don't want to spoil anything...I'll just reiterate that Patterson has never let me down.
I really think this is one of the best book of James Patterson I've ever read. The character of Geoffrey Shafer is rocking. Even Alex Cross was looking perfect in this book. It is one of those books where you'll sit all night to finish it asap just to know the climax. I wish James Patterson write book like this only from now on. One of the best I ever read. Recommended!!
