https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/16241184-uncle-dynamite
Recipe for a Wodehouse Novel1.
Insert the following, stirring gently: (a) Eccentric or curmudgeonly peer (b) devoted/ overbearing wife/ sister (c) a couple of sundered hearts and (optional) (d) domestic help with their own affairs of the heart.
Stir gently.
Bring to boil and set to simmer on low humour.3.
Insert key ingredient while the mixture simmers: Bertie and Jeeves, Galahad Threepwood and Uncle Fred are the most commonly used ones.
Bring to boil.5.
Garnish with grumpy village policemen and irate magistrates.
Serve hot.---BTW, this novel has a village cop named Harold Potter - though he is never called Harry.
With a well-stocked set of grey matter quick on its feet, Uncle Fred's got a solution for everything.
That said, solutions often involve deceit and disguise.
Besides the impossible ridiculousness of it all, Uncle Dynamite is also plentifully stocked with some of the more absurd names the author's ever produced: Frederick Altamont Cornwalis Twistleton, aka Lord Ickenham; Reginald "Pongo" Twistleton; Major Brabazon-Plank; Sir Aylmer "Mugsy" Bostock.And with that said, I'm going to end my review rather abruptly, because why?
Good old Uncle Fred. He's an interesting contrast to Jeeves. Where Jeeves uses deduction and reasoning to get Bertie out of jams, Uncle Fred weaves tapestry upon tapestry of lies. I'm amazed how much mileage (and how many laughs) Wodehouse manages to wring out of the same basic plot time after time.
Nothing is calculated to raise one's spirits faster than a large snifter of P.G. Wodehouse with its English country houses full of lovelorn young men, old crocodiles with moustaches, determined (but willowy) young women, and the usual suspects.
The difference in Uncle Dynamite is the presence of an unstoppable force of nature: one Frederick Altamont Cornwallis, fifth Earl of Ickenham.Uncle Dynamite is full to bursting with the usual stratagems and counter-stratagems, all tending to getting the right young men attached to the right young women.
One of the best PG Wodehouse books I've read/listened to. I like Uncle Fred even better than Jeeves and Wooster.
(Constable Potter reporting the matter of someone pushing him into the duck pond.)'I was assaulted by the duck pond, sir.' 'By the duck pond?' he(Sir Aylmer Bostock) echoed, his eyes widening.'Yes, sir.''How the devil can you be assaulted by a duck pond?'Constable Potter saw where the misunderstanding had arisen.
The English language is full of these pitfalls.A highly complicated plot, like as if it might have been a well cooked spaghetti.
Uncle Fred as usual lives upto the "pure dynamite" description of his by the thoughtful Crumpet.

Bill Oakshot, returning from a sojourn in Brazil, meets Lord Ickenham (Uncle Freddy) on the train home, where he hopes to announce his love for Hermione.
Unfortunately, Lord Ickenham inadvertently reveals that Hermione is engaged to Pongo (Reginald Twistleton), an old friend.
Anyway, in London they borrow a bust to replace the broken one -- Lord Bostock being nearsighted anyway -- from Sally, an American acquaintance who is miffed at Pongo because he refused to help her smuggle diamonds into the United States for her friend Alice.
In the meantime, Harold Potter, the local constable, has the hots for Lord Bostock’s maid, Emily Bean.
Well, Wodehouse stuck to his winning formula and wrote this one by the numbers, so a rating of four stars should be in order, however this book contains more than his usual amount of padding and 'wit' (or attempts at wit).
I'm a big fan of Wodehouse and his different series of books & characters, but I found (in the second half, mostly) that this book was about 20% too long, the author being even more garrulous than usual (if you can imagine that!).
Typical.Next Wodehouse book on my list is Cocktail Time.
Uncle Fred is probably the most hilarious character EVER. When he brought up Chingachgook - I was HOWLING. I wish there were more Uncle Fred stories - and while I sort of wish I had an Uncle Fred, there's Pongo, so reading about Uncle Fred's antics are one thing, living through them, quite another.
P.G. Wodehouse at its best. It had countless laugh out loud moments. Recommended to Anyone with a good sense of humour.
Another story about the antics of Uncle Fred and his long-suffering nephew Pongo Twistleton. I first encountered Uncle Fred in the short story “Uncle Fred Flits By”, which was hilarious. Uncle Fred enjoys impersonating other people, and is never daunted when circumstances seem to align against him. He always has a few tricks up his sleeve, and always ropes Pongo into his schemes. He’s one of my favourite of Wodehouse’s characters. Pure fun.
Lord Freddy Ickenham, nephew Pongo. Clever farce-romance, nice. 3.7 stars? Cool title.
More adventures of Uncle Fred and his nephew Pongo Twistleton. I love Uncle Fred! He's a great one to come to the rescue of anyone in trouble.
As ever Uncle Fred is determined ‘to spread sweetness and light’ under an assumed name, this time Fred is received at Ashenden Manor as explorer Major Plank.He has arrived to restore the engagement between his nephew Pongo and Sally Painter whom Fred considers his perfect match.
In a ill conceived moment of madness has become engaged to arty novelist, Hermione Bostock, whom is loved by Bill Oakshott recently returned from an expedition up the Congo with the real Major Plank.
The entire thing is just so gloriously funny and beautiful written that no superlatives could ever do it justice.Frederick Altamont Cornwallis Twistleton, 5th Earl of Ickenham (a kind of elderly Psmith), does his charming best to thoroughly live up to his school nickname of Barmy; his tender-hearted and immaculately dressed nephew Pongo suffers endless agonies; the plot is ludicrously complicated; the supporting characters are wonderful - especially the explorer Major "Bimbo" Brabazon-Plank, who suffers the horrid fate of knowing that his old schoolmate Lord Ickenham has been going about under his name.
It has a hyphen and everything.")My favourite moment would have to be Lord Ickenham's kindly advice to Pongo's fiancee that she really doesn't want to marry Pongo because he's heard that insanity runs in the family - just look at his Uncle Fred and all the things he's done.
Второй раз мне попадается книга, где редакция взяла на себя смелость "подправить" исходный текст.Но в этом томе в забавном "небольшом послесловии" хотя бы об этом пишут и даже пытаются объяснить.
"Даже не верится иногда, что это писал Вудхауз, — такие длинноты и скороговорки, такие неуклюжие ходы.
<...> Поэтому мы взяли на себя смелость предложить вам только первую половину (и то с купюрами) и самый конец, а остальное — коротко пересказать."И ещё позабавившая меня цитата из этого послесловия: "Нравится мне и линия Ванессы; но сейчас речь не об этом".---А если про сами произведения: Вудхауз как Вудхауз, однообразно, бодро, весело и легко, разбитые сердца и их починка, денежные проблемы.
Всё как всегда.
I feel a little funny just giving this book just three stars. There's nothing wrong with it, exactly. I just find Uncle Fred, aka the Earl of Ickenham, a much less appealing character than many of Wodehouse's broadly similar mischievous troublemakers. Wodehouse writes farce, to be sure, but the humor works best (for me, anyway), when he doesn't stray to far from reality. And Uncle Fred just doesn't seem "real" to me. Not bad, but not my favorite Wodehouse.
Hilariously written!
Perfect book from soup to nuts and I'll wrassle anyone who says otherwise!
This is my FIRST Wodehouse!!!!...any further Wodehouse will Rise or Fall depending on...THIS ONE SINGLE VOLUME...Wish IT Luck !!!!!!
Classic Wodehouse. A brilliant amalgamation of multiple storylines, coming together to be resolved in the most amicable manner possible, for all characters.
Jonathan Cecil shines once more in this narration of the second entry in the Uncle Fred series. Uncle Fred reminds me a lot of Galahad Threepwood in this one.
Humor presented with the best language constructs. The juxtaposition of situations is incredibly clever and funny. At the end of it, you would rather want to see more of Uncle Fred. Great read!
Next time someone asks what to read after Jeeves, give them this.
Uncle Fred is one of my favorite Wodehouse characters, and this book has him at his mischievous best!
When you are feeling blue and morose and generally displeased with life, pick up the nearest P G Wodehouse you can find, and you are guaranteed to be transported to a world of laughter and wholesomeness, and, if it happens to be one of the Uncle Fred books, of "sweetness and light".Frederick Altamont Cornwallis Twistleton, 5th Earl of Ickenham, Uncle Fred to his long suffering nephew 'Pongo' Twistleton and his friends, considers it his sacred duty to bring joy and contentment in the lives of those around him, using unorthodox and highly imaginative methods, never letting trifles like logic and legality hinder him.
This is the second book in which he features, the first, "Springtime for Uncle Fred", is usually included with the 'Blandings' stories.This story involves three middle-aged men who were at school together: Uncle Fred then known as 'Barmy' Twistleton, a peer with a cavalier attitude to both the law and the truth, 'Mugsy' Bostock, an irascible former colonial governor, current magistrate and prospective MP, and 'Bimbo' Brabazon-Plank, an explorer.
It also involves three couples from the next generation, one ill-fated engagement, an attempt to smuggle jewellery, some clay busts, a bit about publishing, false names, a 'bonny baby' contest and much skulking in shrubberies and bedrooms.
I lost track of how many times I laughed out loud during this book.
Jonathan Cecil is the best Wodehouse reader of all time.
I thoroughly enjoyed the plot of this one, which, when boiled down, is basically a couple of relationships needing to be fixed while something someone lost needs to be regained.
Now, take that basic plot, throw in hilarious characters, several impersonations, attempted thefts, and the some of the best metaphors and descriptions ever put on paper, and you have a masterpiece.I would recommend this to anyone at all.
3.5 stars, rounding up because PGW and as always, Delightful. Haven't read a P.G. Wodehouse book in decades. This was fun. Completely light-hearted, witty, formulaic fluff regarding a good-hearted through manipulative and disingenuous Uncle who actually does know what is best for his lemon-haired lily-livered nephew as well as the nephew of a very different sour, mean, cold-hearted Uncle. Favorite Britishisms in this book: Reach-Me-Downs instead of Hand-Me-Downs and "gasper" as a euphemism for cigarette. will have to check out Blandings Castle.
