https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/143877.Freedom_from_the_Known
He asks you to be free from whatever has been known to you in this world through the assistance of religion/society/ideologies and be constantly aware of yourself, of your own thoughts and actions, observing things as they appear to you, not seeing them from a prejudiced mind or under the influence of what is already known to you.
To discover that nothing is permanent is of tremendous importance for only then is the mind free, then you can look, and in that there is great joy.He reminded me of Joyce here:So if you understand that where there is a search for pleasure there must be pain, live that way if you want to, but don't just slip into it.
My friend died while I was reading this - he killed himself at 25, almost 26-years-old - and this book ties into so much of what I think was wrong about what he was thinking and why he killed himself, and it also helped me to be reading it, because it centered me and gave me perspective - to meditate, to neither be attached nor detached, to understand how violent and toxic society, religion, family, authorities, jobs and other values are.
I am not going to write reviews of all Krishnamurtis book because my understanding of what he was saying seems to be encompassed in this one.
I had never heard of him so she wrote down the title of this bookSoon after I got back I bought the book and was mesmerized by the simple and profound truth of what he was saying .No cult, no religion no dogma just a spotlight shone back on to my own conditioning.He does not give you any answers but seems to point out that we have to find our own truth.
We want to be told.
One of the most curious things in the structure of our psyche is that we all want to be told because we are the result of the propaganda of ten thousand years.
And that is all that matters - your life, yourself, your pettiness, your shallowness, your brutality, your violence, your greed, your ambition, your daily agony and endless sorrow - that is what you have to understand and nobody on earth or in heaven is going to save you from it but yourself.So...
Even consciously pursuing truth, he says, only puts a further barrier in front of it.
Instead of trying to improve yourself by consciously aspiring to a greater good, live with your natural anger, jealousy, and loneliness.
Don't sink into your vices, and at the same time, don't try and deny them.If this is sounding like nebulous spiritual hogwash, it's because that's basically what it is.
For anyone with any sense, it's probably not worth the effort, because you've been trying to live this way for some time.
Like he says, simply listening to some guru isn't going to help you accomplish your goal.
He wants an authority whome he hopes will bring about order in himself.
But can authority ever bring about inward order?
And for this, a great deal of awareness is required, actual awareness of what is going on inside yourself, without correcting it or telling it what it should or should not be, because the moment you correct it you have established another authority, a censor.""Leaders destroy the followers and followers destroy the leaders.""If you start by saying, 'I know myself', you have already stopped learning about yourself"
This was the first book (aside from children's shorts, of course!) I read from cover-to-cover out loud.
For me, it was a soul-blooming experience: I opened even wider to the possibility that simply engaging in the direct experience of living might be "where it's at."Reading through this book deepened my commitment to my personal spiritual practice...already heavily influenced by Buddhism.
In a way, Krishnamurti helped me let go of considering that big world religion as any authority I should subject myself to.
خوندن این کتاب تقریبا 2ماه طول کشید .دلیل اصلیش هم بیشتر این بود که هیچ جوره نمی تونستم با نوشته های کتاب ارتباط برقرار کنم ...
هر چند خط یه بار فورا" در مقابل نوشته ها جبهه می گرفتم و تو ذهنم یه بحث مفصل با نویسنده میکردم که "چرا و چطور؟!!
"...خلاصه اینکه برای من کتاب جالبی نبود.بیشتر از اینکه به سوالات شما جوابی داده بشه سوالهای بیشتری ی مطرح شده که اکثرا هم بی جواب گذاشته شده یا از خواننده خواسته شده که خودش جواب این سوال ها رو پیدا کنه...یعنی انقدری که تو این کتاب سوال مطرح شده بیشتر شبیه پرسشنامه شده تا چیز دیگه ای
This book is not at all what I expected. Instead of being told what to do, what to feel, and what to think like most philosophers; he instead challenges you to think for yourself and to learn these lessons on your own and not to follow him or any other leader to guide us because that will not succeed in creating change within ourselves. A very radical and inspirational book that is sure to intrigue any reader with an open mind.
I read many philosophers,I would not consider him one.
K is an educator.He is a world teacher.Most speakers or writers I know, take you to this mystic world and bring you back.
I truly enjoy that.One of my favorite parts of this and many more of his books - are his inquires on Love.
He says love is that state in which the thought process, as time, has completely ceased.
I love the fact that he is attributed to coming up with this word ‘Choice less awareness’.So much to inquire!!!
Even after years - I read him to inquire with him.
As my first experience of reading Krishnamurti whom I found difficult to understand , I've come across many extraordinary ideas which shook my own knowledge regarding seeking truth , love, and happiness, etc.
, then there would be no answers.
It's just you who can answer this question.
So the first step of having your own freedom and finding yourself is to get red of the 'thought' you have in your mind.
Observation lies at the centrality of seeking truth and freedom without having any kind of authority over you.
He is like no one else in the field of philosophy.
He is not interested in being a self help device or in helping you turn your life around.
"See for yourself.""Life is something to be discovered.
And you cannot discover it if you have not lost, put aside the things that you have found.
Put aside your philosophies, your religions, your customs, your racial taboos, and all the rest of it.
For they are not life.
If you are caught in those things, you will never discover life."
his key insight seems to be we individual humans must each become ‘aware’ not intellectually ‘know’, not emotionally, not intellectually, not philosophically, not religiously, but enacting in living, that each of us alone has the possibility and responsibility of absolute freedom from and of all conditioning- admiration, class, culture, education, expectation, family, genetics, history, ideals, ideology, images, knowledge, nationalism, politics, power, prejudice, racism, sexism, sorrow, and so on-and most importantly, the idea we can be ever free according or reacting to another, so krishnamurti is in fact thus ‘anti-guru’ who refuses to believe he or any other can necessarily teach this awareness...
Concentration is exclusion; attention, which is total awareness, excludes nothing.""A mind which is not crippled by memory has real freedom.""What is a fact is that one is fundamentally and lastingly interested in oneself.""You cannot be frightened of the unknown because you do not know what the unknown is and so there is nothing to be frightened of.""Freedom from the known is death, and then you are living.""If you know love you will not follow anybody.
While reading this book, a quote by Herman Hesse kept playing through my mind.
"Knowledge can be communicated, but not wisdom." With that being said, I found this book to be very interesting with a lot of truth but a very hard read.
I definitely agree with a lot of what was said but it took an open mind and a change in perspective.
I definitely think this will be a book I pick up and read again and I will be curious to see if his words hold different meaning for me as I grow older and gain more wisdom myself.
I can never tell if krishnamuri is a brilliant philosopher or more akin to a child asking his mother questions about EVERYTHING it sees. "mommy what's that" "it's a pen dear""mommy what's that..."His questions are explained in a way that makes them extremly thought provoking. I have lost hours of sleep muddling over even his simple philosophies, like the notion of love for example. His core principle of never having an absolute understanding makes my brain do cartwheels. If your thinking philosophy, you HAVE to read him.
I had really high expectations for this one, my first Krishnamurti book, and I was severely disappointed, but is having some difficulty figuring out, what exactly it was that rubbed me the wrong way, or rather, didn't rub me the  right way...I was mainly bored, and I guess that might be due to the fact that I never really connected to the voice of Krishnamurti, that somehow his way of talking about the matters at hand, just never really captivated me, never gave me that aching feeling of an expression of something that rings true, something that lights up the darkness you are in, or something that is so honest, clear or beautiful that it's like visiting someplace new and being struck by a familiar feeling of coming home.Often Krishnamurti seemed like he was going in circles, contradicting himself, and this, combined with a sense of speaking the Truth and not a Truth (something I have a strong aversion to) just had me confused as well as thinking that him and me are not a good match, in spite of the fact that we probably agree on several issues.
"A man who knows that he is silent, who knows that he loves, does not know what love is or what silence is."I am following a man who does not like to be followed.O, the irony.
با خواندن این کتاب، دنیای جدید و نو شونده ای تجربه خواهید کرد، دانستن نه،رهایی از آن
"الانسان الذي يعرف أنه صامت، الذي يعرف أنه يحب، لا يعرف ما هو الحب أو ما هو الصمت"
Freedom From The Known has been called the primary work and magnum opus of J Krishnamurti.
I never had read Krishnamurti before neither heard of him.
So it was fresh to read a completely new work by someone i never had to judge before.
Although my review is a bit late now nevertheless i read it in 4 days.
I got 40% understanding first so read it again and still hard to say if i completely get it.
Every word of it you can easily understand.
Than to me it was hard to grasp some ideas of Krishnamurti.
Enjoy reading.
I won't attempt to describe this book in any qualitative form except to say that it made me think...
When I read Freedom from the Known, the feeling is one of euphoria.
During the 6 month period when Bruce Lee was bedridden due to a serious back injury, he read a lot.
One of the people he was most interested in was Krishnamurti.
How can it be that I know hardly anything about this man?I won't go into any specific detail about Freedom for the Known now, but I enjoyed every page of every section of the book.
This was difficult reading for me. There were some great nuggets, though, which spoke right to my heart. It could be that I'm too much of a "Western" thinker, I don't know. I read it because a friend of mine said it had been influential in her life. It was worth reading for those nuggets that spoke to me: Question everything I've been taught in this society, directly experience wonder without filters, be open to everything. Just not a fluid read for me nor easily digested.
What can I say??? ....... Must read for yourself.
I am speechless. Wordless. This book is not something I can describe. If you want to expand and awaken your mind, just read it.
All the search should be over after a little jostle with this book the most sensible action would be to stop looking !!
Truly profound and radical in its approach. An amazing inquiry into the self and one's own conditioning. This has the capacity to change every reader.
Second, because this book is what I call a "subjective observational prose", one must be willing to accept the seemingly illogical or impossible assumptions that Krishnamurti took to present this writing.
Similar analysis is then employed to other objects besides the self, such as fear, anger, love, mind, knowledge, desire, ad nauseam.
Perhaps because the previous chapters are too abstract for my shallow and unenlightened mind to appreciate, I feel like he started to make more sense when observing love.
Some of you will love the book and revere it and you will go on to live a fulfilled life free from the known.
There's wisdom to be found here for sure, but most of the time, to be brutally honest, he just kind of comes off like a know-it-all jerk.
There's a lurking "i'm smarter than you", "if you do that this way you're a complete idiot" tone that pops up from time to time that's a real turn off, in my opinion.
One of his big ideas he comes back to several times is that of ignoring any type of dogma or teaching - finding the answer within yourself, all that stuff - does that include his own teaching?
Clear views on how to live in the moment, stop overthinking and intellectualizing truth, beauty, peace, and instead see them as the instantaneous unconditioned dynamic realities of the living. Very big on rejecting spiritual authority, somewhat conflicted about rejecting self.Also, clearly frustrated with meditation experience seeking of the '60s, repeatedly asking "why do you want to be told in a book what thoughts to think? Ask yourself instead."
