https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/547334.Masks

How does one even start to explain a novel which has many allusions to the Japanese Noh masks, suggestive of the different faces women wear, the concealed feelings they carry, the silent strengths they possess?
And it seems to me she must be one of the last women who lives that way still - like the masks - with her deepest energies turned inward.
Of course, someone gets their feelings hurt, but since this is in no way the average drama of female protagonists, the conclusion could come as a surprise; in fact, it may even break your heart a little.
Enchi’s inclusion of the ‘shamanistic ritual’ as a route probing the validity of an outwardly experience in a world of reality favours the depth of attraction that Mieko has toward the Rokujo Lady and the connotation of Yasuko and Mieko veiled under a inexplicable expression.Furthermore, besides the symbolic inclusion of The Tale of Genji , Enchi makes noteworthy references to ‘Yoru no Nezame’ and ‘The Tales of Ise’ to elucidate the magnetism of sexual ecstasy that segregates realism from dreamy confusions orchestrating the incompetence of human emotions and the competence of self- ego, a weight indissoluble from a woman’s being.Masugami 増髪
“The secrets inside her mind are like flowers in a garden at nighttime, filling the darkness with perfume.”- Fumiko Enchi, MasksThis is my first book by a female Japanese author.
She’s like the face of a No mask, wrapped in her own secrets.”This book is shrouded in mystery which is made even more fascinating by discussion of spiritualism, and the love triangle between Yasuko and her two suitors.
At the same time, I think Enchi allowed us to see how multi-faceted her female characters were, which is something I always appreciate in literature.

By some extraordinary artistry in the carving of the mask, that smile could change mysteriously into a look of weeping.I admit it, I'm deeply fascinated with the masks as these sort of alike, all too human emotions that become different from what's inside, behind that mask, what is turned inward for oneself and what's outside.
And it seems to me she must be one of the last women who lives that way still- like the masks- with her deepest energies turned inward.
I'd sensed something of the sort all along, in a vague way, but yesterday, as I watched her studying those masks and costumes, it came to me more clearly than ever before."Mieko is mother-in-law to Yasuko.
If you look for fuckery intrigue, especially tagged with such words as "women", "revenge", "manipulation" and "wtf is going on here" - pick Japanese! They mastered all the aforementioned subjects.Well, I've got a very mixed feelings about this book. On one hand I enjoyed it, the writing style and the main idea, but I got lost about "why?" and "so?...". Anyway, 3.5 stars is pretty fair, it seems to me.
Enchi brilliantly weaves a reinterpretation of the character Rokujō lady from The Tale of Genji with the vengeful spirit of the heroine Mieko, whose husband Togano Masatsugu, "believed to be descended from a powerful clan in line to become feudal lords" and who still adhered to dominating, misogynistic codes, had caused her severe and immeasurable humiliation and suffering throughout their marriage.The novel is sectioned into three chapters, each named for Nō masks which metaphorically depict the novel's "cloaked" particulars, and in turn define its supernatural concerns.The first chapter named Ryō no onna means 'spirit woman', the vengeful spirit of an older woman tormented by the bitterness of her life.
Porque no hay nada de eso.El lector debe hacerse una idea uniendo todos los puntos, escuchando los silencios, intentando discernir la personalidad de las mujeres en lo que hacen, pero sobre todo en lo que dejan de hacer.Tal vez en otra ocasión me hubiera resultado una lectura fascinante (como muestra casi quirúrgica del machismo en Japón) pero la personalidad de Mieko es demasiado enigmática, demasiado cerrada.
De hecho, ambas novelas parecen estar unidas en ser escritos de mujeres que en realidad hablan de mujeres y de su sufrimiento dentro de una sociedad tan machista como la nipona."Mascaras femeninas" es una lectura interesante, pero no creo que yo le haya sacado todo el jugo que debería.
If you want to use her to circumvent all that, be prepared to descend into the stigma generated around sex work and emotional labor and menstruation and disability, else you'll just be glutting yourself alongside all the rest.Lately, I've been mulling over revenge horror played in the female key, from a sequential (re)watch of Ju-On 1 and 2 to my favorite character story arc in the current season of Penny Dreadful.
I don't know what it is that stokes this particular appetite of mine, but with a millennium of criticism that will even at times lurk into the realms of fictional literature, I'm in good company.
For people who love a weird plot with a bit of drama, romance, suspense, and good-prose...
Tiene una narración estrictamente japonesa, es decir, pausada, sutil, descriptiva en cuanto a entorno y expresividad de los personajes, y muy para leer entre líneas, pero a mí me encanta este tipo de escritura y, en este caso concreto, me enganchó desde la primera página.
Pero también me enganchó por otros factores, y estos son 1) el misterio que se genera, 2) lo perverso y seductor de los personajes, 3) el sentimiento continuo de "¿dónde me lleva este libro?
Tengo que saberlo".Es una historia en la que se habla mucho de los tipos de espíritus japoneses, y el imaginario paranormal de Japón es muy amplio.
A mysterious novella that begins in a quiet humble way as we meet the young widow Yasuko whose husband, the only son of Meiko Togano, was killed tragically in an avalanche.Yasuko has stayed close to her mother-in-law who is like a peripheral character, but as the story ventures further, it becomes apparent she is manipulating events and that this is not the first time in her life she has done so.
You know those books that you read a page or two (or a hundred), and you look down and go, "Wait a second, what did I just read?" Yeah, that's pretty much what happened.
Perhaps it's my arrogant self-promoting conceitedness talking, but the only lasting emotion I felt after chucking this book in the garbage can was sheer pity for the poor soul that actually gets their jollies off this kind of story.
Anyway, I'm exhausting myself just talking about this.
I threw on a second star only because from time to time the monologuing is broken up with some very well-done descriptive passages.
Por fin me inicio con Enchi.
Que gustazo ha sido leer cada palabra de esta novela.
La historia nos habla de Mieko y Yasuko, suegra y nuera.
Ambas unidas tras la muerte de Akio, hijo de una, marido de la otra.
Aparecen dos amigos que se disputan la atención de Yasuko.
Una gran y sútil historia de vegenza, engaños, e incluso me atrevería a decir, feminista.
Una lástima que Fumiko Enchi solo tenga dos novelas publicadas en español.
Sobre todo, teniendo en cuenta que los autores hombres de renombre de su época tienen, prácticamente, toda su obra traducida.
El mundo necesita más de Enchi.
It was...fine. An interesting take on the metaphors of The Tale of Genji, but ultimately since I had to overanalyze this for a class, it fell short of being enjoyable.
A novel that is disturbing, weird, and disturbingly inexplicable.
And weird.
It sounds straightforward on the surface, but there is a running vein of that inexplicable I just mentioned: dark shamanesses, "living possession", and the masks of the title, here noh masks that represent the different stages of corruption and darkness that come with age.
Enchi successfully fuses Japanese dark lore with modern obsessions with art, fidelity, and the spiritually banal (seances).
It all hurtles together in an inspired, black ending that one can't read in any one certain way, hence Enchi's genius!
There is an amazing essay on The Tale of Genji within that helps explain the "spirit possession" angle, an opening scene where the main characters attempt to communicate with the dead, which will undoubtedly be off-putting to some.
It is their fate to be understood only by men of a rare sensitivity like Genji, popular with women exactly for the reason that surrendering entails danger.Like Murasaki who is outstanding on psychological details, Enchi builds up her story based on what cannot be articulated.
Because I don't know enough about Noh / Classical Japanese drama to fully understand all the asides and references.
It's about spirit possession in the sense that is used within the Tales of Genji.
Fully comprehensive of a Japanese definitive for the inward controlled and focused power of women.
And most truth of/in emotion hid behind other often opposite actions- in masks of reality's converse and interaction.
This holds the feel of the stories of Japanese fox spirits disrupting throughout the entire.
All of these actions have dubious motives too, men and women.
Harmful "spirit possession" of others.
All the world's a stage, and the main character of this book - even though she is often behind the scenes - is a vicious, manipulative woman who controls those around her.
Her son has died and now she is controlling her daughter-in-law and her daughter-in-laws' male admirers.
She eventually manipulates everyone, including a retarded woman, to gain a grandson to re-create her deceased son.
The book is translated from the Japanese and has a bit of local color from Japan of the 1950's.
(The book was first published in 1958 and is translated from the Japanese.) Some themes in the book include the Japanese noh masks and Japanese folklore about spirit possession.
Una lectura totalmente absorbente ambientada en un mundo de engaños e ilusiones, con personajes manipuladores y espíritus posesivos.... ¡Genial!
that was brutal
Even if there are no children, I think both people are forever changed."This 1950s novella by a major Japanese woman author is an elegantly spare narrative of sexual deception and conspiracy, unfolding through a minimalist series of scenes, flashbacks, and conversations.
[The poet] has managed to build up a respectable literary reputation over the years, but if you ask me, [the poet]'s been taking everyone in with counterfeits the whole time."But another character offers this more generous, and more tragic, interpretation of the same poet:"[The poet] lacked the courage to take action in real life, and therein...lay the explanation for [their] literary gifts."Masks is a beautifully disturbing portrayal of how our cowardices and evasions, our deceptions and conspiracies, allow us access to art's ethereality while simultaneously condemning us to human hells.
İngilizce çevirisi de oldukça başarılı ve zengin olmuş.Son derece sürükleyici bir kadın mitosu bu hikaye.
Mieko, Yasuko ve Harume'nin erkekleri şeytani bir planın parçası yaptığına şahit oluyor okuyucu.
Mieko evrensel cadı mitoslarında okuyup bildiğimiz kötücül yaşlı cadı gibi tarif edilse de son derece derinliği ve katmanları olan bir karakter.
İnsan onu okurken ona karşı ikilemde kalıyor: hem hayranlık hem de tiksinti duymamak elde değil adeta.
Yazar da hem no tiyatrosundan kadın karakterleri ve hem de Tale of Genji'yi kendi hikayesinin içine katmış ve ortaya çağdaş bir No tiyatrosu çıkmış adeta.
Bu senenin benim için açık ara en iyilerinden.
After ranting and raving about Japanese literature to my parents for a good portion of the year, I was gifted with several additions to my collection- granted, they're much more modern than what I had read before.
As well as containing a slow-building yet intense plot, it ties in with such classics of Japanese literature such as The Tale of Genji and Noh drama.
Enchi's knowledge of the classics is used in such a way that it embellishes the actual plot.
While I do not consider Masks to be in the same ranks as other Japanese works I've read, it's very different and very much an enjoyable read.
One woman, widowed, and her mother-in-law, play a twisted game of seduction and sex, using people for their own purposes, and using each other too.Enchi surrounds this novel with the paraphernalia of the Japanese Noh dramas.
The two women keep everyone they use guessing at their purposes, guessing whether they even like each other, guessing at who is the smarter of the two, guessing at whether they are lesbian lovers---all this guessing keeps anyone from finding the real purpose of the game they play.While the end is not horrific, it is disturbing in that their end plan is completely morally dubious.The book is captivating and shows the difference in Japanese culture and ours in many ways.
With sly wit and sophisticated design, Masks is an extraordinary work of art.
Enchi Fumiko's prose is deep, complex, and elegant, reminiscent of, and often compared to, Mishima Yukio.This is a story of manipulation.
The main actors are: a cultured woman in her mid-fifties, her beautiful daughter-in-law, and her two willing admirers.
This woman, who had lost her chance for lasting love many years before, machinates to destroy her daughter-in-law's prospects of happiness.
The sophistication of Enchi's prose is exemplified through the interweaving of aspects of Noh, a classical form of Japanese drama, into her story.
Masks is the first Japanese literature book I have read (on the recommendation of my husband who took a Japanese lit class in college, a long time ago), and it is an excellent book.
It is the story of complex relationships and manipulation: a mother-in-law, whose son has died, manipulates the relationship between her daughter-in-law and two men who are in love with her for her own purposes.
While the main story is fairly straightforward, the underlying layers make it even more interesting - especially the references to spirit possession and the ideas of women and power in Japan.
Definitely recommended.
(53)In questo senso Fujitsubo e Murasaki sono donne che dissolvono tutto di se’ nel doloroso tormento di accettare gli uomini, facendo cosi’ sbocciare in loro il fiore dell’amore eterno; al contrario Rokujo e’ una Ryo no onna, una donna-spirito: si consuma nell’incapacita’ di annullare il proprio ego nell’amato, e solo attraverso l’inconscia facolta’ possessiva del suo spirito demoniaco trasmette agli altri la propria volonta’ senza ricorrere ad azioni vere e proprie.
(155)Da allora sono immerso nel Poema del Mare Che, lattescente e invaso dalla luce degli astri, Morde l'acqua turchese, dentro cui, fluttuando, Scende estatico un morto pensoso e illividito; ...Dove, tingendo a un tratto l'azzurrità, deliri E ritmi prolungati nel giorno rutilante, Più stordenti dell'alcol, più vasti delle lire, Fermentano i rossori amari dell'amore!
Less of a review but more a random hodgepodge of thoughts.Masks - takes place in post WWII Japan and has at its premise a very curious idea: spirit possession.
I think that's what made this book initially strange to me- this near academic attitude towards spirit possession.
Extreme emotions are controlled and hidden (like in a mask) and expressed supernaturally.
The book has a controlled, gothic quality: a porcelain, romantically turbulent landscape.I have been struck, by the few books I have written that has taken place in post WWII Japan- is the simultaneous alien and yet, familiar.
