https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/62567.Schr_dinger_s_Cat_Trilogy
Sprinkling a few parrot droppings from a reading of Niels Bohr does not a physicist make.Now, in the Dell rollup, on page 225, Wilson relates a story of a character, Hugh Crane, who at age ten watches a Mysterious Tramp who keeps asking people questions, all of whom shook their heads and walked on.
I read this before I read the Illuminatus!
Trilogy, and though it only took me one time through that and one and half times through this, I enjoyed this so much better.For one, it's much sillier.For another, it's more scifi.For another, it made much more sense.Not that I didn't like Illuminatus!, just that Schrödinger's was much more digestible.
Less conspiracy theory, less Christian-related mythology.
More scifi, in other words.
My favorite thing about this book is that I keep loaning it to people, and not only does it never come back, but most of them actually get at least half of the obscure references to out-of-print pagan theologies, tenets of physics and aging Lovecraft novels.
Like most of Wilson's work, this book pushes you a little outside of your comfort zone.
And I intend to keep giving them out to people I come across that should read them, and keep expecting that those "loans" will never be returned.
Trillogy (The book that invented the Illuminati), start of quite dated and generally absurd, with some fairly typical set-pieces you'd expect from a bunch of pot-addled, coke-snorting alcoholic genius quantum nerds but then it really does start to get very interesting.
The second book in the series recasts many of the original characters in different roles, genders, races and so on but keeps a general theme of 'quantum those says all pasts and futures exist, so who cares what happens'.
By the third book you are really into the swing of it and the fluxes in character again make more overall thematic sense.
If you've read Wilson before, then you should know exactly what to expect from this book.
This book is more about its ideas than its writing: a mash-up of Timothy Leary, Joyce, a mostly-correct understanding of quantum mechanics, sex, drugs, conspiracies, politics, mysticism and the absurd.The title draws upon quantum mechanics, and Wilson seems to be attempting an illustration of Everett & Wheeler's many-worlds interpretation of QM.
The characters and their worldviews are all interesting and unique, but thoroughly familiar if you've read enough Wilson.
Needless to say, it's not what you've read in this or other books.
Necessary for everyday survival.Also, as a total bonus, totally messes with your head.I have two different editions of this book (first edition and the edition listed above) and they're substantially different. Heh.
I really had high hopes.This book fell kind of flat however, as Mr. Wilson attempts to visualize the concept of the multiverse my creating different versions of each of his characters, many of whom first appeared in the Illuminatus.
Having read the Illuminatus first, I recognized the characters, and how he was attempting to show the variations based on quantum variability.A good read overall, but not nearly the quality of his first Trilogy.
4.5 stars for sheer commitment to a universe that it inspires you to write a parallel universe TRILOGY.
The story dips, ducks, and dives in and out of readability, and seems at times to be too rib-jabbingly inside jokey, peppered with too many inspirations barely fictionalized, and sometimes preachy; but the fact remains, no one had attempted writing these ideas into a comedic drama like this, and RAW's pen often leaves a crowing Phoenix trail of majestic, world-saving ink across the page that draws your own soul higher (and lower) towards the crazy Truthz he has grokked.
Plus, he literally semantically saves our society using his Hubbard character to express simple genius in democratic leadership.
I figured I'd like this one given how much I liked "The Illuminatus! Trilogy," and I wasn't wrong. I think Illuminatus was a little more enjoyable as a work of fiction, but this book is definitely more sophisticated on a conceptual level. Metafiction, reality selection, quantum physics, there is an awful lot going on in this book. I think I would have enjoyed it even more if I'd picked up on more, but I understood enough to think a great deal of it.
I have both finished and not finished this volume, a book I simultaneously loved and detested. Please get thee hence (or not) to your local bookstore and either pick one up, or don't. You will not be privy to the outcome of the purchase (or non-purchase) until such time as the store closes, thus letting you out through the door for your state to be revealed.
One of the most influential books I've read in the past few years. If the plot has a focus--which I do not mean to assert--it is likely that we as humans do not fully recognize or comprehend our primate lineage and ancestry and the social and societal implications of this are enormous. Mind changing book. [Dated here at second reading:]
It will entice you with genuinely interesting ideas and writing, with the subtle promise it's all going to be justified in some quantum/parallel-universe sense by the end.
Starting on page 510 is a chapter in which a character explains "..the line between avant-garde literature and nonsense is ambiguous..." Good point but the author isn't treading that line as neatly as he thinks he is.
The author implies more than once elsewhere that people who don't understand the book they are holding are unsophisticated primates.
I had to keep going because if I skipped any of it I might overlook the key to it's madness that might unlock some hidden meaning.
The author draws himself, the book (recursively) and his over-complexity into the plot.
It is partly a book about the "Schrödinger's Cat Trilogy", partly a book about Schrödinger's Cat and partly a book about everything.
The core to it lies is three different interpretations of quantum physics, illustrated in 3 parallel versions of a story affecting the same characters by what I suppose I should call non-locality.
This is not a criticism, however, as this was an extremely entertaining read, and the author appears to be a true omniscient.
Maybe those last 3 are redundant.It is well soaked in RAW's 8-circuit model of human behaviour, but it's better to read about that model in his non fiction books like Quantum Psychology or Prometheus Rising.On this re-read, after reading it maybe 15 years ago with no clear memory of it, I read about 60 pages of book 1, then skimmed a bit of book 2 which I liked better because it was at least happening in a things go well universe instead of a things go badly universe.
Was not motivated to skim book 3.
Getting put on the "books to sell or donate" pile.
Truly more than a trilogy, more like 7 books, but I don't know if there is a -logy for 7.Its a colorful book that anyone who understands String Theory, or Super Gravity, or the 11 dimension model would truly dig.Heavy on 60s ish drug culture, it follows the detached penis of a former man through many dimensions of space and time. How fun does that sound?
Shaggy shoggoth story indeed.
The strangest book I've read.
The only time it broke from that expression was when I encountered the word “grok” in the text, or the cute and punny names.Otherwise, it read like someone on a lot of drugs was simply writing down all their free associations as quickly as they possibly could before the drugs wore off.
If unicorns could weave underwater baskets then basketball would be played by Cthulu inside my peach flavored ice cream cone.
But no one eats peach flavored ice cream for that way lies the apotheosis.
No longer is this prose poetry, but now science fiction because science words are in.Yeah, it’s about like that.
This, The Schrödingers Cat Trilogy is the set of all possible quantum sequels to the original**.It is funny, satirical, an instruction book for magical initiation, a manual for political philosophy and sort of a thriller in that the fate of mankind is at stake in each of the alternate universes.
You have been warned.Read This: If you want to read a genuine cult classic, a psychedelic haze of magic, mind and alternate dimensionsDon’t Read This: If you want things to make sense or don’t like when people break taboos, which are there for a reason, maybe?* Run by and publishing things by people interested in free speech to sell porn, and also people interested in porn as a way to sell free speech.** Schrödingers Cat is a well known quantum paradox/thought-experiment that I will not explain here.
A deeply intense and wacky trilogy.
So: We are all primates and behave accordingly.
There are different philosophies about what this means for the Universe.
Usually this "reality" is badly prejudiced by our primate programming.
To step outside primate programming and "grok" this state of affairs is akin to enlightenment, Buddah-hood, what have you.
This is all laid out with satirical, lyrical, profane stories that take the reader through different Universes - which is ultimately the skeleton for a prescription for Utopia!
That is a lot of amazing stuff crammed into this trilogy.
the universe next door:A reread. Bounding between alternate universes, this NSFW conspiracy thriller is just hysterically funny.the trick top hat:More different universes, with slightly different versions of the characters and historythe homing pigeons:This is the one that I remember most. He replaces "bad" words with the names of Supreme Court Justices (which I later found out he stole for Gore Vidal's "Myron", the sequel to "Myra Breckingridge", which the Supreme Court ruled obscene, I guess) and others (mostly politicians and feminists or both, some of whom I didn't know about back when I read it the first time)
well......the story is mental, the dialogue at times is utter nonsense, but the characters are excellent and when its good its mindblowing, totally confusing and brilliant in equal measures.
It felt like a chore to get to the end. There were some interesting ideas buried in it, but for me it wasn't at all enjoyable to read.
Basically, much like the Illuminatus trilogy, but stripped of joy. This is an endless and interminable slog.
I like sombunall (some, but not all) of Robert Anton Wilson's work.
I suppose Mr. Wilson intended this to evoke chaos and multiplicity, but it comes across as inept.Much of the humor comes from silly puns, especially character names like Carol Christmas, or Marvin Gardens.
Mr. Wilson includes several scenes of his characters' active and imaginative sex lives.
Mr. Wilson has expressed most of the ideas in this trilogy more cogently in other works.
I count myself as a Robert Anton Wilson fan, but I had to struggle to finish this.
I love the idea of the trilogy: each book takes its characters through a different interpretation of QM.
From the wiki: "The first book, The Universe Next Door, takes place in different universes in accord with the many worlds interpretation of quantum physics; in the second, The Trick Top Hat, characters are unknowingly connected through non-locality, i.e., having once crossed paths they are joined in quantum entanglement; and the third book, The Homing Pigeons, places characters in an 'observer-created universe' in which Consciousness Causes the Collapse of the wavefunction."The book is pretty wacky, and as such may not be for everyone.
How to sum up a book that started an entire branch of thinking?
Simply, this book was my introduction to RAW.
Much of the suspicions that echoed from multiple other influences found resonance in this book, and many of the insights had at the same time synchrogimmickly manifested themselves in a game of peek-a-boo with the man behind the curtain.
Though its' been a good 11+ years since, many of the staples of the book are still holding together a mental-folder entitled 'MAY-BE'.
In my opinion they were way better and funnier than the Illuminati series, and were probably one of the dorkier things I've ever read.
I thought Infinite Jest seemed kind of indebted to some devices here -- e.g., in alternate universes, genitalia is referred to by names of Supreme Court justices, i.e., "He had an enormous, throbbing Rehnquist" (this obviously stayed with me) -- though probably that sort of thing is common in this genre, which I never read much of.
I know I enjoyed it a lot when I read it.I remembered really liking this as a teenager and gave it to my kid brother a few years ago for his thirteenth birthday.
Robert Anton Wilson's (RAW as he is known) work constitutes one of my greatest guilty pleasures.
The three books making up RAW's Schrodinger's Cat trilogy are much easier to access than his more famous collaboration with Robert Shea, the masterpiece, The Illuminatus!
We are still dealing with many of the same ideas: quantum theory and multiple universes, secret organizations and conspiracies, and, of course, the greatest human preoccupation, sex.
If you can handle extreme wackiness and absurdity, you are able to deal with literary whiplash, and you aren't shocked by the many facets of the human condition, you should get a kick out of RAW's trilogy.
Basically Wilson tries to redo Illuminatus!
but doesn't have Shea there to temper his stupider libertarian cyber-worshipping tendencies.
The books basically amount to "everyone who criticizes technology or the inevitability that neoliberal capitalism will save us all in the end is a crazy hateful robot, and everyone who agrees with Robert Anton Wilson about everything is a genius." Ralph Nader as the BAD GUY??
Stupid speech about how black pride is racism and borne out of hate or whatever?
This is a really awful book compared to Illuminatus!
