https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/34072.Jimmy_Corrigan_the_Smartest_Kid_on_Earth
Per esempio, questo ha un inusuale formato rettangolare, obbligatorio per tutti i paesi: sono le esatte dimensioni dell’urna cineraria che gli fu consegnata dopo la morte del padre.Jimmy Corrigan è una riflessione sul rapporto padri-figli, e sull’abbandono.Diavolo, con tutto quello che precede, come si fa a non partire carico fino a scoppiare?Memorie del passato e attimi del presente: cosa è successo veramente e cosa è solo immaginato?E invece le pagine rettangolari sono tante, quattrocento circa, e ognuna può richiedere anche un buon quarto d’ora di ‘lettura’, perché può contenere anche trenta quadri, di cui alcuni sono 2 cm x 2,5 cm, e non è semplice seguirne l’ordine, a volte Ware usa le frecce, a volte no, dialogo e didascalie a volte sono interni al quadro a volte invece esterni, nel qual caso appartengono a quale disegno, quello sopra o quello sotto, quello di destra o quello di sinistra?
So I am abandoning it with relief.The great thing about this book is the brilliant graphic concepts which dazzle and delight on every other page.
The unreadable thing about this book is its subject matter, which is the life of a miserable loner with a bullying father examined in very great painful detail.
I would reproduce Jimmy’s visage here so you could see what I mean but then my review would have the painful balding cringing circular kisser looking out at me and frankly if I never see Jimmy Corrigan again in this life it will be a blessing.
I, myself not a wholehearted admirer of the graphic novel, am usually very surprised by the narrative techniques and posh styles used in famous comics like "Watchmen", "Maus" &, most recently, "Ghost World".
did I really need this type of monotony (and even, ironically, with the more than 3000 illustrated scenes which change beautifully in scope, color, emotion, etc.)?
It was like watching an Oscar-inclined indie drama with no end in sight...long, yes, beautiful, poignant, well-put-together, even avant-garde.
But James's face never changes; neither does the reader's interest peak or descend.
Nothing here spoke to me in a blatant, colorful, or (graphic) novel way.
I'm surprised that GoodReads doesn't allow a sixth star for this book alone. I can not say enough great things about Jimmy Corrigan. Honestly, it changed my life, and I can't imagine anyone not being in awe of its mathematics, literally and figuratively. This book is like the Catcher in the Rye for graphic novels. It raised the bar and it will not be matched for a very long time. Brilliant, brilliant, brilliant. Breathtaking and deep. Brilliant.
Chris Ware tells a heart-rending story of loneliness, but what truly captured my admiration was the artwork.
He does a sort of stylistic 180 from the narrative.
While the story is intimate and emotional his images sort of stand back.
He employs repeated frames of seemingly insignificant details, such as a bird moving along a tree branch.
This makes the human drama stand out more when Ware does focus on the people.
The one drawback is in the layout of the frames.
I had to think for a second, "which frame am I supposed to focus on next?" It interrupted the flow.
I love me some graphic novels but I don't pretend that the vast majority of them rise to the level of serious literature.
Most of the time I look for the large number of books out there that are "clever" (as in, better than 90% of TV) as a mindless respite between novels.
And in the case of ones such as Louis Riel, Berlin, or Maus, I get a little bit of education without trudging through a 600 page history book.
Jimmy Corrigan, though, is one of the five or six graphic novels I've read that have simply blown me away.
La triste solitudine del perdenteInizio con il dire che non credo di avere mai letto una graphic novel (o dovrei dire romanzo?) più triste di questa.Un libro ponderoso (trecentottanta tavole, tremilasettantadue disegni, trecentottantapagine) che, in modo assolutamente innovativo, meticoloso e originale, racconta l'incontro disastroso tra un uomo di mezza età debole, triste e incapace di reagire con il padre che lo aveva abbandonato da piccolo.
Non riesce a reagire, anche se dentro di sé vorrebbe; e questo dà luogo a una sofferenza silenziosa che si percepisce fisicamente.Jimmy sogna, spera, desidera.
Una tristezza agghiacciante, solida.Il libro mi ha costretto a riflettere parecchio sia sul rapporto con mio padre che quello con mio figlio.
This is how life unfolds in the mind of Jimmy Corrigan, the desolate main character in Chris Ware’s graphic novel.
In his mind he has courage, kills people, commits suicide, has sex, and is “the smartest kid on earth.” In his actual life, Jimmy is a spineless, aging man, with no friends and no romantic ties.
A single moment in the novel can span across several illustrated panels that call the reader to absorb information—to taste and savor the moment—and hold off on situating it within the chronology of the story, at least not immediately.
Old memories, family history, and violent make-believe interrupt what could have been new development in the relationship between father and son.
I spent days not liking this book.Jimmy Corrigan is described by the author as "a lonely, emotionally-impaired human castaway."You got that right!
Panel after cartoon panel of people sitting in diners, doctors' offices, and hospital waiting rooms.This is WAY too much like MY life.Then we meet Jimmy's grandfather, a sad and lonely child, and his great-grandfather, who helped build the White City during the 1893 Columbian Exposition.
The little horse, and buggy, and coffin were really tempting, but I refrained as my copy belongs to the library.The ending was quite satisfying, and ended up bringing a book I started out not liking, very close to five stars.
I read Jimmy Corrigan sitting in a Denny's in Florida in 2000, watching the Bush/Gore election returns.
Many of the things we worried about came to pass, and we survived.Jimmy Corrigan is a living character in a way that most characters never dream of.
The book is a blueprint of his failed, miserable life, the lives that came before, the damp and clinging hope that maybe there will be lives after.He is trapped.
When you read the book you bring him to life, and that is the meanest thing you can do to him.
But Jimmy Corrigan is a monolith, an era-defining book.

This is a pretty bleak multigenerational work that mostly deals with the effects of emotional loss and abuse for a series of men and their sons--great grandfather, grandfather, father, son… the mothers play supporting roles and a daughter figures in later.
Sister Carrie's got nothing on this book for sheer sadness and depiction of the deep loneliness of life for so many people.
Emotion comes out of all the constraints, all the orderly neatly constructed repetition, I think, the limits, the neatly and careful drawn limits on lives he depicts so meticulously.
Seth, Chester Brown, others, all sad sack storytellers, help us see the lives of people we don't read about in much fiction.
This semi-autobiographical story about a character who is the caricature of insecurity is not endearing, not warm-hearted, not empathetic, not interesting, not inspirational, and not even "sad" or "depressing", like many reviewers say it is, because that would imply that this work is able to elicit some kind of emotion or empathy.
The reader is made into a psychiatrist who has to listen to this guy (not the character, mind you, the author!) whine about the total lack of joy in his life.
I had never met my real father and it kind of lodged in my brain like this weakness, this emotional weakness; I thought, “Someday I’ll meet him,” you know.
It took me a while to get round to it, and I'm thankful for that; I am sure that had I started reading graphic novels again with this, instead of in the places I did, I would not have continued on (and discovered books like Charles Burns' Black Hole and Jeff Smith's Bone, which actually deserve all the praise-- and more-- heaped upon Jimmy Corrigan).This is the first graphic novel that's ever taken me more than two weeks to read.
Even now that I've embraced the fifty-page rule, I can't bring myself to abandon a graphic novel; it seems like cheating.
Aside from that, let more impartial observers tell you, in this comprehensive summary that opens an essay by Juda Bennett and Cassandra Jackson that I will quote again later:Jimmy Corrigan traces the history of the titular character from a childhood characterized by an absent father and overbearing mother to his life as a middle-age white man whose isolation is represented by the cubicle in which he works.
I cannot now find it, but I recall that a critic at the time compared Jimmy Corrigan, with its complicated racial genealogy and its aesthetic formalism, to Faulkner's Absalom, Absalom!.
Incredibly sad.
The impressive thing is most of the melancholy doesn't stem from overwrought, dramatic events but rather the eerily believable facets of Jimmy's life.
The drab apartment buildings with neglected trees and empty parking lots, complete with a McDonald's arch in the distance.
Jimmy eating a can of Campbell's soup by himself after stammering his way through a conversation with his overbearing mother.
The shitty Thanksgiving decorations at the retirement home he visits.
Jimmy (and his ancestors, whose story you also follow) is so sympathetic because his challenges are so recognizable and plausible.
This is essentially a graphic novel version of Confederacy of Dunces. The main character is a bland two-dimensional simpleton who has a depressing life. There is nothing entertaining about this story, nor informative. It is pointless. I cannot empathise with the character at all.So essentially, if you thought Dunces was a masterpiece, you'll love this. For everyone else, steer well clear.
I know this is the graphic novel to end all graphic novels but I have to say I wasn't terribly blown away. It was well laid out and pretty to look at but was almost cliched in its portrayal of a loner. Meh.
THIS BOOK IS MAGIC.
Every time Miguel would look to see what page I was on, he’d declare, “You’re reading it too fast!” Indeed, with so much visual richness, it’s not a book to be rushed through, but experienced.
Unlike so many other angst-ridden characters, it’s not difficult to empathize with Jimmy.The drawings and layout of this graphic novel border on being downright cinematic.
Ware also sets the stage for certain scenes with wordless pages which are so artfully done that you can sense what the air feels like, smells like, sounds like, all of which enhances your emotional connection to the scene.
As other readers have mentioned, the pace can be a bit sluggish and due to the subject being so dismal, oftentimes it is difficult to build momentum--which resulted in my taking over 3 months to complete reading it.I just finished it a few minutes ago and experienced a bit of my own catharsis.
I still look on from a distance.While painful to read, either due to the dullness in certain parts (which so accurately reflects real life because not everything can be an adventure every second of everyday) or the wretchedness of events, once completed, the reader is left with a peek into a man who is simultaneously so delicate yet incredibly strong.
One, how Jimmy gets re-discovered by his father, who had earlier walked.
The other concerns other members of the patriclan who walked, and mainly flashes back to 1893 Chicago, where Jimmy's great (I think) grandfather worked on the Columbian expo.
Lots of textured domestic and playground scenes, as Jimmy's dad moves down in the world, arbitrary dismisses household servants (a black maid, May), for showing kindness to Jimmy against his will, and toadies to neighborhood elites, putting on a good face while he, and things in general, are rough at home.
It’s a brick of a work (380 pages) with an incredible amount of drawings on each page.
The style of drawing is relatively simplistic, but what Chris Ware manages to communicate through his simple art is incredible.
I don’t think I saw Jimmy smile once.
But he has had little to smile about in his life, having lived with an abusive, and then absent, father.
As an adult, Jimmy receives a letter from his father, requesting a meeting and this is the point where the book takes off.
And so Jimmy gets on a plane from Chicago out to suburban Michigan.Corrigan is one of those unfortunate-looking fellows who has a potato for a head and a wispy comb-over, and could be anywhere between 30 and 60; he looked little different as a child in the flashback scenes – somewhat like Charlie Brown, also in his depression, diffidence and inability to speak to women.I much preferred the historical interludes looking at his grandfather (another Jimmy) and his years growing up in Chicago with the World’s Fair under construction.
There’s also an uncomfortable amount of imagined violence – either homicide or suicide.(Included in my blog post “Graphic Novels for Newbies.”)
I've read my fair share of graphic novels (though less than I should), and Chris Ware is still the one who touches me deepest.
I haven't read Alison Bechdel's "Fun Home," which has piled up the accolades, but for my money nothing can beat Ware's "Jimmy Corrigan, the Smartest Kid on Earth" for sheer beautiful misery.
Published in 2000, one year before our national tragedy, it chronicled the awkward, lonely life of the titular loser who must deal with father issues in the bleak midwinter of his life.
Imagine Richard Yates' characters trapped in the panels of a comic strip and you'll have some inkling about the depth of wallow in "Jimmy Corrigan."
E' una graphic novel costruita per gli appassionati del genere perché decostruisce il genere stesso. In realtà è molto difficile leggerla in quanto lunga e ricca di immagini che smesso creano confusione, ma l'autore non smette di prendere in giro il suo lettore e di ironizzare sul genere neanche un momento, sin dalla copertina! E la storia del povero Jimmy, ne vogliamo parlare? Fa male, ma caspita quanto è vera! Non potrò più pensare in futuro al concetto di solitudine senza pensare a Jimmy Corrigan e alla speranza di veder sfrecciare nel cielo un eroe mascherato.
Jimmy Corrigan, the Smartest Kid on Earth war ein kleines Abenteuer. Startete vielversprechend, dann zuerst sehr verwirrend über einen spannenden Mittelteil bis zum bisschen unbefriedigten und doch total passenden Ende. Chris Ware hat da schon etwas Tolles geschaffen!
i understand why this book is called a masterpiece and it definitely is, especially graphically. but damn... it was incredibly depressing. i really didn't enjoy reading it and idk if i would recommend. maybe if u love art and aren't as susceptible to sheer pathetic loneliness
On top of juggling multiple story lines, Chris Ware also handles lots of complex symbols and motifs that gently move through both story lines, keeping things connected and cohesive.
Chris Ware takes on A LOT, and makes it seem effortless.
Although the narrative is important, well-constructed, and obviously central, the author's use of symbol and image to convey pain is what kept me so heavily invested.Quite honestly, I'm seriously considering re-reading this entire book as soon as I finish typing this review.
Go read this book, and DON'T SKIP THE "APOLOGY" ON THE ENDPAPER OF THE BACK.
Just reading the apology made me cry a final time.
Lo que cuenta este cómic es tan triste, tan lleno de momentos mezquinos, tan incómodo, que he tenido
