https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/10438328-the-garden-of-forking-paths

Written in 1941, The Garden of Forking Paths is a fascinating short story set during the first world war.
The story introduces a Chinese spy living in England and working for Germany during the war, 1916.
His cover has just been blown and he is on the run with sensitive information.He travels to meet one person who might be able to deliver this information to Germany.And at this point, everything changes...
Indeed, his writing suggests that philosophy is fundamentally a work of imagination and interpretation of the Library of the universe.Writers and philosophers alike are trying to unravel the mysteries of the universe.Once we accept this metaphor, this truth, Borges invites us to have some fun with the universe he has created.In a world otherwise preoccupied with the pursuit of order, sense and truth, he introduces play and games that involve hoaxes, fraud, fallacy, artifice, illusion, unreality, illogic, mirrors, mazes, labyrinths.A World Deciphered by Detectives This places the curious reader in the role of a detective who must sift through the evidence in order to determine the meaning of life:"Tlön may well be a labyrinth, but it is a labyrinth forged by men, a labyrinth destined to be deciphered by men." (view spoiler)[At least in the English translation, the word "forged" might be used in its two different senses in this sentence.
If in doubt, scroll down to the Quotes section at the end.Tlon, Uqbar, Orbis Tertius 6*This is the longest and has its own review, here.The Approach to Al-Mu’tasm 6*A review of a non-existent book (unless someone has since written it), that even notes the differences between the first and second editions.
The last of those is a recurring habit of Borges himself, including in this story, which purports to be about a real writer.This is a short essay about the great, but unfinished work, of a writer, who “did not want to compose another Quixote” but “the Quixote” by combining the don and Sancho into a single character and by, in some sense, becoming Cervantes.
Side note: today (August 24) is Borges' aniversary and here is a great article on his vision of Time: https://www.brainpickings.org/2016/09...----I learned about this story in Paul Halpern’s book  The Quantum Labyrinth: How Richard Feynman and John Wheeler Revolutionized Time and Reality . The author mentioned it when explaining Feynman’s theory ‘sum over histories’ about the multiple paths taken by particles interaction at quantum level.I don’t think science was in Borges mind when written this
Side note: today (August 24) is Borges' aniversary and here is a great article on his vision of Time: https://www.brainpickings.org/2016/09...----I learned about this story in Paul Halpern’s book 
  The Quantum Labyrinth: How Richard Feynman and John Wheeler Revolutionized Time and Reality
. The author mentioned it when explaining Feynman’s theory ‘sum over histories’ about the multiple paths taken by particles interaction at quantum level.I don’t think science was in Borges mind when written this short SF story, but it has a deeply philosophical side as well. One can find lots of meanings reading it. Brilliant.Can be found here: https://archive.org/details/TheGarden...

Ingenious! it's a riddle, a parable, and a philosophical story all rolled into one, that requires to be read more than once. Beautifully written by Borges who really sucks you into his world, and, like always, there is a deeper meaning to things than one first thinks, and themes of time and the infinite are ever present. Dazzling stuff!
بورخس چرا اينجوري ميكنه با من؟! براي روز اول سال انتخابي بسي نامناسب بود، ولي خب دوسش دارم بورخسو... سومين بار بود اين داستانو ميخوندم
I do have the complete short stories of Borges in the household, but had the chance to pick up on that.
Meanwhile I did purchase this little book of short stories by Borges in Japan for reading on my flight back to Los Angeles, and it's an amazing experience, especially when I'm suffering from jet-lag.
"The Book of Sand" is the story for book collectors and those who are fascinated with collections.
Then again, this story could talk to all sort of collectors.
From high literature to detective fiction - it's Borges' world, and I'm happy to enter that planet.
I do not think I had ever read any of Argentinian author Borges' work before picking up the forty-sixth Penguin Modern, The Garden of Forking Paths.
Irby.The stories in this collection are the title story, alongside 'The Book of Sand', 'The Circular Ruins', 'On Exactitude in Science', and 'Death and the Compass'.
I could never quite guess where the stories were going to end up.Whilst I found The Garden of Forking Paths interesting enough to read, and enjoyed some of the quite beguiling descriptions in its pages, it has not sparked an interest within me to pick up any more of Borges' work.
Using tenses to divide time is like making chalk marks on water." Yesterday, it was: "Am I alive and a reality, or am I but a dream?" (Edgar Rice Burroughs).
This web of time--the strands of which approach one another, bifurcate, intersect or ignore each other through the centuries--embraces EVERY possibility."But how to tell a story of "time" being like this?
Well, one needs a master storyteller like Borges and a story like this, "The Garden of Forking Paths" which one has to read in silence, then read again, and re-read, again and again.
“This web of time – the strands of which approach one another, bifurcate, intersect or ignore each other through the centuries – embraces every possibility. We do not exist in most of them. In some you exist and not I, while in others I do, and you do not.”
membaca borges merupakan proses sembahyang. labirin vibes
Borges is a philosopher's writer: He uses literary narratives as a vehicle for expressing the ideas of philosophy and, in particular, epistemology.
The reason why his work is so important is that it places literature more securely onto a knowledge footing.
The human experience is described not just persuasively on its own terms, but within a framework of well-developed theories of truth and knowledge.The Garden of Forking Paths deals with a number of epistemological concepts.
The most prominent is the scientific theory of a multiverse, in which many courses of action occur simultaneously.
Others are the role of intuition and imagination in the decisions we make.
ایده ی داستان عالی بود. اما خود داستان با پایانش جوری رفتار کرده بود که انگار فقط داره یکی از صدهزار آینده ی ممکن رو شرح می ده و اهمیتی بیشتر از یک صدهزارم برای پایان اصلی داستان قائل نشده بود. درسته، زمان حقیقتا یک سیکله و فقط یک سیکل می تونه بی نهایت باشه.نحوه ی روایت داستان هم یه چیزی بین ادگار آلن پو و کافکا بود با این حال مثل اونا تاریک نبود.
Where other authors might feel the burden of having to actually write out the stories, turn them into novels, or a series of novels, and populate them with all kinds of fictive characters (wooden caricatures unless they are ascribed, Sisyphus-like, with arbitrary personalities…), Borges forgoes all that and simply assumes the book is real.
(One could even say that he dares us, the reader, to assume that they are not.) Knowing, like Beckett, that character and setting are always arbitrary, and having a similar disdain for their wanton creation, all is excised but the idea, and thus we can get straight to the heart of the matter.
This is a great little collection, centered around labyrinths. I really adore Borges' writing, it's whimsical and really masterful, and I really enjoyed these little stories. His prose is a lot like a dream - you never know exactly how you got there, but it's still so magical and immersive. Definitely recommend
I thought of a maze of mazes, of a sinuous, ever growing maze which would take in both past and future and would somehow involve the stars.
Really liked all these short stories. I think the eponymous first one is the best, but each of the short stories was interesting and well-written. I love the way Borges writes about time and space, it's amazing.
That dude sure likes labyrinths huh
近期忙碌后终于看完的一本。若是以往，大概会情绪波动很大吧。那些背后的深意，是现实，是虚幻，是理想，是世间。但现在，心脏的存在感却告知着自己，这没什么，只是人间而已。
Exceptional...
An ironic parabole on the workings of time.
I did enjoy this collection of short stories and the common theme of labyrinths/puzzles running through them, although they were very brief, which was a shame.
This was my first exposure to Jorge Luis Borges and I would like to read something more substantial from him.The Garden of Forking Paths – nothing particularly original or special.
3/5The Book of Sand – really short, insubstantial story but an interesting idea.
4/5The Circular Ruins – I enjoyed the esoteric and mysterious nature of this story.
2/5Death and the Compass – started off strongly as a mysterious Jewish mysticism-inspired serial killing, but ended disappointingly and with confusion.
I was a bit torn as to how to rate this work of Borges.
On the one hand it contains the awe inspiring "Tlon, Uqbar, Orbis Tertius" as well as "The Library of Babel", "The Garden of Forking Paths", "The Circular Ruins", and the "The Approach to Al-Mutasim".
On the other hand it suffered from the pedantic overly detailed works that go by the names of "Pierre Menard, Author of the Quixote", "A Survey of the Works of Herbert Quain", and "The Lottery In Babylon".
In the end, the amazingness of those first five works previously mentioned were enough to propel this collection to a 4 star status.
The short story under review occurs in a literary collection called, indeed, Labyrinths, and its image should never be far from your mind.Garden of the Forking Paths is framed as a fictitious personal account by a WW1 German spy, Yu Tsun, discovered in a real history book on the war.
This irony is reflected in Tsun's pledge of friendship to Albert, a man who he's just met, accepted a wondrous gift from, and then immediately kills.What I don't understand is the ending, not of the Borges' story, but of the forking paths.
Казалось бы - я-то куда, этот рассказ комментировать. Но - пустите, я скажу! Бывают такие книжки, которые не надо читать, достаточно прочесть ПРО них, знать, о чём они, какие в них идеи изложены (порой и правда весьма здоровские). Тут идея известна ВСЕМ: время, знаете, ветвится, и в каждой точке мы САМИ выбирает тот вариант реальности, который нам ближе. НО!! рассказ-то всё равно бьёт НАПОВАЛ. Последние две строки - как ослепительная разгадка!Плюс, конечно, ряд фирменных парадоксов вроде того, какое (единственное!) слово нельзя использовать в ребусе, отгадка в котором - в р е м я.
About to cry and moan. After reading that. No reason. Drowning in the flood of tears and regrets. Long to go, but fear to go.
v together collection of stories
博尔赫斯的书是个巨大的迷宫，复杂且无限，没有出口.而我，才刚刚在入口处徘徊.
