https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/98807.Subterranean
I would highly recommend another read form the author, Ice Hunt, which was masterfully done and so enjoyable that I still think about it years later, now THAT was a monster in a creepy space story, this book is strangely similar, sometimes I feel like Rollins recycles whole chunks because they are so good, but still, it’s a bit odd… the only silver lining here is that Ice Hunt was written after Subterranean so Rollins has definitely improved and gained control of his ideas.
Ashley, his main character and "empowered" woman, is driven by the phoned-in motivation of motherhood.
Her son exists as a character only to be put in danger so that tension can be artificially heightened, despite the fact that if she cared so much about the brat, it seems to me she wouldn't have taken him to an outpost in the most hostile environment on Earth in he first place.
This civilization does nothing to stand apart from any other lost people in dozens of better books before.
At no point did I feel the main two characters were in any real danger, even less the kid.
I love James Rollins books, however, Subterranean is not one of my favorites.
It's not bad, I love the whole world below the surface with strange creatures, and of course, the fact that this team that is sent to explore is not the first team sent down, not that they know that.Alas, there is a kid in the story since the mom most definitely didn't want to leave him back with her ex, but he will be safe as the base.
Still, if you like stories with dangerous creatures, then you might want to check this book out.
I grew up hating novels.
As a child, the books I was introduced to (by school) were horribly boring and not relevant to my life at all.
I grew up believing that all novels were boring, and by high school, I cringed at the sight of novels.
I read comic books throughout high school and college, and it wasn’t until I came across Subterranean (on a flight) that I realized people wrote fun books.
So, this is the book, and the author, who got me reading novels and opened my eyes to the possibility of writing them myself (I was a screenwriter at the time).
I made the mistake of asking my dad for a book recommendation and he recommended this.
He has pretty terrible taste in books a lot of the time.
Subterranean is a suspenseful book in some sense.
But every event that happened was obviously setting up the next event.
That makes for a very predictable suspense novel.
You could see the ending of the book from page one.
Oh, this person has claustrophobia ...
I wonder if they are going to get separated somehow, and he is going to be in terrible danger?
a Middle Eastern person ...
Whoopsie, hope I didn't ruin the book for you.
I can't believe that I didn't review this book.
no really, I mean it this time.Fast paced book.
Rollins usually attempts to write strong female characters, sometimes he falls short, sometimes he makes them almost human.
Even the Damsel in Distress (which is a fair and fine role for any character) came across as competent, intelligent, if also held hostage by the villain.
Some people pointed out books that this was like that I have never heard of.
I thought it was like an old book made popular movie with sequels.
And personally I found myself enjoying this book a lot more then Amazonia.
Once again the adventure was great.
And James Rollins does such a good job at crafting a really fun story that I really enjoyed reading.
In this book you follow a wide range of characters.
The main one being that the secondary characters and story was way more interesting for me.
And I just enjoyed reading there story more.
If you are a fan of a great adventure.
You should take a look at James Rollings books.
And I will be reading more books from James Rollings.
Oh dear, where to start?
I could go with witty remarks:It's Jurassic Park!
It's a movie script!
It's a supermarket book and I should have been sitting on a beach with a margarita in one hand.
If you can get past the asinine leaps of logic in literally every paragraph, the action is...well, dumb, which isn't always a bad thing.
Cliffhanger is pretty dumb and I'll fight you to the death if you don't think it's awesome.
This book is way worse than Cliffhanger, but the point is worth making.In summary, it's dumb.
Throw in one or two military assholes and an egotistical commander to add conflict to the story.
End each chapter with a nail-biting, yet totally manufactured sentence of suspense, like: "A gasp escaped her throat as the yetis crept closer." At least one romance between male and female characters should be formed and one member of your cast should have traitorous, ulterior motives.
Remember, in the end, all your main characters survive to accomplish the mission and the only ones that were killed off were never that important to begin with.
Don't add any real cultural or historical content; that would take too many pages.
Subterranean is a solid adventure novel mixed with an archaeological mystery, somewhat similar to Douglas Preston and Lincoln Child's Thunderhead.
Parts of it are a little trite (a team member exploring the story's deep caverns has claustrophobia, of course, leading to manufactured moments of suspense that you see coming a mile away), but it's a fun read if you're willing to just go with it.
Ultimately, I think the job could have been done in fewer pages; by the last 100, I was skimming here and there just to move forward.
I think my favorite part of this trainwreck (after the diamond-softening fungus and the Islamic jihadist who drinks) was Major Michaelson's magical morphing arsenal: every paragraph or so his weapons loadout somehow changes to SOMETHING HE DIDN'T HAVE A MINUTE AGO.
And why on earth would he have sawed the barrel off, thereby ruining the gas tube and making it incapable of firing more than a single shot at a time?
And why doesn't he have any 7.62 ammunition for it?
oh FFS I'm just glad it's finally over and I never have to read it ever again.
What a thrilling, captivating page-turner. Wow, this was a terrific book. A group of scientists led by top archaeologist Ashley Carter are selected to investigate a subterranean labyrinth in Antarctica. Things don't go as planned and the action and excitement never let up. The set up is good, the story is great and the payoff is super. I loved it and am off to pick up my next James Rollins book.
**Spoiler** Subterranean was the last of James Rollins books that I had not read and I suppose it was a so-so experience.
I do love the fast-paced action/adventure that Rollins delivers but I think there was just too much going on in this story.
It is interesting that the research teams discovered another type of environment underneath Antarctica but another “humanoid” species living devoid of light for eons…too much for me.
So although this story delivered all the action I wanted the plot just did not do it for me.
I'm giving it 4 start, but it was my least favorite Rollin's book. So far there wasn't even one I wasn't crazy about, but the heroine in  Subterranean  - Ashley drove me crazy almost till the end of the book. I'm used to the military giving the orders, making plans and etc. Here she was leading with no idea about tactics or training or anything, it was even said she shoots better then the trained for years Seals which was just ridiculous...4 stars, because I liked the end.
When an 80-something year old lady brings a bunch of books into my store, many of which catch my eye or are one I've read before, and points to this book and says, "I really liked that," I'm gonna snag it.Thank you, old lady.Immediately, I began to draw parallels from Subterranean to Jeff Long's The Descent.
Long's book is Horror, in my opinion.
Rollins has written a more contemporary SciFi book.With the exception of WHY the hell that damn kid was allowed to be brought along on an Antarctic exploration, I found the plot excellent, pacing tight, and characters believable.
So this is by my mum's favourite writer--she has all of his books and frequently tells me about them as she's reading them.
When she knew I was looking to read more with an adventure flavour (specifically caves), she gave me some of his.I expected fun and I got it.The book's structure is sound, the pacing is quite good.
Indeed, when the protagonists feel wonder regarding their surroundings and discovery, it leaps off the page, Rollins' enjoyment of the world he's created quite apparent and infectious.Mum has another stack of books for me to read here, and I look forward to delving in; I believe this was Mr. Rollins' first published book and I've no doubt they get even better.
Ovaj puta malo u stilu starog Vernea, 'ajmo malo pod zemlju sretati kojekakva čudesa... :)
Most readers will understand why it's preposterous and silly to imagine that the head of a scientific expedition in the Antarctic, one that is so secret and important that he has the President on the speed dial to get him whatever he wants, who can pay vast sums of money to assemble an A team, can't possibly manage to gather and send in a rescue team in four whole months, and when he does cobble a team, he chooses a claustrophobic biologist, an imprisoned cave spelunker with a chip on his shoulder, our aforementioned anthropologist who also has major authority issues, a major in the Marines whose brother was lost in the cave four months ago, and an Egyptian geologist who is actually a terrorist impersonating a geologist.
And if your one of the classic sci-fi geeks who like HG Wells and Jules Vern, it’s perfect.The story starts off with a scientist name Blakely who is putting together a team to explore a set of caverns deep under the Antarctic.
The book does take off to maybe a slow start, but the fun characters keep you entertained.
Then there’s eventually a underground city along with trouble from all sorts of different things making things worse.The good.
It’s a old story told with a fresh new look and I liked it a lot.The bad.
There’s isn’t much.
I have liked James Rollins books in the past, but this one seemed very juvenile, silly and just not up to his usual standards. I kept thinking that this must have been targeted at a younger audience than he usually writes for. Although many of his novels deal with unusual occurances and supernatural powers, this one just seemed silly. Even the romantic interest in this novel was expressed at almost at a junior high level. If I had never read a James Rollins novel before, I would have no interest in reading another one.
Ewoks undersground being chased by T-rexgators and a sterotypical terrorist. Seriously?
it was my first James Rollins' book i've read and since then he became one of my favourites ;))) it's a killing mix of thriller, mystery and adventure, stir it carefully and enjoy ;)))
Deep cave exploration, alternate evolution, and glow in the dark fungus = good weekend read.
It certainly isn't my usual kind of novel and yet Rollins has a way with words that draws you into this strange and yet somehow remarkably scientific world.
This gives him a huge scope for his imagination to run wild, there are no existing boundaries created by existing evolutionary knowledge.James Rollins also does a fantastic job at building up tension within the novel.
I've never read anything by James Rollins before, but I am certainly interested in looking for more of his works and giving them a try.
A fun enjoyable read. Kind of across between ‘journey to the centre of the earth’ and ‘jurassic park’. It’s quite predictable but funny.
were those oompa-loompas?p49: "...there’s two snow cats just outside to transport us to the fissure."p176: the slack in his rope snapped taut.p244: fumbling through the side pouch of his bag, jason pulled out the little red cherry bomb he'd hidden from prying eyes. "will this work?"
A group of scientists along with military might and the macho Navy SEALS add to this high adventure in the unexplored caves of Antartica.
The team is there to learn about a lost civilization and explore the depths but are unaware that a team went 3 months before them only to be lost.
They are now looking for the lost team and exploring.
It has all the typical personalities set for an adventure, a cholosterophobic biologist, the strong-willed anthrapoligist, an adventure guide for spelunking and resues, your typical fanatic and as mentioned before the macho military men.
Picked this up at the local Costco and thought it would be a good read as I had read a couple of other James Rollins books and enjoyed them.
A good book takes me about a week to finish, which is pretty fast considering I rarely have time to sit down and read with all the other stuff that occupies my day.
This book took me 6 months to finish.
I just couldn't get into it enough to keep the pages turning and I'm the type of person that needs to finish a book before moving on to the next one, whether I like the story or not.
Writing as James Rollins, Jim Czajkowski's first novel follows a tried and true formula much as one would expect from Clive Cussler.
At times I thought I was reading a Cussler adventure :~D except that Subterranean was a bit more of a formula than even that.
I noticed no errors in continuity either.I was left with a feeling that I had rather wasted my time when I could have been watching TV but who am I to judge.
I have yet to finish writing a novel and at least Mr. Czajkowski has done that.
Well, it was a book. I didn't expect more than pulp, but what a collection of hackneyed tropes and weak 'homages'. The premise is interesting enough for an airport-grade adventure yarn, but the characters are incredibly one dimensional and you can predict all the peril half the book before it happens. Once they started bringing out telepathy and 'destiny' it turned from passable entertaining to an 'Well, I've made it this far, I might as well finish it' grudge-read. Glad it was a Kindle Daily Deal purchase.
