https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2799928-the-album
Five families, five (or more) secrets, and someone is killing them slowly.There is a lot of suspense in this book, and Mrs Roberts seems to have had a knack for story-telling that keeps the reader interested.
Her style in this book is in the form of a report written by one of the people who live in The Crescent, and Roberts masterfully uses foreshadowing as an additional tool besides the usual forward narrative.
As the American Agatha Christie, who was actually writing before the British novelist, Roberts succeeds in creating a world full of suspense and intrigue, with a small amount of romance thrown in.
Equal parts suspenseful mystery and sly social satire, The Album is narrated by 28-year-old spinster Louisa Hall, whose selfish mother ended Louisa’s engagement eight years earlier.
How snobbish and old-fashioned, Louisa explains to a police inspector:	 We are rather a repressed lot, I imagine.
We still leave cards when we call after four o’clock….In other words, the Crescent practices twee 19th century manners even though it’s now the Great Depression and the early 1930s.The Album opens with the axe murder of old Mrs. Lancaster, a long-time bedridden invalid who proved demanding and petulant.
در اصل (2.5)بیشتر از جنایی بودن داستانی و طولانی تر از حدی که باید میبود.سرگرم کننده و اگه نویسنده داستان رو طولانی نمیکرد میشد گفت جذاب.
Intriguing scenario. Read it because of that plus I recall hearing of the author as one of the popular classics. It was disappointing due to the sheer number of suspects, schemes, interrelated characters (revealed only as the story unfolds further mudding the storyline), unclear back story connections, and victims. It was just overdone and too confusing to be enjoyed to the fullest extent. I didn't dislike it but am not interested in reading her other works.
Good read, confusing endingOverall I found this to be a pretty good mystery. As it started off it felt kind of Sherlock Holmes-ish with the seemingly "perfect crime" that seemed impossible to solve. I don't want to ruin the ending but I will say that I was somewhat let down. There was so much going on and so many characters to keep up with that I couldn't focus on what was actually happening.
So juxtapose the idea of writing a review for a book where not one murder, but 4 murders take place; all the while Dean Martin and Perry Como are singing some of my favorite Christmas songs.
I think this is now the second, maybe third, book that I've read where the killer takes up an axe and chops the victims up like firewood.Like most of her books, Rinehart gives us a sympathetic character in Louisa Hall.
Louisa is the typical Rinehart heroine.
Now the typical Rinehart heroine doesn't really solve the crime, but she does give the clues that allows the "detective" to do the solving.Once again, I loved the atmosphere that Rinehart builds around her characters.
This was a good mystery with lots of twists and turns. I liked the writing style. The narrator was re-telling the events of the week and when different pieces of information were learned. It jumped around a lot and there was a lot of foreshadowing which got you hooked. I would definitely read another book by this author.
Единственный позитив: автору удалось привязать к сюжету всех героев книги, включая совсем незаметных. Долго жует сопли, делая многообещающие подсказки."Кто бы мог подумать, что старый хрен окажется ключом к происшедшему той ночью..." Никто. Порой лучше жевать, чем говорить.
Mary Roberts Rinehart is still one of the best mystery/thriller writers out there. Does it matter that these books were published in the early twentieth century? No. The mysteries are still good and spooky and the heroine smart and resourceful.
This story is told by "Lou" in bits and pieces as she sees or learns about events. A crazy person with a psychotic heart kills a lot of people once her original plan goes awry. The narrative is deliberately choppy and really builds the suspense.
TerrificOld-fashioned, old speech, old customs, old society.. but still a wonderful and complicated story. Will read this author again for certain.
I love to be surprised by a book! Did not expect to enjoy this story so much! A different style, but worth the effort!
A bit on the long side - and twists and turns just kept coming, probably long after they should've - but still quite enjoyable in the way that I've come to expect from Rinehart's books.
Not a fast read, but worth every minute!
Not my favorite Mary Roberts Rinehart novel, but I still love her work in general.
It's difficult today to imagine a time when privacy was valued and genteel people lived by a code that prohibited "Airing your dirty laundry in public." Rinehart (a militantly modern woman) believed that pride and dignity can be carried too far.
Rinehart's books are unusual for the time in that they never feature a brilliant amateur detective.
And Rinehart had a firm grasp of one fact that many mystery writers overlook.
Murder changes everything.If you're a new-comer to Rinehart, you may be put off by the fact that this Kindle edition opens with some strange-looking portraits and a jumble of text.
Set during prohibition, the narrator is a twenty-seven-year-old spinster.
While the world around her is changing rapidly, the neighborhood she lives in is set in their ways, still clinging to a world that was all but gone.
Every day, every week is exactly the same.
Which is what makes the murder of one of the residents all the more astonishing.
As are the secrets (like the fact that the victim was hording gold) all the more interesting.The internal dialogue in Louisa's (Lou, the narrator) mind meant that we as readers really get to know her, and to see her grow.
I hadn't realized this author was more of a contemporary of Agatha Christie (or, actually, a bit earlier) when I started reading the book, so the style of writing was a bit of a surprise! I've actually already essentially forgotten the ending, but things like this leak out of my head easily. I enjoyed nibbling away at this one each night.
A locked room mystery of sorts. How well do you know your neighbors? How far would you go to preserve appearances? While some weakness in the mystery aspect, some of the characters manage to surprise the reader. A quick read.
BB-IB-$1.99 really liked this book. It had a very involved plot that had me guessing for a long time.I will definitely read more of her books.
At least I think I read it. I had no idea what was going on half the time. Maybe I just wasn't paying attention.
I would have given this book a 4, but the first part of the book was hard to get into.
Circuitous plot!Very interesting storylines. I enjoyed the many twists and turns This book held my interest all the way. A great read.
Let me quote from another reviewer ( She was the forerunner of the "Had I But Known" school -- in fact she may have been the whole school.
Just think of Rinehart as your chatty, slightly batty, Aunt Mary, who turns out to actually know what she's talking about.) Her books were written in the early 1900's and She has 60 to her credit.
This book takes place completely within 5 houses in an area known as the crescent and it will keep you guessing until the final page Enjoy .
I've heard the author described as the American Agatha Christie and she certainly earned that title with her convoluted plot, myriads of suspects and setting.
This is an unusually busy time in my life and I don't think it was the best time for me to tackle this author since I had to read in fits and starts.
I would try her again when I have more leisure and time to read more in one setting.
I got quite confused with the characters and since I read it as an e-book, it was more difficult to sort them out.
Early Bird Book Deal | Interesting characters and not a blindingly obvious solution. | Open Road Media should be deeply embarrassed at how riddled with errors this transcription is. The pacing here is a bit off, as the book kept going longer than seemed necessary and the wrap up and explanation was overly drawn out and dull. But the people and the Crescent were interesting and the red herrings were actually pretty good--I definitely suspected the correct person, but not immediately and not exclusively. I will definitely continue with the author's work.
Really enjoyed reading this book.Really like Ms. Rinehart's style of writing.Liked the idea that it didn't really read like a book written about life 90 years ago, or so.Was only reminded of the time period every once and awhile when short explanations about certain routines, habits, customs, words, etc. were mentioned.However, it was too long for my taste, especially the last several chapters that  attempted to explain/describe who did what and how (very convoluted - one chapter could have been used for this).
Roberts is the master of the "if I had only known" style of mystery writing. This book takes that to a whole new level. I agree with the reviewers who found the mystery very interesting, but the ending confusing and convoluted. There are so many characters! Many of whom are very similar. I do enjoy Roberts' use of low-key humor and insights into human nature.
Rinehart relies heavily on foreshadowing to build and maintain suspense. It's something she is known for, so it has to be expected. However, that technique isn't always satisfying for me, and this book especially mixed in "things we don't know yet" in the narration. That back and forth tended to bug me. So that is part of why the rating isn't higher.
Lots of characters and the style was sometimes difficult to read. Slow but it has a great ending.
