https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/699669.Hanging_Woman_Creek
He has said that he literally "walked the land my characters walk," and from time to time, I find myself researching and even visiting (upon occasion) places described in his books.
This version of Hanging Woman Creek came with a rough map in the front showing the locations of some of the places described in the book.
I especially enjoy the times when L'Amour waxes philosophical.
Such a soliloquy occurs in this book, and I excerpt it here:"A man has to face up to himself sometime or other.
Only you have to feed it to make it grow properly.""A man never starts to get old until he starts to forget his dream.
Another plane ride...I liked that the main character was a bit more ordinary than the usual L'Amour hero. But I wish that Eddie Holt hadn't been killed off. I liked him.
This is another story about the bullies of the west (rustlers and ranchers) picking on the smaller farmers/nesters). The heroes are two young men who just happened to meet up, one white and one black, but make a good combination. They are hired to keep watch on cattle at a Montana camp but it doesn't last long. Their Irish friends are burned out and the bad guys have them in their sights, so they make a run for the nearest town, two or three days away in the dead of winter ... very entertaining.
This is what I have come to expect from a good L'Amour novel. Realistic setting, tight story, strong characters and a plot that gallops along like a bucking bronco. I can't recall other books from the author in first person perspective, so that was different, but it was executed well. I also enjoyed the dialogue in this book. I could "hear" them speak. L'Amour had a knack for that. This is another shorter book, but he packs a lot of story in just 150 pages. I really enjoyed the book.
This was a fun book to listen to while travelling through the western US on a road trip. L'Amour's writing style can keep you awake and engaged, albeit he often reuses certain phrases to the point that we wondered if we'd accidentally gone to a previous chapter.
I expected cowboys and maybe Native Americans, a story set in the United States in the nine-teens century; a Frontierland (at Disneyland) kind of setting.The story begins with the introduction of the main character, Barnabas „Pronto“ Pike.
He supports the Irish settler Philo Farley, while the other people think of him as a thief of land and cattle.
Later, Pike meets Ann Farley, who is the sister of the Irish settler Philo.
It also might refer to the cold personality of Miles City’s ranchers who kill the Irish settler because they think he is stealing their land.
This was my least favorite of L’Amour’s books that I’ve come across. I always have five or four stars to give his works. This one started really shaky. The first 25 or 30 pages were not great. But it had all the classic elements of a L’Amour novel. This one got four starts but just barely.
Louis L'Amour writes so well .... My husband and I enjoyed this 6 hour Audible on our trip this weekend. A thumbs up for both of us!
This setting was a bit further north than most of the Louis L'Amour books I've read, but this has the gutsy characters, the good guys and the bad guys with a little bit of mystery thrown in.
A good vacation read!
Entertaining story with excellent geographic detail of central Montana. The perfect stress buster.
I read most of his books when I was young so now that it's about 40 years later it's fun to be able to listen to them and experience these great westerns once again.
With over a hundred novels and short story collections published I am constantly amazed when I read one of his books and discover a whole new actual story and not just a repetition of something he's done before.Hanging Woman Creek, is yet again an original western story.
Edie teaches Pike the finer arts of boxing which come in handy at the end of the story.
As always with a L'Amour book, good triumphs over evil and there is a happy ending.Pike is an unusual protagonist for L'Amour in that he is not the quiet, reserved gunfighter that we often see.
I thought this was below average compared to Lamour's other books.
Westerns aren't what I'd normally choose to read, but I picked this up out of curiosity and I was happily surprised at how much I enjoyed it.This is the story of Pronto Pike's turning point in life.
There's nothing special about him except that maybe he's a bit more intelligent and thoughtful than average.The best thing about L'Amour's writing is that just when you think you know where the story's going, he throws in a curve.
He makes it totally natural (it's not just thrown in), and in many cases, it seemed, to me, to be more realistic than the average story would be.This was my first Louis L'Amour book, but it won't be my last.
It was not my usual genre and was written some time ago, which showed in the writing style.
It would have been great to hear more about the homesteader and his sister, who end up as main characters to the tale with a minor introduction.
Lacking female characters at all, only two in the whole book, one was crazy and the other rides off into the sunset with the lead man.The historical pieces of the book were the best part.
Train rides, the winding down of the Wild West and ranching life styles.
It has been a while since I last read a good western, and I knew I could not go wrong with Louis L'Amour.
There was an air of Lonesome Dove in the story line, but the narrative is shorter with less about a cattle drive with more character development which made for an engaging read.
There were moments when the visualization evoked by the author placed me squarely in the winter of the Wyoming/Dakota badlands and prairies, which is the real joy of reading the master storytellers and troubadours of the genre.
I know the summer will bring be back to a short list of want-to-reads awaits me.
My favorite line in the book is "About the worst thing a man can do is to let a dream die." The fact that one of these western man thinks this shows just how much people are alike even when they seem to be so different on the surface.
I love reading Louis L'Amour's novels about life as a wandering cowboy.
I also love the idea that a man's name or what he calls himself doesn't matter, how the cowboys judged a man by his actions, not his name or supposed reputation.
Though they certainly respected some men's reputations.
Louis L'Amour always equals a good read.
So this book caught my attention right away. If a book can catch my attention like this one did then its a good book. Eddie is a African man in boxing. Pike is not a good fighter at all. But he fights this winter pretty good. This wasnt just a winter it was a really brutal one. they dont go through it alone they go through this with his sister and she burned there land down. They haunted crazy. They will do anything for there lives. This is a great book to read.
I'm reluctant to compare novels and authors but, . . this one is not as fluent as the other famous cowboy author, Zane Grey. (Who I feel is a better writer even though I've only read one book for each author.) L'Amour is pleasant enough in this novelette to carry along the storyline, even though I couldn't always follow the reasoning of the main character, caught in the evils of the bad guy. No Indians in this story, sad.
Pronto Pike has a winter job in a line cabin for a big cattle outfit, but he doesn't like the way the cattlemen treat small nesters. Especially a genial Irishman in the next valley, one whose beautiful sister has come to live with him.Western - Pronto Pike and his partner Eddie Holt follow the trail of rustlers who are raiding the Bar J Ranch and who are so ruthless that they have no qualms about murdering a woman.
Hanging Woman Creek is easily the best Louis L'Amour book I've read. (I've also read Hondo (meh), The Quick and the Dead (forgettable), and The Californios (OK).) Atmospheric and character-driven, it almost feels like a mildly optimistic Jim Thompson novel. In fact, this book is so good compared to L'Amour's other supermarket newsstand filler, I almost think he didn't really write it.
This is a story about two cowboys who find a job in Montana for a rancher who wants them to work through the winter on a line shack. There are sudden and mysterious things that happen including a house and barn that get burned down to the ground. This is another one of Louis lamours famous books and I would recommend it to some one who likes reading adventure westerns.
An attempt at addressing race relations in the 1800's. May have been groundbreaking in its day, but fell a little flat for me. Again, kept my interest, great story, but a little disappointing in the end.
AwesomeA definite jewel by Mr glamour.. third toE I've read this and and have thoroughly enjoyed it each time. Really makes me wish I could have, lived my life during this time period when life was harsh but wholesome and g
"Pronto" Pike is drifting from one cowboy job to another. He and his partner land a job manning a line camp when he decides that he needs a ranch of his own. Life becomes difficult when he tangles with a band of outlaws.
Pulp reads of the very best kind. Louis L’Amour treats with prejudice and greed well in this one. As usual the west is the setting, a simple pair of men becoming heroes because it is the right thing to do. How much better can a book be?
Needed a shot of western story telling and this was just what the Dr ordered. A fast moving story about a Cowpoke and a friend he finds along the way. A little love story and good vs bad on the trail.
a really good one with one of the best fist fight scenes I've ever read.
Excellent western. Filled with clever plot twists, even some romance,western style. The author again shows his shill with this genre.
