https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/89375.90_Minutes_in_Heaven
After reading the back cover of this book and learning that the story was about a man who had been killed in a horrific car crash, went to heaven and then returned to life 90 minutes later, I had high expectations for a riveting read.
So I was left wanting to believe that heaven was truly as wonderful a place as he conveyed it to be - a most comforting thought in the face of loss and mortality - yet was somewhat convinced by his description that it was a heaven only an Evangelical could dream of and one that I would and could not experience.
Of course, the chemo brain mom purchased the short version of the book.
Shoot.) So.I think this is a lovely book for people of the Christian faith who are dealing with grief or end of life issues.
Comforting, I suppose.At this point, those easily offended and/or those not open to religious debate may now leave the review.Seriously.
(GOD BLESS YOU, Chemo Brain!) Look, I cannot get past the guy saying he was dead for 90 minutes.90 MINUTES!I work with people who have been "dead" for three minutes and can't wipe their butt, let alone recall being dead and write a book about it!
Well, hmmmm, not real sure what to say about this book because I don't want to be negative but I was definitely disappointed. I guess I expected more of the book to be about the heaven experience, not all about the recovery process. I kind of felt like I picked up a book on rehabilitation after a severe accident. There were parts that were interesting, and I did take some powerful messages from it here and there, but for the most part it was just repetitive and kind of dragged on.
Instead, most of them have to do with a relational reality that is both present and coming in Jesus.Jesus only spoke of the afterlife three brief times, yet modern evangelical Christianity plays the fear and death card up front, as if it's what Jesus talked about all the time, as if the whole point of Christianity is where you go when you die.
Is death and the afterlife the point of Christianity biblically?
. ."Most of this book describes not Piper's "90 minutes in heaven" but pain, depression, recovery, and his present mission to tell his story.
This book has received wonderful reviews but I had to force myself to finish it. Normally I love stories about near death experiences but I found this story poorly written and very repetitive. The author is a Southern Baptist minister and it appears that the music played in heaven is Christian. So if you're of another faith . . . forget it! Oops, sorry.
Piper wasn't comfortable letting people do things for him, but throughout his recovery his friends, family, and parishioners were constantly visiting and wanting to help.
On seeing this, the old man literally got in Piper's face and rebuked him for not letting his Christian brothers and sisters minister to him.
In the end I felt that with all the talk about reassurance of the reality of heaven Piper was pretty much enforcing the common assumption of our culture that justification is by death, not by grace through faith in the death and resurrection of Jesus.And what about the "90 Minutes in Heaven".
As for Piper's desire to assure people of the existence of heaven, I'm reminded of Jesus' parable of the rich man and Lazarus.
This book probably doesn't deserve the two stars that I gave it, and some people may be angry that I didn't rate it higher.
Bottom line: great message, especially if you are a devout Christian or are a Christian and having some doubts about the afterlife, however, sometimes it was very repetitive and sophomoric writing.
Don't get me wrong, there were things in this book that struck a chord with me and that at times gave me chills or brought me to tears, but I have read much more descriptive and eloquent delivery of a life story from people whose second language is English.
Of course the answer to that is that if God chose to bring this man back God could also deliver him from brain damage.I will simply suggest that you try to read the book with an open mind.Of course some will assume that the book is false and that the story is simply a scam.
Whichever way you go as noted try to keep an open mind.Now I do see one problem with the book and I'd like to give a heads up about it.
This book can be encouraging and I'd say try it yourself and see what you think.
I believe that his background in religion made this story very biased based on his religious beliefs.
I was disappointed that he denounced other NDE's he has heard from other people over the years by saying they were too "rehearsed", when his own experience sounded as if it was pulled from scripture.
It is quite arrogant of him to say he knows what he experienced was "real", not like anyone else's story.
This is such a personal and intimate experience for any individual who have had a Near Death Experience (NDE).
Everyone's story is "real" to them and should be accepted as such.
Well in 90 Minutes in Heaven: A True Story of Death and Life written by Don Piper we find the story of Don Piper who died in a car accident, went to heaven, and came back to earth.
While he laid in the hospital bed he was very depressed and mad about why he came back to earth to feel all the pain.
The next morning he was determined to keep on living and realized that God had a purpose for him in coming back to earth.
As I read this book I did my best to empathize with its author. I am very glad that he was able to learn lessons from his experience and allow God to bring Good from all the pain he had to suffer, for indeed, it sounds like he suffered a lot. That he has helped so many people since and his tragedy inspired so much prayer seem to be irrefutable and wonderful things.What I'm wondering is, why are these books so popular? What draws people to them? More to the point, ‘Why am  I  reading books on lif
I am very glad that he was able to learn lessons from his experience and allow God to bring Good from all the pain he had to suffer, for indeed, it sounds like he suffered a lot.
That he has helped so many people since and his tragedy inspired so much prayer seem to be irrefutable and wonderful things.What I'm wondering is, why are these books so popular?
However, if this experience inspired so many to pray for him and helped him endure all the pain he had to go through—and is still living with (which seems to be akin to what St. John of the Cross called the Purgative Way)—then it would seem to be good fruit from a good tree.
90 Minutes in Heaven was a fantastic book!
I loved it!
It kept me interested throughout the whole thing.
If you like books that touch your heart this book is for you.
Also, if you've ever wondered what heaven is like, this is also for you.
What made me want to read this book is the recent passing of a close family member.
In the book, Don Piper gets in a car crash and is pronounced dead.
He is welcomed to Heaven and spends 90 minutes there.
It shows how amazing things the Lord can do for us.
This book wasn't what I expected. One chapter describing a horrific accident, 2 chapters about a visit to heaven followed by several chapters describing a grueling recovery, rehabilitation and fight with depression, then a few chapters of personal back patting about how much the authors experience has helped others. Not exactly the inspiration someone suffering a loss would need. I read this book because I have a friend grieving the loss of her son and I thought perhaps this book might help her, I won't be passing it on because I think it would only depress her further.
When I saw the movie version of this book, I was emotionally moved and found hope in the story.
Now that I've read the book, I have found the same hope in its pages that I saw on the screen.
What is for me to decide is if I will be touched by Reverend Piper's ministry.There is hope to be found in his story.
Not only that Heaven is a real place, but also that God desires to have a personal relationship with each of us.
May they find hope and a message from God that their hearts need to hear.I was not compensated for my honest review.
The book was written by Don Piper with the help of an established writer.
The other aspect of the book that I am not sure whether I liked or disliked, was the fact that I was under the assumption that the book was going to be almost entirely about the heavenly experience.
Instead, there was ONE chapter about the experience, and about 19 other chapters talking about the pain of recovery (mostly the same thing over and over again).
In all, I found the book redundant and boring, but the thought of an afterlife seems mildly interesting and the one chapter describing it is really the only redeeming quality of this book.
**spoiler** reveals some of what’s in the book.The subject of this book had help with the writing.
I don’t know if it was an effort to ‘pad’ the book and create more pages or to drive home certain points Don Piper wanted to make.
He struggled to learn what the mission God wanted him to accomplish by ‘sending him back’.
That’s how life is.Human nature has a tendency to try to reconstruct old ways and pick up where we left off.
If we are wise, we won’t continue to go back to the way things were (we can’t anyway).
Believers (like myself) will find this will find this inspirational.
Non-believers, don’t waste your time because you’re only going to complain about it.
Although I found the story inspirational, I think the title of the book is a little misleading.
This was only a small portion of the overall book.
The majority of the book described the incredibly horrible accident that led to his visit to the “pearly gates” and even more so of his painful recovery (both mentally and physically) experience.
Although he now knows why God sent him back, the recovery process was full of pain, suffering, and anguish.
a good book that gives you chills while reading
Red Dot Book Review— By: Hannah Stillson90 Minutes in Heaven By: Don PiperDon Piper, a local pastor in Texas, gets pushed to his limits as he realizes the difference between self-pity and hope.
Through what seems to be the toughest year of Don's life, Don learns how to hold onto hope and not put a negative image on his mind.Throughout the book, many people say that surgeries are what saved Don's life, but I think that it was all of the prayers and support that made Don become a walking miracle.I would totally suggest this true story about death and life and how to hold on to what is important.
Instead, there's some description about what Piper saw and experienced in heaven (and all of it is wonderful) but this book is mostly about his accident and recovery--in vivid detail.
But I'm glad I continued, because I realize now that every bit of information about Piper's accident, pain, recovery, struggle with depression, and finding new purpose again is vital to understanding why we are here on earth when we yearn to be in heaven.
Although I initially wanted him to gloss over the more difficult parts of his story, I'm so glad he didn't.
I think the author did a great job in describing a very difficult personal experience and how God used him to help others dealing with issues in life to bring them closer to God. I can only imagine how difficult it was for him to write this book.
I think people who expected the entire book to be about his 90 minutes in heaven were disappointed.
If you read this book with an open mind and no expectations, I think you'll get a lot out of it.
Don Piper's message is to relate how God used him to help others...not to convince anyone of his experience.
These are the kinds of books that are so incredibly difficult to review because each reading experience will differ so much based on your background and beliefs. As a Christian, these books make me a little bit wary. I find them preachy and polarizing instead of encouraging, but if someone who reads this is uplifted or inspired by it, that is wonderful. This is just not my cup of tea.
This book is very sad, but also inspirational. You read about the torture the man must go through in recoverying from his crash, but it's inspirational because of the experience he had with God. Great book.
I really enjoyed the story and the style it was written. I also really enjoyed the fact that after his recovery, Don Piper was able to minister to many others going through similar issues. Did Piper really spend 90 minutes in Heaven? Only God knows.
The chapter on his actual time in heaven was short and I was expecting more and wanted to hear more.
But it was also interesting to me to hear his struggle all through his recovery of why did this happen and why was I sent back and then ultimately him discovering his purpose in helping others through tough times.
No matter if you are a "believer" or not this man has lead an amazing life amongst all the pain and suffering he has had to endure.
Even if I don't agree with all of his theology his trying to be compassionate to others who are suffering was inspiring to me and someone I would want to emulate.
Have you ever thought of one of the most frequent questions in the world such as, what happens when you die? Well within one book this incredible survivalist that has been to Heaven and back was able to exemplify and describe heaven in just 205 pages. This amazing book really helps improve your faith and has changed many lives, including my own. Through the imagery and tone 90 Minutes in Heaven has shocked and stunned many readers. 90 Minutes in Heaven written by Don Piper takes you through the
This amazing book really helps improve your faith and has changed many lives, including my own.
Don Piper really makes many of his readers more faithful and helps his readers and believers become more comfortable with the struggle of religion.
Although the book has changed my life in many ways, I believe that after about 3 quarters of the book I got very bored.
I do believe Don Piper and do not have any doubts that he had been to heaven and back.
But in the end, I was so disappointed by the fact that the author dedicated 1 out of 18 chapters to his time in Heaven, and left me wanting So. Much More!
More than him telling me that the colors in Heaven were too amazing to really describe because he couldn't do them justice and I wouldn't understand.
Or that the smells in Heaven are too delightful to really describe because he couldn't do them justice and I wouldn't understand.
Or that the sounds of Heaven were too unbelievably beautiful to really describe because he couldn't do them justice and I wouldn't understand.
I gave this book a five because its my favorite book and is a very interesting story about a guy that was actually living.
I just got done with 90 minutes in heaven and now is currently my all time favorite book.
The book 90 minutes in heaven is about middle aged guy that is going to go to his friends church to preach for him.
His friend then came to the car scene and was praying for him.
90 minutes in heaven is a book or scene that is real and has actually happened in real life.
I to was disappointed that there was only one chapter on his visit to heaven.
My favorite part of the book was when he talked about letting others help you when you need it.
So when he explained the shame and guilt he was feeling about not letting people help I appreciated that.
Quoted by the author "Trying to be strong and refuse help felt like he had cheated his friends the opportunity to strengthen him" I loved when he started to realize that, and let a friend get him a strawberry shake.
What a positive way to help heal yourself.
At first I was skeptical of the book but when I met the author last summer, I knew I had to read it.
Second, he spends only two chapters talking about his actual experience in Heaven.
The rest of the book deals with his recovery from the horrific car accident and how his experience in Heaven impacted his attitude toward his recovery.
As Don said last summer and as this book intimates, you really do want to go there.
Are you sure you are going?
If you aren’t sure, do something about it.
