https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/30304221-swimming-lessons
“It’s difficult to live with both hope and grief.” I didn't really know what to expect when going into Swimming Lessons. I haven't read the author's previous work - Our Endless Numbered Days - and I couldn't decide from the synopsis whether I was going to get myself into another thriller spawned by the Gone Girl craze, or a quiet contemporary like, say, Everything I Never Told You. I can say confidently now that it's more the latter.Swimming Lessons is a character-driven novel about a family, a
I haven't read the author's previous work - Our Endless Numbered Days - and I couldn't decide from the synopsis whether I was going to get myself into another thriller spawned by the Gone Girl craze, or a quiet contemporary like, say, Everything I Never Told You. I can say confidently now that it's more the latter.Swimming Lessons is a character-driven novel about a family, a love, a marriage, and how hope can be the worst thing sometimes.
Here, the hope of Gil Coleman and his daughters, Nan and Flora, has haunted the family for twelve years, ever since Ingrid Coleman (Gil's wife and the girls' mother) disappeared and was never found.
........There is a charming 'BOY-meets-GIRL' - ( 1976), creative heartwarming scene in the beginning -- a love affair between Gil Colman ( Professor --later he becomes a famous author), and Ingrid....( student -- later becomes his wife for 16 years and mother of Nan and Flora, who is 5 1/2 years younger than her sister).
The other part of the story --are letters from Ingrid that she wrote to Gil - stashed away in books - hidden -expressing her deepest thoughts - before she disappeared -about her unhappy marriage -- the mishaps - the decline - his infidelity - his selfishness -and his aloofness from the family as both a husband and father.
An interesting premise though and it is through these letters that we learn the story of Ingrid and Gil. This was also my favorite part and Ingrid is the most fleshed out character in the book.This book was intriguing and frustrating, I really wanted to know what had happened to Ingrid.
Different, somewhat quirky, Gil though easy to feel sorry for, I didn't much like after reading some of the letters.
Hooked me though, enjoyed reading this and so, glad this is not my family.ARC from Netgalley.Release date: February 7th by Tin House books.
Because Flora - one of the main characters of this book and the focus of most chapters - is such an Ernie and her poor older sister had to take on the role of Bert when their mother disappeared.
The story is told both in the present when Gil had an accident and his two daughters come to look after him and in the past through a series of letters that their mother Ingrid left for her husband to find in different books all over the house.
It is a pretty great book, but in the end, I couldn't ignore my emotional response to it.
"Swimming lessons" by Claire Fuller tells the story of the marriage between the literary proffesor Gil Coleman and the 20-year-younger student Ingrid. The novel tells the story of mother and daughter in two stories in different times. Ingrid's story is told by Ingrid herself in a letter form, which she hides in His Library. A family history and a nice piece of literature. The end unfortunately disappointed me, here I would have at least a clear attitude wished.PS: Also worth mentioning is the cover with yellow and waves simple and very beautiful to the original title.
Mostly, as the novel went on, it made me angry on Ingrid's behalf.
Really angry.
Both at her for not taking charge of her life and angry at every single other character for betraying her in some way.
All the characters were also either grossly unlikeable or one-dimensional.
I kept hoping Flora's character would turn around and change, but she doesn't, and I kept hoping the letters or the fish or something would play out a bit more at the end.
Ultimately, the ending was unsatisfying -- I felt like the whole book was waiting and I was still left questioning and wanting and frustrated.
But it is Ingrid, writing their life story in sequalled letters, hidden in his thousands of books he hoarded over the years, who confronted him with his own god-worship of himself.
Like everyone else in life, they were defined and felt safe in the lifestyle that was created by the egocentric, narcissistic husband and father.
Nan acted as Ingrid's alter ego and forced reality onto imagination for her sister Flora.
Every time I wanted to put this book down, I felt like failing two young women in their quest for escape.
"Gil...This is what happened–the facts, the reality. I've always found that reality is so much more conventional than imagination. And over the years I've imagined far too many things..."–IngridThis is such a beautifully, heartbreaking book! It's also cathartic and hopeful. If I had known the premise of the book, I more than likely wouldn't have been too inclined to read it. Ingrid's letters to her husband kept me turning pages until the very end. What a dear, dear woman.I won't spoil this revi
I've always found that reality is so much more conventional than imagination.
If I had known the premise of the book, I more than likely wouldn't have been too inclined to read it.
What a dear, dear woman.I won't spoil this review with too many plot details, but the gist of it revolves around Ingrid's account of her marriage to her famous writer husband, Gil. She writes a series of letters and places them in corresponding books from her husband's personal library to be found at some point in the future.
So glad to have read something like this.
5 Stars - Oh my, I loved this book. Didn't want it to end.
Each letter also includes the name of the book the wife placed it in, so of course I was stopping to think of shared themes and hidden messages in the book pick when it was a book I knew.
I think I would have tried to bring more of that into the novel or just ended it differently, as it seemed out of place.On a personal note, I recently purchased books from the Dorothy Project, and one of the books was Who Was Changed and Who Was Dead by Barbara Comyns.
So there it was, on my shelf, and then the mother in this novel places a letter inside the very same title!
So of course that was the next book I read!
Dull, undeveloped cookie-cutter characters, boring plot, poorly paced, and lacks tension. It was very readable, somehow, yet I could've stopped at any point without wondering what happened next. Disappointingly mediocre.
A memory about fish and chips is left in a copy of Goodbye, Mr. Chips: To You, Mr. ChipsHe has collected books almost to the point of madness, noting what readers have written or drawn in the margins and the scraps of paper or cards or napkins people have left as bookmarks.Chapters switch between Ingrid’s first-person account of their life together and the current situation with people worrying about Gil and gossiping about the past and tripping over an inordinate number of books in the house.
Heavy in the sense of the plot, the characters, the grief they were facing due to the fact that the mother went missing and that there's been no closure for years.
The only form of sense we have of the mother is through a series of letters she's left behind in different books for her husband.
It's a character driven story and Claire Fuller really delves into the psyche of the family and the trauma they faced due to the missing mother, the hope that never wavered and has kept them somewhat going, but never really finding any closure since they held on to the belief that the mother would return.
The writing was good and moved well, but it was smoke and mirrors disguising the fact that the book was pointless.Basically, the book alternates chapters between the present, in which daughter Flora comes home to care for sick/aging father Gil, and past, which tells the story of Ingrid (Flora's mother) and Gil's relationship (told through letters, which is usually, and is here, a lazy, flat, and overly-cute way to tell a narrative).
Ingrid disappears on a swim when the children are young and this is supposed to be an underlying mystery.(view spoiler)[It's laid on thick throughout the book (and written on the dust jacket) that we are supposed to think that Ingrid and Gil's relationship is some grand and tragic and passionate love story.
"Writing does not exist unless there is someone to read it, and each reader will take something different from a novel, from a chapter, from a line. It is true that no two people read the same book; everyone takes something different from what they have read. One thing that is certain, however, is that beautiful writing is beautiful writing.Swimming Lessons opens with Flora, dressing hurriedly while her boyfriend watches on, having received word from her older sister, Nan, that her father is in
Worried for his state, Nan and Flora assemble in the house where they grew up, an old swimming pavilion, where the ghosts of the past lie between the pages of books that have been piled high in every room by their grieving father.
In the interposed chapters, we learn about Ingrid's life with Gil and her passing into motherhood; her young, naive infatuation with Gil; her departure from her old life and her movement into Gil's world, one humming with his desire for a big family and a house full of books and words.
I sat for a while after finishing this, just holding it; I want everyone to read this book and love it as much as I do.At the start of the novel Gil, an elderly man, is looking through some second hand books when he sees a woman out in the rain.
From this point on alternate chapters are narrated by two main characters; daughter, Flora, who goes home with her sister, Nan, to care for their father, and the second, Ingrid, who speaks to the reader through old letters written to Gil, that's she's left behind in books for him to find.Although we only hear from Ingrid through the letters she writes, she was such a vivid character.
This was a good read but it wasn't quite what I was expecting.
The whole story focuses on that mystery but predominantly this book is about people and different relationships.
The book is also interesting because there are quite a few gaps in the story, Claire Fuller leaves things quite open-ended so the reader has to fill in the gaps.
*I received a copy from NetGalley in exchange for an honest review.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~"Writing does not exist unless there is someone to read it, and each reader will take something different from a novel, from a chapter, from a line."
I got to read an advance copy through Book of the Month Club. What a fabulous book! One of the best I've read in a long time. Very, very well written. Beautiful, creative language and phrasing. The author lets readers use their brains, instead of spelling everything out for them. The reader must pause and think from time to time, which I appreciate. The story is compelling and brilliantly told. I couldn't put the book down. So many surprises. I'm so thrilled that I read it! Looking forward to more from this author.
This is an absolute favourite read this year and if you are someone who has time for very few books, make sure you add it to the list.What to expect?- engaging and suspenseful plot- excellent writing- occasional symbolisms- detailed character sketches- a bit of sarcasm- clever structure that alternates between past and present- LOTS of scenes that bibliophiles love.
And passages about books, doodles in books etc.I smiled, cried and was often shocked by the reveals in the plot.
To read a detailed review, visit http://www.thebooksatchel.com/swimmin...
Much thanks to the author and Fig Tree Books for a copy of the book.
Swimming Lessons is an evocative, thought-provoking novel that begins with an intriguing mystery, evolving into melancholy as the events of Ingrid's marriage, the wife of Gil and mother of two young girls who disappeared 12 years before, are revealed.
The novel begins with Gil inside a second hand bookstore, having found a scrap of paper within a books' pages, moving closer to the window to try and read it.
Swimming Lessons takes you on a journey through a bad marriage. A professor, Gil, and his student, Ingrid, marry for all the wrong reasons. What’s beautiful about this book is the letters Ingrid writes to her husband, but never gives to him. Instead she hides them throughout the house amongst his over abundant book collection. We get to read these beautifully written letters as the book progresses and find out about Gil’s infidelities and Ingrid’s disappearance. 3.5 stars rounded up to 4 as the prose is lovely.
Yes, there was a mysterious story-line, but the heart of the narrative dwelt on more familial and emotional topics and a lot of what occurred were outside of this genre's usual confines.What was delivered far surpassed my expectations, making this a top contender for favourite read of the year.
Perhaps it is too soon in the year to make this proclamation, but the immediate emotional impact this book delivered, and the feelings that continue to haunt me after I have closed the final page, tell me otherwise.
The sheer quantity of books mentioned, throughout this, may also have had something to do with my affinity with it!
During the couples years together, Ingrid writes letters to Gil about how she is feeling about motherhood, their marriage, and what she discovers about him, but instead of giving him the letters she hides them in his books.
He said, "Without readers there is no point in books, and therefore they are as important as the author, perhaps more important." Ingrid gave up her hopes and dreams and struggled with marriage and being a mother and Gil's lack of success as a writer, husband and father made for a heartbreaking story.Author Claire Fuller delves into love, a dysfunctional marriage, and contemplates the value of truth and living with unrealistic hope.
Well, yeah, but strange before that also.Nan: Older daughter - caretaker of the family because she has to be but other than that, nothing.Richard: Flora's boyfriend, who should run for the hills.Jonathan - Gil's friend and a decent character.
(hide spoiler)]Comments: A bit A.J. Fikry-ish in that Ingrid leaves letters detailing her unhappy life with Gil stuck in his books.
And (view spoiler)[the letters mostly go undiscovered.
(hide spoiler)]The book reeks with symbolism - water/fish/swimming - any subtlety absent.I truly don't understand why people like to read about the dissolution of a marriage and family, even if the writing shines.Recommend: I just can't.
But here is a nicely edited* version thanks to the good folks at the ABA who used it (after cleaning up the messy stilted language) for February's Indie Next flyer:“With Swimming Lessons, Claire Fuller confirms her place as a writer of exceptional insight and warmth.
A wonderful follow-up to Our Endless Numbered Days that explores similar themes through an entirely different story, Swimming Lessons will be a great book for fans of Fuller’s first novel and will bring her new fans as well."It still doesn't say much, but seriously, if nothing else, I hope you get the point: go read this book when it comes out next month, it is a great read.
I had a choice of five books, with brief descriptions of the plot, and I selected Swimming Lessons based on the description.
It sounded like a wonderful whimsical journey in time - a woman communicating to her husband across time through letters hidden around the house.What it turned out to be is a trope-filled run-of-the-mill bland fiction.
There is no communication across time, there is just your typical fiction story told from two different points of view and alternating then/now/then/now chapters.
The plot drags along, the twists that are supposed to keep it alive can be seen from miles away, and I'm truly disappointed in my Book of the Month pick.
I very much enjoyed Fuller's first novel, Our Endless Numbered Days, and was very much looking forward to her second effort, Swimming Lessons.
The plot very much appealed to me, and it was compelling from the outset.
Each of the backstories which Fuller has created for her characters are just as vivid as their present; there is a wonderful sense of realism here.
The structure perfectly matches the plot, and the presence of the landscape is exquisite; it is always there, affecting the characters and, in part, being affected by them.
There is so much depth within Swimming Lessons, and so much to adore.
I preferred Ingrid’s first-person voice to the third-person material, and wasn’t fond of daughters Nan and Flora; Gil, though hopelessly flawed, is a wonderful character.Ultimately, it seems to me that this is a novel about being fundamentally unsuited to or unable to adapt to the roles life requires of us – husband, mother, etc.
Another theme is how there can be different memories or interpretations of the same events, even within a relatively small family.The novel is particularly strong on atmosphere, reminding me of Lucy Wood’s Weathering, Iris Murdoch’s The Sea, The Sea, and Diane Setterfield’s The Thirteenth Tale.
I’ll have to go back and read her first novel as well.More favorite lines:Gil: “Secret truths are the lifeblood of a writer.
Ingrid has written multiple secret letters to her husband which she hides in some of the many books he has collected instead of facing him directly with troubles of their marriage.
Ingrid chooses each book wisely.
And then she disappears.
The easter eggs included by the author after revealing each letter was a bonus and so clever.
In fact, I liked the letters even better than the surrounding story which is also very good.
I got caught up in the mystery of Ingrid’s disappearance, the foreshadowings of what was to come and the character perspectives.
Thanks to Tin House Books for providing an ARC.
Στα θετικά η γραφή της Fuller, θέλω πλέον σίγουρα να διαβάσω το - κατά κοινή ομολογία - καλύτερο "Our endless numbered days", πιστεύω πως η πρόζα της είναι πάρα πολύ to the point, δίχως ούτε μία λέξη περιττή και με καλό ρυθμό. Όμως το τέλος του βιβλίου με άφησε αδιάφορη, νομίζω πως τελικά για κάποιο λόγο ποτέ δεν μου κέντρισε ιδιαίτερα πολύ το ενδιαφέρον η πλοκή και η εξέλιξη αυτής, μάλλον επειδή την είχα προβλέψει από την αρχή ακόμα, όχι πως έχει ιδιαίτερη σημασία αυτό. Στην πραγματικότητα είμαι κάπου στο 3.5/5.
