https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2021768.The_Greatest
I must admit though it slows down in the middle, understandably as Ali talks about his 3 year hiatus from boxing and gets fairly political which I didn't find enormously interesting as that's been fairly well documented.
The rumble in the jungle fight especially is well documented and Ali talks about his training regime and what sets him apart which for any aspiring boxer (me?) was like reading gold and VERY inspirational.
Anyway, Archie moore writes Ali a letter (‘Ali was his former student) before his fight with foreman basically telling him that he will get killed – he’s being very serious.
There was a time when Muhammad Ali was one of the most recognizable figures on the planet.He may not
Yes many people did not agree with him and they has their own reason for that but how can anyone not admire a man who sticks to his principle.The book starts out surprisingly with Muhammad Ali being taken back to his dressing room after one of his few defeats.
You are not a Black man they can't control, but a Black Muslim"imagine thee courage of Black people standing up for their rights in the south the home of the KKK, now all the Islam phobia that is ripe in the world today.
I read this book when it first came out and believed every word of it. Years later, Ali acknowledged that others dictated some of the stories in it for political and promotional reasons, and that the stories were simply untrue.The book is readable enough and some of the insights seem genuine enough. Later books, especially King of the World, by David Remnick, do Ali and the reader more justice.
I very much enjoyed this book. Not only did it give me the insights into Ali's thought processes both in and out of the ring, but I was also surprised at the insights offered on the "race war". It was nice to get a new perspective on the situation in those days and it definitely challenged some of my own preconceived notions.
I won this book from Goodreads. I loved this book. That is not to say that The Greatest is the greatest book but it brought me back to my youth. I grew up watching Ali and he was one of the most remarkable figures of our time or any time. To relive his life through his eyes was a great read for me.
My copy was a gift and was a paperback. Given as "joke" gift in the late 1970's. I won't explain. Did I ever read it? I can only say maybe but it was on my shelf for a while anyway. My 900th book added to the "read" list. Date read is a guess...
الحمدرب العالمينقصة حياة محمد على كما أملاها.
I mourn his death even more now
I got through 300 pages and decided I just cannot continue.
I feel guilty for not finishing it, but I just cannot do it.
Once I got to the transcription of the conversation with Joe Fraizer I had to call it quits, it couldn't hold my interest.
I have a lot of conflicted feelings about not finishing the book, but it might take me weeks more and I would resent reading it.
However, the way it is told couldn't hold my attention to the end, it seemed to move a bit slow for me.
Let me preface by saying I have watched almost all of his pro fights, including the Cassius Clay period.
So I wasn't surprised by anything in the book.I don't think hardcore boxing fans will find much new info here.
However, if you don't understand the significance of Ali in history then this is a good book.The period covers his loss of the title, not in the ring , but by the courts.The book includes his losses to Frazier and Norton, and his victory over Foreman which won the heavy weight crown for the second time.You may not find everything you want here though.
The book races forward to the Foreman fight I suppose to keep the book from being too long.There is another Ali book out there.
محمد علي كلاي، منذ اللحظة الأولى التي ترى فيها وجهه وتسمع أسمه تجد شىء يجذبك إليه ويربطك به، لا تعلم
So much of this is gold. The mindset stuff, the philosophy of winning and losing, the work that goes into being the champ, the raw power of the writing itself. The audio book is mint.There's plenty of bullshit too, but totally worth it.
If you're feeling down in the dumps, this is the perfect pill for you. I almost started jogging for miles inspired by it. And that's just skimming the surface. Shows you the hatred the whites had for the black back in the day poignantly.
1999
i almost flunked outta Howard reading this.
I know I read this before, but I don't think I would recommend it to anyone.
A must read for any boxing fan!!!!
I am a big fan of ALI and I loved this book, It was very open and matter of fact about his life.I have to say it was one of better sports book I have read.
En otrolig berättelse om en otrolig människa. Denna mannen levde verkligen för boxningen på den tiden då han var aktiv.Allt han beskriver; sina tankar, hur han tränade, ja allt - galet!
Muhammad Ali's autobiography: very inspiring and moving!!
the passages regarding his physical and mental preparation for fights are amongst the best I've read on getting into the mind of a fighter
The "Louisville Lip" tells his story (as of 1975). So entertaining! I loved it.
ALI! ALI! BOMAYE! ALI! ALI! BOMAYE!নতুন বইয়ের দোকানের চেয়ে পুরোনো বইয়ের দোকানই আমাকে বেশি টানে,তাতে করে যেমন পকেটের পয়সা বাঁচে( এবং সেই বেঁচে যাওয়া পয়সা দিয়ে আরো কিছু বই কেনা যায়), আর পরায়ই এমনসব জিনিস খুঁজে পাওয়া যায় যেগুলো সংগরহ করে রেখে দিলেও মনের শানতি।নীলকষেতের এক পুরোনো বইয়ের দোকানে এই বই দেখে আর দেরি করিনি,ঝটপট বাগিয়ে নিয়েছিলাম। বলা যায় পয়সা পুরোটা উসুল হয়েছে।বইটি পড়ে আলি'র জীবনকে মুটামুটি তিনভাগে ভাগ করা যায়, পরথমতঃ মুষটিযুদধে মুহমমদ আলি'র কযারিয়ার গড়ে উঠা থেকে শুরু করে ভিয়েতনাম যুদধে ন

After listening to this book, it was clear that he did not like white people.
“I don’t want to try to eat with them or sleep with them.” “I know whites and blacks cannot get along; this is nature.” “Black people should marry their own women,” Ali declaimed.
“A black man should be killed if he’s messing with a white woman,” he said.
And it was the same for a white man making a pass at a black woman.
“We’ll kill anybody who tries to mess around with our women.” But suppose the black woman wanted to be with the white man, the interviewer asked.
The pain is still fresh - pain of deliberate torture of black folks, of the way he was treated by the courts when he was a legitimate conscientious objector to the Vietnam War, of the physical beatings in and out of the ring, of the tough decisions to follow his faith even when it caused his exile from boxing and drove cracks between he and his first wife.
He wants to explain his feelings about the War in Vietnam, about Christianity and Islam, about growing up in Louisville during segregation, about everything.There were a few moments in the beginning whether the flashing back from "current" events to past or future was confusing.
I'm such a big fan of sports -not so much of boxing but nevertheless, the fighting spirit, the determination, the aggression that comes with wanting to be the best and the hard work behind the careers and also the struggles behind the lives of people like Muhammad Ali inspires, motivates and challenges me.
I'm forever grateful for people like him that didn't take their status for granted, people who always craved to be more for their community, people who fought for their beliefs and rights.
He spends significant time on Civil Right issues.I have to wonder if some of the stories are strictly true (Ali did seem to have his own unique take on things), but some were apparently transcribed from cassette tapes he made in preparation for this autobiography, so he obviously made an effort to represent the views of others as accurately as he could.
I have to say, this book has revived an interest in my researching and in a few cases, reliving history of Mohammed Ali. Check out "15 rounds with Ali" by Billy Crystal.
Or the eulogy that was given (also by Billy Crystal) at Ali's memorial service in 2016.
3 stars. Highly entertaining, but the supposed factuality of it should be taken with a big grain of salt. Ali's voice comes through the words (Dion Graham's audiobook narration is also quite a good mimic), and I was laughing throughout at his humor, ringside taunts, and poetry. What a unique and headstrong individual!Ali or co-writer Richard Durham does something very interesting with the structure of the book at one point that I haven't seen before. To tell the story of his first marriage, rath
Ali's voice comes through the words (Dion Graham's audiobook narration is also quite a good mimic), and I was laughing throughout at his humor, ringside taunts, and poetry.
To tell the story of his first marriage, rather than narrate it in a linear way he and his ex-wife meet twenty years later for coffee and discuss the joys and tribulations of their former relationship.
This allows each of them to relate it in the way they remember it according to their own differing perceptions.
The differences are intriguing and it's touching how added maturity allows them to understand now why it couldn't work back then.
Like any autobiography, this reads like a hagiography at times. But there are passages in these pages when Ali is candid and honest about his mistakes among the moments when he's grandstanding and true to his public persona. But that is as much a part of the allure of Ali as any. This is not intended to be a history book, but it provides an insight to the circus and Ali's life like no other book can. Such a fascinating life makes for fascinating reading, and the ghost writing renders it immaculate.
