https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/11466.This_Boy_s_Life
Although he grew up in 1950’s Washington state and his life experiences are somewhat different from mine, it’s the core of feelings of being a teenager that never change and are the same no matter what your circumstances.Part of what makes Wolff’s struggle that much harder is that his mother makes poor choices of the men she brings into their lives.
As someone who grew up with an abusive father, I can relate to Wolff’s struggle to maintain his “self” as an overbearing parent heartlessly heaps abuse upon abuse.Wolff tells that when he speaks to his children in anger, he can recognize Dwight’s voice as his own.
This is a fairly typical coming-of-age tale, which in this case includes vignettes on getting into fights, making and breaking friendships, girls and their potential for a horny young man, trying to be cool, cars, guns, etc and then some.
Yes, just think of the young Tobias as a more real, less Hollywood-chipper Kevin Arnold.Wolff's prose is a joy to read.
That's quality writing.While I doubt this will be a five star book for everyone, Wolfe's writing style and the stories he told were utterly relatable in my mind.
The book felt familiar to me and some of the aspects of my own coming-of-age story.
Read this book or "In Pharaoh's Army" or some of his short stories.
An absent father, a Pollyannaish mother, and an abusive stepfather all created a kind of hell on earth for Tobias Wolff.
This is a book that doesn't excuse himself, it's just all there in black and white.
But the book is far richer.
Tobias never got to even compete in that turkey shoot way back then, but I reckon he got the prize in Life.
It's definitely an American classic along with his book on Vietnam.
I saw the movie with Leo DiCaprio and Robert De Niro many years before reading this book. I loved the film and I also think it does justice to this fine book. Very poignant and engaging throughout. THIS BOY'S LIFE is an excellent read.
Sometimes when I read a memoir I’m struck with the question “what made this person think their personal history was novel worthy?” Such is the case with This Boy’s Life.
Whatever the reasoning behind Wolff’s decision to write his story, I’m glad he did.
While I wanted to jump into the pages and beat the living hell out of Dwight, at times I also wanted to jump in to wash Wolff’s mouth out with soap or give him a good throttling.This book is so well-written and reads like fiction.
DNFI read just over half before calling it quits.Toby’s life really wasn’t as bad as I expected.
Whether or not that’s because of the way he tells his story, I’m not sure.
It also jumps around at times, enough to be confusing.All this was bad enough, but I soldiered valiantly onwards...until it came to Toby beating the family dog with a floor mop.
A hunting dog that hid in fear at the first sound of a gun shot.
Big, brave Toby.
I only hope someone took pot shots at him, and then beat him with a floor mop!
This Boy's Life is a memoir about the author Tobias Wolff.
I immediately got swept up in the life of Jack and his mother as they leave place after place, boyfriend after boyfriend.
We start as they leave from Florida to head to Utah and we quickly understand the instability of Jack's life.
That is, until he takes it back.I enjoyed this memoir-- it hit a point where I realized we were only getting a snippet of Wolff's life.
This book kept moving and we didn't move forward in Jack's life.
My first book by Mr. Wolff and a peek into his juvenile life that made him successful today.
Pain is endless pain.” ― Tobias Wolff, This Boy's LifeOne of my favorite memoirs of all time.
I find myself, going back and reading whole passages of 'This Boy's Life' just to drink the language and the rub against the energy and charge of Wolff's vitality.
A good memoirist gets the reader to experience the artist's past life through his words, a great memoirist seduces the reader into a place where the reader suddenly recognizes the universal experiences in our shared lives.
I can't very well articulate why this book elicited a 5 star response from me, which is why I enjoyed it so much.
The writing seems so simple and concise and yet there were numerous times when I had to fight my urge to underline the threading together of 3 or 4 words (note to Sarah: I kept your book as pristine as the day I pilfered it from your house).
p.s. Sarah it's on your desk at work - thanks
En Vida de este chico, Tobias Wolff nos deja entrar en ciertas impresiones sobre su infancia y adolescencia.Lejos de los áticos del Upper East Side, del footing matutino por Central Park, de los brunchs exclusivos de fin de semana de las chicas de Sex and the City en los que se dan encuentros de conversaciones banales en los que se comenta la adquisición de los últimos “Manolos” (zapatos de tacón imposible de Manolo Blahnik –aclaración para los no entendidos en la materia-) y se habla de la forma de amar del último tío con el que te has cruzado en el correspondiente club de moda, Wolff nos conduce a la América profunda de los 50.
La misma creencia que acompaña al reflejo de Audrey Hepburn en el escaparate de Tiffany’ s en “Desayuno con diamantes.” Muy americano.
Tobias Wolff was a professor at Stanford. He was my friend Laurel's Italian partner. His friends called him Toby. He scared the bejesus outta me. This is technically unfair, as I never once spoke to him or took one of his classes. I think it was the mustache that did it. It was a very intimidating mustache.Of course, none of this has anything to do with the book, which I loved. I just thought you'd like to know.
Well done. Honest story of how we must overcome our demons lest they consume us ...
This memoir would be overwhelmingly sad for me, had I not already read Old School by the same author and know that he becomes a successful author and teacher of literature at Stanford.
Tobias’ parents divorced when he was a young boy, and his mother set off looking for a better life, leaving her oldest son with her ex-husband.
In 1955 it was hard for a single mother, and life treated Tobias’ mother no better than the next.
Yet instead of ending there, the story flashes back to a time when he was, if not happy, at least hopeful.
Read this back in 2003, remembered it fondly but 4 stars since I somehow don't remember the plot very well. The movie ahead of the reading poisoned it somewhat methinks.
This has to go straight to my favorites of all time. The prose is as generous and truthful as anything I've ever read.

Tobias Wolff is a man known to those who love short stories as something of a master of the form.
His novel, Old School failed to capitalize on his brilliance of the short form, so I must admit to some qualms about his memoir.
Wolff analyses his upbringing with the clarity of an outsider, giving us insight into his deeds and (more frequently) misdeeds.
From constant travels with his single mother escaping a bad relationship to an abusive step father, from mocking his best friend mercilously to cheating his way into boarding school, Wolff doesn't try to make himself look good or even to justify his actions.
He let's them speak for themselves while providing insight into what he was thinking.
3.5 stars. It was an interesting and well written memoir. It's funny how listening to another's life experiences make you think about your own experiences and those of others. My dad is a few years older than Tobias and some of the things Tobias wrote about mirrors stories my dad has told about times spent with his friends when he was a boy and teen. Now I'm I'll have to check out the movie adaptation that stars a very young Leonardo DiCaprio and Robert DeNiro.
Exquisitely written, desperately honest memoir that was incredibly difficult to read. I had to keep walking away, but I kept coming back for more. I am coming away from this wanting to read every word Wolff ever wrote, right away. He's so penetratingly analytical, so able to distance himself from his adolescent pretensions without disavowing the, so incisive and so true. He broke my heart, over and over and over. The prose is knife-like, crystalline and icy. I recommend it.
I basked in dialogue so lucid it sang; basked in energetic, fresh language; became completely absorbed by cinematic atmosphere, scene, and action; basked in spare, powerful moments of insight; pacing; voice, and on and on.
Wolff’s story never lags or loses itself; from the first scene, when a tractor trailer truck loses its breaks and young Toby “Jack” Wolff and mom watch it careen off the road, the reader is hooked: "The sound got louder and then a big truck came around the corner and shot past us into the next curve, its trailer shimmying wildly.
The four best memoirs I have ever read, and I have read too many, are Frank McCort’s, Angela’s Ashes, “Tobias Wolff’s, “This Boy’s Life,” Geoffrey Wolff’s, “The Duke of Deception,” and Jeanette Walls, “The Glass Castle.”These books are similar in describing horrendous childhood’s of upheaval and instability, complicated by mentally ill, vagabond, eccentric parents, and a sort of lower middle class poverty.
When their parents divorce, Geoffrey heads off to live with his father and Tobias goes with his mother.Arthur Wolff was a Yalie, fighter pilot, and ersatz aviation engineer, who was also a vagabond, con-man, flim-flam-man, forger and alcoholic.
I had to read this for school . . . it was an intriguing memoir to read. That being said I FINALLY FINISHED IT!!!!! YAY!2.5 stars
Dwight provides high drama, a tortured soul so consumed with his own unmet developmental needs for attention that he cannot function as a loving partner or stepfather.Both Frank Conroy and Wolff weave in after-the-fact commentary with the contemporaneous story-telling, a technique which, though necessary and instructive, I found temporarily pulled me out of the story in a few places.
You sense they would all have been better off living together in that house and raising their kids without the men they brought into their lives.What I expected from hearing about this book was a kind of torturous account of living with an evil stepfather.
Even the stepfather, Dwight, feels trapped and suffocated by the dark mountains and forests.He is not painted as a monster, though he holds a knife to his mother's throat and beats up on Tobias as a kid.
Even though this book is pure Americana, the cars, guns, boy scouts, drinking high school days etc nothing is cliched.
Though a memoir (not my usual choice) that is based on Wolff's childhood as opposed to a collection of short stories, I still had high hopes.It was okay.
The character I found most intriguing, his mother, a complex dichotomy whom Wolff describes as strong and full of life yet constantly appears trapped and at times apathetic and resolved to the consequences of her bad/weak choices, seemed shortchanged in this story and often felt absent both physically and emotionally.
In the land of memoirs, I suspect there are many more compelling stories to be read.
The only parts that i enjoyed were when the book talked about the brothers truck and when the main character fights with his friend in the gym.
What i didn't enjoy about the book was that it took so long to get into tthe story, and then you never really feel like you quite understand whats going on in it.
I would recommend this to anyone who really just want to have a bad time reading a book.
But if you like this book, I recommend Into the Woods because I felt the same way reading that as I did whith this.
Recenzie : http://cititoriferoce.weebly.com/blog...
The opening acknowledgements had me thinking this would be a breezy comic memoir ("My first stepfather used to say that what I didn’t know would fill a book.
Brutally funny ("He leaned forward as the bubbles rose over the Champagne Orchestra and Lawrence Welk came onstage salaaming in every direction, crying out declarations of humility in his unctuous, brain-scalding Swedish kazoo of a voice."), brutally honest ("I didn’t need to see the tears in Mr. Welch’s eyes to know that I had brought shame on myself.
The real harm was in their knowing that someone could come upon them in this state, and pause to do them injury.
Wolff is quickly becoming one of my favorite writers, having read a novel, a novella, a short story collection, and now a memoir.
The narrator in Old School is undoubtedly modeled somewhat after Wolff's own experiences at the Hill School, which he doesn't go into in This Boy's Life, though he does detail how he got in.
This Boy's Life is as good as a memoir gets.
More or less, you feel like you're reading a novel.
Jack isn't just worried about making friends and getting girls, he's evading his mom's abusive husband, ranking up in the Boy Scouts, delivering papers, husking chestnuts, manipulating his way into the upper class, shoplifting, drinking, and fighting.
But Wolff makes us understand that at the heart of a bad kid is the legitimate, if misguided, search for some kind of personal power.
These shows instructed us further in the faith we were already beginning to hold: that victims are contemptible, no matter how much people pretend otherwise; that it is more fun to be inside than outside, to be arrogant than to be kind, to be with a crowd than to be alone.” That’s the trouble with being a victim, Wolff reminds us—it can make you aspire to tyranny.Jack ultimately escapes to the private school he lied his way into, but can’t succeed there either and is eventually thrown out.
I wish he would write a sequel; I want to know the details of the continued transformation from a powerless boy to a man who, having found himself, empowers others.
