https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/20926278-revival
Revival is Stephen King's bleakest work to date.
It's a revival of old school King, the King many of us miss.
But I cannot feel as if something inside me has died.
At least I hope it will.The mastery of language showcased in Revival is simply breathtaking.
"Home is where they want you to stay longer." And it's funny, folks, because, for the first time in my life, I wanted a Stephen King book to be longer, so that quote is damn apt.
I wanted more time with Jaime before the final descent into darkness.
I wanted him to have more time period.
Something happened.Mother fuck..I'm gonna have nightmares from this shit.The story begins with young Jamie outside playing war with some army soldiers his sister had gotten him for his birthday. A man's shadow falls across him and so begins what Jamie calls his "fifth business." This book is somewhat of a coming of age story. The reader gets to grow up with Jamie and we are all involved with Reverend Charles Jacobs too..whether we want to be or not.Jamie's story takes you through five decades of
Something happened.Mother fuck..I'm gonna have nightmares from this shit.The story begins with young Jamie outside playing war with some army soldiers his sister had gotten him for his birthday.
This book is somewhat of a coming of age story.
The story was good, you had in the back of your mind that it could turn at any given moment...but well old Stephen King has gone softer in the last few years..don't worry too much...I think we all pissed Stephen King off by calling him soft.
Fuck soft.
(hide spoiler)]PS..thank you again to my book fairy.
It's time for that approximately biannual event once again - Stephen King has released a new novel.
Is there a way for the living to ever find out before their time comes?Using his familiar talent for creating characters that feel entirely real, King at first introduces us to a small town and religious community in New England.
It takes questions everyone has asked themselves and creates something horrifying out of it.I know this is a heavy claim to make, but I think this might be one of my favourite Stephen King novels.
I’ve been married for 25 years with a 30 year mortgage and raised three boys, I’ve been to Iraq, taken and passed the bar exam and am in private practice.I don’t scare easy.This book was scary.This was old school, spooky / creepy STEPHEN FREAKING KING wake you up in the middle of the night ‘cause Barlow is sneaking down the hallway scary.Carrie walking Cujo down Shining Lane as Christine drives by.Scary.First of all, any book that begins with a quote from H.P. Lovecraft gets a quick and decisive thumbs up.
If it doesn’t then it comes damn close which still makes this a pretty impressive achievement for Uncle Steve at this point in his long career.Jamie Morton first meets Reverend Charles Jacobs when he’s a 6 year old kid in Maine during the early ‘60s.
The readers’ impressions of it are probably going to be determined by how well the punch King spends the entire book setting us all up for landed.
(Sorry, it had to be said.) (hide spoiler)]I’ll be thinking about this one for a while, and it could end fairly high in my personal ranking of King novels after some reflection.
If I didn't love his writing as much as I do, I'd've been happy never to read another one of his books.I wanted to write that the first 40% of the book is skippable and that it picks up but that was false on my part because the pick up is quickly let go again.Basically, King gives us the entire life story of the MC from about 5-ish to post 50's.
this is how we bring about our own damnation, you know—by ignoring the voice that begs us to stop. To stop while there’s still time. There is a somewhat leisurely feel to Stephen King’s latest, Revival. Dramatic events are sprinkled throughout the narrative, but the story moves along at what seems a deliberate pace. I am reminded of Ted Williams’s advice for batters, “wait, wait, wait, then quick, quick, quick.” The final, high voltage scenes of Revival pay for the whole.Our narrator, Jamie Mo
And he gets overt about his reference a short time later.In a recent Rollingstone interview, King was asked when he first got the idea Revival .
I read this story called The Great God Pan in high school, and there were these two characters waiting to see if this woman could come back from the dead and tell them what was over there.
As King gets on in years, it is not surprising to see him write a story that spans a lifetime, seeing the growth, the change in people, family, friends.
Jamie and the Rev will cross paths again and again as the Rev seeks to master what he calls the secret electricity, the energy that powers the universe...I found this book to be an extremely mixed bag, which you'll read in a moment.Revival follows the life of Jamie Morton, a rhythm guitarist, whose life intersects with Charles Jacobs, a priest/huckster/mad scientist who things electricity is the key to most of life's mysteries.
I was interested in Jamie's journey from rock and roller to drug addict to studio musician but the meat of the story was whenever he crossed paths with Charles Jacobs, or whatever he was calling himself at the time.
May be it wasn't about Horror Carnivals as I've presumed before..It wasn't "Joyful" as it may seem..It gets darker and darker..till you might lose faith in any joy..even light..as if it's the notorious "God Delusion" disguised into a novel..The Terrible Sermon in the beginning of the Novel was "shocking" actually ...yet I can't deny It have some even little reason in it..“people always want a reason for the bad things in life.
"People say that where there’s life, there’s hope, and I have no quarrel with that, but I also believe the reverse.There is hope, therefore I live." I am a true Stephen King collector, a terminal case of his Constant Reader. Year after year I get my hands on his stories, and almost with no exceptions my admiration for the man continues to grow. I love his disturbingly vivid imagination, the rare quality of his storytelling voice, his ability to suck you into a tale he weaves, and an uncanny tal
Which, by the way, is exactly why the uneasy hints of the reality other than that Jamie Morton and the rest of us are accustomed to worked so much better for me than the final climactic confrontation (as, I must confess, frequently happens with King's books - he's the master of tense buildup, but the resolutions are sometimes just a tad weaker).
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/4.5 StarsWhile I was reading this happened . . .  And now that I’m done and ready to write a review, I’m thinking “why the f*&^ do I do this to myself?!?!?!?” There’s no way I’ll be able to give this book the review it deserves – flagging the crap out of it is just like a salt-in-the-wound type of reminder of that fact. That leaves me with the question of “where to begin?” The most obvious place would be the beginning . . .Jamie Mo
(Since we’re dealing with Stephen King I think it should probably be clear to most of you that at some point during this book the proverbial shit also hits the fan.)Sooooooo, now that I’ve written all THAT, I should probably talk about my reaction at some point, huh?
I realize the consensus of other Constant Readers is going to differ from me on this point and most will feel that the near-ending (once you read it, you'll totally know the part I'm talking about, but there's no way I'm spoiling anything here) was the end all/be all of the entire story and that’s fine.
While not a full on frontal assault horror novel in the tradition of The Shining or Pet Sematary, Revival definitely ranks as one of the darkest, most unsettling books King has written in a long time.
I get frustrated sometimes with certain fans (with hearts in the right place) who still want King to be churning out the kind of books he was writing in the 80's.
Or when.One of the things I've loved about King over the years is his profound ability to assemble a world and characters that are so very, very normal.
Although the structure at first looks like a homage to the form - the protagonist relating the horrors that he has already experienced in recollection, short summaries below each chapter - it soon lapses into familiar territory.Revival begins in the setting of so many of Stephen King novels, the ubiquitous small town in New England, and is narrated by Jamie Morton - a local boy who is the first to meet the town's new pastor, Charles Jacobs.
That’s it??The book is exceptionally well written, which is no surprise, as Stephen King is an exceptional writer, and a master storyteller, but to me this was only just an ok read.At one point in the story Jamie is asked if he wants to go on stage and play guitar.
I think, with King, this is perhaps the reason why his later books don’t work for me.
King has scared the bejeezus out of me with much better nasties than Charlie Jacobs.***Audio Trailer - Narrated by David Morse: http://stephenking.com/promo/revival/...Excerpt from chapter 6.
2.5 starsThis book is so underwhelming and over hyped.I've only read two other King books but after 
"People always want a reason for the bad things in life. Sometimes there ain't one." Almost everyone assured me that this is King's scariest, darkest, and creepiest novel to date. I don't completely disagree with the numerous acclaims, but I am considering this novel as heavily flawed. The plot was immersing, but only to a certain extent. I now understand why some people warned me that this novel was a bit dragging in the middle. A lot of uninteresting things did happen in the middle, and it ma
There is one novel that popped up in my mind while reading this, and that would be King's older novel, Pet Sematary.
The difference would be that Pet Sematary was executed way better, in terms of plot and characters.
This novel was not all bad though, and there are a lot of good things to say about it.
He was obviously fake from the beginning, so all throughout the novel he was just annoying me.The plot, like I said, was great.
I like a good plot twist, something that would knock me out of my seat, but sadly this novel didn't do that to me.
Anyone, and I mean anyone, who thinks Uncle Stevie has lost some of his edge over the last few years shall now eat his/her words. Me being one of them. Now I know you're saying to yourself - what the fuck, Andrea? You love Stephen King! You've been reading him for three decades practically! How dare you say such things! Have you lost your damn mind? And I do. I adore King. He's the only author that I have followed religiously since pre-teendom. The only author that although some books don't res
Anyone, and I mean anyone, who thinks Uncle Stevie has lost some of his edge over the last few years shall now eat his/her words.
The only author that although some books don't resonate with me, I still know that the next one will be better.
But, I have missed the old school King over the years.
The raw, disturbing, gut wrenching, on the edge of your seat horror that was delved out in King's darker days.
Revival is old-school horror master King.
You grow up and know that everything that little bird told you isn't real.
I’m not sure that I have ever felt as conflicted about my feelings on a book by Stephen King as I do about Revival.
I loved every word.It’s when we flash forward to older, drug-addicted Jamie that King kind of lost me.
I loved where King took Charlie as far as him turning into this crazed psychopath whose obsession completely takes over his life.
Then there were parts that made me think “Is this really Stephen King writing this?!” So, I have rated this book 3 stars with a confused heart.
But in the end, it just got four stars.
(I need to read something cheerful after this...) However, I'm sure there are people that will love the ending, and it was not a bad ending, but perhaps I'm just a gal that what some hope in the end...The rest of the book was great, I love Jamie and his family.
I love watching him growing up, hell I would have loved reading a book about Jamie's life without Charles Jacobs.
I know Jamie would have been a hell of a lot of happier without him in his life.
My review for this was somehow deleted -- so, yay for me! Regardless, this book wasn't amazing -- I still remember having to force myself to read it. So, I am tempted to lower the rating, because 3 stars seems pretty high. But, I won't.I swear, the only reason I gave this 3 stars was because the guy I liked (years ago) had enjoyed this and I was determined to like it, too -- so we could have something to talk about. It's funny how a crush can make you like a book more than you actually would've.
ReVolting Revival"My mind racedAnd I thought what could I do (Thunder)And I knewThere was no help, no help from you (Thunder)"AC/DC, "Thunderstruck," 1990King's wizardry charges through Jamie Morton's ominous odyssey into the darkest forces of evil.
Shades of Poe, Hawthorne and O'Connor via an electrified modern-day Elmer Gantry.I like this change of pace and find the story more terrifying because King slowly builds layer upon layer of evil to a crashing crescendo.
While I don't consider it one of King's best, I do continue to appreciate his bottomless well of Lucifer-ous imagination.
Now I'm convinced. They've cloned him. 2.4 stars
Ovako, s obzirom na Kingov neprevaziđeni stil pisanja, posebno kada je reč o karakterizaciji likova, dobija jednu klimavu 4 :)*** 03.12.2016 - smanjila sam ocenu na 3*, pa neka se gospodin King malo zamisli, ako ovako nastavi, doći ćemo u situaciju da će za neku narednu knjigu od mene dobiti i 2!!***Ono što mi je najviše zasmetalo je kraj.
Naišla sam na društvenim mrežama na komentare poput:"Pretposlednje poglavlje je najstrašnije koje je King ikada napisao!".
Kao odgovor na ovaj i slične komentare mogu samo da preporučim "Groblje kućnih ljubimaca", "Mizeri", "Isijavanje", i "To".Pretposlednje poglavlje nije najstrašnije koje je King ikada napisao, nije čak ni najkontraverznije, niti najkvalitetnije.
I'm just going to say this is the best King novel I have read in a long time.I wrote two different reviews (long and thoughtful, both) and lost internet signal before saving either one.Not happening again, folks.Buy this and dive in to a genuine treat.
King is at his best.
It starts out as a coming of age tale told in first person.
The narrator, Jaime first meets Charles Jacobs as a six-year old and then their lives intersect over the next fifty plus years.
Their fates are seemingly interlocked.Bad things were bound to happen, but I didn't see that ending coming at all.It's bleak, but in the best way.Loved it!
In his best short fiction, Edgar Allan Poe achieved a "unity of effect." In tales like "The Tell-Tale Heart" and "Masque of the Red Death," the whole is greater than the sum of its parts.
However, REVIVAL is better *written* than the aforementioned titles (with the caveat that no one but King could have written the others; when we’re talking about the master, we’re splitting hairs among some of the best pieces of horror fiction ever created; it’s like the difference between Da Vinci’s Last Supper and his Mona Lisa—they’re both extraordinary).But what blows my mind about REVIVAL is how “grooved” it is.
Overall, this is a solid tale from Stephen King, but the monstrous epic I was hoping for is left lurking in the darkness, just off the page.The first act is absolutely stellar, with King doing what he does best.
It's a slow, drawn-out act that really only serves to establish Jamie's addiction, as a set-up for his eventual revival.
At one time those horrors would have been the setting for the tale, as big a part of the horror as Jamie's loss and Jacob's obsessions, but here they're just background.
and I can't help but feel there's far more horror to be found post-revival.Originally reviewed at Beauty in Ruins
While the spooky/gore factor is way down from old-school King, this one felt like curling up in a familiar, tattered old blanket you've had since you were a kid.
A fascinating story that explores a lifelong (albeit intermittent) relationship between two men.
Think of the pseudoscience of FIRESTARTER or CARRIE mixed in with the slow-build magical implications of THE DARK HALF or IT, and you're in the right mental place to enjoy this one.I pounded the audiobook during a move.
Having King in my U-Haul made the 12-hour trip go by fast.
It's been a long time since I read/listened to any Stephen King, and I'm glad snagged REVIVAL.
I truly loved large parts of this story, including its main character, Jamie Morton.
It’s hard not to like a King main character.
A teenage Jamie picks up a guitar one day, and the story comes to life.
Jacobs is not the most interesting part of this story, but through the first 300 pages, he is hardly there.
If you’re reading this book and wondering the same thing as me, then hang on until page 300.
The culminating vision at the end of the book is not my favorite King ending, but I’m sure many readers will love it.
Having just mused about the wonder evoked by electricity through a couple centuries of science in my review for   AC/DC: The Savage Tale of the First Standards War  , I'll keep this review light on history lessons. However, there is one parallel that bears mentioning—the notion that electricity (in both fact and fiction) lies at the very core of what it means for something to be  alive!  As one of my favorite mad scientists once said: Mary Shelley was, at the very least, aware of (if not inspire
Having just mused about the wonder evoked by electricity through a couple centuries of science in my review for 
However, there is one parallel that bears mentioning—the notion that electricity (in both fact and fiction) lies at the very core of what it means for something to be 
Frankenstein; or, The Modern Prometheus
Even in modern wilderness medicine, lightning remains the perpetual wild card.
Now, just imagine if there was a new kind of electricity, a 
secret electricity
How did Revival stack up?It's possible that my recent reading of 
on the menu (another on my list of recently reads) if you're up for a literary ménage à trois…just some food for thought!
Far from my favorite King. While it was (typically with his work) well-told, I felt it was a novella length story drawn out to 400+ pages, and as such I found it a bit of a slog to get through. The core of the story is interesting and alive with possibilities, but the payoff felt a little cliched and (also typical of most King novels) hurried. Not sorry I read it, but it won't be one that lingers long. Always nice to see King flex his Lovecraftian muscles though.
