https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1834804.The_Vortex
Well, a bit overdone, yet it could be amazing if performed by drag queens. Or Faye Dunaway.
I am inescapably drawn to stories in which there is something glaringly twisted, wrong, or psychologically off-putting about the characters.
This script was not as outrightly disturbing as, for instance, 'Buried Child,' by Sam Shepard, but revealed a side of the elite that we all know exists but no one wants to talk about.
In a plot where everyone knows something is wrong, most playwrights choose to give their characters grand blind eyes, and all avoid confrontation on the topic as much as they can.
The exposure of this plot is quite well-paced, assuming it is played as such, with typical quick-witted English charm.
"The vortex of beastliness"The notorious 1924 drama lifting the lid on the lives of the country house set and what a plate of worms it is too, climaxing in Oedipal angst.
From BBC Radio 4 Extra:The notorious 1924 drama lifting the lid on the lives of the country house set. Stars Elizabeth Sellars and Martin Jarvis.
What a big argument about life,
The characters are so ghastly, I found this difficult to listen to!
A young man returns from Paris and announces his engagement to a woman who ends up not wanting to marry him. His mother is theatrical and histrionic, and her lover turns out to love the former fiancee. It ends with an emotional showdown between mother and son.Not my favorite of Coward's plays. Some moments of brilliance. Drugs as a proxy for homosexuality was clear, but played a smaller part in the action. The mother's antics were center stage. Recommend with caution.
This was so much fun to read and I loved the characters and how dramatic it all was however I would have liked a bit more about the characters as sometimes it would be too little about one person!
I love the dialogue in Noël Cowards work, but for this one- one of his earlier works from 1920, the plot didn't quite fit for me. I wouldn't have known quite what was going on if I hadn't read the forward I don't think. It was still worth reading though. Nobody writes British wit quite like Noël Coward in my opinion.Review originally posted on Imogen’s Typewriter.
Wow. This play seemed so much better 30+ years ago. It is still interesting as an excursion into early Coward and a didactic view of upper class frivolity, but I am not longer sure this is a great play. THE NATIONAL ENQUIRER would love this to be true.
A family showdown concerning the vortex of beastliness, the crime of being loved, a desire for beauty, youthfulness and success. Fragile family bonds are put into question and possibly tarnished beyond repair.
Too snobbish and pretentious
OMG don't let me become an old Lush! I appreciate Coward reminding us old girls to act our age.
re-read 1/1993; in Play Parade
i don't know
