https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1071884.The_Fox
724. The Fox, D.H. LawrenceThe Fox is a novella by D. H. Lawrence which first appeared in The Dial in 1922. Set in Berkshire, England, during World War I, The Fox, like many of D. H. Lawrence’s other major works, deals with the psychological relationships of three protagonists in a triangle of love and hatred. Without the help of any male laborers, Nellie March and Jill Banford struggle to maintain a marginal livelihood at the Bailey Farm. A fox has raged through the poultry, and although the wo
لارنس؛ مترجم: کاوه میرعباسی؛ تهران، باغ نو، 1382، در 103 ص؛ شابک: 9647425309؛ چاپ دیگر: تهران، ماهی، 1393، در 136 ص؛ شابک: 9789642091829؛ موضوع: داستانهای نویسندگان انگلیسی - سده 20 مبا عنوان: روباه و ده داستان دیگر: مترجم: محمود معلم؛ بی جا، موبی دیک، ؟، در 288 ص؛ چاپ دیگر: شیراز، ادیب مصطفوی، 1392، در 146 ص، شابک: 9786006142685؛عنوان: روباه؛ نویسنده: دی.اچ.
رمان باید حدود سال 1919 میلادی رخ داده باشد، چرا که به «اپیدمی آنفلوآنزا» اشاره شده، همچنین «روباه»، به دلیل اشاره به مصیبتها و سختیهای پس از جنگ، یکی از نمونه های درخشان ادبیات این ژانر است.
« مارچ» زنی که برایِ گذرانِ زندگی نیاز به هیچ مردی ندارد و همراه با « بنفورد»، مستقلانه زندگی میکنندزن باید «بیدار میماند» ...
باید بررسی میکرد و میسنجید و تصمیم میگرفت...
باید افسارِ زندگیش را محکم به دست میگرفت...بله، باید تا آخر زنی مستقل باقی میماند، اما از همه چیز خسته شده بود، خستگیش حدی نداشت...
اما مرد « به خواب رفتن» زن را میخواست...
زن نباید مردانه رفتار میکرد، نباید مستقل باشد و بارِ مسئولیت هایِ مردانه را بر دوش بکشد...
حتی مسئولیت در قبالِ روحِ خودش را باید به مرد واگذار میکرد...
It was the first time the ladies saw him, but they took him in because he had nowhere else to go.
He and the more attractive lady had a liking for each other even if at first she had likened him to the fox she could not forget [or, maybe, it was because she considered him like the fox that she had liked him].
He was then able to marry the remaining girl and brought her to Canada.But like a fox with a chicken he caught and carries with his mouth, neither of them was really happy.The end.
Somewhere in most of his books that I've read there is something that I like (not love) about them.
They aren't doing so well on the farm, because a) they are women who couldn't be bothered to really work the soil properly b) want to have fun.
Being a man he throws the whole henparty into a tizzy, that is until he decides he wants to own the farm and to do so is going to marry the manly lady.
From earlier Lawrence books I've read I'm fairly certain he is gay.
Χ. Λόρενς είναι κυρίως γνωστός για το "Ο εραστής της λαίδης Τσάτερλι" και το "Γιοι και εραστές", όμως εγώ επέλεξα την (όχι και τόσο πολυδιαβασμένη) μικρή αυτή νουβέλα, για πρώτη γνωριμία με το έργο του.
Τίμησα την προσφορά της Πολιτείας και αγόρασα χθες το βιβλίο, και σήμερα το μεσημεράκι το άρχισα και το τελείωσα μέσα σ'ένα δίωρο.
Μια μέρα, όμως, μπαίνει στην ζωή τους ένας νεαρός άντρας, ο Χένρι, ο οποίος θα αλλάξει τις ισορροπίες, από την στιγμή που αυτός και η Μαρτς θα νιώσουν μια έντονη έλξη ο ένας για τον άλλον.
Σίγουρα είναι ένα βιβλίο που δείχνει λίγο τα χρόνια του, όμως κάτι στην γραφή μου έκανε καλή εντύπωση.
March, the stronger of the two women, begins a campaign to kill this animal and in a chance meeting with the fox she becomes fixated with him and unable to cause him harm.
She feels his power dominating her spirit.A young soldier returning from the war, looking for somewhere to stay and work, arrives and is tentatively allowed to stay.
He is impudent, daring and unsettling, like the fox, and he has his own plans to cause disruption.Lawrence's story is an allegory of sexuality and power.
A power struggle begins and there will be a victim.
This short story was very clever and distinctive.
Here's the even shorter (abridged) version:**********SPOILERS BELOW**********March: I'm the pretty one.Banford: And I'm the smart one.March: We live together on our jointly owned farmBanford: and share a bedroomMarch: but we're not lesbiansBanford: we've just beenMarch: best friends forever.Henry: Knock-Knock.March and Banford: Who's There?Henry: I'm the male fox.March: Don't come in.Banford: She's just being silly.
March - go get the tea!March: Okay.Henry: So, you ladies live all alone?Banford: Not anymore, cause you're gonna live here with us, right?Henry: Awesome.Banford: Hey!
But, let me cut down that tree for you.March: Okay.Henry: I think this tree will land on Banford and kill her.
March and Bagwell, want to live alone on a farm that primarily raises chickens.
Not only is this frowned on during that time period, but these women know next to nothing about farming or chickens.
Also surprise, surprise a fox is killing their chickens one by one.Into this mix comes a ex-soldier who sees a golden opportunity.
Hence the fox in the hen house will have a dual meaning.A rather good story, suspenseful because even though it is easy to guess, given the title.
A story about greed and power, still stands the test of time.
In rereading The Fox the other day, I commented to myself how often Lawrence repeated certain words, particularly in passages where the lead female protagonist, is striving for understanding through self-castigation.
The words in these passages were, over and over again, "failure," "responsibility," and "reaching," either repeated exactly or slightly altered, so that "failure" might become "failing," or "reaching" might become "reach.This is very tiny stuff, but more than "style." It struck me that Lawrence was using prose to replicate "how we think" not through stream-of-consciousness, per se, but in an equally interesting, and perhaps more powerful way.
Τον διαβόητο Εραστή του Λώρενς στα κλεφτά τον διάβασα, σε μια έκδοση που είχα αγοράσει έφηβος από πάγκο στον δρόμο –αφού είχα δει την ταινία(;) – και νομίζω ότι είχε ένθετες φωτογραφίες με κάποιες σκηνές της ταινίας (μπορώ πάντως να τις ανασύρω από το ταμιείον).
Και ερχόταν ξανά και ξανά, σε στιγμές που δεν το περίμενε, όπως όταν πήγαινε να κοιμηθεί το βράδυ, ή όταν έριχνε το νερό στην τσαγιέρα»….Και σαν να μην έφτανε αυτή η αλεπού, ένα βράδυ, με σίγουρα βήματα και συρτή, μαλακή και χαμηλή φωνή εισβάλλει στο σπίτι ένας άντρας, κι η Μαρτς έμεινε να τον κοιτά γοητευμένη (ένα θέμα με τη γοητεία του απρόσμενου το είχε η κοπελιά).
Ενδιαφέρουσα ιστορία από τον D. H. Lawrence, την οποία διάβασα μονορούφι και διασκέδασα πολύ!
I love this story.
It seems people either love or hate D.H. Lawrence, well I am slightly obsessed with him, and this story is a good example of why.
His descriptions, symbolism and metaphors are just insanely beautiful, in my opinion.
I am so drawn into his work and his writing style.
I love the strange way he repeats things, the way he leaves you hanging, leaving it out there, so that you can wrap your mind around it and mold it yourself.
Sometimes I will read just a simple sentence or two from his work and think--Wow. Yes, exactly.
It amazes me he was able to spit out lauguage so profoundly beautiful.
D.H. Lawrence's prose is often described as 'muscular', which I think is another way of saying 'mostly bullshit'. Very forgettable. Don't bother.
زن با تمام وجود می کوشد ، می کوشد تا مرد را خوشبخت کند ، تا حد توانایی اش برای آسودگی دنیا و آدم هایش تلاش می کند و همیشه سهمش جز شکست و ناکامی نیست
3,5*
Mannish girl wants to shoot it, but when she encounters it she has what appears to be a mystical experience which leads to even more vacant staring.
He's a total layabout and just wants to go shooting all the time, but he decides he would like to own the farm, and figures he should marry the mannish girl.
Will Mannish Girl become convinced that the Boy is the Fox and shoot him in a vague fit of erotic panic?Sadly the answer to most of these questions is no.
Then again, you can just read some of the other reviews that give the ending away, and then go find another 1001-book.
يك كليله و دمنه ى مدرنِ انگليسى
This book is perfect.
The only DH Lawrence I ever read before tackling this book was "The Rocking-horse Winner", an odd little story about love that borders on the Oedipal and luck that borders on insanity.
In the end I can't tell if Henry is still the fox or if March is still the strong one.
I was entranced by this book and the story and Lawrence's writing style, but when it ended and I caught my breath I felt a little let-down, I'm not really sure by what.
In the farm house up the slop the farmer and his wife too awake, make coffee to get ready for the chicken and cows, get food prepared for lunch and supper, lights illuminate their process through the house as they make their way out the front door to begin the day.
Yes it would take all day for them to get lunch and dinner ready, but it was more than alright because after the sun went down, the framer and his wife would sit on the couch, her feet upon his lap, and they would sit in the wonderful quiet, how truly quiet it is on the farm, he would read to her the Fox, by D.H. Lawrence till it was time to turn in and start it all over again tomorrow, oh the bliss!
//روباه دی اچ لارنسکاوه میر عباسینشر باغ نو(۱۳۸۲)۱۰۴صفحهدو زن در روستایی دور از شهر در کلبه ای با هم
And then March who wants desperately to give in, to "sleep" in the comfort of love, but is afraid to give up her individuality which she has worked so hard to preserve all these years during the War...speaks to a time when women were beginning to get some independence but still the previous generations notions of marriage and submission were still so ingrained.
He is describing what it feels like to BE a certain state of mind, to BE a desire or a thought or action, rather than to just KNOW or THINK this thing.
"Vide la volpe che guardava su verso di lei col muso chino e gli occhi rivolti all'alto, quasi a cercare i suoi. March ne fu atterrita e come ammaliata: e capì che l'altra la conosceva. La volpe fissava lei negli occhi ed ella ne ebbe l'anima come smarrita, ma l'altra la conosceva e non aveva paura." Bello bello bello. 1918, nella campagna inglese March e Bandford - due donne sulla trentina - possiedono e gestiscono una piccola fattoria in campagna, oltre ad una duratura amicizia. Il loro quiet
"Vide la volpe che guardava su verso di lei col muso chino e gli occhi rivolti all'alto, quasi a cercare i suoi.
March ne fu atterrita e come ammaliata: e capì che l'altra la conosceva.
La volpe fissava lei negli occhi ed ella ne ebbe l'anima come smarrita, ma l'altra la conosceva e non aveva paura."
Il loro quieto vivere sarà stravolto da un giovane soldato che ricorda con inquietudine a March la volpe che si aggira sul loro terreno, e miete vittime tra il pollame.Lawrence è uno scrittore magistrale; ci serve una storia fatta di metafore animalesche che continuano a ribaltarsi con soffici svolte, alle volte annunciate da sogni, sensazioni, parole.
Sometimes I read a book and give it 3 or 4 stars and then a week or a month later I go back and upgrade it.
The book perhaps played on my mind, I mulled and pondered its secrets, and I love books that make me do that.This book is kind of the opposite.
I gave it 4-stars and now I kind of want to drop it down.
You know, finish the unfinished books so that I don't start next year with 20 books to read before I can even start on the books I get as xmas presents.
A wonderful novella which I've read in one sitting.Two spinsters living on a farm, Jill is plain and sickly where as Nellie is pretty and strong.All changes when a soldier returns from the war.Passions run high with tragic consequences!
Free download available at eBooks@AdelaideThis story is not so impressive as any other book written by D.H. Lawrence.
Didn't get anything from it. There were characters sort of, definitely some metaphor, but meh?
"Instead of her soul swaying with new life, it seemed to droop, to bleed, as if it were wounded." I came across this gorgeous vintage book at the secondhand bookstore last week and fell in love with the cover! I read this dark and haunting novel on the airplane home. Two women live on a farm together peacefully until a man arrives and worms his way into their lives, causing all sorts of trouble. The end was shocking. So tragic and beautifully written!
3.5 stars
I picked up _The Fox_ from Vesoul's public library, which has a very limited and truly quirky selection of books in English.
Oh, and of course, there's the figure of the fox.
The language is very indirect and the dialogue reminded me of Eddie Izzard's skit about English films, "Oh, I, uh" "I had better go..." "Yes, I think you'd better had..."All of the real meaning in the story is hidden underneath the dialogue, in the glances and body language between the characters.
But boy, is there meaning!!
The fox imagery is almost shamanic in its mysticism, and there are incredible dreams that made me wish I knew more about Jung.
