https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3577430-ilsa
I have loved the books of Madeleine L'Engle since childhood, and even now those old paperbacks have an honorary place on my bookshelf, despite being worse for wear.
Tattered covers, dog eared pages, those are the books that I read over and over again.
One does not merely read a Madeleine L'Engle book.
Even if the soul went to heaven, the body would become part of the earth again, of sand and wind and trees and sea."  The story was told through the eyes of Henry, yet it never seemed to stray far from Ilsa.
As the ending came near, I felt despondent, lost.
2.5 starsWhile somewhat interesting for its presentation of time and place, I mostly found this tedious and disappointing. It's mostly about things that don't happen, or that happened years before the events of the book.One of L'Engle's earliest works, and despite the claims of the publishers that have recently re-released it, there are good reasons it was so long out of print.
UghWanders. Characters are weak individuals. I kept waiting for something definitive to happen but it never does. The ending was horrible.
The rare life-changing, new favorite read!This novel came into my life because it was on sale.
Most of the prose tells of the emotions, actions, and machinations of his loved ones, such that for a long time it reads as a third-person narrative.
I can truly say that while this is in many ways a simple story, it struck me to the core and changed me; I feel like I have learned some things about myself in the process of living this novel.
Everything in this compelling and very readable novel centres on Ilsa, a young woman who becomes an obsession for one of her neighbours, Henry, and it his unrequited love for her that powers the narrative.
It’s an atmospheric novel, set in the American south in the early part of the 20th century, where lives are often still blighted by prejudice and bigotry, but where it’s impossible to escape the clutches of the extended family.
It’s certainly not a cheerful or uplifting book – even the happier characters rarely seem to enjoy their lives – but I found the story an immersive one and it kept my attention throughout.
Almost 5 stars, but a few things bugged me: the ending that just ended...wahhh??? And the narrator who was really there just to tell the story, very little character development other than maybe he didn't have a character? Otherwise, I was very pleased with this being my first L'Engle novel and I loved where it took place. I wanted more and wished it could have been developed a bit further.
Underrated by the author, and darker than most of her other work, Ilsa is worth seeking out.
Location not specified, but I'm guessing South Carolina or Florida rather than Georgia or Alabama.Time: a roughly 24-year period between 1900 and 1930.Main characters: Ilsa Brandes, Henry Randolph Porcher and his extended family.
Told from the POV of Henry.Opening lines: "I watched the little girl for a long time.
I plan to remedy that over the coming year.Book description: From the moment Henry Porcher first sees Ilsa Brandes, he worships her.
Finally finished because I needed an ebook to read in the dark while getting over a days-long migraine. I honestly think ML accomplished exactly what she wanted to achieve with each of the many, many books she wrote. ‘Ilsa’ was not an enjoyable book nor an enjoyable character, because of Henry, the protagonist, and his doomed obsession for her, because of not being loved by his mother. Tied into the Patrick Melrose novels in unexpected ways.
Madeleine L'Engle is famous for book A Wrinkle in Time. She wrote approximately sixty books. This novel is the second she published. The themes that concern her in the Time series of books can also be found here. I enjoyed it.
Well, I admit I have never read one of Madeleine's books.
I didn't have any idea what I was going to be reading.
I worried that there were 67 chapters, even if some were short chapters.
I made it through but I'm not sure what I read.
I did d like this story but this is a long book.
Be aware that it will go in one way only to find it is going another way.
I would recommend you to read this book.
It really is a clean story.
I volunteered to read and review this book.
Just a bit too boring. It read like a play that goes on for too long, and as a book it’s even longer. There’s no resolution for the main character and the titular character isn’t mesmerising enough to credit his obsession with her.You can tell that the author was a play write, but not in a good way.
I love Madeleine L'Engle's young adult novels so I thought I would try this. The descriptive language is magnificent. The storyline, not so much. It was very dark and depressing and the ending left too many characters hanging.
It is often dark and gritty, and even though some parts feel dated, others are surprisingly modern considering that it was written decades ago.Young Henry doesn’t realize his level of privilege, until he sees his life through the eyes of Ilsa and her father – they live in a modest home overlooking the beach, and seem free and happy in comparison with Henry’s old-fashioned and often cold family.
Ilsa lets her life pass by without acting, and Henry watches from a distance, drifting through time.
This was my first novel by Madeleine L’Engle and for the most part, I found it an engaging and enjoyable read.
I definitely was more interested in the first half of the novel, but found last half a bit disappointing.The disappointment is mainly due to the character of Henry.
She also presents some eccentric Southern characters who are able to demonstrate love and acceptance, a sense of responsibility towards others and the value of close family ties.Overall, I enjoyed reading Ilsa and look forward to reading more from L’Engle in the future.
The start of this novel was very Willa Cather-esque for me: meeting characters in their youth, the importance of the natural surroundings, a connection with nature, etc.
I found myself immediately intrigued by Henry and Ilsa and wanted to know where their futures led.
In one of L'Engle's memoirs she seems to refer to this novel as one that was published too prematurely, that it was a good first draft, but a better editor would have asked more from L'Engle before publishing.
I can't be 100% sure if it was this novel, since she never mentions the title.
L'Engle never fails to draw me into her stories.
In this book Ilsa is the main character but we meet and learn about her from Henry, her neighbour who idolizes her at first meeting.
But he doesn't understand her because he does idolize her.Ilsa remains a mystery to the reader because we only know her through Henry's eyes.
She is fond of Henry but she doesn't love him.
The ending of the story was very odd in that it just stopped.
A few hints about where they went would have been more in keeping with L'Engle's later stories.
This novel was published in the 1940's.
L'Engle includes some beautiful descriptions in this story of a Southern family in the early 1900's.
I am glad I read the entire book, but I got frustrated with the inability of the main character to change and grow.
The picture of the traditional Southern extended family, including cousins who intermarry is interesting.
The descriptions of the black maids and other minority locals may be accurate depictions of Southern attitudes at the time of the story, but are uncomfortable reading in 2017.
This book really surprised me.
It was a sad book, but it spoke to me because of that.
This story of Henry Porcher unrequited love for Ilsa Brandes through the years and the disappointments they both faced shows how hard life could be.
Ilsa character was very real to me.
I did have a problem with the ending though as I found ended to abruptly and on an even more depressing not than the rest of the book gave so I was a little taken aback.
All the same, this book is a new favorite of mine that I will definitely buy the kindle version now.
I really loved parts of this book, particularly in the first half. I found myself highlighting passages to go back to later because I loved them so much. I would rate the first part of about four or five stars. The second half of the book was good, but read like an adapted screenplay, it felt like strings of scenes and acts and dialogue without the cohesiveness of the first part of the book. Overall, it was good and I would definitely read it again and recommend to others.
I picked this up because of its intriguing title and my childhood love of Madeleine L'Engle's Wrinkle in Time series. However, I was disappointed that there was no plot and little character development in the book. Kept reading hoping for something interesting to happen but it never came. Wouldn't recommend. Only plus was that it created a lovely little country atmosphere and built up a nice setting, which was pleasant to be immersed into.
Not my favorite L'Engle workI love all of L'engle's work. This book was a little strange though. The entire basis is one man's obsession with a girl from childhood through much of his adult life. While still good, this was my least favorite of Madeleine L'engle's work so far.The ebook edition also needs some more editing. There were many typos and while most of them I could figure out from context, a couple were quite confusing and in general they were just distracting.
Intriguing story of a young girl who grows up near the ocean in an unconventional household, and the boy who meets her, and falls in love, even though he is three years younger, a vast age difference when you are ten and thirteen respectively ... this being a book by Madeleine L’Engle, the childhood parts are best, but on the whole an entertaining read ...
This is the first of L'Engle's adult books that I have read. The time is in the early 1900's in the South. The Confederacy is not dead, and "old" ways are to be treasured. I found Henry-the eternal admirer of Ilsa-very frustrating. The ending was at first unsatisfactory, but I then realized it was typical for a L'Engle book.
First published over 60 years ago, this book has a different style than most novels today. It is slow and meandering, detailing the life of Ilsa Brandes over the course of 30 or more years. It is told in the first person - not by Ilsa, but by her friend Henry. It was probably 100 pages too long, and the ending was maddening. But it was still an enjoyable read, even if not that exciting.
I have read every Madeleine L'Engle novel and while I like some much better than others I enjoy all of them at least in part. This is not one of my favorite books by her but it is still quite good. Her writing style always engages me and I find at least one character in every one of her books that I can relate to in some way.
Utterly detestable book that only a woman could write about a man who pines for a woman who is knowingly using him as her friend while at the same time knowing that he loves her very much. Finally, after years of unrequited love and her paramours, he decides to move on. Good riddance to bad soup!.
Nice descriptive writing, and I liked the setting of the early 19th century South (as written in 1946), but reading about 30 years of Henry’s unrequited love made me like him less and less as the book progressed — and that was it, nothing really happened... like, nothing.
Always a journey that stays with youHer worlds are what get me first. She builds them into such tactile layers. Then the characters with such a true sense of being. She is one of the few authors I have read over and over and I will have to return to Ilisa again.
A lovely book about ordinary people. Well, not all are, but even their "specialness" is more in the ordinary vein. Realistic. A morass of Southern conformity and ideas about family and what is proper, yet told with enough grace and distance that I didn't flee from it as I did in my own youth.
