https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/14180.Selected_Stories_of_Philip_K_Dick
Who better to select stories from his entire oeuvre spanning three decades?The 21 stories contained in this collection are as follows:“Beyond Lies the Wub” (1952), “Roog” (1953), “Paycheck” (1953), “Second Variety” (1953), “Imposter” (1953), “The King of the Elves” (1953), “Adjustment Team” (1954), “Foster, You’re Dead” (1955), “Upon the Dull Earth” (1954), “Autofac” (1955), “The Minority Report” (1956), “The Days of Perky Pat” (1963), “Precious Artifact” (1964), “A Game of Unchance” (1964), “We Can Remember It For You Wholesale” (1966), “Faith of Our Fathers” (1967), “The Electric Ant” (1969), “A Little Something For Us Tempunauts” (1974), “The Exit Door Leads In” (1979), “Rautavaara’s Case” (1980), and “I Hope I Shall Arrive Soon” (1980).The first 11 stories are from his most prolific period in the early 1950s, and overlap with Collected Stories of Philip K.
I've read a lot of PK Dick and I truly love, love, love!
If you are looking for beautifully crafted sentences with a sensual or startling command of words, then, sorry man, time to move on.
If you are looking for some seriously wacked out ideas, plots, characters, situations...
If you are going to read only one Dick...
this short story compilation is the one.
Philip K Dick's writing works best in the short story format.
I got this particular compilation because I love Dick (heh) plus the introduction by Jonathan Lethem (who was my current art crush of the time).
The basis for the Tom Cruise movie of the same name.The Days of Perky Pat: In a post apocalyptic America, where the human survivors are looked after by benevolent martians, the people occupy themselves by playing "Perky Pat".Precious Artifact: In this story a Terraforming engineer on Mars has doubts about how Earth has fared in an interstellar war.
But within each of these banal sci-fi subjects, Dick explores deep literary themes.In this collection, like much of his work, Dick wrote about religion and God's relation with respect to humans, but not in any sort of static or dogmatic ways.
A delightful way to spend American colonial Independence Day: reading the paranoiac fantasies spawned by the pressures of conformity, consumerism, and irrational reality.
Philip K Dick is the Kafka of scifi - or maybe just the Kafka of America - endlessly paranoid and inventive. It's dangerous to read too many of his stories in a row; they start to run together. But then, so does Borges. My favorite right now is the last story in this collection, "I Hope I Shall Arrive Shortly."
2,5 ster - Letterlijk elk verhaal in deze bundel: "I had this idea for a story.
There's a Competent Protagonist and his Charming yet Irrelevant [Wife / Girlfriend / Secretary].
Our everyman hero is exposed to or discovers some strange situation likely involving time travel or aliens or technology beyond his ability to comprehend.
Then the situation is resolved, perhaps with a twist ending."Het was 30 jaar geleden vast briljant, maar nu is het irritant en voorspelbaar.
Also, ik snap dat de koude oorlog een ding was, maar moeten dan in bijna elk verhaal de Sovjet-Unie en Amerika elkaar helemaal plat hebben gebombardeerd?
The new Matt Damon hyperkinetic action movie The Adjustment Bureau is based on the PDK short story The Adjustment Team, in this collection. The New York Times review of the movie, “ Creepy People With a Plan, and a Couple on the Run ” is surprisingly positive. The last word: “As it turns out, romance for grown-ups isn’t dead in Hollywood — it’s just been on extended leave.”I’m pleased that Manohla Dargis, in her review, agrees with my analysis of the appeal of PDK. She just says it better:One re
The new Matt Damon hyperkinetic action movie The Adjustment Bureau is based on the PDK short story The Adjustment Team, in this collection.
The New York Times review of the movie, “
The last word: “As it turns out, romance for grown-ups isn’t dead in Hollywood — it’s just been on extended leave.”I’m pleased that Manohla Dargis, in her review, agrees with my analysis of the appeal of PDK.
I don't mean to totally knock PKD because his readers can't deny that he had some amazing ideas that were steps ahead of his contemporaries.
Likewise I enjoy his excursions into self and time and what both of those truly mean.My complaint with most of these stories is that they tend to turn out like this:PKD: "I had this idea for a story.
Our everyman hero is exposed to or discovers some strange situation likely involving time travel or aliens or technology beyond his ability to comprehend.
Then the situation is resolved, perhaps with a twist ending."Reader: "Sounds like fun!
He is one of them now!!"..The stories are a touch-and-go kind..They lead on the reader, in favour of his/her suspicions..And WHAM!!..down goes the white flag of truce between Dick and the reader, as he shoots us down with epiphanies..All I can say is : Dick is good..real good at the "Whoa!!" moments..And these being short stories, one can easily make a guess at his genius in getting the readers riled up with such short accounts..So impressed I was/am that I think each of his stories deserve a mention with their own ratings..3★ Beyond Lies the Wub3★ Roog3.5★ Paycheck4.5★ Second Variety3.5★ Imposter 3★ The King of the Elves 3★ Adjustment Team 3★ Foster, You're Dead!3★ Upon the Dull Earth3.5★ Autofac 3.5★ The Minority Report 
Because there have been so many movies made of his short stories and novels ("Total Recall," "Blade Runner," "Minority Report," "The Adjustment Bureau," etc.), there are undoubtedly many people who, while they are familiar with the works of Philip K. Dick, are not familiar with his name. Dick lived in the Bay Area for much of his life, graduating from Berkeley High School and attending the University of California. Many of his stories take place in the Bay Area, including the novel "Do Androids
Because there have been so many movies made of his short stories and novels ("Total Recall," "Blade Runner," "Minority Report," "The Adjustment Bureau," etc.), there are undoubtedly many people who, while they are familiar with the works of Philip K.
Many of his stories take place in the Bay Area, including the novel "Do Androids Dream of Electric Sheep?" and several of his short stories.
As with many but certainly not all science fiction writers, Dick was not very much concerned with developing a sense of place or deep characterization in these stories.
Dick’s stories use many of the vehicles of science fiction, including time travel, post-apocalyptic scenes, Mars colonies, and androids.
I started with The Man in the High Castle, and since it was pretty damn good, I picked up this collection of short stories from the library.While it was cool to read the source work for such films as The Adjustment Bureau & Minority Report, it doesn't take long to figure out the man was a bit schizophrenic and had some mental health issues.
Which is not to say the stories aren't good, because they certainly are.
It's a cool read, and I always like well-written short story collections for summer anyway (e.g., Vonnegut's Welcome to the Monkey House).
Adoro i trip mentali.
La mia prima "partenza",  da piccola leggendo "La Bella Addormentata nel Bosco".
Dormire cent'anni e poi risvegliarsi.
E se stessi dormendo pure io da anni?
E se quella che penso essere la realtà fosse un sogno e il sogno la mia realtà?
Capirete che quando ho scoperto Dick, non ho potuto fare a meno di rimanere incantata da questo autore.
Ora, questa raccolta di 21 racconti è qualcosa di stupefacente (passatemi il termine) ed è oggettivamente impossibile che non possa piacere (anche ai non appassionati di fantascienza).
Leggete Dick punto.
¿Por qué, si este libro es de la época de la Ciencia Ficción donde hay cohetes y robots que funcionan con cintas, se siente menos prehistórico que Neuromancer, que tiene Softwares y Megabytes?Me gustó el hecho de que todos los cuentos del libro tienen cohesión entre sí, a pesar de haber sido escritos en épocas diferentes e incluso para publicaciones distintas.
Hay muchos detallitos que insinúan un Universo compartido.Uno de esos detallitos es la colonización de Marte, y qué oso estar leyendo uno de los cuentos e irte imaginando los detalles para inmediatamente después notar que sí, es El Vengador del Futuro ¿Debo empezar a visualizar al protagonista como Arnold Scharzenegger?
The biggest gripe I have with his style is that the characters are basically useless.
Each male protagonist is basically the same as the one before, and female characters always play the same roles.
But Dick really brings the creepiness and suspense, and I enjoyed most of the stories.
I have a hard time rating this book, because story-wise, I liked them to give them a three-star rating.
The collection of the stories is great, though, and I feel like I've read a variety of some of the best of his short stories, so I would say it's a four-star collection.
I came across this book during one of my daily emailings from Book-Bub. The cost was $1.99 which to my mind is a bargain for any Phillip K.
Dick novel.
I could not even find this title in Goodreads.
The forward is written by Jonathan Lethem.
I tried cross-referencing but to no avail.
A fabulous collection.
Some of the great stories: Adjustment Bureau, Minority Report, Electric Ant and others.
Phillip Dick is one of the great sci-fi writers.
I don't write often to review but I just have to throw in how much fun this compilation was to read.
Dick is really from the older list of masters and the quality of his work is immediate.
Simple, no waste and full to the brim with ideas that resonate even today.
The real shame is that he couldn't reap the rewards for his work.
One can guess by the themes, style and such but it would have been nice to relate the tale to the time period in his writing.
Dick you would be hard pressed to find a better collection.
This was one of my rare forays into dystopian and Science Fiction stories, and my first exposure with Philip K. Dick's work. Some stories are peppered with paranoia, hopelessness, of men in the future with the same domestic problems and fears that seemed more in common with Richard Yates and John Cheever of the 1950s and 1960s, replete with references to Cold War paranoia. Stories like Paycheck and We Can Remember it for you Wholesale and The Minority Report are all masters in the craft of fiction and suspense, fraught with tension and sadness.
It took me a while to go through this first experience with PKD and I'm still overwhelmed by the sheer force of his premonitory imagination. Literature is a mere vessel to his intellectual exercises, at which he excels in insightfulness and novelty, dwelling very deep into the science fiction territory and daring to go far in the fields of transhumanism, transcendence and future studies. If he was a religion, I'd definitely be on the brink of conversion right now.
Despite the fact that several good movies have been made from his stories, I started off early in this book thinking, this guy is really overrated. But by the time I had finished these twenty-one stories, I had reversed myself. Some of these stories, while simple on the surface, contain incredibly complex ideas. My favorite is "I Hope I Shall Arrive Soon" which is stunningly creepy.
A great collection of science fiction short stories. They are full of paranoia and questions about human meaning and existence, which are trademarks of Philip K. Dick's work. There are a few fantasy stories in the collection as well, but they are mainly thought provoking and socially critical dystopian and post-apocalyptic stories, which was what I was hoping for.
Some really good short stories here. Plus a wide range of topics. Philip Dick is an excellent short stories writer. None are too strange like some of his novels. Two are the basis for movies which surprised me in a way since they are only barely recognizable as the same themes. Unfortunately none are totally "Wow!".
It was fun. After reading We Can Remember It For You Wholesale, I think Total Recall did it better, though the story was better than Ghost In The Shell which touches on the same subjects.Minority Report had some elements that really should have made it to the film.
The strange and sad stories are my favorites.
*****“Introduction, by Jonathan Lethem”“Dick weilded a sardonic yet heartbroken acuity about the plight of being alive in the twentieth centry, one that makes hima lonely hero to the reders who cherish him.… personal vision of paranoia and dislocation.” (p.xii) * sardonic = grimly mocking or cynical.* acuity = sharpness or keenness of thought, vision, or hearing.- - - “His people eke out their days precariously, never knowing whether disaster is about to come at the level of the psychological, the ontological, or the pharmacological.” (p.viii)* pharmacological = relating to the branch of medicine concerned with the uses, effects, and modes of action of drugs.- - - “Dick eraned his collar as High Priest of the Paranids … everyone is always about to be arrested.” (p.viii)- - -* solipsism = the view or theory that the self is all that can be known to exist.
A very interesting reading.
It was especially enlightening to see how film adaptations actually worked, how little was kept of the original plot.
I must agree that I tend to prefer these short stories to the novels, but that doesn't mean I don't absolutely love most of his novels.
Having never read a word of Philip K.
Dick's (but having seen plenty movies based on his stories and novels) I thought it was time to dive in.
Having done so, I have to conclude that Philip K.
this would make a GREAT movie!" One can only conclude that Dick's work, after Blade Runner and Total Recall and others, is just seen by Hollywood as "safe".Unexpectedly, my favorite story was one I was not expecting to be impressed by: "The Minority Report".
The amazing stories were the last 6 and are what elevated the rating of this collection of P.K.D's stories for me to 4 stars.
Reading this book was worth it, just for the last 6 stories alone.
I recommend it, especially the last 6 stories.
I do not know if the stories were in chronological order as to when they were written, but that would make sense to me since the last 6 stories seemed to have been the culmination and climax of P.K.D's writing powers in this collection.Overall I thoroughly enjoyed reading this book even with the 8 stories that in my opinion weren't all that great.
The early ones were a bit too workmanlike--and later they all tended to sound the same (due to his obsession with his one theme).
Like "I Hope I Shall Arrive Soon"--which is just A Maze Of Death.
"Exit Door"'s style was funny--although it suffered from Philism--and "Rautavaara" had a funny point to make as well.
Maybe the best story of the whole bunch was "Wholesale." "Perky Pat" was from Palmer Eldritch (right?).
"King Of the Elves" uncharacteristic.
I liked "Foster, You're Dead" (despite the possible heavy-handedness).
Practically self-parody (or something like that).
Some stories are entertaining actions thrillers, others are philosophical meditations -- either way, Dick's worlds are fleshed out and his conclusions pack a punch. I will say that the protagonists in these stories often feel a bit interchangeable, but that's my only major issue.Especially recommended: "Paycheck," "Foster, You're Dead," "The Days of Perky Pat," "Faith of Our Fathers," and "A Little Something for Us Tempunauts."
A bit hit and miss, as always with Dick' writing. But at 20 pages or so apiece, you're on to the next story quickly. Interesting to see the originals of some film adaptations. "Minority Report" actually resembles the film quite a bit, but the film Total Recall used only the main concept of "We Can Remember It for You Wholesale."
