https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/17349023-we-are-water
In the past I have LOVED Wally Lamb's books so much, that I was just so excited to hear that he had a new book coming out.
Knowing Wally Lamb and the way he writes women so well, I couldn't WAIT to get into this woman's head and hear her story.
The only love story we do hear about is Annie's with her ex-husband, and that IS believable for a woman looking to escape a horrible youth and time in the foster system.
I don't think I can recommend this book to ANYONE, unless you want to try to understand how someone can become a pedophile.
I practically celebrate every time Wally Lamb publishes a new novel.
Few writers can address divorce, sexual abuse, incest, child abuse, gay marriage and religion all in one book and make it work.
And few writers can make me wish their book would never end.We Are Water methodically takes us through the failure of a marriage and fractures of a family that are caused, primarily, by the dark secrets of artist Annie Oh, wife of Dr. Orion Oh. Annie's secrets begin on the night of a horrendous flood that tragically causes the deaths of her mother and baby sister when Annie is five-years old.
I loved Wally Lamb's 'I Know This Much Is True', it's one of my all-time favorite books.
So, it's hard for Lamb to compete with my love for that book.
Some dialogue at the end of the book felt unnecessary, neither serving to move the story forward or reveal more about the characters or their conflicts.
Lamb writes two major conflicts into this story.
This was an easy and enjoyable read with likeable characters.
My expectations might have been unrealistic, it's hard to top an all-time favorite.I would guess that most readers will like this book.
Before anybody is allowed to say, “I do,” in “We Are Water,” a whole family of injured people must walk down the aisle muttering their sorrows.Emotional and physical wounds have long been Lamb’s territory, explored in the Oprah-blessed blockbusters “She’s Come Undone” and “I Know This Much Is True” and his wrenching novel about the Columbine shooting, “The Hour I First Believed.” But despite its vast registry of topical troubles, “We Are Water” still feels like something borrowed, something blue.The story comes to us as a series of soliloquies delivered — chapter by chapter — by the distressed members of the Oh family.
This book changed my outlook on things --Its heavy and its long -- It deals with abuse -paedophilia --and 'many' life issues to look at deeply -from all sides - look inside ourselves while following the characters story -at the same time.I know it got mixed reviews when it came out -- but IMO -- It was a very ambitious novel to write.
Note: If any of my local book club friends are reading ---This novel would be a GREAT PICK for our group!*Cathrine* already wrote a BEAUTIFUL review of this GEM -of a novel ---I, too, have a 'quote' to add: (This quote will not spoil the story)"But then I read an article in 'TIMES', YOUR-BRAIN-ON-FICTION, and what a gift.
Ostensibly the story of an artist who leaves her husband for another woman, Anna Oh does not emerge as the hero or even protagonist of this story.
I think her lesbianism is a hook; Anna is never well fleshed out as a character, but reamains only a plot device.
The real hero is Orion Oh, the forsaken husband who is- quel suprise-a shrink.
A secondary hero is his son Andrew, also a victim and alsoa shrink, but who grows and develops as a character.
And why is the only black character in the book the only one to speak in dialect, I ax you?
Even considering the abhorrent issues of racism, child abuse and paedophilia covered here, We Are Water has not haunted me as did his earlier I Know This Much Is True; indeed, IKTMIT may be the standard by which Lamb is measured always.
And then you can barely contain yourself and rattle off about ten titles in two seconds and get this from them?:And then you're all like: Well, anyway...when these wonderful gem moments come along, I always say these two books first: She's Come UndoneI Know This Much Is TrueAlways.
After reading both She's Come Undone and I Know This Much Is True many times, I have come to put Wally Lamb on a pedestal.
Four Wally loving stars-------------------------------------------------------------------------What?WHAT?!How did I not know Wally Lamb had a new book?
She's Come Undone, I Know This Much Is True and The Hour I First Believed were wonderful masterpieces written by Wally Lamb.
I wonder who really wrote his latest book!
Surely not the Wally Lamb whose writing I love.
I, along with many others, waited so long for him to write another book and I was so disappointed in this one.
It rambled all over the place and was just words on many pages saying nothing.
The shallow self-absorbed characters who constantly spilled their thoughts on many pages were not at all interesting and there was little dialogue interaction between the characters.
You manage to gift wrap issues of child abuse, assault, incest, religion, homosexuality, art, biracial relationships into a neat and compact story.
I have to admit, a quarter way through I wasn't sure you'd be able to pull it off.
Water is a recurring theme throughout the story - how circumstances change the fluidity of our lives and pulls us into directions that shape and define who we are.
I have to admit, I did get protagonist confusion and frustration at some points; however, I plodded on and found I will remain forever a loyal Lamb fan.
A hundred pages in and I wasn't even sure if I liked it.
Lamb bounces back and forth between point-of-view chapters of nearly every character, focusing mostly on Annie, Orion, and their three children.
Those chapters are certainly tough to read, and I even threw the book down on the floor when another one from his point of view started up.
Though I labored through the first 200 pages, the second half breezed by as the plot picked up and the revelations came fast and furious.Ultimately, though, there were few characters I cherished in this book, unlike Dolores Price in Lamb's "She's Come Undone" and the twin brothers in "I Know This Much Is True." Annie, Orion, their children, and the rest of the characters -- even the pedophile -- are nuanced and thoughtful.
You can’t seem to tell who the bad guys and the good guys are in this story.Ultimately this book tells the tale of outsiders; that society considers to be different from the “norm.” It tells the story of Annie and Orion Oh through their own tales, those of their family and those who shaped their lives.
By the end you feel as if you know the Ohs and you can’t help experiencing their stories deeply.
I think this is Lamb’s most powerful book since “I know this much is true.”
Orion Oh, a psychologist; his wife, Annie; and their three children, twins Ariane and Andrew, and the baby, Marissa are at the core of the story.
Annie and Orion tell their story in alternating voices, and the children occasionally speak through a chapter, as well.
Annie's cousin Kent tells his story, and a few other voices chime in to make a very good harmony.
I was so immersed in the Oh family's lives that everything else in my life faded out for awhile."We are Water" spans about 50 years of Annie Oh's life.
I had never read Wally Lamb's work before I received We Are Water in a Goodreads Giveaway.
Namely, I would warn readers to maintain an emotional release valve when engaging with as intense a novel as this one.
Unintentionally, I ended up reading a really un-psychological, action-oriented novel alongside this one.
I was grateful for something that bore less scrutiny and so had less pull on my emotions and intellect...perhaps some guilty pleasure television would serve many readers well?
I am very grateful to have read this book, and I look forward to reading more of Lamb's writing.
I don't want to talk about it. Let's just say "Chinese Water Torture" and leave it at that, shall we?
Leading up to the weekend of Annie and Viveca's wedding in Three Rivers, Connecticut (a location familiar to Lamb's audience), readers are given a history of Annie's life and that of the Oh family, changing narrators along the way.
The closer to the wedding they get, the more difficult and brutal the secrets are to hear.The characters in We Are Water, are unmistakably Wally Lamb's - flawed, raw, emotional, and real.
We Are Water is a monster of a book at just under 600 pages, but even with the heavy themes and intense emotional scenes, Wally Lamb has a way of drawing his readers into the pages.
If you also feel that attempting to digest all of these subjects may lead to indigestion, once again, you may be correct.Utilizing flashbacks the novel retraces the 27 year marriage and break-up of half-Chinese, half-Italian university psychologist and his wife, an artist who creates her "art" from the cast-offs of others, as well as the lives of their three children as all attempt to deal with the painful truths in their individual lives related to the above referenced subject matter.Like water, some of the characters in this book are initially shallow and self absorbed, others pursue lives that are turbulent and dangerous, while still others attempt to just "go with the flow" but find themselves caught up in the current with lives spiraling out of control.A couple of observations and complaints: Item #1 - Once again Lamb has managed to squeeze in a few political comments as he takes some jabs at the previous resident of the White House, praises the current occupant, bemoans the lack of funding for stem cell research, and portrays Texas as a bastion of Christian conservative racists and bigots.
I was probably 15 or 16 the first time I read it, over a decade later and having reread it countless times it's still as powerful as ever.
It's not that this is a bad book or story, the issue is that it is no way on par with Lambs previous work.
Being sucked in and spit out by the story line is such a hallmark of Lamb's work ,to find that missing from this book was a major disappointment.
Will I reread it or recommend it with the enthusiasm of his previous work, probably not.
I've been an avid fan of Wally Lamb's for many, many years and had such excitement when I learned he had a new book out.
I'm sad to say this one was a disappointment to me in some major ways, although I did grasp the over all story and could appreciate what Mr. Lamb's intention was in telling it.
Does this tell you something?While I expected it to be a book that was focused more on the story of a lesbian couple, it really wasn't.
I finished it because it was a Wally Lamb book and I really wanted to push my way through it hoping it would get better.
I don't want to be "that person" but I read "She's come undone" before it was on Oprah's book club and it was a firm favourite of mine from the get go.
Maybe I have come to expect too much but I almost felt like this was an attempt by someone else to write a Wally Lamb novel.
Jesus I feel like a mean girl even saying it but it, I love the ocean too and find my time there very spiritual but bring it back down a notch with the dead whales and seals Wally.
Annie's secrets, whilst tragic, feels borrowed from True Blood and "She's come undone".
Great readers--Guidall, Ballerini, Ferrone, Gilbert, Read, and the author himself--read separate sections and become that character, that voice, interpreting other characters and events and adding layers to the story.
Organized as it is with sections told be each of the major characters (and their stories intertwine as the characters reappear and reveal more), this is an elegantly written story of families and secrets and memories and how the past affects the present and future.
Each telling reveals more, a different past and a slightly different present, reflected through the character's perspective.
Beautifully written, rich in issues and characters, framed by art, family relationships, memories.
It also kind of hurts to know that I can't really rave about him now - not with this last Lamb novel I've read hanging over me.
I think I have to go read I Know This Much is True just to refresh the palate.Jeez, Wally.
I can't say this didn't have its good moments (this IS Wally Lamb after all) - I especially liked the early chapters from Annie and Orion, as they were reliving their dating days.
oh, so art judge Angello who awarded Annie's first painting also liked Jones' paintings?
I just love Wally Lamb! In everything I've read from him, he has such a gorgeous knack for creating real, flawed characters that we can fall in love with (or at least understand, even the worst of them). We Are Water is no exception. It's a beautiful, heart-rending look into what makes a family, what makes art, what makes us human. You'll laugh. You'll cry. You'll read the final pages slowly because you don't want it to end....
I'll read anything Wally Lamb writes. My favorite is still I Know This Much is True.
They follow the arc of lives, allow the characters to seep in secrets, touch upon sensitive topics, unfold slowly over the course of hundreds of pages and leave the reader not only drawn into world which he so beautifully writes, but aching because they know they will have to sit and wait while he produces another -- a wait that will feel unforgivably long.In his latest offering WE ARE WATER, as he has in the past novels This Much I Know Is True and The Hour I First Believed, Lamb returns us to quiet town of Three Rivers, Connecticut to bare witness to legacy of the Oh's.Annie Oh is a `angry' artist.
I love Wally Lamb`s books; they are so character driven and I always find myself fully absorbed in his writing. Wonderful.
I love Wally Lamb`s books; they are so character driven and I always find myself fully absorbed in his writing. Wonderful.
The protagonist was the victim of childhood sexual abuse and this has permeated every aspect of her life and influenced how she related to her husband and her children.
The three children of her marriage were not fully developed--or at least not interesting enough in their own rights to move the narration along.
The women the artist married was also not a sympathetic person but a stock type--a rich lesbian who bought her way into love and art.
The husband had an interesting back story but this was not fully developed and his late in the novel wounding was again not carefully developed--it seemed gratuitous to the story.
A difficult book to judge.
The book itself actually jogged along quite nicely most of the way.
I became quite attached to Orion and sort of understood Annie although I could not condone her child abuse.
The chapter written by Kent was so confronting I skipped a lot of it.
But then came the awful final chapters.
Annie's final act of child abuse in disclosing to the one person she should not have told - ever.
And what happens to Orion.
Was that even necessary?
Was the whole epilogue thing necessary?
I listened to the audio of this book and loved it.
The voices were perfect for the characters being portrayed.
Wally Lamb narrates the part of Orion and it worked wonderfully.
I loved this story of family relationships, love and secrets that ripple through the generations.
This is a story of a marriage that failed; how and why.
And it's more than that; it's family, resilience, strength.
I love the title and how it shows the core of this story.
Wally Lamb can write a good story and this is one of them.
I love Wally Lamb, but this was my least favorite of his current four books. :( I felt the story was really unsatisfying - hundreds and hundreds of pages of exposition wrapped up in a 30-ish page conclusion.
