https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/84644.The_Little_Grey_Men
The last gnomes in Britain, three tiny brothers, decide to go looking for their missing brother Cloudberry, who sailed up the river two years ago and never returned.This book ought to be on the same list of British countryside classics as Watership Down and The Wind In The Willows, which it somewhat resembles.
In 1942, according to the author, there were only four gnomes left in Britain; now, one supposes, there are none.
Do gnomes with names like "Cloudberry" sound too twee for your taste?Never fear, you can still enjoy this book for its endless description of vegetation and scenery.
First published in 1942 this glorious read won the Carnegie Medal for the most outstanding children’s book of that year and has been reissued several times ; it’s latest incarnation is this kindle version, which will hopefully find it a whole new audience.
Although not idealised, it is wonderfully descriptive and he does not shy away from the fact that his central characters live off the countryside.
Sometimes, times are hard and sometimes bountiful, but there it is a place of both beauty and danger.Our central characters are the three last gnomes in Britain – Baldmoney, Sneezewort and Dodder.
He's just trying to get his vision out and at the same time tell a ripping story.BB has illustrated the book with his own woodcuts and they are Arthur Rackham masterful.Oh yeah, storyline: after living on the side of Folly Brook for several thousand years, three gnomes decide to venture upstream to find their lost brother Cloudberry, and what happened to them on the way.This is not your ordinary kid's adventure fantasy.
More like a hymn to nature that happens to include great gnome characters having ripping adventures.
I can honestly say "The Little Grey Men" remains my favorite book from grade school.
For a boy who grew up in the wild, wild west, this book--with its view of nature, its penchant for adventure, characters who remain true to themselves, and enough tinkering to keep Santa happy--was a happy, magical escape from school and chores.
Some years back I found a 1949 version on eBay just so I could have a copy close to the one I read in 5th grade.
I also have new paperbacks of this and the sequel.
I'm sure it was B.B.
And if I was to choose my favourite book of the year, it would be 'The Little Grey Men' by BB (Denys Watkins-Pitchford).A children's book (nothing to do with aliens) and the epic story of the last gnomes in England, who explore upstream in search of their missing brother.My Dad read it to us when we were young and I’ve been waiting for my daughter to become old enough to appreciate it too (she was six when I read it to her).
For a story packed with wonder, adventure, warmth, and dread, that'll appeal to young and old, you can't really go wrong with this story.
The story of the last Gnomes in England. This was read to me as a child and all I remembered of it was that I loved it. It was just as enjoyable re-read as an adult.
This is a very good children's book and would make very good reading for a child over 8 years old.
It is also delightfully illustrated by the author.Negatives: This book was first published in 1942 and some of its prejudices from that era can jar on occasion.
As well as being a nature lover the author was also a hunter so not everyone will like the hunting aspect.
There is also a derogatory and patronizing comment about women, and all the main characters are male.It is J.R.R. Tolkein without the fantasy being predominant, and like Wind In The Willows but with less anthropomorphism.In every book he wrote B.
When their brother--a fourth gnome, named Cloudberry--has been absent for a year on a lone adventure up the Folly, the other three decide, after much debate, to go looking for him.The Little Grey Men is one of the early, and best-remembered, novels of prolific naturalist writer Denys Watkins-Pitchford, who wrote under the pseudonym B.B. The book is a wonderful portrait of the vanishing English countryside and, thematically, leans more toward the author’s naturalist interests than toward wee-folk fantasy stuff.
A few murky, frightening scenes like this one may be too much for especially sensitive, younger children.
Read as a borrowed book from local library when I was about 8 - suggested by good librarian.Author name is difficult as he was only named as B.B.I had to ask my busy mother about meanings of some words when I read it.It is about four little gnomes living near a brook called The Holly, which is a stream of water.
I would love to have someone read this book to me in an English accent!
I read this book because I saw it on an internet list of books people loved as children, and stayed with them throughout life.
I loved the way the author wove the story around life in the British countryside...the gnomes and other "fairy folk" are well described and interesting.
He also used language beautifully to name the animals in the wood:Bub'ms- rabbitswood pigs - hedgehogswood dog - foxAnd the names of the gnomes are just magical:SneezewortBaldmoneyDodderand CloudberryThe story is like something an adult would tell a child over the course of many bedtimes, and outdoor adventure with gnomes...that eventually (and charmingly) find a child's wind up boat that helps them get back to their home!

What a lovely tale.
I read about this in Countryfile magazine which highly recommended it as suitable for both children and adults.
I cannot agree more.
The tale takes us back into beautiful olde england, with tales of the adventures of the last 4 gnomes in Britain.
Beautiful descriptions of all things nature, animals and creatures (Stream People) come alive.
There are wood dogs (foxes), hedgepigs (hedgehogs!), Kingfishers, Otters, Bub,ms (rabbits), Heaven Hounds (Geese), snooty pheasants to name but a few!
Oh and of course there is a "giant" the baddie of the tale!Was sorry that the tale had to end but now I'm looking forward to reading the sequel.
BB's children's classic introduces the reader to the gnomes eye view of life beside the river.
When one of the gnome companions fails to return after going searching for the source of the river, his three friends set off to look for him.
Dangers and problems abound as the gnomes journey upstream and as autumn draws on to autumn their journey seems increasingly foolhardy .
When the gnomes are tossed up by a storm on an island in the middle of a lake, having lost their boat and fast running out of food the situation turns desperate but salvation comes from a very unexpected and curious source.
A very gentle, sedate fantasy adventure, with just a few moments of high excitement. I give it four stars for the quality of the writing, although I usually like fantasy novels with more of the fantasy equivalent of car chases, explosions and alien invasions. The characterization is good enough that one does suffer along with the gnomes, lots of angst hoping for their safe journey and eventual reunion. If you invest the effort into really getting into the book then I think it pays off, although it might take a bit of doing.
stands the text of time quite nicely this one, telling the story not just of the last four gnomes in england, but of nature, and the countryside as a whole.we felt we learnt a few things about the british wildlife and its habitats,
The author also wrote nonfiction titles for adults about the natural world--you can tell in the loving, detailed descriptions of flora and fauna. Adventure, humor, excitement, and rich writing.
All year as I walked with Dennis past the little brook at Forty Hall I have thought at Christmas I will revisit this magical world of my youth and I am so glad I did. BB has a wonderful way of making nature spring out of his pages, and as a child reading this you have a magical story interspersed with facts about the countryside. Trivia note This was Syd Barrett’s favourite book! Highly recommended for children of all ages!
I bought the beautiful Slightly Foxed edition of this wonderful book and read it for the first time as an adult and was transported to another world. I loved it. Beautiful phrases and descriptions of life in the folly brook and their adventure upstream. “Two little shivers crept up two little spines”. Perfect.
Wonderful story about gnomes (little people) living by a small river and their interaction with all the riverside creatures. Great fishermen! Their journeys bring great adventures. Superb feel for the countryside comes through the writing, a real strength of B.B.
Absolutely delightful. Full of natural history and sweet folklore.
Charming. Probably a 3.5 Star but read at this point in my life, it was a great comfort so gets the round up to 4.
Three gnome brothers - Baldmoney, Dodder and Sneezewort - decide to search for their more adventurous brother Cloudberry, who went upstream to find the source of the Folly Brook and never returned.This lyrical ode to the wonders of nature is a leisurely read, meandering even, with a few close calls and dangerous misadventures thrown in for good measure.
To their great surprise however, Cloudberry is waiting at home for them, and they have a great feast with all their animal friends.In the same vein as Wind in the Willows, The Little Grey Men wends its patient way like the Folly Brook itself, its pages peppered with lovingly descriptive passages.
The gnomes bicker like brothers, but show great resilience and determination when it's called for.
Some of my favorite descriptors - "sherry-brown deeps," "a deep vandyke brown," "ruddy light," and "the color of ripe old ale." This storyteller talks directly to his audience of young readers as he tells of three gnomes who daringly set out to track down their gnome friend Cloudberry.
Most of the natives are friendly, except for the stoat and wood-dog (fox), and there are many comfortable stories of the gnomes fishing, frying up their minnows and interacting with their forest and stream friends.The adventure comes to a satisfactory conclusion following an unplanned excursion on a large toy ship lost by a youngster on his birthday, which was certainly fun to imagine.
A long-lost fairy tale that remains a timeless classic.
Easily evoking the beauty of the English countryside, the ever-shifting changing of the seasons and the stout heart that lies within even the smallest breasts, this simple tale of the last three gnomes setting out in search of their long-lost brother is something to treasure.
Written in 1942, it also contains a startling, quiet message about the wanton slaughter of animals and the despoiling of nature that wouldn’t be out of place in any modern environmentalist’s treatise.
It will bring nature to life for them even better than the Discovery Channel.

Set by a stream in Warwickshire (the most enchanting of English counties) it tells the story of the last gnomes in England who go on a search to find their missing brother Cloudberry.
The story is interesting enough on its own, but the descriptions of flora, fauna and faerie along with the magical illustrations by the author make it perfect.
It should be considered as great an English children's masterpiece as 'The Wind in the Willows' or 'The Lion, the Witch and the Wardrobe' and yet few have heard of it.
Excellent read!
Love the way BB describes the gnomes' environment; I especially love his implementation of plant names and uncommon woodland terms (like spinney, coppice and copse).
I also encountered two words for which I struggled to find official definitions: shillet and stickle.
I'm a sucker for obscure words, and this book has them in spades (without being unreadable).
The characters are charming, and the plot takes several wonderful twists and turns (as do the gnomes as they traverse that old Folly).
I just realized I've finished nearly every sentence in this review with a remark in parentheses (a fact of which I'm quite proud)!!
This book is exactly what a good book for children should be!
Written in such a way, that even adult readers can't bring themselves to put it aside this book presents an engrossing tale about three gnomes who set out on a quest to find their brother.An audio version of this book is even more magnificent.
The narrator skilfully wields his voice making you believe that it's not a usual man you are listening to, but different characters from the book who have suddenly come alive.
It's like a good one-man show that won't leave you cold.This truly is "a Story for the Young in Heart".
