https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/24453082-big-magic
Art is about personal endeavour and creativity, and in many ways can't be "taught." But there was a section in this book where Gilbert is very against creative related higher education.
I agree that no one should feel that they need to pay crazy amounts of money to feel like a proper artist, but I really disagree with the idea that higher education is useless or worthless and gives you nothing but debt.
And in its place, she asks all people who feel called to create (writers, painters, musicians, whatever) to quietly and joyfully accept their creative inclinations and ideas as gifts from the universe.
Which means even though this side passion feels so authentically “me,” I hide it so people won’t think I’m a loser, an imposter, a wannabe, an embarrassment, a failure…and the list goes on.
Or if you do worry that you need a permission slip—THERE, I just gave it to you… Now go make something.”In other words, Gilbert’s message is this: just accept that you need to create.
Despite being utterly let down with her previous book, I genuinely wanted to give this a try, if only to get one tiny nugget of wisdom.To paraphrase the late great Myrtle Snow, Elizabeth Gilbert "has a dreadful case of the me, me, me's." Now with any sort of autobiographical work it's expected that the author draws on their own experiences; but the part that bothers me is the unhealthy levels of God, I am just so amazeballs that this contains.
So wrong...Moving past that, this book seems to be written for artists.
Gilbert's aim here seems to be getting people to think differently about art, to force them to realize that the business sucks and the process isn't always easy, but we should all be happy because we're like children, finger painting our hearts out.Somehow the fact that this advice comes from someone whose net worth is $25 million doesn't make it any easier to swallow.The very fact I read this book is a testament to Gilbert's brilliance.
I know it's not easy, she seems to be saying, creativity won't pay the bills, so just quit thinking about it as a occupation and think of it more as finger painting!There's truth there, no doubt.
I know it will be a book I recommend over and over again to writer and artist friends, and anyone else who wants to live a more creative life.I've been struggling for a week over this review, and I'm still a bit overwhelmed.
She has a few good examples of this, including an amazing story involving another favorite writer of mine, Ann Patchett.Second, make time to be creative wherever and however you can.
Elizabeth said she kept her day job for years and did her creative writing in her free time, because she didn't want the pressure of making her writing pay the bills.
It helps tremendously that I happen to love Ann Patchett (State of Wonder is one of my all-time favorites), and damn if Gilbert isn’t talking about that exact story.
I don’t want to ruin it by telling you the anecdote here, but it’s enough to make a believer out of anyone.For some people, this book will spark their creativity.
-It’s okay if my work is frivolous as long as it makes me happy.Gilbert has some practical advice as well as her woo-woo stuff, like keep your day job.
It's funny to me that she discourages people from approaching creativity as a career move.
The fact is -- Elizabeth makes a living being creative.
And her ideas about ideas floating around the universe - looking for a host to land on --is just more 'jargon' ..( it's not that I don't understand what she speaks about- I do - even agree- but the whole delivery-package of this book just feels a little too commercial peppy style for me) At times it felt like I was reading a memoir about her process of writing "Eat, Pray, Love".
But you won’t be completely free until you reach your sixties and seventies, when you finally realize this liberating truth—nobody was ever thinking about you, anyhow.”I've repeated this last line one too many times in the past year, so it was worth coming across this read just to make the connection!
This & 'The Signature of All Things' are my fave Gilbert books. As the audiobook reader in addition to writer, she does an incredible job of sounding polished, relaxed, & truly encouraging. Read or listen to the end for the 2 best of all her great annecdotes.
With her new book, Gilbert sets herself up as a layman’s creativity guru much like Anne Lamott does with  Bird by Bird  or Stephen King with On Writing. This is based on Gilbert’s TED talks, and it reads very much like a self-help pep talk, with short chapters, lots of anecdotes, and buzz words to latch onto.Here’s a taste of some of Gilbert’s main ideas:• Forget about entitlement; “You do not need anybody’s permission to live a creative life.”• Authenticity is better than originality; after all
This is based on Gilbert’s TED talks, and it reads very much like a self-help pep talk, with short chapters, lots of anecdotes, and buzz words to latch onto.Here’s a taste of some of Gilbert’s main ideas:•	Forget about entitlement; “You do not need anybody’s permission to live a creative life.”•	Authenticity is better than originality; after all, there’s nothing truly original out there•	Art is all about paradoxes: it’s simultaneously meaningless and meaningful (“human artistic expression is blessedly, refreshingly nonessential”)•	Don’t be so serious; the “necessary suffering” of the artist is a myth•	Replace the Martyr with the Trickster – it’s all play anyway (“intracranial jewelry-making” – a metaphor she borrows from Tom Waits)•	Follow your curiosity and keep saying yes•	Finally, put your work out there with trust – words like success and failure don’t matterI found this book to be both enjoyable and helpful.
I underlined something on nearly every page, and my margin notes look like this:YES YES YES YES YES YES.I haven't loved everything Gilbert has ever written, but this is one of those books that came into my life at the perfect moment. I say this often (usually about every book I read and enjoy), but I want everyone I love to read this book.
Ok so with a little more than 16 hours to end the year, my mind has been officially blown away by Ms.Elizabeth Gilbert, wow!
I'll be now the one recommending it to a few friends myself.I've heard the expression "sometimes you find books and sometimes books find you", the latter was definitely the case for me with Big Magic: Creative Living Beyond Fear.Happy New Year to all my wonderful Goodreads friends!
I loved this book, and think it's one of the most important I've ever read.
I'm one of those who thought I missed the creative gene.
That people were just born creative...
Gilbert explains how curiosity leads to ideas, and when ideas are paid attention to, true magic can happen.
She says, " The idea will organize coincidences and portents to tumble across your path, to keep your interest keen...
everything you see and touch and do will remind you of the idea..." I love that!
I enjoyed this one so much, I think I highlighted more than half the book.
It's not my new bible or anything but it was definitely a kick to the booty to get going on all the story ideas I have.
This touches on important topics about staying humble as an author, writing for the right reasons, persevering, and forming ideas.
If you're someone who is hesitating writing a story idea and you need a nudge, this will definitely provide that boost of confidence.
Or if you wanna just getcha head in the game, I think it's good to make sure you're in touch with your creativity and humility.
Click here to watch a video featuring this book on my channel, From Beginning to Bookend.
I received a copy of this from the publisher in exchange for an honest review.I have enjoyed Elizabeth Gilbert's TED talks on creativity, more than her books, so I was happy to see her write a book on the topic she seems to think about a lot.
Within this book itself she admits that she is writing it in order to explore what she thinks about creativity.
I think the best section in this book deals with all the excuses we use to keep ourselves from doing the work we are being called to do, whether that is writing or not.
I spent forty-one years (okay, maybe thirty-five; for the first six I was blissfully unaware that I wanted to be a writer when I grew up) being afraid to pursue my dream of writing.
The notion that creativity is a magical, enchanting process may seem too woo hoo for some readers, perhaps many writers, but it resonated with this one.
But I work to be more open to and aware of the Divine Sparks, so when they occur, I can capture and hold them long enough to let them burn into my mind's eye, etched until I have time and energy to return to their outlines.
I think I just found my bible.
Words will probably never be able to describe the beauty that is Big Magic.
Whether you’re a writer, a painter, a quilter, a pottery-maker, a dancer, a singer, a circus artist, or anything else that could be considered even remotely creative, you need to pick up this book.
It’s as if Elizabeth Gilbert stared into my soul and wrote the book I needed.
On the one hand, I wanted to binge-read the book so I could have all the words at once, but in the end, I read it slowly, so I could cherish all the words.
"You want to write a book?
I think I'm in love with Elizabeth Gilbert.
I decided not to finish this book at about 50% mostly because the level of bullshit reached astronomic proportions; the final straw was Gilbert saying the writing and art are the most useless jobs in the world and hold no merit compared to jobs that actually benefit society.
She basically says that if you can’t afford to go to school to be educated don’t bother going, because you’re not missing out anything anyway, and the debt is not worth the fine arts degrees -- which is true BUT it's super classist/ableist/privileged assumption that age, higher education, dedication level, and money don’t play an instrumental role in a majority of [creative] people’s [even personal] roads to success.
I wasn't a fan of the constant name dropping and her idea that art isn't important, necessary or life saving.
I really wanted to enjoy this as I know it's changed so many people's perspectives and has been such an inspiring read, and maybe if I read it at a different time in my life or whilst in a different mind set, it might have done the same for me.
I wish I had been effected and inspired as positively as so many people have been with this book and although I wouldn't personally recommend it, I wouldn't turn anyone away for it either.
Although I didn't connect with everything in this book, overall I found it really inspiring and enjoyed it greatly!
Basically all the good advise you have ever heard on becoming a productive creative person all in one book.
If you are looking for motivation this is the book for you.
If you need a kick in the pants to start a project that you've been dreaming off, then pick up this book.
Great book to read on those dumpy days or if you have every felt in a slump and not living your life to the fullest.
It is going to be one of those books where I can just pick it up and read a chapter here for motivation.
However, sad to say, it's very disappointing, and I loved "Eat, Pray, Love." This book is pretty bad.
There is no real science or logic to the book.
It's just Gilbert's ramblings, page after page, ad nauseam, about creativity.
The book is really just her writing history, how she was discovered, and why her way is the right way.
I guess if you're an aspiring writer this might be a little helpful, but for me it was zero inspiration.
If you're looking for a self-help book for motivation, there are plenty out there much better than this.
I'm sorry, Ms. Gilbert, but this one wasn't for me.
Please get ready for a lot of name dropping and "I believe's..."“Because the truth is, I believe that creativity is a force of enchantment—not entirely human in its origins.” ― Elizabeth Gilbert, Big Magic#theguywiththebookreview presents: Big Magic by Elizabeth Gilbert.This is a self-help/motivation book and EG makes sure you know it is, on every single page.She makes sure she tells you exactly how she 'Humbly disagrees' with an opinion (usually one which has been in existence since a long time

I was in a reading slump, and no fictional novel helped.No matter how many times I grabbed a book that sounded interesting, even my to-be-reviewed pile didn't help.
In matter of fact, it just got things worse, because everytime I looked at it, I felt like not wanting to read.
Period.That's when I grabbed Big Magic.And it worked, in a way...I would probably read it in one day, if I didn't start it in the evening.But...
I never highlighted anything the author wrote.
I had to ask myself why am I reading a book where the authors advice is not connecting with me ?
One was the qualifications of the author, two was the lack of any real actions.The author, I did not know who she was when I purchased this book, I had not read her Eat Pray Love novel, but had seen it on store shelves.
She talked about her success of that piece, many times as her great masterpiece, which qualified her to give advice on creativity.
This came across more as a memoir of her greatness to date than a self-help book.
When I heard Elizabeth Gilbert had a new book out, I had no intention of reading it.
Back in the day, I read "Eat, Pray, Love" and had some big issues with it.
I haven't read any of Gilbert's work since.
It was like the Sirens composed a new song about this book at kept singing about it trying to lure me in.
Instead of representing a voice I wanted to spar with (as in "Eat, Pray, Love") the Gilbert of "Big Magic" was affable, self-effacing, funny, approachable, and inspiring.
This is basically like one, long TED talk (which makes sense since I think it was inspired by her TED talks). This gets super hippy dippy and cheesy, but there is a lot of guidance, too, about dealing with creativity and making things without the fear of it being perfect or being "successful" or redefining what success is and where you can learn and get inspired and how to deal with that. It is a really fast read, nothing in here is necessarily groundbreaking insight into creativity, but still a great reminder.
