https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/138551.The_Robot_Novels
The principal hero is Elijah Bailey, an everyday detective working in the city, yet who will also become the prophet of human exploration and settlement of the universe.The basic set up of the series is that the population of Earth lives in huge covered cities, almost completely sealed off from the outside world.
The second book in the series, The Naked Sun, posits an extreme settler society, in which everyone is so effete and tended to by technology that they prefer robots to people.
While I realize that the first two novels of this omnibus were written during a period of publishing history particularly rife with taboos, long since abandoned in more modern literature, the fact remains that Asimov could barely write more than two pages without using Elijah Baley's non-expletive.
While I usually find Asimov's writing to be both quixotic and enjoyable, these three novels felt stilted and unnatural.What's more, Baley is not an admirable character: he's crass, uncouth, boring, tediously agoraphobic, bigoted, and needlessly racist.
The last two points apply to most of the characters in the books, which was probably Asimov's intention; however, I could not help but wince whenever Baley would call a robot "boy".
When most people think of Asimov they think of Foundation and the books in that series.
I think of The Caves of Steel and the books in The Robot Novels series.
Daneel Olivaw, who -SPOILER ALERT- also shows up in the final book of the Foundation series, if my memory serves me correctly.
Few books touched my imagination like The Caves of Steel and the other Elijah Bailey novels.
When I look to the sky I often wonder what it would be like to live in that world of steel skies.
Isaac Asimov possessed a wonderful gift, the ability to write clearly and logically.
Despite Lije's dislike of robots, he and Daneel work well together, which is necessary to solve the bizarre, robot-centric murder mysteries that keep coming their way -- two Spacer scientists, and another humaniform robot.
There's a lot of philosophical meditation in here, including musings on the nature of life and intelligence, and whether a robot like Daneel is truly "alive."But Asimov is too skilled a writer to let these deeper themes bog down what is, essentially, a hard-boiled mystery/political thriller.
Jehoshaphat!
I loved wasting my life to read this.
The first two books...ok.
The third book though had all of the emotional pay off because the two main characters SHOULD HAVE ENDED UP TOGETHER!!!!
My hard copy is littered with with all of the post-it notes marking all of the obviously homo-romantic interactions between these two.
And like all of Asimov's characters' choices/motivations/mannerisms it came out of fucking nowhere.
I was on an emotional roller coaster for that last book.
I wanted them to get together so so so bad.
1 out of 10 this shit was terrible.
Would recommend.
This series was the first Asimov books I ever read, a long, long, long time ago, as a teenager. The first one I read (out of order) was The Robots of Dawn, and I loved it. Never before had I read such a wonderful blend of classic SF with classic mystery. The end just blew me away, and I thought it was the coolest thing I had ever read. So... this year, as an adult, I revisited these books to see if they would leave the same impression. I still absolutely loved them.
I like this edition a lot. There's a Commodore 64 text adventure of the third book too
so dryyyyyyyyyy
Why this rule was invented I don't know since it would place a heavier burden on the rest of the population.People travel on conveyer belts all over (or under as the case may be) the domed world, to work, to home...people live in tiny apartments and eat in community kitchens and wash in community bathrooms.
On Earth, people are prejudiced against robots and want them out of their lives.
The same is true for the next novel, the Naked Sun.In this story, Bailey has been sent to solve another murder on the planet Solaris.
This was were I gained my first love of detective/sci-fi -- the mix was so delicately well done by Asimov, I have never been able to go back and recapture the feelings I first had as a girl, curled up in bed, adventuring to the plant of Solaria in The Naked Sun. Maybe most of what I remember was my imagination replacing Asimov's lack of description, filling in all the blanks, dreaming up what R.
Daneel Olivaw, and Detective Elijah Baley looked like in my dreams.
Asimov sees the consequences of robots (too many robots) sheltering humans, and how human formality tends towards a 'purer' expression of desire so that in the end people lose touch with reality entirely.
In the end, it comes to robots not only to manage our base desires but also to manage the continuity of human kind at all.The mind reading seems like a strange phenomenon -- but it's a consequence of seeing human activity formally.
We can be read and our desires anticipated before we even know it.
Asimov would seek to render that space as the managed unmanageable that psychohistory would render corporeal.
But I have read The Robots of Dawn some time ago, so I'm not really cheating, right?
Isaac Asimov basically invented the robot genre (among others) and nobody does it better.
Asimov's writing may have become more fluid later in his career, but he was never better in his ability to evoke a dystopian human future.
If memory serves, he turned out in the neighborhood of 300 books of various types, including a number of other robot novels and stories.
It's nothing to do with this review, but I remember reading my first Asimov novel, Pebble in the Sky, when I was in eighth grade.
The Robot Novels, by Isaac Asimov (one of the top three scifi writers of all time) is set in the future where there are robots which are able to do humans tasks, and humans have settled across the galaxy. Prejudices exist against robots and people who are from other parts of the galaxy. This means that whenever there is a crime that involves them, it can be very complicated diplomatically. The series is based around Elijah Baley who is a detective of earth and is sent on various cases across th
Prejudices exist against robots and people who are from other parts of the galaxy.
The book I, Robot starts this series although it is not often considered officially part of it.
I loved reading this series and highly recommend it to all fans of science fiction.
It is important to know that this series contains lots of short stories which are recommended to be read although they may not be part of the official series.
If you like mystery novels or science fiction novels, then you should check out this series.
(See my favorite quote: "We don't know who discovered water but we know it wasn't the fish."**) And it may take exploring a robot's positronic brain to also get some pithy observations about human psychology.
And Asimov succeeds where so many scifi writers toying with robots fail—Daneel truly is never more than a [i:]machine[/i:] as much as he looks like a man and we anthropomorphize, but that doesn't stop our investment and only continues to fuel fascination.*Thanks, Neil Gaiman**Thanks, Marshall McLuhan
Then I hit a spot where I couldn't read, put it down and then for some reason every time I looked at it I didn't want to pick it up.
I read one novel and ripped right through it.
I picked this one up again and fell right into it.
It's an easy read but it has some interesting basic science concepts that are something you should expose young people to.
It's a classic and is one that people really should read as teenagers.
This book may be old, but it is still a good read even to this day.The main character is Elijah Bailey and he’s a homicide detective, and he is tasked with the murder of a roboticist named Dr. Sarton.
Elijah lives on earth, where cities are underground and they are very against robots.
There is a city that is full of spacers that Dr. Sarton lived in and they think that someone from his city killed Dr. Sarton.
I think people that like mysteries will like this book.
Elijah bailey is definitely an interesting character to say the least.
Chiefly why the hell Asimov built such a reputation after publishing stuff like this.
The portrayal of women in all three of these books, even the far more recent final volume, is deeply troubling to me.
And I'm sure we wouldn't have character's like TNG's Data were it not for these books laying the ground work.
But I feel a single Data focused episode of TNG (especially something like The Measure of a Man) does a better job of examining the philosophical issues than all 3 of these books combined.
I'm sure I've got plenty of bias here.
Great light mysteries with some insightful reflections on society.
Asimov was BRILLIANT at using robots to reflect so clearly on the nature of humanity.
Using a non-human...
character to point out both the depth and the shallowness of humans.
This gives Asimov much more freedom because the reader can't dismiss the perspective of the robot (culture, background, circumstance, parenting, etc.) Anyway, nobody did it better than Asimov and this trilogy is well written (if a bit of a light summer read) and worthwhile.
While not juvenile fiction, like a lot of earlier SF, this is a great way for a young reader to explore an interest in science and speculation.

This trilogy is an incredibly well thought out series concerning robots and the future of earth. It's impressive that Asimov's ideas about robots as presented in the first book existed all the way back in the early fifties. This series is in the same universe as I, Robot and the Foundation trilogy. When you combine all the stories, it's a series that spans dozens of books and thousands of years of history. It's in this trilogy that Hari Seldon's ideas of psychohistory are supposed to have originated. I'm continually lost in the genius and scope of Asimov's robot stories.
GOOD BOOKS "aSIMOV WAS A GENIUS" WELL AHEAD OF HIS TIME BUT THEN AGAIN I LIVE AND TEACH IN bREVARD cOUNTY FLORIDA AT BREVARD COUNTY COLLEDGE THE WOMEN HERE ARE BEAUTIFUL THEY ARE ABUNDANT AND HERE BIS A PERSONAL THANK Y6OU TO THE YOUNG WOMEN WHO GAVE ME A MARLBORO LIGHT AT "iCHABOD'S BEACHSIDE 2210 FRONT STREET MELBOURNE FLORIDA 32901.. THANK YOU MAAM HOPE YOU ENJOY YOUR BLUE LIGHTER WELCOME TO THE LIGHTER GAME YER hottt SMILE WORLD I LIVE WHERE THE nASA SPACE PROGRAM IS I WANNA VACATION ON THE MOON WE ALL DO gEORGE w, bUSH....
A very nice little series of books - I read these over the course of several months, and it is still easy to follow when taking breaks in between, though I would have loved to have just torn through them all at once. They are great books - written a few decades ago but a very interesting take on society, in my opinion. There is still discrimination, taboo affairs, misunderstanding across culture - plus, of course, robots. Quite amazing stuff, and a must read for anyone who likes robots.
I first read the robot trilogy back as a teenager. Asimov was, and remains, one of my favorite authors. Primarily because I thought that his work was very well thought out and grounded in some scientific reality. Of course he remains one of the "godfathers" of hard science fiction, particularly with respect to robots. I recent re-read the series, and still find it to be engaging, provocative, and thoroughly entertaining. But that is just me.
The Robot novels were precursor works to Asimov's Foundation series, begun in the mid 1950's. Establishes the mission of science fiction - to imagine how human society is changed by advances in science and technology. For an example, on an Earth so crowded that the massive populations can only be sustained in intensively crowded cities, with people living their entire lives in artificial environments underground, intense agoraphobia on being exposed to the open air becomes a social norm.
3 great classic sci-fi novels. I find it hard to belive the caves of steel was written in the 50's!, his writting is so timeless.The novels are all set in a future where human kind lives in vast enclosed cities, (caves of steel) and rarly venture outside.Robots do all the hard work, outside, as humans don't trust them.The naked sun is set on another world, where people (spacers) live in isolation in a house full of robots to cater to every need.
This is my first read of Asimov's work. Each of the three successive stories begins rather dry and seems to drag on. After getting about half way through the story, it picks up to a decent pace and begins spiraling and almost racing towards the end. It took me some work to keep going through the slow parts, but it was well worth it in the end.
I enjoyed the Foundation series so much, I wanted to go back a little and see what (retconned or not) came before. While I enjoyed these first 3 Robot books, I like the Foundation series much more. These are more human analysis, while Foundation to me feels more like politics and international (well, interstellar) politics.
One of the great things about Asimov is that sometimes the "science fiction" is merely a backdrop to another genre. In this case, a mystery/crime drama, with detectives Lije Baley and R.(for Robot) Daneel Olivaw as the unlikely partners in these three books. (A formula Hollywood would "borrow" countless times over.)
I read Caves of Steel and the Naked Sun many years ago. I wanted to read them again. My version of the book doesn't have Robots of Dawn so I have not read that yet. While the writing style is dated, I still loved them.
These are fascinating murder mysteries where a brilliant but limited robot is teamed with a cranky but insightful human detective from Earth to solve murders here or another planet. Asimov at his best, I think. The writing perfectly crafted. A gem.
