https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/13588356-daring-greatly
The definition of the scientific method is testing hypotheses, but she doesn't do that, so what she does do looks like circular reasoning where the finding is always "shame." It's OK to do qualitative research, but if you insist on the pretense of being completely open-minded blah-blah-blah, then you're "hypothesis generating" so at some point you still need to test a hypothesis to do science, and to know if you are helping people.
The point of reviews is to help potential readers figure out if they will like a book or not.
But I know it's keeping me from joy and love in a lot of areas in my life, so I'm working on it.This book doesn't fix everything, but boy is it good at calling you out and naming things.
Ms. Brown's book takes a hard look at what vulnerability is, why we're so afraid of it, what keeps us from allowing it (shame) and how it affects men and women differently.
However, we can't have these connections without allowing ourselves to be vulnerable.
I really can't recommend this book enough to anyone, any gender, and in any life situation.
"For me, and for many of us, our first waking thought of the day is "I didn't get enough sleep." The next one is "I don't have enough time." Whether true or not, that thought of not enough occurs to us automatically before we even think to question or examine it.
And by the time we go to bed at night, our minds are racing with a litany of what we didn't get, or didn't get done, that day.
We go to sleep burdened by those thoughts and wake up to that reverie of lack...
I usually don't bother writing reviews for books I can't finish.
And usually I give the book a fair chance -- say, at least 100 pages -- before giving up.
Some books I even read all the way to the end before wishing I could just get my time back.In this case, I read an interview with the author in O Magazine, and the interview was so interesting that I immediately requested this book from the library.
So I flipped to the center and chose a random chapter...nope, still not really getting into this.
Okay, let's try this in order and begin with Chapter 1...
I can't follow the author's thoughts and logic.
Read the interview in O Magazine.
The premise of this book rocked, and I was very interested in learning more about how to be more vulnerable and dare to do more things. However, the book was written completely in generalities. I need to hear the details of your research, the way you helped clients overcome their problems with vulnerability, facts, and stories. I need concrete advice and concrete science. Couldn't finish this fluffy-ass book.
Do you want to change the world?Do you want to have more powerful interpersonal relationships?Do you want to explore into your own soul to make sense of your life?Do you want to live whole-hearted?Do you want to rid yourself from shame?Do you want to understand men and women better?Do you want to give your heart a hug?I thought I would do something different this time and give you a list of questions for this book review.
I can't share it though for at least another month until I have it memorized.I had a powerful experience at work last night, using the principles learned in this book.
Daring Greatly was not what I expected it to be instead it gave me a very different outlook to vulnerability and a new understanding of what it means to engage with our vulnerability, understand how shame and shaming others affects us, how to combat shame, and being vulnerable for the sake of making real connections with people.
Not only has it helped me understand my vulnerability but understand other people’s vulnerability and understand scarcity and how wholeheartedness can affect us.
I highly recommend Daring Greatly to truly understand what vulnerability really is and understand the opportunities being vulnerable can create for us.
I really, really, really wanted to like this book.
The first chapter was spectacular--I found myself nodding along to just about everything: feeling vulnerable, a culture of scarcity, the new economy, etc.
And I hoped Brown would be the person to help guide me through it all.But no.The book promptly went downhill--and fast.
How do we address the cultural issues surrounding doubt, especially in terms of parenthood?
How can we change the cultural narrative?
How do we convince ourselves that we are, in fact, loveable, and therefore able to be vulnerable?Overall, a very unsatisfying book (but one that had such promise) that wasn't helped by an audiobook narrator who perhaps was *too* successful at being vulnerable.
I'm giving it three stars not because I have issues with the content (exactly) or with the writing, but because the subject matter is old hat to me.Ms. Brown is fairly well known as a speaker and writer on the subject of 'shame' and how it debilitates us and keeps us from being the persons we want to be.
I have spent the majority of my life since then trying to be only who I am in all social situations - 'what you see is what you get', 'keeping it real' and so on.So I found nothing really new or life-changing in Ms Brown's book.

Daring Greatly is dense with information on how to combat shame and become vulnerable, authentic, and courageous - not just in romantic relationships, but at work and with your children as well.
I have always struggled with vulnerability, but Brown makes a very convincing case as to why it is so important - we can't live fully and wholeheartedly without it.
I look forward to implementing some of her strategies, and I am sure that I will be revisiting often.
Really a must read for anyone who feels a bit closed off from the world and/or the best parts of themself.
It also would have been nice if Brown included more information about how she conducted her research throughout the book; even though she discusses methodology in the research appendix, knowing how she came to her conclusions when they're initially presented might aid in comprehension.Overall, a great read, and highly recommended to those who enjoyed her TED Talk and desire to gain even more insight into the concepts of vulnerability and shame.
Brene says that people need to deserve our trust- we don’t gain a trusting relationship by telling someone we just met all the intimate details of our life right off the bat- that’s not how we form true and real relationships.
When we are risking sharing something about ourselves, whether it’s an unpopular opinion, or a life experience, or trying difficult things, we feel naked and open to attack.
Okay so this author uses Harry Potter, fellow TED favorite Ken Robinson, Top Gun, Teddy Roosevelt, John Gottman, and even The Happiness Project by Gretchen Rubin...
Yet, she bases this book around solid research and combines together her own personal stories in the right moments to demonstrate her thesis.Daring greatly...
It is daring you to be uncomfortable, to define boundaries, to envision something outside of what society/culture makes "cool" "We are hard wired to connect with others, it's what gives purpose and meaning to our lives..." 2/3 of this book applies to every type of person...
I found myself re-reading many of the passages because they were simple, powerful, and truthful.Using examples from her research along with examples from her own life, Brené explores vulnerability, shame, and scarcity.
She looks at the differences and similarities between men and woman when it comes to vulnerability and shame, why we behave the way we do in both our personal and professional lives, the impact of living with shame and guilt, and how to live a more authentic and courageous life.
I look forward to reading more of Brené Brown’s work, and I recommend this book to anyone interested in psychology, becoming a better leader, parent, or person.
If we want to be able to move through the difficult disappointments, the hurt feelings, and the heartbreaks that are inevitable in a fully loves life, we cant equate defeat with being unworthy of love, belonging, and joy.
Easier said than done.Foreboding joy, perfectionism and numbing have emerged as the three most universal methods of protection.When we stop caring about what people think, we lose our capacity for connection.
It's going to bed at night thinking, Yes, I am imperfect and vulnerable and sometimes afraid, but that doesn't change the truth that I am also brave and worthy of love and belonging." (p.
From calling a friend who's experienced a terrible tragedy to starting your own business, from feeling terrified to experiencing liberation, vulnerability is life's great dare.
We need a hand to pull us up off the ground when we get kicked down in the arena (and if we live a courageous life, that will happen)." (p.53)"I want our home to be a place where we can be our bravest selves and our most fearful selves.
Truth and courage aren't always comfortable, but they're never weaknesses."• "What's worth doing even if I fail?"--I've heard other writers refer to this idea; I think Brene's the one who owned it first.• Saving this just because I really like the way Brene defines empathy (and want to remember it!) "Empathy is connecting with the emotion that someone is experiencing, not the event or circumstance."• LOVED Brene's anaylysis of the three forms of shielding that people employ in their "vulnerability arsenal"...1) foreboding joy (dread that clamps down on momentary joy, ie, My life is so great...but what if my husband dies in a car accident tomorrow?) 2) perfectionism (if only you do everything perfect, you'll never feel shame) and 3) numbing ('nuf said)• One of my favorite passages of the book: "When we stop caring about what people think, we lose our capacity for connection.
I didn’t want to read this because I thought, “Shame and vulnerability aren't really issues for me." HAHAHAHAHAHA.
After reading an interview with Brené Brown someone had posted on Facebook and then finally watching her TED talks on vulnerability and shame (another colleague had recommended TED.com to me a couple years ago, and I'm just now getting on that beautiful train), I knew I had to get my hands on this book.
But I realize now that I am made of the kind of stuff that yearns to "dare greatly." I expect a lot from myself and my school.
She doesn't provide all the easy answers, but she gives me the tools to not simply "get through the year" but to make it one of the best damn school years of my life.
آسيبي كه راز نگه داشتن يك اتفاق بد يا شرم آور به سلامت روان وارد مي كنه از خود اون اتفاق به مراتب شديدتر هست.
نوشتن اون راز و افكارمون در موردش به ازبين بردن اثرات منفيش بسيار بسيار كمك مي كنه.
We must walk into the arena, whatever it may be—a new relationship, an important meeting, our creative process, or a difficult family conversation—with courage and the willingness to engage.
Rather than sitting on the sidelines and hurling judgment and advice, we must dare to show up and let ourselves be seen.
This is daring greatly.
Brown uses the book as a medium to explain how we can take shame and vulnerability and exchange them for meaning and purpose in our lives.
There aren't really any step-by-step instructions so much as a thought process that needs to be changed in the way we think and approach circumstances.The book is going to really fly off the shelves for those who have a need for change in their lives or enjoy reading self-help books.
It is a dense book full of information, stories and examples.
But for someone who is really needing to hear this message it will be an easy and informative read.I received this book free of charge from BlogHer and was compensated for my review.
#mystrangereading Daring Greatly by Brené Brown ⭐⭐⭐⭐⭐ Y'all. I don't think that I will have the correct words to express how incredible this read is, but I'm going to try. Brown is a shame and vulnerability researcher and expert. This book is such a powerful read that speaks to men and women alike. It speaks to the quiet voices and 'gremlins' in our heads who whisper that we aren't enough, and the truth that she shares silences these lies if we are willing to embrace it and dare greatly. I liste
#mystrangereading Daring Greatly by Brené Brown ⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️ Y'all.
I don't think that I will have the correct words to express how incredible this read is, but I'm going to try.
Brown is a shame and vulnerability researcher and expert.
This book is such a powerful read that speaks to men and women alike.
It speaks to the quiet voices and 'gremlins' in our heads who whisper that we aren't enough, and the truth that she shares silences these lies if we are willing to embrace it and dare greatly.
It was incredible!
Read it!
#bookstagrammer #bookreview #bookreviews #bookrecommendations #reading #bookstagram #books
So I'm pretty pleased to have started my '2018 self development challenge' with an utterly captivating, thought-provoking, soul-searching, five-star read.This book is just so damn  relevant . We all experience shame and vulnerability.That seems like such an obvious concept but it took reading this book for me to properly understand that. I'm going to get pretty real here: I struggle a lot with feeling like I'm not worthy, or like I'm not good enough because I can't keep up with peers in certain
. We all experience shame and vulnerability.That seems like such an obvious concept but it took reading this book for me to properly understand that.
The notion that these people might experience the same feelings of unworthiness and shame in areas of their own lives just blows my mind.
I love that, and I think it ties in well with other self-development/spiritual books I've read that discuss the power of the subconscious mind.
Rather, it will teach you, as the title suggests, how the courage to be vulnerable will allow you to live a more fulfilling, wholehearted lifestyle.Honestly, I can't think of a single person who wouldn't benefit from reading this book.
The title comes from an amazing quote by Theodore Roosevelt encouraging us all to give things our best shot("...the credit belongs to the man who is actually in the arena..who strives valiantly; who errs, who comes short again and again...who at the best knows in the end the triumph of high achievement, and who at the worst, if he fails, at least fails while daring greatly...") The basic thesis is that in order to live our best lives, we need to be vulnerable: to go all out in living and loving, holding nothing back.
Our culture greatly values people who project strength, even if it's a false sense of strength.In order to embrace vulnerability, we need to develop "shame resilience" strategies and supports.
The fact that the author is a shame and vulnerability researcher weren't selling points because it sounded like it would be a self help book that would provoke so many uncomfortable feelings inside.
In a nutshell: guilt is "I shouldn't have done that," shame is "I am no good because of what I did," and humiliation is "I didn't deserve that consequence for what I did."Besides clarifying the definitions of these words, this book brought up a great point about how men feel shame according to the research findings.
I'm torn about the value of this book.
I have been a Brene Brown fan for quite some time as an online course I teach for another university requires students to watch her TED talk on vulnerability.
At a military academy, vulnerability is not a value that we teach.
Also, as a faculty developer, the book highlighted how teachers must be vulnerable in the classroom in order to affect their students.
Stephen Brookfield's work on impostership affirms this notion by explaining how we pretend to be all-knowing in front of students when in fact sharing our imperfections often affects learning the most.
Daring Greatly presents a strong case for making one's self more vulnerable, which the author would define as showing up and letting one's self be seen--being the man in the arena from the Teddy Roosevelt speech from which the book takes its name.
Just like those talks, this book gave me a lot of terrific things to think about: the relationship between vulnerability and trust, the importance of boundaries and how they can exist with vulnerability and trust, how perfectionism and vulnerability are at cross purposes, and how being vulnerable is a path to connection.
The book is a call to be vulnerable--as uncomfortable as that may be--but also an exploration of what is gained by daring greatly, and how to try.
If you're already familiar with Brené Brown's popular TED talk, Daring Greatly follows much in the same vein.I wasn't familiar with her work, and expected this book to contain practical insights into creativity, innovation, and risk-taking.
But instead it remained wholly in the territory of Brown's academic research on shame and vulnerability.Brown's work is interesting, but not at all what I'd intended to read.
I never buy into that argument, and found it pervasive throughout Brown's book.
There wouldn't be much left if all the sappy autobiographical stuff was removed. The audiobook reader is irritating too. Imagine a breathy voice saying something like "Once again I amazed myself at how amazing I am in spite of all my humility and vulnerability." and it would pretty much sum up my impression of this book.
