https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/310226.Destination_Unknown
This was not a typical Agatha Christie book at all since it was more of a spy thriller than a detective story. While I think I definitely prefer her "classic crime solving", it was still interesting to see AC dipping her toes in a different genre. (I listened to this on audiobook btw.)
I kept thinking, something is wrong! Then, I realized, something is missing. A murder. Still, pretty enjoyed this book, although it's not really Christie's 'typical' book. But, still, contains many interesting characters! I know it's good, when I close the book, and say, 'Man! I feel I just came back from a journey.'So yeah, not a master piece of Agatha, but still, easy, interesting read.
One of the best Christie novels. A fast paced spy thriller, it has all elements of international espionage and intrigue. And in true Christie fashion there is a twisted end. The story line is so gripping that you would want to finish it in one go. Superb reading
Destination Unknown kind of anticipates Passenger to Frankfurt, in my opinion, and that's enough to explain why I couldn't enjoy nor stand it.
I read 81 of Agatha Christie's 82 books (I've always refused to read Final Curtain) between the ages of 14-16.
I loved her books heart and soul - but my reading taste matured and at some point I became an insufferable snob when it comes to genre fiction.
Destination Unknown was always my favorite Christie book.
I loved Mrs. Marple and Poirot to be sure, but I always reveled most in her stand alone books.
I grew up in the 80s and love cold-war books and movies.
I've always had a soft spot for spy thrillers, whether they be serious like La Carre, or absurd like Fleming.
A delightful meaningless romp.The queen of mystery took a break from Poirot and Marple to produce a post-war action/adventure thriller story about the mysterious disappearance of scientists all over the world and the unlikely spy who cracks the case. Always moving (to a destination unknown), along the way there is murder, adventure, mistaken identity, and even love, all with that Agatha Christie tongue-in-cheek humor and charm in a decidedly more Hitchcockian vein.Destination Unknown is Tommy &a
A delightful meaningless romp.The queen of mystery took a break from Poirot and Marple to produce a post-war action/adventure thriller story about the mysterious disappearance of scientists all over the world and the unlikely spy who cracks the case.
Always moving (to a destination unknown), along the way there is murder, adventure, mistaken identity, and even love, all with that Agatha Christie tongue-in-cheek humor and charm in a decidedly more Hitchcockian vein.Destination Unknown is Tommy & Tuppence meet “The Lady on the Train.” Good clean fun.
Recommended for a palate cleaning reading break or a rainy afternoon.
I'm a little bit disappointed, it was more of a spy thing than a mystery novel and am not that fan of spying books, kept waiting for the intrigue but it didnt show up, hoped for better than this, mais bon..
I struggled all of the way through this Agatha Christie stand alone mystery.
I felt it very dry and uninteresting most of the way through.
There were a few characters I really wanted to like, but because of the way the story was written, I could not get close enough to them.
Right up to the last chapter in the book, it was hard to see where this plot was going to take me and how it was all going to turn out.
I stuck with it, and admit that the outcome made me smile.
I think the conclusion was "all's well that ends well".
I admit that I kept flipping the pages expecting someone to die on the next page, but to my surprise, no murder happened at all (excluding anything happened before Hilary Craven took the role of Olive Betterton).
I didn't expect Agatha Christie could write something entirely different from her usual murder cases like this and wrote it very well too.
During her journey to the unknown destinations, Hilary found out that many genious scientists from around the world had gone missing like what happened to her "husband" and she was just too ready to take on any risks to find out the truth.
She has nothing to live for … until British secret agent Jessop offers her a chance to help her country.This is a cold-war spy thriller that is obviously dated.
The characters and plot include the aforementioned brilliant scientists, double agents, an evil genius mastermind, an exotic locale, a secret laboratory, a beautiful heroine, and a strong handsome hero.
But the plot is so dated and the spy / evil genius theme so over-the-top by today’s standards as to be laughable.
She even has a great brassy American accent for one tourist Hilary encounters.
But her evil genius character is just laughable.
So instead I decided I would read all the Sweet Valley High books and Agatha Christie books in the school library.
Of all the Agatha Christie books I read Destination Unknown was my favourtie.
It had a young suicidal heroine who instead of taking sleeping pills was offered "a more interesting death" by the secret service who were out looking for missing scientists.
I liked the strong, yet suicidal, heroine.
I probably won't rush out and read anymore Agatha Christie but I'm glad this one was as much fun as I remembered.
The Iron Curtain!This book would fit much better under the class of thriller than mystery.
Don't let that dissuade you though, because that's not really what the book is about anyway.Like I said, although there's the bare premise of a mystery (what on earth is happening to all of these smart people?) it's just not that kind of book.
I'm not the biggest fan of the ending, it's a little anti-climactic.If you enjoy Christie and want to experience something a little different from her norm, I suggest picking up this book or one of the other suspense thrillers she wrote.
Now this is the type of Mystery book that makes me love to read! I love reading Agatha Christie the best...in her books there are no cursing, violence, etc. They make you have to use your mind. This book is not a "serial" from what I can gather...there is no Tommy & Tuppence, Miss Marple or M. Hercules Peirot to solve the crime. I actually did not get all the story till the end. There were more than one tale woven into this story.
الطائرة الضائعة / الطائرة المفقودة / المصير المجهول كلها أسماء للنوفيلا .. ورقي هي ناقصها أخر 3 فصول موجودة كاملة pdf تعتبر أقل روايات أجاثا ، الفكرة موجودة لكن القصة و عناصرها أقل جودة من اللي أتعودت عليا من أجاثا . لكنها تظل أجاثا كريستي ، تسرد الأحداث بطريقة تجعلك تتكور لتذهب إلي المشهد نفسه و تراقب عن قرب كل ما يحدث .
Due to several coincidences, (view spoiler)[ she (Hilary) takes the part of the missing scientist's wife, and travels to meet him in a secret lab under a mountain in Africa.
Now I know this sounds like a James Bond plot, and indeed this is one of Christie's later works, published in 1954, the same year as Fleming's Live and Let Die. It is nothing like the typical Golden Age country house murders for which we know and love her.
In particular she talks, through her characters, about whether pure scientific research is valid, even if it leads to death and destruction.Another issue she deals with in this book is age versus youth.
Not one of her normal murder mysteries, but an enjoyable, well written and thoroughly engrossing story. In this work, the disappearance of the worlds foremost scientists, doctors, etc. causes alarm across the globe. A crime hasn't actually been committed or has it? A woman who contemplates suicide is interrupted in her attempt and enlisted to aid in solving the mystery by going undercover. As the pages turn the plot thickens and our heroine goes on one hazardous adventure. Plenty of twists, turns and surprises and an unexpected ending.
لم اجد النهاية لا اعلم اذا كانت ضائعة ام مفتوحة :/ بالاضافة الى اننى لم اجد اللغز ولم اجد الحل ايضا :/ مجرد قصة تدور احداثها مع اشخاص فى اماكن فقط لاغير لا يوجد اثارة او متعة بتاتا :( لكننى على امل ان اقرأ روايات اخرى لاجاثا كريستى اكثر متعة واثارة :)))
AudiobookThis book seemed a bit of a departure from Agatha's previous books which I liked. Great ending.
With just 100 pages left I thought this was a solid 3 star. How could I doubt Agatha Christie? My head just exploded with how surprisingly complex this was!
„Nežinoma linkme“, kaip ir knygos anotacija perspėja, yra trileris.
Atvirai, tai mane šiek tiek trikdė, mat esu pamilusi ir be galo vertinu klasikinį Agathos rašymo būdą.Aprašyti šios knygos turinį, neišduodant įdomiausių dalykų – sunki užduotis.
Galbūt dėl to knygos anotacija ir yra tokia platoniška ir beveik nieko nepasakanti.
Intriga kaip ir buvo, tačiau trūko aiškumo ir taip Christie būdingos dramos joje.
Man tai buvo visiškai nuspėjama pabaiga ir toks "Stepfordo moterų" ir tikros Agathos knygos mišinys...
Žinoma, nesigailiu, kad perskaičiau „Nežinoma linkme“ (juk mano tikslas pers kaityti visas iki vienos Agathos Christie knygas), bet tai tikrai nėra pats geriausias jos darbas.
Σίγουρα ένα ξεχωριστό βιβλίο της Αγκάθα Κρίστι. Περισσότερο βιβλίο μυστηρίου παρά αστυνομικό. Εδώ δεν υπάρχει φόνος, παρά μόνο μια γυναίκα, που παριστάνοντας κάποια άλλη, προσπαθεί να διεισδύσει σε ένα απόρρητο πρόγραμμα. Η εναλλαγή αυτή του βιβλίου σε κατασκοπεία, του έδωσε μια νέα πνοή, κάνοντάς το αρκετά ευκολοδιάβαστο.
*diambil 'paksa'dari rak kolpri seseorang*Efek samping klo ngga ada Poirot (atau kadang Miss Marple) itu adalah deg-degan yang lebih jedar-jeder karena biasanya tokoh utamanya tidak berpengalaman berhadapan dengan kejahatan (ya, iyalah, sapa juga yg mau selalu berhadapan dengan penjahat *hail Pak Polisi!*).Tapi ternyata dari awal sampai akhir berasa agak datar (syukurnya bukan bumi datar), yang baru aku sadari kemudian (mungkin) karena ngga ada pembunuhan.
Boleh juga nih klo Oma Christie alih profesi jadi mak comblang *mikir*.Dan gara-gara kedataran itu aku malah jadi berdosa karena berprasangka buruk pada Jessop.
هل حقا نهايتها مفتوحة بهذه السذاجة أم ان لها جزءا آخر أم هو عيب في الترجمة أم انها محاول فاشلة من اجاثا لصنع نهاية مفتوحة مشوقة؟؟؟؟؟؟؟
Gözlənilməz şəkildə hamının ağıllı olduğunu və hadisələrin inanılmaz dərəcədə qəhrəmanlar üçün uğurla cərəyan etdiyini nəzərə almasaq, əla idi. Müəllif üçün tipik qatil, oğru süjeti deyildi. Sonluq gözlənilməz.
ناقصة لم تكتمل ! وكذلك أقل ما قرأت لأجاثا
They're always a surprise.I can't give this book the 4 stars I'd like to because it didn't feel like a mystery, really.
There wasn't a central murder, with a detective (famous or unknown) interviewing suspects.
The story basically revolves around a woman named Hilary Craven who impersonates the recently-dead Olive Betterton in search of Olive's husband.
None of it feels quite like the classic Christie.
There was a murder revealed at the end, but it didn't really feel like it had been part of the story.It wasn't bad, certainly, but it didn't really live up to the Christie Mystery standards I had been hoping for.
Destination Unknown never comes up as a straight laced detective fiction.
Rather it falls into a unknown Christie genre of spy/political fiction.
The book is all about trying to find out who or what is making them disappear.A common theme of Christie present in this book is a simple woman who is also the main protagonist helped on by a male government official.
Both being political thrillers with woman protagonist in the thick of things.
For this book it was Morocco, for "They.." it was Iraq.Definitely not a masterpiece, but it still comes out as a page turner.
I enjoyed this novel as much as, if not more than Agatha Christie's other books (and I have read them all). I am a fan of Poirot, but the murder mysteries are not quite as exciting as conspiracies, world espionage and intrigue, which is what this book offers (however far fetched, which I will admit, it is.. still this is fiction and global financial conspiracies make for good stories). As a simple and suspenseful mystery, if not read as propaganda (there is a lot of "Red Fear" written into this book), it is quite relaxing/enjoyable.
A very different mystery. This novel does not have Poirot or Miss Marple solving any crime. It is more of a thriller with Hilary Craven taking the place of a woman who has died in a plane crash. Her task is to find out what has happened to the dead woman's husband.The plot, like all of Agatha Christie's books, moves quickly. The final truth is only exposed right at the end of the book. I shall not spoil it here.If you like Agatha Christie's main characters (Poirot and Miss Marple), do give this book a try.
I think my favorite part about this story is the idea of a more "sporting" chance at suicide - giving a woman with nothing left to live for an impossible mission, with the candid admission that if she SHOULD survive it, quite likely she should have also found something to live for. The rest of the story, an unreal, dream-like destination with a harsher reality underneath it, and the final twist at the end where, as usual, no one and nothing is as imagined, is typical Christie-fare. A twisty, tricky, clever tale.
