https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1513505.Towers_in_the_Mist
I might have been introduced to Elizabeth Goudge by falling in love with the Little White Horse but Towers in the Mist is my absolute favourite of her books. Oxford's early days as England's great university are brought vividly to life in a golden, magic book teeming with wonderful characters and Goudge's trademark enchanted touch. On the eve of the visit of Elizabeth 1, one family's life is touched in so many different ways; there is romance, transformation and mischief. I must have read it a gazillion times, I will continue to do so!
One of Goudge's wordier books, not my top favorite, but with a fun sketch of Oxford history and a lovely tour of the town as part of the story. (Having just been there, I felt it quite good.) I liked her capture of the spirit of the Elizabethan age in the way she brought a young Sidney and Raleigh to life and evoked some of the golden possibility of the time. I think book's like this add flavor to my perception of history.
[I was really glad that I had recently seen 'Wolf Hall' on PBS so that I was able to follow some of the historical details she brings up.] She follows (mainly) a rector's family who are part of Christ College, & yet are typical Oxford townspeople of the time.
I love that she included youthful portraits of (Sir) Walter Raleigh, Philip Sidney, & other Oxford students @ the time, plus the Duke of Essex, all of whom would go on to play major parts in QE1's reign.
She also begins her chapters with examples of actual poetry written @ that time by Raleigh, Sidney, & others within her story.
He was caught in a fairy tale and the glory of it swept him along as though his feet were winged.p. 272 "The love of God is with man...That, Nicholas knew suddenly, is the news of the far country, the mystery like a nugget of gold that men travel so far to seek, the fact that is stated but not explained by all the pictures that have been painted and by all the music and the poetry that has been written since the dawn of the world.
The nuggets of wisdom that appear in her books appeared primarily in the last third of the book.
Being a modern day reader, I might have given up before her jewels appeared, but because she is an absolute favorite author, I kept on reading.
For being "an old maid" spinster in rural England, coming of age at the end of WWI, with a father who was an Anglican minister, her insight into humanity is incredible.
Like the Bronte sisters and Jane Austen, she reflected on humanity in an age we cannot conceive of, with our stimuli.
I will always seek her nuggets of wisdom, as a respite from the busy life I live.
Not my favorite of her books. It felt like the main character was actually the city of Oxford. Lots of detail about life in the Elizabethan era-- but the entire book felt like more of a snapshot than a story. Also needed to read extra info about pretty much everyone in the book as they were historical figures.
This paean to Elizabethan Oxford is an early work of Goudge's -- all her usual good stuff is there in embryo form, but it never really comes together into a satisfying narrative. Still, enjoyable to fans of Elizabethiana (if that's a word).
I love Elizabeth Goudge. I have read at least 5 other books by her and this one was a bit harder for me to "get into", but I am so glad I did. The last 3 chapters got so good and so rich that it made it worth the effort to read it. I blogged a short synopsis of what I got out of it and why I liked it here: http://settingsofgold.blogspot.com/20...
Delightful! A good book for a rainy afternoon with cup of tea. I loved the character development, the lyrical, poetic writing style, and the frequent rabbit trails that are complete stories in themselves, though still linked to the main story and adding depth and richness.
Loved this book!
The story itself is interesting, especially the early history of Oxford (both town and university), and the description of a visit from Queen Elizabeth.
The plot is pretty mild - Faithful leaves the gypsies with whom he has been staying and walks to Oxford, hoping to become a scholar; he is fortunate to be taken up by Canon Leigh and his family.
There was a bit too much description of the countryside, gardens, etc., for my taste; but this is typical of Goudge and it does add to the overall ambience of the story.
(The book features not only a young Walter Raleigh but a clever, thoughtful Philip Sidney, and Elizabeth I, amongst many other characters whose lives are a matter of record.) Goudge, of course, propagates a mid-twentieth-century view of Tudor England, one that holds up Good Queen Bess and the return of religious moderatism and Raleigh's patriotic imperial yearnings as models of behaviour.
But her characters are vivacious and irresistible, and the whole book comprises a love letter to Oxford that is more charming than I can say.
She also handles religion rather well, I think; the practice and accoutrements of Christianity—prayers, relics and so on—are omnipresent in her characters' lives in a way that feels entirely faithful to the period, probably because they were very present in her own life, too.
A charming story that takes place within a year in Elizabethan Oxford. It follows the lives of the Leigh family and some other famous historical figures. Great detail and the slow pace bogged me down at times. I do love other books by this author. I see this is one of her first works where she has not defined herself as the author she later becomes. This fulfills the popsugar reading challenge for a book with the same first name as mine.
Sadly I did not care much for this book. Some parts were interesting to me but mostly I was bored with it. I’m surprised too because it’s grouped with 2 other Elizabeth Goudge books and called the Cathedral Trilogy, and I love those other 2 books so much , I thought I’d like this one too. And although they’re called the Cathedral Trilogy, they’re actually 3 separate stories.
Lovely story and a wonderful opportunity to get some great history of Oxford down through the ages, along with Philip Sidney, Walter Raleigh and even Queen Elizabeth, all before they had even begun to leave their mark
Such a beautiful book. England, Oxford, history, poetry. Definitely a book I hope to read again with pen in hand to copy out some of my favorite passages.
Not to my taste. Too sugary, idealistic, and long-winded.
Towers in the Mist is a delightful novel that covers a year in the life of the Leigh family, from the arrival on May Day 1565 of Faithful Crocker, a 14 year old orphaned vagabond, carrying his meagre possessions, a copy of Virgil and of Foxe’s Book of Martyrs, and a burning desire to become a scholar, to the visit of Queen Elizabeth I to Oxford in August 1566.
This story is the result of such questions.” She explains: “The Leighs are an imaginary family, whom I have set down in the house at that time ouccupied by Canon Westphaling.” I first read Towers The Mist as a teenager and from then on the characters stayed with me.
Oxford, with its towers in the mist, assumes a personality that dominates the novel from a gypsy camp, to the Leigh’s home to a hidden Roman Catholic chapel with an exquisite, but forbidden statue of the Virgin Mary and her son.
This is a great ride through Elizabethan Oxford and really interesting as an early Goudge novel--exuberant and a bit experimental.
Goudge goes on to use these figures again and again in her mature work, when her energy and optimism have come through the war.
The contrasts between the characters here with Herb of Grace and Rosemary Tree's casts is really interesting.Highly recommended to Goudge fans, Oxfordians, and lovers of baroque stylistics.
First published in 1938, Towers in the Mist, is unapologetically flowery in places.
I would describe this book as enveloping.
The story line meanders along pleasantly enough but the real aim of the book seems to be to immerse you in time and place with the characters.
Loosely based on a year in an Oxford college, Goudge used all her knowledge of the cathedral town and her understanding and love of Elizabethan poetry to give a real sense of historical time.
Unsure of what to expect, as my library copy had been rebound with a plain cover I embarked into the unknown.The story is set in Christ Church, Oxford, in the 16th century and follows the Leigh family for a year, through love and grief, joy and loss, culminating with Queen Elizabeth’s visit to that illustrious city.Although a charming read, and involving many well known characters from history, include Sir Walter Raleigh, I was a little disappointed with the simplicity of the tale.
As I intend to go back and read the first book, “A City of Bells”, perhaps it is a series that will grow on me.
"Towers in the Mist" didn't really grab me.
There were a lot of characters, and the author didn't seem particularly interested in any of them.
There were long passages of historical musings put in character's voices in ways that stretched my credibility ("He looked into the sky, and it was as if he saw [insert several centuries' worth of history here]").
There were lots of references to clichéd gypsies doing things like stealing children.
I only kept reading because one character did involve me, but she drifted off the page towards the end.
An elegant, historically-grounded novel centered on a family living on the grounds of Oxford, in England during the Elizabethan time period. Elizabeth Goudge is an accomplished, prolific writer whose command of the English language is unrivaled. The plot moves along naturally, as it gently pulls you in. Her descriptions of nature, the weather, the grounds of Oxford are not only breathtaking, but integral to the forward movement of the story. As always, Goudge lightly weaves in concepts of faith and insights into human nature. It is a rich, beautiful novel and left me in awe of this remarkable author.
I don't remember reading a book with such beautiful imagery for a long time ... It brought back feelings that I had reading books as a child, the anticipation to emerse oneself in the same book over and over again... not like now, when I can't help but wanting to finish reading a book quickly so I can finish as many books as possible.
Gorgeous as always, but took me a while to get into. I'm not a big poetry or historical fiction person, so that's why I'm just giving this 3 stars. But I'm looking forward to reading more of her work!
Oxford, England during Elizabeth I
This book was beautiful. It takes the history of Oxford and weaves it into the story of a family living in Christ Church and those that surround them. One of my favorite reads of the year.
I was looking for something gentle to read and found this old favorite on the self. 16th century Oxford. Just lovely
LOVE
