https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/861483.Millard_Fillmore
yeah that was about it.In truth, Fillmore was a good man who was President during a pivotal time in charge of a political party that was having an existential crisis.Favorite parts of the book:- The history of the Anti-Masonic and American (Know Nothing) Parties.
I'd always read about how the Slavery issue tore the Whig party apart but before this book, I'd never really understood why.
They know it's only a matter of time before they lose.Ultimately, Fillmore was a boring guy and that's just the way he liked it.
From his beginnings in the Anti-Masonic party to his leadership of the Whig party, the most interesting story told in this biography is of the New York state politics, first against Martin Van Buren's democratic regency and then with the unscrupulous and self-interested Thurlow Weed, who began as a Fillmore friend but would ultimately be an enemy of his administration, painted as a man searching for political power through the creation of a sectional party, finally accomplished by Weed's invasion of the Republican Party in the 1856 election.Fillmore is not credited with much success.
In his Preface, Rayback writes that his original intention was not to do a biography of Fillmore, but rather to explain the creation, short life, and fairly quick demise of the Whig Party in the mid-1800s.
And a good portion of the book reads exactly as that: Fillmore is a character more or less in the background, periodically coming into spotlight, but usually only as it relates to Whig politics.
Fortunately, once into Fillmore's time as Vice-President, the narrative moves a bit quicker, although still heavily laden with New York Whig politics.
We know almost nothing of Fillmore's personal feelings upon leaving the presidency.
Robert Rayback makes the most of 1/2-term President Millard Fillmore, providing also a cradle-to-grave biography of the Whig Party, from its Anti-Masonic origins to its seeding of the modern Republican Party. Much time is spent on Fillmore's legacy, the Compromise of 1850, which kept slavery out of new territories but strengthened fugitive slave laws, for the sake of preserving the Union. The first future president born after George Washington's presidency, and the first (earliest) ex-president to survive Abraham Lincoln, Millard Fillmore lived a very full life and dedicated most of it to service of the nation.
And rather than seeming obtusely fawning, the author’s exoneration of Fillmore often proves provocative and thought-provoking.Like many biographies of the early and more secluded presidents, Rayback’s book focuses primarily on Fillmore’s politics and public service rather than his personal life.
Based on what is described of Fillmore’s private and family life, however, the more interesting focus may well be on his careers in law and politics.Overall, “Millard Fillmore: Biography of a President” is a laudable and impressive analysis of an otherwise remote and little-known president.
This book goes to show that excellent research can make any topic worth reading.
Fillmore of course is not a well-known president; of his own short presidency there is not much to write.
And in his post-presidency he stayed involved in public service, really making Buffalo into a great city.If Fillmore himself does not interest you, this book is also a great history of the Whig party.
Rayback ends up taking us through the rise and fall of that party, and the voters' struggle to find an identity.
As a futile attempt to make Millard Fillmore seem like an underrated President, and, even more preposterously, an interesting person, this book is rather dull.Most of the Presidents leading up to the Civil War were uninteresting and spineless.
Whether they supported slavery or not, (and Fillmore from Buffalo supposedly didn't), they were all terrified of being the President who saw the nation split into two.
He signed the Compromise of 1850, which included the Fugitive Slave Act, an extremely dangerous law that allowed southern slaveholders to go North and reclaim slaves who had escaped, or just say a person used to be their slave and kidnap them.
Fillmore reportedly "hesitated" about signing this part of the Compromise.
I don’t buy it as Fillmore would run for president again a few years later, and his shrewdness in the Governor/V.P hustle with Collier earlier shows he valued the appearance of not wanting to appear he was seeking office but doing it for “the will of the people.”Fillmore ended up defeated as nominee by Winfield Scott for reelection, which was considered by Rayback to be death the of Whig party; Scott lost 27 states to 4 but Pierce only got 56% of vote.
One in which the traditional view of Fillmore as a "weak and pompous president" is challenged and a more fully explored Whig party is presented.
Rayback asserts that Fillmore's was truly a statesman and the popular view held is manipulated by his enemies, Thurlow Weed and William Seward.
However, his arguments fall flat, the work comes across as a biased account of the presidency, and Fillmore, in my opinion, still comes across as a very weak leader.What I think Raback does do successfully, however, is relate the circumstances that caused the disintegration of the Whig Party and ushered in the Republican Party.
Using Fillmore's letters and other documents, the author presents Fillmore as a principled and decent person who as president worked to bring about sectional peace during a tumultuous time.
In doing this, however, Rayback distorts his subject's positions and leaves out key details, exaggerating Fillmore's opposition to slavery and downplaying his support for nativism rather than attempting to explain his true positions on these controversial subjects.
Because of this, his book is best read in conjunction with a more critical work, such as Paul Finkelman's short study of Fillmore's presidency for "The American Presidents" series, in order to provide a balanced and complete assessment of Fillmore and his impact on American history.
This was another interesting pres. biography. It provided nice coverage of most of the Whig Party history. I can't quite agree with the author's pronouncement that Fillmore was a president who accomplished nothing. I would say his really big accomplishment was the signing of the Compromise of 1850. Perhaps it was only forestalling the inevitable Civil War but I believe that it was Fillmore's efforts to try and provide balance between Northern and Southern factions that kept the country out of war for at least 4 years.It is a good bio...glad I read it.Now on the Franklin Pearce!
To be honest, I would have liked to have read a tad more about his life after the presidency, but perhaps sources for the author were rare and/or unavailable.I’m learning that any biography of any United States president focuses heavily on slavery, discrimination, Jim Crow, or Civil Rights.
Again, history isn’t pretty in many places, so one probably shouldn’t be too judgmental of such sentiments, but in hindsight, such feelings are a bit distressing.I also enjoyed this book because it gives a good overview of why and how the Whig political party came into existence.
Fillmore is best remembered for signing into law the Compromise of 1850, which included the Fugitive Slave Act, and for running for president in 1856 as a “Know-Nothing,” a nativist and anti-Catholic political party.In Rayback’s telling, the Compromise of 1850 was not just Fillmore’s work.
Rayback emphasizes that this was a constitutionally sound position—slavery had, after all, been accepted by the Constitution—and Fillmore based his own actions to avoid a civil war on the Constitution.But. This book was published in 1959, when it was apparently possible for an academic to write a book largely about pro- and anti-slavery forces without considering the actual people who were slaves.
The new law was driven by an attempt to avoid a civil war and to hold the country together as long as possible).
Most agreed this was a win for anti-slavery, but it was clear under the new law that likely most of these sates would end-up as non-slave states.
Likely without the commitment on the Fugitive Slave Act the legislation would have failed and the civil war would have started 8 or so years before it did.
This comment was made at a low point of the civil war, when 100,000s had died and Union victory seemed remote and unlikely.
Who would have thought I’d just finished a biography on our 13th President of the United States, Millard Fillmore, at this point in my life?
Rayback’s, Millard Fillmore: Biography of a President is the second presidential biography I’ve read after reading Jack Goldsmith’s “Will Donald Trump Destroy the Presidency?” in the October issue of The Atlantic:https://www.theatlantic.com/magazine/...Goldsmtih says that Fillmore’s worst attribute as compared to Trump was his “bigotry”.
And certainly there was the blight and stain of prejudice during Fillmore’s political career and presidency.
He is generally considered one of the 10 worst presidents (Truman characterized him as a thumb-twaddler who would do nothing to offend anyone.) In his defense, he was suddenly thrust into the presidency by the unexpected death of Zachary Taylor and a bit of an outsider to the political workings of the cabinet he inherited just at a time when the seams of the country were about to be ripped apart by the Compromise of 1850.
Biographies on Millard Fillmore are few and far between, so I selected Robert J. Rayback’s. While this is a good book for getting additional information on both the period and politics, it is so woefully skewed to make Fillmore into something he wasn’t a 'good' President. He started politics in the Anti-Masonic (Anti Freemason) Party and ended with the American/Know-Nothing (anti Catholic) Party. Sandwich in between doing everything within his power to maintain the Whig Party (including the Compromise of 1850 and the Fugitive Slave Act, although he was ‘against’ slavery) and you have a bookmark of President.
A surprisingly readable biography for the period when it was written (1953). Praising of Fillmore and a touch biased when recounting his presidential run for the nativist Know-Nothing Party (who knew that 1856 was 160 years too early to win on an anti-immigrant platform?) and his blaming of the Republican Party for the start, and continuation, of the Civil War.Generally though Fillmore is given a justifiable rehabilitation and shown to be a generous citizen of Buffalo, a politician who tried to hold the country together in 1850, and a man of integrity.
A somewhat dated biography of the 13th president. It was an excellent resource to explain the rise and fall of the Whig party. Fillmore seemed to have good intentions but lacked the ability to confront difficult situations head on, especially in regards to slavery. He chose to let things play out - wasn't proactive. He preferred to follow the constitution to the letter as an excuse not to pursue ending slavery. He seemed to be a nice man but not a creative thinker or leader.
Before I read this book, I was under the impression that Millard Fillmore was one of the worst presidents in American history. He took office at a tough time and managed to keep the country from splitting in two. Unfortunately, his successors failed to keep the union together, leading to the Civil War. Masterful job in telling the story of a man that few Americans know about
Great straight forward biography on President Fillmore. I would like the book to have gone deeper on the run up to the Civil War.
The strength of Rayback’s book is in the details of New York state politics: the political machine, the Whig infighting, and Fillmore’s place in the system.
Nevertheless, this book loses credibility as it derails into a hagiography, praising a president who, at best, forestalled the Civil War for a few years, and, at worst, left essentially no imprint on the office of the presidency.
This book is at its best when it examines Fillmore’s principles and penchant for administrative details, and it is at its worst when it seeks to elevate him to the status of being a noteworthy president.
He spent the rest of his life as the #1 citizen of his hometown of Buffalo, putting non-stop time, energy, and money into bettering the city until his death.One thing I've learned over the course of reading what is now 13 presidential biographies is that Americans have, by and large, elected good men as Presidents, at least in the time period between the Revolution and the Civil War. They may not all be great men (though I think a lot of greatness has to do with being elected in a time when huge, complex issues had to be dealt with), and they all had flaws, but overall they were honest, hard-working, humble, and ethical individuals.
Fillmore's defense--he was trying to keep the country together.
Noble.Fillmore was born in the country where is father struggled at farming.
Wanting better for his son he sent him on as many on-the-job training as he could.
One such training was with a lawyer.
Fillmore did not appreciate how this lawyer treated people and risked losing any chance to become a lawyer by leaving since he didn't wanted his reputation tied to this man.
His reputation found him a lawyer to work for and that is how he started with the law.Fillmore was not vengeful, even to people who richly deserved it (I'm talking to you Weed and Seward).
It's clear Rayback likes his subject a lot but he offers very little commentary on Fillmore's presidency as a whole or how we should perceive him now.
This was very interesting when Fillmore was in Congress and pushing tariffs and other economic assistance initiatives.As for Fillmore's presidency, the Compromise of 1850 takes center stage and Rayback does a good job laying out the various concerns that led Fillmore to sign the eventual bill.
His personal life is barely mentioned and Rayback never takes a risk to give his own opinion of Fillmore's presidency.
The author has a huge crush on Millard Fillmore, and that's a peculiar person on whom to have a crush.
Every inference from historical events is made in Fillmore's favor, from his disloyalty to President Taylor, to his support of the Fugitive Slave Act, to his inability to stand up to the South on any issue, or to his flirtation with nativism.
For balance, if you have the time to read to biographies of one of America's most obscure presidents, I recommend Paul Finkleman's biography of Fillmore.
Finkleman HATES Fillmore, and his book suffers from excessive bias from the opposite viewpoint.
However, this does not detract significantly from the overall relevance of the book.The author has done an effective job of painting a more balanced view of Fillmore than the traditional historical view, most of which was based on accounts from Fillmore's political enemies (e.g., Thurlough Weed, who was Fillmore's main rival for control of the Whig party in New York).
Ask anyone what they know about Millard Fillmore and they will probably respond with the fact that he was the most boring president.Going into this biography, I have to admit that I did not have high hopes based just upon the general principal that Pres.
Fillmore would in fact be boring.
And I found it further surprising that he then turned around and ran for the Presidency again in 1852.I went into this book underestimating Millard Fillmore, but now I realize that while he was not a formidable president, he was still an interesting figure in our polical tapestry.
Fillmore, a devoted Whig, was Zachary Taylor's Vice President who succeeded to the office upon Taylor's untimely death in 1850.
Fillmore is probably best known for having successfully navigated the Compromise of 1850 through a sectionally-divided Congress.
The last issue was by far the most controversial, as it was an attempt by Fillmore to foster national unity and minimize sectional division amidst growing concerns over slavery.
Compromise indeed characterized Fillmore's presidency: he was a man who's greatest goal was to preserve the Union at any cost.
Fillmore ran for President (and subsequently lost) again in 1856 as the Know Nothing party candidate, a controversial nationalistic party.
While not altogether perfect and definitely a consummate politician, Fillmore as president acted with diplomacy and an overarching view of his vision for a better America.
It's interesting to see William H Seward, who I just read about in Team of Rivals: The Political Genius of Abraham Lincoln in another light.
I'd almost like to compare and contrast how Fillmore and Seward changed upon attaining their respective heights in the executive branch.
I wonder if Seward had been younger when he finished his service as Secretary of State if he would have tried again for the presidency like Fillmore upon leaving the executive branch.
