https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/23899174-in-the-unlikely-event
I didn't hate this book, necessarily, but it took me about 200 pages to get into it.
By 200 pages, I was invested enough in the characters to care what happened.
I normally wouldn't give a book that much time, but I wanted to finish it and give Judy Blume the benefit of the doubt.
Both are books from authors I like, and both have interesting stories at their core.
I wouldn't dissuade anyone from reading "In the Unlikely Event," but I'm not going to recommend it, either.
Judy Blume.
So of course, I was delighted to find out you had written another book after a seemingly long gap in my life.But alas, "In the Unlikely Event", made me realize I’ve matured.
Yes, it was a good story - fascinating to find out there were 3 plane crashes in Elizabeth, New Jersey which happened within weeks of each other.
Judy, you will "forever" stay a part of my reading history and the joy and magic you brought to my young reading mind, but unfortunately, In this unlikely event, I just feel I've outgrown you.
"It's Not the End of the World", Judy Blume.
For the past 14 years, I've taught middle school students in three schools in Elizabeth, NJ, hometown of Judy Blume and the setting of this novel.
Being a middle school teacher who deals with students close in age to characters in the novel, I can relate to how children in Elizabeth at that time felt, how the crashes affected them, and how the coped, or didn't cope.
As a person who has spent so much time there, who knows the streets that are mentioned (when I taught at Hamilton, I parked on Sayre Street, the street where the protagonist lives) and who knows how much the city has changed, I appreciated that glimpse back into the early 1950s.
And it makes perfect sense, because whether worrying about the mysteries of reproduction or whether the repeated plane crashes are being caused by Communists, Martians, or God, at the end of the day, the typical Blume heroine is really consumed by the existential question of when, how, and *whether* she will mature into adult womanhood - and, if so, how good of a job she will do at it when she gets there.I see many reviews stating the book has too many characters, skips around too much, and you don't get to spend enough time with any of them to, you know, develop a healthy attachment.
Only an established, popular author could have gotten this book published. It's as if she wanted to reminisce about growing up in a small community in New Jersey and the fact that three planes went down over a short period of time would somehow turn it into a tale worth telling. But it didn't. I was bored throughout, always hoping something would make it more exciting. It was kind of like watching old episodes of "Leave it to Beaver," kind of nostalgic, but not what I'm looking for in my reading.
I have a rotation of things I use for bookmarks, and one of them is a recycled piece of mailing cardboard I write good quotes on.
I started Judy Blume's latest with that bookmark, thinking this powerhouse would surely give me some good words to copy.
There's too much telling and not enough showing, and I think her editor must have just passed this through to the printers without a close look at sentence structure and style.
I expect more from Judy Blume than typos and cliches.
I love her young adult books, but Summer Sisters has been a book I’ve re-read for many years and always enjoyed it.
The story had so much promise - three unexplained plane crashes in one town within a sixty day span!
But the book was mainly about the personal lives of several major characters.
Since Blume lived through these crashes herself, I would have thought there would be more emotion in the story, but everything was kept at a distance.
The framework of “35 years later” also fell flat for me, and didn’t add anything to the story other than wrapping up everyone’s storyline.
Judy Blume is back!
I was very excited to receive an advance copy of this book and couldn't wait to dive in.
The book is fiction but it's based on 3 real plane crashes that happened in Elizabeth,NJ in the 1950's.
There are a lot of narrators in this book and by a lot I mean at least 20.
At first I found that really distracting and confusing but as the novel moves forward and you make the connections ( I had to draw a chart) it works really well.
The novel is engaging and heartfelt.
A definite win for Ms. Blume.
When Judy Blume was a child, three planes crashed in her hometown of Elizabeth, New Jersey within three months of each other.
She describes how that time in her life has always haunted her, to the point where she finally chose to do more research and it became the plot for her new book.
The story is told by multiple characters, and they all become inter-connected through the crashes.
My favorite part of these books is how interesting and true Judy was to the 50's.
We all have read other classics by Judy Blume and this one measures up.
Read this book!
Miri is a teen being brought up in a very loving, supportive family--her single mother, Rusty, her grandmother, Irene whose house they live in, and her Uncle Henry.
The story opens in 1987 when Miri is trying to decide if she should board a plane to return to her hometown, Elizabeth NJ.
Thirty-five years earlier when she was a teen, a series of unexplained and tragic plane crashes in Elizabeth, changed Miri's and everyone's life.
When the story is about Miri and her family and friends and her first love, Mason, I found it wonderfully engaging.
At times, that story is over-laid with what feels like short stories or character sketches.
Several aspects of the era are used to build the scenarios around the different people in the book, which makes it interesting reading.
However, several families are introduced with several of them becoming protagonists in the story, which really became a challenge.The author is an excellent storyteller.
I am giving it three stars for the detailed descriptions of the people's lives, the historical events and the entertaining value of sharing so many stories of a community.
This is not about one person, it is about a community and what happened to them, through three generations, after the fatal plane crashes.However, you do have to be patient to finish this book.
I knew going into this book that it was based on actual events; what I didn't know until I got to the author's note at the end was that Judy Blume actually grew up in Elizabeth, New Jersey, and that the plane crashes happened when she was an adolescent.
I always like reading those books that authors have struggled for years to find a way to tell, and it's obvious that the plane crashes have never been far from Judy Blume's mind.
Inspired by a series of passenger airplanes crashed in Elizabeth, New Jersey within a three-month period in 1951–1952, the author brings to life three generations of families, friends, and strangers, who are all profoundly affected by these events, either directly or indirectly.While Blume employs multiple points of view in the narrative it is teenager Miri Ammerman who has the strongest voice.
The large cast may be off-putting to some readers but I felt the the varied perspectives enriched the narrative.Blume successfully brings to life the facts surrounding the New Jersey plane crashes, honouring the real life victims of the tragedies.
Then they went to the movies.I found it monotonous and the only reason I kept going was I did want to know what happened to Miri, one of the many main characters, who are caught up in the events of the early 1950's in Elizabeth, NJ.
Blume has corralled a large group of characters and moves swiftly from one to the other as they talk about their daily lives, their interactions with other characters, their take on current events (especially local) and how they cope with the tragedies happening in their midst.
It's only the characters of Miri, her friend Natalie, and their families which kept me reading.
Judy Blume has kept rather quiet in the last couple of years.
The book is extremely morbid and there were a lot of things I liked, but a few things I didn't.
The book focuses on a bunch of people who are affected by the plane crash.
The book has a lot of little chapters, and each one focuses on different characters, some who repeat, some who are one offs.
I liked a lot of the characters, in particular the very interesting Natalie.
The thing that I enjoyed the most about this book was that it just felt so Judy Blume, if that makes any sense.
1 star. Instead of writing a review, I'm just going to paste the text from an email I sent to my mother this morning and call it a day:Absolutely do not waste your time on Judy Blume's latest. It's the worst-- think The Boston Girl meets plane tragedies with a whole lot of boring yuck thrown in.-Sarah
Maybe 4.5 stars - some pretty good historical fiction here. This wasn't just a run of the mill story about growing up in the 50s. There was a lot of love, tragedy, insanity, heartache, infidelity, intolerance, etc. Blume kept me guessing and I was frequently shocked/surprised throughout.
Miri is traumatized but not as badly as her best friend Natalie who comes to believe that a young dancer named Ruby, killed in the crash, now inhabits her mind and body.By the time the third plane in less than five months crashes over Elizabeth, Miri has met her father, has fallen in love with an orphan teen, and Natalie has landed in a home for girls with eating disorders.
One might think this story contains an overabundance of incident for one year in the life of a teenage girl, but these plane crashes actually happened that year in Elizabeth, NJ, where Judy Blume grew up.
In the unlikely event...she hears the flight attendant saying in her head. Life is a series of unlikely events, isn't it? Hers certainly is. One unlikely event after another, adding up to a rich, complicated whole. And who knows what's still to come? I didn't really know who Judy Blume was, other than some vague memory of my daughter reading her as an adolescent, and for some reason that made me think the author would be younger than I am. I read the excited stories in the media that this would
In the unlikely event...she hears the flight attendant saying in her head.
I didn't really know who Judy Blume was, other than some vague memory of my daughter reading her as an adolescent, and for some reason that made me think the author would be younger than I am.
This is the '50s but under duress and with a sense of things to come.The body of the novel is written in epistolary-like fashion, but without actual letters; the heading is the character whose consciousness we're with at the moment.
Reading about the unlikely events of this book, I remembered that.
I've read Judy Blume books before, this is my 5th, so I knew what to expect.
But it's been 17 years since she wrote her last adult novel, so her fans were duly excited when she published In the Unlikely Event.This book was based on events from her childhood, the tragic crashes of three passenger planes in Elizabeth New Jersey, all within a three month period.
Judy Blume was one of those people, a 13 year old 8th grader.
The character development was excellent and the reader has the sense of, not just the effect of the plane crashes, but also life in 1951 New Jersey.
She lived in Elizabeth during the year the planes fell from the sky, and one can surmise by reading this book that it’s something she’s never really stopped thinking about since.The majority of the book takes place in 1951 and 1952, following a medium sized cast of characters.
I say that objectively Miri is the main character, because the frame narrative–which takes place thirty-five years later is told from her perspective, and because of the characters in 1951-52 she’s the one we spend the most time with–but there are also about ten to fifteen other characters who get POV sections, including some victims of the downed planes.This is actually one of the things about the book that didn’t really work for me.
I really enjoyed this one.
I haven't read Judy Blume other than Are you There God It's Me Margaret waaay back when in the olden days.
I like the way she writes.
It's not high brow literature, it was just a good story.
Apparently this is based on real events from the town where Ms. Blume grew up.
I cannot imagine how any town would be able to cope with three planes crashes.
I loved finding out how all the character's stories came together.
I also liked that I got to find out how everyone's lives turned out as they got older.
I have been reading Judy Blume since I was a teenager, and love her adult fiction!
You can feel the heartache and fear from the loss...I also love how she looks at family dynamics during that time period - the life of a single mother and daughter; a family that seems to be on solid footing, but cracking beneath the surface; an orphaned teenager who depends on an older brother; and, a first generation family whose old-world values persist...it is a dynamic book that I found hard to put down!
Way too many points of view. The book kept jumping from person to person and it was hard to get invested.
I was so happy when I saw that Judy Blume had written another book and a little bit scared because it was one of her adult books.
All of a sudden I started to discover other Judy books that seemed a little bit taboo, books I thought I’d get in trouble reading, but that were so open and frank and spoke to my eleven-twelve year old self.
Not that I would have wanted to anyway, so Judy was my everything during that stage of my life.As I got older and read the more adult books, meh, they didn’t really fascinate me as much.
An eighth grade student named Judy Blume was a resident of Elizabeth during that time and she's used those real crashes as a base for this imaginative tale of daily life in the New Jersey of the early 1950, with its delicate balance between Jews and Christians ("coloreds" receive barely a mention and even Greeks are seen as "others"), its slowly changing morality and the stress of living under the shadow of McCarthyism and the Korean War. The story is artfully written in alternating points of view (the story is about the entire town, but rarely was I confused, and when I did lose track of a character mentioned only a few times, thank goodness for Kindle's x-ray function), but is primarily the story of the Ammerman family, teenage Miri, single mother Rusty and her brother Henry who is the a new staff writer for the Elizabeth Daily Journal and is almost immediately thrust into the story of his career.
This came across more as a love letter to the 1950’s or a homage to the plane crash victims, than a story with an actual plot.
The perspective changed so many times, I felt like I needed to write myself a cheat sheet just to keep everyone straight.
It didn’t add anything to the story, but words.If you can’t tell by now, I wasn’t a big fan.
And I have to mention the sex scenes - awkward.
I get it, she was known for being taboo back in the day, but now with contemporary romance and erotic fiction being so mainstream, these scenes made me cringe.
I got to POV #13 or 14 and just decided to stop. i am a restless reader of late it seems.
Judy Blume, the author of this novel 'In the Unlikely Event', grew up in Elizabeth, New Jersey and was a teenager at the time of the crashes.
The main character, Miri Ammerman, who had been 15 years old at the time of the disasters is preparing to board a plane from her home in Nevada back to New Jersey to attend a commemoration of the events of 1951/52.
If you don't have such an emotional attachment to Judy Blume's books for young adults, then I dare say you just might love this story.
Judy Blume  returns with her adult novel IN THE UNLIKELY EVENT, as we revisit the fifties, with an event which changes the course of lives.
In the Unlikely Event is more of a coming-of age story, as Blume focuses a young girl who is fifteen years old.
During this time the characters experience grief, and of course life as it has to go on from friendship, insecurities, dreams, divorce, careers, estranged parents, and first loves.A compelling read,  of life changing events, stories, and secrets.
For generations, Judy Blume has told stories, and a nice tribute for all the generations of readers and listeners.
