https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/34897.The_Dragon_Reborn
Love it!! Nuff said! Mel ❤️
He is still the centre of the story, but its telling is given over to much more interesting characters like Mat, Nynaeve and my personal favourite Perrin.
For the Pattern of an age, good and ill are the warp and the woof.’Moreover, in this bleak and dark world that Jordan has created, Perrin is one of the few with a pure heart, which makes his inner darkness even more complex.
It was great to see these characters have their own fully developed side story that eventually linked back to the main plot.
Every perfect fantasy story needs it rouge  Mat has also come along way.
3/7/16: WoT #3 buddy (re)read in  BB&B ! I'm thinking I might read it again just b/c. LOVE it. Reviewed by: Rabid ReadsNOTICE: this reread is in preparation for finally biting the bullet and reading book 14. That means I HAVE NOT read book 14 yet. Please be mindful of this in the comments, both for me and for others who may or may not have progressed past this point in the series. Thank you.The Dragon Reborn is where things really start getting good. PLEASE NOTE that I am speaking strictly f
Perrin meets Faile.I don't know if prior-to-book 3-Mat was part of Jordan's character growth process, or if he just got bored with the character--I certainly found the early version to be tiresome--but when Mat wakes from being Healed in Tar Valon, he's almost a completely different person.
In another life (HA!), he would have made an excellent pirate.It's the difference between telling a couple of younger boys a story about ghost hounds, then covering a few dogs in flour and loosing them on the village green, and betting Galad and Gawyn that he can beat them, his quarterstaff against their two swords, both b/c he needs the money to finance his escape, and also b/c "it would be fun."Then there's Faile.
DNF @ 30%Dear Wheel of time I am breaking up with you.This wasn't easy decision as I don't like to l
The third book in the series is a bit strange, in my opinion. It draws away from Rand, who I firmly believe is the main character, despite the infinitely large cast.The book instead follows the various subgroups that are in a quest to follow Rand, and his path of destruction, whether they know it or not.Mat finally gets a POV chapter and stops sucking and starts being a fount of pure, unadulterated awesome. Perrin stops mid-story to do a little blacksmithing; central to Perrin’s character. He’s a born craftsman forced into the role of a warrior.
This book paves way for Mat, Perrin, and Egwene to shine.
Mat, Perrin, Rand, and Egwene all got their separate story arcs here as they all went their different ways in the start of the book.
So when Rand went in to Tear to take Callandor and put the rumours down for once and all; it was Mat, Perrin and the girl gang (Egwene, Nynaeve, Elyane) who took the center stage here.
While the girls were good, it was Perrin and Mat who won my heart in this book.
I hated Mat from Book 1, so I am shocked how much I liked him here.
A very compelling continuation of The Wheel of Time series, but not amazing as The Great hunt.There’s a very interesting decision by Jordan to push Rand to the background so Mat and Perrin would shine in his absence and it worked very well.
All in all, it’s a very good installment in the Wheel of Time series, with very good character development, fascinating world-building and pretty good plot(but not as good as in book 2).4.25/5
Thus begins a new journey, and at its end lies the Stone of Tear, the impregnable fortress of the Tairen in the far south.The Dragon Reborn, while not reaching the same level as The Eye of the World, is certainly an improvement from The Great Hunt.
Perrin and Egwene, however, stand ready to assume the inglorious mantle of the worst characters.Mostly, though, this book is a solid addition to the story of the Wheel of Time, and the ending is great, leaving the reader excited for the next volume, The Shadow Rising.That's all there is to say, really.
*** 5 *** An amazing continuation of this epic series!
I can not help but keep falling deeper and deeper in love with everything about it...
Writing a review, the way I fan-girl over this series, is absolutely worthless.
I have no objectivity left and honestly, attempting to describe this intricate and complex plot seems to me an insurmountable task.
If you are even slightly interested in the genre of Classic Fantasy, or High Quest Fantasy, and I would say the restrictions of those labels are far outreached in this series, this should be a MUST READ!!!
Epic and entertaining.
The other reason is the character are becoming more developed and while at time I want to box their ears for fighting against their destiny/power/specialness so much instead of embracing it and just going with it.Shorter review for me than normal since there are a bazillion reviews on this series.
He is definitely a lot more interesting now.Mat also gets the best fight scene in this book and I totally loved how he was able to take down Elayne’s brothers with a quarterstaff.
Even though I got a little tired of Egwene always fighting stubbornly with Nynaeve over EVERYTHING the rest of their story arc is really interesting.
This is one where they walk a lot.No mention of plot, since this is the third book in a fourteen book series, and I'd hate to spoil anyone.
This is classical fantasy at its best, and possibly also classical fantasy at its most descriptive.
A surprise, since this is the third one, but I felt like plot-wise not a lot happened for the first 60% but then I couldn't put it down during the last few hundred pages.Also, thank you, to whoever pointed out braid tugging to me, now I can't help but notice just how often Jordan's women randomly tug on their braids.
“We rode on the winds of the rising storm,We ran to the sounds of the thunder.We danced among the lightning bolts,and tore the world asunder.”    4.5 Stars: ✰✰✰✰ Been falling a tad behind on my review-writing haha, but I always catch up =]. My reviews from this point out might get somewhat shorter, because the deeper you go into a series (especially one so long as this), the harder it is to write full-length reviews without spoilers. Unless I have something exceptionally good, or exceptionally
Not quite as good at it's predecessor, but where that book focused a great deal on developing the story and world, this book commits a good bit of time towards developing the characters, and this was much needed.
Perrin, Egwene, and Mat each get A LOT of air time in this book, making for a pretty big shift in the narrative, but I actually loved it.
What I mean by "formulas" is that when you pick up a certain book, you know how it's going to start and how it's going to end before you even read the back cover.
Great characters, amazing worldbuilding, and an excellent story.
While I'm glad more modern fantasy has developed and become more original, I just find it so refreshing to go back to the genre at its core and this series just makes me so happy for them reasons :D The Dragon Reborn is actually my favourite book so far and this is why...
In this installment, there is much less POV time for Rand and I actually think this does wonders for the series, as it allows every other character and plot line to develop massively.
Like the first couple of WoT books The Dragon Reborn started a little slow and then developed into quite an engaging and exciting read.
Despite being titled The Dragon Reborn this book was notable for the distinct absence of Rand as a POV character.
That meant that Perrin, Egwene, and Mat had to pick up the slack.
It was the making of both Mat and Perrin as both have now developed nicely as characters.
Perrin is now just dependably likeable and interesting.
Her story was interesting, but she herself has gotten a bit less likeable.
2.5 stars.So far I struggled with all books I read from this series.
I normally enjoy journey books, but the ones from Wheel of Time might be the exception.
The constant repetition during most of the book had me wondering how this book passed the edition phase.There are some points that I liked:-Matt's character development was really well handled.
However, I when I finished this book, the only feeling I had was one of wasting time in a underwhelming journey.I might try the next book as I was told that it is one of the best in the series.
In my previous "review" of the second book in this series, I mentioned that there are a number of kind of obvious signals a man wrote this.
I don't mind that, I'm not saying that's bad, it just amuses me.
Below is my proof from this book that you can tell a man wrote and designed this world (and this map!) In the lower right corner, I offer you the phallic symbol.
In the overall picture of the island of the Aes Sedai, and the waters surrounding it, I invite you to admire with me the startling similarity to lady parts.
I'm continuing my reread, in preparation for next year's grand finale, but I'm sorry to have gotten a bit behind in my reviews.It's crazy to think that the events from this book, book 3 in the Wheel of Time, The Dragon Reborn [US] [UK], were actually supposed to be the conclusion to the first book in the trilogy.
so many more could make such a better cover.To top it all off, I actually didn't even really like Mat the first time through.
The Wheel of Time series represents, for me, the perfect example of a guilty pleasure in the world of fantasy.This series is not actually written very well.
Robert Jordan was not a very good wordsmith, and he really only knew how to say and describe things one way.
Many people also love and adore these books, and will forever place The Wheel of Time series upon their list of all-time favorite books.
Either way, you'll have exposed yourself to one of the most famous fantasy series of all time.
I think my journey to finally get to the Wheel of Time is almost as long as the series itself.
Rand wasn't really in that book, although he played a pivotal role and we actually see a lot more of Mat, Perryn, Egwene, Nynave and Elayne.This is actually a gutsy decision for a novel series that follows some very classical plot routes of "boy with a destiny against a dark lord".Overall I cherished the scenic road this time, tried to dig into the mysteries and prophcies and learnt more about some different towns, cultures and factions.
And now I'm interested to find out what will happen to those characters (I have 2-3 wild theories) and what the hell will be the content of another 11 books in that series.
"The Wheel of Time turns, and Ages come and pass, leaving memories that become legend.
Legend fades to myth and even myth is long forgotten when the Age that gave it birth returns again.What was, what will be, and what is, may yet fall under the Shadow."This book opens with Perrin!
I do understand why what has happened to him but I find Rand really annoying but same time I really like Rand because he is one of my favourite characters.I love this book so much Alhamdulillah!
I feel great to come back reading 'The Wheel of Time'.
My loathing of Egwene may have something to do with my inability to read/listen to this in large chunks, but it really was tough going for a while there.
Now you know who you are, I hope you will be able to love yourself.Mat - YAS!
His (view spoiler)[love story (hide spoiler)] hit me over the head with little warning.
Egwene mooning over Rand.
It's like she was riding Lan the whole time.
Just putting it out there that some things seemed a little too convenient in this one, but I still loved it and can't wait to jump into the next one.
Re-read time over at BB&BThis is another excellent WoT entry by Robert Jordan.
Unfortunately I let a week pass after finishing this one, reading a bunch of other books and also making some inroads into the next WoT book before thinking of writing this review.
So basics it is.
And some random shout outs.- Rand is on a dangerous mission to the stone of Tear in order to find out the truth.
To be the Dragon, or not to be the Dragon.- Matt is healed in Tar Valon and shows some pretty cool fighting skills and language talents.
- Callandor.- Epic fights.
The Dragon Reborn!READ IT!!!
Unlike the previous book, this one has Rand's POV for about 10 pages total; now it is his turn to take a backseat for Perrin and Mat as well as wonder girls (Nynaeve, Egwene, and Elaine).
Mat finally gets his own POV and it quickly becomes one of the most interesting in the book and stays that way throughout the series consistently - there is a reason why his name often pops up in the lists of the best fantasy characters ever.
As a result, the girls' training became much lesser priority for them then to stay alive.
There was less of Rand (who I’m having difficulty feeling sympathy for right now) and more of the other folks from Two Rivers.I loved the amount of page-time spent with Egwene, Elayne and Nynaeve!
How dare women have power and plans of their own?I’m also liking Perrin and Mat much more than I did in book 2.
I’ve already got a hold on volume 4 at the library and I’m ready for the Wheel of Time to continue to turn.Book number 278 in my Science Fiction and Fantasy reading project.
The narrative splits again after Mat is healed, so for the most of the book, POVs alternate between the girls (mostly Egwene, but the occasional Nynaeve as well), Mat after leaving Tar Valon, and Perrin and the rest chasing after Rand, who appears to be on his way to Tear, the place where the Dragon Reborn is destined to reveal himself.You'll notice I mention nothing of Rand POVs, and that's because he's barely in this one.
I still like Egwene, but her character suffers because of the way Jordan writes women (he is mostly terrible at it), and to a lesser extent the Aes Sedai.
This book stands up pretty well to the quality of the first two but I did start to notice some flaws.First off, I have seen this about this series everywhere but for some reason did not notice Nynaeve's braid tugging until this book.OMFG.The first time I noticed it, I was actually kind of amused because of how it is a running joke in reviews I've seen for the series.
I don't know if I would have finished this book if the scenes that she is in were primarily from her perspective instead of Egwene's.The only other thing that bothered me from other characters was that Mat's solving every problem with lots of gambling seemed a little forced to me.
- So three books in and stereotypes are forming.Rand can do no wrong, Perrin is always constipated and Mat is annoying.Oh, and each one thinks the other two are better than him in talking to girls.
And, of course, I like Galad.- Also, how very Harry Potter-esque(or is it the other way around?): we only see Ba'alzamon in dream-sequences and at the very end of each book during a major fight.
And why does Rand think he's killed Ba'alzamon in every book.
Plenty of time to kill him, right?- Last confession: I like the fact that the books center around the rest of the characters and not just Rand.
Fantastic book.This might be my favourite book in the series. It's tough to choose between the first three books. The Great Hunt probably has the best middle, but the last third of Dragon Reborn probably has some of the best chapters of the whole series. I definitely recommend the whole Wheel of Time series.
LOVE. RTC*still needs more Lan
This provides a distance between the naive and confused farm-boy Rand who has so far been swept along by events, and the harder one who has learned something of using the Power and manipulating people that we begin to know in the next book.The parts of this book that I enjoyed the most are the stories of Mat and Perrin.
Love Perrin.A third major focus of the book is at the White Tower with Egwene and Nynaeve.
