https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/622855.A_Murder_of_Quality
But that does not prevent A Murder of Quality (1962) from being a well-written, entertaining book.In an introduction to a paperback edition issued almost thirty years after its original publication, le Carre wrote that “rereading the book now, I find a flawed thriller redeemed by ferocious and quite funny social comment.” I think that is an accurate assessment.
Some of the social comment targets the non-conformist Christian communities of the laboring class, but the most ferocious—and most amusing—satire is reserved for the upper-class English boarding school, which the author pillories for its cruelty, its insularity, and its snobbishness.
A dog that had not bitten the postman; a devil that rode upon the wind; a woman who knew that she would die; a little, worried man in an overcoat standing in the snow outside his hotel, and the laborious chime of the Abbey clock telling him to go to bed. In this second book in the George Smiley series, Miss Brimley calls him because she is concerned about a letter she received for the small publication, The Christian Voice where a woman named Stella (Glaston) Rode writes that she fears her husb
In this second book in the George Smiley series, Miss Brimley calls him because she is concerned about a letter she received for the small publication, The Christian Voice where a woman named Stella (Glaston) Rode writes that she fears her husband is going to kill her.
Ailsa Brimley used to work with George Smiley years before and she wanted him to check into this before going to the police.
Even though it takes place in Carne, where his ex-wife grew up and where her family still live, he feels compelled to go and is urged to do so by Ailsa Brimley.Thus begins A Murder of Quality and the story grips you and carries you along through to the end.
I haven't exactly rushed to read John le Carré's books, but whenever I've gotten around to it, I'm always glad I did!The man can write.
The characters feel like real people, which is sometimes a knock on mystery/crime writers.
Carré spends more time rounding out his characters than your typical who-dun-it writer.
A change of pace is good!A Murder of Quality goes old school.
Smiley is a central figure in many of Carré's books.
A Murder of Quality is another book of quality by Carré!
Absolutely excellent.
My first meeting with George Smiley and certainly an error I will be correcting in the months to come.
A very interesting character.
The whole book was a condemnation of the British class system, reinforced by the afterword by John Le Carre.
In it, he admits that the kernels of this story are routed in his own experience of public school and consequent post as a Junior master at Eton:'I recognise the dankness of those old stone walls that formed the limits of my childhood and left me for the rest of my life with an urge to fight off whatever threatened to enclose me.'
I think I enjoyed LeCarre's writing even more than the mystery.Example: "Smiley himself was one of those solitaries who seem to have come into the world fully educated at the age of eighteen.
He could collect their gestures and their words, record the interplay of glance and movement, as a huntsman can record the twisted bracken and the broken twig, or as a fox detects the signs of danger."I may have to read another LeCarre novel.
All this time I had been clear in my mind that George Smiley was a spy master and that John le Carré writes spy novels.  A Murder of Quality , the second novel in the George Smiley series, blew both of those assumptions away completely. While you could argue that Smiley is technically a spy, he's retired from the service. When his friend and former colleague from their days in the intelligence services, Ailsa Brimley, receives a paranoid letter from a subscriber to her magazine, The Christian Vo
All this time I had been clear in my mind that George Smiley was a spy master and that John le Carré writes spy novels.
Brim is determined to make sure she investigates the claim from such a loyal subscriber and so she goes to the only man she knows who can advise her: George Smiley.There are no spies here, no moles, no cold war, no double-cross at Checkpoint Charlie.
This is a straight up murder mystery, but one that sets up Smiley's understated detecting capabilities perfectly: a murder committed exactly as in the letter but the husband has a solid alibi.
At no point did I really want to compete with Smiley, I was enjoying the novel too damn much...

Reading John Le Carre's writing is like treating yourself to a fine wine.
It is not to be sped through or swigged.
His words and passages lend themselves to being slowly consumed and savored.
A Murder of Quality was set in present day when it was published over 50 years ago.
Thus the sound of a milk truck chugging from house to house in the early morning hours with the milkman making his front porch deliveries is not out of place.
George Smiley, ex-British Secret Intelligence agent, is asked by a longtime friend to look into a matter which turns into a murder most foul.
It is a simple murder mystery, told by the master.
Η αποστολέας του γράμματος, σύζυγος καθηγητή της Σχολής Κάρνε, δολοφονείται και ο Τζορτζ Σμάιλι, φίλος της δεσποινίδας Μπρίμλι, επισκέπτεται το Κάρνε για να εξιχνιάσει το έγκλημα.Ένα αστυνομικό μυθιστόρημα που στερείται της ατμόσφαιρας των βιβλίων του είδους, με χαρακτήρες και γεγονότα που απλώς καταγράφονται, χωρίς να επιτρέπεται στον αναγνώστη να μπει μέσα στην ιστορία, γεγονός που τον κρατάει αμέτοχο παρατηρητή και μειώνει το ενδιαφέρον.Το πρώτο μισό του βιβλίου είναι αρκετά βαρετό και χωρίς σασπένς.Μοιάζει περισσότερο με ένα πρώτο σχεδιάγραμμα, ένα κείμενο που μετά από επεξεργασία, προσθέσεις κι αλλαγές θα μπορούσε να γίνει ένα καλό αστυνομικό μυθιστόρημα.
(hide spoiler)]This is a novel about snobbery and sexual repression at least as much as a simple murder-mystery; though the characters were so very, repetitively, obsessed with the minutiae of class distinction that it started to seem déclassé, more like social-climbing Hyacinth Bucket than landed gentry and their cousins.
Though I preferred being at this point in time, knowing that The Sixties were about to start unravelling the social-class straitjacket shown here (and attacked, with a certain amount of ambiguity), rather than thinking of the characters going off to war in a while.
Set in an exclusive boarding school, Carne School in Dorset, this is obviously something which the author feels strongly about, considering that he spent much of his life from the age of five (so young!) in such institutions, as well as teaching at Eton.In this book, Smiley is contacted by Miss Ailsa Brimley, who he knew from the war.
However, when he investigates, he finds that Mrs Rode was killed the previous evening, in a vicious attack at her home.This is an unusual novel in the Smiley series, but well worth reading if you enjoy crime and mystery books and also offers insights into the character of George Smiley - as the area where the story is set is the one in which his wife, Ann, grew up.
But in reality, he has a gift.It was a peculiarity of Smiley's character that throughout the whole of his clandestine work he had never managed to reconcile the means to the end.
A stringent critic of his own motives, he had discovered after long observation that he tended to be less a creature of intellect than his tastes and habits might suggest; once in the war he had been described by his superiors as possessing the cunning of Satan and the conscience of a virgin, which seemed to him not wholly unjust.It's hard to find a more lovable genre character than Smiley.
A good little murder mystery that kept me guessing until the end
Started off brilliantly but ended with a whimper, as the ending felt contrived and unrealistic.
The story starts when a colleague of Smiley contacts him to help with a letter she has received from a reader of the magazine she edits.
As Smiley gets more involved all the great ingredients you find in le carre`s book are there - great characters minutely observed, a taste for the depressing england of the post war period, and finally an intricate problem that Smiley progressively gets closer to solving.
Also the environment of the public school captured wonderfully (based on the authors time at Eton as a teacher).

'A Murder of Quality' is the second in the George Smiley series and is a straightforward murder mystery set in a private boy’s school which makes it an anomaly given the other books are set in the world of espionage and spying.
As with 'Call for the Dead', the first George Smiley novel, part of what is so marvellous about this book is how John le Carré allows the reader to enter Smiley’s mind and the slow, deliberate machinations as he grapples with complex problems.
I loved it, and I am pressing straight on with 'The Spy Who Came In from the Cold' as I work through all the Smiley books.4/5
John le Carré is a terrific writer.Although he is probably best known for his Cold War era spy novels, "A Murder of Quality" is one of his earlier books - the second in the George Smiley series.A London detective, retired civil servant George Smiley is described by one of his colleagues: "He looks like a frog, dresses like a bookie, and has the brain I'd give my eyes for".
The unassuming and easily forgettable Smiley takes us along with him on his journey to discover the murderer and it is this journey that makes this book so special.The murder occurs at Carne, an elite English boarding school for boys.
I have read and enjoyed the majority of John Le Carré’s ‘Smiley’ novels – so I was delighted to find this little gem tucked away in a second-hand bookstore just south of the Canadian border!Set in and around a stately English public school in the depths of a snowy winter, it drips with atmosphere.
Smiley must employ all his skills to penetrate the cloistered establishment.Expecting a tale of espionage (the cover of my US edition features a man with a pistol hovering over the body of a glamorous woman) – I soon realised that here was actually a whodunit.
What a book...And despite a lot of low reviews, this book really says a lot about British 'culture' when it comes to the public school, a place where boys (or girls) are introduced to their place in society.
The dead woman was married to a teacher at 'Carne,' a public (private, elite, upper-class) boy's school, but she didn't quite fit in, was sort of a maverick who ignored the societal rules and manners she was expected to uphold.
There are portions of the book which describe personalities we all know from the news - politics, entertainment, the media, etc.
The second book in the George Smiley series is another intriguing mystery.
Miss Brimley, editor of a small Christian newspaper, receives a letter from Stella Rodes, a long-time subscriber, asking for advice.
Stella is the wife of an assistant master at the Carne School and she claims her husband wants to kill her.
Brimley contacts her friend Smiley and shows him the letter.
Using his personal connections with Carne, he goes there in a private capacity and begins peeling back the layers of the complicated public school culture.
George Smilely solves a murder. Cynical but in this format, an easy whodonit. Must enjoyable aspect was the interactions with the detective.
"Έγκλημα ποιότητας", εκδόσεις Bell.Τον Μάρτιο του 2015 είχα διαβάσει το "Τηλεφώνημα για το νεκρό" (aka "Η τελευταία κλήση", εκδόσεις Καστανιώτη), ένα βιβλίο με το οποίο άρχισε την μεγάλη συγγραφική του καριέρα ο φοβερός Τζον Λε Καρέ.
Λοιπόν: Είναι φανερό ότι με τα δυο πρώτα βιβλία με ήρωα τον φοβερό Τζορτζ Σμάιλι, ο Τζον Λε Καρέ έψαχνε ακόμα να βρει τα πατήματά του σαν συγγραφέας.
Σίγουρα ο Τζον Λε Καρέ, ο μαιτρ των κατασκοπευτικών θρίλερ, έχει γράψει τουλάχιστον δεκαπέντε μυθιστορήματα καλύτερα και πιο σύνθετα από αυτό (καθώς και το αμέσως προηγούμενο).
This is another George Smiley story in the series by an excellent writer.
In this book George Smiley who is retired from the British Secret Service, is called by an old friend, Ailsa Brimley of a small newspaper to investigate a troubling letter she received from a worried reader.
Smiley immerses himself with the professors and locals and listens and learns about them and the community.
As he uncovers their secrets and hatreds, he solves the mystery.
Smiley is such a likable, smart and unassuming character.
It is an enjoyable book for mystery lovers.
At the end of it all, I think I enjoyed the book a lot more than my husband did…but it's still something of a disappointment.Like Le Carré's first book, A Murder of Quality has the same problems for me as a) a book placed in time before my birth and b) a book set in England—and in the English boarding school system, at that—putting it outside of my common cultural context.
Mysteries basically go one of two ways; either the author lays clues like breadcrumbs throughout the narrative, giving the reader a chance to put the pieces together ahead of the big reveal at the end, or authors withhold key information, making it impossible for the reader to put the pieces together themselves.
More like 2.5 rating.  DISCLAIMER : It's just another murder mystery dammit!!  Well, even though the novel started out enigmatic, it lost it's steam at the climax where it contradicts everything it was working towards. Clearly, Le Carre hates public school(which he mentions in the Afterword).
Just your average murder mystery. The only reason it falls into the realm of espionage is that the main character solving the murder is a former English spy.
3.5/5This is an odd entry in the works of le Carre, chronicling the later life of George Smiley.
(view spoiler)[Smiley calls another master there, the brother of one of his late friends, to find that this woman has indeed been murdered, so travels down to hand the letter over to local detectives and becomes embroiled in the investigation.
(hide spoiler)]So, this is George Smiley as a free agent, outside the Circus.
It seems that le Carre may have been toying with setting his character up as a detective - more Father Brown than Sherlock Holmes, although there is something Holmesian in the way the plot unfolds, with Smiley's vast, if ponderous, intellect processing all the details and building a picture nobody else can see.
I have started a small project to read my way through all the George Smiley novels.
With memories that vague, I think I should consider it my first reading even if it actually isn't.We think of George Smiley as a spy and of the novels he is in as spy novels.
My wife loves these TV programmes (and reads all the books, too), and this novel sits alongside them as a short but well-told murder mystery that gradually uncovers people's dark, hidden secrets.
There are never any happy people in a detective novel!It is a very quick read - just 147 pages.
To read a Le Carre is akin to engaging in an all-night conversation with a learned colleague of subtle wit and rare insight into the human condition and its body politic.
This one is about the dark underbelly of an elite boarding school, investigated with as much attention to detail as the gruesome death of a teacher's non-conformist wife.If you're interested in Le Carre (and you should be, if the current world politics at all trouble your sleep), then this is a good place to start, not at all as ponderous and dense as his later work, but just as engaging.
I love le Carré so much that I put off reading this, because a domestic murder mystery seemed too pedestrian for my favorite espionage novelist (probably favorite novelist).
Luckily, he concerns himself with many of the same themes, as evidenced by this quote about Smiley: "Making his way through the Carne streets, he reflected for the hundredth time on the obscurity of motive in human action: there is no true thing on earth.
There is no constant, no dependable point, not even in the purest logic or the most obscure mysticism; least of all in the motives of men when they are moved to act violently." There was an unpredictable twist, and a neat and tidy ending, both worthy of more famous "mystery" novelists.
