https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2015.The_Eyes_of_Heisenberg
If we liked it, we might read it a second or even a third time.
If we really liked it, we may occasionally go further: read books that it refers to or that influenced it, check out a biography of the author, perhaps find a doctoral dissertation that provides further details.
A few thousand years later, when we were busy with another author of the same period, we'd be able to reread our previous work, see how our ideas had changed and revise a few things.
I quite liked the immortals and felt sorry that they couldn't go on with their cultural studies for another few million years.
The Eyes of Heisenberg is a fascinating glimpse at a world where reliance on genetics has become the sole principle of human survival, and embryos are carefully "cut" to a specific mold to ensure that randomization is not a factor.
Looking past this, the book is above average and also provides Herbert fans with a glimpse at many factors of Dune.
Many themes that appear in Dune are explored in The Eyes of Heisenberg: immortality, reliance on pharmaceuticals, and an apathetic ruling class.
Set in the far future in a time when Optimen lived for tens of thousand of years, The Eyes of Heisenberg is kind of like 1984 on Steroids.
For one thing, I think to fully understand the story, you need an advanced degree in biochemistry.
Secondly, it was never fully explained why things were happening.
So although the concept was interesting, and there was good character development in the story, I found the novel more exasperating than anything else.Carl Alves - author of Blood Street
Of course, the powerful rulers eventually think about it and lose their balance based on a family vs.
We are meant to detest these ruling class overlords, then realize their human failures and try to understand - very cool, if standard sci-fi, ideas.Stylistically, though, this book jumped so far so fast after a huge intro that didn't even paint a full view of what this dystopia must look like, the jargon was oftentimes laughably impenetrable, and the unraveling of a massive government that could and has destroyed thousands with a wrist flick becomes a simple machine god that solves itself.
And I must say, a damn good one it is.Frank envisions a world of genetic manipulation is this book, a world governed by Optimen, mortals who have been gene manipulated to the point of living forever - almost.
They just don’t happen any more in this sterile controlled world.Under the Optimen are the Folk, lesser gene manipulated mortals who only live hundreds of years.
What perfect society ever does?This novel tells the tale of some Folk wishing to procreate on their own, and underground resistence to the overseers (the Optimen) who grand breeding licenses to those worthy.
-Ni sí ni no, ni todo lo contrario.-Género.
Ciencia-Ficción.Lo que nos cuenta.
En una sociedad con tensiones entre Folks, Optimen y Cyborgs, el señor y la señora Durant, Folks ellos mismos y con permiso para reproducirse, van a la clínica reproductiva del doctor Thei Svengaard y exigen su derecho legal a la vigilancia del proceso al que será sometido su óvulo fecundado.
Molesto pero obligado, Svengaard comienza su trabajo antes de que llegue el experto designado para ayudarle, Potter, y descubre que la mórula presenta una particularidad que sólo se ha documentado otras ocho veces: es resistente.¿Quiere saber más de este libro sin spoilers?
Frank Herbert's answer to 'Brave New World' and '1984', so be prepared for an allegory of life, the triumph of maternal (and paternal) instinct, and the fallibility of eternity.
It's actually quite engaging and thought-provoking.There's a lot of interesting concepts and philosophies wrapped up in here, but it's far too convoluted, and many aspects of the story (such as the cyborgs, who served little purpose) could have been dropped in favour of expanding the world and the plot.
Also, be warned, there are large segments brimming with pseudo-biological jargon, and unless you're an esoteric scientist, be prepared for a world of confusion.The ending is also spectacularly unsatisfying, with no concrete conclusions for any of our surviving characters.

Somewhat interesting premise. Weak ending.
As a fourteen year old, I stepped onto the sands of Dune, introduced to the worldview and metaphysics of Nietzsche, Cynics, Agnostics, all wholly alien to my teleological, Roman Catholic worldview.
Reading this book as a 34 year old, I can reply with certainty that that is incorrect.
I truly think the story's natural end was when Paul walked into the desert in 'Dune Messiah', refusing to play a part in the totalitarian machinations any longer.
Sure, nine year olds want a big Death Star explosion at the end, but even though I still like 'Star Wars', that is a simple ending that belongs with a simple story.
When I found Brian Herbert’s Eyes of Heisenberg, I assumed it would be a plot based around Werner Heisenberg’s “uncertainty principle.” I wasn’t expecting to find a novel that dovetailed with the material on genetics in a recent book I read by a neuroscientist, Mind of God: Neuroscience, Faith, and a Search for the Soul.
Yet, Herbert posits a force within evolution itself that works against this human manipulation.This mysterious force is interesting as its own idea, but the plot “sickens.” In Eyes of Heisenberg, this utopian ideal is supported by use of the general population as breeding stock for those “fortunate” few who have become the near-immortal Optimen.
pas de racines).(view spoiler)[Prototype du ghola Duncan Idaho, à travers le personnage de Max Allgood, chef de la sécurité auprès des Optimhomme, qui les adore, mais finira par se rebeller parce qu'il découvrira qu'il n'est qu'un des multiples doubles de lui-même utilisés à ce poste.Dès qu'un Max Allgood ne convient plus ou se rebelle, les Optimhommes le tuent et le remplacent par un autre double Max Allgood.Dans les yeux d'Heisenberg également, les doubles sont de moins en moins bonne qualité, changent au fur et à mesure des clonages, alors que c'est le même patrimoine génétique (→ évoquation d'une mémoire génétique d'un individu à l'autre chère à Franck Herbert).« Quel Max...
Heisenberg, as in uncertainty, starts this story off and becomes the rationale for all the subsequent actions. In this far future society, there are grades or castes of people. They are arranged by their genetics: the top are immortals, next come, the almost immortal, at the bottom are the ordinary people. The story starts with some lab preparing to process a zygote for a couple who were lucky enough to be chosen for having a baby. The zygote is examined by the doctor and he sees some unexpecte
The zygote is examined by the doctor and he sees some unexpected change happen that makes this little one special, even more special than the immortals.
These immortals have a tribunal that rules daily life, and as they come to understand that the zygote is special and try to find it, etc., they bring about their own destruction.
You never find out quite what is so special about the little one, but the parents and attending doctor protect it, and, in the end, implant it in the woman for carrying.
A nice dystopian story.
Once again humanity has made itself into multiple classes of elite and workers and poor.
No one is happy and society is starting to break down.
Along comes the trigger that blows all of the nicely set up structures and sends everything out of control.
In this case its a baby who will be fully human and beyond the elite's control.
In the end all the players come together triggering a distaster amoung the elites that results in them having to relise and rethink thier status and needs of the rest of humanity.
A very good read, I enjoyed.
If I had read this book rather than listened, I think I would have given it 4 stars. Listening, though, was a serious drawback. There were many places I wanted to go back and reread a section but it was too difficult. The audio version also made it more difficult to follow the events.
Me lo he leído entero porque... Frank Herbert! Pero tiene 1,5 estrellas. No me ha llegado nada la historia ni los personajes y eso que resulta fácil empatizar con ellos. En fin, no he tenido suerte con estas últimas novelas cortas que estoy leyendo.
It was a good piece of old-fashioned science fiction. There were definitely some parallels with the Dune books when it came to the rulers cloning their favorites so they would always have them in their service. Overall, it was a quick, enjoyable read.
nice work of the young herbert with some pollish work to be done, some things could be shorter, digress a little less but some themes present in later work are here touched upon / overal, the them in this novel is hot and relevant in 2018 (and beyond)
It's good, in that I admire the author and sympathize with his themes, but Dune covers the same ground MUCH better. I would be so disappointed if anyone read this before Dune, or even read this instead of reading Dune for a second time.The author's obsession with these themes does make me more likely to read his biography to find out his backstory!
I'm a fan of Frank Herbert and read a good amount of his books. Of course, the Dune series is the stand-out. This book was average to me. You can't have a winner every time.
Short and.......ODD.
I really enjoyed this. Short but sweet. Interesting ideas. Thought provoking in terms of genetic engineering.
Hard to follow, in fact I am not sure what happened. May have to re-listen. Scott Brick was great.
Meh. Frank Herbert is a phenomenal writer, but this book was underwhelming. Great premise and build up but the ending was lame.
I liked this book, even though there were a lot of elements and themes that I recognised from the Dune books. I thought the characters were a little bland (but maybe that's just because reading this made me miss the Atreides family), and there were too much medical terms that I think very few readers understand. So overall not the best Frank Herbert book I have read but still very entertaining.
or measure." The principle of indeterminacy in the words of gene surgeon Potter, who appears in the first pages of the book.The plot is set in a distant future, where natural selection has been overruled by the capacity of humans themselves to alter genes and to determine their offspring.
It features many themes and ideas common in other Herbert novels: clandestine political plotting, conspiracies, code languages, machine-human hybrids, and genetic manipulation.
I loved the ideas this book explores, though perhaps akin to Dune, the scope of the story is a hugely ambitious one.
Unlike Dune, however, this novel is relatively short, and I felt that there were a huge number of plot points and relationships that had to be drawn together in somewhat contrived ways.
Herbert's shorter novels often feel like initial explorations of ideas (free will vs.
determinism, genetic control, immortality, conscience-altering drugs) that he will later address in greater detail in the Dune series."The Eyes of Heisenberg" tells the story of several unlikely (and in a few cases, unwilling) rebels trying to survive in a dystopian world ruled by effectively-immortal supermen (called Optimen).
The characters are not nearly as memorable or as developed as the cast of the Dune series, but that may be more a factor of the novel's short length than any serious writing flaw on Herbert's part.
Started last night.
Notes...- 3 typos so far- Suggestions of various other books/movies...
"Children of Men", "Zardoz" and "Dune"(obviously).- An interesting book - sort-of.
Like he lost interest at some point.
What would it be like to live for 50,000 years?
Certainly one of the points of the book is to call into question the human obsession with living as long as possible.
To take control of the genome and start "controlling" reproduction and evolution is to become god-like indeed.
Notes...- 4 typos total(minimum)...- Philosophically/scientifically/spiritually a bit beyond my simple tastes.
I liked Dune better.
Better storytelling mixed with the scientific-mystical stuff...
There was a time when if you had asked me, "who is your favorite science fiction author?" I would have answered : "Frank Herbert." That was because I was reading Herbert's DUNE series.
But there were other books by Herbert which I did not get to, such as this one, "The Eyes of Heisenberg", published in 1966, concerning a future society in which humans are bioengineered.
I only give it *** because I don't think the story--and the future world-- was developed very well.
The characters (whom I could not keep straight!) were not developed in this story anywhere nearly as well as the characters in the DUNE series.
Herbert remains one of my favorite authors.
