https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/192377.Rue_des_boutiques_obscures
When his boss retires and moves to the city of Nice, Guy decides that maybe it is time to investigate his own past.
After experiencing some of the angst of watching my friends search and sometimes find their past I went on this journey with Guy with some trepidation.
After all, amnesia doesn’t just happen, lifting the veil, more than likely, is exposing yourself to trauma.The other hazard is that Guy is risking throwing away ten years of a life that could be completely superseded by an old identity.
The theme of Modiano’s work deals with the loss of memory, the loss of self, and hidden identities.
Rue des Boutiques Obscures (literally 'the Street of dark shops') is the name of a street in Rome (La Via delle Botteghe Oscure) where one of the characters lived, and where Modiano himself lived for some time.Guy Roland is an amnesiac detective who lost his memory ten years before the beginning of the story, which opens in 1965.
When his employer, Hutte, retires and closes the detective agency where he has worked for eight years, Roland embarks on a search for his own identity.
او به تدریج به نام واقعی خود پی میبرد، و کم کم خاطراتی از بگذشته در ذهنش زنده میشود.
Could my identity be a broken prism of distorting mirrors?Engrossed in this magnificent novel, I certainly would forget myself.Under the guise of a detective story with a ‘noir’ tint, Modiano has span an investigation into the nature of identity that is as beguiling as a lyrical song.
It is as if the addresses had kept the singularities of the numerous personalities who have resided there, and those streets and numbers become the persons.Similarly with photographs.
But no, the baffling evocation continued.Modiano’s investigation of the nature of the self is more perplexing and entails a deeper suspense than a common thriller.
Through a sleek noir dredging up the shadowy streets of Nazi occupied France, Modiano muses on identity in a world that continuously mutates into the future and finds our only evidence of existence diminishing with the deaths of those who once knew us as another generation passes into silence.‘Is it really my life I’m tracking down?
While the longings for the Paris of one’s past are examined in much more depths and heart in Modiano’s Suspended Sentences: Three Novellas, the subtleties and elegance found here is exquisite.Missing Person is a rather straightforward novel, driven mostly by plot and dialogue that embody the spirit of film-noir at its finest.
Delving into the past is obviously a good place to start, with a little help of course, slowly picking up pieces of information here and there that begins to bring back small moments and details that unravel a life forgotten.
Modiano uses the irony of the detective searching for his old life, and I have to say, I was completely enthralled the whole way through, only to be slightly hampered by the abrupt open-ended last chapter.
With this end in view meets many people, frequently emigrants and stateless persons, and gathering vague hints, following blurred instructions tries to solve the riddle of own past.
From shards and snatches, elusive memoirs, old photos, addresses and phone numbers attempts to build himself anew and reclaim lost identity.
One track leads him to another; sometimes Guy comes close the truth, another time track appears to be dead end.
In foggy weather mirroring Guy’s state of mind, in the maze of dark alleys which he traverses looking for own footprints, in strange apartments, in dangerously looking staircases, in carefully locking doors, in boxes with jetsam, old photographs and letters.
I did not dare tell Hutte, but I felt that ‘the beach man’ was myself.”We all ask ourselves ‘what is the purpose of my life?’ ‘why am I here?’ We ask these questions to bring some sense of order in this business of living.
This novel about the self tells us that oftentimes we are too busy looking for our identity in the past, asking too many questions about our purpose in the future, that the result is a life of asking and searching instead of one of living.
It's a mystery novel with the setting in Paris during, I believe, the 1970's, although I don't recall that being stated.
His memory from his earlier life is gone, Guy Roland isn't even his real name.
The blank space in his memory is from the 1940's, the Paris Occupation by the German's.
Roland has a few clues, names of people who may know something, and as he meets each one he gathers more information, pictures, letters, things that lead him further along.The hook in this novel comes early enough so it's easy to stay engaged.
This novel won the prestigious Prix Goncourt in 1978.
It’s the story about a detective who loses his memory; and, for his final case he sets out to uncover his true identity.
So, I felt a sense of heightening tension when he gradually uncovers fragments of his mysterious past history.
As he follows leads going back to the 1940's Nazi Occupation of Paris (which may or may not be clues to his past) the novel becomes less a thriller and more a probing self-reflection on identity, memory and the passing of life.
Each place is understated, and there is only a blank observation of every place as the narrator tries to sort himself out.I had a false impression of this novel, after I'd read that Modiano was a student of Queneau, who I remember for his literary gymnastics in Exercises in Style.
But if Queneau prefers flashy demonstrations of literary style, Modiano is slower and more temperate.
At the end, I barely felt as though any progression had taken place at all - is this due to some deliberate obtuseness of the style, or Modiano's own comment on the frailty of human memory?I suspect there is something curious in here, but I keep feeling that I've overlooked it.
I was waiting for the rain to stop, a downpour that had started the moment Hutte left me." That switch, from a general statement, I am nothing, to a particular occasion, on the terrace of a café, but a generic, unnamed café, not a specific one (and how can a silhouette be pale?); the switch to the past tense, but not the historic past, no, the imperfect, a tense used for regular re-occurring events, or for the unfinished...; and then the intentionality of the weather, rain that can seemingly wait until the moment Hutte leaves to start its symbolic downpour, all these subtly handled modulations combine to take this narrative out of the mundane, the banal, the realistic world, into some dream-like place.
پایانشو خیلی دوست داشتم. همچنین تعهّد نویسنده در مورد شهری نوشتن. ترسیم چهرهی پاریس، آدمای پاریسی و جریانات پاریسی و نتیجتاً، یهداستان پاریسی. داستان، تعلیق خیلی خوبی داشت؛ هم بهلحاظ فرمی و ساختاری، هم محتوایی. با اینکه من کلاً با شخصیّتها خیلی ارتباط برقرار نمیکردم و تا بهحال دو کتابی که از پاتریک مودیانو خوندم، همیناندازه شبحگونه و مبهم بودن.. ولی، اینابهام ضربه نمیزنه و میتونیم بگیم شاید سبکشه حتّی. قسمت مهمّش این بود که با وجود اینهمه گره و مسئله و سرنخهای مختلف، نویسنده رشتهی داستانو گم نمی
پایانشو خیلی دوست داشتم.
همچنین تعهّد نویسنده در مورد شهری نوشتن.
داستان، تعلیق خیلی خوبی داشت؛ هم به‌لحاظ فرمی و ساختاری، هم محتوایی.
ولی، این‌ابهام ضربه نمی‌زنه و می‌تونیم بگیم شاید سبکشه حتّی.
قسمت مهمّش این بود که با وجود این‌همه گره و مسئله و سرنخ‌های مختلف، نویسنده رشته‌ی داستانو گم نمی‌کرد!
این خیلی مهمّه؛ بخصوص تو چنین داستانایی که اون‌قــد نشونه‌ها زیادن که ممکنه خود ِ نویسنده هم بعد یه‌مدّت، نتونه اون‌جور که باید و شاید، از خلالشون داستانو پیش ببره و بهم ربطشون بده.
بهشون بگیم داستانای زنجیره‌‍ای؛ گرچه اسم بهتری می‌طلبن.
This guy just won the Nobel prize. Who gives a shit, right? But then there's this: "He studied at Lycee Henri-IV in Paris, where his geometry teacher was Raymond Queneau, a writer who was to prove a major influence." -- You just said the magic word -- QUENEAU! So my interest has piqued...
Do you know how many books with the word "missing" in the title there are listed here at Goodreads?
And that is as far as I am going to go with my review, because I want to turn that job over to someone else.I want to thank my Goodreads good friend Carol for leading me to this book, one that I would never have discovered without her help, and one that I thoroughly enjoyed -- yuuugely.
So, I'm going to send you to the fine review that sparked my interest and led me to this book.
But then that is perhaps what a life amounts to."Missing Person is a seventies existential mystery about the search for identity, which is always reconstructive, flawed, partial, in part a fiction.
As I read this book, I recall Ilse’s review on her evocation of Paris, I recall my own visits to Paris, of people I met there, my own scraps of the past.
Who am I?”)A low Goodreads rating maybe points to the fact that nothing much happens in this short book except a man searching for clues, with the mystery never ultimately solved.
The story is quite simple: in the mid-sixties, a man who has suffered from amnesia tries to find out about his past, and goes on a quest that will lead him to meet different people who may, or may not, know about who he was.
One of the most fascinating aspect of the novel is that all that is linked to the past takes place in the thirties and forties, when France went through some tumultuous events, but Modiano never describes those events, although they do play a key role in what happens to the hero: anyone who doesn't know much about France history will miss a lot of what makes this novel so poignant and beautiful.
Hutte, for instance, used to quote the case of a fellow he called "the beach man." This man had spent forty years of his life on beaches or by the sides of swimming pools, chatting pleasantly with summer visitors and rich idlers.
Likewise I found myself this morning in a darkened swirl of insomnia and read the final 100 pages of Missing Person.
I looked at where this afternoon I'll put the Christmas tree I buy at the supermarket.
I looked out the window and the neighbors' seasonal lights.
Life is often hazy and ill-defined.
I'd recommend Missing Person as a premium point of departure for this strange author.
Dove mio padre, ridacchiando, mi disse "Erano soliti mangiare bambini" (come se non mi fossi accorta che mi stava prendendo in giro).Detti per buona la loro versione ma segretamente continuai a credere nella mia, sicurissima che loro non fossero a conoscenza di tali botteghe perchè "babbani".Al quinto anno di liceo stavo studiando Bassani e mi reimbatto di nuovo in questo nome e in questa via, il che ha riportato a galla questo ricordo da tempo archiviato d' infanzia.
A strong 4 and half stars.Allow me to make some notes as way of introduction. 1. I made the mistake of starting this book during one of my self-imposed “sanity-preserving-reading-breaks” yesterday afternoon while at the office. That break turned into an “I-have-to-leave-in-an-hour-and-a-half-and-I-must-finish-this-book-before-I-do-so-break”. So make sure you have time before starting this. It’s massively enjoyable – I haven’t even touched on it being good yet – and it is compulsively readable.2.
I actually passed on this book on two different occasions when out used shopping before finally breaking down and buying it the third time (all the Half Price Books around me received shipments of publisher remainders of these, so I kept seeing stacks of it).
In this, Modiano reminds me a great deal of his fellow Nobel-laureate, J.M. Coetzee, in that he writes immensely readable prose – it’s neither florid nor unnecessarily verbose – that still manages to delve into weighty issues with adept aplomb.
The writing is special: unique in style, often lyrical and philosophical in tone.
What makes the style unique is the mix of concrete facts (addresses, dates, telephone numbers) and diffuse, atmospheric and philosophical musings.
The writing pulls you in with its lyricism and baffles, confuses and keeps you searching for understanding.
It is in fact the writing that is the best attribute of the book.This is the story of an amnesiac searching for his past.
Also, I found the book to be overly confusing.The audiobook is narrated by Bronson Pinchot; the translation by Daniel Weissbort.
According to our stated purpose to read only Nobel Prize winning authors or Pulitzer Prize winning novels, my Literary Snobs reading group of two members chose Missing Person, said by several reviewers to be one of his best novels.The author was born in July, 1945, less than a year after the liberation of Paris from German occupation.
The Occupation became Modiano's obsession and most of his books are concerned with it.Missing Person is an atmospheric mystery about Guy Roland, a man who lost his memory during the war and is searching to find out who he was.
"L.A. Noire", detective story (noir video game) "Missing Person." Atmospheric. Suspenseful. Delicately drawn film noir scenes unfold in a nuanced search. For self. For memories. For a life lived. In a past lost in a world lost in a city lost in a time lost. Lives lost. Sometimes found.Black & white mist gradually emerge into the yellow smoky fog of memory... ...painting a dusty colored 'remembrance of things past'. Or does it...ever?Paris, Peter Cornelius, photograph
Lần đầu đọc là bản cũ, giấy siêu xấu của NXB Văn Học, 4 năm sau đọc lại bản mới của Nhã Nam.Cảm giác
The past, for the protagonist of  Patrick Modiano’s novel  Missing Person, is the period of the German occupation of Paris prior to and during World War II.
As the novel opens, Roland’s boss retires and closes the agency, and Roland begins to investigate himself, to search for his identity.
Missing Person is an early novel (1978), but it embodies the themes for which Modiano has become known—the power of the past and the search for identity.
The prose in this short novel (under 200 pages), while exploring these themes, exhibits Modiano's beautifully crafted style and his haunting, melancholy tone.
Besides winning the hopelessly political award from the Nobel Committee for Anyone-but-the-Capitalist-American-Bastards Literature, Patrick Modiano is also the recipient of the Prix Goncourt Prize, and is apparently a very popular writer in France.
For me, memories, true memories which I have forgotten and am remembering in a truly fresh fashion, do not come to me in detailed vistas, full episodes, nor certainly not in a linear fashion, but rather visual glimpses which seem to me only playful gestures, déjà vu.In Missing Person, Guy Roland suffers from amnesia, and hopes to piece together his past from small clues.
u buồn và trầm tư. Cuộc đi tìm cái identity của một người mất trí nhớ. Hoài niệm về hạnh phúc đã đánh mất hay đó chỉ là sự tưởng tượng, là sự tái tạo các ký ức vui vẻ để quên đi những đau buồn đầy nhức nhối. Cuốn sách đặt bối cảnh nước Pháp sau cơn ác mộng khủng khiếp thế chiến thứ Hai.Có gì đó gợi nhớ tới Paul Auster sau này trong The Oracle Night hay New York Trilogy. Những cái tên và những mặt người...
This is fabulous. Noirish..., literary..., with real depths....
Opet jedna od onih knjiga kod kojih se usredotočiš na stil pripovijedanja, a sadržaj polako prolazi, mimo tebe...
Although published in 1978, Patrick Modiano’s Missing Person recalls the World War Two era during which statelessness burdened many Europeans caught in shifting borders, marching armies, forced displacement, and the horrors of concentration and displaced persons camps.
But in Missing Person, Modiano riffs on personal nostalgia about faded and forgotten memories, which morph here into the horror of total identity loss.
Modiano portrays the depth of Guy’s loss so effectively that it disorients not only Guy but Modiano’s readers as well.I’m rating Missing Person 4.5 on a scale of only Modiano novels, and rounding it up to 5.
Great writing!!! The author used vivid descriptions of people, places, and things. One got the feeling of being present in the story.
کتاب با این جمله شروع میشه:من هیچم. هیچ، جز نیم رخ رنگ پریده ای در تراس یک کافه ی غروب زده.و با این جمله تموم میشه:آیا حیات ما نیز به همان سرعت این اندوه کودکانه در دل غروب ناپدید میشود؟و تمام کتاب بین همین دو جمله میگذره.
The occupation that took place in France during the war years, was (or is) something that people never got over, and for good reason.
20th century French literature has many novels and books about this dark time in France.
Here, our hero (of sorts) has a photograph or two, where he interviews numerous people who may have known him or what ever happened to him.
This novel is a bit like an espionage novel mixed in with Alain Robbe-Grillet's fiction.
It's toxic combination, but still, I found the novel a bit understated for my taste.
Still, I will go onward and check out his other novels.


..”Ho scelto questa frase perché mi sembra riassuma il senso del romanzo di Modiano: i ricordi del passato, sbrindellati come stracci sfilacciati, niente altro che episodi sporadici fatti di nomi, di colori e rumori vengono assemblati dal protagonista del libro, un detective che ha perso la memoria, finchè, alla fine, assumono le sembianze di una esistenza.
Per Modiano la memoria è strumento per creare una esistenza dal nulla, senza però arrivare a nulla: non vi sono sentimenti, emozioni o sensazioni che risuscitano, ci sono soltanto spezzoni, immagini in dissolvenza e sfocate, persone e cose che di spalle, nella foschia, scompaiono in silenzio.
Hutte was always saying that, in the end, we were all "beach men" and that "the sand" -- I am quoting his own words -- "keeps the traces of our footsteps only a few moments."There is an old quote to the effect that "the past is a foreign country." Not only that, but Modiano shows that one's own past is also a foreign country full of insubstantial characters, places, and events.
There is even one real historical character thrown in for good measure -- Porfirio Rubirosa, a real-life Dominican diplomat and international playboy.Unlike detective novels which attempt at a crystalline resolution that snaps into place like one of Sherlock Holmes's wilder solutions, Missing Person has all the passion of a search into one's own past without any of the false certainties.
I warmed up to this a little towards the middle as I thought the clarity of the prose was evolving in step with the narrator's investigations, I don't think that's actually the case here though.
I don't often read books that I like this little, and rarely ever do I finish them.I'm struggling to find the poetry in all of this.
A little fog, some bridges, old photographs, and boxes full of trinkets, your typical noir touch points, but nothing really that soared.
Un uomo ha perso la memoria e la sua identità, e va alla ricerca del suo passato.
Perché, forse, questa è la vita: brevi attimi sospesi, dei fermi immagine, su cui costruire un prima e un dopo....tutto mi è parso molto caotico, spezzettato...
E proprio come un sogno particolarmente "caotico e spezzettato" ho trovato questo romanzo della prima produzione.
Mi chiedo se mi sarei appassionata così tanto a Modiano se lo avessi incontrato per la prima volta in questo modo; se l'avrei cercato a respiro pieno e con grande soddisfazione come mi è capitato in questi ultimi anni.
No le veo material de Nobel, de verdad que no. Me dejó indiferente. Y no sé qué cosa puede ser peor en materia de literatura...
The cynic in me thinks that the writer of the popular work read the original in translation, got inspired by the main idea and rewrote it in English in an attractive way and cornered all the fame and fortune.
It expressed the very essence of this apartment.‘Missing Person’ is not just the search of the main character for his past, but it is also a meditation on identity and what makes a person who he or she is.
It is a fascinating philosophical question that is explored in the book through the search of Guy Roland for his past.
Việc đọc này cũng như khi nghe nhạc rap, mới đầu thấy rất khó nghe, nhưng cố nghe thế là nghe được, bây giờ thì thấy hay...Đọc cả quyển có lẽ nhớ nhất câu cuối tác giả ví cuộc đời mình cũng thoảng qua như nỗi hờn giận của cô bé, trong một chiều hoàng hôn, bị mẹ bắt về nhà không cho chơi tiếp.
Lúc đọc đến đấy thấy buồn, cuộc đời con người sao mà nó lại hời hợt thế, chẳng ghi dấu lại ở đâu cả nếu tất cả những người quen chết hết thì có nghĩa mọi dấu vết đều biến mất, bản thân mình cứ như chưa từng sinh ra, chưa từng hít thở không khí trên trái đất này.
The point seemed to be all of the figures drifting in and out of the narrator's search, with their little stories, and their detailed and specific Paris locations.But then, of course, a mystery is revealed, though also not revealed, or not in detail, but it still doesn't feel like a mystery novel.Overall I think that the pervasive feeling is one of sadness and smallness: to have lived so long, interacted with so many people, and made so little impression is tremendously sad.
As for the mystery itself, I found myself thinking that many people must have suffered fates like this one, also nearly anonymous, unremembered, small local tragedies.
از باغچه ها گذشتیم و وارد خیابان نیویورک شدیم. آنجا زیر درختان سن، احساس رویایی ناخوشایند به من دست داده بود. من که زندگی را پشت سر نهاده میدیدم، هیچ بودم و جز بازگشتهای غوطهور در هوای نمور شنبه شبی پاریسی، چیز دیگری نبودم، چرا باید چنین نیاز حتمی به بازسازی رشتههای گسستهی زندگیام داشته و چنین مشتاقانه به دنبال گذرگاههای بسته از سالهای دراز پیشتر خود باشم؟ آن هم واقعیت قدم زدن شانه به شانه با این مرد تپل و سبیلویی که به زحمت باور داشتم!از متن کتاب
از باغچه ها گذشتیم و وارد خیابان نیویورک شدیم. آنجا زیر درختان سن، احساس رویایی ناخوشایند به من دست داده بود. من که زندگی را پشت سر نهاده می‌دیدم، هیچ بودم و جز بازگشته‌ای غوطه‌ور در هوای نمور شنبه شبی پاریسی، چیز دیگری نبودم، چرا باید چنین نیاز حتمی به بازسازی رشته‌های گسسته‌ی زندگی‌ام داشته و چنین مشتاقانه به دنبال گذرگاه‌های بسته از سال‌های دراز پیش‌تر خود باشم؟ آن هم واقعیت قدم زدن شانه به شانه با این مرد تپل و سبیلویی که به زحمت باور داشتم!از متن کتاب
شخص فقد الذاكرةـ، تربى عند شخصية أخرى ساعدته على تخطي أزمته العقلية وعمل معه، ثم قرر أن يبحث عن هويته الحقيقية بعد سنوات من الضياع.
هذه الشخصية في رحلتها للبحث عن هويتها الحقيقية تسير دون بينة، تحمل دلائل بسيطة تقود إلى مناطق وشوارع وشقق ومنازل وطرق.
كل هذه تحمل ذكريات عميقة لا تزول.
لكن أين هي الذاكرة لرجل يبحث عن ذاكرة؟ عن ماضي لا يُعرف؟ ما إن يتلبس هوية جديدة ويجدها مناسبة له، حتى يفقد أساس وجوده وينتقل إلى هوية أخرى، هوية بعد هوية، ثم ماذا؟ باتريك موديانو لا يبحث عن حل لأزمة بطله.
not my favourite type!
