https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/5472.Animal_Farm_1984
Започнах я с доза скептицизъм, тъй като очаквах да не ми хареса, точно защото е хвалена отвсякъде, а аз съм се научила да имам едно наум за такива книги.
Авторът ги използва като инструменти, като една дума на едно място може да бъде чук, а на друго - фина отверка, която леко затяга вече достатъчно стегнатия железен обръч около главата ти.
Може би защото авторът не ни остави нищо, унищожи всякаква надежда.
Ако беше запазил някаква малка човешка победа,нещо мининиатюрно, като малко чисто квадратче върху изцапаната покривка, крайният резултат на въздействие, поне за мен, щеше да бъде още по-чудовищен.Ако искате да научите колко прави 2+2, какво е Бог и какво има в стая 101, непременно почетете книгата.
These are Orwell's most famous books. Both are dystopian tales of the dangers of a totalitarian government.Similarities between the books:The government knows best.The intelligentsia seize power.The naive proletariat are oppressed and kept ignorant.The government bends or breaks its own rules for its benefit.The government uses propaganda to keep the proletariat in check.The government rewrites history to prove that it's correct and that life is better with the government than it was before the government's rise to power.Both books have pessimistic endings.Here are my reviews of the books:Animal Farm1984The SparkNotes for both books are very good: Animal Farm and 1984.
I do know you're keeping me down with your accepted level of mediocrity."Macbeth was tired after a long day of omitting the thous and thys from the Dougie Howser's Dictionary.
His wife reported his mouth breathing coworker and he was a shoo-in for the promotion of updating each and every one of Shakespeare's plays into a high school comedy for the ABC Big Brother telescreens.
Macbeth did not want to argue with his wife.
They were helpless against it."If no one knows who Big Brother really is then why can't it be you?""You is out of the dictionary.
I read Animal Farm once a decade. It is a quick read that constantly reminds me that I need to keep the blinders off and not take everything for granted. I have a strange desire for bacon for some reason.
با سم بزرگش روي خاك الف ب پ ت را رسم ميكرد و بعد با گوش خوابيده به حروف خيره ميشد،گاهي كاكلش را تكان ميداد و با تمام نيرو سعي ميكرد حروف بعدي را به خاطر آورد ولي توفيق نمييافت.چند بار ج چ ح خ را هم ياد گرفت ولي هربار كه آنها را بهياد داشت متوجه ميشد كه الف و ب و پ و ت را فراموش كرده است.بالاخره مصمم شد كه به همان چهار حرف اول قناعت كند.....
ساير حيوانات مزرعه از حرف الف جلوتر نرفتند و همچنين كاشف به عمل آمد كه حيوانات كودن،مانند گوسفندان،مرغان و اردكها قادر به از بر كردن هفت فرمان نيستند....قلعه ی حیوانات رو کاش تمام آدمهایی که توی هر جامعه ای زندگی میکنند، بخونند.....
I have finished only Animal Farm, and this book is most certainly a single chapter of good, gracious continental life.
It makes you feel the need to eat meat, but really cut it up while eating, and thinking beforehand at what you're mincing, why you are causing the treaty of vegetarianism to escape you.I posit that it is not a humble, simple book, but one riveted between the lines of colonialism, and humanity blazing with animalism.
I did look at Animal Farm today, and it did help me in discerning the feelings more of people, and the effects of time on each of us animals(humans).
1984 and Animal Farm by George Orwell are dystopian novels that depict the horrors of a totalitarian state. Animal Farm, unlike 1984, represented an Orwellian state in more abstract terms than 1984. It showed all the animals on a farm under the rule of a single pig. 1984 shows a man who was at odds with the utter conformity of the totalitarian society that he was part of.
I believe they are some of the most thought provoking stories ever written and they're also fun to read, which sometimes isn't the case for a lot of the literary books people tell you that you should read.I recall once when my friend Winston (I actually have a friend named Winston, I'm not referring to the protagonist of 1984,) had to read 1984 and was kind of down about it because he heard it was just political satire or something and he presumed it would be dull.
It is difficult to rate a novel which is incomplete. This version if Animal Farm and 1984 does not contain the full versions of either book. Animal Farm has only the first 10 chapters and ends abruptly on page 86. 1984 has only the first 3 sections and repeats itself.This is more a sampling of Orwells Classics rather than a complete read. If you want to read the full novel. Don't purchase this one
‘There are no replacements for George Orwell, just as there are no replacements for a Bernard Shaw or a Mark Twain…he pricked, provoked and badgered lazy minds, delighted those who enjoyed watching an original intelligence at work.’Time
برای بار چندم خوندمش و چقدر حرص خوردم... یاد خوکهای وطنی افتادم که با چه وعده وعیدهایی سر کار میان و بعد ، خیلی ظالمانه تر از خوکهای قبلی کار میکنن.... و از همه اینها رنج آورتر تحریف تاریخ و ارائه آمار و ارقام من دراوردیشونه که ادم حتی خودش هم باورش میشه نکنه اوضاع واقعا بهتر داره میشه و من دارم اشتباه فکر میکنم!!!!!
4,5 звезди за "1984" и 2,5 за "Фермата на животните"Определено ще прочета "1984" поне още няколко пъти!
A fantastic allegory to the horrific Russian revolution and the communist party, one that makes you want to open up real history book to remind yourself that yes, this actually happened not to imagery sheep and hens and horses and farm animals in a little work of fiction, this happened to millions of people and this is still happening.Well, I am so SO so glad I read this book even though it was uncomfortable, disturbing and scary - not half as scary as 1984 but scary enough to never forget.
Two of my favorite books! Meant to re-read 1984 with the student book club, but it got away from me. 1984 was one of my favorite required high school reads my senior year, and I LOVE to teach Animal Farm!
داستان فوق العاده، شخصیت پردازی عالی یک داستان کوتاه اما زندههزاربار هم خونده بشه کمه
I do not know anything about the Russian Revolution which this book is supposed to be based on nor am I well versed with the aristocratic/ political regimes of the world.The title is so misleading, could have fooled me into thinking that this was a book about a farm where animals can talk and live together harmoniously...
But I have read 1984 so I know that isn't George Orwell's genre.This book is about humans and their behavior portrayed by animals which does not in anyway reduce the relevance of what it tries to tell us.
It must be at least 20 years since I last read these two dystopian classics.
Although, I'm certain my opinion of them wouldn't have diminished one iota if I were to read them today.
In fact, I'm sure they would, even now, contain much relevance to the current political scene.The ending of Animal Farm is particularly prescient: the abandoned and betrayed animals looking in through the windows of the farmhouse and being unable to tell the pigs from the humans.
This from a novel written 10 years before the discovery of DNA, which revealed that, of all the farmyard animals, the most closely related to humans were.....the porkers.
Animal Farm is a lighthearted fable for a serious subject.-----------------------------------------------------------Under Big Brother’s omniscient eyes, Winston Smith tried to ignite his only freedom, the freedom to believe in “obvious” truths, but by the novel’s end, at the café Winston was unsure what two plus two would make, a sign that O’Brien had successfully reintegrated a “lost soul” and Winston had become like his friends and neighbors, unable to question and thus unable to revolt.
But Oceana, like other totalitarian regimes, also turned to the indispensable tool, fear, to chisel its citizens’ minds and hearts to its agenda’s shape and form.
Orwellian has been introduced into the English language for good reason.
1984: this was worse than watching a horror movie (which I hate) because while in a movie I'm always aware it's fiction, the book kept on confusing me making me feel I was actually going through a factual piece.
The biggest impressions happened while reading "The Book" in part 2 and feeling like I was reading history of the world.
You realize we live in a scary and predictable world when it can get mixed up with a fiction book from more than half a century ago.P.S. What a wonderful analysis of the language he makes in the Appendix describing Newspeak.
Its quite unique how he portrays his characters as animals. And its often hilarious. But once again...hes a socialist...this is what he wants...why does he trash it here but fight for it in real life? But I have to thank him just like I did for 1984 for making a great book explaining the pitfalls of socialism. Overall:Storyline is funny yet serious.You hate pigs more after your done.You realize that George Orwell is a hypocrite.Read it and feel great we aren't to this point...yet.
Animal Farm is reviewed here: https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...1984 - a terrifying look into the future that seems more possible with each passing day. The writing still stands up, and though 1984 is long in the past, and we still aren't quite living the the horrid oligarchy of Engsoc - we have traveled too far down the path for comfort. I'm pinning my hopes on the proletariat, and hoping I'm not wrong.
I have finally read 1984. It just took me a few years to pick it up. My rating is leaning more toward 3.5 more than 3. I enjoyed the book. I really don't know how to express my feelings about it yet. But I did enjoyed it.
این کتابو به همه پیشنهاد میکنم بخونن
In some ways it feels more like an exaggeration of some tangible reality than science fiction.Written more than half a century ago, I wonder what Orwell would've thought if he had lived to see the advances in technology that make his vision not only more plausible but more probable.I happened to start reading The Believing Brain by Michael Shermer as I was finishing up this book, and was amazed by Orwell's discussion and commentary on belief and belief systems and how perfectly his musings fit with advances in the neuroscience of today.I would personally recommend this book to everyone.
Gripping story, memorable characters, poignant subject manner, all delivered with a chillingly prophetic narrative that demands your thought and reflection.
"Animal Farm" tells the simple and tragic story of what happens when the oppressed farm animals rebel, drive out Mr. Jones, the farmer, and attempt to rule the farm themselves, on an equal basis.
Orwell's mastery lies in his presentation of the horrors of totalitarian regimes, and his analysis of communism put to practice, through satire and simple story-telling.
You understand the ruthless ruling policy of the pigs when then send sick Horse ( most hardworking and ever loyal to Napoleon ) to slaughterhouse , making an excuse of sending him to hospital for his betterment .
Շատ լավն էր դրսից նայողի համար, բայց մակերեսային՝ ներսից տեսնողի համար, իմ կարծիքով:
Animal FarmGreat dramatization of the very heavy idea that "Absolute power is likely to Corrupt Absolutely!"I have read this book multiple times and would read it again because every time I read I gain new insights into human nature and the civilization/government game.What’s more, the novel ends with a quote so true that it still gives me chills.“The creatures outside looked from pig to man, and from man to pig, and from pig to man again: but already it was impossible to say which was which”.I also recommend going through - http://study.com/academy/lesson/alleg...
It fails both as fantasy and prophesy.Must read books !
Communism doesn't work because the people in power want power for themselves. Shallow characterization, I.e. None of the characters are compelling. It is a parable meant to teach you a life lesson about the dangers of socialism. I'm sure grade schoolers can read without rolling their eyes too much. For me it was too heavy-handed. And I'm pretty sure that pigs are not smarter than dogs by that much.
Awesome
