https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1129911.The_Open_Society_and_Its_Enemies_Volume_One
به حال افلاطون رقت میآرم که مجبور شد به جای تاسیسِ نخستین حکومتِ تمامتوتالیترِ فلسفی، به تاسیسِ نخستین کرسیِ تدریس فلسفه قناعت کنه.
به حال افلاطون رقت می‌آرم که مجبور شد به جای تاسیسِ نخستین حکومتِ تمام‌توتالیترِ فلسفی، به تاسیسِ نخستین کرسیِ تدریس فلسفه قناعت کنه.
Popper's argument is that Plato, in the Republic, says that forms of government which are directed and led by an educated minority of philosopher-kings, and in which there is no class stuggle because each caste, including that of slaves, knows it's place.
Likewise, does it not seem that Soros' bullying to get western governments to "save the ruble" (which would have put money in his pocket) is just a philosophical dodge to make him ever-richer, and thus more powerful, in this society where economic might is the apparent source of political power?Popper's most interesting but least developed point is one of the "paradox of democracy"- that given the choice to vote, people are free to vote in a tyrant.
Get this wonderful book where an outstanding author does the hard work for you, then lays out the gist of Plato's thoughts in clear, easily and quickly readable prose.Behind our societies lie influential ideas, philosophies about the best way to organize humanity.
In a few cases, the general public might be able to associate a person with an idea - Marx and communism, Jefferson and American democracy - but for the most part the philosophers whose thoughts deeply impact the way things are remain unknown.
كما يصوغ الفكر الاجتماعي معتمداً على تقانة الاستقراء و التحليل، و التركيب والتجريب .ينتقد بوبر علم الاجتماع الوصفي عند أفلاطون، الذي يعتبره واضع أول النظم الاجتماعية الطوباوية في كتابه ( الجمهورية ) والمنظر الفلسفي الأول للشمولية قبل هيغل وماركس بتناول نظرياته/ فلسفته الاجتماعية والسياسية، ورؤيته للمجتمع والدولة ووضع / موقع الفرد منها، وما يؤسس لتحقيق الحرية والمساواة ومدى تحققها ( نظرية الصور أو المثل - والمدينة الفاضلة) .
An incredible work on Plato yielding one of the most important interpretations of his philosophy of all time.
Plato, necessarily was an enemy of democracy due to his best friend and tutor Socrates having been democratically elected to be executed.
He fought through his philosophy to restrain such a system from existing and established classes which are akin to the Feudal System of the Middle Ages.
He was certainly an enemy of the Open Society, who believed it just to have classes remain where they are.
Popper's anti-Platonist tract is slander from start to finish; the book that inspired Ronald Levinson to write a 645 page rebuttal (In Defense of Plato).
In much of Popper's writing he is a fitting follower of Sextus Empiricus, but here, in a perhaps-understandable post-Hitler and post-Stalin rage, he descends to dogmatic fiction.
For example, on the very first page Popper counter-poses two quotes, one from Pericles that "Although only a few may originate a policy, we are all able to judge it" to a passage from the Republic that says ".
The best edition is this one, that keeps more detailed analysis in wee tiny print in appendices - but be sure to get the full Monty as much of this is fascinating.People have tried to defend Plato against Popper's savage attack on his political theories, but it's pretty hard really.
Plato was politically very conservative, a defender of autocracy and worse in real life and a theorist of its defence.
Popper made it clear that outside the arena of politics he admired Plato, and so do I.
ينتقد كارل بوبر في كتابه " المجتمع المفتوح وأعداؤه - الجزء الأول ) نظريات الفيلسوف أفلاطون السياسية ، حيث يوضح موقف أفلاطون من الديموقراطية .. ورغم نقد أفلاطون للإستبداد السياسي إلا أن بوبر وصف برنامج أفلاطون السياسي بالأستبداد الخالص .. ويقول بوبر " غالباً ما تدعي النزعة الإستبدادية حبها للحرية " الحقة " ، وثناء أفلاطون على الحرية كمقابل للطغيان يحمل تماماً نبرة ذلك الحب المزعوم " ..
Straightforward and coldly logical criticism of sociological historicism as seen first in Plato, and later by Hegel and Marx (Vol. 2). Lucid and thorough.
Although I am definitely not any sort of historian or authority on the nature of Plato's philosophy, Popper is convincing enough to make me really question the "idealization" of Plato he so often mentions.My criticisms are not of Popper's treatment of Plato, but of some of his other contentions on the subject of individualism/collectivism and ethics.
It's always appreciated when an author explains him or herself as thoroughly as possible, but I think Popper could have done a much better job at incorporating the ideas in the notes directly into the text.
Plato was the first in line to openly and intellectually declare war on the individual, his poisonous ideas in time fueled many dangerous ideologies including mainstream religions and K.Popper, being the knight defender of egalitarianism, freedom of thought and expression and individualism shows us, NO reveals us how Plato, so called hero of philosophy was actually a monster, who stole from Socrates and bastardized what he learned eventually turning them into weapons against people like Socrates, the gifted individuals.
Popper is a pretty persuasive writer, a real scholar. I was a bit skeptical when I started this book, since I had always held Plato in pretty high esteem. But Popper brought together a lot of what I already knew in a way that made me rethink some of my opinions.I would like to read the other volume of The Open Society and Its Enemies, on Hegel and Marx, but don't yet have it.
كتاب غاية في الروعة وعميق جدا
Popper brilliantly shows how Plato was no friend of democracy or freedom (the "open society"). This highly influential work is fascinating, yet, highly readable.
Seda arusaama esitleb Popper tulenevat Platoni muutumatuse, ühiskonna raudse ühtsuse ja selge klassiühiskonna ülistamisest üheseltmõistetava ja ainuõige headuse, tõe, õigluse, õnne jmt.
allikana (siin võite ära tunda äärmiselt päevakajalised ühiskondlikud vaidlused moraali absolutistide ning relativistide vahel, konservatiivide ja liberaalide väärtushinnangute või perspektiivide lahknevuse jne).
Oma selge ja otsese esitusviisi poolt ja äärmiselt päevakajalise temaatika poolest sobilik kõigile ideoloogiate filosoofiliste eelduste huvilistele, poliitikahuvilistele jne.
aasta raamatut lugedes on kindlasti võimalik tunda ära päevapoliitikas kasutatavate argumentide alusväärtusi ja fundamentaalseid arusaami ühiskonna ideaalkujust ja soovitavast kulgemissuunast, millele need argumendid tuginevad.
His work has a distinct voice from theirs, and his perspective on free society's much more inclusive than, say, Hayek's.
He also makes a compelling attack on historicism, here defined as political philosophies that take for granted a particular arc to history, which I found reasonable.I stopped this book about halfway because it felt low yield for me personally, but I'd recommend the book to people who want a slightly different take on liberalism.
Popper's larger points're reasonable and well made early on in the book.
Much of his work in the first half of this book focuses on dissecting Plato's later writing.
I was expecting a lot on this book. The earlier chapters are fine, introduction and criticism on Plato historicism, theory of form and ideas and his principles such as "arrest all the change" and so. It's very interesting and I agree with the author to some degree. The later chapters especially the last seem like accusation toward Plato personal life in very intellectual way. I can't argue about it precisely but this is what I feel when I read his text.
'Critical enquiry is good. Totalitarianism stifles critical enquiry. Therefore totalitarianism is bad. Plato advocates totalitarianism. So Plato must also be bad.' One reading of Platonic thought, and a nice critique of it.
R. Poppera nejen mistrně demaskuje totalitární tendence v Platonově dile, ale i brilantně analyzuje svět, ve kterém je prezidentem USA izolacionista Trump a v českém politickém mikropanoptiku rejdí třeba směšný kmenový vůdce Robejšek, národní závist a nenávist k individuálnímu podnikání živí postSTBácký žoviální oligarcha Babiš podáváním EET ve smrtelných dávkách a oběma sekunduje poslední typicky český samuraj Okamura, kterého by do blanického vojska za tvrdé verbální boje s imaginárními migranty v českých luzích a hájích naverboval a s láskou adoptoval snad i svatý Václav.
Nebo snad ani radši ne!
If you strike at me, as Anytus advises you, and rashly put me to death, then you will remain asleep for the rest of your lives, unless God sends you another gadfly'.
He showed that a man could die not only for fate and fame and other grand things of this kind, but also for the freedom of critical thought, and for a self-respect which has nothing to do with self-importance or sentimentality.""The lesson which we thus should learn from Plato is the exact opposite of what he tries to teach us.
A careful avoidance of polemic and generalisation enhances Popper's case against hitoricism and essentialism as they appear not only in Plato and his successors but also in Marx and some strains of Liberalism.
In this way, liberalism and state interference are not opposed to each other; in fact, 'any kind of freedom is clearly impossible unless it is guaranteed by the state.' A democratic state is therefore an association with rational ends, neither an object of worship nor an oppressor.
However, many of Popper's side observations, including Plato's legacy to education - stating its purpose (in opposition to Socrates) as that of forming future leaders, and studying for the sake of career - seem to have direct contemporary relevance.
My intention was to answer the question: what can science say about our life in society?I think Popper's answer was what I expected: not much.
Indeed, if we accept a liberal normative view that the ideal society is one in which individuals can exercise their individual freedoms and that these are limited only by the freedoms of others, the greatest intellectual challenge is to fight against those who espouse pseudo-scientific visions that degenerate into processes of social engineering.In this first volume of the book, Popper says that the basis of historicist thinking (the idea that it is possible to know history holistically and predict its long-term development) is in Plato.
قراءتي الاولى لكارل بوبر وسأوجز ما فهمته من هذا الكتاب المهم والصعبيركز بوبر على نقد لسلطه اين كانت 
لدى كارل بوبر فلسفته الخاصة التي تستطيع ان تستشفها من خلال كتاباته سواء كانت في مجال المنطق و المنهج العلمي او في مجال السياسة ..
. لقد كان تركيز بوبر في نقد الأفكار الشمولية و الدوغمائية في المقابل يؤكد على فكرة تراكمية وتدرج المعرفة.
بوبر يريدنا ان نكون دائماً منفتحين على الآراء من حولنا أيا كان مصدرها وتقبل النقد لأنه مفتاح التطور المعرفي و العلمي.في كتابه هذا انتقد بوبر قادة الفكر العالمي من أصحاب النظرات الشمولية و التفسير التاريخي ورغبتهم في إخضاع الإنسان للكُليات التاريخية التي يعتقدون بها وان يجعلوا الإنسان مكبل بواقع حتمية التاريخ فيتحرر من مسؤولية الاجتهاد والسعي لتغيير.
It's a radical re-reading of Plato which argues that, in his authoritarian vision of the perfect state, he is the forerunner of totalitarianism oppression (Nazism, Stalinism) and the enemy of true political freedom.
Perhaps the most unsettling claim, for philosophers anyway, is that Plato's use of the character of Socrates in his dialogues is a complete distortion of what the real Socrates stood for - the opposite, in fact.
The book is well-argued, clear, and - apart from some sections which will be challenging to non-philosophers - a pleasure to read.
I'm still not sure about all of what Popper says, mind you, but it's definitely a must read for anyone interested in Plato or political theory.
"If we dream of a return to our childhood, if we are tempted to rely on others and so be happy, if we shrink from the task of carrying our cross, the cross of humaneness, of reason, of responsibility, if we lose courage and flinch from the strain, then we must try to fortify ourselves with a clear understanding of the simple decision before us.
We can return to the beasts.
But if we wish to remain human, then there is only one way, the way into the open society.
أعداء المجتمع المفتوح هي الأفكار الشمولية التي تتضمن شموليتها انغلاقها فهي تقدم تصورا متكاملا منتهيا لتكون وتطور المجتمع التاريخي ومن هنا فهي تؤدي بالضرورة إلى الوقوف في وجه الأفكار المخالفة بل وقمعها ومن هنا ترافقت ، على مدار التاريخ البشري ، المذاهب الشمولية والقمع والديكتاتورية والاستبداد. الشيوعية وستالين النازية وهتلر الأديان والملوك في القرون الوسطى. كانت هذه متلازمة تثبت باستمرار خطر الأفكار الشمولية. المجتمع المفتوح هو المجتمع الديموقراطي الذي لا يحكمه تصور نهائي مثالي محدد بل يسير بخطوات متتابعة يسيّرها المحاولة المستمرة للتطور والتقدم محاولة منفتحة على الأفكار والتوجهات وغير محكومة بأفكار مسبقة
Popper was perhaps unfashionable for loathing Plato, but I can see where he's coming from. Plato's Republic would have been a dehumanising hell on earth if ever it was instigated. But I feel Plato in his talking about the different classes of society being strictly controlled had in mind the warring factions of the psyche rather than an actual society, so he's off the hook as far as I am concerned. I liked his discussions of Hegel's historicism, however, and of the ways in which historicism with its emphasis on grand goals ultimately leads to totalitarianism.
في رفض العودة والسكون، في درء النظريّات، التاريخانيّة واليوتيوبيا والشموليّة، وفي الدفع نحو مجتمع مفتوح: مثابرة في المجهول، واللايقيني، وغير الآمن، "مستعينين بما قد يخططه لنا العقل بقدر إمكاننا من أجل الأمان والحريّة معًا".
A good enough critique of Plato's political philosophy, but the theoretical framework is vague and unclear. Terms as Historicism and Open/Closed Society are so broad that their meaning seems to change according to the author's convinience.
