https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2151356.The_Two_Towers
The Lord of the Rings is the best of it's "type" and since it's the scale against which most other high and epic fantasy is measured what more needs to be said?
, which was published the same year.Not only does Tolkien put forth a vision of chaste, humble, 'everyman' heroes who persevere against temptation through piety, he also presents a world of dualistic good and evil, of eternal, personal morality, prototypical of the Christian worldview, particularly the post-Miltonic view.
Unlike Gro, Gollum is not a character with an alternative view of the world, but fluctuates between the hyperbolic highs and lows of Tolkien's morality.It is unfortunate that both good and evil seem to be external forces at work upon man, because it removes much of the agency and psychological depth of the characters.
Even better than I remember.
The first time I finished this book I was sitting on my bathroom floor because I couldn't put the book down long enough to move to anywhere better. I don't even remember how I got there. This time I was sitting in my bed eating a brownie.BEST REVIEW EVER.
After the breaking of the Fellowship, our heroes trek in different directions, on different journeys, onwards towards different destinies.Aragorn, Gimli and Legolas (with Boromir having made his departure) march onward in search of their hobbit friends Merry and Pippin, who've been kidnapped by orcs.Aragorn, the tracker known as Strider, fears he cannot find them.As they search, the Riders of Rohan, riders of the royal family of Isengard, happen upon them.Out friends have just stumbled into a war between Man and orc pillagers.When all seems lost,
Pippin and Merry after (view spoiler)[meeting Théoden basically cemented it for me, because of how Gandalf said something about hobbits and my heart warmed and I was all, “HOBBITS FTW.” So yeah.
A few times Sam described Frodo as “elf-like,” I think it was.
I just never got that while watching the movie.(view spoiler)[Stupid Shelob.
Die.Tolkien, I don’t care that it was a way for Sam to find out Frodo was alive.
SAM, DON’T PUT THE FREAKING EVIL RING ON SO CLOSE TO ITS HOME!
DANG IT, SAM!
(hide spoiler)]I wonder what Tolkien’s notes while writing LOTR looked like.
Continuing the read-aloud quest with Abigail. She was hooked already, but she’s good’n’hooked now.
3.5 stars.I have loved these movies since they came out and I am currently working through my first read through of the novels.When compared to The Fellowship of the Ring, The Two Towers is a bit of a let down.
I understand the purpose of isolating Frodo and Sam by focusing on them specifically in book four; however, the storylines say in a lull for the majority of the novel.
Faramir saved the latter half of the book.
I also quite enjoyed Frodo, Sam, and Gollum’s journey up into Mordor and Shelob’s Lair.
Happy reading!
Excellent as always. And yes, I am reading the books with this cover; they are falling apart, but I refuse to buy a copy with images from the movies on the front. Rank commercialism!
I wasn’t as enthralled with this book as much as The Fellowship Of The Ring. Two towers has a lot more war, which I know would interest a lot of people.. I just enjoy getting to know characters so that’s why I like Fellowship better. That being said, this was beautifully written as Tolkien always does
It's got elves, Dwarves, Orcs, wizards and everything a fantasy fan can want. Plus it pretty much started high fantasy as a genre of books. One of my all time favorite series. My highest recommendation
Great!
I initially was unexcited to see the book split up into Sam/Frodo and the rest of the Fellowship, but found it much more palatable during the actual read.
I admit I wasn't originally looking forward to Sam and Frodo's excellent adventure to Mordor, but actually found it to be more exciting than the previous book.
While reading Gollum's dialogue I felt a better sense of him as a character than perhaps anyone else in the series (save maybe Sam, who also has a lot of personality in a decidedly plot driven story).
Tolkien's prose manages to be extremely effective and surprisingly specific and I honestly cannot get enough of it!The first half of the book is entirely focused on Merry, Pippin, Legolas, Gimli, and Aragorn as their adventure continues without the Ringbearer.
The second half is about Frodo, Sam, and Gollum.
This half is why it took me so long to finish, because even though I love Frodo and Sam, their story is much slower-paced, and takes more time for me to get through.
"The Choices of Master Samwise" was a joy to read; Sam is the real hero of this story and I stand by that!Overall, wonderful, enthralling, incredible, everyone should read this.
I certainly didn't read the copy with the movie-tie in art and Orlando Bloom on it.
On that note, this book blows the fucking top off the movies.
I enjoyed the movies but ...
this book is a mystical tomb.Loved reading the bits about Sauron and the brief, mysterious passage describing Gandalf's fight with the Balrog.
Would love to know more about those creatures hidden under the earth, but the fact that you can't know more is such a perfect piece of mystery and world building.This blew my mind and surpassed the first book.
In a lot of ways this was much better than the first book. There was much more action, humor, and suspense. There were also many more plot twists (though I knew all of them after seeing the movie). However, there were some plot twists and secrets that were revealed a bit early, yet there still was a fair amount of suspense still considering.
My re-read of this trilogy is going well. It isn't... couldn't be... as powerful as the first time through. Some feelings you only get to feel once. But the story and characters are so attractive, I still find myself yearning to get back to reading this each night. And, Book 2 is a little less hokey than Book 1. I'm looking forward to Book 3.
I've read this series dozens of times - still a favorite.
No matter how much I tried I just cannot get into these... I skimmed about half...
I have a new, deeper appreciation for Gollum as one of the great, tragic literary characters of our time.
Ah, Sam. After I got my weeping under control, I said to Greg, "That is the best description of grief I've ever heard."
This is such a great book, but the story seems to go slow at times. I just had to set the book down for a few days and pick it back up and the plot seemed to move right along again.
It's a minor gripe, but it comes from my having a slight preference for the Aragorn/Legolas/Gimli chapters to the others, and it made the second half of the book a little bit slower of a read, especially since the narrative goes from the exciting battle of Helm's Deep in the land of Rohan to lots of chapters of a slow, subdued journey across various grey, dead lands.
The incredible second edition of Frodo. I was in college when I read this, and it was hard to do my homework while I saw the book sitting next to me. A lesson in there somewhere. Too good a read.
Since those days I have read it at least a dozen times, on my own or aloud to Cindy; I own cassette and CD copies of the BBC radio serial (not to be confused with the appalling 'Mind's Eye' version); I have read much of Tolkien's other work, both fiction and scholarship; and, despite the eventual blossoming of my interests in many subjects and a personal library of over 2000 books, the great epic of the End of the Third Age of Middle-earth remains at the core of my literary world, and has permanently and profoundly shaped my perspective on life and my understanding of joy, sorrow, hope, sacrifice, humility, courage, beauty, loyalty, devotion, and the simple, homely pleasures and gifts the modern world too easily throws away or ploughs under.Like many, I felt betrayed by Peter Jackson's cinematic version, not because he inevitably adapted the story to perceived film requirements, but because he completely changed the fundamental spirit and motivation of every major character save one.
I wonder if Tolkien ever thought of having the book end with Frodo's "death".
I think Frodo and Sam need to be at the end.
We need the space between Frodo and Sam taking off in the book until we see them again so that we can forget about the fun-loving Hobbits from Fellowship.
We also need to have Gandalf return before we lose Frodo.
Finally at the end of the book, I found myself wanting a story from Sam's point of view.
I want to hear Sam's internal monologue.
Also, it's way more awesome than the movie because it's much less predictable and describes scenes which no film could ever rightly portray.SPOILERs: One of my favorite parts [not shown in the film] is when Gandalf notices the Ents have come to the edge of Helms Deep, and King Theoden cannot believe his eyes.
Gandalf sternly reminds the King that all the years since the establishment of his kingdom are "of little count to them" and that the deeds of his house are "but a small matter" to them.
What's not to love about sentient trees destroying an industrialized wizard's tower? Or a giant spider monster who is so heavily armored that the only creatures strong enough to hurt is... herself? Or the image of the hobbits Pippin and Merry smoking their pipeweed and munching on goodies freed from the cellars of Orthanc?(When I put it that way, the popularity of these books among hippies in the 60s makes some more sense, doesn't it--ecological revenge, karmic justice against the heavily armored and militarized, and weed.)Still enjoyable, I think, though a certain tendency towards portentousness slows down the novel considerably.
For example, the battle at Helm's Deep was only one chapter!
But actually, Tolkien's description of the battle wasn't that great so I was glad it was short.
Instead of alternating chapters with Frodo and with the others, Tolkien follows Merry & Pippin first, Aragorn next, and Frodo and Sam last.
It's a little odd since it's all supposed to be happening at once but it worked and it's nice that you don't have to keep resetting yourself.Loved the ents, love Gollum, love Sam's battle with Shalob.
The description of the battles at Isengard and Helm's Deep could have been better.
Things look bleak. Sam and Frodo are on their own. The Fellowship has split up, some folks are dead, some are held captive, what are we gonna do about Saruman? Shit's crazy. We are coming closer to war people. Sharpen your swords, pluck up your courage. The only way out is through.These are books that I feel you have to read at a certain age. They are an undertaking. They are a bit over written. But the good parts are so good. There's romance and treachery and chase scenes and magic. It's not lighthearted. But it's entertaining.
