https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/373515.The_Idea_of_Phenomenology
"...the common element is then in the methodology of the analysis of essences within the sphere of immediate evidence." (12).Lecture 1 - Husserl contrasts natural thinking with philosophical thinking, as natural thinking takes cognition for granted.
Husserl explains that phenomenology is a critique of naturalistic cognition, it tries to get at the essence of things.
Therefore, Husserl is demonstrating that science cannot be the source of epistemology.Lecture 3 - "Thus to each psychic lived process there corresponds through the device of phenomenological reduction a pure phenomenon, which exhibits its intrinsic (immanent) essence (taken individually) as an absolute datum." (35).
تقوم فلسفة الظاهراتية على كونها إحدى فروع نظرية المعرفة ( الابسيتمولوجيا) من حيث ماهية المعرفة التي نكتسبها و هل هي فعلاً معرفة حقيقية أم ظاهرة ليس إلا.سيكتشف المتأمل في المناهج الفلسفية أن جوهر الفكرة ليس جديد على المدارس الفلسفية التي عرفها تاريخ الفلسفة و لكن الصياغة اللغوية هي بشكل مختلف لتقديم نظرية جديدة بعض الشيء ، فعلى سبيل المثال نرجع لعبارة شوبنهاور *العالم تمثلي * لفهم ماهية الخبرة المعرفية/ الابسيتمولوجية التي نمتلكها من حيث كونها معرفة محدودة بما تستوعبه حواسنا.
إن من الظلم أن نختزل فكراً شمولياً معرفياً كالفينومينولوجيا في معنى اللفظة فقط , كتب صديقي علي تويتر
so i decided to read this short work by hs because 'ideas' seems too long, too complex, but the four is more for the idea than the writing: hs is not a fluid writer but then these are lecture notes.
maybe in person it would be easier to follow.
though it is said an intro to phenomenology i would suggest reading on hs and his particular innovation of phenomenology, rather than starting here...
his last big work is much easier to read but it is best to start with say 'edmund husserl: philosopher of infinite tasks' by natanson or 'husserl's phenomenology' by zahavi...
هل إدراكنا لماهية الأشياء يسمح لنا بتسمية ذلك وعيًّا؟ ما هو الوعي أصلاً؟ الإدراك الإنساني لا يزال أمرًا غامضًا إلى أي درجة يمكن أن يكون الوعي صادقًا كافية ليخلو من الشك؟أعتقد أن الفينومينولوجيا توصلنا إلى عدم اتخاذ موقف واثق من كل الأشياء في الحياة، ذلك مايجعلنا في نهاية الطريق نقابل ديكارت :)
I read this as part of a course in phenomenology, and the whole subject simply blew me away.
I had never expected a philosophy to so closely dovetail with modern science, but phenomenology goes hand in hand with the psychology and neurology of how our sense systems work.
Husserl's lectures were clear and concise with examples that were both common and well articulated.
As with most of phenomenology some lesson in German is needed as many of the words created by Husserl and other phenomenologists (like Heidegger) are compounds of multiple German words which do not translate as a unit.The Idea of Phenomenology is definitely an excellent step to take in beginning a study of this branch of philosophy, and was just as enjoyable as it was enlightening.
Para entender los conceptos de Ontología, y las características de los objetos, su clasificación y diferencia.
Husserl's genius is that he describes WHAT IS HAPPENING to you right now.
He breaks down and describes the pure phenomena, the self-evident evidence.
Without ideology, without ulterior motive, without anything that can block the course of honest investigation and true sight.
He repeats himself a lot as well, and while the reader may find this frustrating at first he really has to do it in order for the realizations of what he is saying to sink in and so that the reader does not get lost in his complex and unorthodox argument.
Highly recommended to people who like philosophy.
I read this book as part of an Honors Lit Theory class. This class was so fun, like someone took a can opener to my brains, lifted out the contents, and lovingly rearranged my consciousness. I remember the portion about Hiedegger, Husserl and others and it was like a rapid fire assault to my brain waves and ideas were presented, turned around , linked, and then resignified. I never expected it, but one theory class and I was turned on to a whole new way of looking at reality. Thanks to excellent prof SL!
Oleh karena itu dalam filsatat tidak akan pernah terjadi kebenaran yang mutlak, semuanya akan mengalir sesuai dengan meningkatnya kemampuan daya pikir manusia.Pada masa sebelum ada cara berpikir fenomenologis, cara berpikir manusia dibagi dua kutup yang berawanan 180 drajat yaitu: idealisme dan realisme.Kaum idealisme menilai object atau benda-benda maupun peristiwa yang terjadi disekitarnya berdasarkan ide-ide yang dikembangkan dalam pikirannya yang kemudian ide-ide ini membentuk semacam "frame of reference" yang secara subjective dipahami sebagai kebenaran.
Oleh karena itu seorang idealis biasanya juga sangat subjective dalam menilai dunia sekitarnya.Sedangkan kebalikannya kaum realisme, melihat object atau benda-benda maupun sesuatu peristiwa yang ada adalah sesuai dengan keadaan nyata benda tersebut yang secara object bisa diraba, diukur atau punyai nilai objective tertentu.
From the conception of transcendental developed by Kant, Husserl sets out to conceive a positive approach for philosophy. This positive approach focuses on the essence of phenomenal data, of the immediately given, to provide a study of what constitutes life in its immanent sense.Since I have to read it for an assignment due New Year's Eve it's really a burden, but the content itself is interesting if you're into transcendental philosophy.
Çok iyi bir kitap ancak aynı şeyi çeviri için söylemek mümkün değil. Husserl çevirmenin zor olduğunu anlıyorum ama bir felsefe kitabında Türkçe kullanım hatası yapılması kabul edilemez. "Şey" her zaman, her yerde ve her şekilde ayrı yazılır. "Şey" gibi önemli bir kelimeyi (özellikle felsefik açıdan önemli) "herşey", "birşey" gibi kullanılmasına tahammül etmek çok can sıkıcı. Umarım kitabın yeni baskılarında bu hata düzeltilir.
مدخل ممتاز للفينومينولوجيا.
Il filosofo austriaco articola il programma della Fenomenologia in cinque lezioni piuttosto lineari, nonostante certi tecnicismi e stravolgimenti di parole e concetti possano cogliere impreparati coloro che non hanno alcun tipo di base riguardo alla disciplina filosofica esposta.Si affrontano, sostanzialmente, tutti i perni portanti delle successive riflessioni di Husserl:1.
Nella quinta e ultima lezione, invece, il filosofo delinea il termine "prensione d'essenza" (Wesenserfassung) e descrivendo le relazioni soggetto-oggetto nei confronti della realtà spaziale e temporale delinea il punto d'avvio per quelle che saranno le sue ricerche successive.Per tutti gli interessati ad Husserl e la Fenomenologia, se non volete necessariamente partire con un testo di critica, queste cinque lezioni, nonostante la difficoltà alle volte relativa alla terminologia adottata, è un ottimo punto d'avvio.
A great synthesis of Husserl's phenomenological method. It's an indispensable for anyone whose studying Phenomenology and its aplications.
Çok felsefe.
Ya siz çok zekisiniz ya ben çok salağım. Adam bence gayet basit konuşuyor olm. Belki büyük bir derlemeci diyebiliriz Husserl için. Kant'ın Beliren/Öz'ünden azıcık, Descartes'ın metodik şüphesinden birazcık, Hume'un psikolojisi derkeeeeen pat "bilinç fenomenolojisi". Elbette Husserl'ın Descartes'a göre taşaklı tarafı, apaçıklığı "inandığı gibi yaşama" olarak algılaması. Descartes'ın apaçıklığı tepemde ay var gibi bir geyikti. Reduktion da öze dönüş falan, bunlar hep oralardan çıkmış sanırım. Gel gelelim bu aralar Metin Eloğlu varlığıma daha çok şey söylüyor.
Only read part of this (the first and second lecture) for a university class and while it's a tough read, I actually found it to be understandable. I'm not much for reading philosophical texts like this, but it was somewhat interesting at least.
سيمنار قدّمه هوسرل حول فلسفته
Good first theorization with the phenomenological reduction, but Husserl does not explain how he understands "givenness", which is pivotal to all phenomenology.
