https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/277191.The_Ironwood_Tree
ممتعة لأقصى حد لا أريد الإنتهاء منها ولكن بنفس الوقت متحمسة لقراءة أخر جزء منها لا أريدها ان تنتهي سأفتقد هذه السلسلة الرائعة
ตอนชวงผจญภัยในถำคนแคระสนุกดี แตภาพรวมทังเลมเราวายังเรือยๆ ไมมีอะไรนาตืนเตนมากนัก จาเรดกับไซมอนเวลาแทคทีมกันกดูเทหไปอีกแบบ เอาจริงๆอานมาสีเลมแลวเราวาเนือเรืองเบาโหวงไปหนอยนะ การเคลียรปมในแตละเลมกงายมาก แตถาคิดวาหนังชุดนีกคลายๆกับนิทานอีสปเลมบางๆเหมือนของบานเรากถือวาสนุกใชไดเลย(view spoiler)[มัลลอรีถูกคนแคระจับตัวไป และจาเรดกตกทีนังลำบากเมือเขาถูกจับระหวางถือมีดอยูทีโรงเรียน จาเรดและไซมอนจึงตองออกเดินทางไปยังทีอยูของคนแคระเพือเอาหนังสือภาคสนามไปแลกกับตัวพีสาวของพวกเขา แตเดกชายทังสองโดนคนแคระจับตัว
ตอนช่วงผจญภัยในถ้ำคนแคระสนุกดี แต่ภาพรวมทั้งเล่มเราว่ายังเรื่อยๆ ไม่มีอะไรน่าตื่นเต้นมากนัก จาเร็ดกับไซม่อนเวลาแท็คทีมกันก็ดูเท่ห์ไปอีกแบบ เอาจริงๆอ่านมาสี่เล่มแล้วเราว่าเนื้อเรื่องเบาโหวงไปหน่อยนะ การเคลียร์ปมในแต่ละเล่มก็ง่ายมาก แต่ถ้าคิดว่าหนังชุดนี้ก็คล้ายๆกับนิทานอีสปเล่มบางๆเหมือนของบ้านเราก็ถือว่าสนุกใช้ได้เลย(view spoiler)[มัลลอรี่ถูกคนแคระจับตัวไป และจาเร็ดก็ตกที่นั่งลำบากเมื่อเขาถูกจับระหว่างถือมีดอยู่ที่โรงเรียน จาเร็ดและไซม่อนจึงต้องออกเดินทางไปยังที่อยู่ของคนแคระเพื่อเอาหนังสือภาคสนามไปแลกกับตัวพี่สาวของพวกเขา แต่เด็กชายทั้งสองโดนคนแคระจับตัวไปเสียก่อนและได้พบกับมัลลอรี่ที่นอนสลบไสลไม่ได้สติอยู่ในโลงแก้ว ทั้งจาเร็ดและไซม่อนจึงต้องหาวิธีที่จะช่วยมัลลอรี่ออกมาจากรังของคนแคระให้ได้ เมื่อพวกเขาทำได้สำเร็จ...จาเร็ด ไซม่อนและมัลลอรี่ก็ได้พบกับมุลการาธและรู้ว่าแม่ของพวกเขาถูกออร์คจับตัวเอาไว้ (hide spoiler)]
There are huge chunks of new scenes in this fourth instalment that were not in the movie. So it's like reading a different storyline. I'm really warming to Mallory and Simon, too.As usual, the drawings by Tony DiTerlizzi are as breath-taking as ever.
It’s all coming together now.I can feeeeeeel the battle coming :D
Read as part of #ReadKidsLitThings are getting creepy and tense, but still loads of fun. Excited for the Wrath of Mulgarath...I mean, not really...excited for the book...not so much the actual wrath. That can remain within the pages, please.
This book series is amazing! I’ve only got one more book left to go! I really love that the kids are growing closer.
Is happening what a boy was sad and her mom was sick and her go to bed and mom needs to rest
These are great books, wonderfully written and illustrated.
As the series progresses, the relationship between the three Grace children solidifies.
They grow closer together as they struggle against those forces that wish to take Arthur Spiderwick's Field Guide, and they grow in character through the trials they encounter.What is great is that as each book progresses, the story moves faster and faster.
In this book they encounter goblins again, and dwarves and an ogre.
We encounter mechanical animals and a few hidden surprises even the children could not expect.
I think it would be a waste of time to go over the plot again...that's what the title page of the book is for.Damn, I was not prepared how cold and industrial dwarves are!
Finally, some darkness has been added to the plot and we finally get to see the villain of the story!
I know these books are meant for children, but I think a nice little element of creepiness really made this story into something fun to read.
I didn't think it would be as graphic as it was at the end, but I guess that's what you get when you have Holly Black write a children's story.
I can honestly say that this series is one that was really let down by the film adaptation.
If you’re someone who enjoyed the film then I really do suggest that you read the books to find out just how great they actually are rather than taking the film standpoint on it.The fourth instalment of the series follows in the footsteps of the three previous books as it is another well-paced read which keeps you interested from the start until the end.
Throughout this book there is real build-up to the events that are due to take place in the final book.
i loved this book it is so discripted and detailed it is such a good book!! that's why i love the book.
נראה לי שמיצינו את הסדרה.אני קצת במתח מה קורה עם ארתור, אבל את בארי זה הפסיק לעניין.
I think this book is mysterious. and the series is even more amazing then I thought it would be.
Me ha encantado, sencillo, directo, entrañable, lleno de seres fantásticos. No entiendo por qué solo hicieron una peli de estos libros. Los recomiendo mucho a los que os guste Harry Potter.
3.5 stars
No ha sido mi favorito.Los dos primeros capítulos prometían muchísimo, no contaré mucho para evitar spoilers, sentí que la historia empezaba a madurar un poco y se creaban muchas incognitas (mas de las que ya tenemos), pero lamentablemente el libro fue cayendo poco a poco, todo el desarrollo fue lento e innecesario en mi opinión.
No me agradó que pasaban cosas muy infantiles (lo sé, seguro un niño lo disfrutaría).
El final casi salva el libro, todo depende de lo que ocurra en el siguiente (y último) libro de esta saga.
"Your kind wither in the blink of an eye." He leaned close to the bars of the cage and winked.  After randomly remembering how much I loved this book series as a kid, I picked up The Spiderwick Chronicles to see if it held up over the years, and I was pleasantly surprised. Cashing in on the children's-fantasy kick of the early 2000's, this heavily illustrated book is in the same fantastical vein of the Harry Potter series with the childish, macabre aesthetic of A Series of Unfortunate Events. D
Despite the intended audience, the only thing about this book that seems intended for children is its incredibly short length; everything from the illustrations, to the darker content of the book --even the vocabulary used in the narration-- seems intended for a young adult audience.
The only downfall of the series, in my eyes, is that the short length (around 10,000 words a book) results in a very rapid rise-and-fall of plot climaxes.
All in all, one of those series you'd like to keep around for whenever you have children.
It frustrates me that there are five "books" but each is barely a chapter. I think I would have enjoyed the series a lot more when I was younger. It frustrates me that the world building is good but barely explored and so limited. Just because it's a children's book, it doesn't mean it has to be dumbed down. Only simplified.
I loved it so much, this is a book that is difficult to describe. it was so cute ..The end of the story is better than the beginning. So, I'm sure to read all the numbers of (The Spiderwick Chronicles) .
"You can never get away from your own self."
Love it, this is my favorite until now cmkskskdjcekskjx
This one's the best yet in the series so far. I'm excited to see what happens in book 5!
Bu kitap bana diğerlerinden daha gerçekçi geldi.
Üstelik artık düşmanlarını tanıyorlar: Yutanhoyrat.
Grace çocuklarının babası gerçekten annesi ile irtibat halindeyse o anneye de yazıklar olsun.
Yazıklar olsun senin gibi anneye!
Devamlı Jared’ın başının derde giriyor oluşu da çok can sıkıcı bence.
Mallory’yi kesin o eskrim takım kaptanı çok kıskandı.
Çocuk Mallory daha iyi diye triplere falan girdi.
Böyle bir mesaj vermeleri hoşuma gitti.
Çocukların sanki normal bir hayatları var gibiydi.
Yutanhoyrat eğer okulda Jared’ın şekline girense çok zeki demektir.
Bu arada kitap kapağı efsane.
Yaptırmayı düşünmüyor değilim, belki bir sonraki dövmem bu kitabın kapağı olur.
Çok güzel olmuştu bence.
This fourth installment in the Spiderwick Chronicles, does not quite hold up to its predecessors, but that doesn't mean it's not an excellent story.
For being such short books, and written for a young audience, these stories really pack a punch.
My main drawback with this one was the fact that it ends with a major cliffhanger.
Each of the preceding books had a smaller tale within that connected to the overall plot in the series.
This one seemed to just be a continuation, so there was no satisfying ending.
Instead it just, well, ended.
"That can't be a tree," Simon said.
"There's no sun.
No sun means no photosynthesis."Jared peered at the trunk.
"It's metal," he said, realizing that the leaves were all of beaten silver.
"The first Ironwood tree," said one of the dwarves.
I was wondering when I read the first book how it will turn out YOU KNOW because I had that feeling it's going to get pretty awesome.
I mean Tony DiTerlizzi's drawings are amazing.
I adore/love his WonderLa Series.I have a question though: Is the writing purely just by Holly Black or by both?
Because If it's her - Does anyone else recommend a book by Holly Black?
Not quite as good as book 3, but still..
I love this series SO MUCH.Writing/Style: 4/4Characters: 3/4Story: 3/4Pacing: 4/4Ending: 2/4Total: 16/20I really liked the dwarf kingdom/quarry.
I really enjoyed the growth of Mallory's character.
She's growing up, and it's nice to see the progression.
I didn't totally love the added drama with Jared and his mom (the whole "he won't stop misbehaving" thing).
And I didn't love that this one ended so openly.
I get that the series is sort of wrapping up (this is book 4 out of 5) but I liked that each book is its own story.
La historia sigue avanzando a zancadas. Creo que este libro es el que menos me ha gustado hasta ahora, tal vez porque todo fue acción y menos acertijos. Pero ya quiero saber cómo acaba.Esta vez he sentido cierta pena por Jared, llegar al punto de que tus padres se rindan contigo sabiendo que no es tu culpa… puede ser devastador.Sí o sí termino la saga esta semana.
These books are so cute and fun!I can not wait for the kids in my life to read these when they’re old enough. Full of adventure and amazing sibling relationships this is something I think most kids will love I can’t wait to read the last book in the adorable series even tho I’ll be sad it’s over! What a fun ride!
Estos libros son super entretenidos. Este en particular es una historia que no sale en la película, o mas bien decidieron recortar y no incluirla, así que fue algo nuevo para mi. Son libros ideales para que los mas pequeños empiecen a leer y se embarquen en el mundo de Spiderwick.
*3,5*
