https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/10541.Made_in_America
Bill Bryson is like the Abba of books.
Everyone, your granny and your kid's teacher and your babysitter, and your mum's friends, everybody has a couple they really like and they probably have Bill Bryson's Greatest Hits on the cd shelf too.
Safest present to give to someone you know very little about : a Bill Bryson book.
Oh, everyone loves him Didn't he do Dancing Queen?
We danced to Notes from a Small Island at our wedding.
So if you get my hand in a vice and start turning the handle then I'll admit between gritted teeth that Bill can write some tuneful melodies and Abba are occasionally amusing.
Also, I think if you are an American you might be a great deal more interested in the entire of history of America as experienced by European settlers than I am.
Ask yourself this, what interest do you have in Caribbean history (somewhat, but not entirely, boring) or worse, much worse, Welsh history, since its not exactly a history of a get-up-and-go people who Did Great Things (they liked to sing a lot and annoy the English essentially).
Nothing bores like reading political squabbles, at least to me.
Bryson’s Made In America is a usually fascinating but sometimes overwhelming conversation about the manner in which language has evolved in the United States over the last couple hundred years.
Still, I’d read more Bryson (this is his third title on my “read” shelf, I believe) and I’d recommend Made in America to someone looking for an intensive, if somewhat random, analysis of English in the United States.
I am such a nerd!
Why else would I find a book about "words" more exciting than "The Bourne Identity" or "Hunt For Red October".
Then again, in my defense and to give enormous credit where it is due ...
1) I am a writer and words are everything to my trade, and 2) Bill Bryson brings such a fascinating and encyclopedic knowledge not just of etymology but a sensitivity to the historical and cultural environment within which language develops and evolves.
But beyond that appealing surface level of his presentation is the smart and insightful perspective he brings to any subject he chooses to address.
In considering the development of the language in the U.S., Bryson casts a wide net, with the first nine chapters covering various stages of American history from the Mayflower to the various waves of immigration that characterized the late 19th and early 20th centuries.
To say that this book is 'about' American English is a bit like saying "A Tale of two Cities" is 'about' knitting.
Sure, his style is sometimes a bit discursive, and the author has a fondness for tangents...
The first few chapters of this book were actually interesting in that they discusses the way that the first settlers in American spoke, how that gradually began to differ from the way people spoke in English and how different it is from modern American speech.
While Bryson attempted to make this more interesting by adding anecdotes about the people of the historical period that he was dealing with, these anecdotes seemed only tangentially related to the subject matter of the book; at times it seemed to me that Bryson had completely forgotten that he was writing a book on language.
This was thoroughly researched and full of trivia-type facts of U.S. history and the evolution of words in American English. Much of these facts were fascinating, but then the book got boring. Maybe it was the layout and the way that all the facts were organized. I can’t really tell. This being Bill Bryson, well, I guess that I wanted to like it much more than I did. I definitely prefer his travelogues, which are among my favorite books ever.
Bill Bryson hat sich als Autor zahlreicher Sachbücher über ein großes Spektrum hinweg einen Namen gemacht und wird von vielen besonders für sein Talent, die witzigsten Geschichten und Fakten ausfindig zu machen, sowie seinen trockenen Humor geliebt.
Das gilt insbesondere für die ganz frühe Entwicklung der Sprachen aus dem indoeuropäischen Sprachenkreis.Und dann haut der Mann mich doch schon in der Einführung um, indem er erwähnt, dass der Aufzählreim „Eenie, meenie, minie, mo“ nicht nur älter ist als die römische Besatzung des alten Britanniens, sondern eventuell sogar aus vorkeltischer Zeit stammt.
Die Themen fächern sich außerdem immer mehr auf, sodass sie einen Hauch von Aufzählcharakter gewinnen.Was in dem Buch noch fehlt, ist der Einfluss der Cyberwelt und der hochgradigen Vernetzung durch das Internet.
Also, this time, Bryson's blithe and breezy commentary seemed less witty and more shallow.
One example: Bryson dismisses Zane Grey as "a New York dentist who knew almost nothing of the West but refused to let that get in the way of a good tale." I've read Grey's accounts of his cougar hunting trips into the Grand Canyon and visited the recreation of his cabin on the Mongollon Rim in Payson, Arizona, so I knew that isn't really true.
A cursory investigation would have changed Bryson's judgment, but it wouldn't have been as amusing.
Nevertheless, Bryson is amusing and entertaining.
Funny, interesting and informative. One fact that sticks with me is that every town in America had its own time until the railroad decided clock time needed to be standardized. What that has to do with American English I don't remember, but that's how Bryson's writing is--there are lots of fascinating side stories.
From the author who consistently manages to write the exact sort of nonfiction I enjoy comes a history of American, that very specific form of linguistic mutilation bestowed upon proper English by our fair nation.
While American history doesn't interest me all that much (which didn't preclude me from learning about as much as a person can about it through books, after all it's only 500some years to cover), in one or more parallel universes I'm probably some sort of linguist/etymologist, so from that perspective the book was fascinating and positively crammed with information in Bryson's inimitable anecdotal style.
Para quem gosta de história como eu e tem sempre curiosidade por saber de onde vêm as coisas então este é definitivamente um livro que vão gostar.
Tenho a sensação de que acabei de ler uma enciclopédia.
Desde os colonos até ao nosso século há tanta referência a tanta coisa.
Pessoas, palavras, expressões, comidas, locais, objetivos...um mundo de conhecimento ao nosso dispôr e de forma acessível.
É para mim um dos melhores do Bill Bryson e com muito mais ritmo e interesse (a meu ver) do que Notas da Pequena Ilha.
Espero que gostem tanto como eu gostei deste pequeno mas super interessante "calhamaço"!
This is one of those books that takes you quite a while to read, but not because its slow.
The information contained in the 400-odd pages is simply too much to digest in one go.
Bryson takes us from the 1500s till the early 1990s, taking us through each and every American thing there is in between.
Funny thing is, this is meant to be a book on the evolution of American English, but it is also one about history.
I learnt more about American history, or rather, what made America what it is today, from this book than from any other I've read previously.
I love Bill Bryson. His narratives are rich with cultural tidbits and historical wonders. Unfortunately, this book crawled. I felt like I was on a car ride with my favorite uncle who told a bunch of amusing anecdotes that were amusing when we were just on the way to the beach, but became insufferable on a long, cross-country drive. Good in small doses. The tidbits are great. But boy, it was hard to stick with this one.
Although I don’t live in America, it is obvious that they have had a big influence on the English language.
Bill Bryson’s ‘Made In America’ explores the history of America and the effects it had on the language.
I found the most interesting parts to do with censorship in America, from titbit becoming tidbit, cockroach becoming roach and to the extreme case of political correction which wanted to stop the use of terms like blackeye and blacksmith (but interestingly enough, not blackout).
I feel I’ve gained some valuable insight into why American English is different to the commonly used Queens’ English, while getting a history into commonly used terms.
Another wonderful Bryson book.
I simply adore his writing style.
His books are like candy.
The one detraction from this book is the length.
I wish that this was a history of the US, instead of a history of the English language in the US.
Some of the etymology is truly interesting, but the long lists of words and fixation of spelling variances throughout history are tedious.
If this was taken out (or slimmed down) it would be a much better book.
Even so, this is a really enjoyable book as underneath is a wonderfully comprehensive history of the United States and the Americas.
Oh my gosh I finally finished this book. It’s not that it was a bad book. It actually was quite informative and entertaining. I have read many Bryson books and I know he is a detailed guy but this book was the king of detail. Kind of a slog at times. Lots of cool facts though, if only I could remember them.
Fascinating. I loved it.
This is Bryson's take on the evolution of American English.For those like myself,who are more familiar with British English,it is very enlightening.
Much, MUCH,  MUCH  more than a history of the English language in America! Bryson with magical and funny writing links the evolution of language with the evolution of culture, science, recreation, food, politics. His controversial or almost heretical debunkings of accepted history are supported with an extensive bibliography of the sources.The debunking is endless! Barely a page was turned that didn't leave me amazed at how much I don't know, and just how far away from documented history is the
It was the Puritans, too, who refined the intriguing custom of bundling, or tarrying as it was also often called, in which a courting pair were invited to climb into bed together..."As one seventeenth-century observer explained it: 'When a man is enamoured of a young women, and wishes to marry her, he proposes the affair to her parents; if they have no objections they allow him to tarry the night with her, in order to make his court with her.
man, one giant leap for mankind.' Bryson also wades into the issue of politically correct language with intelligence, diplomacy, and razor sharp observations — and, of course, humour.This books re-affirms the vivifying joy and beauty and aliveness of the English language.
(The Spanish also applied cimarron to a tribe of Muskhogean Indians, the ones we know as Seminoles, from which comes the name of the Cimarron River.) In the meantime, the French had picked up cimarron and changed it to marron, their word for chestnut, and it then passed into English as maroon, with two quite separate meanings--a chestnutlike color and the act of being abandoned.
I find it to be more the latter; little anecdotes like the following are a case in point: "limousine" comes from a coat worn by shepherds in Limousin, France, because that same coat was favored by early chauffeurs.
3 Stars - GoodThe PremiseBill Bryson takes a trip through the history of America in an attempt to identify and explain some of the origins and peculiarities behind phrases and popular words.Pros and ConsPositives:- The book is well structured and follows a winding path through the american vocabulary, using a good range of themes to guide the reader through the development of the American language.- Where this book excels is when it combines rich explanations of certain vocabulary with a brief rundown of America's history, where Bryson can begin to inject some of his more usual witty writing style.Negatives: - Bryson's usually chatty style is severely restricted due to the nature of the book.
As much as I love Bill Bryson's writing, I found it reeeeeeeeeally difficult to get through "Made in America." I learned a lot of interesting facts and the book did clear up some misconceptions I had, but it didn't make up for the fact that some of the sections in this book were incredibly boring.
I know that the book was primarily supposed to be about the origins of everyday words and phrases, but sometimes it felt like Bryson went a bit overboard.
It felt like I was reading a dictionary, and had I known it was going to be that way, I probably would not have bothered reading it in the first place.
I love this man's ability to observe human behavior and cultural differences and tell it all in a way that is funny, endearing and gives us a feeling of connectedness no matter where we live.

This is the second book about the history of English by Bill Bryson I’ve read.
I personally didn’t enjoy this one as much as the previous book about English because the language itself wasn’t formed here, so this is more of a history of the unique vocabulary and idioms used here in the states.
In all, I enjoyed the book, but didn’t find it quite as entertaining as some of his other works, or as compelling a read as his other book on the history of the English language.
When Bryson uses vocabulary examples to support larger narratives or points, he's brilliant.
To that end, I loved his early chapters - on the 18th century, national identity, immigration, and infrastructure, for example.
At these points, the book feels more like a book of trivia than a linguistic history.
Bryson read or consulted some linguistic and American history classics, and compiled pretty good notes and a bibliography.
But in some historical discussions he draws exclusively from secondary sources and reaches debatable conclusions, which he then oversimplifies.
His depiction of Ellis Island as a magnificent and welcoming gateway full of charitable employees (and he cites only one, secondary source) might raise some eyebrows.
Bryson starts by taking a chronological approach to the Americanization of mother English, and one drawback is that early on he must devote more time to historical context than to linguistic content.
And of course, the account is accordingly more readable to the casual reader, while still retaining the bibiliography and index of words needed for further research and reference (unlike the book I just reviewed, You All Spoken Here).After following the historical approach into the 19th century, Bryson then switches to a topical approach, covering topics like eating, sports and leisure, politics, shopping, manners, technology, and, of course sex, where we learned about titbit (and other casualties of the overly cautious).
While the subject of language fills up about half of the book, the other half is not really about language at all; it is a collection of anecdotes about American history.
Bryson blends the subjects of language and history together rather well, but it sometimes seems like the same strategy that various TV dramas use nowadays; multiple plots running simultaneously.
This strategy helps to keep people with short attention spans engaged, and it may be necessary for the average TV viewer--but is it really necessary for a well-documented, well-written book?
The chapters about the founding fathers of America was pretty tough because a lot of the writing relied upon prior knowledge of the subject, of which I have very little, but past that, this book is typical Bryson.Funny whilst unbelievably informing this book is the perfect holiday read.
Although I wouldn’t count it as one of my favourites of his, that honour being reserved for such classics as Notes From A Small Island, I did really enjoy this and heartily recommend it with a glass of peach ice tea.
(I was away and Greece and didn’t see it quite fitting for tea and a good book….)
