https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/574927.Death_in_Midsummer_and_Other_Stories
Mishima, kendi ifadesiyle "saydam bir kristal" bence.Sanki çoğu insanın farkına bile varamadığı duyguları yakalayıp zamanı durduruyor. Onu okurken dünyayı gizleyen perdeler aralanıyor sanki.
So unfair.Death in Midsummer- I've seen those films like In the Bedroom about parents grieving over a dead kid and blaming each other and I'd suspect maybe I was some kind of an asshole for thinking none of the people revelations were anything revealing.
("I'd like to thank my parents ...") And maybe I was egotistical thinking I knew how someone else felt and now can't I please feel something new.
My previous feeling about Yukio Mishima was that he was cynical about people in the way that I felt watching something like In the Bedroom.
It is a reminder that no matter how odd certain aspects of someone’s life is or was, it does not account for the whole person; Mishima may have been a fanatic, a fascist, a crazy man, but there was clearly a tender and empathetic side to him, involving a deep understanding of ordinary people, otherwise he would never have been able to write these stories.Having said all that, the most well-known story in the collection, Patriotism, is one of the most unnerving things I have ever read.
Morte em Pleno Verão - ★★★★★Três Milhões de Ienes - ★★★Garrafas-Termos - ★★★★O Sacerdote do Templo de Shiga e o Seu Amor - ★★★★ As Sete Pontes - ★★★★Patriotismo - ★★★★★ (!!!)Onnagata - ★★★★"«É isto, o seppuku?», pensou. Dir-se-ia que era o caos absoluto, como se o céu lhe tivesse desabado sobre a cabeça e o mundo, embriagado, cambaleasse (...) Pareceu-lhe inacreditável que, no meio de um tão terrível sofrimento, o que podia ser olhado pudesse ainda ser olhado e o que existia pudesse ainda existir." (Patriotismo, p. 112)
از یوکیو میشیما این را میدانستم که هاراکیری کرده. یک مرگ شرافتمندانه. و نمیدانستم نامزد نوبل بوده. چند سال قبل داستان قنداق را خوانده بودم و انگار همیشه چیزی در من وجود داشت که از داستانهای ژاپنی و فضاهای رازآلودشان خوشم بیاید. اما در این مجموعه فقط یکی دو داستان خوب هست، یا حداقل یکی دو داستان که برای من کشش داشته باشد و جایی در حافظهام نقش ببندد.
از یوکیو میشیما این را می‌دانستم که هاراکیری کرده. یک مرگ شرافتمندانه. و نمی‌دانستم نامزد نوبل بوده. چند سال قبل داستان قنداق را خوانده بودم و انگار همیشه چیزی در من وجود داشت که از داستان‌های ژاپنی و فضاهای رازآلودشان خوشم بیاید. اما در این مجموعه فقط یکی دو داستان خوب هست، یا حداقل یکی دو داستان که برای من کشش داشته باشد و جایی در حافظه‌ام نقش ببندد.
Aliceçardo na sociedade contida do Japão, Yukio Mishima escalpeliza nesta antologia de contos várias facetas da paixão e a sua relação pouco ortodoxa com outros sentimentos e desígnios da vida.Há paixões intemporais e transcendentais que superam a vida, levando a que o desejo pela existência acabe mesmo por cessar.
Há paixões intempestivas face aos sonhos próprios contrapostas com o desprezo pelos desejos dos outros (sempre menores!).
Há paixões cegas que cumprem os desígnios dos votos cerimoniais de juras de amor eterno na "saúde e na doença, até que a morte nos separe".
Até agora não gostava de ler livros de contos por não darem espaço suficiente ao desenvolvimento dos personagens, que é aquilo que mais prezo na literatura.
Na leitura deste livro identifiquei outro problema.
Quando termino algo deste calibre, gosto de virar a página e fechar o livro, e não ficar com a ideia que ainda não terminou, mais ainda sabendo que aquilo que falta não tem nada que ver com o que acabei de ler.
Even more intense and beautiful than I remember, especially Patriotism.
Mişima ölmeden önce "İnsan yaşamı kısa, ama ben hep yaşayacağım” notunu bırakmış.Dört arkadaşıyla bir generali esir aldıktan sonra, seppuku (harakiri) yaparak kendini öldürmeye çalışmış ve yakın arkadaşlarından birisinin kılıçla başını kesmesi sonucu hayata veda etmiş. Sigara (Tabako) öyküsü, kendisi kadar yalnız ve meczup Baudelaire'in "her yere düşerken güneş ışıkları, tükendi gençliğim zifiri karanlık fırtınalarda." sözleriyle başlıyor.'Ölüm' merkezli öyküler ve yaşamı için fazlasıyla umutlu yazdıkları.
Otherwise Mishima’s primary focus is on human relationships, and frequently on their failure to achieve their aims, on the constant misunderstandings which impact on our relationships-a deep sense of cynicism off-set by brief moments of beauty dominate Mishima’s stories;“They noticed at the end of this bleak-looking bridge in the heart of the city a willow-tree, faithfully planted in the traditional manner.
Este livro reúne 7 contos, no primeiro (que partilha o nome com o livro) fiquei desiludida, a situação pareceu-me demasiado explicada, não fui afectada pela tristeza da história.Foi só no quarto conto que o autor me pareceu revelar um pouco da sua magia: suave e delicada.
A história é devastadora, a forma de a contar alternando o doce com o brutal é curiosa, senti que finalmente entendia o fascínio pela escrita do autor.
Terminei o último conto a muito custo e aborrecida com as descrições exaustivas que não me traziam nenhum esclarecimento, a força brutal do penúltimo conto cinge-se a ele e é o único que espero guardar na memória como verdadeiro reflexo deste autor.
Os temas são diversos bem como os sentimentos que deles procedem, desde a melancolia do conto que dá título ao livro, ao lirismo de O Sacerdote do Templo de Shiga e o seu amor, à intensidade do dramatismo operático de Patriotismo (um dos melhores contos que já li), à ambiguidade de Onnagata e à comicidade de A Pérola (creio que foi a primeira vez que este autor me fez rir).
Já era fã do Mishima romancista, fiquei a admirar também a sua arte para a narrativa breve.Morte no Verão - 5Três Milhões de Ienes - 3Garrafas-termo - 4O Sacerdote do Templo Shiga e seu Amor - 5As Sete Pontes - 3Patriotismo - 5 +++++Dojoji - 4Onnagata - 4A Pérola - 4Cueiros - 3
Ler Mishima pode ser ao mesmo tempo a melhor das aventuras e o pior dos tédios...Neste conjunto de contos ficam apenas três na retina, um sobre mortes de familiares na distração da praia, um sobre um monge que se apaixona pela mais bela das mulheres e outro visceral onde um casal se suicida à velha maneira japonesa...
horribly visceral and terrible at times, each of these stories subtly keeps us in the characters' present, often mundane moments. mishima covers the quiet death of children on a beach outside of tokyo, awfully repressed homosexuality in a kabuki theater, and the passing lives of former lovers in japan as they try to reconnect unexpectedly in downtown San Francisco. at once fantastic and reserved, the book is wonderfully moving reading- but the sort of moving that keeps you still. good shit.
its summer time in los angeles. so i know we are all thinking about suicide. if only i was a samurai. if only i had a blade. it would truly cut down on my bus ride from culver city to west hollywood. would booksoup miss me at all?tosh would. he introduced me to mishima. to his videos on youtube and to shrader on dvd.no worries, i'll be in for the tommy chong event tomorrow, but.....
Delicada, todavia de uma grande força e capacidade de nos mergulhar nas emoções das personagens.Este livro reúne três contos: 'Morte em Pleno Verão', 'Patriotismo' e 'Onnagata'.
A primeira história centra-se à volta de Tomoko e Masaru, um casal que perde os dois filhos mais velhos, um menino e uma menina de seis e cinco anos, respectivamente, afogados no mar, juntamente com a cunhada Yasue.
As dores que ainda não sentiam, os longínquos horrores da agonia, tornavam mais aguda a sua percepção do prazer'.Por fim, temos 'Onnagata'.
É um conto maravilhoso e conta a história de Masuyama, que ficara fascinado por esta arte de teatro, em que um actor interpreta sempre papéis femininos.
Suppose I could talk about "The Priest of Shiga Temple and His Love".
I will say that this story made think very deeply on the nature of love and spirituality.
They can spend a whole lifetime consciously trying to attain an abstract spiritual ideal only to throw it all away in an instant of futile passion.
Desire for the unattainable is the one great constant, whether it be for Pure Land or for the ultimate expression of love.
But much more than that, someone who genuinely feels very deeply and allows himself to be swept along by his passion.
Love is his favourite subject in all his novels.
My first foray into Mishima's short stories after having read most of his novels.
A few were a bit inscrutable-- the one about kabuki actors, I'm clearly missing most of the picture given my lack of education in this area-- but others were fantastic.
I couldn't help but grit my teeth through the sepukku passages in "Patriotism," and what could be more jarring than the whole of "The Priest of Shiga Temple and His Love," with its vaguely Temple-of-the-Golden-Pavilion story of Buddhism clashing hard with materiality.
In fact, these two stories might be the perfect gateway drug for Mishima.
The whole collection is worth reading, but these two are essentials.
***.This is a collection of ten short stories previously published in Japan by this renowned writer and translated into English by one of four different translators.
You have to get ready to react in a non-Occidental manner to these tales in order to get their flavor.
The remaining stories rely on the reader being Japanese in order to capture the feelings of the players.
It is usually that way when tales are based on the religions or customs of the native country of the writer.
If there is one Japanese writer that you must read, it is this one – preferably one of his better known novels.
Then, The Great Priest of Shiga Temple appears for the world to see and have pity on him due to his old age, we may wonder how old he is so he might be in his 70’s, 80’s or 90’s as evidenced from this sentence, “His eyebrows were white, and it was as much as he could do to move his old bones along as he hobbled on his stick from one part of the temple to another.” (p.
63)Over time, the priest unavoidably suffers, in which I would like my friends to read by yourselves.
The reason I'm adding my old beloved books is because I simply can not find time to read new ones as life is hectic right now.
Mishima knew his own people very, very well and yet he failed to read the signs and accept them as he tried hard to cling to old ways while most of his fellow Japanese swung towards modernity and the ways of the race that had so brutally defeated them.
They made the right choice as they rose from the ashes of awful death, learned from their victors and thrived.
Mishima believed he had also made the right choice but what a loss.
This collection of nine short stories and one short play focuses on themes of loss, death, honor, superstition, jealousy, motives, and piety.
Mishima’s story about a young couple’s personal, violent response to a military mutiny is about devotion to honor and fidelity.
As Mishima writes, "An onnagata is the child born of the illicit union between dream and reality." As the lives of the three main characters intertwine, their interaction is a kabuki of sorts that plays itself out through misunderstandings and manipulation.My only regret is that I had to read these in translation.
My favourite was Death in midsummer - it kept drawing me back to one of Resnais' films : Hiroshima mon amour, where a woman is afraid to fall in love and be happy because it would mean forgetting the tragedy of Hiroshima - it's not the actual feeling of tragedy, but an imposed guilt of tragedy that keeps her at it.
This is the case too in Mishima's story where a mother is afraid to forget the tragedy of a triple death, and puzzled about why such a magnanimous tragedy did not lead to a madness, to suicide?
This is an extraordinary collection of stories.
In other stories in the collection, Mishima deftly explores smaller dramas: the long aftermath of a family tragedy; disappointed love; infidelity; the results of a tasteless joke upon a group of friends.I especially appreciated the stories' endings; sometimes they involved an unexpected twist, while other times they felt like a measured and inexorable conclusion to the preceding pages, and it often wasn't possible to guess which would occur in any given story.
This gave a nice rhythm to the collection and helped to sustain my interest.
Coleção de contos de qualidade variável, com tons sombrios e trágicos e um pouquinho de humor pro negócio não ficar muito deprimente. A representação negativa das mulheres de Mishima começa a me cansar.Os contos que eu mais gostei foram "Morte em pleno verão", "O sacerdote do Templo Shiga e seu amor", "Patriotismo" e "Onnagata".
Derin analizler ve ince betimlemeler içeren bir öykü kitabı. Öyküler şaşırtıcı bir şekilde ve bıçakla kesilmiş gibi sonlanıyor. Beğendim. "Yaşamımız yalnızca uyarıcı şeylerle kuşatılmış değildir. Yaşam bazen insanı uyutuverir. İyi yaşamayı başarabilen insanlar sürekli uyanık olanlar değildir. Arada sırada kararlılıkla uyuyabilen insanlardır." Yaz Ortasında Ölüm, 3. Baskı, sf: 172
Without doubt my favorite stories are the priest of Shiga temple and Onnagata. I'm really starting to like Mishima even if i have a hard time reading him.
Real interesting stuff going on here and no holding back for Mishima as far as what it is for a human to go through the grieving process of a death.One Million YenI dont know what the hell was going on in that story...minus one star...boo...Thermos BottlesWhat is with napes and white skin?!
Japanese people are weirdos...Anyways, the story would be easier to follow if they changed the Japanese names with Western names like 'Bill' and 'Sally'.
He dreaded where this new emotion might lead him."The PearlUgh, middle aged women bickering over some pearl.
Mishima, derin duyguların kelimelere yansımasını, inşâ eder.V...O an bir yerlerim acıyormuş gibi oldum. Acı, bir sanrıdan ibaret olsa gerek. Kırılgan bir ağırlık dudaklarıma yüklenmişti. O ağırlık yaşam sıcaklığıyla kaplıydı. Dudaklarımdaki kırışıklar tek bir noktaya toplanarak uyuştu ve belki de Tanrı’nın bile görmezden geleceği bir rüyaya dalıverdi.Böylece her nasılsa, başka birinin dudaklarının benim dudaklarımın yerine geçtiğini hissettim.Aralık 1947
Stories in this book are really beautiful, enchanting , and poetic.
There are tons of symbols (culture, politics etc) and implications behind the surface.Some of his stories are quite bitter about the modernization and Westernization of Japanese culture,the trying-too-hard effort to copy Western /American lifestyles of Japanese society during years after being losing World War II.
His stories are really subtle, well, at least for me-I'm not a really keen reader.
Meanwhile, the book is not for my taste , at least, right now.
Well, perhaps, I will enjoy the book much more years later, in different time.
