https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/116971.Busman_s_Honeymoon
While reading this, the fifth Sayers mystery I've read so far, I was finally able to figure out just why I love her novels more than any other mystery writer I've encountered so far: I love Dorothy Sayers because she does everything wrong, but it all somehow manages to work.There are some commonly accepted rules for novel-writing, and detective-novel-writing specifically, that authors have to follow in order for anyone to enjoy/buy their books.
The only people who are going to enjoy this book as fully as it should be enjoyed are the ones who have read all the previous Harriet/Peter mysteries, swooned over every second of their romance, and are dying for Sayers to give up the deets on their wedding night.
This is also the first novel where they work together on a case without being at loggerheads with each other half the time, and I enjoyed witnessing their partnership unfold and bloom on all levels.The secret that Bunter and the Dowager Duchess kept from everyone else was that Lord and Lady Peter (yes, that’s how they are referred to) had purchased a ‘weekend cottage’ in the country and would be on honeymoon there for a month.
Sayers wrote in the Lord Peter Wimsey series.
However, to appreciate it fully I will likely need to allow some space between this novel and the extended series.Busman’s Honeymoon is Dorothy L.
Delighted to please her, Peter buys the house from the current owner, Noakes, who agrees to stay there until they move in.However, what with avoiding the press and organising the wedding, Bunter does not get to visit the house first to make sure all is well and that turns out to be a mistake.
Having now, finally, read all of the Lord Peter Wimsey mysteries, I think was often a moving and romantic read.
First published in 1937, it started life as a stage play in 1936 and, indeed, much of the action takes place in Talboys, or while visiting other houses, so you can get an idea of how it would have appeared on stage.
Right on the first count, definitely wrong on the second.It's true that this final Sayers-penned Wimsey mystery is more a meditation on the ups and downs, joys and negotiations of new marriage (Harriet and Peter manage to sneak off for a honeymoon only to discover a corpse in the house), but the mystery is still engaging (Sayers adds some great twists to the classic "all the doors were locked from the inside" problem) and points toward the ethical dilemmas that seem to characterize the latter Wimsey books.
Ian Carmichael made a surprisingly good Lord Peter, with none of the 'what-ho' exclamations I was expecting, and I enjoyed seeing Peter and Harriet in their newly-wedded bliss which wouldn't have been complete without a mystery to solve.
Apart from the love story and the mystery, Busman's Honeymoon is an interesting reflection of the era in which it was written, with its depiction of English attitudes to class and race (not critical, but descriptive and not the less interesting for that).
(I have an old edition of Busman's Honeymoon - probably printed in the 1970s - with no translations or notes: possibly more recent editions translate the bits which aren't in English?) Anyway, even if it could be considered pretentious by today's standards, I love the French and the Latin...and the poetry with which each chapter starts and which characters quote with abandon.
Wimsey gets married and goes on honeymoon, but can't get away from murder. Too bad for him, but good news for us!
সুলিখিত, কিনতু মোটের উপর, একরকমের বাজে।ডরোথি সেয়ারস তাঁর উইমসি থরিলারদের জনয বিখযাতের বাড়া, আমি অবশয এর আগে তাঁর কলাউডস অফ উইটনেস পড়ে মোটামুটি হতাশ হইছিলাম। এইবারও তেমন কোনো বযতযয় হইলো না। পিটার উইমসির সাথে পরথম নামেধামে পরিচয় কলাশ সিকসে কি সেভেনে থাকতে, বযোমকেশ বকসীর ভূমিকায় সংসারী গোয়েনদার কথা বলতে গিয়ে সমপাদক এনার ভূয়সী এক পরশংসা ঝাড়ছিলেন। মানতে দবিধা নাই, সেয়ারস চমৎকার লিখতেন, তাঁর পড়াশুনাও চমৎকার। পরতি পদে পদে তিনি যেভাবে অপরাপর লেখার রেফারেনস দেন, চসার থেকে এলিয়ট অবদি, ঘাট মানতে হয় তাঁর বি
সুলিখিত, কিন্তু মোটের উপর, একরকমের বাজে।ডরোথি সেয়ার্স তাঁর উইমসি থ্রিলারদের জন্য বিখ্যাতের বাড়া, আমি
(What with this decidedly “pre-globalization” flavor, if Sayers were to return from the dead to write a mystery in the days of Brexit, what sounds would she put in the mouths of her less aristocratic, less educated characters, I wonder?) All this talk will likely try the patience of readers anxious to be getting on with something more criminal than violations of social proprieties.
Which makes one wonder if it took bodies longer to start to pong in 1937 than it does in present-day mysteries.
But I suspect one reads Dorothy Sayers more for the people than the plot.
I'm not reading these Sayers books in any kind of rational order.
Oh, I am in love with this one.
I know just enough of Sayers' biography to appreciate why she would have written this.
One doesn't normally say of mysteries that they are sweet, but the author has done a fabulous job of showing two people who are in love but still awkward in their marriage.
And Buntner's affection for Wimsey is rather touching, in a paternal sort of way.I like the unusual addition of finding out how the detectives in the case deal with the trial and all that afterwards.
(view spoiler)[ Bettie's Books (hide spoiler)]
I love how this continues where Gaudy Night left off, and makes it really very obvious that Peter and Harriet have both made their relationship a choice.
Gaudy Night focuses on Harriet's issues with the relationship, while Busman's Honeymoon is much more about Peter's.
And for the first time, Harriet is the grounding force in the relationship.I just really like the dichotomy of their reactions.We've also never really gotten to seem them being affectionate before, and the way they speak to each other in this is really, really well done.
I can't imagine reading Busman's Honeymoon for the mystery.
I think we might learn more about Peter and Bunter than we do in any other book from how they behave in this one -- but much as I love it, I can completely understand why people who don't have any attachment to the characters (whether through not reading the previous books or just not caring for the character side of things) really dislike it.For those who love the characters, this is lovely, tender, passionate, a little bit harrowing, and funny.
Harriet rather wishes that Peter need not be bothered with all this murder business while on his honeymoon--if only because it will bring the mobs of reporters descending upon them--but soon realizes that his "job" is something they will need to come to terms with if theirs is to be happy marriage.What follows is, as Sayers notes in the subtitle, A Love Story with Detective Interruptions.
But the detective story is not the reason I can read this novel (or any of Sayers' mysteries, for that matter) over and over again.
Not only are they very much in love, they are incredibly honest, communicative, and generous with each other about the adjustment that married life means.
I mean, do you find it good on the whole.
But when one doesn't have to anymore, it's different--I can't tell you what a difference it makes."Harriet's line has stayed with me ever since I first read it years ago, and I sometimes say it to myself--"It's just things that are wrong, not everything." I find it profound.That Dorothy Sayers really has a gift for words.Just a note on the text: There are a ton of classical allusions here, most of which I don't get, as I'm not all that up on Latin and Greek and my knowledge of poetry is patchy.
In the previous one Harriet and Peter have agreed to marry, and this book covers the first few days of their honeymoon, but of course fans want to read about the engagement and wedding.
So Sayers opens with one chapter of excerpts from letters between friends and not-so-friendly people, and parts of the Dowager's diary for the days leading up to the wedding.
(Or is it Gaudy Night?) Sayers wasn't a one-trick writer, all of her books are different.
:) NB - Sayers uses a lot of French phrases and songs in this book, and even a couple of paragraphs from a letter, none of which she translates.
I've never read one of Sayers' books before.
It's not at all what I expected, especially the ending.
From what I've read about these books, I expected "Pip pip", "Quite, old boy", and a main character who was a blithering idiot.
What I got was a real person, not a caricature.
Lord Peter Wimsey loves his new wife deeply, and actually THINKS about how he feels.
His declaration to Harriet is one of the most tender offerings of devotion I've ever read.
Harriet's no slouch, either.
In addition to great characters the story is well told, the mystery engrossing and the murder method ingenious.Very good indeed.
Own and Kindle.Perhaps my favorite LPW to this point.
And overall I thought it a 3.5 star rounded up for the Peter/Harriet conversations upon future sensibilities/ habits/ assumptions they will be making with / between each other.
But I thought the house fixes, troubles, and myriads of associates and repairmen or hires during the first 1/2 of the book- all those long and dialect laden pages of copy- they just lowered the core intensity for me.
And the remorse and the dichotomy of such emotive effusions at the ending of this (more with Peter than with Harriet)- I thought rather odd.
Sayers created a memorable sleuth in the patrician Lord Peter Wimsey, whom she envisioned as a cross between the debonair Fred Astaire and the wooly-headed Bertie Wooster.
Nearly a century later, mystery lovers like myself still enjoy Sayers' mystery novels.That said, Sayers, while enjoyable, doesn't remain as sterling as Dame Agatha Christie.
Modern readers will still thrill to 4:50 from Paddington, The Murder of Roger Ackroyd and Crooked House; Sayers' Gaudy Night, in contrast, turns so cerebral that it's nearly unreadable!
Despite these annoyances, Busman's Honeymoon sports an excellent mystery; I never figured out how it was done until Lord Peter revealed it.
(I do have a soft spot for Mr. Puffet and his jumpers.) The main focus, though, is on the early days of married life for Peter and Harriet and how they cope with the situation, especially the guilt that weighs heavily on Peter when his investigations come to fruition.
Wodehouse once had Jeeves express the opinion that when "a wife comes in the front door, the valet should go out the back." How does he, the companion of Lord Peter's bachelor days, fit into this new household.This is one of my "comfort books" one of the ones I turn to when I need something that I can wrap myself up in to help relieve the stress of everyday life.
They arrive to find that the previous owner hasn't put things in order as he promised, and find out (mercifully AFTER the wedding night) that there's a good reason...This novel was based on a stage play that Sayers wrote with a friend (presumably to capitalize on the popularity of Gaudy Night, the previous Wimsey/Vane book.) You can still, if you think about it, see the original bones of the play's structure underneath the accretion of quotations, letters and inner monologues that glorify The Relationship into something way larger than any real relationship could be.
Wimsey does, at the end, fall prey to the psychological problems that have haunted him since the War, but Harriet, naturally, provides the outlet for his guilt and pain so we're all good.Don't get me wrong, I find this book very enjoyable and have read it several times.
I've always loved him, and I particularly like this book because it is not your average crime novel.Oh sure, you have a pair of newly-weds, an old house in the country, a cast of eccentric characters from the bumbling vicar to the twittery spinster to the police inspector who likes to quote the classics, a battered corpse, clues, red herrings, all rather formulaic, you're thinking.
Lord Peter, described at the beginning of the book by someone as a chattering icicle, hiding his feelings behind a facade for the most part, has been desperately in love with this woman for six years.
The ending in particular means the book NEEDS five stars.Overall, though, there was too much time spent on villagers and I didn't like them as well as I often like Sayers's side characters.
I just wanted to get back to Peter and Harriet!But ohhh, the bits we DID get of them were so great.
(view spoiler)[And seeing the Dowager's perspective was SO IMPORTANT, particularly in regard to Harriet, who has been so guarded about her feelings.
In particular, I'm thinking about Peter and Harriet's courtship and Peter's anxiety.
I THINK in a good way.
I think this is the right way to tell the story.
Dorothy Sayers is wonderful, and this book is an excellent companion volume to Gaudy Night, although not quite so good.
Brilliant, as ever. An intriguing murder intrudes upon Peter and Harriet's honeymoon. Dorothy Sayers knew how to plot a mystery and she made an excellent sleuth in Peter. A very enjoyable reread.
Nothing else matters.” This story opened like a farce compared to the previous serious detective tale, Gaudy Night, however it ends being one of the richest of the series in terms of literary allusions, humor and psychological insights.
“Earnestly hope we shall not have another war with meat coupons and no sugar and people being killed--ridiculous and unnecessary.” (1937)Sayers again assumes a high level of literary among her readers; that they are fluent in French and Latin.
We may talk about class divisions here, but they were never universally accepted.“Harriet … felt depressed, as one frequently does when one gets what one fancied one wanted.”For all the loose ends she fastens, one would think this volume closed the series.
This has always been one of my favourite books in the Lord Peter Wimsey series and I have re-read it many times.
This book started off life as a stage play and as a result the dialogue reads well and I found it easy to visualise the scene as I was reading.
The mystery element is well plotted and very clever and I defy anyone to work out how it was done in advance when they read the book for the first time.
Busman’s Honeymoon, or: the Wimseys will never, ever catch a break.Honestly, despite the fact that it is a murder investigation, this one is fun.
It has plenty of Peter-Harriet banter, plenty of Bunter being the ridiculously amazing manservant that he is, and plenty of heart as well.
Peter and Harriet have finally got married, and they’re letting each other in, and Busman’s Honeymoon sees their first hiccups of married life — where Peter’s work as a detective makes Harriet feel like a traitor to friends who are under suspicion, and they have to decide who compromises… I like Sarah Badel’s version of Harriet, laughing and teasing, but warm too.It’s not just about the relationship, though: there’s a solid mystery at the back of it, which is fun in its own right.
I've had multiple readings of this. Enjoyed it every time. Had forgotten about the three short chapters at the end showing how Peter deals with the aftermath of his cases.
