https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18041.Mr_Mulliner_Speaking
In the Wodehousian universe of absurdly funny happenings, the character of Mr. Mulliner can be seen as the ever-spouting fountain of contentment, bubbling enthusiasm, never-say-die attitude and unlimited supplies of strange amusing stories.
In ‘Mr. Mulliner Speaking’, P.G. Wodehouse presents the reader with nine hilarious short stories narrated through Mulliner, in which his family and fellow club members appear as central characters.
They go away mumbling something about never having thought of that.”The Story of Cedric“The drowsy stillness of the summer afternoon was shattered by what sounded to his strained senses like G.K. Chesterton falling on a sheet of tin.”The Ordeal of Osbert Mulliner“He possessed in addition to good looks the inestimable blessings of perfect health, a cheerful disposition, and so much money that Income-Tax assessors screamed with joy when forwarding Schedule D to his address.”Unpleasantness at Bludleigh Court“’When I first met your father, I thought I had never seen anybody more completely loathsome.
More Mulliner; what's not to love? Absolutely pearling prose, the stunners just keep coming. Hilarious. The mental image of the canary in the cami-knickers will never fade.
The story contains some particularly pleasing turns of phrase from the old master, not least this apt description of Archibald: 'if his brain had been constructed of silk, he would have been hard put to it to find sufficient material to make a canary a pair of cami-knickers'.Also hilarious is 'The Man Who Gave Up Smoking', in which Ignatius Mulliner discovers that giving up the pipe leads to a 'vague sensation of emptiness and bereavement akin to that experienced by the historian Gibbon on completing his Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire'.Elsewhere, yellow shoes, a false wig with blue spectacles and an atrocious game of golf somehow enable Mr. Mulliner's relations to overcome a miscellany of muscular plug-ugglies and recover their heads in time to find true love.The last three stories slightly deviate from those twin themes of beatings and betrothals.

What fun to enjoy a P.G. Wodehouse book as part of my summer reading. No surprises in this book, which follows a pattern that Wodehouse relies on, but pure enjoyment results.
At the Angler's Nest, Mr. Mulliner tells his amazing tales. Here you can discover what happened to The Man Who Gave up Smoking, and experience the dreadful Unpleasantness at Bludleigh Court.I'm gonna add a quote by Stephen Fry that describes this book to perfection : "You don't analyse such sunlit perfection, you just bask in its warmth and splendour."Wodehouse, like his famous character Jeeves, stands alone.
Another in Wodehouse's Mulliner cycle. I love Jeeves and Wooster, but just can't get on with Blandings, although I keep trying. Mulliner, however, is a joy. If you like Wodehouse and haven't read them, then you are in for a treat.
I simply cannot get enough of Wodehouse currently.
I beg my friends pardon if I slip into an accent currently.
I cannot help myself.I know Wodehouse is appreciated still by many, but wonder how many get all the jokes as we edge onwards a century later?
As do I wonder what percentage that I get, but I admit to be laughing out loud often.As an example from these stories:“The drowsy stillness of the summer afternoon was shattered by what sounded to his strained senses like G.K. Chesterton falling on a sheet of tin.” That is priceless.
Mr. Mulliner isn’t a character so much as a framing device. Each of these stories opens with a page or two set at the Angler’s Rest, where the good-natured but long-winded raconteur Mr. Mulliner sips his Scotch and lemon and launches into a tale. Each one is awash in romantic misunderstandings, wild schemes gone awry, social functions that end in disaster— you know: Wodehouse stuff. And not a one of them fails to charm or to generate laughter. A most worthy collection from one of the great writers.
Charming. My favorite was the story I already knew: Unpleasantness at Bludleigh Court, but they were all fun stories. I did have a twinge or two when I noticed some things that could possibly be hints of racism here and there. But I haven't read enough of his work to know if that's really the case, or I'm just over sensitive. Time will tell.
For some reason, I was in the mood for Plum, and I was delighted to find this in the audiobooks. I'd read most of these before, but it was so pleasant to hear them read in that posh British accent. It was almost as good as the John Alderton/Pauline Collins version I saw on BBC. But not quite. :)
Entertaining stuff from the Master. Loses a star for some weak entries in the middle, but the opening story featuring a Baconian aunt, the strange bloodthirstiness at Bludleigh Court (with hilarious poem) and the three Bobbie Whickham stories at the end are things of beauty and joys forever.
Enjoyed and really loved the golf story.
I do love Wodehouse, but the extraordinary scrapes that his characters find themselves in are utterly wince-worthy. Nevertheless, hearty guffaws were had often.
Absolute delight! The very best of Wodehouse!
Great fun! Includes three early Bobby Wickham stories - I had no idea she was related to Mr Mulliner.
Funny, although not as good as the Jeeves books.
In the bar-parlour of the Angler’s Rest the efficient barmaid Miss Postlewaite was asking if the world had possibly had it’s fill of the Mulliner family after reading the first volume ‘Meet Mr Mulliner’.
Despite this it is still a terrific read and ‘Mr Mulliner Speaking’ follows on in very much the same way as ‘Meet Mr Mulliner’ and in very much in the mould of its predecessor is a huge success.
This book also contains the Wodehouse debut of Bobbie Wickham, whom later becomes a menace to Bertie Wooster, in three of the better stories.
Mulliner is a story-teller, and a skilled one.
His stories are about upper-class twits, and the women they fall for or flee from.
Such as, "You felt as you saw him that if this was the sort of chap who lunched at Claridge's, old man Claridge was in luck." Or "[he] had only once been moved by anything in the nature of a really strong emotion - on the occasion when, in the heart of Bond Street and at the height of the London season, he discovered that his man, Meadowes, had carelessly sent him out with odd spats on."It's dry, low-key, veddy British humour - even when the situation is pure slapstick.
The Mulliner stories are less well-known than the Drones Club or Jeeves or Blandings; so, if you don't know the Mulliner ones and you like other Wodehouse, haste ye to them.
Mr Mulliner dominates the conversation at his pub with stories of his relatives who don't move in the same circles as the characters mentioned above but have adventures and ventures just as amusing to read about.
BTW The Best of Wodehouse: An Anthology has some of the Mulliner stories.
It also has some Ukridge stories, just as deserving.
Try "A Bit of Luck for Mabel" as an opener on Ukridge.
A very clever set of stories by Mr. Wodehouse, all of which are 'narrated' by Mr. Mulliner, the Sage of Anglers' Rest. I believe 'The Ordeal of Osbert Mulliner' was my favorite (the story is of a young man who is threatened by one man to be killed if he marries a certain girl, and threatened by another man to be killed if he does not marry the same girl), but the three stories about Roberta Wickam's unfortunate suitors were also quite hilarious.
Several classic tales told by Mulliner (hot scotch and lemon) involving various relatives, including 3 stories about his cousin's daughter, Roberta (Bobby) Wickam, who is always landing other people in trouble, whereas she generallt comes out unscathed. Did Wodehouse purposely choose 2 last name of an Austen character of ill repute for this spirited but self-centered girl? Hmmm. A fun read.
The premise is Mr Mulliner telling the gentlemen at the club about the follies of his young relatives. The outcome is a collection of short stores in which Wodehouse riffs on the love story. They start off relatively straight forward -- boy meets girl, girl has no interested in boy, boy tries to win her affection by changing, hilarity ensues, girl falls for boy because of his true nature. Later in the book, though, things get a bit more complicated -- and even funnier.
Obviously the writing is peerless. The plotting is sometimes a bit too visibly mechanical, though it seems harsh to object to that - I've read that PG's plotting was generally excellent, from people who should know, writers and such, but I can't imagine who would read Wodehouse for the plots. But the stories are ideal bedtime reading, short enough to read one in half an hour, and will send you off free of the day's cares.
Variable short stories based in a pub, where an old fellow tells tales about various relatives of his who get into messes, usually because they are totally gormless and put-upon. Some of the stories are very good indeed and others merely average.This was a reread from many years ago. Not as good as the Blandings or the Bertie and Jeeves stories, but amusing on the whole.
Read so far:The reverent wooing of Archibald. --The man who gave up smoking. --The story of Cedric. --The ordeal of Osbert Mulliner. --Unpleasantness at Bludleigh court. --Those in peril on the tee. --Something squishy. --The awful gladness of the mater. --The passing of Ambrose. --
I prefer this second batch of Mulliner stories to the first.The humour that P. G. Wodehouse was so good at crops up in many different guises."The Story of Cedric" is my favourite tale in this collection.
Not the best of the Mulliner collections but it gets four stars anyway because it includes one of my all time favorite Wodehouse stories, "The Unpleasantness at Bludleigh Court." The three Bobbie Wickham stories are also quite good.
The usual great Wodehouse. In a series of anecdotes, Mr. Mulliner's relatives manage to preserve or scuttle engagements, while shooting old men with bb guns and climbing from the windows of aristocratic country home on ladders made from knotted sheets.
