https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/127390.Talk_Before_Sleep
Talk Before Sleep is a novel about women and about the bonds between them.
It is a story about friendship, personal growth, fear, love and faith.
Berg writes the book from Ann’s perspective, but manages to share the hopes and fears of every woman in this circle of friends.
You just try to do it.” (Talk Before Sleep, page 114) It is passages like this one that totally absorbed me into this novel.
“I don’t think I’m coming back, though.” “But I want you to,“ I say.
I read this book when it was first written and then again a few years ago.I gave it to my mother to read as well as a few friends.
I was interested in the friendships of the women in the story and now that I am older I feel I relate even more to the issues surrounding them.
The feelings of love the friends have for each other will strike the hearts of those readers lucky enough to have friends like these women.An excellent book that will stir up all your emotions.
Beautifully written story.Highly recommended.
This is a novel about two middle-aged women, Ruth and Ann, best friends, one of whom is dying of cancer, the other of whom is taking care of her.
The scenes regarding Ruth's cancer and Ann's caretaking were sometimes beautiful and wise.
The flashback scenes were typical women's fiction stuff where they complained endlessly about their husbands and how trapped they felt in their marriages, while giving no indication that they'd ever attempted to have honest conversations with their husbands as if they were actual human beings.
But, uh, like I said, the cancer stuff was good.
Elizabeth Berg is an expert at writing dialogue between women, and expressing how women draw strength and understanding from their close female friends.
In "Talk Before Sleep" Ann Stanley is helping to care for her best friend, Ruth Thomas, in her losing fight with metastatic breast cancer.
She is joined by three other friends of Ruth who each offer support in their own way.Ann is a former nurse, a quiet woman who is devoted to her family.
When Ruth is facing death in her early forties, Ann is dreading losing her best friend.
But that is not too important since the spotlight is on the connection that female friendships provide.
I'm not sure why I picked this book up from the library. I thought this was going to be about female bonding and the nature of close female friends... unfortunately, it was a dramatic (although probably accurate) look at one woman's friend dying of breast cancer. Neither women are particularly endearing, however; there's nothing inspiring about their plight pre-cancer, and Berg's writing doesn't help either. I'd be better off reading Sisterhood of the Traveling Pants again.
This would make a great fictional counterpart to Gail Caldwell’s  Let’s Take the Long Way Home  and Ann Patchett’s Truth and Beauty, books that celebrate the strength of female friendship. Ruth, a divorcee with a college-age son, is dying of metastatic breast cancer and Ann and their group of friends have become like her substitute family, trading overnight shifts at Ruth’s house and bringing her extravagant treats like ice cream and lobster with McDonald’s French fries to distract from the pain
and Ann Patchett’s Truth and Beauty, books that celebrate the strength of female friendship.
Ruth, a divorcee with a college-age son, is dying of metastatic breast cancer and Ann and their group of friends have become like her substitute family, trading overnight shifts at Ruth’s house and bringing her extravagant treats like ice cream and lobster with McDonald’s French fries to distract from the pain and lethargy.
It’s a simple but wrenching story, and it’s not surprising that Berg wrote it after losing a close friend to breast cancer, to “testify to the emotional truth of all that happened.”
Short and oh so sweet and moving. The bonds between friends becomes evident when Ann cares for Ruth, her long time best friend with breast cancer who is in her last days before death consumes her. There are many funny conversations but the heart felt conversations are real and poignant. Life and marriage and motherhood are touched upon and this is a book to be felt deeply.
It's a story told by Ann in first person about her best friend Ruth who is dying of cancer.
My problem is that the story and characters left me cold.A note from the author says the book was inspired by the need to express the "emotional truth" about her loss of a "very important friend" to breast cancer.
Despite Berg's claim that this was grounded in her personal experience, I also found it hard to credit someone within weeks of dying of the disease would be able to pig out on lobster and fries.Besides which, I find it hard to be moved by a story of a dying friend and her immortal friendship if I utterly despise the character.
The thing is, I have watched the slow death of someone I love and I think Berg probably has as well.
"How is it that we dare to honk at others in traffic, when we know nothing about where they have just come from or what they are on their way to?""I remember the exact order of the canned soup in the cupboard, and then I think, well, it's probably been changed now, and that terrifies me.
I thought of my sister breathing out of this world so softly and leaving me desperate to have one more conversation, one more laugh.


This was the second Elizabeth Berg book I have read. A co-worker was moved by this book and recommended it. I just don't seem to connect with this particular author. Especially with this topic, I didn't feel as much as I think I should.
As I mentioned above I am thinking a lot about death, my loved ones but also my own and I was a bit scared this book would make me more anxious but in a weird way it helped.Plus the fact that this is also about women and their relationships with other women which is a subject I always love to read about, this book probably was right for me.
I want to read more by this author.Some highlights I made from this book(view spoiler)[* Women do not leave situations like this: we push up our sleeves,lean in closer and say: "What do you need?
Your typical two best women friends - one is outgoing, free-spirited & artistic, the other is quiet, reserved & safe.
The fun one gets a terminal illness, the safe one narrates.
The does a beautiful job of telling a story without overdoing it, and painting a picture of what it's like to love someone who's dying without doing the experience the injustice of making everything neat and predictible.
Having worked in hospice for the better part of a year, this novel does a brilliant job of presenting an experience to the reader that is hopefully not familiar to most of us, but is very real.
There's a scene in here about Ann preparing a fussy, precisely made breakfast for Ruth, who is sick.
Ruth aggravates Ann by sending her back to the kitchen to improve the meal.
And then when the perfect meal is brought back to the bedroom, Ruth admits she's too sick to eat, and insists Ann eat it.
Ann does, and you see that she needs to do this for herself every now and then: a perfect breakfast, with white linen and a rose alongside.
Ann says, "I want more.
I want someone to know I was here." Ruth says, "But you have to start with yourself.
In this heartbreaking novel about love and letting go, Ann chronicles the powerful story of her best friend Ruth's struggle with breast cancer: from diagnosis, to denial, to fear, and finally to acceptance, as well as sharing her own experience in coping with the tragic truth and nurturing her friend as best as she can.
The heart of the novel is a celebration of the wonderful friendships that women share.
I would recommend this to all women who appreciate the value of female friendship, and especially those who are dealing with or have dealt with cancer or terminal illness.

Hard to say which is more depressing: reading this book or seeing a beloved household pet get run over by a car.The Hartford Courant calls this book "A Triumph". A triumph over what? Joy? Happiness? A direct quote from the book: "I haven't yet let myself feel how grateful I am to be back in my own bed, but I know it's coming. And I know I'd better get ready. Because feeling good will feel awful." The writing was fine, the sentiments expressed intelligently, but for crying out loud! --Literally! For crying out loud!
What an incredible book.
Ms. Berg just made the emotion of losing a dear friend to breast cancer so real.
This was a book of incredible friendship and love.
It reminded me how important it is to be happy in the moment, to find joy in the people in your life.
I loved the quirky characters, they were all so real by the end of the book.This was just an amazingly beautiful book.
Everytime I feel a breeze, I'll be reminded of this book and of the eternity of friendships and our ties to those who've already gone on ahead of us.
This is one of my favorite books of all time. It's a little gem. I gave a copy to my aunt after her sister died of cancer. She loved it. I highly recommend it.
Have you ever stopped to think of who you would want to be with you in the final weeks of your life as you know you're dying?
Have you ever thought of who you would be willing to put the rest of your life on pause for so you could spend those final weeks of their life with them?Talk Before Sleep is interesting to examine the dynamics of women's friendships.
And what should we think about how close women friendships can affect a woman's marriage and immediate family?
(I know, I'm weird like that) Or maybe read the book.
I have read this book about 10 times.
I have given this to friends and never gotten back and then bought it again because I have to have it in my "library".It's a book about friends, three friends, who are drawn closer because of one friends illness, cancer.
She was in KC once and I went and listened to her as she read part of a book that was coming out.
I haven't read all of her books, but have read about 6 or 7.
They are thoughtful and can make you cry.This is a book about cancer so remember that fact.
This book enabled me to survive and HONOR my lovely sister Leslie's journey through ovarian cancer.
She also read the book long before her diagnosis.
When she got the message she was terminal I told her I would be her "talk before sleep".
She knew exactly what that meant and that I would honor her talking about death.
READ this WAY BEFORE you need this and please be sure to honor the ability to share someones journey to leaving the ability to be physically present here on earth.
I will never forget this book.
This book is not for you if you are looking for adventure and great plot twists.Berg tells you before the book begins "Not long ago, I lost a very important friend to breast cancer. I wanted to write about my experience in a fictional way, to create characters and events that, although imagined, would testify to the emotional truth of all that happened."I laughed and cried through this book. I called my best friends to tell them how very much I loved them. I loved Berg's celebration of the sacredness of the ordinary.
This is one of my favorite books...and Berg is one of my favorite authors. I came across this book when my friend was in college--she was minoring in drama and had to do a "dramatic reading" from this text. I've read it and even listened to it on audio many times...and it never fails to bring me to a place of both overwhelming sadness and sincere thankfulness for my life and the people who have graced it. The pureness of the emotions in this book cleanses me. I feel emotionally drained, yet utterly fulfilled after reading it.
If you have ever lost a loved one who is also a dear friend to cancer, specifically breast cancer, pick up Talk Before Sleep next time you are at your local library or bookstore. With the turn of the pages I laughed and smiled, and I also cried. It helped me in a unique way to deal with the grief I still have over the death of my lovely and wonderful Aunt Diana last fall. Berg manages to put into eloquent words so many situations and feelings that just ring true. Highly recommended.
I like Elizabeth Berg in general, but this book didn't move me. I know I was supposed to have empathy for at least one character, but they were all so shallow and one-sided that it was hard to care. I thought sending the character with cancer -- whose name I can't even remember now, which tells you a lot how memorable she was -- out of the narrative at the end was a cop out. All in all, I felt this was a weird, uncomfortable book.
I don’t think I enjoyed this book as much this time, and perhaps that’s because I am much closer in age to the characters now than I was 20 years ago. The reality of this plot is much more imaginable now. I’malso a far more critical reader now, and I felt the author relied on dialogue too much. I wanted more. And yet, like so many of Berg’s book do, I felt propelled forward to read quickly to the end, and do felt satisfied in the day it took me to read this one.
I have such a soft spot for love stories between friends, especially female friends. Not romances, love stories. Because there are so many women in my life that I love deeply, and we don't talk about that kind of love enough.
Oh just Oh! Good thing I read this on my nook because a paperback would be completely soaked. My new all time favorite
