https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/286229.The_Stainless_Steel_Rat_Wants_You_
There was more than enough silliness in this book to achieve my aim.Just like in War of the Worlds, Earth is being menaced by cephalopods of all shapes, sizes and degrees of sliminess.
James Bolivar DiGriz (Slippery Jim, the Stainless Steel Rat) is called upon by the Special Corps once again to save the universe!
Some very irreverent antics ensue!I probably read this too soon after The Stainless Steel Rat Saves the World, and I think Harrison was running out of good ideas at this point, so I didn't find it quite as much fun as previous books.
The fourth book originally published in the Stainless Steel Rat series, this one has plenty of humor and a plot that bounces around a bit.Angela is kidnapped by the galactic IRS, then rescued by the Rat and their sons, James and Bolivar.
Then Slippery Jim is waylaid into finding out why a satellite full of admirals disappeared, and uses time travel (again) to help.
Whew!In this tale we consider Moral Philosophy, male chauvinism, parallel dimensions and three overarching control groups (the IRS, the Morality Police and the Time Cops).
The time travel gimmick is now officially overused, and I hope that the sole responsible scientist manages to escape for a long vacation.
Originally posted on SpecFic Junkie.If you've read any of my other Stainless Steel Rat reviews, you'll know the drill: this is larger-than-life, over-the-top pure skiffy goodness that's a self-aware parody of Golden Age Science Fiction.
Because, you know, the Japanese are cold, authority-driven, and have a huge superiority complex.Now, I think Harry Harrison might have attempted to subvert this a little because the grey men end up being the key to the human race's salvation (but of course they are the ones who set up said destruction) but it ends up being a white savior plot.
Each time, the Special Corps traps him and sends him off on a fast-paced, dangerous mission that usually involves saving the galaxy in some way.This time aliens are invading, so Slippery Jim, with the help of his beautiful and deadly wife and their delinquent teenage twins, infiltrates their lair by disguising himself as an alien who wants to join their army.
How could he possibly know that his alien costume is so sexy that he’ll have to fight off male suitors while he’s trying to save the galaxy?The Stainless Steel Rat Wants You is another entertaining offering from Harry Harrison and narrator Phil Gigante.
Though his thieving ways are not yet behind him, Jim diGriz is firmly entrenched as the top agent in the Special Corps, that feared branch of the law headed by the most notorious criminal of all time, Harold P.
Inskipp.When his wife is kidnapped by the revenue service out of their current home on the planet Blodgett, Slippery Jim leaps into action, gathering up his two teenage sons from their military boarding school (and penitentiary) to spring mom and wreak havoc on the tax bureau at the same time.
As is often the case with his adventures, personal conflict often leads to bigger problems, and Jim diGriz soon finds himself commandeered to save humanity from galaxy-wide destruction.Sounds simple, eh?
Slippery Jim DiGriz is off on another interstellar adventure.
This time, the Special Corps needs him to save the human galaxy from invading aliens.
With the help of his now adult twin sons and his beautiful, and cunning, wife Angelina, Slippery Jim is able to infiltrate the alien ranks and undermine their masterminds.
Unfortunately, success is not quite in reach when the Morality Corps, a super secret group that, apparently, has more authority than the Special Corps, continuously disapproves of all Jim's schemes to rid the galaxy of these pestilential aliens.
In the end, a compromise is sought (in the do-first-and-ask-for-forgiveness-later spirit).
SciFi humor. I quite enjoyed the first five books or so, but in the end the laughter starts wearing thin. I gave up after “The Stainless Steel Rat Goes to Hell”. Those I have read are: The Stainless Steel Rat The Stainless Steel Rat’s Revenge The Stainless Steel Rat Saves the World The Stainless Steel Rat Wants You The Stainless Steel Rat for President A Stainless Steel Rat is Born The Stainless Steel Rat Gets Drafted The Stainless Steel Rat Goes to Hellhttp://www.books.rosboch.net/?p=817
I absolutely fell in love with the Stainless Steel Rat series. They are goofy, fast paced, and humorous sci-fi books. It was my first introduction to Harry Harrison and also my first time ever reading a comedic sci-fi book. I loved both of them immediately.
Another in the stainless steel rat books. They are all quick reads with alot of humor in them. The stories remain fresh and new. Very recommended, especially to teen readers or someone new to SiFi
It's the usual tongue-in-cheek fun that starts with Angelina being kidnapped and ends on a very cold planet where every hand is turned against our intrepid hero.But a stainless steel rat can never be counted out until he's dead (and then don't count him out then).I enjoyed the story as much as the other Stainless Steel Rat stories.
I wish they'd republish the series or publish them in eBook format so more people can enjoy these timeless tales today.
Mine sit in my library so I can take them out periodically and enjoy them over and over.
So, in this chunk of Stainless Steel Rattery, Slippery Jim must battle hordes of aliens bent on eradicating mankind.
Leaving to one side whether or not mankind actually deserves it, this is a very humorous romp through space in much the same way as Jim's earlier adventures.
This hit my funny bone a lot more when I read it as a teenager, but it's still highly enjoyable.
HH tells his story in a light hearted, irreverent way, supported by his wife, Angelina, and now adult sons.Now re-reading the entire series start to finish, this one is the best of the older novels, and much better than the newer prequels.
Great fun adventure with the rat and his family as they try to stop an alien invasion. Some standard rat shenanigans with the added loop being that he's now working with his family and has the to look out for which adds some wrinkles to his escapades, although he circumvents this for a large chunk of the book by going off and having solo adventures. Some great parodic elements of Golden Age SF with some more modern elements thrown in.
Meh. I felt like Harrison was really phoning it in on this one. Basic SSR storyline - humorous science fiction with the usual plug for Esperanto. Also, the additional layers of secret organizations seemed played only as a plot device/comic relief.
Their culture is very Nazi-like, with schools being used to teach propaganda that Kekkonshiki-ans are the master race and they will use their survival skills to conquer the universe (they were abandoned on an icy inhospitable planet and survived by suppressing their emotions and becoming 100% rational).
This is very much like the end of fighting between Japan and the US during WWII, as the Kekkonshiki realize that to keep fighting would be suicide and Hanasu convinces them to reapply Moral Philosophy to the situation to save their lives instead of becoming an empire.
by Quinn The Stainless Steel Rat Wants You, is one of those books where you never really stop reading it even if you aren't literally reading it at the time.
On the other hand, The Stainless Steel Rat is not world famous, but definitely amazing.
The Stainless Steel Rat is directed more towards boys than girls, but like all things it depends on the person.
Now that the stainless steel rat has finally settled down (note the five other books) and is fighting (and doing) minor crime, a Navy satellite disappears and he is charged with finding it......
Don’t get me wrong, it is still an enjoyable romp and I probably liked this one more than the previous novel “The Stainless Steel Rat Saves The World”.
However, it is just more of the same and there is probably only so many times you can enjoy following these parodies of golden age sci-fi novels before beginning to get a little bored.Overall, this is another entertaining novel in “The Stainless Steel Rat” series that should appeal to those of you have who have already read the previous novels.
It almost feels like a merciless mick-take of Doctor Who and is all the better for it.It also benefits from having Angelina and the other of the diGriz twins kidnapped by the alien nasties, neatly removing the danger of having Jim bailed out by the missus another time too many.And when you have fully embraced the absurdity of it all – which Harrison makes it all too easy to do – and you’re sitting back and enjoying the ride, that’s when it hits you with the big twist and we’re suddenly dealing with a darker (let’s say greyer) foe.
They also kill without hesitation, and they do so on the basis of an equally irrational repugnance.This, it turns out, is because they have been propagandized--by a group of humans who feel they have been abandoned by, and cannot be reconciled with, the rest of humanity.The solution is obvious, I should have thought--but it takes the rather dimwitted humans (The Stainless Steel Rat and his clan are a tad quicker, but not much so) quite a while to think of it.
It's amazing, really, that the Stainless Steel Rat has even as much trouble as he has.
Did anyone notice that the author crossed a serious line in his otherwise amusing banter?
The Morality Corps boss being made fun of was named "Jay Hovah." "Jehovah" was the Old Testament's name for God that was so sacred that the Jewish people wouldn't even say it out loud.
It isn't just offensive to conservative Jews and Christians to mock that sacred name, it is considered blasphemy, a serious charge.
Sorry, Mr. Harrison, but that crosses a line in the sand for me.
[Webster's Ninth New Collegiate Dictionary says of blasphemy, "1 a: the act of insulting or showing contempt or lack of reverence for God".]
I'm not even sure I read the original trilogy with a full awareness that it was intended as humorous sci fi, so I may have missed the point of these books in general.Having said that, I found the humor in this book to fall flat most of the time.
Although some of the darker humor worked for me(view spoiler)[like the grey man trying to form a suicide pact with Slippery Jim (hide spoiler)].
I won't say much about the plot, other than it works well enough for a light, funny sci fi adventure.
The adventures of a Stainless Steel Rat?
Well, sort of, at least he thinks so.I read this a long time ago but still remember it.
Harry Harrison manages to keep his sense of humor intact as he tells the adventures and misadventures of the Stainless Steel Rat, intergalactic thief.
THis is a cleaner (tighter?) story than "Bill the Galactic Hero" (also Harrison) and more of a pure story than satire (like A Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy, Asprin).
It's a fun read, fast moving and several books to the series.
I think this book may have influenced other works, or maybe how we see other works, that work humor through science fiction.
I love Slippery Jim diGris.
He is one of my favorite characters.
Harry Harrison does wonders with this character and the universe that he lives in.
And his sons are a welcome addition in The Stainless Steel Rat Wants You!.
As for the aliens, this is the first time that aliens have been introduced into this universe.
Are they ruthless?
Are they cruel?
Do they want to kill all the humans?
Well…yeah.
The Stainless Steel Rat Wants You!
Let me just say this, welcome back Slippery Jim. We missed you.I rated this book an 8½ out of 10.
Vival la Rat! Another rollicking chapter in Harrison’s Stainless Steel Rat series, The Stainless Steel Rat Wants You keeps up the pace and the quality. Slippery Jim sure seems to drink a lot more in this one. Maybe it’s a sign of his maturity. His sons play a role for the first time and the lovely Angelina is ever present and ever capable. The comedy is as well done as the action and the pacing is excellent. I’m definitely glad I decided to re-read this series. It’s been a real treat.
No idea where that description came from. The Slippery Jim adventure I read...errr...listened to (great narration Phil Gigante) saw Angelina kidnapped/arrested by the intergalactic IRS. The twins helping their papa with the rescue. And the. Whole fam heading into unexplored space to infiltrate an alien armada. James saves the day - naturally. There's punchy one liners, time travel, a brief stint in a parallel universe, a visit from J Hova, and the origins of the Gray Men are reveled.
Всички извънземни в Галактиката са се обединили в смазващ алианс, чиято единствена цел е унищожаване на човешкия род, всички хомо сапиенси трябва да бъдат избити до крак! Горките извънземни, те не предполагат, че Джим ди Гриз и неговата Анджелина горят от желание да им покажат това-онова. Откъде биха могли да знаят, че синовете на Стоманения Плъх току-що са завършили военна гимназия и са нахъсани още повече и от родителите си?
I read the Stainless Steel Rat series when I was a kid, and thoroughly enjoyed it (I couldn't resist it since I was also a 2000AD reader, where the Stainless Steel Rat was given the graphic serialisation treatment). I'm giving it 3 stars because I suspect that if I re-read the series today I wouldn't be quite so captivated. Great stuff for younger sci-fi fans though.
Slippery Jim is up against his most dangerous enemy ever. The Taxman! The Interstellar Internal & External Revenue has his wife and he has to rescue her. Oh and there's an alien invasion to sort out also.A fun book, and with Jim and Angelina's twin sons now teenagers they join their parents on the adventure. Four of the diGriz family on the case means four times the adventure.
Prohnaný Jim diGriz je již usedlejší pán. Největší jeho starostí je nyní výchova velmi podařených dvojčat, která jsou těsně za prahem dospělosti – Jamese a Bolivara. Není ale všem dnům konec, do důchodu stále daleko. Planetární Lize hrozí opět velké nebezpečí, tentokráte útočící z dosud neprobádaných končin vesmíru…
დროში მოგზაურობა და პარალელური სამყაროები მომაბეზრებელია უკვე. გავიგეთ წინა წიგნში და გაასწორა და ახლა ყველა პრობლემაზე დროის მანქანის ჩართვა უკვე მეგოიმება. 3.5 ქაჩავს მხოლოდ იმიტომ რომ ჯეიმსი და ბოლივარი არიან ძალიან კარგი პერსონაჟები.
Funniest thing ever. A total potato-chip book, and it doesn't take a bunch of brain cells to read, but it's good for a laugh. Who else has champagne in their emergency survival kit but Jim DiGriz? NO ONE!
