https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/207330.Gay_Neck
Obviously, you are attempting to read all the Newbery Medal winners.
Moreover, as you experienced this book, you quickly realized that it is terribly boring.
I'm not sure that this is anything to be proud of- you have read a book with no expectation of enjoying or benefiting from it.
Isn't that the opposite of what reading is supposed to be?In fairness, I should mention that the last third of this book is better than the first two thirds.
(A nictating membrane as defense against mustard gas?)If, like me, you are persisting in your Newbery quest, then I wish you well.
My next Newbery read is about roller skating in the 1890s.
Proposed titles include:Iridescence-Throated: The story of the pigeon who ran away a lotWhich Colorful Bird?: A story about everything BUT the pigeonPigeon Rocks India!: The story of a rich boy, his famous bird, and some random hunter who keeps showing upOf course, a new edition will never be published because this is one of the most fantastically boring books you will ever read.
perhaps Gay-Neck's story was actually the story of man and Mukerji wanted to teach his young readers how to be free and live without fear.
This novel, written in 1928 for children, by a man born in Calcutta, is intense, to say the least. Gay-Neck is a carrier pigeon whose "odyssey" unfolds over several years, as he learns to fly, trains for war, mates, falls into a great funk, and finally comes into The Wisdom of the Lama. Pretty deep stuff, but simply and sweetly told. The illustrations/prints are superb.
And while it is usually considered a WWI story, it is really much, much more than that.Born into a Brahmin family, Mukerji had raised pigeons growing up in Calcutta, India in the early years of the 20th century just like so many boys his age and caste did at that time.
Gay-Neck’s young master (like Mukerji himself), has the leisure time and money to spend on raising his flock of pigeon’s, living in a two story private home with a flat roof for the pigeon coops.
How do we manage to think that we know all about an animal by gazing at him penned in a cage?It would be interesting to read comments from young readers.
This is so different from today's teen fiction that I think few kids would actually finish the book.Goodreads provides this info about the author:"Dhan Gopal Mukerji was born in a small village in India in 1890, he was passionate about bringing understanding of the Indian people and culture to American readers through his own unique brand of expressive and poetic language.
The war years and the change in lifestyles driven by technology had to have been hard on him.
What a bizarre choice! The reader knows almost nothing about the human narrator and very little about the setting; it really is "the story of a pigeon", but not even an anthropomorphic pigeon, for the most part. It's sort of mesmerizing, and is full of Buddhist wisdom. The story picks up about halfway through, and the episode where the pigeon has post-traumatic-stress disorder is interesting. The illustrations are beautiful.
I have only found an excerpt and I doubt I will ever choose to read more than that excerpt.

This book was written in 1927 and given a Newbery award in 1928.Written in the english of a man from India, it details the story of a young Indian boy who owns pigeons.
One pigeon in particular, Gay Neck, surfaces as a particularly talented flyer and becomes the prize bird in the young boy's flock.
The young boy, Gay Neck and a good friend take a trip to the lamasery to learn more about Gay Neck's condition and whether he will ever fly again.
I particularly liked the quote at the end of the story:"'Whatever we think and feel will colour what we say or do.
A life story of a carrier pigeon from World War I from the perspective of the pigeon's trainer.Recommended 10+ for mentions of World War I.
If we cannot perceive any right proportion of man's moral nature by looking at prisoners in a jail, how do we manage to think that we know all about an animal by gazing at him penned in a cage?""I am not sorry that the bull died.
Fear flees from you, Hate flees from you, And suspicion flees from you.""If you take a map of France and draw a line from Calais south almost in a straight line, you will come across a series of places where the British and Indian armies were situated.
Gay-Neck, the Story of a Pigeon is one such book.
I picked it up because it is on the Newbery list, and it is one of only two books thus far that I truly disliked.
I was reorganizing my books for storage (sad, I know) and I saw this one, and decided to write my review now and get it over with while I was thinking about it.
...The book is about a young boy in India who trains pigeons around the time of World War I.
Later in the story however, we get to hear from Gay-Neck himself as he goes off to war and a few other places as well.
It is a reference to the pigeon's colorful neck, and can also be translated as iridescence-throated.) Mukerji and Gay-Neck have a lot of adventures and scrapes with death in the Himalayas, and Gay-Neck is also sent to France to serve as a messenger pigeon with the army during World War I.
I liked the fact that Mukerji was a curious and reverent observer of the natural world.
There was also a lot I didn't like about this book.
(Although actively hating a book can make it more fun to read.) Wouldn't recommend this Newbery winner.
Interesting story that has several parts.
Part of the story is told from the viewpoint of the pigeon, with some of the same kind of animal interpretations that are seen in Bambi: A Life in the Woods.
A lot of the pigeon training stuff is rather mundane, and a little bit of hawk vs.
pigeon goes a long way.
However, I found a few of the accounts pretty hard to swallow - various strangers remember seeing one particular lost pigeon flying by?
The larger theme of the book is about fear, and it's interesting to consider this in light of its interwar publication.
I loved the wonderful black and white illustrations which look like they might have originally been from wood block carvings.I also especially liked it when Gay-Neck himself talked in the story, I wasn't expecting it and I thought several things he said were interesting and fun, for example:Speaking of geese, he said, "Compared with them, we pigeons seem paragons of cleverness."Speaking of swifts, he said, "Our women enjoy equal rights with men, but the female swift has always the larger part of the work to do."And I found it interesting that, "Peacocks and tigers admire one another."My favorite quote is from the "words of wisdom" at the end of the book - "Whatever we think and feel will colour what we say or do."
So. Gay Neck seems like a fine little dude, bird, pigeon.
I have no problem with him.
He's heroic, and that's all good.
But I just began to LOATHE the narrator, Gay Neck’s owner.
He goes and directly or indirectly kills Gay Neck’s siblings, his mom, his dad, sells Gay Neck, and puts him in countless really terrible situations.
(Maybe I’m biased because I have birds?) When there is no love for the narrator, it is kind of hard to like the book.
But hey, you learn several times that if you have no fear, your enemies can’t kill you.
This was a really great story.
Written in 1927 it gives fascinating details of training pigeons but in the course of the story.
A boy in India has a pigeon that he trains and then becomes a carrier pigeon for the Allies in WWI.
The story is told in an engaging way with quiet wisdom from holy men he encounters in his travels.
There are also interesting stories of travels in the jungle, a hunt for a mad buffalo, and the way to heal from fear.
I was surprised to learn that I really enjoyed this Newbery Medal winner, because I hadn't expected to like it.
Well, this book was certainly a step in the right direction. Mukerji writes about raising pigeons in early-20th-century India was lyricism and humor. By today's standards, the book lacks thrills and narrative arc (it's kind of boring), but the unusual subject matter and Mukerji's descriptions of the mountains and jungles of India make up for it. I found the switching between POVs a little odd and contrived at times, but so far this is the earliest Newbery I've read that comes close to creating complex and dynamic characters--one of which is a pigeon.
I read this book when I was fourteen. We found it in the library and thought it was funny because of the title - Gay Neck?? A pigeon?? But the title is the best part of the book because the rest of it is literally the life story of a pigeon. Not all that exciting. I mean, exciting for a pigeon. Not that exciting for a human reading it.
Newbery Medal Winner--1928.I would have liked this one if the whole thing were actually from the pigeon's perspective. Those chapters/sections were the most interesting and entertaining...but unfortunately they were few and far between. Too much rambling and side stories that didn't seem relevant.
2.5 stars rounded up to three due to the fact that it is still much better than the last few Newbery books (and about equal with Doctor Dolittle) and that it was better than I expected for a book about a pigeon.
I'm glad I have a friend like Jon Bridge who encourages me to read books with titles such as this.And, for the record, I'm pretty freaking amazed that this was written in 1928 and it's this well done. Impressive.Now suddenly ruse the cry from many house-tops: "Gay-Neck! Gay-Neck! Gay-Neck!"
This book wasn't what I expected-which was a book about the training of carrier pigeons and how this one was involved in the war, but it was good. I enjoyed the insights into Hindu philosophy and the overall message.
I'm beginning to wonder if the Newbery Committee of the 1920's and 30's hated children. Actually, this wasn't nearly as horrid as Dobry - it was more boring. I was pretty stoked that the word 'bivouacking' made an appearance. Twice.
I found Gay-Neck, The Story of a Pigeon, the most interesting of the early Newbery Medal’s I’ve read so far, barring The Voyages of Dr. Doolittle.
There’s also only so many times Gay-Neck can disappear and his owner wonder if he’s dead before all the suspense is drained out of the event entirely.Gay-Neck is definitely a step up from previous Newbery Medal winners, but despite its lavish and loving descriptions of India and Indian culture, it’s not particularly exciting or enthralling.
One oddity is that the pigeons don't mate, they get married and are referred to as Mr. and Mrs. The boy has two friends, Radja, a young Brahmin priest and an old jungle guide named Ghond, who also assist in the training.
That takes them near the Himalayas and to a Buddhist lamasery where the pigeon meets up with some swifts and they journey together, the story recounted from Gay Neck's POV and involving eagles, hawks, and some stupid geese.
When WWI breaks out the boy sends Gay Neck to war; he's too young to go himself, but Ghond goes (in spite of his age and his familiarity with jungles rather than cities and modern things) with the bird.
But if you're really into birds/pigeons, India and the Himalayas, then this book is definitely for you.
It's pretty well-written and very descriptive when it comes to the environment/nature/culture and the predators in the wild (eagles, tigers, leopards.)If I had to describe this book I'd say it's VERY cultured, which is why I give it 2 stars because I didn't completely dislike/hate it.
Although the writing style can be engaging it was a little too descriptive; felt like a lot of INFO and I'm more interested in character driven stories.
I see this being a more interesting audio book; reading it out loud might have made it more entertaining.
However, as an adult, I found wisdom in these pages.p. 55 " no animal, nor any man, is attacked and killed by an enemy until the latter succeeds in frightening him.
He who allows himself to be frightened lets himself be killed."p.173 "our fear frightens others so that they attack us."p.
190 "Real death is preferable to living death."The discussion of fear and how others sense it, prompting them to attack, was very interesting to me.
Maybe it explains why some are bullied for minor differences while others with even bigger differences are ignored or tolerated.
Bullies do seem to sense fear before they attack.
The story itself was basically interesting, but I didn't like the way it was told.
I felt like Makerji was talking down too much -- the way pre-school or early elementary teachers talk to students -- which is totally appropriate when talking to someone that young -- but I didn't feel this was a story for kids that young.
I also didn't like when he told the story from the pigeon's perspective.
The thing that made me go to 3 stars instead of 2 was that there were some profound lessons a couple of places during the book.
Synopsis: In India, many of the young boys grow up training pigeons that they grow to love and recognize.
It wasn't uncommon for boys to have flocks of 40 or more pigeons that they train to always return home and carry messages.
It was awarded the 1928 Newbery Medal.
It is interesting to me how many of the early Newbery Medal winners were books about animals (see: Smoky the Cowhorse and The Voyages of Dr Dolittle).
If you want to learn about carrier pigeons then this is the book for you!
