https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/47994.The_Last_Continent
"Are we all here?" said Archancellor Ridcully as he surveyed the assembled wizards.
This is our cue to think synergistically and proactively, exploit our first-mover advantage and -"As he never tired of explaining to the other members of Unseen University, The Seven Habits of Highly Effective Wizards had turned Mustrum Ridcully into a new man.
Darwin.""Thank you very much for your valuable contribution," said Ridcully in a tone that clearly indicated the subject was now closed, "but as I was saying, Australia.
Amusing synonyms for 'throwing up' -""No, but really, sir, let me explain!" said Stibbons.
"Evolution's funnier than you might think!
Pratchett Goes to Australia28 October 2015 I have to say that when I have read books, or seen TV episodes, by people from foreign parts where they try to satirise Australia I have generally been either unimpressed, or downright insulted (as was the case with the Simpsons Episode where the Simpsons come to Australia, act like a bunch of jerks, proceed to insult everybody, leave an infestation of cane toads, and then go home). As such I was approaching Pratchett's book with some trepidation due to
Pratchett Goes to Australia28 October 2015	I have to say that when I have read books, or seen TV episodes, by people from foreign parts where they try to satirise Australia I have generally been either unimpressed, or downright insulted (as was the case with the Simpsons Episode where the Simpsons come to Australia, act like a bunch of jerks, proceed to insult everybody, leave an infestation of cane toads, and then go home).
"You call that a knife?" The giant unsheathed one that would be called a sword if it had been held in a normal-sized hand.
"This is what I call a knife!"Mad looked at it.
I liked the wizards!Here is an excellent adventure in a land of kangaroos, boomerangs, odd brown food paste, and the occasional platypus.
They'll even give you a head start...From the Librarian's mysterious shape-shifting malady, to more inflammable cows, to the wizard's interesting attempts to build a boat (without a how-to manual!), this is one of the better Discworld adventures.G'day!
Steve Irwin, Crocodile Dundee, Tasmanian Devil, and Olivia Newton John sit enjoying Vegemite sandwiches and discussing Terry Pratchett’s 22nd Discworld novel, The Last Continent.Steve: Crikey!
Get away from Anhk-Morpork and Quirm and Klatch and far, far away you’ve got his Last Continent, the one made last, still being created, Ecks Ecks Ecks Ecks, or Down Undah on the DiscworldDevil: Raarararrraagh!Dundee: I nearly finished me slab while reading and I also thought that we got to learn more about Rincewind and what an odd bugger he is, but also a hero in a ripper sort of way.Steve: Pratchett has the wizards from ole UU go and fetch Rincewind from the far away Ecks Ecks Ecks Ecks and we get an Aussie adventure!Olivia: Fair Dinkum!
The Last Continent is the sixth book in the Rincewind subseries of Discworld.
For me, this was one of the more average Discworld books.
You see, something has happened to stop the rain and apparently Rincewind is the only one who can set things right.
There was plenty of humor as usual, but not as much that really made me laugh out loud.
Actually, until reading this book, I didn’t even know that “no worries” originated in Australia.
My Kindle educated me with a relevant Wikipedia entry when I highlighted one of the many, many occurrences of “no worries” in the book.
I enjoyed this book. Am I coming up the raw prawn? Nah, mate. I enjoyed it. 'Strewth. Grab your woolly jumpers and a bowl of pie in pea soup and enjoy it.Last Continent is a fun, Australian-reference fueled Pratchett classic. Recommended for all fans of Rincewind.No worries.
Is this how Egyptians react when they read about Djellibeybi in Pyramids?I remember when I first moved here, middle of Summer, endless days of 40c heat, not even remotely a hint of potential rainfall and then one morning it just hammered down with rain for a few minutes and the roads turned to rivers and everybody seemed to panic a bit.
Muddled around a bit with a storyline that turns Ponder Stibbons in to Darwin.
It's a lot of fun, nowhere near as offensive as it might have been considering it is a Rincewind book about a different culture, and happily now out of the way so I don't have to dread reading about Rincewind in Australia any longer.
No matter what your level of Australiana is, though, you probably know at least enough to get a lot of enjoyment out of this book, Terry Pratchett's homage to the strangest continent on Earth.Now keep in mind, Pratchett does state quite clearly that this is not a book about Australia.
It's certainly interesting, and I suppose the god's island is a nice echo of the real Australia, where evolution has had a long time to tinker and come up with some really weird stuff, but in terms of the story, it's not all that important a plot point.
Anyway, I just finished The Last Continent and I am a bit confused.Yes, I figured out that it was set in the Discworld version of Australia.
Most of Rincewind’s page time was spend poking at Australian stereotypes in not so clever ways.Please don’t hang up sir, I am sorry.
I know you can’t be on fire all the time.No need to be defensive sir, I know there are tons of people who loved this book.
Ok, I got it.Was there any kind of coherent plot I was supposed to following in this jumble, confused mess of a book?Hello?Hello?Terry?3 Stars.
Ha sido entretenido, pero no me ha llegado tanto como otros libros del Mundodisco.La trama se me ha hecho algo pausada y en ocasiones me daba la sensación de que no estaba sucediendo nada, a parte de pequeñas cosas sin importancia e influencia en el argumento general.
Además, hay momentos en que los diálogos se hacen muy confusos porque no sabes quién está diciendo quién (aunque a esto ya estoy bastante acostumbrada, pues forma parte del estilo de Pratchett).
Se comenta una vez y se ve la pirámide con los rayos y las luces por encima, pero ya no se vuelve a saber nada más.
This was the first Terry Pratchett book I ever read.
Formerly, as I have described in my review of Good Omens, I believed that Gaiman was the funny one and all of the good bits in Good Omens came from him.
And how wrong I was!I read this the next day, on my flight home.
I'm giving The Last Continent an "Amazing" because I owe my love of Pratchett to it, but there are others I'd recommend before this one.
I was a little lost at times because I had no background on any of the characters, so it's probably not the best choice for a first Pratchett.
And while Rincewind is off having a miserable time on EcksEcksEcksEcks, the other Wizards bumble 30,000 years into the past and mess everything up, as usual.There's also a running gag with the Wizards being gross to a lady that I did not appreciate (by treating her more like a precious thing than a person, which is admittedly better than other options).
I realize this is done on purpose for satirical purposes, but I still didn't like it, and normally Pratchett has awesome lady characters to make up for his idiot men characters but here it's just the Wizards and Rincewind and a magical kangaroo, and Mrs. Whatsherface is just there.
Currently re-reading this with my son who is here on a visit from London, England. It is just as much fun the second time around :)
This is one of the few Discworld books I hadn't read. It wasn't a favorite, but even okay Pratchett is like 10x better than most authors.
He reminds me so much of Bill Bryson, author of In a Sunburned Country and many other wonderful books.[return][return]Ponder Stibbons, another of my favorite Discworld characters because he is so logical and reasonable and reminds me of one of my favorite real life people, is trying to explain to other wizards why they can't willy-nilly mess with the past;[return][return]"You might...tread on an ant now and it might entirely prevent someone from being born in the future!" "Really?" said Ridcully.
I'm a Pratchett fan and have been for years.
In general I love his writing and humour.
I find it remarkable that his writing varied SO much between two books about the same character.
Having read Colour of Magic not long after it was published I have a soft spot for Rincewind.
Not long ago I read Interesting Times and frankly it was pretty poor.
It is very funny at times and has some decent story lines too.
I'll continue to explore the "have I read that one" Pratchett books whenever I get the chance.
3.5*
We meet characters such as: Rincewind, Luggage, The Libarian, DEATH and Mustrum Ridcully.
In the book we go on another great adventure with Rincewind (the wizard who can't quite spell wizard) and his faithful companion Luggage, this book can be read as a stand alone book which is great if you havent managed to track down all of the series yet.
This is a great book for young adults and adults, it is sure to make your imagination stretch and expand.
It is one that is also very hard to put down and step away from, you are sure to find yourself back reading it.
I've kept reading this book but still, things didn't go better. The story is a mess, maybe I should have started from book one...
Pratchett, clearly an admirer of all things Australian, unleashes his perennial anti-hero, the inept wizard Rincewind, on a remarkably similar continent.
Meantime, Pratchett's 23rd Discworld book, Carpe Jugulum, appeared in Britain in November 1998 but has yet to make it to the States.
Not only that, but Pratchett fans in search of early Discworld novels will have to order the books from the U.K. Odd that the God of Marketing hasn't rushed to fill that particular, um, niche.------------------Note: This review was subsequently included in an anthology,  Contemporary Literary Criticism.
Това беше една от малкото непрочетени от мен книги на сър Тери Пратчет и останах за пореден път възхитен.
Тя е само смътно австралийска.“ Поредната история от Света на Диска изпълнена с хумор, премеждия и напрежение до последната страница.
С всяко следващо изречение, пародията на света, в който живеем, плашещо оживява и кара читателя да се замисли в какво всъщност вярва и какво всъщност се случва.
Не липсват и обичайните академични дрязги, така характерни за света (и не само) на магьосниците.
Всичко това е разказно по начин, който само Тери Пратчет може да предаде толкова леко, приятно и безумно смешно.
The Last Continent is Terry Pratchett’s 22nd installment of Discworld, the sixth to feature his first main character (Rincewind), is the location that most of the action in and around the flat world is centered but while the last built it happens to have the oldest land as well which has interesting effects on a wizard search party looking to find their lost colleague.
Both storylines take a bit to finally get going and some of the jokes were told too many times, but once the stories were going along the tiring jokes can’t impede the reader’s progress only annoy them.The Last Continent is an example of a really good Rincewind book as Terry Pratchett uses his first main character’s unique traits shine and enhances a very well written narrative.
It seemed that this time there was a greater density of pure Pratchettism than I remembered.
Completely hopeless at anything except fleeing, which he does about at the same level that Cohen does barbarianing (as Cohen says, for a barbarian to be eighty years old he has to be pretty good at what he does).I particularly admired how TP took perhaps thirty pages to set up a truly dreadful joke, ending in "What kind of bird would stop at a bush for a quick smoke?" That's when I become sure he was deliberately writing in flat-out seltzer-down-the-trousers mode.
'Are you saying that before you apply for the job of housekeeper of a university you should seriously consider being eaten by sharks on the shores of some mysterious continent thousands of years before you are born?''She didn't ask many questions at the interview, I know that.'Another book featuring Rincewind and the senior faculty members of the Unseen University, and set in EcksEcksEcksEcks (the Disc World equivalent of Australia).
The wizards were civilized men of considerable education and culture.
When faced with being inadvertently marooned on a desert island they understood immediately that the first thing to do was place the blameWizards, time-travel and Australia jokes.
I still find witches preferable to wizards in terms of likeability, humour and characterization.
This book felt longer than it really is, due to randomness and mostly non-existent plot.
I really dig Death, but even so, his appearance in this book just added some (unnecessary) pages.
It was boorish at times.
It's funny and witty, and I like my books to be funny and witty.
At the end of Interesting Times, Rincewind landed in Australia XXXX. Which is hazardous to his health. Meanwhile, the Librarian started to change form randomly, and they realize that Rincewind might know his name, which they need. So we have the stories about their search, and Rincewind's adventures, mostly guided by a kangaroo. It involves some interesting temporal effects. Also a desire for good ballads, a drunken bet, the danger of talking about the weather, shipwreck, paintings on stone, and much more. (Death actually stops by for a few companionable words with Rincewind en route to work.)
Nice way top spend my day off ... reading another Terry Pratchett book.
I was about 80% through before I recognised the actual plot had started, with everything before being a seemingly random patchwork of farce and arse events, and while this almost seems fitting with the 'timey-wimey' theme in the book, it makes for some un-urgent and, at times, dull reading.
It's not unlikeable, it's still entertaining and it can be funny, but like  Moving Pictures and  Soul Music, Pratchett seems to scream 'behold, a reference!' before holding up a 'Laugh' sign to the reader.
I've never been to Australia, which Terry Pratchett says this book is nothing about by the way, but after reading this I think it would be fun to venture over there.In this one Rincewind is at his best.
Someone is looking out for him, even if it isn't Rincewind himself!The funny thing is, he has not learned that the harder you try to run away the faster you get to where you do not want to be.
Terry Pratchett at his best!Sadly, I am ending the Rincewind series with this one.
Además hay un argumento secundario acerca del Bibliotecario que a final de cuentas termina siéndo sólo un recurso para poner en marcha lo que le ocurre a los magos de la Universidad invisible en este libro, aun cuando parecía como una trama más interesante que todo lo que ocurre con Rincewind aquí.El país del fin del mundo es el primer libro de Discomundo del que no me daba curiosidad que iba a pasarle a los personajes (quizás se deba a que hay pocos personajes secundarios interesantes) y en el que muchos de los chistes y juegos de palabras no terminaban de parecerme del todo graciosos; de allí que sientiera terminar de leerlo como una obligación, lo cual es una gran decepción.
