https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/106197.Becket
In a conversation with a nobleman, the French King, Louis, Henry's cousin, states, "Mon droit a faire le courtois s’arrête a l’intérêt de la France et l’intérêt de la France est de faire toutes les difficultés possible a l'Angleterre" (My duty to be courteous stops with the interest of France, and the interest of France is to make everything as difficult as possible for England), a sentiment that I'm sure De Gaulle would have agreed with.
(view spoiler)[Bettie's Books (hide spoiler)]
It consists of a series of scenes from the lives of the two men, which are bookended by Henry, naked before the cathedral altar performing penance for Becket's death.Anouilh isn't particularly interested in historical accuracy, and there are a number of errors, such as Henry referring to his father as a king.
(One of the themes which interests Anouilh is the relationship between conquerors and conquered.)Henry is presented more sympathetically than Becket, who is made clever but cold, obsessed with the idea of honour (not his own, but first the King's and then God's, and meaning not something chivalric but the preservation and extension of their rights).
Roughly, Murder in the Cathedral, in French and without the poetry. It's still very good. Anouilh's big thing was saying No, and here he gets plenty of scope to work with that theme.
و يسوق لنا الكاتب في سطر لا يكاد يتخطي بضع كلمات وجه نظر بيكيت في تحوله ضد الملك او كما كان يعتقد الملك انه انقلب علية هذا لا بيكت كان يعتقد انه لا يمكن ان يخدم الملك و الرب في وقت واحد و كان اختبار بيكت بالطبع لجانب الرب ثم استمر في عرض صراع الاساقفة و الباباوات في ذلك العهد مدفوعين باطماع الملوك انفسهم سواء انجلترا او فرنسا هذا و الجميع في الاصل يقر صلاح شخص بيكيت و انة ليس شخص سىء يعمل هذا كله لأطماع شخصية ..اعجبتني جدا في بداية المسرحية عندما كان بيكيت و الملك اصدقاء ان قال له الملك ان سر تفوقة عليهم و تمدنه و تحضره ان نصفة من اصل شرقي عربي حيث ان امه عربيه ...
About halfway through and this isn't doing much for me at all.
Becket is actually the second encounter I've had with Jean Anouilh (my review of the first encounter is here).
I was satisfied with Anouilh's skill the first time around, so I did have some high expectations of this play as well.
I love it when my expectations are completely met.
First thing's first: historical accuracy is not Anouilh's thing, although I think it's also not his style and therefore would be amiss of him to fulfill.
Instead of having accuracy, Becket turns a lot of its attention towards raw emotions, the realness of changing relationships, and character development.
The relationship between Henry II and Becket is just....
Short and sweet, a play about the friendship and power struggle between an English king (Henry II) and his friend Becket who turned against the king in favor of the catholic church so the king had his former friend murdered.The king and Becket had been best friends for a long time when the story starts.
So the king feels betrayed and the battle begins, a power struggle between the church and the king.I don't know if there is history to back up this story but it was entertaining.
It's still a good play, even if one knows nothing of English history.
3.5*Great cast but I think that I liked the 1964 film with Richard Burton & Peter O'Toole based on this play better.
At the beginning, he has the job of the hand to the king, and like the king he is extremely irresponsible and has an excellent time with him, and before the end he is crowned archbishop and sees to his duties protecting the church from the uncontrolled power of the king.
KING You'll wait a long time, then!BECKET Yes, I'm afraid I will.A pause.
In short, I may just like it because it has my name spelled correctly in the title, but the book Becket is excellent and fascinating to experience.
It stands today as solid story-telling and good theatre but it is not a particularly deep play.
It is no wonder that it translated easily to Shepperton Studios - it is film scripted from the start.It is also easy to see why it was popular in both France (with its minor key echoes of issues of occupation and collaboration) and in England (where concerns about playing one's role and hiding one's true nature in service were very much part of the imperial and wartime legacy).
I really loved the automaton feel of Becket, too, like a robot who knows how to feel but doesn't, or can't, or won't admit that he can, even to himself.
Seeing that the play is named after him, I wish there had been a little more room for him to get fleshed out, because his sea change after he becomes Archbishop is a little sudden - a little out of the blue - though that's what Henry thought, too, so maybe...
I need to re-check out the movie so I can watch that incredible final scene between them and scream at them to MAKE UP FOR FRICK'S SAKE, YOU NEED EACH OTHER.
If you have never seen Becket, the movie, with Peter O'Toole and Richard Burton, you must.
It's based on this play by Jean Anouilh that I had never read.
I ran across the LA Theaterworks production on Audible and gave it a try.
Wonderful production and play.
If you can, get a copy of the printed play to read along with the audio.
Everyone knows (or should know) the story of Henry II and his stormy relationship with Thomas Becket.
Another great movie related to Henry II is Lion in Winter, also with Peter O'Toole.
Becket and King Henry II of England are carousing buddies, the best of friends.
Until Henry makes Becket Archbishop of Canterbury.
Henry is taken aback to discover that Becket takes his new post so seriously as to give away all his riches, to take on the mantle of poverty, and to feed the poor.
One might think Becket would be amply rewarded for his good deeds.
The author does well to show us a time of grinding poverty, where laws prevent commoners from rising above their misery, ignorance, and hatred.
The author veers from history in making Becket a Saxon instead of a Norman.
I must confess my ignorance - although I do admire Anouilh I didn't know he had written a play about Becket, let alone quite a famous one.
I'm currently fascinated my medieval culture and saints, so as soon as this play came to my attention I ordered it in and read it at one sitting.
Like all Anouilh it is incredibly elegant, poetic, witty and worldly-wise.
He doesn't interrogate his characters too much - he just exposes their actions and words: Becket retains a charismatic mystery to the end.
I will definitely track the film down now too, and will keep watch for any theatrical productions.
Jean Anouilh's "Becket" is a captivating play about duty and honor, friendship and faith, and the abuse of power. I thought the text would be a little dense and difficult to get through, but Anouilh's dialogue it witty and so engaging. A really great script that raises fascinating questions.
Never forget it, my prince.
This audio version is good, even though it seems as if Beckett has a lisp.
I read this play my senior year and I loved it. Very well written. I'll definitely read it again.

There is no certainty that Henry expected Becket to support his position that the church and its clergy must be subservient to the crown.
Nevertheless, the general mood and theme of the play and film are correct: Henry wanted Becket to support his view, Becket refused.The following are some other facts and explanations: Becket was born around 1119 and assassinated as shown in the film in 1170.
It is generally believed that Henry did not explicitly order Becket’s murder but used words that could be interpreted as such.
The Normans mistreated the Saxons for many years as depicted in the film, and the Barons and clergy were Normans.
The relationship between King Henry II and Thomas Becket is complex yet painfully simple.
We read about these two people who have grown up together and we know they can both see the storm awaiting them.
What I found very effective (and I don't know if this is historically true) is the characters very different personality types.
The emotional King Henry and the masked Becket make a compelling and heartbreaking duo.
Most people know it and if you don't, it will make the read even better.
Also FYI the movie with Richard Burton (as Thomas Becket) and Peter O'Toole (as King Henry II) is phenomenal!
This is an outstanding study of friendship between King Henry and Becket, and its eventual breakdown over the conflict between church and state.
Anouilh creates vivid characters, with his portrait of Becket particularly nuanced as he submits to and supports Henry while still searching for meaning (or honor) in his life.
The play highlights the underlying tension between the Norman Henry and the Saxon Becket.
The first two-thirds of the play is thoroughly engrossing with the brilliant interaction between Henry and Becket.
As Henry and Becket become more distant from each other (physically and spiritually), the play understandably weakens.
Cette pièce se lit d'une seule traite, grâce à la plume fluide de Jean Anouilh.
Son sens impressionnant de la mise en scène, qu'il détaille à chaque instant, ne tombe pas dans le piège communément tendu, et n'encombre pas le récit.
Au contraire, il rend le texte plus vivant, et se libère de l'emphase théâtrale qui m'a toujours gênée dans la lecture de pièces.
Je pense que je n'ai pas tout saisi, par manque d'intelligence, certainement, mais j'ai beaucoup aimé l'humour subtil et l'incroyable énigme de ce Thomas Becket.
Il n'est cependant pas à la hauteur d'Antigone, ma chouchoute pour toujours.
I'd be hard pressed to choose whether I like the play or the film better - they both succeed so well in their respective mediums. There are a few moments from the play that I wish had made it into the movie for the sake of the characterizations, but for the most part the movie is a spectacular adaptation that improves on the source material.
I feel like nothing really happened in this play, but maybe I missed something? I just didn't really care about any of the characters, and felt like most of the interesting things happened offstage in between scenes. Maybe if I actually saw it instead of just reading it, I would feel differently. I'm going to watch the movie soon, so maybe after that I'll get it.
King Henry II positions his friend Becket as a religious leader and the plan backfires. The friends become rivals as the situation deteriorates. This compelling story is both historical, and it weaves a friendship tested by circumstances. The back and forth of power and how it is exchanged is well done. Recommend.
This Lola’s seems more about Henry Plantagenet than it is about Thomas Becket. I thought the patters character to be somewhat Galatia’s and nondescript. Is there anything lonelier than a man-child in power?
After having enjoyed the film version with Peter O'Toole and Richard Burton, it was a pleasure to finally be able to enjoy the original version by Anouilh. A very enjoyable read - and one that has now prompted me to go back and re-watch the film! A great period drama.
