https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/59815.Irish_Hearts
Please people, don't think irish people are like this.
The "heroine" came across as being from the back end of beyond not having a clue about anything.
Don't mind her being a virgin - we all were at some stage and me, being Irish, was probably one a lot longer than most, especially as I am Catholic along with that.
I never read another Nora Roberts after this.
read the first story and could not finish it.
"A curse on you, Travis Grant" ...
c'mon, any self-respecting Irish woman would turn around and say "Travis, go f**k yourself, you assh**e".
One of my all time favorites is Three Fates and Irish Hearts definitely has the same feel to it.In Irish Thoroughbred, Adelia aka Dee can't fight her attraction for Travis Grant any more than she can fight her need to find a home and belong.
(Travis does have an ex that tries to make trouble but it was very short lived.)In the Irish Rose the story is a bit more angsty and with a lot more push and pull between Erin and Burke.
Towards the end I was feeling for both Burke and Erin - they wanted the same thing they just had a hard time expressing it to each other.
Both are safe reads - very sweet and classic Nora Roberts!
Nope. BEYOND awful. Ditched it 50 pages in. I got this at a used book sale and was fooled by the 2011 date on it. That's the REPUBLISHED date. These are actually from 1981/88 and ridiculously dated. Take your grown-ass woman who is written like a 12 year old of low intelligence and the boorish man who bruises her with 'love' and boot them right back to the 80's, thanks.
I really liked the first book. The second didnt book didnt really catch my attention till almost half way through it.
Want to know this book in a single word?
that is "Boring." There is no humor, no adventure and most of all no villain.
The story starts smoothly with "Adelia" or shall I say a "Child" because in the whole plot the male protagonist "Travis Grant" has referred her like that.
Both parts of the novel contains the same plot with both the Irish Girls, the Horses, the Stables and the "Tough Looking" men.
It was more like a kindergarten story than a Historical Romance.
Though I appreciate the writing style of the author- minimized background details and more conversation- still it lacked in many points to grab a reader's attention.
This book contains her first novel, Irish Thoroughbred, and its sequel, Irish Rose.Irish Thoroughbred – Adelia Cunnane leaves Ireland for America to work on a horse farm with her uncle Paddy.
Travis who is quite tall, is always patting her on the head like a child.
Irish Rose – I liked this story much more than the first.
Adelia, Grant, and their children go to Ireland to visit with family, and also bring along a business associate of Grant’s, Burke Logan.
Mysterious Burke strikes a deal with Erin that she can work for him doing bookkeeping at his stable in America.
I love a story with a happy ending, and I have a friend who loves Nora Roberts.
Well, actually, it seems like half the world must love Nora Roberts.
I have heard that her character development is rich and that her stories are exciting.
The character development went something like, "She's a spirited Irish lass who came from nothing.
My major problem with Irish Thoroughbreds, however, is this: There is a scene in which the hero rescues the heroine from the clutches of someone who is about to rape her.
The hero then proceeds to physically dominate her throughout the rest of the novel.
Irish Thoroughbred  : 3.5 stars Irish Rose : 3 starsI just don't feel the romances were realistic in both novels, but especially in Irish Rose. Both marriages were rushed, and both men not admitting that they loved their wives until the end was annoying.
I'm not usually into this type of romance but I'm on an "Irish kick" right now, so this intrigued me. Typical Norah Roberts romance with sexual overtones. Two stories about two Irish girls who both come to American and get involved in the American racetrack world. Very interesting.
included Nora Roberts 1st book. enjoyed both books. each was really almost a novella, only about 180 pages long. both were centered around thoroughbred horse farms and included a trip to the Kentucky Derby. good, fun stories.
There were some off-putting comparisons between Adelia and a child. She is a grown woman even if she is small in stature.
I could barely finish the first part. Awful.
Loved it!!!!! Very well written and my goal is to obtain the relationship Travis and Dee have.
06/2016travis n dee r by far my favorite. all fire n passion. edges n bruises08/2013
great book by Roberts. I love the interwoven characters in both stories. Also, I liked the fact that there was very little bad language in this book and most of what was there were Irish curses rather than what we typically think of. I find myself swept up into the ferver and excitement of the Kentucky Derby(which I've never attended in real life) and the character of Uncle Paddy became dear to my heart. I highly recommend these two stories to fans of good romantic stories with strong-willed women in them and a bit of the green hills of Ireland
I normally love Nora Roberts but this was definitely not a favorite. I couldn't stand Irish Thoroughbred at all. She was way too "innocent and virginal" and Irish Rose was better but still I couldn't get behind these heroines and I didn't fall in love with either man the way I usually do.
Liked the second story better than the first, it is dated, the way the men treat the women, but still a good mix bringing the first characters into it.On to book three......we will see how it wraps up.
Awful! Both these novels make Irish women look incredibly vulnerable and stupid as well as desperate. I'm just reading the rest of the second novel because I started the book and I always finish a book no matter how awful and painful it is to read.
Very early Nora Roberts, and it definitely shows -- I don't know that I would really recommend these books at all, but at the same time, it's interesting to read them and see her style begin to emerge.
First time i try this author. I loved her first published novel. The heroine was funny and the relationship with the hero well -developed.
I don't think romance novels are for me.
Nora Roberts always does it - she takes my heart away in these books!
Sweet little romance stories about a good little light reading
Not into horse books. Returned to book exchange.
set in US, nothing special Read first two then quit
NR's first book is in here and you will be amazed as I was!
Sweet little romances but the characters were a bit one-sided. Enjoyed 'Irish Thoroughbred' more than 'Irish Rose'.
Quick easy read. Really drew me in to the stories and relationships quickly. I wish the first book would have been a bit longer, but loved that they characters carried over to the second one.
I enjoyed the first book in the duo more than the second, but not enough that I'll read it again. Both were pretty rapey, with the first including an actual attempted rape. I had to really push myself to finish the book. It was full of comments like "I take what I want" and physical domination (not the "we're doing this because we both want to and have consented to it like adults" kind). The men are rich and domineering and the women are wholesome helpless virgins. There are infinitely better Nora Roberts novels, skip this one.
Where their relationship goes from this rushed and arranged marriage, is of course, the heart of the novel.In Irish Rose, Travis and Dee Grant and their children make a trip back to Dee's homeland, along with a friend, Burke Logan, owner of neighboring farm Three Aces.
There is never any doubt that the main characters in each novel will end up together forever, expressing their undying love for each other before the last page of the book.Irish Hearts is a great read for any diehard Roberts fan.
