https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/295169.The_Wind_Singer
You know those books you read as a kid that kind of stayed with you, but you can't remember the title?
It was as good as I remembered it, and left me with nostalgic fuzzies to boot!Obviously, I'm a bit biased in this review.
This book was part of my childhood, albeit a very small part, and taking what I've just said, you can be pretty certain that this review will be kind of gushy and biased.
The setting, the word, the richness of sand that I can practically feel, and the characters.
The world had such charm, and character.
What few people know is that there's a fantastic well-written and beautifully put together fantasy series that begins with the horrific results of what happens when a society bases all decisions on testing.
In a book that is simultaneously wise, beautifully penned, and deeply moving, "The Wind Singer", gets to the bottom of rigid test-based communities and show us a great worst-case scenario.Aramanth is a community that loves its tests.
That is, until the day little Kestrel Hath decides that she doesn't want to live in a world based on testing anymore.
In fact it was so strange I could hardly relate to any characters as they and their situations were so unbelievable.but let me start the things I did like.
So its up to our 3 heroes to retrieve it!I liked the city of Aramanth descriptions where exams are everything and everyone must sit the same exam in order to get a rating which will determine theirs and their family's status in society and where they live.
Huh, he probably realised what a crappy job he'd done and decided he wanted out lol.I would not recommend this book to anyone over the age of 12 as the young and unbelievable characters are more likely to appeal to children and young children at that.
Instead, the wind singer seems to hold much the same function as a deus ex machina, except that instead of solving a problem within the story, it's used to kick the whole thing off.Then we get into the first chapter, in which we meet the Hath family, and which starts with a string of nonsense words that we soon discover are intended to be cuss words.
The Haths, Hanno and Ira, have raised their three children, the twins Kestrel and Bowman and baby Pinpin, to believe that there are more important things in life than moving up in society’s ranks.
When one day Kestrel rebels, tired of the endless rules, regulations and tests, and her entire family is put in jeopardy, she finds that the only way to save them and the entire city from their horrible fate is to find the Wind Singer’s voice and return it to its rightful place.
I thought that the set-up for the kids’ big quest was very good, but once things got moving I felt like the author glossed over too much.
In year 7, my class was split into reading groups.
When it came time to select the book we would read and discuss, our group was divided in regards to what we should choose.
The four boys in my group wanted to read this book (I assume just to spite us) and my friend and I wanted to read another book (the title escapes me at the moment).
After much heated debate about how good our book would be, purely because of the blurb and cover (our badass younger selves ignored the wise words 'don't judge a book by it's cover') we came to a vote, as pleasant democracy abiding citizens would.
Kestrel Hath is a little girl who has more courage to stand up for what she believes in then the whole town.
Bowman Hath is Kestrels twin brother who goes on the quest with her.
Mumpo tags along, he doesn't take no for an answer.Protagonist:Kestrels is a little girl who is a great protagonist.
She sticks to her guns and with the help of her family takes on an idea that the government of her town has made up.
Then there's this little girl and her family who decide to go against all this to bring upon fairness.
I started this book when I was much younger (about six or seven) and I was hooked.
Unfortunately, I was unable to finish it until much later (about three or four years later) and it still had me hooked.
The book made me happy.
Of course, there wersome unaswered questions especially about the old children and the windsinger but the rest of it was really charming.
I especially loved Mumpo, and a few of the twins' character traits.
If was to critically analyse it now, I would probably find disturbing messages or plot holes but reading it as a child, it made me happy.
And that's what a children's book should do.
I remember reading this trilogy many, many years ago. Mumpo and Kestrel were my favourite characters. However, the most I remember about it is just how weird it is. Like, really weird. With creepy bald children that want to eat you soul kind of weird. I might be tempted to reread this if I can dig it out at my mam's house.
A book worth reading
Maybe 3.5. I enjoyed this one. I read it as a child but have very little memory of it, and it's an enjoyable read as an adult - a very interesting world, almost a fairytale universe, with a great story and very strong characters. I loved the family dynamic between the main characters.
DNF’d at page 115 because Made. Up. Words. 🙄😒
William Nicholson introduces us to the twins Kestrel and Bowman Hath, who share a telepathic/empathic connection on top of Bowman possessing the empathic abilities.
Unfortunately, the Hath family is rebellious and doesn't fit in with the rules at all - especially Kestrel.
So after a couple "incidents", Kestrel and Bowman end up going on an adventure to reclaim a lost artifact that had been stolen from Amaranth generations ago: the Wind Singer's voice that would free the Amaranth people from their rigid structure and rules.
Thanks to the twins' and Nicholson's insights about him though, Mumpo came across as the idiot you'd love to ditch but can't because you love him too much.
ummmmm this book was very strange. VERY VERY STRANGE. but i found myself liking it, for some reason. but just to warn you, if you haven't read it, this is one of the weirdest things i have read in my entire life.
A brother and sister team rebel against their city's soulless and color-coded caste system, face dire consequences from the Chief Examiner, and instead escape the city walls and head out in search of the key to the Wind Singer (a strange and ancient device in the middle of the city).
There are hints that finding and replacing the key will unlock the Wind Singer's song and along with it, the freedom of the citizens of Aramanth.
I may continue the series at some point, but not just now, I think.
Kestrel, her twin brother, and a classmate have heard the legend of the wind singer's voice, and they choose to leave their highly ordered society and journey to find the voice for the wind singer, a voice that is supposed to solve all the problems and hopefully will allow them to save their family.This book is similar to The Giver in that the society is highly controlled and a child chooses to break from that mold.
This book is similar to the Lord of the Rings in that the children embark on a dangerous journey, battle the bad guys, and return victorious.
It would have been simple to look at this book from that perspective and rate it lower for many reasons: in your face points being made about society, simplistic writing style, convenient wrapping up of situations to the favor of the main characters, lack of character development, etc.But...
the book was targeted at the younger set and I wouldn't be doing it (or the author) justice if I didn't try to look at it from the rising side of the age curve.
It's fast paced, with main characters that are simple to decipher; you know who's good and who's bad.
While the main action follows Kestrel and Bowman as they try to fix their cursed city by magical means, we do see their parents taking action in their own, less magical way.
What I value about this book is, as I said, its gentleness.
The book emphasizes appreciating the value of every person you meet--which sometimes means making the effort to LOOK for their value.
Over and over again, that is the message of "The Wind Singer." The adventure is nice, the danger is appropriately dangerous, but the book to me says this: be brave, be gentle, be kind.We could use more books like this.
The Windsinger is the first novel in the trilogy titled 'Winds on Fire' and it was one of my favourite books growing up.
The Manth people live in a city where everyone is supposed to be equal.
Don't get me wrong this is a simple book aimed at someone much younger than my 27 years, however, I still found it just as delightful possibly because the nostalgia was just so good.
These are the types of novels which all children should read to introduce them to the world of fantasy writing.
I also felt like some of the main elements of the story weren't fleshed out very well, like the existence of the map, the briefly alluded-to giants, what the wind singer really was and what it meant, and the existence of the mud people.
All in all, this was not a bad book by any means, and I would give it 3 stars if 3 meant something more like "it's okay; I probably wouldn't recommend it to people but I don't regret reading it." The premise was great, but it needed much more detail to make me really feel good about recommending it.
The Windsinger is a wonderful tale of twins who fight against the leaders of a town who reject diversity and independence. The main characters are twins who have the ability to read each other's thoughts. The twins are forced into situations where they learn a great deal about themselves. The various "obstacles" they encounter are a very creative and deal, in some aspects, with fears children may have, such as old age. Highly enjoyable book that I read in one sitting.
Well these are all in the book "The Wind Singer" by William Nicholson.The book introduces us to what the wind singer is; a large device that plays music with the wind.
They barely escape the army and make it back just in time to save the day"The Wind Singer" is very interesting with moments of amazement the following are a couple of my favorites.
I think "The Wind Singer" is a great with lots of funny and cool moments with a feel-good ending.
I think it is an all-around good book.
I love a good quest and this doesn't disappoint.
We follow twins Kestral and Bowman, together with their classmate Mumpo, on a quest to escape the tyrannical regime at home and search for the elusive way to make the Wind Singer sing again.
Along the way they encounter children who have grown old and who can swiftly age anyone they touch, a civil war where no blood has been shed for decades and where both sides are excited to sacrifice our heroes and finally they encounter the Zars, a race who just keep on coming at them no matter how many they kill.
I'm now a fan of William Nicholson. Although the protags are children, the depth of their love for one another pitted against the callousness of the town adds depth to The Wind Singer. I found myself caring about what happened to them and wanting them to reach their goal. It's an adventure book and something's always happening. Nothing's ever easy.
Some interesting characters and ideas...a fun and easy read, a lot of clever social commentary, however, the ending was too rushed and resolved in two pages, which is always problematic, but a fun read anyways. I will read the sequels.

So I couldn't finish this crappy book BECAUSE.1- He narrates as he's narrating to a 7 year old kid with a CHILDISH voice (I thought he was telling the story to a poodle not a human)2- Writing sucks as hell, trust me I read many books this was the worst thing I've ever read.3- Characters were as flat as the book's paper.4- The fact that one of the main characer is retarded and he's in love with the bitch and the bitch got attracted to him in a second because he was jumping into the mud lake GRACEFULLY, tell me about it -_-5- The whole story they were walking and stuff just happen around them and to them and they just watch everything like Oh NO.
I beg to differ.Things that annoyed me (in no particular order):Made-up (curse) words draw attention to the "power of curse words"...or are just annoying to read over and over, and lend silliness to situations that otherwise might have been emotional (like by a parent yelling "hubba hubba" to his child because apparently that means something akin to "yay"??).The fact that such a facile story, with all its mockery of social structures (and social conflict), seemed to be sending a message that anarchy was the answer.
And yeah, first 70 pages are like that.And then everything just goes fucking nuts.I don't who, was it an author, editor, author's friend, but at some point there was someone who smoked a giant ass blunt and said “Hey, you know what would be cool?”And the next 300 pages were written.Here’s what happens: Kestrel and Bo are twins that live with their father, mother and sister in this dystopian society.
When that missing piece returns to Wind Singer, Morah will be defeated.Already it’s pretty fucking weird.So, Kestrel takes Bo and this really weird kid Mumbo and they set off on an adventure.
WIND SINGERAuthor: William NicholsonReviewer: TakundaI chose to read The Wind Singer by William Nicholson because I remember the book being read to me by a teacher a while ago and parts of the book were a bit blurry in my mind so I decided to re-read it.
II had reached about page four in the book when I realised that this book would be the reason I would forget to do my chores for the next two days.
