https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/5171.Drowning_Ruth
I quite liked this book, it annoys me to find out that it's an Oprah book.
It makes me like it less by default.
He had no idea how to hack through the foliage, nor whether whatever he uncovered would please him, but neither did he want to follow blindly the manicured course on which his feet were already set."All the characters were slightly crazy, but with good reason.
I loved the narration, switching between past and present, from the perspective of different characters.
Giving just enough of the past to keep you interested in the present.I thought it was very good.
The story danced around the central question: "What Really Happened the Night Mathilda Died?" After a while I just didn't care.
The whole lot of them could have fallen through the ice for all I cared.
The characters were stupid to the nth degree and there seemed to be a running theme of "Co-dependency is great!" running through the whole thing.
The "big twists" to the story can easily be figured out without the use of much brainpower.
I kept thinking of so much better things that I could be doing.
Young Ruth, Matilda's daughter, remembers drowning, but doesn't remember the details.
Amanda takes responsibility for Ruth, raising her as her own, and then cares for Carl when he comes home from the war.
Throughout the book we learn of the events that lead to the drowning and what truly happened that night.
Carl plays a major part in the plot for a good majority of the book, there is tension and development there.
Amanda, the main character, oh, you just want her to drown from the very beginning.
I guess Ruth drowned twice.
Wishy-washy and predictable.
Horrible! Horrible! The only reason this gets a star is that we don't have minus stars. Not even reading this next to the shore could save this.Confusing as you read to a fairly obvious conclusion. Second Oprah book while on vacation; she's having a bad season because they both were pretty bad. Did I mention this was horrible.
The last thing I do in the world is take advice from celebrities so when I discovered this was on Oprah’s book club list I almost didn’t pick it up.
Though completely different it had the same feel.‘Drowning Ruth’ is a story of painful secrets, love for a child and a woman’s life sacrifice for this child.
This is one of those stories that tugs at your heart and keeps you turning the pages in hopes things will turn out right in the end.
I found myself frustrated at times when secrets lived on but that is what made it valid.
By "nice folks," I mean those readers who think prematurely reading the last ten pages of an Agatha Christie mystery is punishable by a jail sentence.In fact, Drowning Ruth might just be this year's literary equivalent to The Sixth Sense.Which is not to say that Drowning Ruth is a ghost story.
There is a tragedy and there is high drama of the kind familiar to readers of Thomas Hardy, Charles Dickens and Theodore Dreiser (to punch home the obvious, Schwarz even has one character reading Dreiser's Jennie Gerhardt).We literally don't know what happened on the island until the very last sentence, and that's what propels us with such page-turning, lip-smacking fury through the book.
Set in rural Wisconsin between the First and Second World Wars, this story of two sisters and their children growing up on the shores of a lake is full of secrets, guilt, misunderstandings and tragedy.
There's an intensity about the plot that makes it quite difficult to bear at times - especially the ending when so much is at stake.
As a debut novel, it's quite remarkable and I wasn't surprised to hear that it was an Oprah's Book Club choice; but I think it has its weaknesses.
There wasn't enough light in the story for me.
She's undoubtedly a promising writer, but I felt relieved to have reached the end.
I'm having trouble putting together my thoughts on this book.
The story was interesting and the mystery kept me engaged.
I felt that some things were unanswered, and so I was left a bit unsatisfied.
(i.e. I wanted to know more about Amanda and Joe's past, I felt confused about Amanda's "mental illness") I also felt that the transitioning from past to present wasn't always clear.
The characters were interesting, yet I had trouble figuring out both Ruth and Amanda at times.
Overall I definitely liked it more than I disliked it and thought it an interesting read.
Stupid Oprah. Stupid predictable book. I feel like an asshole for even paying $0.10 at the library book sale for it.
Unfortunately the only drowning I was doing was in exhaustion. I never liked any Oprah recommendation,but I give every book an opportunity to impress me. However this book was so boring,it was extremely tedious,inconsistent and forgettable.NOTHING about the content made a lasting impression.I need to trust my instincts more.NEXT!
I read this book a few years ago and forgot everything.
Now that I've reread it for bookgroup, I can see why I forgot.
The characters bore me.
The only reason I kept reading is to find out how Ruth drowned.
Ruth turns out to be just as woosie as her Aunt Amanda.
The only one with any character (Mattie) is dead, so that should tell you something.
And we know who Imogene is the first time she wants that blue marble...Anyway, I gave it two stars because the writing is tolerable and she kept the "big secret" of how Mattie drowned until the end.
The excerpts from reviews on the back cover of books are often gushing and raise your expectations too much.
I had never heard of this book nor the author, never read any reviews, and had been putting off reading it for a few months, in spite of the rave reviews from respected sources on the back cover, because I didn’t want to be let down.
If you don’t enjoy books which switch between the perspectives of different characters, or backwards and forward in time, you will not enjoy this book.
This was one of those books which makes you want to read more by the author.
Drowning Ruth was an Oprah book a few years ago, which just supports my opinion that Oprah doesn't actually read the books before they become part of her book club and go on to sell millions and millions.I wasn't all that excited about this book when my book group voted on it in December, but I was pleasantly surprised with how compelling the beginning was.
Like several other books that we've read in the last couple years, the ending was so-so.
It seems like so many authors get tired and kind of wimp out at the end of the book.
Guess what? This book is about drowning. No really. The whole thing. I think it's some type of theme.
(This review also appears on Amazon.co.uk)Not quite the worst book I've ever read, but it comes close...
Being an Oprah book club recommendation I expected this to be pretty good- she's usually spot-on when it comes to books that are sharp, witty, insightful and thought-provoking...
It went straight in the charity bag afterwards too, though I feel bad it may eventually be inflicted on some other poor soul.I'll spare you the summary of this story, it may send me to sleep- but if you're still interested in what happens, check out the reviews of the people who have *positive* things to say about this novel.In my opinion: dull.
I think I drove my husband insane while reading this because after every page, I would put it down and exclaim, ""This book is crazy, babe!"" The author uses both first and third person to tell her story from multiple perspectives.
Some of the negative reviews for this novel sited the use of both first and third person as their main reason for disliking the format of the story.
I personally found it quite useful in the character development and that is where this novel truly excelled.
It keeps the reader interested and by the end I was dying to know what had happened.
I CAN'T do it! I'm  of the way into it and I keep waiting for "the gripping psychological thriller" to start but unless I force myself to pick it up and read it I don't. I keep telling myself the last 50 pages are going to be awesome and pull it all together.... But is it worth my time for the first 250 pages - nope!
I CAN'T do it! I'm ⅓ of the way into it and I keep waiting for "the gripping psychological thriller" to start but unless I force myself to pick it up and read it I don't. I keep telling myself the last 50 pages are going to be awesome and pull it all together.... But is it worth my time for the first 250 pages - nope!
She did't know he was married...she thought he was the perfect man( which every lady in that time wanted..even in this time) He bought her roses and took her to the fanciest places but he went on a lot of business trips(i think he went home to be with his wife..but that's my opinion.) But he was perfect in her eyes because he never forced her to do anything..all he did was take her to romantic places and kissed her cheek and touched her neck then he will kiss her lips..it was romantic..but then one night he came to he excited sayin he got a job to work in the military so they could use his inventions..They went to a hotel and she was devirginized(btw she was in her 20's)but back then that was normal because they waited till they were married..anyways later in the book i realized she concieved a little girl that niight..but she told him it was ok they had sex..
Her sister, Amanda, is the main narrator of the story and coincidentally returns home from her duties as a WWI nurse shortly before Mattie's death.
As the story progresses, Schwarz allows the narrator to change from Amanda to Mattie's survived family, and allows the novel to progress through these perspectives through time.
I have about 1/4 of the book left to read, but I *accidentally* peaked and kind of know what is going to happen.
Maybe I can pick this book up LATER and finish it, but not right now.
Surprisingly enough, I liked this book even though it was on a very depressing subject. I will admit, however, that the pacing was too slow for me. I had to cheat and read the end fairly early in the book just to keep myself going. Nearly all the plot twists are predictable but I thought the writing was good. I did not know if I should feel sorry for Amanda or incredibly angry at her selfishness.
such a fantastic read!
Drowning Ruth is surprising. Historical fiction can be dry but this novel is alive with excitement and intrigue. My favorite part was the setting (early 1900's were so revolutionary), but there's also a lot of good character development and many plot twists to leave you guessing for a long time.
This novel tells the haunting story of two generations of a Wisconsin family brought together and torn apart by the lake adjacent to the family home.
Focused on four women, sisters of two generations, the novel develops around the sisters' relationship with the lake, and the tragedy that ensues when it claims one of their lives.
I enjoyed the developments leading up to Scwartz's telling of what actually happened the night of the tragedy.
The most enjoyable part of this book to me was the way in which Scwartz set the scene- the way in which she managed to capture the sense of a time and place.
But this being Schwarz's first novel, I'm not going to complain too much, because it was still pretty good.It was a little too jumpy, just all around, writing, plot line, characters.
I also think Schwarz put herself in a hard place with some of the characters because a few of them served a purpose while at the same time seemed pointless.
But I think she put herself in a hard place because they couldn't have been written out.Also, it seemed that Schwarz had some difficulty catching Ruth's age when she was younger.
You think you know the whole story halfway through, but you really don't.
It's a cold winter, on a lonely island when Mathilda drowns, leaving her child Ruth with sister Amanda to take care of her.
The rest of the book is Ruth piecing these memories together as she grows older under Amanda and her dad's watchful eye.
I understand that she wants to take care of her niece after her sister dies but there's really no reason to the extremes she goes to in her thoughts of protecting Ruth.
I'm sure I hoped for the same type of ending that the majority of sane people would want for Ruth in this book.
Oh what a tangled web we weave...And just like a spider web, the book drew me into the underlying tangled story.
The imperfect characters were believable for their reactions considering the time period and considering each person's childhood.
And as time goes on I realize that every family has its secrets.
And despite some reviews, I did find it a good story.This is again when I wished goodreads would allow half stars in its rating scale.
The book was much better than average but enough to rate a 4.
It is a good escape read and has enough themes to warrant book club discussion.
First apprehension, then empathy, then outrage, justification, disgust…I was on a roller-coaster.Can’t say the book gave me many happy moments; it kept me on edge waiting, with anticipation and dread, to see what was coming next to twist my theories out of whack. (view spoiler)[ The validity of Amanda’s grounds for dismissal at the beginning of the book was on my mind throughout the story. (hide spoiler)]The miserly disclosure of bits of a mystery, given from several points of view, had me tense
First apprehension, then empathy, then outrage, justification, disgust…I was on a roller-coaster.Can’t say the book gave me many happy moments; it kept me on edge waiting, with anticipation and dread, to see what was coming next to twist my theories out of whack. (view spoiler)[ The validity of Amanda’s grounds for dismissal at the beginning of the book was on my mind throughout the story.  (hide spoiler)]The miserly disclosure of bits of a mystery, given from several points of view, had me tense and speculating to the very end.Ruth drown many times, and I went under with her.
Not bad for a first novel. Kind of fun to read about how things were many years ago, and there are some big secrets to be revealed, so it definitely keeps your interest, although not "gripping."
3.5 Not normally something I would read. It was good and I'm glad I read it.I liked the shifting narratives as well as the deep and complicated relationships of the four core women of the story.
