https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/21943246-black-ice
...for a minute there, I’d thought I was going to have to save myself. Instead, I’d wandered into the protective care of a sexy older man. It is easy to criticize the Orson Scott Cards of the world for their misogyny and hatred of women within novels, but the fact remains that the Bella Swans, the Luce Prices, the Bethany Churches of this world are written by female authors. It is a tragic, depressing fact, made more so that it feels like a betrayal of one's gender.This is a fairytale, because
I am seriously going to fucking judge you if you fall in love with the love interest within this book.I know that to each their own and all, but in the 21st century, in this day and age, when women have fought so hard for equality...why do these female authors seek to bring us back to the 19th century with despicably weak, foolish, naive, too-stupid-to-live female main characters?
Give me a good boy any day.There really are not enough curse words in the English language (or any other language I know, and I know a few) for how much I hate the main character, this is a spoiled-little-daddy's girl who gets herself involved in a love triangle with possible murderers, thieves, and abusers.
Another reason this book is boring (and annoying) is because Britt cannot stop relating every single little thing back to her ex who no one cares about.
She views her with such disdain; even if Korbie is a bit of a pain in the ass, there's really no wonder that your only friend is a pain in the ass if you're a total bitch.When the men in this novel are assholes to Britt, she angsts and worries about what she did and believes that they have true goodness hiding in their soul and she can probably bring it out (or some such bullshit).
*exhales slowly* This is officially the worst book I've read this year.
Not ONE good decision was made.- The writing is so all over the place.
Sometimes the characters are talking like vapid giggling love-crazy teenagers, and the next they're using words like "litany".
The main character literally didn't care about her life, she just cared about what boy she was currently falling in love with.
In a way, though, I'm glad I read it because the liveshow is going to be hilarious.
I hope a bunch of you also pick it up so that we can all have a good discussion!
Don't you hate it that people haven't even read this book and are already judging it. Saying it's going to be bad. It's like seriously if your going to go in with a negative point of view why bother reading it at all? I hate reading reviews where people don't even want to give the book a chance they just want to bash it. Yeah I get it not all books are great and deserve praise but at least give it a chance before you bash it.
- Even though I thought the plot was a bit predictable at times, I still had several moments where I was SCREAMING at my book "WHO DO I TRUST?
WHAT'S GOING ON HERE?
WHO'S GOING TO DIE?".
Things that I felt iffy about: - I wasn't a huge fan of the main character-- especially at the beginning I found her annoying, but as the story progressed I feel like I grew more attached to her and her situation.
I just wasn't a huge fan of her attitude at the beginning, but I feel like she dropped it when a certain situation took place.
Pros - I really liked the setting and there was some good tension. The mystery was interesting and engaging (although a bit predictable). Even though it was frustrating at times, for the most part I still had fun and enjoyed the reading experience.Cons - the characters made some really dumb decisions and I just didn't care enough about them to be completely invested. Some aspects of the story were pretty far-fetched and a few plot threads were just left dangling.Overall - It wasn't amazing, but if you can forgive some flaws, it's still a pretty fun read.
It's not unlike adult romantic thrillers you'd find from authors like Lisa Gardner or books in Harlequin's Mira imprint, in which the relationship drama gets a near equal amount of play as the fairly straightforward mystery.
While I'm annoyed by women acting dumb over guys in most scenarios, and I certainly don't think YA needs to always model exemplary behavior, I'm so uncomfortable with romantic portrayals like this--it just feels especially icky when the book's audience is younger.
Entertaining at parts -- but to bogged down by long stretches of actionlessness and frustrating characters for me to enjoy it. Here's my booktalk: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jNDWr...
THAT COVER.THAT BLURB.AND WRITTEN BY BECCA FITZPATRICK?I am sold. You better live up to my expectations. Can't wait!
And all the temptation that maybe Fitzpatrick was doing something brave and hard was washed away with every page I turned.Black Ice is the story about a girl who goes camping and gets kidnapped by criminals who force her to navigating the freezing terrain in order to help them escape.
A love story.So let’s start with the formula that Fitzpatrick can’t seem to let go of.1 Very Bad Boy + 1 Annoying Heroine + 1 Best friend who can die in a fire = Kat is going to kill something.Mason kidnaps her, drags her through frozen tundra, lets his friend hold a gun to her and keeps up this charade as a villain all through the novel.
Also, the fact that Britt went through something so shocking—being kidnapped—did make me sympathize with her character and start seeing her more like a girl who did not deserve to be held captive when she was expecting to spend a nice weekend with her best friend (and this latter’s brother) in the mountains than a spoiled one.
Interesting to read about actually.It would have been good if there were more of a developed friendship between Britt and Korbie.
Britt kept saying that Korbie was her best friend but that wasn’t a very healthy friendship, in my opinion.
"Like Hush, Hush, the inspiration behind Black Ice comes from my own experiences during my teen years."This sounds somewhat suspicious.
Britt herself makes all these observations about her friendship with Korbie and yet she still chooses to follow along in her friend's shadow for lord only knows what reasons.
If possible Korbie is even more shallow, spoilt and stupid than Britt and trust me that really is saying something.Britt has been planning a back packing week with Korbie for months (although how spending a week in an expensive cabin and going on daily hikes counts as back packing I'll never know!) and says she is prepared for anything but as they are driving up the mountain they are caught in an unexpected storm that reduces visibility and makes driving dangerous.
It was probably that which got me through this often infuriating read.Second, fitting that I choose those set of lyrics from The Birthday Massacre to start this review, because ultimately this book tells of a tale of a girl who's in love with strangers (symbolically, if you will) - a stranger she just met as well as a stranger whom she thought she knew well.Both of said love interests, unfortunately, are horrible.
You're still a "good guy." You might be in love with one of your hostages, and ultimately - helping her is what matters, right?D.
(view spoiler)[ But ultimately, you die before anything can come of your role in this book.
Just stay calm, Aly. Stay calm.There is so much wrong in this book that I can't fully comprehend how editors and the like didn't pick up on it, how Sugarscape called this "The perfect escape into fantasy and a love that can break all boundaries."Then again, it's Sugarscape.
There are parents out there who really don't give a crap about their children, and that's sad.Yet, in every single book I've read featuring rich kids, they're all represented as awful, unfeeling monsters.
Yay, Britt and Korbie are saved!Wait!
Because, y'know, he's really hot.The mean kidnapper has been shot!
She also says/does some things that are annoying and frustrating.The mysterious men really kept me interested in the story, but still they are not extremely compelling.The plot captivated me at first, but there are definitely developments that are unrealistic and predictable.
Romantic feelings would the last thing on my mind if I were her.The pacing in the story is a little weird.
I like the writing style, it was fast for me to read and it captured my attention, but I could still feel when the pacing dragged.For me, this book provided a unique story that really piqued my interest.
(I will add that it always annoys me when in a book it's always the friend that is helpless and that it's always the main character who is the smarter one - only a small quibble but still <.< ) In terms of thinking under pressure, Britt is on point.However, soon it becomes evident that Britt's emotional thought-process isn't as fabulous because she throws a Stockholm Syndrome and starts falling for Mason, one of the guys who is threatening Britt's life, if she doesn't help him and Shaun get off the mountain.Just because the dude is nicer than Shaun and is good looking doesn't mean anything, Britt.
At the start of the book we're told that Korbie and Britt were the best of friends but I struggled to find any evidence of that throughout the novel - even in the flashbacks.
This was a really intense book.
Also, did I mention the heart-breaking romance?Becca Fitzpatrick is the author of one of my most favorite book series, the 'Hush, Hush' Saga.
I was most surprised when I found out she was to publish a thriller book.
And now that I've read it, I'm even more surprised that I loved it so much.
Mrs. Fitzpatrick has kept her amazing writing style which is very captivating and depicting and she can bring out the entire 'thriller vibe' real good.Read it and tell me how much you loved it!
Excellent book! I loved every minute of it!Review To Come!!!
I didn’t like how gullible Brit was in her flashbacks (taste thing, I don’t like super naïve characters who get bullied and don’t see what is right in front of their faces), but I will say the hints for the villain were there all along and while I thought this book was one thing it turned out to be another ((view spoiler)[I thought it would be like The River Wild -a movie where the MC is kidnapped and escapes kidnappers at end through tricking them in dangerous survival tactics, and instead the main villain in beginning gets killed 50% in and it becomes about something else) (hide spoiler)].
Just a heads up: I’ve been writing my review while I read this book.
OH AND DON’T READ THIS UNLESS YOU’VE FINISHED THE BOOK!
BLACK ICE IS IN MY HANDSTHIS ISN’T A DREAM[image error]OHMYGODOHMYGODOHMYGOD BLACK ICE NO WAY TIME FOR DELICIOUS BOYS (and a dumb character idk) AND FANGIRLING I AM SO PUMPED…
Like no?????[image error]This shouldn’t be okay!OH kay.
They don’t need no Britt Pfeiffer (Or is it Pheiffer bc the blurb says Pfeiffer but the book says Pheiffer like??????
Don’t read it.Unless you like really love dumbers that make you feel smart.
So this book starts out like your average horror movie - girls get stuck in a storm and walk into this strangers' cabin only to find out they're not exactly as friendly as you had made them out to be.
And like I said, the lively audiobook narrator made it entertaining!Britt, the main character, I have very mixed feelings for.
Plus, it becomes so clear who the "bad guy" in this story really is, and I wanted to slap her for being so blind to it all.
Instead of coming to understand her admiration for him, however, it only cemented my opinion that this guy is a complete ass.
WHY IS IT SO HARD TO FIND A DECENT YA BOOK?!?! DNF, this plot is ridiculous. A girl hiking in a snowstorm comes across 2 other hikers who happen to be serial killers and force her to guide them down the mountain? UGH.Made it about 141 pages in. Sorry Becca Fitzpatrick, I loved your hush, hush series, but this ain't for me.
I didn’t love it like I was hoping, but I really enjoyed it.
This book won’t be for everyone, but I think a lot of readers will really like it, even love it.
At least Brit grew some lady balls during the book, but Corbie was a character that I immediately despised.
This isn’t a love triangle at all, but these flashbacks confused me and annoyed me most of the time.
I also loved how despite her feelings for him (and her conflicting feelings for Calvin) she still didn’t know if she could trust Mason.The murder storyline was very entertaining, although I did guess who the bad person was.
You know, I run hot and cold with Becca's books.
I love/hate the Hush, Hush books.
But it's not really a question, is it?
Of COURSE I'm going to read this.And if I wasn't convinced, this is what seals it: "BLACK ICE is gritty and frightening, twisty and sexy.
The stakes are high and there is a definite case of it's-not-what-it-seems going on..."What I loved most about Hush, Hush (and missed in Crescendo), was the WTFery.
The creepiness, the never quite knowing if Nora was losing it, if it mas magic, or hallucinations.SO excited to see what Becca does here ♥
Shaun holds the girls hostage, leaving Korbie injured in the cabin, but taking Britt with him and Mason to get off the mountain.
Nothing adds up in the mountains of Wyoming, but one thing Britt is sure of: she needs to escape.The story begins in an interesting way.
I like that the author set the book up in which there are constant flashbacks from Britt's past with Calvin.
Britt is forced to lead Shaun and Mason to Idlewilde, but she has Calvin's map, so she leads them to another cabin with a watchman.

On one hand, I couldn't stop flipping pages and I loved the frigid setting (seriously, I felt cold reading it)...but the characters were beyond deluded.
I liked the survival parts, although I do think it dragged when they were tramping through snow/ice/mountains.
The book's narrated by Britt, and she and her best friend Korbie are basically driving to the mountains (alone) to go hiking (alone).
Korbie and Britt end up getting stuck on the mountain and, to stop from freezing in their car (??
And Britt emphatically says that Korbie and she are like SISTERS.
I guess I read it with the right mindset.In a nutshell Black Ice seems like another shoddy attempt at a mystery – thriller book, but I kid you not…this is actually a stellar standalone novel.
Black Ice follows the story of Britt who trained thoroughly to backpack in Teton Range.
Mystery – Thriller is one of my favorite genres and this book does not disappoint.We have a strong and reliable protagonist that can fend for herself.
Britt easily becomes one of my favorite Young Adult main characters.
Black Ice is intense, mesmerizing…a fantastic, vivid story about survival.Highly recommended to Fitzpatrick’s fans and all readers who are looking for a fantastic mystery read.
I believe this is Becca Fitzpatrick's first mystery / thriller novel.
It's nice to see her venture from paranormal romance to mystery.
To my disappointment, this book isn't impressive at all.
Timely, it's rainy here so that adds the chilling atmosphere.
Gosh, she and her best friend are worst in decision making.
What kind of person wants her best friend beneath her or even compare herself to her?
That's not a real best friend to me.
It takes time for that to develop in my opinion and in this case, I find it abrupt.
I'm just happy I'm done with this book.
