https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/160320.Up_the_Down_Staircase
I was never a teacher, but I was certainly a student, as was my daughter.
Written in snippets of dialogue, notes, memos and letters, it gives the reader a real feel for what actually goes on inside the classroom, which is probably the same today as it was when this book was written in 1962.
I can see why it has attained classic status.I know this is just a review, but for any teacher reading these words, thank you for doing what you do.
And for any teacher who hasn't read this book, you should.
I have found a book to add to my collection of inspiration-to-stay-a-teacher-media; I found it just in time.Even though the book was originally published five years before I was born, teaching really hasn't changed that much.
Students haven't changed either.I recognize entirely too much of the jargon.
The more things change, the more they stay the same.I also recognize the lesson she learned that I have to relearn: the students know when the teacher cares.
Isn't that the risk we decided to take when we entered the profession?I'm glad I bought the book.
I'm glad I got the book with library binding.
"Disregard bells!"This is an epistolary novel of the first term teaching by a young woman in a NYC public high school.
Kaufman already had 20 years teaching in NYC schools when she saw this first novel published.
Many of the events in the novel are based on actual experience, but I suspect there is as much of Bel Kaufman in Bea as in Sylvia.“Whatever the waste, stupidity, ineptitude whatever the problems and frustrations of teachers and pupils,” her coworker tells her, “something very exciting is going on.
היא בעיקר נתקלת בילדים ממשפחות מעוטות יכולת, היספנים, פורטוריקנים, אפרו אמריקאים ואיטלקים.הילדים עסוקים בבעיות החיים האמיתיים כמו הצורך לעזור בפרנסת הבית, הורים אסירים, אלימים, הריונות לא רצויים כך שהם לא רואים במערכת החינוך הזדמנות אלא מקום לצאת ממנו.מאידך מערכת החינוך עסוקה בבירוקרטיה, מילוי טפסים שונים ומשונים, בחוסר אמונה בילדים.
אחד האבסורדים בספר הוא שבשלב מסויים נאסר על הילדים להשתמש במדרגות המובילות למרתף, אבל כל גרמי המדרגות מובילים לשם למעט אחד.בנוף הזה סילביה היא מורה לאנגלית מזן חריג.
היא באמת מתעניינת בילדים ובמה שיש להם לאמר לה.סילביה נאבקת בפקפוקים העצמיים שלה בבחירה שלה ללמד בבית הספר הזה.
I just prayed that I wouldn't waste another week or two of summer courses for my Master's Degree with another doozy of a book like "Oh the Glory of It All." I didn't.
Thank God this book was required for class.
At that point, I'd been a teacher for three years, now it's five, and in ten years, I'll be able to say i'm a third of the way through my career and forty years into life.
And everything that happens on every page of "Up the Down Staircase" will still be 100% true of public education and all the shit we teachers have to endure.
A lady and i were sitting next to each other in the bart station and she mentioned that she went to an inner city school in New York when this book came out in the sixties.
I asked if she thought it was weird that the book never talked about the race issues of the time especially between whites and blacks in New York.
I also asked if everyone spoke like Julie Andrews.
She said that her experience was that people didn't mention the tension and severe discrimination of the times and that she didn't remember people talking like Julie Andrews.
Трябва да напишат отново Одисеята с повече съвременни събития.” „...не бих я дал и на куче да я чете.” „Може ли да направите така че тебеширът при писане да не скърца.” „Най-много ме тревожи това, че те приемат без каквито и да било въпроси всичко, каквото им се преподава, от когото и да е, застанал пред дъската...никак не им идва наум да мислят.” „Но аз не искам да се откажа, преди да опитам.
My favorite of the students is shy Jose Rodriguez, who comes into his own when Sylvia assigns him to play the role of judge in a reenactment she does of a story.
I been." And then proceeds to become one of those kids every teacher dreams of having--someone her efforts made a difference for.)The book is now more than fifty years old, and it's as relevant today as ever, despite changes made to (it's hoped) alleviate some of the physical conditions children should never have to endure.
Given what's described in the book, that relevance is either hopeful or extremely depressing.
I loved this book. I can’t remember if I read it for the first time in high school or a year or two before, but it’s about a first year teacher with high school students and it all rang fairly true, at least for its time. Anyway, it was interesting, hilarious and very sad in parts as well. One I reread a few times.
Up the Down Staircase delves into the realm of teaching and education, which, as a future teacher, has me mesmerized.
While studying it, as I'm sure any other reader would do, I repeatedly asked myself "What difference can one teacher make in an inner-city world of pupil complacency and administrative beauracracy?" Kaufman examines the topic through a variety of written documents: memos from the principal, comments from a suggestion box, letters to an old friend, notes from students, etc.
I would recommend it to anyone, but especially someone who is, like me, hungering for more and more insight into the world of education.
I've mentioned several books here that I only read because my girl friend of the 60s wanted me to, or at least introduced me to them.
This may be another, I can't remember, but I did read it about that time.While the book tended (and for all I know still tends) to be thought of as more a "female" read.
This is a misnomer and if you allow yourself to miss this book because you think it's not for "men" you'll miss a "good read".
It shows in the book, which is written as a series of letters in the style of Sholem Aleichem (see The Adventures of Menachem Mendel.) It relates the experiences of a young English teacher in Calvin Coolidge High School, a fictional but typical New York City public school.
There's a story where the teacher, Sylvia Barrett, gets in big trouble because she lets one of her students leave an exam she was proctoring to use the toilet without waiting for a hall proctor to escort him there.
Almosteverybody who went to a big public high school has a story like that where bureaucracy trumps common sense.
Why I picked it up:When I read this book for the first time, I was planning on becoming a music teacher, and this book is about a young, inner-city teacher. I also adore books told completely through notes, letters, memos, and such, which makes it perfect.Why I finished it:Kaufman's characters are so very real, and so is the main character's journey. Messed-up bureaucracy, disengaged students, a teacher on the fast track to burnout--a book written decades before I was born still rings true now.
Neįstengiau pabaigt. Siaubingai nepatiko. Skaitai, ir prieš akis iškyla chaosas, triukšmas, betvarkė, biurokratija ir krūva abejingų idiotų - viskas, dėl ko nekenčiau mokyklos. Pati knygos forma irgi siaubinga, kažkoks cirkuliarų, raštelių, laišku, klausimų ir atsakymų kratinys be jokios aiškios ir logiškos struktūros.Žodžiu, šita knyga - ne man. Sėsk, kuolas. :)
Another one of those books I read decades ago. Actually I was in my high school production of this as one of the students--I still remember saying "liberry".
I had seen the 1967 movie by the same title starring Sandy Dennis, so I jumped at the chance to read the fictional book on which the movie was based.The book is told through notes and directives and letters and memos between teachers and teachers, students and teachers, administration and teachers, and occasionally teachers and parents.
All she wants to do is make a difference in Room 304.Although the unconventional structure of the book (told entirely through notes and letters) conveys to a certain extent the chaotic, dysfunctional nature of the school and many of the students and staff, at some point in the book I just wished for some real dialogue and articulate, flowing prose.
Humorous novel with many grains of truth--just as true today as when written 50 years ago. I laughed and cried. Neophyte idealistic teacher, Sylvia Barrett's first semester teaching at an inner-city NYC high school, contending with the horrendous bureaucracy, paperwork, and red tape and trying to instill the love of learning in her students, persisting despite setbacks. The author is the granddaughter of the noted Yiddish humorist Sholom Aleichem of the Tevye the Dairyman stories.
I inadvertently labeled this as nonfiction (which I have now corrected), because it is based on the author's experiences and reads like nonfiction.
[This] is the funny and touching story of a committed, idealistic teacher whose clash with school bureaucracy is a timeless lesson for students, teachers, parents – anyone concerned about public education.
My reactionsThis is written in a kind of epistolary style – notes in the suggestion box, memos from the school principal or nurse or clerk, letters written to a college friend, messages from fellow teachers, items posted on the bulletin board, etc.
There are misspellings and doodles (where the kids are writing in the suggestion box or school assignments), ALL CAPS (memos from the “all important” vice principal), and bureaucratic gobbledygook psychobabble (from the school counselor who fancies herself a Freudian psychoanalyst).
Книжка про вчителювання в дусі "щоб не плакать я сміялась" - випускниця філфаку, сповнена теорії і любові до Чосера потрапляє в звичайну американську школу 1960-х, де немає скріпок, парти поламані, а учениці помирають від нелегальних абортів.Романів про вчителя, який приходить і своєю любов'ю міняє клас є багато (а фільмів ще більше).
Кожен крок кожної особи регламентований документом - включно з тим, в якому напрямку йти по коридору, така собі антиутопія, яка в реальності тріщить по швах-Бел Кауфман - внучка Шолом-Алейхема!
THANK you to recent reviewers of this book!! I have been trying to remember the title of this book for two years... the plot has been stuck in my mind, but the title & author have been gone-baby-gone. : ) I can't wait to reread this now...!
Chronicling those first tentative steps into a classroom chock full of idealism and short on any real preparation, Kaufman shows the hearts and minds of students - and teachers and principals- for what they truly are, as well as the sea of senseless and dehumanizing paperwork that was laugh out loud funny in its clever irony and utter stupidity.
That got sort of irritating too though I know that students' love for a new and caring teacher can be like that and that much of it can be attributed, as hers was, to her wardrobe, but still.
But I feel like this is one of those books: something is said to have happened, characters are said to have certain characteristics and abilities, but as far as the reader is concerned, none of that is proven.
Sorry.The other thing that bugged me was the fact that I do not feel close to the setting and problems of the book.
I was never in a school with a problem with minorities, neither is 60's America in any way close to me as far as ideals and ideas go.
There are less than a handful of American classics that I like.
Written in 1964, this fictional story of a teacher in an inner-city public high school struggles with the administration, the other teachers, the students — just throw in some cell phones and it feels like it could take place in present day.
Sylvia’s first semester is told through memos, intra-school notes between teachers, letters home, student essays, comments from the “suggestion box,” lesson plans, and more.
I thought this book was interesting and hit so many right notes about the problems teachers face, but found it very easy to put down and not pick up again.
A more interesting book about a teacher’s struggles I recently read was The Water is Wide by Pat Conroy.
If you are in education this is a must-read!
This book was written in the 1960s but I am telling you right now that it is very relevant for today's teachers.
Yet, this book has a hopeful message that will bring a tear to your eye.
The author, Bel Kaufman, was an educator for over thirty years.
She is currently 101 and recently wrote a forward to the kindle version of her book.
If you want to laugh a little and be reminded about why you became a teacher in the first place, you can't go wrong with this book!
This is one of those rare cases in which I liked the movie better than the book. In the movie, a girl who has a crush on one of her teachers writes him a love note. He takes her aside and tells her about all the grammatical errors she'd made in her note. Later she commits suicide. This doesn't happen in the book.
An awesome account of a first-year high school English teacher, this book is one that will make any day better by taking you through the daily struggles and triumphs of the daily "educational" grind for this new teacher.
The only thing I can say about the book is that if you wonder what it is like to be a teacher you should definitely read it for it is absolutely true and works with all the schools despite the place you live or the status of the school.
Stuck in the college library for two hours with no computers available. So what did I do? Started re-reading this classic masterpiece -- which somehow never made it on my GR bookshelves before!Really a marvelous book that everyone should read -- and re-read!
I think I read this when I was a young teenager; it was certainly long enough ago that I didn't even remember that it was a novel! I found it charming and sweet and unrealistic while being all too realistic. Also: there's a biography at the end of the book, and...I had NO idea that Bel Kaufman was Sholom Aleichem's granddaughter! What a lineage... [APOLOGIES...I had said she was his grandfather, which makes no sense! I've edited it since.]
