https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6.Harry_Potter_and_the_Goblet_of_Fire
Don't mind me, just crying my eyes out. This was WAY better than I remember it being, and I remember it being pretty darn good. J.K. Rowling is a writing goddess and I can't believe how much foresight and planning went into this series. She already hints at the horcruxes and many other things in this book that don't show up until much later. Definitely one of my favorites in the series (but I say that about all of them)!
Um. Wow. Yeah. That was freaking FANTASTIC!!!! Probably my favorite so far, just wow oh my gosh......WHAT EVEN!! I feel empowered and sad at the same time (sad because...you know). 5/5 stars of course!
This series has taken a damn TURN!Watch my video review here: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AEqu8...
One of my favorites in the series.The ending always gets to me and breaks my heart.
*To read more reviews by me visit Views & Reviews *I seriously have no idea why I still review these books when I have nothing new to say. I mean... J.K. Rowling is perfect. This series is perfect. And I dream day & night of going to Hogwarts. So what I'm going to do is, I'm going to show you how I felt about this book:When I started the book:During the book:At the end: Umm.. Mam Rowling..All in allSorry for the lame review, readers. I just really don't know what to say..
(A) 86% | ExtraordinaryNotes: After a steady build, the series hits its stride. Deep and layered, it goes down smooth, never seeming overly complex.
This was the beginning of my addiction to POTter.
Ignore the so-called "experts" who say POTter is brain cell killing pap.
POTter makes you feel good.
POTter makes you smile.
POTter makes you joyous and giggly.
Hell, POTter makes you want to use the word giggly.
POTter is enjoyable and fun.
So what made  the Goblet so much more addicting than the rest of the POTter I had tried.
Still enjoyable, but not enough to put the POTter monkey on my back.
Then came the Goblet of POTter and it was a big, huge, tightly-rolled fatty at 750 pages.
every time I read this I can't stop laughing at how MUCH FORESHADOWING can possibly be crammed into one book... and then I just picture:
It was a nice thing to throw in there.-Dobby is also in this book more, and seeing how different he is was really fun.-Harry and Ron fighting made my heart hurt so much.-All of the drama at the Yule Ball just made me SQUEEE because it's so obvious that Ron and Hermione like each other and they just don't want to admit it and GAH.
He was such an amazing person, and I wish that he could have survived so him and Harry could have been buddies.-VOLDEMORT FORESHADOWS HORCRUXES IN THIS BOOK.
“Differences of habit and language are nothing at all if our aims are identical and our hearts are open.”There are so many chapters and characters and details that make this book special.
Hermione in every scene ever3.
The house elves and the kitchen scenes (I'm honestly so in love with the kitchens.
The Yule Ball and the fact that Harry thinks Hermione is a girl he's never seen before6.
Hermione's triumph over a vicious beetle.Still, the book is not my favourite in the series, the reason being the horrible graveyard scene in the end.
It's just a little too much to take for my poor Potter heart.Find more of my books on Instagram
English (Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire) / Italiano«The villagers of Little Hangleton still called it “the Riddle House”, even though it had been many years since the Riddle family had lived there»Maybe this time I was out of line with the bedtime reading to my daughter, not so much for the size of the book, but for its darker content compared to the previous ones.
Ho dovuto sdrammatizzare non poco.La Coppa del Mondo di Quidditch è alle porte, ed Harry, Ron ed Hermione hanno la possibilità di vedere dal vivo la finale, prima dell'inizio del nuovo anno scolastico.
GOBLET OF FIRE is definitely work and I could've done for a lot of cutting.
One of the things I admire most about this series is the way J.K. Rowling can speed through a year in under 300 pages.
And GOBLET is twice that length and it didn't always feel justified.
And the same thing happened during this reread as a 28-year-old.
This last fourth of the novel has always been my favorite.
Voldemort's return!
Voldemort!
GOBLET isn't my favorite in the series, but it's still pretty damn magical.
I have no idea why this didn't show as being read but who cares. It's Harry Potter and I can reread and listen to them forever!! Mel 🖤🐾🐺
I loved this so much. <3 It's truly incredible to see how Rowling created one of the most fascinating fantasy worlds and allowed it to mature with it's readers as the series continues on. My favorite installment yet and I can't wait to continue on! Also, all the tears. :'(
Best one so far! "Remember, if the time should come when you have to make a choice between what is right and what is easy, remember what happened to the boy who was good, was kind, and brave, because he strayed across the path of Lord Voldemort. Remember Cedric Diggory."
I played James Potter, helped countless kids memorize their lines, choreography and ten musical numbers and yet the only plot points I picked up of the entire musical was the Yule Ball and (view spoiler)[Cedric Diggory's death.
(hide spoiler)]The whole time I was reading this book - 5 years later - all I could think about was that musical and what I knew was coming because of it.
I was worried the entire novel and utterly heartbroken once it actually happened - 5 years of build up to finally understanding what was happening in this book and I'd say It was 100% satisfying.
I’d dropped out of university after my first year because my degree in psychology was a terrible choice, I seemed to be making more enemies than friends through life, but none of that mattered because I was reading a great series of books.
I had something to look forward to every day when I really needed it.
The point is books are escapism and fantasy books particularly so.
As I got my shit together, this book helped me move on and get through life as so many other books have since.
It still hasn't.Maybe one day.
This one is still my favorite!
Reread in December 2017 for #HarryXmasToYouForever sad about Winky not being in the movie and Rita Skeeter’s whole story not making it in either, because she’s so awful but JUSTICE IS SERVEDReread in December 2015 for #HarryXmasToYouSeriously so many things I forgot because it's so different from book to movie!
Lots of things I forgot!
Like Ludo Bagman as a character, the Weasley's coming to be Harry's family for the third task, and just how things actually happen in the book since it varies in the movie.
Things start to get dark after this book!
It was a nice change and helped bring a bit more realism to the story (it was nice to see that wizards and witches get excited over such a normal thing as a sport event, too!).One of my favorite things in the book was the portrayal of friendship.
I haven't read the following books yet, so I obviously can't say how much of what happened in this one will play a part later, but I still feel like I learned so many new things about the world this story takes place in and about the characters in it.
في سوريا والعراق ظهر قادة الدولة الإسلامية "داعش" يغزون مدنهما يخرجون من ليس منهم,من ليس "إسلاميا" م
Normally, I congratulate myself for finishing a 500 + page novel but after reading 734 pages of this book, my only reaction was “How could it already be over?”The more I read Harry Potter, the harder I fall in love with J.K. Rowling.
I’ll make you a personal badge I’d wear all the time saying Harry Potter is the best.
Hermione moments 1.
Ron and Harry made up.
J.K. Rowling says “let the killing of noble characters begin” (view spoiler)[ Cedrick!
I was going to read something else for you but I can't keep my hands off Harry Potter.
I'm apparently the crankiest person on earth, because this was my least favorite Potter book yet.
(AZKABAN being my favorite!) It's mostly because:1.
There is too much tournamenting for my taste.
There are moments when Harry and Ron behave like stereotypical stupid boys (I know, I know, they're 14...doesn't mean I can't be annoyed with them.)The book gets an extra star because the last 10 chapters were very good, though, and I loved:1.
that Hermione gets a makeover, but then matter-of-factly says it's too much trouble to straighten her hair every day.2.
Poor brave boy.
(view spoiler)[WHY DID NO ONE TELL ME.
(hide spoiler)]
One of my favorites!
it's Harry Potter?
Movie's skipped a lot.-Speaking of Dobby is my favorite and I'll forever be mad he was written out of the movie - Barry Crouch Jr is still attractive, but I think it's only because David Tennant played him in the movie...-I'm still not over Cedric.
💔- Cho is boring and I don't know what Harry sees in her- Does all this S.P.E.W stuff actually go anywhere?
- Molly Weasley is who I aspire to be- I disliked movie Sirius, but like book-Sirius a lot more- More Remus Lupin please!- I still think Harry throwing that one challenge to "save" everyone was kind of dumb
Death had always been a major theme of these books, but Goblet of Fire was really the turning point of the whole series. Not only did Voldemort return, but we found out that the Wizarding World is much larger, and (view spoiler)[ Cedric is killed (hide spoiler)].The characters become more real yet are still stuck in flux between child and adult, which is apropos seeing as how this book is literally in the middle of the series. ["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>
Could you be any more perfect?
Book Review  4+ of 5 stars to Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire, the 4th book in the "Harry Potter" young adult fantasy series, written in 2000 by J.K. Rowling. Although this one was close to a 5 for me, I think it's enough to give 1 book in the series a 5-rating, which means this one will stay at a 4. But I still loved and adored the characters, the setting, the story, the themes... all of it! Rather than go into a detailed review, as we've seen too many of them (always fun to read tho!), I
Although this one was close to a 5 for me, I think it's enough to give 1 book in the series a 5-rating, which means this one will stay at a 4.
Rather than go into a detailed review, as we've seen too many of them (always fun to read tho!), I'm just going to chat a little bit about the parts that I enjoyed the most.1.
And to see the drama of how it all turns out.I am feeling the need to re-read this series again soon...
Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire was my most anticipated read of the series… It’s my favorite movie (I KNOW I KNOW- the books are SO MUCH BETTER) and it’s where the books really start to get intense. Even though there was a part that brought tears to my eyes, its not as sad as whats yet to come… I feel like this book is the book of transitioning for Harry, Ron and Hermione. This is the last book of their childhood. If the movies follow the books as well as I hope, shit really starts to get r
Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire was my most anticipated read of the series… It’s my favorite movie (I KNOW I KNOW- the books are SO MUCH BETTER) and it’s where the books really start to get intense.
If the movies follow the books as well as I hope, shit really starts to get real after this one.
Once again, I listened to the audio book and the narration was fantastic.
If you’ve never read the books before, or your a long time fan- I highly recommend these audio books.
I love getting lost in the world of Harry Potter and can’t wait to read more <3
“It is my belief... that the truth is generally preferable to lies.” Re-read - Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire steps up from the previous ones very well, it's the darkest book I've ever read since Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone. Who knows ? Harry Potter grows up and becomes a boy who has to take the responsibility on his shoulders, he never wants to be selected, he never wants glory and prestige, yet the world turns against him anyway.I love that this book isn't a children's book any
Harry Potter grows up and becomes a boy who has to take the responsibility on his shoulders, he never wants to be selected, he never wants glory and prestige, yet the world turns against him anyway.I love that this book isn't a children's book anymore, in my opinion, it becomes hastily intense and has more dimensions than J.K. Rowling had ever intended.
“Remember, if the time should come when you have to make a choice between what is right and what is easy, remember what happened to a boy who was good, and kind, and brave, because he strayed across the path of Lord Voldemort.
