https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/890143.The_Clique
(I've read a couple books from the series so this isn't only a review on the first one.)I admit that this book is entertaining, watching girls throw around their money without a second thought about the starving kids in Africa (yes I know that everyone's tired of the phrase but it's true, and only a visit to a third world country can make you realize that.) - but that's all I can really get from it.
Designer." (Makes me wonder what their grades are in school.) But then again, they're middle schoolers, and they come from wealthy families, so no wonder they don't really think about their futures.
This is a terrible book, part of a series that is at the top of many children's bestseller lists.
It is part of that huge chunk of media that reinforces cruel behavior among teenage girls.
Here is the pretty, nice, and middle class girl, Claire, who only has one pair of jeans.
And she wears Platform Keds.
The saddest part of it is that they are in 7th grade and wear $780 gucci halter tops.
It saddens me that this is the most popular series that young women are reading.
Um, yeah.
So the teen girls at the library are crazy about this series, so I decided to see what it was about.
It's ridiculous.
It centers around a group of vapid, cruel girls, and how our main character really wants to be a part of their clique.
No- we're just left with the impression that if she works hard enough, maybe she'll be able to get in the clique.
I think that the popularity of this book is a sad reflection on how hard it is to be a young girl in the 21st century.
I remember when I was grade 5 and I was so freaking obsess with this series it's insane.
I don't remember anything about this book except that it kept using "haught" and "naught" incorrectly and 12 year old Faith couldn't handle that kind of trash
Well, I saw this book in the store and I thought this would be a perfect over-the-top take on modern day middle school cliques and after I started reading it I realized I was not reading what I thought I was reading, it was something BETTER!
These books talk about a 12-year-old, clothing obessed girl named Massie who lives in Westchester, New York (totally rich!) and goes to an all girls school where she heads the population of the 7th grade along with her 3 best friends.
One day a middle class sweet girl named Claire moves in with Massie and she is forced to hang around her.
Miss Harrison crafts a set of 4 wealthy, airheaded sluts, and then adds in a girl who is an outcast for wearing Keds (WTF?) and eventually sells her soul so she doesn't have to endure the major emotional trauma of being made fun of sometimes (I repeat, WTF?!).
In terms of being able to relate to the main characters, Massie makes Regina George in Mean Girls look like Bella Swan.
Even Regina had emotional depth and some humanness.
OMG" No one is really like that, but these unrealistic characters are becoming role models.
Ehmagod.Reading The Clique is like attending an All-You-Can-Eat Cupcake Buffet where the hosts force you to gorge for three hours straight.Upon receiving the invitation, you become immediately aware that the concept works better on paper than it does in execution.
I'll just pace myself." Nibble, nibble.And that's when the host mashes the cupcake into your mouth and screams, "Eat it, you filthy pig!
Eat it!" And with tears streaming down your face and pounds of terrible, gritty cake in your mouth, you come to the horrifying realization that if you had only trusted your gut instinct, you wouldn't be choking to death.
This book was terrible, not my taste at all. I gave it a try. Something different from what I normally read. All it is is over 200 pages of annoying, rich teenage girls, doing stupid annoying stuff. I can't stand teenage school girl gossip. I try and stay as far away from it as possible. However, if you like reading about girls who have lots of money who scheme behind each others backs, this book would be perfect for you. I think you would really enjoy it.
I am writing this review not as part of the middle-school audience this book is targeted towards, but as an indignant college student looking back on a book series that may (hopefully not) have influenced my eighth-grade perceptions.
(Why anyone would wear a $780 tank top to middle school is far beyond me.) However, the girls in the clique don't accept Claire, and she is bullied and tormented by them.
The young, somewhat naive middle school girls who read these books, rather than seeing the clique as a group of shallow (excuse my language) bitches, aspired to be like them.
I'll say this from the start- the book is quite good, but shallow. No depth, nothing. I can't say I didn't enjoy putting down some more agonizing reads that took me a while to understand like Wuthering Heights and sit down with it and just relax, but it isn't a work of literature. A good book, don't get me wrong. Read it if you wish- avoid it if you're looking for something more serious.
This clique consists of four rich girls by the names of, Massie, Dylan, Kristen, and Alicia.
When the new girl, Claire comes in, drama starts to fill up the halls of Octavian Country Day School.
I know the feeling of what Claire might be feeling when it comes to making friends with the clique.
And it's not that she doesn't like you or anything, she just wants to act big in front of everyone and pretend that she doesn't care.This book is an excellent book to read.
It has on-going drama and it's the introduction of "The Clique Series".
The review that was promised is finally here. I don't like clique's. I never have. They suck. It hurts to be excluded. I felt for the excluded party. It was definitely an interesting and fun book. I would like to read more by this author.
Massie and her group of friends, Kristen, Dylan, and Alicia, have it all.
She got back home a few hours later than she told her friends, so they were left with Claire and ended up having fun in the pool without Massie knowing, untill she walked in on them and her friends ran to her side.
Claire, not knowing what to do, layed out by the pool and Massie had her friends play mean tricks on her!
Even though the Dylan, Alicia, and Kristen were having a good time singing and playing with ehr in the pool, mean Massie had them throw food on her!!!
I am currently reading the Clique by Lisi Harrison.
I am almost done with the book and I am really excited.
In the book Claire sneaks into Massie's room and starts emailing Massie's friends, but she doesn't get away with it for long.
In the beginning I thought I was like Claire, but what I just read where she sneaks into Massie's bedroom well I don't think we are very close anymore.
The author, Lisi Harrison, did a great job explaining what the 5 girls look like, some examples are cherry red lips,and fiery red hair.
Over all I would definitely give this book 5 stars.
The difference between Pretty Little Liars and the Clique is this - in Pretty Little Liars, there is a point other than reading about how awesome and popular and rich the main characters are, especially the richest and the prettiest one is.
You are reading nothing more than a story about five spoiled little girls who think their money gives them the right to act like bitches to everyone around them.Oh, and if you don't have obscene amounts of money?
And, as I've said before, these girls have no clue what it's like to have an actual problem.
Middle school years are cliquey, and its all about what clique you're in.
These books actually crushed my confidence because I knew that I couldn't act like or afford to dress like any of those girls.
In the defining years of middle school, these books give the total wrong impression.
Also keep in mind that she was an EXTREMELY intelligent, confident, and thoughtful girl before this.:"Ehmagawd.
Kayla is in the same class as Harry which is totally not good!
I mean what the hay!""OMG, Molly soooo likes Danny!
OMG- NERD-ALERT!!"about an overweight girl in her class: "Oh yeah!
Meet the Clique: Massie Block - with her glossy brunette bob and clear white smile, Massie is the uncontested ruler of the Clique and the rest of the social scene at Octavian Country Day School, an exclusive private school at Westchester, New York.
Would love to take Massie's throne one day.
Claire Lyons - the new girl from Florida, Claire is staying in the guesthouse on Massie's family estate.
She is definitely not Clique material, yet Massie's family insist that Claire is included in her gang.
Claire's future looks worse than a bad Prada knock-off, but with a little luck and a lot of scheming, she might just coming up smelling of Chanel No.19...
They are at least somehow aware that other people exist and have feelings.I am sad that this is such a popular series with young people 12+ because it is possible that they have to deal with mean-spirited, selfish, vapid kids in their own life and this book gives them no real answers about how to deal with them.
The book seems to say "The Clique" not only exists, but is OK!I gave it two stars because Ms. Harrison's technical writing skills are good, but as I said the story line sucks and she is, sadly, of no help to the youth who read her work.
Massie Block is supposed to be fabulous, perfect, pretty and everyone wants to be her.
All she ever does is complain and whine and spends half the time wasting her time trying to be friends with Massie just because she's popular and pretty and everyone loves her.
The only character that I slightly liked was Layne.
Layne because unlike the high society witches was actually different and didn't bother trying to be a Massie Clone.Overall this makes me wonder what's wrong with the world today?
(This is why I can count on one hand how many female friends I have.) This book is a slight exaggeration of how far four best friends will go to hold their titles as the most envied girls in school.
Last but not least there is Claire Lyons who moves into Massie Block’s guest house.
The four best friends consistently taunt her and make her cry, and the craziest thing about this situation is the more they mess with her the more she wants to be their friends.
this book is super trashy, catty, decadent— things i knew even as a kid weren’t particularly conducive to anything good but had too much fun with to stop reading them altogether.
like the rest of its subgenre, it presents some very warped views of gender, race, and class: desirability is the pinnacle ideal for all girls to aspire to...
of course, in the end, not even these Ideal Girls are happy, aspirational figures.
considering this book is the beginning of a long series and part of a larger trend (see: gossip girl, the a-list, etc), i’m left to believe that the capital-e Era of the dystopian YA novel began long before the emergence of the hunger games.
We all know or have known people like the main character, Massie Block, and the fact that such a narcisist has such a spotlight shone on her in these books does nothing but promote the idea that some people are truly better than others, which I'm sure is EXACTLY the lesson kids (and adults!) should be learning..
Unfortunately the path Harrison could've taken with these books to illustrate strength and perseverance by having Claire deal with her bullies and become something of a role model for kids, didn't happen as far as I know.
One of the main characters Claire moves to a new town called Westchester all the way from Florida and is faced with "the pretty committee." When she moves there she is forced to move in to Massie Blocks guest house and she doess everything she possibly can to fit in with her and her friends Alicia, Kristen, and Dylan.
The other girls don't approve of her but Massie knows Claire fits in.
That's what it taught me and it's an amazing book!
So next time you need a book to read pick up the clique series by Lisi Harrison!-Hannah
Massie Block, Alicia Rivera, Dylan Marvil, and Kristen Gregory are best friends forever and are the super popular clique at their school, Octavian Country Day School.
It's an all girls school, where everyone wears nothing but designer clothing and fashion seems to speak more than what's "on the inside".
Massie is told it's because they used to be great friends and the Lyons need a place to stay while they look for a new house.
The Lyon's daughter Claire and Massie seemed to be forced onto each other to be friends.
Massie really doesn't like Claire, saying that she has no sense of fashion, and is kind of a dork.
this a great book much better than the movie anyone can be mean but not like massi block
I wonder if Clair makes new friends or still wants to feet in Massie's group, well I guess I have to read more and figure out.Today is Clair first day of school ,Clair feels pretty nervous and trust me first day of school is scary I been threw this and I don't like it.
Claire was about to go to her friends house but Massie's mom came into the room.
Claire was wondering if actually Massie invited her to her sleepover but probably her mom just invited her not Massie.
February 7,2008 The book that I am recently reading is "The Clique" by Lisi Harrison and I think tha
For some reason, I’m in a “reread the series you loved as a young teenager” phase, and this caught my eye at the library!
I haven’t read a book from this series since I was about, oh, 14 or so, but even a decade later, the books are still fun.
Is it anything breathtaking or remarkable?
Absolutely not.
Growing up, though, this is the life I always wanted (and still do!).
So while these books are easy one or two day reads, and don’t really have any literary weight to them, they still entertain me, and take me back to my early teenagehood.
this book is about a group of girls getting ready to go back to school after a supposed-to-be awe-sooome weekend, when a new girl and her obnoxious family comes to ruin it. massie and her crew completely torture claire until claire is ready to cry her face out. the language in this book is mainly for preteens and teens. it fits perfectly...and i would know...cuz..like...i am a preteen at the age of only 12. hhahaha. well...i guess thats it...read the book..its pretty goooooodd...welll not pretty good.....ttly good...haha!!!!-K
