https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/79958.Food_in_History
From a fellow bus rider: "So what's that book about: food and history?" Me: "Yes." Him: "So like real stuff that happened and food?" Me: "Yes."
I read this book a few years ago (softcover book), and it sits as a treasured book in my collection (I'd like to have a hard cover of it one day).
The book is full of fascinating points on the usage, origin and development of all kinds of food, and not just covering the western world.
grain of salt, so to speak.I have several food history books in my collection - this one is my favorite that I flip through time and again.
I put this down for the moment and turned to Roger Osbourne's Civilization: A New History of the Western World, to fill my history needs at the moment. Thus, far, I've gotten to easily annoyed at some of the sweeping generalizzations and assumptions the author has made about what was chosen as the first methods of food, and the apparent lack of scholarship in how she decided. I'll have to come back to it when I'm less annoyed with her approach to history.
I enjoy food histories and this was no exception. There were a few points that disagreed with other histories, most notably the idea that man once used spice to disguise rancid meat. (Jack Turner's "Spice: A History of Temptation" soundly refutes that idea. ) However, overall I thought it gave an excellent overview and serves as a good companion to other more focused food histories.
My first Folio Society book and a fascinating one detailing the changes in diet, hunting/gathering/farming of food and its preparation and cooking from pre-history to the beginning of the 21st century.
Tannahill not only describes these changes and, for example, regional differences in diet but also explains them, e.g. in hot climates people eat spicy foods which make them perspire which cools them down (and prompts them to drink more fluids).The book also demonstrates the wide-ranging impact of food-related issues on civilization.
Concise history of food dating back to BCE to the 1980s. The publication date is over 30 years so it would be interesting to read an updated revision of this book.
Pre-review: I decided I wanted to read this book for a very weird reason.
Sadly, Tannahill's book has been in print for three decades without this brutal absurdity being corrected." I just want to comment that regardless if you have ever actually met an African person in your life (and I really hope you have) you definitely had to have at least heard of, if not actually eaten, Ethiopian food--famous for it's delicious Injera.
So I decided to take a break from my reading and pop on over to my favourite book reviewing site, good ol' Goodreads to see how people feel about it now.
One of my alltime favorites. I loved learning about and following the history of ingredients & food that we now take for granted. The life of pepper could be a short story.But more interesting to me was the description of the different practices cultures have surrounding eating. Banquet versus intimate dinner. A family table. Sacred foods. Topics about food -- particularly the familiy meal -- that I had never considered having had a origin someplace.
Sebuah buku sejarah yang ditulis dengan menarik, ringan, dan mengandung subjek yang menarik pula: makanan. Dalam buku ini dihidangkan makanan dari masa ke masa, mulai dari masa prasejarah hingga masa keemasan Romawi, Revolusi Industri, dan masa modern. Lebih dari itu, buku ini juga mengulas hubungan makanan dan keyakinan, trend pada masa tertentu, dan segala macam problema yang hadir karena makanan atau ketiadaan makanan.
I really enjoyed this book. It's written in a very accessible, style, and I appreciated the author's dry wit. She covers the history of food, from agricultural to culinary to cultural aspects, in most of the world's major societies from neolithic times to the late 20th century (the book was last revised in the 1980s). Highly recommended for any foodie history buffs.
Wow, a whirlwind but fascinating tour of how food has shaped, well, everything!
Holy masculine generic, Batman! That shit is hella distracting, and the book is dated in other ways, too.
I've read this twice cover to cover and possibly three times, I now can't recall with certainty. As of the moment, I feel that I may read it again, it's that well written and that unique.
reading this book kind of made me want to become a food anthropologist.

Tannahill’s work is insanely ambitious in scope, attempting to provide a global survey of food from cave dwellers to modern times.
Even with all, I would go so far to argue that at the time of its publication, she was probably considered woke.Outside of historical quirks, I found the history to be well researched (and cited), engagingly written, and packed full of the weird kind of facts that I love collecting.
Entertaining and fact-packed, although it seems patchy at times. There is a clear focus on Europe and the West, Africa is briefly mentioned.
OK read.
After reading this book I'm amazed mankind survived those early ears. Life certainly wasn't a banquet for early man.
Read this for my food history class. The material is very dry and the author does nothing to make it seem interesting until the very last few paragraphs of the chapters, and in the epilogue.
I read this book almost two years ago and that image has stuck with me.The discovery and cultivation of wheat (fascinating, if one actually stops to think who decided that wheat should be threshed and would taste delicious baked in an oven with yeast and water).
A lot of people don't realize that herbs and spices were put into use not only because they're aromatic and tasty on their own, but because there was no such thing as refridgeration until the 20th century, meat went real bad, real quick.
Tannahill does a good job at making the material accessible to us non-academia types, but still, it can get a bit dry at times.Overall, I learned a lot from this book.
The history of food though, particularly as she progressed towards modern times though got progressively more interesting, perhaps solely because I could relate to it more.I am glad I read this book, but I wouldn't have read it had I not been already researching the history of food.
If you need a good book encompassing human history and food, this is probably a good tome to put on your list.
"Food in History, a panoramic survey of a vast and fascinating subject, will appeal to any and every reader with a general, civilised interest in food and eating.
Spanning over half a million years, this lively account describes the world history of food and the way in which food has influenced the whole course of human development.
This remarkable book confirms that food is still, as it always has been, not only inseparable from the history of the human race but essential to it." That pretty much says it all, very entertaining read!
This is a great book for anyone who appreciates the madness of modern diet preachers.
Tannahill's historical approach is the sanest approach to understanding human eating I've read.
Even though the updated version was published in 1989, she provides a very clear, unbiased history of food.
I love that she spans the globe, too - from her native England and Europe to Australia and the Orient - from prehistory to present.
Tannahill offers no advise on how to eat, but rather a refreshing perspective that just might make you think of food differently.
I gave it 5 stars and yet I abandoned it?!
Yes, it's a good book, but it gives way more than I ever wanted to know about the history of the human diet.
I could read it only up to the ancient Greeks and Romans, then I scanned the Middle Ages and that was it.
Yet, what I found out was fascinating.
For example, some very common sauce that the Romans used (which sounded totally disgusting by the way).
Still, I would recommend it to serious "scholars" of culinary history.
This quite old by now, and I suspect a few of the historical theories may have moved on but it is an engaging read, informative and occasionally dryly humourous. Interesting to see that some 80s food fads and ideas (which have since been debunked!) are treated with skepticism. Well worth reading this wide ranging book considers food histories from the ancient past - paleolithic (but not ridiculous dietary theory!) to modern and and globally. Also worth reading in this field is Taste by Kate Colquhoun which focuses on Britain.
Read this for my Food in History course at college and really enjoyed it.
Here and there it's a bit repetitive, so I gave it the four stars instead of five because the writing could be tightened a bit.
However, the author if British and hilarious here and there, some of the footnotes she adds are just her own comments.
If you're interested in the development of food, farming, meals, cuisine, etc, from really the dawn of time through the 1980s, I'd pick this up, even if you only wanted to read a particular section on Food in Sumer or Fillet of Pegasus.
Out of date, particularly the ending and some conclusions on the latest health claims of particular processed foods. However, the material is still strong throughout and provides a lot of detail...too much to take in with a single reading. With the scope of the book being so large, it has a somewhat fragmented nature, but generally stuck to a timeline structure. A lot of interesting insights into how regional food cultures may have been developed through practical survival of early humans in the areas. An interesting read as long as you enjoy food AND history.
So far so good... a wildly entertaining read for the commute. (At least for me.) Should be required reading for anyone who wants to sound like a total food geek at cocktail parties. You will be able to casually drop historical anecdotes about food like you won't believe.EDIT: I finished it!!! (After getting asymptotically slower as I neared the end...) Reay Tannahill (a historian) is a very cautious and sarcastic writer, never to draw any foregone conclusions, but always tempered with a good sense of humor. Fun read... will keep it around as reference.
This is a very comprehensive book about food from prehistory to the modern world. Pretty much everything is covered right from pre-farming days, although the book doesn't really go into detail about the modern world. I learned a lot from Food in History, including where the word "Entree" comes from (and why people are actually being ignorant when they mock America's use of it to refer to a main course). While it isn't a microhistory, Food in History is light and easy to read, and never becomes slow.
