https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/597853.Gospel_Doctrine
Yet, both President Hinckley and Sister Sheri Dew gave high praise to this book, claiming it to be doctrinally sound and considering Joseph F.
Other things were just humorous, such as the idea that women at the turn of the century were "scandalous" in their attire and that we should avoid studying the writings of philosophers and reading novels.Overall, I found the book uplifting--particularly the sections detailing the life of President Smith.
Smith, but by the editors of the book--and hope that readers will read this book for what it is: sermons and writings of Joseph F.
The gospel is true!Some of my favorite quotes:"After we have done all we could do for the cause of truth, and withstood the evil that men have brought upon us, and we have been overwhelmed by their wrongs, it is still our duty to stand.
To stand firm in the face of overwhelming opposition, when you have done all you can, is the courage of faith.
216).""There is just one power, and one only, that can prevent war among the nations of the earth, and this is true religion and undefiled before God, the Father.
Audio Download from LDSaudio.com, length of recording was 16 hrs 18 min.Read this book around 11/8/07
My love for this prophet has grown many-fold. What a strong, valiant, unyielding man of faith. His own words speak "volumes" about his character.
Of course it was awesome
This is one of the best books I have ever read. President Smith was an amazing man and orator. His wisdom, revelation and simple explanations of doctrine are invaluable.
That's right. I read Chapter 1, then I gave it 5 stars. Reason? An abundance of truth. Almost every sentence can be engraved on any plaque. Now, that's legit.
Beef! It's what's for dinner. This book is loaded to the hilt with the absolute sound scholarly teaching that dispels darkness.
A good resource for his extensive teachings. Some of the writings are dated and a little conservative.
Very informative, I learned things I didn't know!
