https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/706254.When_Comes_the_Spring
Hmmm, surprisingly enough, I've decided I didn't like this book as much as I remembered. Not that it was bad, I think it is just something better enjoyed when you're younger. There were a lot of parts I quite enjoyed, but I found Elizabeth to be kind of....whiny? I do like Wynn though, he's a sweetheart.come find me:www.facebook.com/ReadsAshIG: ash.reads Twitter: @ReadsAsh
While I did enjoy this novel, it didn't hold the same appeal for me as the first book.
Elizabeth's character didn't seem to be as strong as before, and I'm not really that sold on the romance between her and Wynn.
You should probably tell your spouse what's expected of them and what their new life would be like.
It took way too long to get to what I consider the meat of the story, and that's when I started to enjoy it and really is what saved it for me.
An enjoyable continuation of the series about Elizabeth and Wynn. While it isn't the most exciting of books, it has solid storytelling and a strong Christian message. I liked her dog Kip and her friends in the frontier village, and will definitely have to read the next book to see what happens to all of them.
About this book: “After a year of teaching in a one-room schoolhouse on the western frontier, Elizabeth plans her wedding to Wynn Delaney, a member of the Royal Canadian Mounted Police.
Elizabeth and Wynn’s marriage is very sweet and it was very, very clean!Link to review:http://booksforchristiangirls.blogspo...*BFCG may (Read the review to see) recommend this book by this author.
It does not mean I recommend all the books by this author.
Elizabeth only wants to make a white woman friend in the North and is shocked to find that there are only Native Tribal women there (nooooooo /end sarcasm).
She makes no effort to learn the language or culture of the other women in the settlement, instead she gives them tea all the time and now they are all friends (sorry, I did not end the sarcasm above).I gave it two stars because I felt the writing is actually stronger in this book than the first and I did like it being just about Elizabeth and Wynn and their relationship for the majority of this book but I couldn't get past the white savior complex this book had.
I feel as though I should of stopped at book one because this book just went on and on and mostly talked about daily life.
Elizabeth is learning a lot and trying a lot of different things out of her comfort zone in this book which seemed like the main theme to this book.
I also felt that there was a lot of tears in this book.
Other things went on in this book but didn't really take over as the "main drive" of this book.
I feel that I might not continue this series but I would recommend the first book as a standalone.
I really wanted to like this book, but I thought it was incredibly boring.
The first book was great, and it had an interesting plot.
I just didn't feel that same excitement in the plot in When Comes the Spring as I did in the first book.
Wynn didn't come home so I got scared.
There wasn't anything in the story line that made me want to keep reading to see what happens, and there was no real climax in the story.
Overall, an OK book to read before bed, but mostly boring.
Now she and Wynn, her Royal Canadian Mountie, are planning their wedding and their new life together at his outpost in the far north.
Will their love for each other sustain them through a harsh winter, loneliness, and the rigors of life without any of the conveniences they have been accustomed to?I recently posted a review of When Calls the Heart by Janette Oke. Well, not too long ago, I also read the second book in the Canadian West series - When Comes the Spring.
I love Elizabeth and Wynn, and I loved reading about their struggles settling into life in the far north - with no modern conveniences.
Elizabeth is preparing a ridiculously OTT wedding to her Mountie fiance.
Firstly, Elizabeth - who had just married a mountie was going to spend the next four years in the far north wilderness living in the Taiga - refused to wear pants to climb a mountain because she was too ladylike to be seen in trousers.
The unbelievability started there and didn't stop.
The author *tried* to show the character developing...
e.g. coming to accept spending time with the first nations women - but took an easy way out by having Elizabeth befriend a woman who was essentially an aboriginal person with all the qualities of an early 1900s white woman - married to a white man, spoke english with no accent, no strange customs.
In this second book in the series...she is just some silly, little wife to a condescending husband.
You don't need your husband to tell you that!) Elizabeth cries often, and doesn't even know how to make a decision for herself anymore, even though she survived her first year alone at the teacherage the year before.
Another thing in this book that really bothered me is how Elizabeth seems to think that the native people don't know how to survive the harsh winter and need some white mountie police man and his wife to show them how it's done.
Originally posted in the April 2017 Mini ReviewsI really enjoyed this continuation of Elizabeth and Wynn’s story. I feel like it was dashed up somewhat hastily (could even use some editing), but it was still great. I especially liked all Elizabeth’s little escapades and the characters (Nimmie was a favorite, and Wynn, too, of course!).Elizabeth was pretty silly … like not knowing the ‘deer’ is both singular and plural and stuff like that. She’s a schoolteacher. Seems weird that she wouldn’t know that. Also, Beth. Stop acting like a three-year-old. *glares*Still, I’m looking forward to reading book three.~Kellyn Roth
Sunt parca parte din viata lor, Beth este o femeie usor de îndrăgit si de care m am atasat fără să mi dau seama.
Povestea se citeste usor, este scrisa intr un mod absolut minunat si daca după primul volum m am arătat îndrăgostită de autoare, acum întăresc cele spuse încă o dată.
Este o serie absolut superba.
Este despre viata, despre oameni, despre necazurile zilnice si despre puterea de a trece peste tot.
Dumnezeu, își are de asemenea închinate pasaje întregi, si cred ca autoarea mi a răspuns la unele întrebări pe care mi le am pus de a lungul vremii legate de religie.
This book is the second in the Canadian West series written by Janette Oke. I enjoyed the first book, When Calls the Heart, but this one was a bit tedious to get through.
In this book Elizabeth is more prissy and petty than in the first one.
In When Calls the Heart Elizabeth is stronger and more independent.
Marriage was not on her mind and she was determined to have a career as a teacher.
All of s sudden in this book she can't seem to get along without her husband Wynn.
Her neediness in this book was disappointing.
Elizabeth's story continues, as she discovers important lessons about how to make a good marriage, to be a good partner to her Mountie husband, and how to relate to people without prejudice. I actually enjoyed this one more than the first, though again it reminded me of a prettier version of Mrs. Mike.
Still not as good as Mrs. Mike (which I just found in a box my mother sent me), but better than some of the other Janette Oke books. Also too prissy.
Another great continuation of Elizabeth and Wynn! I love the elements of moving north in this book, and Julie is very funny. I feel like Elizabeth has grown so much since the first book! She's learned so much. Content: kiss on the cheek, hugs
Once again, an amazing book of love, heartache and joys with Elizabeth and her Mountie, Wynn. I loved being able to experience life up north and with the Delaneys. So good!!! ❤👍🏼
Once again, an amazing book of love, heartache and joys with Elizabeth and her Mountie, Wynn. I loved being able to experience life up north and with the Delaneys. So good!!! ❤️👍🏼
A light, easy listen.
This was fun read with some great humor and realistic conditions of living with Indians and dealing with the harsh winters of Northern Canada.
Less romance in this one, more wife tips:- your husband is the head of the household- do everything your husband says- ignore your own feelings, please your husband-when your husband comes home from work be happy for goodness sake, no nagging-make sure to have a good meal ready-keep track of everything you spend so your husband can keep track too
Like all of Oke's novels it is a wonderful tale and a nice continuation of the first book.This book takes off a little bit after the first book ends.
Elizabeth is planning her wedding with Wynn and looking forward to a honeymoon in the mountains with him.
She details things well and writes very descriptive characters.I did find another fault with this book that made me like it a little less than her others as well.
In her first book of the series, Oke made Elizabeth a very strong courageous woman who needed no man.
I really enjoyed the book. I liked that Elizabeth was willing to do anything for Wynn, even give up her dream wedding. I really like Nimmie, because she is a sweet lady. I feel bad for Crazy Mary, and think that she should have accepted help.
Elizabeth once braved the frontier to fill a teaching position, but now she'll find out if she has what it takes to make it in the North as the new wife of a Mountie in When Comes the Spring by author Janette Oke.It took some time for me to really get into this second novel in the Canadian West series.
The sweetness around Elizabeth and Wynn's wedding was spread on rather thickly (too thickly), and because Elizabeth had already learned a pretty tough way of life in the West, it seemed strange that she'd now get huffy and/or weepy with Wynn on account of conveniences he can't offer as they start out in the North.But, maybe it's just all the prairie and frontier novels I've read that gave me a low expectation of conveniences--novels that Elizabeth doesn't know about.
This second book in the Canadian West Series took a good look at what happens after characters (and people) say “I Do.” There aren't too many Christian Romance books that even venture past the happily ever after ending and show the lives of the characters after they marry.
I thought this book took both a realistic and yet satisfactory look at marriage.We follow Elizabeth and Wynn as they travel on their honeymoon (which was completely younger reader friendly), overcome their first marital disagreement, and begin setting up house at Wynn's new posting.
It was interesting seeing the contrast between Wynn's confidence and Elizabeth's determination to adjust to her new, harsh surroundings.
Her stories are realistic; her characters as frustrating as they are endearing; and her descriptions enchanting.
But they are sweeping, and they are dramatic in a way that is realistic.
I love watching Elizabeth and Wynn grow through their challenges.
Although they get frustrated with one another, like any couple, they realize that sometimes compromises must be had- and that prayer helps you through the tough spots.I greatly enjoyed reading When Comes the Spring, the 2nd book in Elizabeth and Wynn's journey, and watching them as they try to adapt to living in a rough and unforgiving Northern Canadian village.
Wynn went from a sweet guy to being kind of bossy and condescending and Elizabeth basically just said "well he's my husband and I should be submissive to him." Now granted Wynn had more experience in the wilderness but he seemed like the kind of person who always had to have everything his way.
The characters that made the first book so good were barely in this one.
I would have liked a book about their courtship rather than jumping right into moving to the wilderness.
Definitely not as good as the first one.
Elizabeth talks about submitting to her husband as the head of her household and also there is a bit of the racism of white ways are better.
However, it does accurately reflect the feelings of people during that time period and Elizabeth's ideas of the Natives are expanded and changed a bit as the book progresses.
Otherwise it's a good story about the life changes one must make as people begin marriage to enable a couple to truly find happiness together.
Wynn is right when they argue about the pants and hiking, but not because he's the man and husband and rules over Elizabeth.
3.5 stars!As much as I adore Janette Oke and her series, I thought this book did't have the writing edge as her first one in the series. The story was a bit slow, though still great. As a wife to a "half" native, I completely resonate with this story. I really loved Nimmie and thought the elements of Elizabeth's faith such a beautiful aspect to this book. The fact that she could endure certain things through her faith and ultimately share it in uncertain times, was wonderful! I am interested to know more about the next book.
I must admit, the books are growing on me. Elizabeth has had a great deal of character growth, and for that, I am truly grateful. I'm still not really liking the first person narrative though. There is so much to the story, and I would love it if I could see through a different character's eyes every once in a while.
This book picks up shortly after the end of When Calls the Heart. Again, it's a cute story. One thing that did annoy me was the main character, Elizabeth, seems to cry........a lot. I kinda wanted to smack her and say, "Honey, you need to get over yourself and learn to deal with it."
