https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/133399.The_Comedians
So we have the black humor of conversations about goings-on in Haiti which begin literally as soon as the main character arrives back at his hotel and within minutes finds the body of a government minister in his pool.
They might be Catholics or communists or, like the husband-wife team in the story, even vegetarians.
I am a Protestant nothing.”Other novels I have read about Haiti all portray the same tragic story such as The Kingdom of This World and Love, Anger, Madness: A Haitian Trilogy.
This is without exception my favorite Graham Greene novel. Love and murder in 1960's Haiti among the evil Papa Doc Duvalier's Tonton Macute. The evocation of landscape and murderous heat and voodoo would alone be enough to hold our attention. But there's more than that: there's a great story of intrigue and jealousy. I cannot recommend it highly enough.
The main character, Brown, must be a sort of surrogate for the author: jaded, cynical, fatalistic; a realist who nonetheless has just enough of that kernel of optimism that allows him to hope against hope, to sometimes do the right thing even as the cowardly part of him offers token resistance.The book takes place in Haiti in the early 1960s during the early days of the terroristic reign of the brutal dictator Papa Doc Duvalier, and in the framework of a fictional story Greene somehow conveys an illuminating, vividly rendered portrait of an historical time and place without ever resorting to historical explanations.
I just looked it up on imdb.com and, yes, there is a 1967 movie with, ugh, Burton and Taylor, not at all whom I envisioned for the roles.Perhaps because of its title, I thought the novel would be of a sharp, exaggerated satire, but, no, I suppose the Haiti of Duvalier was surreal enough.
At first meeting the three men described in the GR blurb connected to this edition, I thought Smith, the American, would come across as a buffoon and Jones might be a mere annoyance: once again my expectations were thwarted; there is real heart behind all the characters.
Πρώτα από όλα, το έργο αυτό διαθέτει εξαιρετικές δόσεις χιούμορ κι έναν απίστευτο τρόπο να αποκαλύπτει την ωμή αλήθεια, ενώ είναι συνάμα ατμοσφαιρικό και έχει ολοζώντανους, αξιαγάπητους και ενδιαφέροντες χαρακτήρες.
Η κεντρική ιδέα είναι πως όλοι οι άνθρωποι λίγο ως πολύ υποδυόμαστε ρόλους για μπορέσουμε να σταθούμε και να υπάρξουμε μέσα σε μια κοινωνία.
Έτσι δεν τους νοιάζει και πάρα πολύ που όλα τα κρέατα φεύγουν για την αμερικάνικη αγορά.
Από την άλλη, ούτε οι εισαγωγείς νοιάζονται αν τα κρέατα αυτά συγκεντρώνουν τις σωστές προδιαγραφές μια και όλα τους γίνονται κονσέρβες για τις υπανάπτυκτες χώρες, οι οποίες και τις πληρώνουν με τα χρήματα της αμερικάνικης βοήθειας που παίρνουν.
Photo by Charles CarriéRead by Tim Piggot SmithDescription: Three men meet on a ship bound for Haiti, a world in the grip of the corrupt “Papa Doc” and the Tontons Macoute, his sinister secret police.
Three men walk onto a ship - a Mr Brown, a Mr Smith, and a Mr Jones - this could be mistaken for a maritime Reservoir Dogs, yet a don't think Tarantino's gangsters could match up to the Tontons Macoute and rats as big as terriers.
Εκτός του αφηγητή, ο οποίος είναι έρμαιο του παραδοσιακού Green-ικού διπόλου "καθολικού-παθητικού/ ιδεολόγου εμπλεκομένου", οι δευτερεύοντες χαρακτήρες φαντάζουν στα μάτια μου "χάρτινοι", παρουσίες που πλαισιώνουν τον κεντρικό χαρακτήρα, περισσότερο φορείς ιδεών παρά αυθύπαρκτες μυθιστορηματικές οντότητες με "Ουσία και Βάθος" (τι υπέροχο βιβλίο!).
Ακόμα και η ατελέσφορη -σύνηθες μοτίβο στο έργο του- ερωτική σχέση του μονίμως τυπτόμενου ήρωα, αποτελεί απλό μετείκασμα εκείνης του τραγικού "Τέλους μιας σχέσης", της ωραιότερης ερωτικής ιστορίας, κατά την άποψή μου.
Απλώς μου άφησε την αίσθηση πως όλα εκείνα τα εξέχοντα στοιχεία συγγραφικής ιδιαιτερότητας του Greene ως συγγραφέα εξέλιπαν, και πως θα μπορούσε τελικά να είχε γραφτεί από κάποιον σύγχρονο γραφιά με παρόμοιες ανησυχίες και στυλ.
There's comment here from Greene on how the so-called superpowers of the Cold War supported such horrific regimes for their own political gain sake (can't say much has changed).
In this case the totalitarian regime had the US patronage, as Haiti was seen as a combatant against the spread of communism.
Irony obviously abounds.The protagonist, hotelier Brown (Comedian No. 1), is from what I've read and seen of Greene's own life, a strong reflection of the author himself.
Jones (Comedian no.
Part conman/part hero?
Jones, as the flawed figure in many of Greene's novels, does possess some courageous heroic traits.
What follows is a series of episodes, often comic (as in the Coen Brothers sense of “comic”), as Brown tries to deal with disposing of the body, keeping the Smiths (Holy Fools) out of trouble, having more sex with Martha, and keeping track of the trajectory (Up then Down) of Major Jones – who is brewing up some scheme with the Tonton Macoutes.
In one late Conradian passage, Brown, while meditating on a picture hanging in his hotel, drops his novel long pretence of life as a comedy filled with comedians.

Monstrously good -- and disturbing.A few hundred miles off the Florida coast you'll find "an evil floating slum," says Greene, who makes us aware of the violent and corrupt republic of Haiti.
Most of us don't know anything about Haiti, or care to -- except Americans are  still  advised to stay away.
Yes, it's all very creepy and gives you bad dreams just thinking about the Caribe's 3rd World "nightmare republic" -- a light sail from Key West.Into a ghastly comic Grand Guignol arrives Greene, providing an adulterous affair (well, naturally), at least one death and two suicides easily predicted, and a sprinkle of mystic cologne (well, naturally), along with a voodoo ritual.
What a wonderful novel.Set in Haiti during the reign of Papa Doc Duvalier and his Tonton Macoute, it is the story of three lonely people with the names of Smith, Jones and Brown who meat on a steamer on route to Haiti. This story of love, loss, murder, revenge and jealousy is wonderfully written and truely evokes the feelings of repression and helplessness that must have existed during this period.Graham Greene's writing is as always impeccable and a joy to read.I loved this book, and would highly recommend it to others.
Secondly, for a book that pretends to be a political thriller (of sorts), the plot is simply much, much too loose.
After reading a book as meticulously constructed as Feast of the Goat (Vargas Ilosa), or the best of John LeCarré (for instance), such slovenliness in construction simply doesn't make the grade.
Moreover -- some of the characters (the Smiths, notably) -- and make no mistake -- this book lives or dies on its characters, even more than on its plot -- rarely rise about the caricatural; and even Jones (who has great promise as a character) ends up appearing more ridiculous than full-bodied.Such things are probably subjective.
But this book left me colder than it should have.
We are bad comedians, we aren't bad men."I started out thinking I was going to just read a 'minor' Greene, and finished the novel once again shocked by my ability to completely underestimate Greene.
The Comedians is a dark tragedy set in a Haitian Hell ruled by Papa Doc and his Tonton Macoute.
Into this tortured hell floats Brown, the Smiths and Jones.
This sad troupe each struggles with overcoming fear, death, love and apathy while dancing on the edge of the abyss.
It reminded me a little of Under the Volcano, but instead of one man's struggle with mescal, it is humanity's struggle with apathy and fear.
The Comedians is almost - almost - as dark as a pair of Tontons Macoute sunglasses.https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=n_g_n...After I finished reading The Comedians, I read Paul Theroux's introduction and wondered why he wrote it, since his opinion of it is not very high.
After very little thought, the answer is that he was paid to write it and it was just another writing gig.
Then I wondered why Penguin accepted his introduction and printed it.
I couldn't come up with an answer for that one.
If I were the publisher, I would have paid him and told him to hit the road and to take his intro with him.

As with most GG books, it shares a tropical but not exotic setting: Haiti, under François Duvalier, un-affectionately known as “Papa Doc”, elected president in 1957 on a populist and black nationalist platform, who ruled the poverty-stricken country from 1957 to 1971 by means of the Tonton Macoute, an undercover death squad, which killed ruthlessly and indiscriminately—at least as feared by native Haitians as the KGB and/or the SS were in their respective times and countries.Into this setting sails the main character, Brown, the story’s narrator, a disillusioned part-English, native Monacan, returning to claim the hotel left by his deceased mother.
But before you dismiss the Smiths as comic figures—as I was wont to do at first—that isn’t what GG has in mind by his title.By comedians, Greene is actually making reference to The Divine Comedy, the ultimate Story where we all dwell whether or not we acknowledge it.
Non avrei mai pensato di abbandonare un libro di Graham Greene, non è un abbandono definitivo perchè è Greene, ma evidentemente per me non è il suo momento.
And Greene does Haiti well; it seems like they were made for each other, though I've got the feeling Greene can evoke any place pretty well.
I do feel compelled to quote one of the funnier moments as representative of the novel, even though it's really not representative of the novel...Major (maybe) Jones is a scam artist (maybe) who needs to be smuggled out of Haiti, so naturally he dresses as a woman -- but in a costume rather than a legitimate outfit.
He corrects them thus: "MAJOR Jones .
He creates characters that warrant compassion due to the circumstances in their lives and he lets us see how these circumstances lead to their imbalances of belief.
And through this process, Greene lets us know that while we may ultimately see the comedy in the actions of others, the price we pay for the transformation is a bit of our own humanity.I believe that Heller knew of this transformation and used it masterfully within the pages of Catch-22; the difference being that Heller deconstructed comedy and invoked a state of compassion in his readers.
Greene, however, deconstructs compassion and lets his readers feel the price for comedy.
The references to voodoo and the haunting figure of Papa Doc just emphasize that bleak irony that shines throughout the story."Now that I approached the end of life it was only my sense of humour that enabled me sometimes to believe in Him. Life was a comedy, not the tragedy for which I had been prepared, and it seemed to me that we were all, on this boat with a Greek name (why should a Dutch line name its boats in Greek?), driven by an authoritative practical joker towards the extreme point of comedy.
Graham Greene is my new favorite author. Paul Theroux dissed this book in his introduction, but it was just Paul Theroux showing that he doesn't know much. This is sort of a book about Haiti and totalitarianism and brutality and corruption and the Evil Empire (America) but it is more a book about loss, rootlessness, the emptiness of the middle of the night, fatherlessness, faith and lack thereof... Greene is deep, clean, concise. Theroux says that it seems dated 40 years on, but that's only if you focus on car models and the like. It's not dated -- it's haunting.
I found the plot and the characters to be less developed than in other Graham Greene novels I've read. An OK read, but not his best.
However, it starts with the key characters named Brown the hotel owner, Smith the innocent American and Jones the British former soldier who are on their way across the Atlantic to Haiti by the Medea, a cargo-ship of the Royal Netherlands Steamship Company.
As for this query, the mentioned trio should deserve the honorary role as the central characters whose dialogs and actions are occasionally intermingled with amusing and semi-horrible episodes, for instance, when they introduce themselves:'You must forgive me,' Mr Smith replied with courtesy, 'but I don't touch alcohol.''I don't touch it myself,' Jones said, 'I drink it,' and he suited the action to the words.
Many great reviews have been written on this book, and if you are looking for some piece of info that will help you pick your next fav book, this isn't the right one for you to read. Once again, this book was one that fed my theme-addict lust for dark, gloomy noir sort of scenery. Loved the stuff, got super depressed through the whole thing, and felt for all the characters. My favorites are the Smiths, they were so perfectly real. I will read more from John Greene later on.
The edition I have begins with a letter to a publisher which we would be better without. Because the story is told by one of the characters, Greene points out that Brown is not Greene. Well, I wouldn't have thought of that! Then he notes that Brown, like Greene, is a Catholic. He justifies this on statistical grounds, which is just about as stupid as you can get. 'It is often forgotten that, even in the case of a novel laid in England, the story when it contains more than ten characters would la
Then he notes that Brown, like Greene, is a Catholic.
So Brown is a comedian because he isn't serious.
The fact that he doesn't have a faith is cited (by the publisher) as evidence that Smith is a comedian, thus turning reality on its head.
But the publisher may not be right in suggesting that Greene intended Smith to be a comedian.
If he did, he was in a different category – the unintentional comedian.In fact, Greene comes at it from at least one other angle, which does not require faith.'Neither of us would ever die for love.
Graham Greene's "The Comedians" is a enthralling, gripping, and cryptic novel.
It ranks, for me, as one of the best novels I have read by this amazing author, alongside "The Quiet American" and "Our Man in Havana." Mr Greene uses historical backgrounds, such a pre -US.
involvement in Vietnam, Post World War 2 Germany, and in "The Comedians" the Haitian takeover by Papa Doc as well as any novelists.
The characters in "The Comedians" are so fascinating and mysterious that they almost remind one of Hemingway characters.
His writing is superb and I highly, highly, recommend "The Comedians." A MARVELOUS PIECE OF WRITING!
Είναι το πρώτο βιβλίο του Γκράχαμ Γκρην που διαβάζω, σίγουρα όχι όμως και το τελευταίο. Ξεκινά παλιομοδίτικα, αλλά σελίδα τη σελίδα με κατακτούσε όλο και πιο πολύ, με αποτέλεσμα από ένα σημείο και μετά να μην μπορώ να το αφήσω από τα χέρια μου. Αληθινοί χαρακτήρες, εξαιρετική ανάπλαση ενός τόπου και μιας εποχής που δεν πολυγνωρίζουμε (Αϊτή την εποχή της δικτατορίας του Πάπα Ντοκ), βαθιά φιλοσοφικό. Για κάποιον λόγο μου θύμισε Καζαντζάκη, τόσο το Ζορμπά όσο και τον Καπετάν-Μιχάλη.
It was fun just as long as with great agility one patted balls around: it was only when a ball fell to the ground one had the sense of an impersonal wound, like a dead dog on an arterial road.The Haitian characters are memorable as well, including "Petit Pierre" a dapper journalist who somehow treads the unstable ground between appraising & reporting on visitors to Haiti and the Tonton Macoute, Dr. Magiot, a surgeon who is described as "very big & very black but possessed of great gentleness", Joseph who works as a factotum & last employee at Brown's hotel, being primarily in charge of mixing Rum Punches for the owner of the Trianon, even when there are no guests to tend to and also a man named Philipot, a wizened Haitian longing to depose Papa Doc & kin to someone who commits suicide early on, having been driven to despair by the despotism of Duvalier.
به نام اومقلدهای گرین به مانند بیشتر آثارش در کشوری به غیر از زادگاه نویسنده میگذرد، در یکی از کشورهای کوچک آمریکای مرکزی: هائیتیمقلدها سرگذشت مردمان تحت سلطه دیکتاتوری هائیتی به نام پاپادودوک استرمان تمام مولفههای سایر آثار گرین را دارد: سیاست، عشق، ماجراهای جنایی و طنز خاص گرینولی به نظر من مقلدها جزو آثار متوسط این نویسنده بریتانیاییست، رمان شروع خوبی داردو با ضرباهنگ معقولی پیش میرود ولی در اواسط کار از ریتم میافتد و به جایی که نویسنده به توصیف بیشتر این دیکتاتوری مخوف بپردازد (نمونه متعالیش
به نام اومقلدهای گرین به مانند بیشتر آثارش در کشوری به غیر از زادگاه نویسنده می‌گذرد، در یکی از کشور
