https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7681.Five_Patients
Five Patients, one of his earliest works and one of his handful of non-fiction books, is not only a look at a modern (keep in mind the book was written in 1970) hospital but also serves as Crichton's denunciation of some troubling problems in the practice of medicine.
Crichton's research is thorough as always and some of the sections pertaining to medical history are captivating.
If any of the material seems familiar, keep in mind that Crichton drew upon these experiences when he co-created the TV show ER.
A mother of three is diagnosed with a life-threatening disease.My reactionsThese five patients’ cases are used to illustrate the workings of a large academic medical center: Massachusetts General Hospital.
Crichton, best known for thrillers and the TV show E.R., wrote this nonfiction explanation of how a hospital works when he was barely out of medical school himself – November 1969.
The system of training new physicians has changed little, though residents no longer have the gruelingly long hours that were the norm when Crichton was writing.
(A friend recently had a mastectomy as an outpatient procedure!)So, while this work is obviously dated, I still found it interesting.
What Crichton has done is use the five different cases to explain current trends in medicine.
They are just random health anomalies or accidents which are used to helped transition into different topics of medicine.The explanations are very in depth and well thought out, but they are not very interesting to read for the common person.
These problems still exist and it was interesting to some degree to read more in depth to some of the problems plaguing the health care system.For the most part, this book is not your typical Michael Crichton book.
It focuses more on factual evidence on the trends in medicine and hospitals rather than actual story and excitement.
Meh. Disappointing read for me here.
Čekala jsem román, vyfasovala jsem odbornou studii amerického zdravotnictví.
3,5 stars

I have always found medicine a very interesting field (only to read about, though), and my first surprise was how easy this book was to read.
And the second surprise was how the statistics have been presented, to represent healthcare as an industry.
It also reminds you that a hospital is not a non-profit place, and why its in the patient's best interest that it remain that way.This book made me feel a whole lot smarter, and gave me more insight to an industry I knew nothing about but will be involved with for as long as I am alive.
Die Vorlage für die TV-Serie "Emergency Room".
Allerdings haben diese beiden Sachen - außer der Idee - nichts weiter miteinander zu tun.
Stattdessen beschreibt der Autor, der einst selbst Medizin studierte bevor er ein Bestseller-Autor wurde, wie das Leben in einer Notaufnahme ist.
Neueste medizinische Entwicklungen kommen ebenso zur Sprache wie das Sozialsystem der USA.
Das ganze ist in einem sehr dokumentarischen Stil geschrieben (obwohl es auch gut möglich ist, dass die Fälle in dieser Form vollständig erfunden sind.) Zu bedenken ist: dieses Buch wurde erstmals 1970 veröffentlicht, und daher sind die "neuesten Entwicklungen" für uns gar nicht mehr so neu.
I plowed through his fiction works in my (very) early twenties, originally borrowing them from a co-worker.
After I ran through his collection, I went on to buying my own used Crichton books until I was pretty much out of options.I picked up Five Patients at Goodwill for fifty cents on half price Saturday.
Moving through it pretty quickly, I was swept away by the stories included in it, and even more so, I was taken in by just how much WORSE our health care system in America has become since Five Patients was published.It's an eye opening read, certainly.
A fascinating look into the world of a hospital. It is not so much a look at 5 interesting cases as much as it is a look at the way though cases effect the surrounding environment of the hospital itself. This is all accompanied by interesting looks into the history of how this all came to be.
Earlier Michael Crichton, an interesting read. Despite being so pop-culture, I have to admit a weakness for MC because he's a science nerd and so am I. :)
This gives you an interesting insight into his medical years. It was interesting.
In Five Patients we get his perspective on the medical field, specifically patient care and the way hospitals are run.This book was first written in 1970 when Crichton was 28, which is important since we take a look at how medicine was done at that time, what the worries of the future were in regards to the evolution of patient care and how hospitals would run decades later.
It's interesting to see how some things have evolved and others have stayed the same.He wonders about surgeries, how sometimes surgeons would do surgeries simply to practice and not for the patient (appendectomies for example), and how he sees that at that point in time the physician's job is to make surgeries the last resort.
(+) An interesting way of discussing problems relating to the American healthcare system and the way in which hospitals are run by using five different patients as examples – though this takes away much of the focus from the patients themselves.
(-) From the blurb (and title!), I expected more of a patient-centred book – I was interested in what happened to the construction worker injured in the scaffold collapse, perhaps more from the viewpoint of the patient instead of what effectively was a case presentation followed by a discussion about something to do with the way hospitals or medical schools are run.
I picked this book up because I'm a big fan of the show ER and Michael Crichton is the Creator.
It tells you the story of 5 different patients coming into the emergency room of a teaching hospital in Boston.
The cases set up a scenario and Michael goes on to tell about how much medicine has changed in a short period of time and yet how some things took an extremely long time to be accepted.
Also he foresees many things that have now occurred or are currently being debated.
A very interesting book if you are interested in the inner workings of a hospital.
It starts as an interesting read that shows some interesting facts about the development of medicine through time. The author uses five different cases to further illustrate this.Unfortunately the last quarter of the book becomes a rant about studying medicine and becomes a bit... long-winded and boring.
Overall it's a pretty good book, if you're interested in the medical field. As other people mentioned it isn't a novel but past experiences from the author. If anyone is interested in a career in medicine I'd highly reccomend this book as you'll learn everything from the history of medicine, to surgical operations.
A little dated (this was first published in 1970) but still provided some interesting insights. Was intriguing to see the use of closed circuit TV medical consultations which, as far I know, have not really taken off since.
this book did not meet my expectations. I thought it would be like one of his novels. I was wrong. This is basically a history of hospitals and patient care. I have to admit I skimmed through parts of this book.
Some interesting bits but a bit outdated today.
As a long running fan of E.R., I really enjoyed this. And it was interesting to see how medicine, hospitals and even medical costs were so different in the late 60's than they are now
I get the appeal of this book and I love Crichton (probably my favorite author), but this just wasn't for me. Well written and some fascinating stuff, but I could take it or leave it.
They forget perhaps that medicine is for the people, not for the doctors  Well this was interesting despite being quite outdated, and quite boring at times.
Michael Crichton wrote this book in 1970, when a month-long stay in a hospital, fully inclusive, cost around $6,000.
The author decried escalating costs and how much things were going to have to change...to make medicine affordable and a right for all.
He declared a type of socialized medicine would be necessary but, as Americans, we were stubborn to adopt customs, even if they were working well, from other countries.
Obamacare is the first draft, in a positive change, to address all these issues that were already recognizable in 1970.
An interesting historical perspective on healthcare circa 1970.
It's amazing how little has changed 45 years later---add a few zeros to the costs, factor in defensive medicine and the lack of tort reform, watered-down universal healthcare.
A lot of the innovations that Crichton foresaw have been killed by the omnipresent threat of lawsuits and unabated governmental intrusion.
Computers could have revolutionized medical care but are primarily used for billing purposes and data collection for payers.
The history-taking program Crichton described in 1970 is better from a purely medical perspective than all the current million dollar EMR's sanctioned by our overreaching government.
When I picked this book up, I didn't even know that it was non fiction.
After starting I thought that I wouldn't continue after a few pages.
However, those few pages were all it took me.This is a brilliant book from cover to cover.
I almost felt like being a part of the day to day operations of the hospital, even though I have no medical training at all.
The severed arm chapter is a favorite, where he details the surgery procedure.It really is an amazing, almost first person insight into medical school.
Medical students would love it, I think.
non-fiction work here about hospitals rather than '5 patients'.
I found fascinating the frontier days of hospitals.
I never thought how these facilities began only how I see them now.some areas of the reading were dull due to outdated guesses by MC of future methods in hospitals.
what you're getting most times is in depth realities of everyday hospital life as of the 1960s, which is interesting but being not current hurts a bit.
the writing style is straightforward and not thrilling as with MC fictional works so that slows down reading.
if you're intrigued about hospitals and what goes inside about what you don't know about this is for you.
My star rating is skewed based on I didn't get what I was expecting or wanting from this book.
I knew it was non-fiction and I was expecting a mix of the shows "ER" (which Crichton created)and the medical mysteries of "House." Instead, Crichton chose five patients that weren't medically interesting in the least - just every day possible ailments and did absolutely nothing with the drama of seeking aid and health.
Instead, he used mundane patients to spend more time illustrating the hospital system at that time.
Not only was the book grossly outdated, but just not interesting.
This book was definitely not what I was expecting, but I was pleasantly surprised.
Crichton doesn't investigate and discuss the cases of 5 patients, he briefly gives some detail and then use them to transition into trends and different topics of medicine and hospitals in general.
Five Patients contains a lot of detail and insights but the information is broken down and presented in a way that is easy to read.
It was interesting to see that a lot of problems that the medical industry faced at the time of writing is still present today in some form.
The book gave me more insight into an industry that I know very little about.
