https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/475339.Madeline
Coincidence?Marianne Werefkin
I read this for BookTubeAThon to fulfill the "read a book older than you" challenge. I remember having and reading this book as a kid, but now I'm kind of confused about what a kid would get out of the story. I guess it's just fun with the pictures and rhymes, but I didn't see much meaning (other than copy your friends? Wish you have an illness to be one of the cool kids?). I really have no idea how to rate this as an adult.
I did read this as a child where I distinctly remember laughing over and over again at Madeline saying 'Pooh-Pooh' to the tiger at the zoo.
Funny thing is, both the kids laugh at that same line to this day.This was a Newbery Honor book which shows you how awards boards can get things wrong.
This is still one of the most popular books and it should have won, which is why they gave Madeline to the rescue the Medal when it came out to make up for their miss, I assume.
Maybe this is where my France obsession came from.
Madeline means a lot to us, partly because we grew up with it, and partly because on our kid's stomach is also a scar - his guts were like all in the wrong place or whatever - so it has Special Meaning for us.I'm the one on the left.
Maybe he likes that Joanne and I collapse in hysterics every time we get to the doctor dialing DAN-ton ten six, which by the way is also the name of our imaginary children's band, but this is far from the only children's book that makes us collapse in hysterics.
Some day maybe he'll read it to his kid, and he'll know it by heart too.
"In an old house in Paris that was covered with vines Lived twelve little girls in two straight lines In two straight lines they broke their bread And brushed their teeth and went to bed.
They left the house at half past nine In two straight lines in rain or shine- The smallest one was Madeline."Who doesn't remember the first lines from the classic childrens book Madeline!?
As a young girl I adored this book.
I think every young girl does.
Thus, I would and do actually and even gladly recommend the French translation (Madeleine) above and beyond Ludwig Bemelmans' original (but with the caveat that the text, that Christian Poslaniec's words indeed do appear entirely in French, and while not in any way overly difficult and overly involved, an elementary fluency, especially with regard to vocabulary and verb forms is nevertheless both suggested and required).
Although I absolutely adore author/illustrator Ludwig Bemelmans' expressive and detailed illustrations (that simply shine and glow with the spirit of Paris, with the spirit of both time and place), the accompanying narrative and especially the rhyme schemes are at times rather majorly choppy and anything but smooth.
And truly, for me as an adult reader (who never did read of have Madeline read to me as a child), the unevenness of the rhymes and their at times almost painful artificialness, this does tend to feel rather distracting, and to the point of even making me feel a bit on the outside looking in, a bit disconnected from Madeline and her friends.
Geez, I love this book. Wonderfully illustrated, and it still gives me such feels!
BookTube-A-Thon Challenge #1 Read a book with yellow ok the cover.BookTube-A-Thon Challenge #5 Read a book that is older than you.
I'm quite sure my mom read this to me as a child--she gave us the most beautiful children's book selections through books she acquired at garage sales or checked out from the library--but I don't really have any warm-fuzzies attached to it so I'm guessing it was not a favorite.It's still not a favorite.
It wasn't as much about Madeline herself as I expected (though I could appreciate her spunk and see where she could have many appealing adventures in subsequent books.) And some of the rhyme schemes felt awkward to me.
I guess that, compared to many of the other children's books (or, rather, lack thereof) available at the time, this would be a very welcomed series.
Madeline is one of those books that has been in print for so long that everyone seems to know the story even without necessarily having read it.
Ian went out and bought a copy for Sean.The story is told through a simple rhyme taken a few words at a time across pages.
The bulk of the tale though is in the illustrations as Madeline and her classmates walk in their "two straight lines" before many famous Parisian sites.Each page seems too simple but there is no line nor color nor word wasted.
So if you read the book, read it once at normal speed to enjoy the words.
This is one of my childhood favorites.
This may be strange.
Even as a child, I had a sense there was something going on between Madeline and Pepito.
I felt they had a thing going on.
You know, "Romantically".
What the hell is wrong with me!
They were kids and yet I could sense something.
I loved the French story and the all the girls and their quirks.
It's a cute story.
I used to adore the cartoon too.
Yeah.
Sometimes I just want to take my head off, I'm so fucked up.
PLUS SHE'S TOTALLY BAD-ASS!
It's been several years since I've read this classic picture book, but I found my old copy from when I was a kid yesterday, and it's still a story that holds up. Timeless, full of wonderful paintings of Paris scenery and very creative, Madeline is unforgettable.
I absolutely adored the tv series growing up so reading the books it was based on was a special dose of nostalgia. The artwork is truly gorgeous, which I loved. I can clearly see why it's a timeless classic.
I had actually never read 'Madeline' though I knew it was a classic.
I liked it!Watch a quick kid's review of this book!Ages: 5 - 8Cleanliness: there is a picture of a girl in her underwear.#geography #europe #france #paris**Like my reviews?
I also have hundreds of detailed reports that I offer too.
These reports give a complete break-down of everything in the book, so you'll know just how clean it is or isn't.
I also have Clean Guides (downloadable PDFs) which enable you to clean up your book before reading it!
Visit my website: The Book Radar.
This is a classic, must-read book for children.
When this was published back in 1939, Bemelmans presented us with a wonderful story of Paris and a little girl who is rushed to the hospital due to an attack of appendicitis.
I understood little of what was going on at the age of 5 or 6 when I first read this book, but being in the hospital with flowers and toys and having everyone admire Madeline's scar, hooked me.
Now I have most of Bemelmans books on my bookshelf and love each one.
This was a selection for the Goodreads children's picture book group.
2016 Reading Challenge:  A book that's guaranteed to bring you joyGiven the fact that I've just unearthed this beauty from a box of mementos, this might just become the year of me rereading childhood favourites and I am perfectly okay with that.
This is a sweet - and funny - story about a French orphan who has to have to appendix removed. (What? That's not dramatic at all ...)
just remembering how much I absolutely adore this book[mostly because Amal Clooney looked like Madeline @ the Royal Wedding]
This book basically details Madeline’s earliest adventures from standing up bravely to a ferioucious tiger to having a bad case of appendicitis.Ludwig Bemelmans’ writing is creative and sweet as he writes the story in a rhyming text that efficiently narrates the story.
Ludwig Bemelmans’ illustrations are simplistic and creative, especially of the images of the landscape of Paris including the Eiffel Tower being colorful while the regular situations between the girls and Miss Clavel are in yellow, white, and black colors.“Madeline” is one of Ludwig Bemelmans’ finest book yet since it led to “Madeline” having many sequels and even a television series that was popular during the mid 90’s.
This is another classic to add to my collection of reviews.
Madeline won the 1940 Caldecott Award, and it has been a mainstay on classroom shelves.
A lot of people have very fond memories associated with it.
The story is simple and rhythmic - there's really not a lot to it.
The illustrations tell most of the story, and there has always been something about this book that stands out as different for me.
The illustrations always captivated me, but it's hard for me to say I love the look of everything in the book.

Loved it! This is a classic children's book with wonderful illustrations and rhyming verses.I read this book many many times when I was young and to my children when they were young.The story of French schoolgirl Madeline is timeless and includes picture references of many famous Paris landmarks including the Eiffel Tower, The Louvre and Notre Dame. I read this book for free on We Give Books.
Madeline, a student at a Paris boarding school, finds herself hospitalized for an appendectomy. The book is written in rhyme. Children can be grateful hospital stays are shorter than when the book was written. While the illustrations may not appeal to today's youngsters as much as they did to earlier eras, they are still excellent, showing what can be done with minimal colors. It's a classic 1940 Caldecott honor book which stood the test of time.
I may have heard about this series/this book before, however it really came to my attention yesterday, when someone I friended on Goodreads read this one.
It looked fun, and right up my alley.And did it turn out to be that way?
Yes, though it wasn't because of the so-called timelessly appealing art (What was so appealing to it?), but because of the adorable story with wonderful, sweet characters.
Especially Madeline quickly turned to a favourite with her bravery, but also with how she stood out from all the others.
It did seem that some scenes got more attention then others (especially if those scenes featured French buildings).
I ran across this book today, and had a flood of childhood memories. I love Madeline, perhaps because she is French, Parisian, and Catholic, three things which I was not (and still am not). She also has a sense of adventure and fearlessness, which is not always common in stories about little girls. There is always a bit of a fascination with orphans too when one is a child-- not that one wishes bad to come to their parents, but the thought of a child without proper adult supervision is sort of exciting. I LOVE YOU MADELINE!
This book has ALWAYS been a favorite for me.
I reread this book since it was on the list of top-100 picture books.
Madeline is the smallest of all the girls in her boarding school, but she is also the bravest.
One night she needs to get her appendix out, and her friends become jealous of the attention she gets in the hospital.
I loved the pictures in this book and would pick it up just to see the beautiful paintings.
I remember staying up late and looking at the pictures in this book with a flashlight under the covers.
I can always go for a reread of this one.
A beautiful library book, enjoyed for its illustrations and most unlikely misbehaving heroine, who was always loved and never punished after her downfalls. I understood fiction at an early age! Lol.
My daughter loved this book!!!
My umpteenth reread, and I still adore it.
