https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/63477.Pictures_of_the_Gone_World
East coasters are likely to be half-mad, drug-crazed experimenters, wandering spirits and introspective soloists of the avant guard; West coasters are likely to be more outgoing, comfortable with large groups and popular success, and willing to keep the day-job.It’s only fair to point out that Ferlinghetti was born in New York, but after Chapel Hill, the navy (during WW II), graduate school at Columbia, and a doctorate from the Sorbonne, he settled down—at the age of thirty-two—in the city of San Francisco, where he painted, taught French, and made a little extra money writing art criticism and translations.
"crazy / to be alive in such a strange / world", indeed.
Yes, I love beatnik poetry. Don't judge me.
Read in 1992. My favorite, which I copied out and put on my apartment refrigerator:Number 8It was a face which darkness could kill in an instant a face as easily hurt by laughter or light 'We think differently at night' she told me once lying back languidly And she would quote Cocteau 'I feel there is an angel in me' she'd say 'whom I am constantly shocking' Then she would smile and look away light a cigarette for me sigh and rise and stretch her sweet anatomy let fall a stocking
A delightful collection. I was surprised by its lightness & luminousness, but then again i guess the Beats were really into Zen, so. These poems, most of which describe every-day moments, are very accessible and would make a fine intro to poetry to new-comers to the genre, i think.
Lawrence Ferlinghetti remarked that whereas City Lights co-founder Peter Martin was born into an anarchist family, son of Carlos Tresca, "I was getting my anarchist ideas from Kenneth Rexroth," adding that his poetry has become more political with time.
One certainly gets the sense that his writing became more political when reading "Pictures of the Gone World" in comparison with, say, "Tyannus Nix" or "Time of Useful Consciousness," or some of the poems from "Americus" (I haven't read it all yet).
Wonderful works. The expanded collection has 12 or so poems not in the original book. Very good.
For almost five years, this short book of poetry was never more than a few feet from me. The idea of "Pocket Poetry" was never more seriously instantiated.
this book is like concept art. just really don't get it hey lawrence what u up to
And, taken out of context, some of those lines can pack a punch—just as much as an entire poem in wholeness can, actually.
Although I’ve found some lines actually lose their punch because of the rest of the poem, but I digress.Overall, at times the arrangement of the poems grated on my nerves.
Because the poems lines were broken enough times, I heard pauses in my head, which made for stilted reading.
After all, as I saw pointed out on tumblr, just because you hit enter a lot doesn’t make it a poem.Eh. Reviewing poetry is always an odd thing that I’m never sure I do right.
After I read Poetry as Insurgent Art I found that I liked Ferlinghetti's style, although I thought is was unpolished. It might have just been that book, since Pictures of the Gone World, Ferlinghetti's first book, is a lot smoother. The way he plays with rhythm and rhyme inspires me, and the way he incorporates classical themes and images in his decidedly contemporary poetry gets a cool nod of approval. In short, Ferlinghetti might just be my favorite poet
i do not read poetry very often, but when I do, i love it.A WORLD IS A BEAUTIFUL PLACE TO BE BORN INTOis a proof for me, that I always find the best things accidentally.it was kind of a book, i could read every day before sleep, like whole month, and never have enough of its feelings.
I'm not big into poetry, but Ferlinghetti packs as much story into poetic verse as most people stretch out over a whole novel. #21 is my personal favorite.
"I too have drunk and seen/ the spider"
Loved this wild poetic ride!
Lawrence Ferlinghetti writes real psychedelic words, with mind blowing ideas couched in words simple enough for a child to get, complex enough to keep reading it all your life.
While most people may know Lawrence Ferlinghetti as the man who published the controversial Howl poem by Allan Ginsberg, his own abilities as a poet are extremely underrated and he was sadly over shadowed by many of his contemporaries and other poets he published.The poems in Pictures of the Gone World are written in a post-modern style.
He is a good middle ground between the direct, almost harshness of Bukowski’s language and the more structured, contemplative style of guys like Allan Ginsberg.I loved this book and it’s made me a new Ferlinghetti fan.
I would recommend this book to anyone who loves more post-modern poetry.
I loved - Away above a harborful, In Paris in a loud dark winter, Not too long, And the Arabs asked terrible questions, London, Crazy, Dada would have liked a day like this, Picasso's acrobats epitomize the world, The world is a beautiful place, Reading Yeats I do not think, And each poem a picture, 'Pale horse pale rider', Surfers are poets too, At the Hopper house, and As in a play by Jean-Paul Sartre.
ah Ferlinghetti. I submitted a poetry manuscript to his City Lights publishing co, still have the rejection letter. this is a great collection with sensual images, a bit of humor, and beautiful lyricism and lines
A gorgeous, slim, accessible collection from a thoroughly underrated Beat poet.
This is fun stuff. Deliciously absurd, at times reminding me of Luis Buñuel.
Cool, lithe, jazzy, grungy, lyrical. Not revelatory, but enjoyable nonetheless.
I don’t love poetry but I love this.
#25
In terms of his use of sprawling form, lines unanchored to any margin, but rather, floating in this ether-like white space, perhaps this is meant to express that disjunctiveness between the "gone world" and modernity, i.e. reading Yeats does not make him "think / of Ireland, / but of midsummer New York," and the Yeats book he found on the El. For me, really the only memorable poem in this collection is "The world is a beautiful place / to be born into," because I believe it's here that he starts to reconcile the encroachment of the modern world into the "gone world."
These short poems really do come across as pictures, vignettes heavy on imagery and wry humor, though a little short at times on emotional content. They're like little watercolors; the writing style is a bit "spacy" for my taste (heavy on space on the page and one or two words per line, I suppose a "jazzy", beat style), but this is inspiring in terms of how much can be communicated compactly and vividly. There's a great use of rhyme throughout, very playful. I liked A Coney Island of the Mind better, but these are also good.
Tempted to give it a 3 1/2, but I have a history of being harsh on poetry. So I'll call it a soft 4."A poem is a mirror walking down a strange street.""Silence hung like a lost idea.""And each poem a picture at an exhibition upon a blank wall made of concrete chaos."That last one makes me wonder if he was referencing Mussorgsky.
Is there really anything I can add about this collection of poems by the man with the vision of City Lights? More surrealist that "Coney Island of the Mind" this collection contains some of Ferlinghetti's most iconic poems. If you're a Beat fan and you haven't yet picked up "Pictures..." then you aren't a Beat fan.
Reading Yeats I do not thinkof Arcadyand of its woods which Yeats thought deadI think insteadof all the gone facesgetting off at midtown placewith their hats and their jobsand of that lost book I hadwith its blue cover and its white insidewhere a pencil had writtenHORSEMAN, PASS BY!
Fantastic. This was really mind-blowing. I am lost for words as to how Ferlinghetti is able to hit those rhythms and find the perfect words and leave you acheing for more. Incredibly strong first book from a poet/author. Highly recommended. Can't wait to read Coney Island of the Mind soon.
