https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3293821-the-last-straw
i want to read this book soooooooooooooo bad because the first 2 were pretty funny. i cant wait!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
I read often that the book appeals to reluctant readers and I would seriously challenge that.
It appeals to ALL readers in fifth grade.
(I am not giving anything away here, it will just be much funnier when you read it yourself) Greg had gone to a sleep-over with Rowley.
-- Okay, maybe in a slightly less mature world.I suspect my students will soon be calling each other "Ploopy" just as they were all giving the "Cheese Touch." One of my favorite story lines in the book was about Manny's "Tingy." Can't decide if "Ploopy" is a compliment or not?
The wimpy kid books never fail to make me laugh.
I hope that kids see that the reason Greg gets himself into trouble all the time is because of his attitude.
Instead of looking up to him, it's my hope that kids who read this book say, "Man, if Greg just treated people with a little more respect then maybe he wouldn't always get himself into these bad situations."I've said it in other reviews of these books before, but I'll say it again: I don't think Greg's physique is wimpy; I think his character is.
تاریخ نخستین خوانش: بیست و دوم ماه سپتامبر سال 2012 میلادیعنوان: خاطرات یک بیعرضه: جلد سوم، دفترچه سبز؛ نویسنده و تصویرگر: جف کینی؛ مترجم: ندا شادنظر؛ مشخصات نشر: تهران، ایران بان، چاپ نخست 1389، در 224 ص، مصور، فروست: خاطرات یک بیعرضه جلد 3، شابک جلد 3: 9789642980840؛ چاپ پنجم 1392؛ موضوع: داستانهای فکاهی مصور، دفترچه های خاطرات، مدرسه ها، داستان؛ گروه سنی ب و ج - سده 21 مشخصیتهای داستانهای طنز دفترچه خاطرات یک بیعرضه: گریگوری (گرگ) هفلی؛ رودریک هفلی؛ سوزان هفلی؛ فرانکلیم (فرانک) هفلی؛ راولی جفرسون.
ا. شربیانی
This doesn’t sit well with Mr.Wimpy, who was looking forward to a summer of playing video-games and sleeping....snarfing down junk-food and sleeping....hooking up with the pretty Holly Hills and yep, catching up on some more sleep.The Wimpy Kid series may be considered juvenile and trite.
But it’s entertaining and you read it with a constant smile playing on your lips.
He is such a big fan of the series and i always enjoy reading by his side.This series is a highly entertaining collection of books that offer much laugh, but notably not much, educationally speaking.That is not such a big deal, if you know exactly why you are reading a book.
Some plain, simple fun is well needed too, and those books will provide just that.Maybe if you give it some thought, though, you might come to the conclussion and form a more complex idea, that those books are a rough guide of what not to do if you are a boy that age.Now that is highly pedagogic.
If you've enjoyed Diary of a Wimpy Kid #1, you should definitely follow the series because it keeps getting hilarious with each installment.
like the school soccer team and military school.Dad is determined to make a man out of Greg.
Greg is quite happy to stay a wimp, playing with the latest video games and trying to impress the beautiful Holly Hills.
The only method open to him is subterfuge.Two-thirds of the book recounts Greg's ineffectual attempts to get out of the soccer team and his equally ineffectual attempts to befriend Holly Hills.
And for a change, the novel ends on a happy note, because Greg has run out of pages immediately after being befriended by the gorgeous Trista, the new girl in the neighbourhood.
Greg, the main character of this incredibly funny series, is a middle schooler whose universe revolves around him. He was quite selfish in the first two books. But that was nothing. Greg is reaching the pinnacle of selfishness in this book. He always has an idea how to benefit himself even if it hurts someone else inclusing his best friend or family members. But there still is karma in the world (Greg doesn't know about it). This might be the funniest book in the series so far. Loved it!Enjoy!
This was my first trip into this series, I think this book was clever being the first of its kind, but I think overall this book has a lot of problems.
For example, the biggest I have with this book is that is gives more reasons for kids today to not read a real book, a chapter book with no pictures.
Second the main character, Greg, I like the kid who plays him in the movie, but in the book I find him to a self centered, self fish, most of all lazy kid who takes advantage of his best friend, Rowley just because he is a little slow.
Meh! Not bad, I always get through these real quick, but it wasn't funny or anything, and Greg really gets on my nerves sometimes. Especially when it comes to how he treats Rowley.
I heard about this series from NPR and decided to get the first one for my boy. I'm glad I got it. It's honest, clever, funny, and sweet without being nauseatingly so. I understand the character and his "uniquenesses". He reminds me of Charlie Brown except for one major difference. The main character accepts himself without all the self depricating self-analyzation. "I am the best person I have ever known." I love nerds.
Typical mayhem ensues, Gregory and Rodrick and the rest of the Heffley family yuck it up as the "wimpy kid" continues to behave in the same self-serving manners which could possibly land him in military school.I think this is a cute series, just right for my oldest sons age group. Not only is it funny, but at times we find ourselves stopping and discussing what a spoiled rotten kid Greg is!!
Γελάω πολύ με το σπασικλάκι μας... Μπορεί η εφηβεία του ώρες ώρες να είναι κόλαση, αλλά τα λέει χαριτωμένα! Τουλάχιστον γλίτωσε τη στρατιωτική σχολή για το καλοκαίρι.. Θα έλεγα ότι θα μπορούσε να γίνει ήρωας του Big Bang Theory, αλλά με τους βαθμούς που φέρνει ο ρόλος του θα ήταν του ιδιοκτήτη από το μαγαζί με τα comic...
Fun and easy read, entertaining and light- it's a book you can take not too seriously. It's something you can rely on during quick breaks or waiting for a ride.
ممتع بشكل ما يتزهقش منهجريج الشقي جدا وافكاره وحركاتهواصدقاءه واسرته شقاوته مع اخواته خصامهم وعراكهماول بنت يعجب بيها ويحاول يكلمها صندوق الزمن اللي دفنه مع صحبه عشان يفتحوه بعد سنيننفس الفكرة عملتهاحاجات كتير فعلا مريت بيها بتفكرني بنفسي جدا وانا صغيرةبحب السلسلة دي اوي
DEEEELIGHTFUL. Favorite parts: Shel Silverstein boogeyman (amazing), hiding-under-the-blanket-next-to-his-dad-when-the-phone-rings (so easy to picture actually happening, so dumb, so annoying, so funny), and the image of Greg in his glasses, Rowley in his ...spaceman suit? and Mrs. Heffley in the front seat of the car. Kids are so ridiculous, and their parents just let 'em be.
this book is cool
Diary of a Wimpy kid The Last Straw:I learned that if you're going to stand over a vent with a robe 
Actual rating: 4.5 (round off to 5)I was torn between giving this 4 and 5 stars so I thought I just rate it in between. I like this series but this particular installment didn't make me burst out laughing, unlike the first two books. This issue tackles Greg's being wimpy in sports and being not man enough so I can't relate that much. Maybe male readers and followers of this series could appreciate this 3rd book.
These books are just so hilariously honest. Greg is kind of horrible, but so is everyone around him. Really loved the fake swear words in this one: Plastic raspberry tickle bear!
المراجعة ..... لاحقاً
Goodness! I have been chanting for sooo long that I will write all my pending reviews after exam. But I just can not stop devouring books!!! It feels so good to just hold the novels in my hand and  not inside a textbook in a respectable time of the day  unlike 2 in the night. Plus, I hate having unread books in my shelf. It feels so good to see its size depleting. Arghh, okay, I promise, 3 days of wild, carnal book reading marathon and then I am done.
Greg Heffley and his family are back and Greg is trying to get up the courage to ask out a girl while trying to keep himself out of military school. The new Wimpy Kid is enjoyable and more of the same. That isn't a bad thing, but it would have been nice have more of an explosive ending like the others. The part about Shel Silverstein made me laugh because I remember thinking the same thing from his picture on the back of Where the Sidewalk Ends.
I was surprised to find out that this book was not nearly as good as the first two Diary of a Wimpy Kid books. I did not enjoy as much as the other two because the humor that kept me hooked was almost completely gone and the book was more focused on getting the attention of a girl. i hope the next book will be better.
I shall write a comprehensive review for all books upon completion of the series.
Greg was finally planning what to do in his summer holiday because summer is in the next 5 weeks.
All he plans to do mainly is to play the game "Twisted Wizard 2" and get close to a girl named Holly Elizabeth Hills.
But his dad, Frank Heffley, heard the rumors about his plans and didn't appreciate it.
He told Greg that he needed to be more strong like the others in the neighborhood so Frank is going to send him to a military school called "Spag Union".
Greg needs to convince his dad by coming up with a way that would make his dad impressed or.......
Diary of a wimpy kid was about a boy named Greg Heffley that has the worst life.First he makes a new year resolution but it doesn't work out.Then he has to join a soccer team but he really is bad at it so his dad makes go to a boot camp for all of summer so he wants to make the most of the time he has.I like this book because it gives a lot of detail and fells like your really there in the book.I would recommend this book who like to laugh at people.
This instalment in the series wasn't particularly great, nothing new all very similar to the previous books.What happens in this one, Greg avoids doing laundry, Greg fancies a girl, Greg is rude, Greg is mean, Greg doesn't learn any lessons but all works out in the end.Warning, this book does feature the word Ploopy....thought I'd mention it incase you are crazy easily offended.My daughter really enjoyed this one though. Don't think many parents are going to get much out of it.
My son recommended these books to me. My son is 9.My son has been surfing with his dad in San Diego for a week and a half now.When I finished the 2nd book I called and him told my favorite part was when the grandpa handed Greg his false teeth.My son cracked up and said that was his favorite part too.I miss my son so friggen much I feel like crying!
