https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/817216.Crewel_Lye
That couldn't be more apparent with Crewel Lye. This book answers a question which many readers posed after reading Book 3, Castle Roogna.
In that book, the plot centers around Dor using magic to bring Millie the Ghost back to life.
But there are other ghosts of Castle Roogna which nobody has bothered to bring back to life.
This is because, like in Book 1 with Bink, Jordan is exactly what you would expect of a fantasy hero - strong, handsome, charismatic.
That’s a wonderful thing about this book – it takes the entire book for Jordan to eventually realize the cruel lie was actually his own.The problem I keep running into is a constant stream of conversation that Anthony has through the main characters about the nature of men vs women, a constant fixation on physical attributes of female characters and creatures, and some darker subtexts about submission, deception, jealously, and “female logic.” At the same time, there are moments when it seems like Anthony might be learning something about women, but those moments get buried under a lot of other problematic stuff.
A happy ending to a cruel lie. One of my favs!! Still puts a smile on my face after all these years! Highly recommend! You won't be disappointed!
This was another fun Xanth story. This time the focus is on Jordan the Ghost. This isn't one of his best but still plenty of fun.
Perhaps my favorite Xanth book -- funny, clever, and suspenseful!
Considering how breeding was openly discussed in from of Princess Ivy all last novel, this change is significant - and makes for exceptional fun throughout the rest of the series.This shows that, by this novel, Mr. Anthony was fully bought into continuing with Xanth in a new, long term way - likely, at first, at the request of his agent and his fans.
Though he was setting up future novels even back in Dragon, it's obvious that he has a plan for several future novels in the series from the hints he drops in this one.I award Crewel Lye 4 out of 5 stars.
This was another pun-filled adventure in Xanth.
Jordan is a barbarian and is wandering the depths of Xanth when he finds Pook the ghost horse. This book follows Jordan as he finds the love of his life.
I'm a completionist, but I don't know if I can make it through the whole series.
I think i really enjoyed this one. Although they are all quite similar, I think I enjoyed this one more than the others I've read so far.
Good read. Interesting story. Not my favorite Xanth novel but certainly not the worse.
A pretty good story from a side character that provides further history to the world of Xanth.
Piers Anthony, that punny, perverted, clever little bugger is my favorite fantasy author. All of his works intertwine and make for a hell of a complex world and largest set of characters - all of whom you can't help but adore. I've read this one a few times, and it's one of my top three favorites of the Xanth novels.
(Though that would have been creepy since her first appearance as a protagonist was at three years old.) But she is mostly not the focus of this one; she watches the story of Jordan the Barbarian through a magic tapestry.I kinda liked that the narration style was a little different here--Anthony rendered much of it in first person.
And while Jordan is in her body, HE figures out how to use her talent so it won't take a full hour; for instance, if he wants his arm to become four feet long, he can AIM for it to become multiple times that length, but just stop when it gets to his desired length.
Jordan, in a woman's body, finds that her body is not good for anything because it was clearly created for attracting men, not actually doing anything useful (and he spends a lot of his narration commenting on how the female body is handicapped by design flaws since it is not really built for hard stuff like walking--all that bothersome hip gyration, you know).
As if that wasn't enough, there are several places where Jordan in Threnody's body expresses in his mental narration that the inconveniences of being female have taught him why women are always so jealous of guys.
_Crewel Lye_by_Piers Anthony_Book Report #3 by Aiden Ponce Jordan was a ghost in Castle Roogna now, spending his time with little five-year-old Ivy and watching his own past unfold on the magic tapestry.
This is the story of Jordan’s life in Crewel Lye. He is a ghost in the castle Roogna.
He gets lied to by the two magicians Yin and Yang, Also by Threnody the king’s daughter.
Then he started watching the magic tapestry with Ivy and started remembering his past.
He had been killed at the end, and his bones had been scattered.
Why did I keep reading these books?30 December 2011 I guess I might be getting to a point where I am confusing the Goodreads Database. By putting in all of the Xanth books the algorithim is probably starting to think that I read a lot of pre-teen fantasy novels. While it is true that I have done so in the past, it is not necessarily something that I am doing at the moment. Okay, I do have a number of such books on my self which I will get around to reading someday (which includes Game of Thrones
By putting in all of the Xanth books the algorithim is probably starting to think that I read a lot of pre-teen fantasy novels.
Okay, I do have a number of such books on my self which I will get around to reading someday (which includes Game of Thrones, but that is hardly a pre-teen fantasy novel).
Most normal people who give such books such low scores are unlikely to continue reading the series.
This book returned me to the sense of joy I felt while reading earlier books in the series.Just as the third book in the series, "Castle Roogna", brought us back to an earlier time, so too does "Crewel Lye", though at a more recent time.
The story also adds a little more to the "current" state of Xanth, as Jordan's story is book-ended with chapters containing appearances of better-known characters such as the Good Magician Humphrey, Princess Ivy, and the Gap Dragon.
The series occupies a strange space between silly and weird.
Anthony has some odd opinions on themes, such as sex, racism, prejudice, growing up, and the use of magic in everyday life.
The writing vacillates between heavy-handed condescending to extended analysis of magic, science, and the application of the rules of Xanth.
Some love it, some hate it; I personally thought it was a strange read but harmless, although I doubt I'll read each book twice.
One thing about Anthony, he has a very complicated history and genealogy of Xanth and its characters and you have to appreciate how he always finds ways to connect them from book to book.
This was an average Xanth novel, though it was an easy and enjoyable read.
Book 8 of the series finds Princess Ivy board because she has been grounded at Castle Roogna.
So, in desperation, she starts to watch the tapestry on the wall.
Ivy becomes very excited as Jordan wants to tell her his tale of adventure.
She gets a cleaner to make be able to see the tapestry better, and Jordan starts his tale.
This is a nice addition to the Xanth series, and it is fun.
Jordan the ghost doesn't remember his life so Ivy decides she's going to help him remember.And what a life it was.
Jordan's talent is regeneration.
He loses a finger, one grows back.
A monster eats off his face, it grows back.
He dies, he comes back to life.
Piers goes through a lot of bloody gruesome scenes to prove to us that Jordan can comes back to life.So Jordan goes on a grand adventure that is doomed from the get go.

Luckily that only lasted for a chapter or so and once the story got rolling again, it was another great, punny read.
While I've enjoyed all the of the Xanth novels so far, I've really enjoyed the last 3 books and can't seem to stop reading them.
I'm about to pick up Golem in the Gears and read the first chapter just to satisfy my curiosity with the intention of setting it down to read one of the many other books in the pile on my nightstand, but lately I haven't been able to stop reading a Xanth novel once I start.
I've been feeling very depressed lately about forces outside of my control and the other night as I lay in bed unable to sleep, began puttering around in dark, rifling through stacks of books until I found just the right escapist tome to lighten my mood.
I have been carrying around this book in my purse since that sleepless night, just to squeeze a few paragraphs, pages or chapters in every chance I get.
One of the joys of reading a book you know well...
Instead Anthony delivers a Punny, twisted, and tragic romantic story about Jordan the Barbarian and his ill-fated love for a shape-shifting demoness.
Also a departure is the first-person narrative by Jordan (now a ghost because he's been dead for 400 years) which he relays to five-year-old Ivy, the King's daughter.
When Jordan was alive he was motivated by a quest for adventure which lead to him being betrayed by a cruel lie.
However, his tale and magical talent--the ability to overcome and heal from any injury--inspires Ivy to offer a glimmer of hope that Jordan can still yet resurrect himself and find redemption.
I've come to expect a certain level of entertainment from Xanth novels, but this one was just a real pleasure to read.
Interesting note at the end: Anthony says all his Xanth novels are written for adults, but enjoyed by kids.
I have noticed more and more adult themes creeping into the Xanth novels the more I read them.
However, Anthony is very clever about how he writes on these issues....kind of like a cartoon with adult jokes that fly right over the kids heads but crack the parents up.
"Some heroes aren’t very courageous or heroic inside."Another Xanth adventure - another new character.
Jordan the Barbarian, resident ghost of Castle Roogna, can heal from any injury, even, it seems some pretty ::cough::barbaric::cough:: ones.
In a sort of Princess Bride manner, the story we're reading is a tale being told to Princess Ivy (as she views it on a magical tapestry.)Now, Anthony and Xanth are pretty full of some jokes that can be seen as hurtful towards women (none more so than this one where the lead is a literal barbarian), but don't read it as a lesson in men and women.
It's a fun, adventure, that's all.
This was even better than I remembered.
It's a love story told to a 5-year-old audience with sex, betrayal and bitter regret!
'Nuff said.I would like to point out a quote from Mr. Anthony in the "Author's Note" at the end:"You see, I have many young readers, who write me in much greater numbers than the older ones do, but they are really not the largest audience for Xanth.
Despite appearances, Xanth is intended mostly for adults, which may be why the kids like it."So. I did not name my son after a yount-adult fiction writer after all!

Jordan was turned into a ghost because of a crewel lye, but Princess Ivy wants to know more.
We follow his story through the Tapestry, as he first wanders aimlessly in the quest for adventure, and finally is given the quest of retrieving an object to determine who will rule after the aging King.
We also meet Threnody, who is one of my favorite characters simply because of her sad story (we later find out more about the circumstances of her birth in other books)Most of the newer books don't really deal with Xanth's past, so I enjoy this book for this reason.
Another five stars!
