https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3338936-school-for-love
The end of the War. And it's snowing.The recently orphaned comes.
There is no likable character, except Mr. Jewel; and he is a gem.* However, Miss Bohun is one of the most wonderfully horrid characters I've ever had the pleasure of meeting.I will be cracking open Olivia Manning's  The Balkan Trilogy very soon._____ _____ _____ _____ _____*It is Mr. Jewel who says:I don't know as love always goes to the most deserving.and I don't mind an Arab with a gun, but I can't stand a woman with a tract.
Faro.Miss Bohun had not much to say, but she occasionally and with determination distracted Felix from something that interested him to show him something that did not.This is a world I've never visited before in books, Jerusalem towards the end of World War 2.
I figure him to be between 13 and 16 years old.
His coming-of-age here is so true and honest and still fresh, I loved spending time with him.
And there's Faro.
Also I loved my library copy with its turquoise library binding and its yellowed, delicate pages and old print.
I'm tempted to steal it.
(I wouldn't steal it.

This is a wonderful book.
It is a pleasure to read, the prose is beautiful.
The back cover describes is as 'the most satisfying of Manning's books'.
I have to admit, it is the only one that I have ever read, but what a way to be introduced to her work.
The story is not new: the orphaned boy reduced to rely on the charity of a distant relative that is not the caring person she initially presents.
But it is all so wonderfully presented.
A great read.
In its depiction of an ostensibly innocent adolescent character's entrance into the world of experience and corruption, the novel shares some things in common with those of Manning's contemporary Elizabeth Bowen.
But whereas Bowen is always in dialogue with the conventions of the literary Gothic, Manning's is a fiction of a different sort.
There's something dreamlike about the book, best represented in Felix's cluelessness about the political situation in Jerusalem in 1945.
School for Love is a beautifully written coming of age novel, set in Jerusalem towards the end of World War Two. Felix Latimer is a boy (we’re never told exactly how old; I assumed fifteen or sixteen, although there were moments he seemed younger) who has recently lost his mother.
Felix had been living in Baghdad with his mother, about a year before his mother’s death, Felix’s father was killed by Iraqi forces.
As Felix arrives in Jerusalem, there is snow on the ground, though he is assured it won’t last too long.Miss Bohun turns out to be quite a character – one beautifully rendered by Manning, complex and endlessly infuriating, she feels like a character who must have been drawn from life.
After reading a bit about Manning's career, this book is not one of her better known (like the Balkan Trilogy series, or Fortunes of War).
Her choice of a young, coming-of-age boy (Felix) as the main narrator was a great one - he is an open book and free from biases - thus a great person to look at a complex wartime environment through.
It made me want to learn more about the era.Though the quirky characters Felix observes and develops relationships during the story, we can observe his own learning in the 'school of love' and its many forms.
A masterly depiction of an appalling religious hypocrite, who is at the same time absurd.
Unsentimentally it depicts the lonliness of poor young Felix, stranded in Jerusalem following World War Two, his desperate sense of loss in his mother, and his infatuation with a young English widow, Jane Ellis.
At first longing to believe in the terrible Miss Bohun, he is forced through his loyalty to the clear sighted Jane Ellis to see her actions for what they are.
It is Miss Ellis who quotes Blake's poem (not read much these days, as the language is offensively racist) about life being a 'School for Love'.
It has been a decade since I read Olivia Manning's Balkan Trilogy.
I read that in instalments because it was such a hefty collection.
I remember thinking this is brilliant, but can I muster the energy to read and enjoy such a novel again?
Well the good thing about 'School for Love' (and don't be put off by the soppy title) is that it is a heck of a lot shorter but still vintage OM.
She's really, really good in her characterizations and how she develops them in tandem with the storyline.
Razor sharp insights into human personality, she ties it all up so beautifully.
3.5
Felix arrives at Miss Bohun's boarding house naive and free of biases; he still craves the attention given to him by his coddling mother but is forced to grow up and fend for himself.
As Felix meets and interacts with an eclectic mix of characters, he learns that first impressions are not always accurate, personalities are not always genuine, and perhaps his mother sheltered him too much—all in all, his own learning in the "school for love." It's a coming-of-age story for Felix, but perhaps more interesting are the characters he encounters.While Felix is the voice of the narrative, the story arguably centers around Miss Bohun.
Olivia Manning's account of an orphaned boy and his stay in wartime Jerusalem inhabits not so much the times and the setting, but the emotional atmosphere of the characters.
What proceeds as an intricate counterplay of intent and expectations wanders off at times into the realm of soap opera; this is longer than it needs to be, but the characters are convincing enough to carry it.
Manning could have done with more exposition and still kept up the interest level.
In 1945, orphaned, naive teen Felix goes to stay at Miss Bohun's boarding house in Jerusalem.
During the following months, Felix slowly and awkwardly grows up.
His development is fairly interesting but, really, the story centers around the warped, miserly Miss Bohun.
I love this moment from Felix's first real tour of Jerusalem:"Miss Bohun had not much to say, but she occasionally and with determination distracted Felix from something that interested him to show him something that did not."When she learns that the newly-widowed Mrs. Ellis is pregnant, she offers these not-so-well-intentioned words:"And I want to tell you that I, for one, have no doubts at all - I'm sure it is your late husband's baby."Although I wasn't swept away by the story, Miss Bohun is sure to clatter around my brain for some time.
Showing WWII Jerusalem from the point of view of a naive teenage boy, this slim volume has some marked highs and lows of emotion, yet, because of the lack of sophistication in our protagonist, the book can sometimes feel more lightweight than its subjects. Touches of great description of place save the book from being merely a psychological allegory, and a few surprises in plot will keep you entertained and reading.
Stunning in its fullness of character, wise in its understanding of the world. Manning so precisely portrays youthful, naive love that is almost despite oneself and the ways we can be incorrect about the world. also, as a bonus, one of the best cats written (tied with fanchette of the claudine novels).
"Coming of age" stories aren't usually my favorite, but this one was exceptional because of its psychological insight and its interesting setting, at the end of World War II among English refugees in Jerusalem. The only reason I gave it 3 instead of 4 stars was because it left me feeling somewhat pessimistic about human nature; I might revisit that after I think about it some more.
Fascinating book, beautifully written. The bony woman keeping the front bedroom of the house ready for the Second Coming, the boy with only the cat to warm him, the lonely soldier who is not so lonely when offered nothing but beans for dinner, the Polish count in the servant's room....the weird, sad, funny, horrible world Olivia Mannings offers us.
you'll never forget ms. bohun. the rest of the characters in this elegant, precise novel are just as memorable. they don't write them like this anymore. i wish they did.
Nice easy read, with a killer ending; a slightly exotic setting and a great cast of characters. It's not going to blow your socks off, but there's probably no better way to spend a lazy rainy day.
One of Olivia Manning's best. The protagonist is a recently orphaned English boy marooned in Palestine at the end of World War II. Very subtle. I read it twice.
The story has a more domestic focus, compared to the later masterpiece.
It's very good, but less complex, without the sweep of the later work.
The women, here, like in the later books, are unique self-directed individuals, making their own way within the limited options society provides them.
The absence of male input or consideration of male preferences in the information gathering, thought processes and decision-making of the female characters who star in Manning's novels is so subtle that you barely notice it except to the extent that the characters seem strong and realistic.
It was the setting that drew me to this book: WWII Jerusalem, a city brimming with refugees, and groaning under the weight of the brewing Arab-Israeli crisis.
A town full of different peoples: Arabs, Jews, English, Greeks, Germans, etc.
A fascinating setting.
Unfortunately this book didn't capitalize on it.
Most of the story takes place within a house.
While Miss Bohun is a fascinating character in her quiet evil, the rest of the characters fell flat.
Felix is painfully naive.
Almost nothing happens in this story, and the message is a little heavy handed.
I really had to force myself to get through this one.

The story is set in Jerusalem 1945,a young boy,Felix , has been orphaned and will be living with Miss Bohun,who may,or may not be a relative he has never met,he will be living with Miss Bohun and many other borders,such as mr.Jewel and Mrs.Elsie,a pregnant widow and of course the city of Jerusalem is in a panic what with refugees from the war are all around the city,the British mandate is ending and there will soon be a war between the Arab and Jewish population. A very interesting story.
I picked this up after reading an article about underappreciated female authors, and I'm glad I discovered this voice. The plot is unevenly paced at times, but the characters are the real stars here. Everyone, even the cat, is drawn in such rich detail.
Somewhere between a 3 and a 4 for me.
Loved this book - must read or re-read more Manning.
Slow but interesting and well written. Perceptive creation of characters.
It appears the landlady has agreed to let Mrs. Ellis take over the whole house once her baby comes, but as the book teaches us, one can never be too sure when it comes to Miss Bohun's promises.The story culminates with Felix's preparation for returning to England along with other refugees and the dramatic events that affect the household.What this novel really does is show how our relationships, our need for respect, acceptance and love, and our often unpredictably fluid small societies can dominate our lives in the midst of major changes in the world.
He takes up residence in the boarding house of Miss Bohun who, despite being a sort-of relative (the foster child of his grandparents), overcharges and underfeeds him.The book is a coming-of-age story depicting the evolution of young Felix’s attitudes and understanding, especially with regards to Miss Bohun, as his feelings of gratitude eventually turn into disgust.
Miss Bohun, as soon revealed to the reader if not to Felix, is a religious hypocrite, belonging to a group of Christian-by-name cultists who are installed in Jerusalem waiting for the Second Coming.
