https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1590319.Unmasking_the_Face
Not only is it easy to read, even for those who are completely unfamiliar with micro-expressions or anything related, it covers the basics while not being overly boring for those who are familiar with the subject.
Each chapter has very detailed descriptions of the different components to what each universal emotion looks like on the face, with pictures and diagrams to support the facts.
This novel also included in these chapters the combinations of faces, such as fear-surprise, anger-contempt, or guilt-sadness.
At the end of the book they had faces to test you on how much you learned and supporting chapters on subjects such as reading motives behind emotions, or how micro-expressions are affected by facial deceit.
Paul Ekman is the world's expert on deceit, facial expressions, and reading the face.
He has studied the face more rigorously than any other researcher, and his findings include proof that many basic facial expressions are universal among world cultures, that people have 'micro expressions' which last only a 20th of a second, but indicate concealed or underlying emotions, and that you can be trained to increase your ability to detect concealed emotions.
This book is a basic manual of Ekman's findings and is of interest to anyone who is concerned with reading the emotions of his or her fellow human beings.
I got about halfway through it and decided to use it primarily as a reference book.The subtitle of this book is "A guide to recognizing emotions from facial expressions".
Happy, sad, anger, and disgust are expressed the same the world over.
The book has chapters on surprise, fear, disgust, anger, happiness, and sadness.
I recommend this book for people whose livelihoods depend on reading faces: coaches and therapists, security guards, lawyers and judges, interviewers, casting agents, etc.
Other than that, it is a good book to have around for those times when you encounter an unusual facial expression on someone with whom you interact.
I don't know if it's just me but most of these facial expressions are easily read if you pay attention to people's faces.
Like, if you regulary watch movies or tend to deal with clients, you'll learn nothing from this because it's a matter of simply paying attention to what's in front of you.
Emotions are not that hard to understand if you're empathic or if you're at least interested in body language.
Although, I really enjoyed this book but not the fact that I had to read it on an ebook version, so, every time I had to go forward and back to see the pictures.
From the chapter FACIAL DECEIT"Four Reasons Why People Control Facial Expressions"We have coined the phrase DISPLAY RULES to describe what people learn, probably quite early in their lives, about the need to manage the appearance of particular emotions in particular situations.
Sometimes display rules are more specific in prohibiting a particular facial expression only in a particular role or social situation.
Their role in social life is the first, most widely shared reason people control their facial expressions.
But all four reasons for controlling facial expression can involve false messages or the omission of messages.
this book was so dumb wtf if you need a guide to read such basic signs you're probably really thick or something idk
I'm obsessed with the Tim Roth show Lie to Me - this is by Pual Ekman, the facial expression researcher on whom the show is based. It's dry, but fascinating!
This is vital because it just so happens that the above show was in large part based on the work of behavioral psychologist Dr. Paul Ekman.Getting back on track, Unmasking The Face – A Guide To Recognizing Emotions From Facial Expressions by Dr. Paul Ekman is an incredible book that details part of the knowledge that was used within the TV show referenced above.Unmasking The Face helps individuals be able to pierce of the veil of lies that’s often cast upon them.In his phenomenal and fascinating book, Dr. Ekman covers some of the tools and data available in order to determine people’s true feelings via their facial expressions.At its core Ekman gives individuals the facial schematics to enable people to read the emotions referenced above.
This book is unintentionally a fantastic resource for creating subtle (or not so subtle) facial expressions for specific emotions or mixed emotions in cartooning, comics or portraits.
All the muscles used for each expression are described and demonstrated, and there are base photos in the back to cut out and use to mix expressions on the fly.I'm willing to bet writers who get stuck sometimes while trying to show, not tell, might find the breakdowns of each emotion helpful, as well.The science behind it and the cultural comparisons were a big plus for the geek in me.
Interessante studio sulla fisiognomica del volto: attraverso le espressioni facciali è possibile, con allenamento e pazienza, riconoscere a colpo d'occhio le emozioni che prova chi ci sta di fronte. Dopo avere imparato le tipologie basilari, sarà possibile destreggiarsi con maggiore agilità tra chi dissimula un'emozione e chi mente spudoratamente. Da questo studio è stata tratta la serie tv "Lie to me", con Tim Roth nel ruolo di protagonista.
This book is written as if it was some research paper. It spends too much of the content telling us the validity and importance of studying face to reveal emotions. I didn't really learn anything new. Plus, I was annoyed by the low quality pictures.
A great tool for understanding others. I really like this book.
Much better than Ekmans other texts - detailed and practical, with opportunities for skills practice to identify nuances of emotion in facial expressions.
Great insight from the world's foremost expert in this field.
most of it is common sense.
Seminal work (for its time). Very good reference all should have if they desire to understand neurolinguistics associated with reactions based on interaction.
16.09.2012 28.12.2012
This is an authoritative guide to facial expressions.
Paul Ekman does a phenomenal job breaking down every little construct that goes into emotional expression, and does so in a very structured and straight-forward manner.Although this text was meant as a textbook, it still felt dry, dense, and hard to get through.
I'm sure Ekman has a plethora of stories he could sprinkle in to make this book a bit more interesting and still achieve the same academic rigor.All in all in a great, if tedious, read for someone interested in micro-expressions and reading the face.NOTE: do not get the kindle version as the pictures and the formatting are screwed up.
It reads like a textbook and is far less compelling than his other works that I've read (Telling Lies, Emotions Revealed). Both of the other books kept me deeply engaged and glossed over topics covered earlier in the book to save you from having to flip around.I'm also inclined to believe that this book is simply terrible to read in ebook format unless it is completely re-designed for the format with links to jump to and from the sample pictures.
A detailed analysis of how facial expressions are formed and combined to show emotion.A great book for actors, counselors, interrogaters, and (I suppose) con artists.I found the book interesting on a personal level. I sometimes read facial expressions that are at odds with what the person is saying and I was curious to see if I was reading people correctly. Yep.
Manuals of explaining 7 basic universal emotions - anger, disgust, surprise, fear, contempt, happy, sadness. The manual is comprehensive until you read FACS. Facial expression is awfully helpful to decode the underlying notes of the expressive language. As learning the facial expression takes practice, the book's worth in review once in a while.
This book felt like reading a textbook. It was extremely dry & too straightforward. That being said, facial expression recognition isn't normally an area that I read much about or really have a passion for which may be why I found the book less interesting than I was hoping. Eckman may be a boring writer but I did find the book to be very informative & eye-opening.
This book is filled with useful, productive and interesting information.The angle of the subject is approached is different and makes you think.I found it to be an excellent resource for anyone that would like to study expressions or improve the ability of recognizing emotions by looking at other people faces.
Unmasking the Face: A Guide to Recognizing Emotions from Facial Clues
I've found this book easy to read, entertaining and very practical. I love the fact that beside theoretical knowledge it also gives exercises which allow to apply and sharpen your learnings.Strongly recommended to everybody and especially to "Lie to me" fans.
It is a good book despite its (kind of) commercial title.The remarks Paul Ekman often add are very proper. He is trying to avert his readers not to limit themselves to some ''psychological theories'' while judging other people's emotions and not only.
Very detailed treatise into the facial expressions and their linkage to emotions. Loads of photographs to help understand the intricacies and also interesting tips to practice and learn the techniques. Can prove to be a cumbersome read though.
Enjoyed this more than Emotions Revealed. What a kick: do scientific research and end up a celebrity! Is it all that? I'm still not so sure to be honest. I rather enjoy the fact that he makes constant reference to Charles Darwin. It puts the puff in perspective.
This was interesting. I think I expected a little more. The man's images they used in this book weren't as expressive as I would have expected. The woman's images were far more expressive and realistic looking.
Good intro into facial recognition.
