https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/79626.D_Aulaires_Book_of_Greek_Myths
I have recently been reading George O'Conner's books of mythology and he had pieces of stories I have never heard before.
After reading this, I now know where he got this information from, or at least a place.
This fills in many gaps of the myths I did not know.
These are mostly quick and simple tellings of the Greek myths.
It's a great way to get an overview of mythology without having to read Homer or other tomes.
I love great myths and these seem to have a special quality to them.
Many of my favorite stories in the myths are here.
My copy is old (stolen from my elder brother, in fact; it was his first), taped back together, missing it's covers, and extremely well-loved.
Go, find a copy, and read this.
Read about Persephone eating pomegranate seeds, Eos forgetting to ask for eternal youth for her love, Selene learning from her sisters mistake and keeping Edmynion held in eternal sleep, Hephestus and his robots, and Hermes' childhood antics.
You won't regret it and you might want to continue to want to read more and more about Greek mythology.
I devoured D'Aulaires' Book of Greek Myths in what was then record time, and within days I was debating my father on theology.
I wanted to know how Christianity could have such similar myths.It was the beginning of the end of my religiosity and the penultimate blow to my catholicism.
And I've loved this book deeply from the second I first closed its cover until today.
We encourage them to think for themselves, to question, to seek, to demand that authority earns respect, so their experience with the book isn't as revelatory as mine.
This book introduced me to Greek mythology and I've yet to find its equal in the genre.
Even now as an adult when I read it, I am impressed by all the words and terms that Greek folklore has bequeathed to the English language and no doubt its sister tongues ("panic" from the satyr demigod Pan, "echo" from the nymph of the same name cursed to forever repeat the words of others, "narcissism" from the youth Narcissus who pined away from desiring his own reflection in the water, etc).Highly recommended not only for children, but for anyone who loves well-drawn and well-narrated folklore.
I adored this book when I was a child.
The retellings of the myths are vibrant and fascinating and the illustrations are mild enough for a child to enjoy but compelling enough to interest an adult.When I was a kid, I used to take this book out of the library over and over and I would read it when I was at a friend's house and they had a copy.
Also, sometimes I re-read it as an adult.If I could give this book 6 stars, I would.
One of those books every home should have and every child should read growing up.
I wish I had read it then, but no.
However, I still have (somewhere!) my very worn copy of Edith Hamilton's Mythology which I read over and over.
Instead I first enjoyed D'Aulaires' Book of Greek Myths with my own children.Did they/we believe in the Greek and Roman gods?
Best of all this book is beautiful!
The author-artists, Ingri and Edgar D'Aulaires, have created a sumptuous treat both for eye and imagination.
It is a book which teaches and also satisfies the soul.
No idea how many times this reading makes.
Aynı şeyleri defalarca okuyabilecek kadar hemde.Elimdeki bu baskı Yunan Mitleri'nin gençler için olan sadeleştirilmiş baskısı ve içinde birbirinden muhteşem çizimler var.
Çok derinlemesine bir inceleme beklemeyin dediğim gibi sadeleştirilmiş bir baskı bu ama daha önce hiç okumadıysanız ve ilginizi çekiyorsa keyif alacağınızı düşünüyorum.
''Her yıl, ne zaman Persephone Demeter'i bırakıp gitse, işte o zaman Demeter üzülür ve bu yüzden doğada hiçbir şey büyümez, yeryüzünde kış olur.
Ne zaman ki Demeter kızının usul usul ayak seslerini duyar, işte o zaman bütün dünya çiçeklenir.
I would sit cross legged right on the floor by the bottom shelf where it was kept, spread out the huge, thick book on my lap and read while I looked at the wonderful drawings.
I immediately went in to discover the store did not have my beloved book on Greek myths, but they could order it for me.
I jumped at the chance to finally own the book.This is a wonderful way to introduce children to Greek mythology.
I do have to admit the book, while still big, was not as large as my 10 year old self remembered.
6/23/13:I read this again and again as a child.
It breaks my heart a little that my son is, for some perverse reason of his own, fixed in the idea that he doesn't like Greek myths.Update of 8/9/14:Now reading this aloud to my son, slightly against his will, as it was clear he'd never read it on his own.
He was engrossed by the first section, and the text when read aloud flowed better than I'd expected it to.
I think they really made the book for me, when I read it as a child (all those pretty goddesses!).
Not only is this a five star book. I have to add it to my list of best books ever. Every kid should read this one. These are stories full of all the things we love in tales---action, adventure, love, cruelty, war, friendship, fighting---all the things that make us human.#bookaday
Everyone, no matter what his or her age, should read this indispensable retelling of the Greek Myths, a foundation stone of the Western tradition.I feel immensely fortunate that I was exposed to this title by my parents at a very young age.It does, however, have two drawbacks, one I can forgive and one I almost cannot.
It is perhaps a shame that the popular culture doesn't make allusions to Hephaestus, Mnemosyne, Terpsichore, Dionysus, and Aeneas as an everyday matter, but the fact is it doesn't, and it's a shame to leave little kids at sea (like Perseus?).Before I gift this to some young relatives of mine, I intend to prepare a pronunciation guide in LaTeX (or LyX) and tape it into the endpapers.
I know this is like everyone's favorite childhood mythology book (including mine, I think), but I don't like it.
It does that thing where rapes are glossed over as "marriages", which is horrible to read if you know what actually happens in the myths.
I know that they can't actually talk about rape in a kids book because we can't ever bring up anything sex-related in a kids book, but it makes me really uncomfortable, you know?Also, my brother and I were flipping through this book the other day, and we saw a drawing of the Andromeda: incredibly pale skin, blue eyes, blonde hair.

I was going to check it out from the library to read with my 10 year old twins, but when I looked through the pages on Amazon, I knew I had to own this book.
The collection of myths are grouped together in such a way that stories build on top of one another which makes it both easier to understand and often more exciting.
They are incredibly readable with the stories flowing easily one into the other.
I know I will come back again and again to read this book throughout the years.
Hands down the best book of Greek Myths ever, this classic is a good introduction for kids and holds up as a principal reference work for adults.
Beautifully illustrated with pictures that fascinated and haunted me from the first time I saw them, this book is also scrupulously researched and written in clear but evocative language that translates the power and importance of these stories.
Thorough, almost every Greek god and major or minor myth is represented here, with the Trojan War and all that followed being the only part of the traditions to receive a somewhat perfunctory treatment- no doubt due to their unquestionably adult themes.
This book instilled me with a great love of mythology and classical antiquity that I still have to this day.
I bought my own copy this Christmas for sentimental and nostalgic reasons, and I'm so glad I did.
Looking at it with adult eyes, I see now that the stories have been somewhat sanitized for children, but without changing the overall essence.
Greek mythology can be a very complex subject, but this book does a fabulous job of making the myths accessible and enjoyable.
I was enthralled by this book as a child and will treasure my copy now as an adult.
I remember first reading this in third grade after having read The Lightning Thief and becoming fascinated by Greek mythology.
I'd like to imagine that Riordan himself read this while researching for Percy Jackson or, perhaps, even when he was a young child and that this sparked his fascination at such an early age.
Now that goodreads has told me that he has added this book to his shelves, I think it even more likely!Excellent for young readers and those looking to brush up on their Greek mythology!
I highly recommend this book!
My father got this from the library and read it to me when I was in elementary school. I checked it out over and over again to reread the stories and admire the artwork. This introduced me to the ancient world and started my love affair with history and archaeology. I occasionally wonder if I would be the person I am now if I hadn't discovered this book at such a young age. Do you have kids? Do them a favor and introduce them to these stories. You don't know how much it may change their lives.
My childhood copy is tattered, practically coverless, and very well loved.
He's a blacksith, and he made a golden necklace for Aphrodite.I -- Io: I liked her punishment from Hera, being turned into a cow, but I don't think it is fair for just having been with Zeus.
I really like her kids -- Apollo and Artemis -- and the way she is about kids and people and stuff.
All the stuff she did was pretty cool, and really smart to make the daughters of that King cook him alive.
I don't think he is one of those people who kills things just to stay alive, but someone who risks his life to save others.
This collection of Greek myths is just as good the second time around ten years later and in audio book format.
I am an absolute fan of Greek myths for I read this book ten years ago in paperback format and it has stuck with me ever since.I have only recently delved into the wide world of audio books and I have found that narration can either make or break a book.
D'Aulaire's Book of Greek Myths featured the impeccable quartet of Sydney Poitier, Paul Newman, Kathleen Turner, and Matthew Broderick.
Poring over it, again and again.This was my foundational text for Greek mythology, the original from which every other version felt like a departure.
It does cover a lot of ground; rarely does a reference or anecdote from Greek mythology go by that the D'Aulaires didn't mention.My young daughters, I've been realizing, have managed to greedily internalize Percy Jackson without ever really having been exposed to actual mythology in any version.
It makes me wonder whether that series is going to occupy the same place in their lives as this book did in mine: the primary and authoritative version of the story.Ah well.
This book looks like a simple re-telling of ancient Greek mythology.
For example, when the chapter on Theseus concludes, the next chapter starts with the tale of Oedipus meeting Theseus.
Thus, we learn the tale of Oedipus.The drawings are simple, but tell the entire story.
Instead of focusing on just an illustration of a character, there is a symbol or event happening throughout, so the reader can see Heracles and his various quests.One can see how a child would want to read this over and over, but it's a great read for adults, too.
Because all the various gods and goddesses are shown in a two-page illustrated layout, with the Roman versions shown toward the end of the book.
This is a surprisingly meaty book for essentially a children's take on Greek mythology. The most obvious nod to being aimed at children is the use of "married" for what many classical scholars describe as rape (i.e. the rape of Europa of the rape of Persephone).May really enjoyed this book and I was happy to have her see some of the original Greek myths. May has been getting into crytozoology and monster stories via Dragonology: The Complete Book of Dragons, Monsterology, and Voyage of the Basset. I think it is good to see where many of these critters came from.
সুনদর :)!বইটি পড়তে পড়তে আরামে ঘুমিয়ে পড়া সবরগীয় বযাপার। ছবিগুলোও অনেক সুনদর। গরীক মিথ শুরু করার জনয পারফেকট বই। অনেক সময় লাগিয়ে পড়লাম, ভেবেছিলাম সময় বেশি নিলে বেশ কিছু চরিতর এবং গলপ পাকাপাকি ভাবে মাথায় ঢুকিয়ে রাখতে পারবো। কিনতু এত বেশি গলপ এবং এত বেশি চরিতর কমপরেস করে এখানে ঢুকানো হয়েছে যে আমি মোটামুটি গলপ এবং চরিতরের ভিড়ে হারিয়ে গিয়েছি। কিনতু এই হারিয়ে যাওয়া নিয়েও আমার মাঝে কোনো অসনতোষ নেই। গলপ এবং চরিতরগুলো একটা আরেকটার সাথে লিংক করার সটাইলটা ভাল ছিল। যাদের সমৃতিশকতি ভাল তাদের মনে রাখতে সুবিধা
সুন্দর :)!বইটি পড়তে পড়তে আরামে ঘুমিয়ে পড়া স্বর্গীয় ব্যাপার। ছবিগুলোও অনেক সুন্দর। গ্রীক মিথ শুরু করার জন্য পারফেক্ট বই। অনেক সময় লাগিয়ে পড়লাম, ভেবেছিলাম সময় বেশি নিলে বেশ কিছু চরিত্র এবং গল্প পাকাপাকি ভাবে মাথায় ঢুকিয়ে রাখতে পারবো। কিন্তু এত বেশি গল্প এবং এত বেশি চরিত্র কমপ্রেস করে এখানে ঢুকানো হয়েছে যে আমি মোটামুটি গল্প এবং চরিত্রের ভিড়ে হারিয়ে গিয়েছি। কিন্তু এই হারিয়ে যাওয়া নিয়েও আমার মাঝে কোনো অসন্তোষ নেই। গল্প এবং চরিত্রগুলো একটা আরেকটার সাথে লিংক করার স্টাইলটা ভাল ছিল। যাদের স্মৃতিশক্তি ভাল তাদের মনে রাখতে সুবিধা হবে।
I've had this book for most of my life.
I've read it so much that at a point in my childhood I knew exactly what page would follow the one I am on, what picture I could expect to see, what words I could expect to read.
(Even though I've memorized all the myths by heart thanks to this book.)I love the illustrations, so soft and the colors don't want to murder your eyes.This is one of those books I will make sure my far-in-the-future kids have access to.
Of course the this book doesn't go terribly in depth with the myths or discuss different versions but this is a children's book!
One of my all-time-favorite books to read! Each myth story is only a couple of pages long, so you can pick it up and read any part at any time. Very useful to know these ancient greek myths later in life. Know what Narcissistic means? you will if you know the myth of Narcissus!
I can't say enough about this book. It is still my favorite book on Greek or Roman mythology, even though I first read it in third grade. If you love mythology, find a copy of this book.
Read aloud with the kids. Now I finally understand Greek mythology that I was supposed to learn in college.
