https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/9808350-what-the-moon-brings
'I hate the moon—I am afraid of it—for when it shines on certain scenes familiar and loved it sometimes makes them unfamiliar and hideous.' What the Moon Brings  is a Lovecraft's short story where the fear of the unknown is the most prevalent theme.An unnamed narrator tells us what he saw in a garden late one night - unexplainable, weird and terrifying things under the moonlight.
The experience made him run and fall into the sea full of sea-worms.
We never find out whether the narrator lived or not.The story is too short to leave a stronger impression, but the idea of it is good.
This is one of the least interesting of Lovecraft's stories. It is told in the first person, by a never named narrator. He wanders through surreal dreamscape, when, one night, while walking through a garden in the moonlight, he sees strange and bizarre things.
Short but not really sweet. This is Lovecraft, after all. He's wordy and distinct, which I enjoy, but I didn't really feel much for this one. Not much to it.
I found the way that Lovecraft romanticized nature in a way to inspire horror to be brilliant. The scene feels familiar, but gradually becomes nightmarish unto the climax.
Lovecraft and his ability to not just describe a scene but literally bring it all to life with the beauty of imaginative description; there is no boring entries in his work.
I was a little disappointed when the story ended so abruptly; but on the other hand...could us who write not continue the story on?
I am no fan of fan fiction but as an exercise in descriptive writing thid woukld be a fulfilling exercise.Finally, each page he did complete is right on point.
So if you write and have writers block or need to 'get in the right frame of mind" this piece is perfect.
Місячне світло спотворює навіть те, що вдень так любо нашому серцю. В цьому переконався оповідач. Він ненавидить і боїться місяць. Опинившись в саду, він його геть не впізнав. Сад тягнувся безкінечно, а навкруги стояли лише зловісні дерева, кущі і скульптури. Оповідач в страху побіг вздовж струмка, в якому він побачив обличчя мертвих, сховані в пелюстках квітки лотоса. Струмок перетворився на річку, а вона стала морем. Тепер він стояв перед морем мерців і хотів заговорити від них і втекти одночасно, аж поки не втомився від цього, стрибнув у воду і став одним із них.
Fragment. A fragment of ICK! The man had a horror of dead, rotting things. (OK, yes, who doesn't? But he liked to dwell on it in great detail.) But, let me see, is that the mountain who walks under there? A precursor, maybe?(Moved 2016 review to the individual work Sept. 2017 to make room to review the collection under its own entry.)
Beautiful poetic and descriptive language as usual for Lovecraft. Although only a short story it prompts images and provokes images in your mind.
6/10
A fairly generic and fragmentary offering. Nothing surprising here, and nothing to make this one stand out from the rest.
A short nightmarish dream.
i almost prefer lovecraft short stories without plots and just a long-winded description of nightmarish landscape.
Nice eerie atmosphere, but rather weak as far as short stories go.
Quite Forgettable. In fact, I've already forgotten it.
It was in the spectral summer when the moon shone down on the old garden where I wandered; the spectral summer of narcotic flowers and humid seas of foliage that bring wild and many-coloured dreams.
This barely qualifies as a short story. It's more like a proposal to a story. As such, it's somewhat of a tease. We follow an unnamed narrator as he traverses through a garden that seemingly leads him to cross into a surreal landscape under the light of the moon. The author injects alot of adjectives and adverbs to try and make a garden at night feel eerie. But due to the shortness of it, there really isn't much to sink in and be absorbed into the prose. It ended without much of a conclusion either.
The terror. . . the terror. (view spoiler)[This contrast takes a quick detour. Lured in by scenic poetry, we come upon a sea of terror. What is usually familiar appears changed by, "What the Moon Brings. Where all the flesh of the churchyards had gathered." Yuck! Nice gross out. Then to be recognized by the unfathomable and ginormous figure that had always been there unseen that made up the reef. Wow. (hide spoiler)]
A very short Lovecraft tale, which feels more like a germ of an idea than a full blown story.A dark tale of the moon and its power, which leaves you unsettled, but certainly not as affecting as some of his other works.Short, but certainly not sweet, Lovecraft knows how to press the button marked "Disturbing".
not what I expected but it was nice
I view this as less of a story and more of a prose poem. Beautiful words and haunting dreamscapes. Finding the supernatural beauty of things that should shock and terrify us is always a delight.
A great example of prose-poetry—it's actually quite reminiscent of my old and fabled friend Coleridge. Some great and terrifying imagery.
This reminded me greatly of the Moon-bog story; and some of the dream stories as well. Not really memorable of itself, though.
My fave Lovecraft story yet! Follows a mysterious narrator walking through his garden when all of sanity seems to unravel before his very eyes. Great stuff!
TOO GOOD. Can I expect more of this persecutory exposition?
Short story by Lovecraft. I must say this surely is a damn good reason to 'hate the moon'...
Didn't like this one, not that there was anything really to be liked.
Mi Lovecraft experimentando y cuando lo hace un cúmulo de cosmos y esferas explotan en un sinfín de arco-iris. <3
