https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/249024.Basic_Christianity
I think we know how that one went.Second attempt : Basic Christianity by John Stott***The foreword of this tells me there are few landmark books that everyone in the world should read – "this is one of the few".
John Stott says :Our chief claim to nobility as human beings is that we were made in the image of God and are therefore capable of knowing him.And I say :  Sez you!
John Stott is saying that Christianity is a project by God. He created humanity and gave us the free will to sin and guess what, we sin all day long, day in, day out.
I've read maybe three or four really good books, besides the Bible, that have helped me in my walk with Christ.
Stott has a very direct way of explaining his points and backs up each claim with scripture, which I believe is a bit different than C.S. Lewis's Mere Christianity.
I would definitely not give this book to a non-believer, as I think it's more of a book for a person who's coming close to accepting Christ or who already has and is looking to strengthen his relationship.
If someone doesn't believe, I don't think this is the book that's going to change their mind.
Good for what it is. I would cautiously recommend it to someone who has just become a Christian and knows nothing about the faith. I guess the title is accurate, although it is slanted in favor of the Evangelical Protestant perspective entirely. I dislike the author's insistence that one use a modern translation of the Bible. It's as if the Protestant church has decided to bury the KJV as fast as possible. Sorry, I still prefer it.
I know I'm only 50+ years late to the party, but this is excellent. Clear, winsome, and surprisingly comprehensive. This must still be one of the go-to books for anyone wanting an introduction to the Christian faith.
It was a good book teaching what Christians should know. I especially enjoyed the last two chapters.
They tell us that the religion of the Bible is a religion of the initiative of God. Premise/plot: Basic Christianity by John Stott is a Christian classic for a reason: it is GOOD.
John StottChristianity is a religion of salvation, and there is nothing in the non-Christian religions to compare with this message of a God who loved, and came after, and died for, a world of lost sinners.
John StottAll that was achieved through the death of Jesus on the cross had its origin in the mind and heart of the eternal God. No explanation of Christ's death or man's salvation which fails to do justice to this fact is loyal to the teaching of the Bible.
So straightforward; I enjoyed it much more than I thought I would.
Excellent.
He's never attended seminary or any other formal training, but he'd been serving as a lay reader and extremely dedicated volunteer to an extremely tiny and aging rural congregation, helping to keep it alive and even building it up.I'm not a religious person (I have that same vague attraction to mystery and 'spirituality' that so many of us can't define and can't easily reconcile with the rest of our outlook, but it's never manifested as an explicitly religious impulse), and I certainly wouldn't call myself Christian, though I was raised in the Anglican church.
And so that's how I came to own a book like Basic Christianity (I have other religious books, including classics of Christian thought, but that's more about understanding the history of Western ideas than anything else).Stott's book is clear, open, and written in plain language, which made for very easy reading.
Thankfully his seeming openness to an annihilation view of hell did not come out (I have read quotes about this tentative position from his contribution in Evangelical Essentials: A Liberal-Evangelical Dialogue (InterVarsity, 1988).
It takes the reader (listener!) wire to wire from considering Christ to trusting Christ to living for Christ.
I was also very pleased with his focus on the essential nature of being rooted in a local church after conversion.
This was a great listen because it is very equipping for communicating the truth to unbelievers as well as new believers.
I needed to take this in small doses as Dr. Stott is an extremely intelegent man and digestion of his thoughts helps. I'd put this with Lewis's Mere Christanity as they sort of compliment. (I like Lewis best if I need to choose, but also like Dr, stoot. they both humble me.)
Clearer and more straightforward than Lewis's Mere Christianity, and more biblically grounded, but not nearly as delicious a read.
Fantastic short introduction to Christianity. Excellent to use with someone investigating Christianity or to ground the new believer. It’s also an excellent refresher for the mature Christian.
He was conservative, but as a British evangelical, he lacked the political aggressiveness that has often accompanied American evangelicals.
I remember him being more conservative than most of my Fuller professors, some of whom shared his British Anglicanism, but not too far to the right.John Stott is representative of an older evangelicalism, which paired conservative theology with openness to culture and science.
As Stott notes in the preface to the third edition, this is a period piece: "It reflects the culture of its own day and needs ot be allowed to remain itself." (p.
This book is what its title describes, a Basic Christianity.
It speaks to the role of the trinity and each part played in the work of salvation by God the father, Christ the son, and the Holy Spirit.
The main point is that this book gives a solid understanding of what Christianity is all about.
Christianity is about God the father showing mercy and grace to his creation by sending his son, Jesus Christ, in human form to pay the ransom for the sins of His elect.
Some reviewers say the book is outdated, that the message needs to be updated.
I am reading several books to prepare for a Basics of the Christian faith book.
I was frustrated, however, upon finding several errors.
The other was a few theological errors which was frustrating.
The entire point of Basic Christianity is not introduce theology that is not very sound.
This is a good book for someone who is already a Christian, but I would not find it that useful for people who are struggling with doubt.
My concern is that the errors would throw them off from the core truth that should be the focus of a book that covers the foundations of the Christian faith.
Read and Keep as ResourceStott's short, well organized book forms an excellent introduction or much needed re-introduction to Christianity. He does well to begin the book by addressing the necessary frame of mind for the reader to benefit from the claims of the book. The statements he makes throughout are a bold and assertive presentation of Christian belief, but are made in a disarming, non-confrontational way. The tone is warm and friendly, which is uncommon for what is basically an apologetic work. The book is a good resource for reaching both the sceptic and the nominal or unconverted Christian.
This is a classic. Stott has an easy to understand writing style, which is easy to digest for either the lifetime Christian or the new believer. Yet, he does not shy away from discussing Christian theology in a way that doesn't "dumb down" many of the most fundamental truths of the Christian faith. As a summary of the book says, this is a "sound, sensible guide for all who seek an intellectually satisfying explanation of the Christian faith." This classic exposition of the Christian doctrine should be a part of every serious believer's bookshelf.
A fairly decent overview of Christian fundamentals. Nothing too deep here; nothing too revolutionary. Just (as the title indicates) the basics with a bit more of a reformed theology bend than anything else. This would probably be a great book to give to a new believer (who is willing to read such things) or to use to fuel your discussions with new believers. I used it to help me frame some discussions with my children and for that, it was a fairly good resource.
As this book suggests, it is basic, but that is what makes it so good. This would be a good and quick read for any new Christian or anyone who had questions about the faith. It is short easy to read, and filled with wonderful exposition and apology. If you've think you've got it all figured out, you could benefit from this book. It will cause you to recall the foundation of your faith, and the cornerstone of your salvation. This book is Christ applied and lived out. This is an absolute Christian essential.
Probably the best book I have read on the (scripturally based theological) basics of christianity. It is detailed, but to the point. I don't love John Stott's writing and find it boring at times (the last 2-3 chapters were harder to get through), but his strengths come through in this book. He is very good at comprehensively covering every aspect of a topic.This will likely become the book I recommend to people who are trying to understand Christianity.
Simple read. I would say for an introduction to Christianity it's a good one to open up. It's not the "best" but still think it's worth handing to someone who is on the fence or looking into Christianity. Quick read, chapters on Christ are like cookies on the bottom shelf "easy to grasp", the back half of the book is very fitting for pointing someone to the proper response and expectation for a life submitted to Jesus. Give it a read.
First of all, this book was written by John Stott (who is ranked №82 in “100 most influential people in the world” by TIME in 2005), a private counselor on the spiritual issues of the Queen of the United Kingdom. I can say that it comes at the head of the books that need to be read about Christianity. The writer has both religion knowledge and good narrative style.
Stott's Basic Christianity was originally published in 1958, and is an excellent introduction to the Christian faith. It would serve well as an evangelistic tool to give to those who may have an interest in the Christian faith, as it gives supportive evidence to the deity of Christ, the sinfulness of mankind, and the substitutionary atonement of Christ for the forgiveness of sins.
A true classic that I had put off reading for a long time and now I wish I hadn’t. Stott takes the basics and instead of coming off elementary it makes us look at the state of churches today with much skepticism. Every pastor should read this book. It’s not a hard read but it is deceptively deep though. Great, great book.
Best book of it’s kind (better than “Mere Christianity,” I think). Written for those interested enough in Christianity to read a book and familiar enough with the Bible to understand the references and allusions. The chapter sequence is logical/progressive and the writing, winsome and engaging.
Stott attempts to explain the very essence of the Christian faith by stating a little bit about God, creation, sin, Christ, redemption and faith. He then works to build an answer to how these things affect us and what they mean. It may be okay. Not something I would recommend though
Great book, right up until the final chapter, which was jarringly similar to insipid TV ads to "ask Jesus into your heart". Ugghh ... couldn't believe that the careful expositor of the rest of the book actually wrote this last chapter.
A new classic for my shelf. Such a great book.
So many better books on basic Christianity. I'd never give this to someone wondering about the religion or person of Jesus. Severely outdated feel and language in my opinion.
