https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/554914.The_Language_of_Love
HOW THE LANGUAGE OF LOVE WILL CHANGE THE WAY I PREACHI have traditionally taught through the Scripture with a clear goal of teaching the truth faithfully and communicating the meaning of the text.
The Language of Love gave me a well structured method for creating better word pictures in my preaching.Smalley and Trent put into practice their method by vividly presenting word pictures throughout their book that set an example for the reader of how to create word pictures and effectively use them.
Mostly good, even though the two guys who wrote it are not very smart, especially Smalley. They even admit to their stupidity in the book.
There are 101 examples of Life-Tested Word Pictures which appear at the end of the book.Here are two of them: 56 - "I feel like a hamster in a maze of hills and dark holes, weary from wrong turns and dead ends.
There is more direction and definition to the path than there has been in years, and fever rocks to climb over."I hope your day feels more like number 35.
Try a Word-Picture to express how you feel as you face this New Year.
As someone who loves words and speaking and reading, I was shocked to identify a large gap in the way i understand the people in my life.
this book has helped me understand my spouse better, instead of looking (and hearing) merely the words, it's helping to get the whole picture at once.
sometimes words, even well meaning and loving, can fall flat or on deaf ears.
this book is a great reminder that the how and what are equaly important.
anyone who is struggling to understand someon they love ahould read this...and if you aren't struggling, read it anyway.
This book completely changed the way I parented my children and helped me become a better wife. I learned to show each of them that I love them by loving them with their specific love language(s). I also use this concept with most everyone whom becomes a part of my friendship circle. I have passed this book on to many people.
Exceptionally helpful book aiding to address any possible situation in one's family or social life. The idea is not new; the principles of it were well used as early as in the biblical writing. Great reminder to all of us who forget at the times.
In this gem, Gary Smalley offers a powerful communication tool for speaking with your loved ones as well as wider audiences. His memorable stories make his points stick long after you've forgotten the words on the page.
Really a good book. Now if I can only learn to use word pictures on a regular basis!
Marriage
Read this years ago, it had some interesting suggestions.
THIS IS A GOOD BOOK IN WORD PICTURES TO COMMUNICATE
I love Gary Smalley's books!
I couldn't put this book down ,Gary Smalley has a great sense of humor and he is so funny ,He laughs at himself or it seems that way .I recommend this book and give it Five Stars .
I couldn't add another category ;0) This book is Christian self-help and learning. It's got great lessons to help important messages to loved ones when you seem like you've lost the ability too.
A good book about using word pictures to express love and encouragement.
It has some good points about how to use word pictures. It just seemed a little redundant. It was worth reading for the practical application it helped me with though.
Learning communication through the language..our words have power, either to destry--discourage or to build up and encourage--read it and learn.
