https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/40604846-nothing-to-envy
They don’t stop to think that in the middle of this black hole, in this bleak, dark country where millions have died of starvation, there is also love. A painfully human look at North Korea (mostly) through the eyes of defectors now living in South Korea or China.Demick peels back the layers of propaganda, parades and leader worship to expose the people and lives underneath. If you're anything like me, you'll find it hard not to be fascinated by this exceptionally secretive country and wonder w
If you're anything like me, you'll find it hard not to be fascinated by this exceptionally secretive country and wonder what everyday life can really be like living in one of the strictest regimes on earth.Of course, even in the darkest places there are love stories, hopes, dreams and family dynamics.
That underneath all the craziness that is this regime and its deified leader, there are more than 20 million people just trying to feed their families, live their lives, and not get killed for it.
It should.P.S.There is an impressive bibliography at the end for this book for any who might be inspired to read about this place in more depth.=============================EXTRA STUFF2/13/12 - North Korea Agrees to Curb Nuclear Work; U.S. Offers Aid - The question is not raised in this New York Times article if any of the food aid will ever find its way to the general population or will be taken to feed the army and party officials6/14/13 - GR friend Jan Rice, in comment #8 below, posted on June 13, 2013, included a link to an AP story about NK, particularly how schools are still promoting hatred of Americans.
Barbara Demick explores the most closed-off society in the world through the stories of six "ordinary" North Koreans who defect to South Korea beginning in the late 1990s.
Through their stories, Demick covers a bit of everything (the pathological weirdness that was/is Kim Il-sung and Kim Jong-Il and the cult of worship - and fear of reprisal - that made people cry harder at the former's death than they ever had in their lives, the role of a totalitarian government in the everyday lives of people, the deterioration of North Korea into blackouts/famine/starvation, South Korea's/China's reception of North Korean defectors) very skillfully without sensationalizing; the subject matter speaks for itself.
This book is a very personal account of six lives in the failed state of North Korea.
The book reads more like an outstanding piece of social anthropology than it does cut and dried journalism.
Reading this book in the comfort of my own well heated home, I felt both pity for those that live in North Korea and anger for the inability of the rest of the world to do anything while North Korea's citizens starve to death.
I highly recommend this book to anyone concerned about the social welfare of people and the role that government plays in people's lives.
In the aftermath of the Korean war my mother's brother left an enigmatic note on his pillow before stepping out for school.
Part of the warming relations between North and South Korea, it offered the chance for families separated by the border to connect.
This was the first any of the family had ever heard from him.My mother eventually traveled to North Korea to meet with her brother.
Her brother is relatively affluent by North Korean standards, a professor who has raised a large family.
In it author Barbara Demick pieces together the lives of 6 North Koreans who eventually defect to South Korea.
Why would all this rich food be just lying here, in the middle of the floor of a dirty cold barn?Just then, she hears the dog.As Barbara Demick icily observes at this moment in the book, "Dr. Kim now realized the truth: in China, dogs ate better than doctors did back in North Korea."It is a moment of epiphany, and one of six realizations that separate six defectors' lives from their existence in North Korea from their subsequent lives in the free world.
بچه ها و بزرگ هایی که از قحطی می میرند و سو تغذیه ای که کره شمالی هارو بسیار کوتاه تر و ضعیف تر از هم نسل های کره جنوبی شون کردهکشور های همسایه، چین و کره جنوبی، به قدرت های اقتصاد و صنعت جهان تبدیل می شن وقتی کره شمالی هنوز در یک قرن پیش یخ زده ولیحتی کمونیزم،گرسنگی و عقب ماندگی فرهنگی نمی تونه یک سری چیز ها کامل از بین ببره.
The individual lives take center stage, illuminated by what we know of North Korean history.
Capitalism doesn't make their lives 100% better when they escape, and pretty much right off the bat Demick clarifies that Nothing To Envy is not about "oh those wacky North Koreans!" Much of this book demonstrates how to brainwash an entire country into an entire ideology...
This book bring back individuality to a nation that's so often reduced to a horror story or a joke.
The sense of individuality in this book will stick with me.
I'm completely overwhelmed by just how many lives have been snuffed out in the North Korean famine.
Nothing to Envy: Ordinary Lives in North Korea Barbara Demick is an American author and journalist"Our father, we have nothing to envy in the world. Our house is within the embrace of the Workers’ Party. We are all brothers and sisters. Even if a sea of fire comes toward us, sweet children do not need to be afraid, our father is here. We have nothing to envy in this world."Popular song taught to North Korean school children praising the Dear Leader***********************************************S
Chol (a pseudonym), a nine-year-old North Korean boy, shows a picture of the place where he was raised by his grandparents in North Korea- Photo by Katharina HesseIn interviews, Demick has mentioned that her motivation to write this book was to find answers to questions many of us have: What happens to people living in the most totalitarian of regimes?
Kim Jeong-Ya (a pseudonym) a Chinese activist helps North Koreans defectors cross safely to China- Photo by Katharina Hesse The majority of people become defectors by crossing the Tumen River which divides the two countries.
Nothing to Envy: Ordinary Lives in North Korea, Barbara Demickعنوان: افسوس نمیخوریم - زندگی مردم عادی در کره شمالی؛ نویسنده: باربارا دمیک؛ مترجم: حسین شهرابی؛ مینا جوشقانی؛ تهران، تندیس، 1393؛ در 414 ص؛ شابک: 9786001821349؛همه بسیار از دولت کره ی شمالی شنیده ایم و شنیده ایم چه تنگناها و فشارهای باورنکردنی و احمقانه برای مردمانش میسازد.
مردم کره ی شمالی چطور عاشق میشوند؟ کمبودهای غذایی و قحطیها را چگونه تاب میآورند؟ چه فیلمهایی میبینند؟ نویسنده این کتاب میکوشد از طریق روایت زندگی پنج انسان عادی، که از کره ی شمالی گریخته اند؛ تصویری دیگر اما بسیار غریب به دست دهد.
I think that this image better than any other raises the question of how democratic the Democratic People's Republic of North Korea really is, and is it really a kind of society which takes good care of its citizens?North Korea seems to be the country which fell out of the world, as you can see if you'll take a look at an satellite photograph of the Far East taken at nighttime, you'll see Japan and South Korea, and even China; but you'll also see a black spot.
This is the world that North Koreans live in today, at this moment, and this is a book which deserves to be read for people to understant it.
I have been meaning to read something, anything about North Korea for some time now.
What better than to hear personal stories from the people who live there to give me a better understanding of mindset?Though Barbara Demick's book was published in 2010 and many of the people she follows tell their stories from the 90's, I believe I have a better picture of the country and people as a whole.
If I took anything at all from this book it is that there is nothing to envy" in North Korea, but much to learn from the ordinary lives of its inhabitants.
The usual punishment for breaking this law is to be sent to the gulag (or concentration camp, whatever name for this North Korean institution you prefer).It was forbidden in Hitler’s Germany to listen to the BBC or any other foreign radio station.
There weren’t any travel restrictions within Hitler’s Germany, but during the war, it became difficult to leave the country without being arrested at the border.There are no workers’ rights in North Korea.
In Hitler's Germany, too, party membership furthered careers.The living conditions in North Korean gulags (concentration camps) are horrific.
Based mostly on interviews with 6 North Koreans who defected to South Korea and from the author's own experience, this book takes the reader into an often difficult read of how North Koreans are being lied to, brainwashed, imprisoned, starved, and killed by their own atheist, Communist government, while their dynastic dictators, the murderous Kims and their cronies continue to live in the lap of luxury.
With the North Korean Communist dictatorship itself deliberately starving its people so they don't have the physical strength to resist, breaking the "law" is not just imperative to survive; it is the right thing to do.
Marvellous. I would say a must read.This book has several threads.... Firstly it discusses the general idiosyncrasies of life in North Korea under the guru gaze of Kim il-sung and then Kim Jong-il. Think Gulliver's Travels mixed with Alice in Wonderland, then give it a good shake.... I could hardly believe what I was reading. It's another world, and not in a good way. Secondly, it follows the lives of several people who ultimately defect to South Korea. These people give us great insight into l
Even the frog population was wiped out.People sold everything they had in order to try and buy food.By 1998 an estimate 600,000 - 2 million North Koreans had died of starvation.
As much as 10% of the population.The famine ended in 1998, but people were still undernourished.The average 17 year-old boy is 5" shorter in North Korea than he is in South Korea.Foreign Aid.Between 1996 - 2005 NK would receive about $2.4 billion in food aid....most of it from America.
It can be utterly paralyzing for people who've had decisions made for them by the state their entire lives."These are the stories of North Korean defectors: people who risked everything to escape a totalitarian country.
It was impossible to read this nonfiction book and not be reminded of George Orwell's 1984.; difficult to read Demick's recount of how she gathered the information without seeing traces of Laura Ling's Somewhere Inside: One Sister's Captivity in North Korea and the Other's Fight to Bring Her Home.
Demick was a journalist and Bureau Chief for North and South Korea when she gathered information for this book.
I can't stop reading it.I never try to understand North Korea, for Chinese people like me, North Korea is ignored.
But I don't know North Korea people live in such a condition in 1990s, when I was a troubled teenager.
Like a kid in US ask "do African kids use Facebook?"From the book, I am reassured again that people could be touched by the most subtle happenings in their lives, even those who are brainwashed.
People change because of small things.
Small things are triggers for them to make their decisions to leave North Korea, even the true believers of the regime.
I started reading this book as a buddy read with a Goodreads friend, but she decided it wasn’t the right book at the right time for her, so I continued on alone, grateful that it had been her suggestion and I got it off my to read shelf, and I’m so glad that I did.There is a helpful map and I love maps in books, though I wish it had been even more heavily labeled as many places were mentioned didn’t appear on it.
Because I read a surreal work of fiction by Adam Johnson called The Orphan Master's Son, a novel that was very well researched (and which I highly recommend), there were probably not as many surprises for me as for another reader who knows even less about North Korea.
The shame might be to have relatives living in China or South Korea - this offense taints the family bloodline for three generations, regardless of the intellect or talent or physical status of the person.
Like the people in the Siege of Leningrad who were starved for hundreds of days, the North Korean families died of starvation or were stunted in their growth and development for a decade.
Author Barbara Demick chose to approach the topic of North Korea smartly--by interviewing at length a handful of North Korean defectors from various walks of life.
North Korea is unlike any country on Earth, and the subjects of this book are very unlike the average person.
It isn’t the best book to read to learn about North Korea’s history or anything detailed about Kim Il-sung and Kim Jong-il.
Demick explained little about them, mostly focusing on how beloved Kim Il-sung was (a fascinating example of how thorough North Korea’s brainwashing is) and how important such love and admiration was to him.
Very engaging look at North Korea. You hear so many stories about what happens there but book really brought everything to the front. I have tried to read another book somewhat on North Korea and just could not finish it. Nothing to Envy kept me enthralled from the very beginning. It is hard to believe the things that went on in the country especially in the times we live in today. It is a heart-breaking read but an eye opening one also. Not to be missed.
It’s one thing to read dystopias like 1984 and theoretically visualize an authoritarian government; it’s another thing entirely to read of real people who actually live under totalitarian rule.
If the reading of a classic like the former is perhaps a more powerful reading experience, this nonfiction work proves a more empathetic one.Demick writes in an ‘easy’ style, making this a work anyone can (and perhaps should) consume.
I became invested in these lives and only wished I knew even more of them.One of the defectors is a former university student, a voracious reader, and is given by Demick a copy of 1984.
The country was literally asset stripping itself in an effort to survive in the 1990s.There is then for all Demick's sources a side into hunger, poverty and loss, circumstances that lead them to do something relatively exceptional for North Koreans according to Demick, which is to defect over the river border with China and from thence to South Korea, via Mongolia or airports.
On the other hand, as Demick explains, western reporters (she works for The Los Angeles Times) are not allowed any free access to Northern Koreans while they are in North Korea.
In addition, to her interviews of the defectors in South Korea, Demick has done extensive reporting on Korean history, government, and culture.
Demick, on the other hand, was able to interview only about a hundred defectors from North to South Korea and focused on six, originally from the Chongjin, who had managed to escape to South Korea.
With stories like these, I see how a tyrannical government managed to keep such a tight rein on its people for seventy years.
I felt that Demick really got to know her subjects and that she presented them as interesting and complex people, without shying away from an acknowledgment -- familiar from stories of Holocaust survivors -- of how those individuals with the wits, strength, and courage to survive and defect often differ from the general population in sometimes unattractive ways.
I was hugely moved by their stories and impressed by their bravery, but also saw them as real human beings with both good and bad traits, which is part of what made the book work so well.In short, this book is interesting and engaging and I'd recommend it to pretty much anyone with even a casual interest in North Korea up to 2009, when it was published.
Some links I've come across that are helping me understand and digest this book better:Vice on Youtu
Maybe I don't want to (prostitutes or dead, or in jail, or sold into slavery in China).Demick writes that the people she interviewed were those who could not find their place in North Korea.
I liked that they tried to pretend for a while that they had anything of their own lives apart from what North Korea wanted them to have.
Viva PortugalDepois de me ter familiarizado com a realidade asfixiante que se vive na Coreia do Norte, só me apetece gritar alto e bom som: Viva Portugal
Though the author was only able to visit North Korea once, on an official tour with two handlers by her side at all times, she has been able----through her extensive investigative work with expats (escapees)----to portray an amazingly detailed account of what it was like to live in North Korea under Kim Il-sung and his son.
The result for the children of the Hongerwinter was a set of health problems that would persist throughout their lives..

