https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/47076.The_Girls
But you don’t get over a loss like that.
No matter how things play out in the end.”This was an amazing story, about conjoined twins, Rose and Ruby.I don’t really know what to say about it, I am not a book reviewer, or a writer.
I feel like I can’t do it justice by a quick synopsis, or giving my thoughts as I read the last word (it was “gosh” and a sigh).This book, which I came by accidentally, it reminds me why I read.
Coming across novels like this is why I love books, is why I keep reading.
Ugh. I had to force myself to finish this book.
This is a book about twin girls conjoined at the head, written alternately by each girl in autobiographical form.
Here are the things that made me not like this book:1.
I did not understand why it took them 30 years to figure out that some sort of wheeled assistive device would drastically improve their lives- so Rose wouldn't be carrying Ruby ALL the time.
It could have been a beautifully-written story, but instead it seemed like two diaries published with no editing except maybe spell-check.
And even though I know that this story is fiction, I can't help but think that somewhere, two girls share a life that is a lot like that of Rose and Ruby Darlen.
But with the love of their family and the help, support, and dedication of a wonderful cast of supporting characters, the Darlen girls make a name for themselves in Leaford.
I applaud Ms. Lansens for her wonderful writing skills, and, although I am sad to say goodbye to Rose and Ruby Darlen, I wish them the best that life has to offer.
I love when I finish a book and it stays with me for days afterward as I continue to wonder about the characters and what may still be happening even though the story in the book has ended.
This is going to be one of those books.
I can't think of one negative thing to say about any aspect of this book.
I loved the characters, ALL of them.
I loved that the author told the story as if Rose and Ruby were writing an autobiography (I had to remind myself it was fiction numerous times).Simply an amazing, moving, richly written book.
Yep.This story is unique in its premise - a back and forth of two conjoined twins who have learned that they are dying - but the execution was a real disappointment.
The actual complicated layers of such a situation (never being alone, never being able to fully choose for you, never being perceived as your own person) remained untouched, and Lansens allowed the premise to be the only interesting factor in this work.
Instead of having them actually be interesting people in their own right, you get the sense that the only thing going for them is their freaky status.
The edition I bought has a little reader's guide questions-section at the end, which I started to read because I kind of didn't want the book to end (seriously, it was really good) and one of the questions was something to the effect of "Why did the author choose to write this novel as a first-person narrative?
Did you ever have to remind yourself that you were reading a novel and not an autobiography?" Yes, it was very convincing as a memoir and I kept reminding myself that it really wasn't one and getting kind of disappointed that these people were figments of someone's imagination.
Rose, Ruby and their families and friends feel so real throughout the book.
It's impossible not to feel sorry and happy for them...they struggle to maintain their individuality, some people view them as "monsters" or one person with two heads but they have a wonderful family full of support and love...and their very best friend around when they need 'em.
THE GIRLS is written as an autobiography, started by Rose to tell the story of her life -- and, with it, the story of Ruby's life, as well.
Interspersed with chapters written by Ruby herself, the story doesn't always unfold in chronological order.
One of the least engaging books I have read in a very long time. I found the main characters of Rosie and Ruby to be exceptionally boring and slightly annoying. It literally felt as though I was reading someone's mundane diary, dreary boring details that may make up a good diary for the writer however do nothing for an outside reader.
I admit I was attracted to this book because it was about conjoined twins. But, the fascination quickly wore off and I was left wondering when the characters were going to come to life and become compelling beyond their conjoinment. The story never came to life for me.
40)It was Aunt Lovey's belief that all ordinary people led extraordinary lives, but just didn't notice.
And I wanted a movie clapboard for me (just in case you don't know, a movie clapboard is used so the director knows how many times the actor has forgotten his lines).
197)That last quote is especially funny for me because my job in real life is to operate the "clapboard" (among other things) and that is not exactly its function but if I memorize that, it'll be funny to recite it at work.[Uncle Stash] said, "People don't finish, Rose.
People stop.
The Girls ( Ruby and Rose). are conjoined twins. They each have their individual personalities, with their own likes and beliefs.The book is touched with their humor and their adoptive parents who were so selfless in their love and care for the Girls.Each chapter is filled with events in the Girls lives with parents and friends.It was a real page turner.
My impressions were that most everybody in this book was whacko, and that made the kind of far-out premise of the story (an autobiography of twin girls joined at the head) really quite believable, but what I liked BEST about this book was the UTTERLY convincing voices of the two narrators: one of them a little high-falutin' in tone, with literary pretensions, and the other wholly down to earth, with hidden reserves and talents.
I really was very impressed, not with the amount of research the author must have done, but with how thoroughly and unfailingly she NAILED her characters.A very enjoyable and unusual story.
I finished this astounding book a week ago and wanted to comment as to how the characters and their story have lingered.
The novel chronicles their attempt to forge ordinary lives despite extraordinary circumstances.
Lori Lansens excels at personifying their different personalities and their individual and collective reaction to a range of issues including: the reality of their birth mother, the death of their "adoptive" parents, the reaction of others they meet and the pregnancy of one sister.
I felt as if I'd spent time with Rose and Ruby and gained personal insight into their feelings, aspirations, frustrations and disappointments.
An evocative novel, it is truly a good read.
But having finished it, I think I would have enjoyed it more if Ruby's contributions had been left out altogether.Rose is bogged down by trying to be a proper writer, and I found her musing about tone, theme, and narrative structure clogged up the story and pushed me away emotionally.
On top of that, I found I liked Ruby's story-telling better, and almost wished it was her diary I was reading, not Rose's autobiography.
I don't think the characters changed much during the novel, and it certainly wasn't plot-driven.
But I realized it had to end and once you start reading it you'll realize it too.I loved that fact that Rose and Ruby seemed so down to earth.
Probably more Ruby than Rose.My favorite line: Maybe I'm not intellectually lazy after all.
Maybe I'm just lonely for someone with similar interests.-The Girls - (RUBY)If you are looking for a great book to read without a paranormal aspect then read "THE GIRLS".
Though I hesitate to say that the content of The Girls will stay with me for years to come, the premise surely will, and that's definitely saying something.
A novel about conjoined twins in Northern Ontario, writing a joint memoir—a written account of their lives, alternating voices and periods in time—knowing that their death is imminent?
There's certainly a hook there.
Where most books have plot and character development, The Girls has quiet reflection.
And while this is certainly admirable, it was just too long to be a complete success.
Bonus points for being so well-researched about craniopagus twins.
This is an intriguing look at what life would be like for two people with distinct personalities living inseparable lives.
“It was Aunt Lovey’s belief that all ordinary people led extraordinary lives, but just didn’t notice.” Think of how profound that is!
I think applies particularly well to the story of these girls.
Although they had a very unusual medical condition (joined at the head from birth), Ruby and Rose led ordinary lives.
The story is written from the perspective of each twin about their day to day experiences throughout their life.
I found this book while browsing through my public libraries download section.
I was looking for a book to try out on my new Nook (LOVE my Nook).
I didn't really need a book i wanted to read - it was just a learning exercise.
But this one look somewhat interesting so I gave it a try.
I love love love this book.
I still have about 10 pages left to read - and I am taking it really slow because I do not want it to end.
I am really looking forward to ready Lansens' other novel.
I was a bit slow to get into this book, but once Ruby's contributions began I was hooked! I LOVED the side-by-side descriptions from each sister about the events of their life (their often contradicting accounts were quite hilarious too). This story is one of Love, Family, and overcoming adversity and I enjoyed it so much that I can confidently say this is one of my favourite books of my life thus far! I thoroughly enjoyed Lori Lansens book "A Mountain Story" as well. Her characters are very relatable and real to me.Loved it, loved it, loved it!
Rose and Ruby are twin sisters. Craniopagus sisters. This is Rose's autobiography and Ruby's by default. It is the story of their incredible lives that are so simply lived. It is the story of their aunt and uncle (again by default) that raised them, and loved them, and loved each other. I truly enjoyed the simplicity of their stories that showed compassion, compromise, longing, hope and forgiveness.
This book. I love love loved it. It will stay with me for a long time. Such fabulous and memorable characters. Highly recommend.
This is the second book I have read by Lori Lansens, and she is a great story teller, who makes it seem like you are being told a story by a good friend.
The author did a great job of separating the two characters and letting each tell of their own experiences as individuals.
Although they live a very unique life, they have the same dreams, fears, ambitions, as any one else may have.
They therefore have to learn unique ways to to face life's challenges.
Well worth the read.
We've been called many things: freaks, horrors, monsters, devils, witches, retards, wonders, marvels. To most, we're a curiosity. In small-town Leaford, where we live and work, we're just “The Girls”. Rose and Ruby Darlen are 29, and the world's oldest surviving craniopagus (conjoined at the head) twins. When an aneurysm in Rose's brain provides the sisters with a deadline, Rose decides to finally write her autobiography, and although Ruby has never been interested in writing, she is cajoled in
Rose loves writing and watching sports, while Ruby likes trashy TV and searching for Native artefacts in the fields of the family farm.
There are many, many anecdotes (spanning generations) captured in these pages – with Rose trying to form them into a story arc and Ruby writing mainly in the present – and all together, it paints a portrait of extraordinary people who have lived ordinary (and more than you'd think, separate) lives, complete with the worrying about aging parents, yearning for romantic love, and searching for a way to leave a mark on the world that we all experience.By the end of The Girls, with the mounting ill effects of the aneurysm affecting their ability to write and otherwise get around, the book becomes more introspective; whereas at first Rose was anxious to finish a polished and publishable manuscript, in the end, she accepted that creating art for its own sake is oftentimes enough.
Therefore it was difficult to continue reading (like many have said).
As a reader I always like to 'hear' what a writer is saying even if I don't believe it is a particularly good book.
Having said that there were some interesting details in the book that redeemed it such as Aunt Lovey's selflessness in caring for the twins.
As much as I tried to like it because it had been recommended to me I really found it difficult and not really compelling enough for me to keep reading avidly.
Who would have thought of writing a novel about Siamese twins?Lori Lansens takes the unlikely premise of twin girls joined at the head and manages to create a well-written novel so believable that I never once questioned its verisimilitude (which is saying a lot for a detail-oriented cynic like me).
Rose and Ruby are the world's oldest living craniopagus twins, joined at the skull.
Using this extreme example of sisters who are equally compelled to be united and separate, Lansens explores the sister relationship.
Like Middlesex, this novel used a rare condition to explore universal human truths and did it beautifully.
C'était intéressant de voir les deux points de vue (j'aurais pris plus de Ruby - Rose parfois s'éternisait, genre sur le voyage en Slovaquie) d'évènements qui avaient été vécus différemment même si seulement séparés par quelques centimètres.
(hide spoiler)] Narration double très réussie, donc.Comme j'ai mentionné, il y avait quand même pas mal de longueurs, et j'aurais coupé une centaine de pages (que je calcule personnellement comme "deux trajets d'autobus") pour resserrer autour de ce qui m'intéressait davantage - comme les relations entre les filles, ou avec leur entourage: Nick, Mme Merkel, etc.
Presented as a first person narrative, Rose and Ruby Darlen take turns writing their autobiography.
Ruby, on the other hand, doesn't see the point of an autobiography at all -- because technically it isn't an autobiography if there's two of you -- but she doesn't want her opinions left out of her sister's book, so Ruby writes her chapters on a yellow legal pad, and Rose writes hers on a laptop, and they're not allowed to read what the other is writing.
Ruby's voice is a lot more personable than Rose's, and mostly focuses on what their life is like at the time they're writing the book.
This means that a lot of what Ruby writes spoils the reader for Rose's slow reveal of the facts.
My only minor quibble with the book was the sheer number of time the author wrote "we are conjoined".
Judy and I would call each other and ask, "Hey, did you know these girls are conjoined?" It got to be a joke.
What's up?" and I said, "I think they were conjoined." and we both got the giggles.The other quibble I had with it was the girls' trip to Slovakia, which in my opinion was set up to be a huge, disastrous experience, and in fact, after I read it, I thought, "uh huh, and?" But there were other parts that made up for it.
Lansen's genius is in creating a book about very unique circumstances, but making their story as universal as any we'd read, while at the same time writing a book about writing and the subjectivity that authors bring to their work.
When you feel yourself questioning the reliability of Rose in telling her truth and then you feel vindicated when Ruby tells you that Rose left out a bunch of stuff and you shake your head to remind yourself the whole thing is a work of fiction, that is when you realize what Lansen has accomplished.
I had added it to my "to read" list and then forgotten about it, but fortunately I came across it at a garage sale this summer for only $3 so I picked it up.
It is told in two voices, one for each sister, as "the girls" decide to write an autobiography to describe their experiences and stories while they still can, knowing that as conjoined twins their life expectancy is not that long.
It is a very powerful story, and I enjoy the two different perspectives we get in the voices of the two very different sisters, Rose and Ruby Darlen.
A great read!
