https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/171351.Out_of_the_Night
It is also one of the most incredible adventure stories that I have ever read, detailing one man's quixotic attempt to do anything possible for the advancement of the Comunist Party while living with the mantra "there's nothing a Bolshevik can't do."This book is an excellent example of how powerful narrative history can be.
This book, published in 1940, was a national best seller and generated a lot of sparks in the international communist world.
Ostensibly an international organization working towards world communism, Valtin, one of its more passionate and active members, gradually learns that it is little more than an arm of the Soviet GPU--the predecessor of the KGB.
Those who have had their eyes opened are often desperate that the blind shall see.The little known fact--again, especially having in mind the younger generations--is that thousands of passionate (and influential) adherents to the world communist movement chucked it in upon learning something similar.
1. This is one of the few stunning and amazing books that I would recommend to anyone. 2. This biography of German Communist between WWI and WWII will teach you more about humanity and evil and politics than anything else i have read. 3. I read this first at about 16 and I read it about every 10 years. 4. I think this should be required reading in every high school/college course on political science/International studies/ etc. 5. Not only is this a great history book. The writer wrote eloquently and imaginatively.
It describes the experience of a German Communist revolutionary from 1918 onwards: his training in the Soviet Union; his imprisonment in America; his capture by the Nazis and placement in a concentration camp; his release after convincing the Gestapo that he would work with them against the Communists (following a meeting with Himmler); his return to the Communist fold but breaking with them because of their refusal to help him free his wife and toddler son who were being held hostage by the Nazis, and the ongoing Communist political turmoil (it was the time of the Moscow trials and Valtin was ordered to go to the Soviet Union for likely execution); and his flight to America.
now that you know this book exists, you have absolutely no excuse not to read it.
Sitting by the river in Machias, Maine, about as close to New Brunswick as you can get while still being in the U.S., I was reading 'Out of the Night' and overcome with the sense that I needed to make it to Montreal post-haste and write a song about Jan Valtin to perform at the second Band-Off in Saint Henri.
Nearly at tears as I read the last page of this book, I was overcome not with the certainty that anarchists have some solutions or answers to offer the proponents of authoritarian organizations, but that their is a real and profound tragedy in the world for which our ideals offer little comfort.
Driven by belief in world revolution, Valtin crisscrosses the globe and takes part in endless adventures and conspiracies, his faith challenged only by his love for his companion Firelei.
The Bolsheviks find themselves rivalled by their own children, the Nazis who copy Bolshevik methods of terror and discipline and whose Gestapo mirrors the GPU.
There is only a twisted commitment, and endless tragedy as the Nazis devour rank-and-file communists and Valtin, who survives long, hellish months of torture in Gestapo prisons, comes into conflict with the head of the Western Secretariat over its cynical methods and disdain for human life and love.
A very detailed and interesting autobiography of Richard Kreb a well-traveled man who had in his life worked for the communist, fascist, and capitalist causes (the International Comitern & the GPU, the Gestapo, and the American Army). His life begins in in post-World War I Germany during the 1920’s where there is political chaos, runaway inflation (a loaf of bread costs 1,000,000 marks) and massive unemployment. The young Kreb follows in his father’s footsteps becoming both a sailor and a c
A very detailed and interesting autobiography of Richard Kreb a well-traveled man who had in his life worked for the communist, fascist, and capitalist causes (the International Comitern & the GPU, the Gestapo, and the American Army).
His life begins in in post-World War I Germany during the 1920’s where there is political chaos, runaway inflation (a loaf of bread costs 1,000,000 marks) and massive unemployment.﻿ The young Kreb follows in his father’s footsteps becoming both a sailor and a communist agitator.
He describes how the leftist influence, under the direction of the Soviet Union, spent as much time undermining organizations with similar goals, but were not under their control, as fighting the systems they were supposedly against.
Storia del rivoluzionario Richard Krebs, da marinaio protagonista degli ammutinamenti contro il Kaiser nella prima guerra mondiale ad agente sovietico contro la Gestapo e poi contro gli stessi stalinisti. Una miniera di informazioni sulla lotta tra comunisti, socialdemocratici e nazisti prima dell'incendio del Reichstag, sui metodi di guerriglia e controspionaggio, sugli errori, si spera, che hanno portato Hitler al potere. Superbamente scritto.
Earned it's rating. This is such a textured and detailed bit of history, largely free of telios, from a period and angle that is hardly visible in the shadows of the liberalism's narrative of the world wars and interwar period on the one hand and the Soviet Union's disavowal and historical erasure of its internationalist program on the other. It is a history that has "fallen between the cracks."
Sublime. Una descripción brutal de la situación política y la militancia durante el periodo de entreguerras. Una descripción atroz del bolchevismo y del nazismo. Una descripción cruel y cientos de peripecias personales.Imprescindible para todo amante de la historia europeo de principios de siglo XX
Out of the Night is a book to obsess over. The book is about one man's tragedy spending his whole life fighting for the communist cause, compromising the means for the glorious ends. The moral compromises he commits for the general cause eventually destroys what he loves most. What do you do when your whole life is a lie?
The memoirs of a sometime German Communist, an agent of the Communist International (the Comintern) until he became marked for being purged in Stalin's Great Terror of the 1930's.
This is probably the most moving and fascinating book I have ever read.
In his whirlwind accounts of stealthy international communist activism, the level of detail can sometimes feel tedious, but when it comes to describing horrific events witnessed and experienced, his understated tone is exactly right.
By the end, you will feel like you've parted ways with a close friend.
I would advise new readers to be prepared for graphic descriptions, especially in Book III.
And for me, it was useful to keep handy 3 reference books: a dictionary, an atlas, and a history of the Third Reich.
Having checked out a hefty 1941 edition from the library, I really felt connected to the fascinating period of history recounted in this book.
Valtin/Krebs tells in great detail of his life in the 1920s and 30s traveling around the world for the Comintern and the reader really gets a sense of the dissolution of the revolutionary spirit as the party becomes more demanding and sends people into harm's way with little cause.
The book is definitely not exciting at all times, and it is 746 pages.
The rise of the National Socialist Party also factors extensively into the tale at great expense to the author.
There are a lot of reasons not to read this book which was on the best seller list in 1941.
The first reason it is that it tells a very unpleasant story with a backdrop of social upheaval on a scale largely unimaginable to today's declining number of readers.
The second reason is to not upset a belief in the inherent goodness of man and the ultimate victory of Communist ideals or its close relative on the political spectrum- fascism.
Regardless of your politics, the story of Valtin's life is a compelling adventure story and if started, I guarantee you will finish all of the 700 pages.
A deep, long yet engaging and ultimately very sad tale of life in the Communist Party and in Germany and other countries between the two world wars.
Jan Valtin dedicated his life to the Party, only for it to try to destroy him, and he details the dirty deeds and hypocrisy of the Comintern (misdeeds include robbing payroll trains, and allowing loyal members to be caught and killed by the enemy).
The fact that he died on New Year's Day 1951 (at the height of the Red Scare) I can't help but find suspicious, and it suggests that the Comintern might have got him in the end after all.
What an incredible, crazy life story. Intense and hard to keep track of because so much happens, going from one event to the next. International intrigue as a member of the comintern after years of riots in the streets of Germany and eventually settling in the US. Also kinds of gives a different perspective of what was happening in Germany pre-Nazi days. But I'm not sure I have a real grasp on it because this book has so much going on. Either way, fascinating stuff.
One of the most interesting books of the 20th century. What is the difference between the ideals of communism and the reality of Stalinism? Should the two be equated? Was fascism a response to communism, or was it a power structure unto itself? These are the kinds of questions Mr. Krebs explores in this incredibly fascinating memoir.
Bon là faut être honnête, c'est beaucoup plus qu'une livre. C'est une épopée racontée par un gars de 30 ans qui a déjà vécu 7 vies. Livre extraordinaire. Vraiment. Que je raconte même pas l'histoire d'abord ....
fantastic read. travelling through the political turmoil of post WW1 germany through the rise of Hitler, in the eyes of a german member of the comintern.
Believe the hype.
An amazing story of a real-life badass. More gripping than most fiction.
Excelente documento acerca de una época tumultuosa de poderosas ideologías . Su mayor mérito radica en la capacidad de juicio del autor para opinar sobre las circunstancias políticas que vivió .
Whether a true autobiography or not, this book is a gripping tale of life as both a communist and Gestapo spy and the tragic tale of what happens when politics comes before family.
Simplemente el mejor libro que leí en mi vida.
