https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1369974.Why_I_Live_at_the_P_O_and_Other_Stories
Repeating myself...
I first heard this story on tape, recorded by the author herself.
I can't remember when I laughed so hysterically.
(The only other time that comes even close was when listening to a recording of David Sedaris reading his account of a Christmas tale, titled "Six to Eight Black Men"...) Reading the written short story "Why I Live at the P.O." was just as entertaining, and even allowed me to pick up little details I had missed in listening to the recording.
If you want a great laugh, either the written story or the recording are wonderful!
First, because I read it out loud to my college boyfriend one summer when he was suffering a painful case of dysentery.
Still, I recommend it, especially out loud.Second sentimental reason is that when I had kids, my father wanted to be called something besides "Grandpa," and I remembered one of the characters in this story is "Papa-daddy," which I always found terribly funny.
So I tried to get my daughter to call my father Papa-daddy, but she couldn't pronounce that, and to this day he is called Papa-bunny instead.

"Why I Live at the P.O." is one of the funniest Southern short stories ever written. She paved the way for people like Flannery O'Connor, and even T. C. Boyle.
Ninguno de los cuatro relatos me ha conmovido pero eso no significa nada. Lo que importa en este caso es la capacidad de Eudora Welty de convertir cualquier hecho banal en una historia con significado. Eso solo saben hacerlo los buenos escritores.
I am listening to an audio book and Eudora Welty is the reader!!! Done! One disc. The pure genius of her writing and the added blessing of hearing her read the stories. A favorite. One disc. It flies by.
Four short stories published as a Penguin 60s book.Seldom do I find myself reading a story I find no connection with - of course normally I don't attempt read books that look like they are heading that way - but this short book had four of them!Probably I am too far removed from the time and the place, and I willingly admit that I know little about the politics and race relations of the time in order to appreciate this.For me the first (title) story was a nothing that went nowhere.
A mundane gossip fuelled and sniping family on the 4th of July.
One of my favorite stories! Absolutely smashing. Will get a good chuckle and a nod of approval from those of us who understand. Some of us are different, and we're happier and need our own space. Leave us alone. ;)
my favorite line from this book I stole from my friend Alan Huffman. "Why you just made that up sitting there eating breast of chicken"
My favorite Welty story. Her sense of humor is unparalleled and her portrayal of sibling rivalry and family dysfunction is superb!
one of the funniest short stories i have ever read. i have a sister, maybe that unfairly influences my opinion. stella rondo + moving out + living where you work + family feud = hilarity.
Hilarious.
Come and stand in my heart, whoever you are, and a whole river would cover your feet and rise higher and take your knees in whirlpools, and draw you down to itself, your whole body, your heart too.' (p.40)A strange obliqueness to this touching tale reminds me of the inbetween nature of H.E. Bates (The Triple Echo [1970]?), but the writing style of Hemingway.
This little collection of 4 short stories is a quirky assemblage of Southern US characters. They are funny little stories that paint an interesting picture of social norms of the time. A quick and amusing diversion.
Read and discussed this in American Literature class.
Sibling rivalry described with humor.
Poor sister, everything she does backfires.Writers is a great series on UEN.
The Eudora Welty House Foundation found and restored a film of unknown interviews and readings by Miss Welty.
A wondedful introduction to this prolific writer.She said this story was inspired by how people isolated in small towns dramatize everything to make life more interesting: have fights, stop talking to each other, give presents and take them back.
She says she didn't have a psychological plan in mind when she wrote this story.
She made it up as she wrote, trying to capture the speech patterns of small town Mississippi.
I had to get five years and fifteen hundred miles away from my home town to fully appreciate to Welty's writing. This story is quintessential Welty, quintessential Mississippi. One of my favorite stories of all time. My brother and I tried reading it out loud in our best southern drawls and we ended up laughing so hard we couldn't finish it. She captures Southern humor and the complexity of human relationsips like no other. And to think I used to see her shopping in the Jitney 14. Bless her soul.
Eudora Welty's focus on the American South and its society, characters, culture and language reminds me of - amongst others - Damon Runyon (Prohibition East Coast) and Saki (Edwardian England). However, her stories are often much more serious than theirs, but as perceptive in the portrayal of people in a particular physical and social landscape.Eudora Welty fokus in haar verhale op die Amerikaanse Suide en beeld die karakters, gemeenskap en kultuur ontroerend en meevoerend uit, onder meer deur die spesifieke vorm van Engels wat daar gepraat word.
Welty's "Why I Live at the P.O." is an English-language humor classic. It is also a fine example of why many claim that the best American fiction writing comes out of the South.Her style of writing is enviably effortless-seeming and her grasp of human relationships is notable, so the other stories are well worth reading. But if you have time in your life for only one, go with the tale repeated in the title. Anyone who ever tried to live within a family will find perhaps too much truth in this story.
Why I live at the P.O is absolutely hilarious. Women quarrels are something most families wish they could have the immense luxury to dispense of. The gossip full of lies, the meanness, and the insults. The lazy men scattered round the house and their attachments to stupid things that gives way for the quarrels to pick and snatch fresh meat from to start gnashing at. This is as close a portrayal of all that as you'll ever find.
This little story has one of those one-of-a-kind narrators...she and Ignatius Reilly would make good teammates for a caper.Anywho, it is a comedy, a domestic drama, a glimpse of the South...and, true to its title, it tells us why, indeed, she finds herself living at the little post office where she works. Recommended for everyone!
A sweet and salty Southern short story...Feels like you're watching from a front porch swing with a nice, sweaty glass of ice tea. I actually listened to a reading by Welty of this story, which was amazing to witness with her Mississippi manner - and I thought I talked fast!
One of my all-time favorite short stories, this is best if you can get a hold of the recording of Eudora reading it herself. She reads it with an unbeatable rhythm:a fast-paced,unceasing stream of southern drawl. Hilarious.
I've taken to listening to why i live at the p.o. when i lay down for bed at night. the rhythm of her prose is so good- reminds me of tony kushner. Just so funny and reminds me of growing up in the country with family all around. A wonderful piece.
I just do NOT connect with the writing style. Neither do I see the humor others ee. Finally, I never seem to like short stories.
Read 2015.
So funny. Loved it.
My favorite story ever!
WHY I LIVE AT THE POST OFFICE is a must read short story
I love anything by Eudora Welty!
