https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/773971.The_Fight
Anyone even remotely connected to the fight seems to descend on Kinshasha about a month in advance: the journalists who spend their time analyzing the matchup from every conceivable angle, its technical and psychological aspects, hanging on every word from the fighters and their trainers as hints to the potential outcome; infamously crazy people like Don King roaming the hotel hallways ("How he could talk...no verbal situation could be foreign to him...once you became accustomed to the stately seesaw of his rhetoric it gave nourishment to your ear the way a Cossack's horse in full stride would give drumbeats to the steppes"); and each fighter's managers, trainers, bodyguards, sparring partners, and miscellaneous hangers-on, occasionally getting acrimonious with each other in the lobby of the Inter-Continental, Foreman's manager's expression seeming to suggest, when asked about the fight, "nobody knows the evil you will see." Mailer's assignment struck me as being a lot of fun- get paid to live in a nice hotel for a month, write down observations, listen to Ali talk, and drink into the wee hours of the morning?
Ε, όταν ένας τέτοιος συγγραφέας γράφει βιβλίο για έναν από τους ιστορικότερους αγώνες πυγμαχίας όλων των εποχών, αυτόν ανάμεσα στον Μοχάμεντ Αλί και τον Τζορτζ Φόρμαν, που έγινε στις 30 Οκτωβρίου του 1974 στο στάδιο "20η Μαΐου" της Κινσάσα, πρωτεύουσας του (τότε) Ζαΐρ, δεν μπορεί παρά να είναι ιδιαίτερο, αξιοπρόσεχτο, οξυδερκές, δυναμικό, κατάλληλα δραματικό.
Περιγράφει τον Αλί και τον Φόρμαν, την όλη αδημονία για τον μεγάλο αγώνα, την δική του εμπειρία από την όλη δημοσιογραφική κάλυψη, παράλληλα όμως κάνει σχόλια για τους μαύρους, την Αμερική και την Αφρική.
Two dangerous men, larger than life in the way great boxers often are, meet in Africa to perform boxing.
Just as a boxer learns the magic geometry of intent vs.
pain, searching within it for their moments of opportunity, the writer learns how words contain a magic by which they may dissect time.
Mailer unwinds the (relatively) brief events of the ring into a cogent analysis of the complicated culture that fosters a professional boxer, how it is that they transform their bodies into manifest ideals of a combative art.
Mailer's aggressive, deeply masculine prose is perfectly suited to describing physical activity, so the chapters dealing with the actual boxing match are very nearly perfect: exciting, suspenseful, and just breathless enough.
Among the very best sports writing that I've read.On the other hand, Mailer's aggressive, deeply masculine prose causes problems when describing just about anything else.
Very similar themes are handled much more sensitively and lucidly (if at a fraction of the breathless excitement level, since it's about tennis and not boxing) by John McPhee in his superb "Levels of the Game." Boxing-as-metaphor was never done as well as in AJ Liebling's "Ahab and Nemesis." Read those instead.
Chapters 13-15, about the actual fight, are perhaps the best description of a live sporting event I've ever read, and worth five stars alone. The rest is somewhat discursive, but there is something inherently enjoyable about the very thought of Norman Mailer undertaking an early-morning jog with Muhammad Ali after eating a large meal, getting drunk and gambling all night long with George Plimpton. In fact, I think I've had dreams like this.
What an eye for detail, old Norman has, and what a facility with words to get it all down, from the rapid flurry of combination punches, to the feel of the African night.Here are a few bits:On two other fighters, "As boxers, Ellis and Liston had such different moves one could not pass a bowl of soup to the other without spilling it."On Foreman's marked stillness, "One did not allow violence to dissipate; one stored it.
exhilarating and damn near perfect. less about the fight (though very much about the fight) than about mailer's own crazy-making demons. builds to an absolutely thrilling climax and ends quietly and beautifully with an earned sense of peace. the first mailer book i've ever read where he really just nails an ending. great book.
By being the greatest writer of all time he makes reading a simple thing like a book about a very famous boxing match a more difficult read than it needs to be.
I'm not that smart Norman and I need an explanation!In all fairness, this book was by far and away one of the best boxing books I have ever read, even with all the tangents and the sometimes indecipherable prose and confusing story line.
So 3 1/2 stars is about as best as I can do.On a side note, I know the Rumble in the Jungle is not the greatest boxing match in history, that title belongs to Ali vs.
This was my first time reading Mailer, and I'd never really read something written with that kind of self-important style before, and I didn't even know what to expect going in.
There's something to be said for being able to persuade the reader toward the view of Foreman being the heavy favorite so long after the events have already been written in history.Mailer writing himself in the third person seemed perfectly fine to fit in with the African religious themes he describes, and it just gives a flavor to the book that I didn't expect going in.
20. yüzyılın en önemli spor olaylarından birinin öncesini ve sonrasını bütün edebi yeteneği ile çok güzel anlatmış Norman Mailer. Röportajın, spor karşılaşmalarını anlatmanın saf edebiyat olabileceğinin çok güzel bir örneği.
Today it seems unlikely, but in 1974 two sporting greats travelled from the United States to Africa, to battle it out in Kinshasa (then in Zaire, but today in the Democratic Republic of the Congo.) Challenger Muhammad Ali was to fight George Foreman, an unbeaten fighter, and apparently unbeatable.
And there was Norman Mailer, who reported on the fight and its build-up, and who published some of his reports in Playboy, then collected the pieces, and more besides, and published his account of those months in Zaire as The Fight in 1975.In the forty years since that slice of boxing history happened, the world has changed.
It's probably four stars, but since it gave me exactly what I wanted when I wanted it I have conferred an additional star in the hazy gaga I currently exhibit over this work.Second Confession: Previous to reading this book, I had never read Norman Mailer before.
For a reader of my age who did not experience a single Ali fight beyond YouTube, The Fight offers a peek into "just another day in the dramatic life of Muhammad Ali" which proves to be fascinating.
Like Ali himself, Mailer succeeds in transcending the genre of sports writing in this great read.

I havent read a Mailer novel in ages, despite the fact that he is one of my favorite writers.Mailer is pretty digressive - the book is not about the ALI-FOREMAN fight alone.
Mailer's description of the bout between Ali and Foreman is pulsating.
I saw the ending coming because Mailer uses foreshadowing to tell us who would win the fight.The book has an amazing cast of larger than life characters - MOHAMMED ALI, GEORGE FOREMAN, HUNTER S THOMPSON, GEORGE PLIMPTON, MOBUTU and DON KING.Well worth the read, for fans of boxing and sports writing.
Mailer tackles his subjects (although the focus is largely on Ali, Mailer's favorite to win) with a similar egocentric cloak that he wore with aplomb when writing Armies of the Night, a similarly wonderful analysis of the march on the Pentagon.I can say confidently that one need not be versed in the pugilistic arts to enjoy this book.
Yet Mailer's description of the match is so gripping that even though you know the outcome of the fight, the scene is rife with tension.It would be silly to assume that Mailer would write a simple reportage of the fight and be settled.
Phenomenal part journalism, part fable as Mailer gives us his version of the rumble in the jungle. His portrayal of Ali verges on the fauning, but it still has real insight.Mailer, a significant novelist of the late 20th Century, is really at his best in books like this and Fire on the Moon or Executioners Song. He has a knack of taking a linguistic scalpel to our world and exposing things that we either did not see or would rather not look at.
Il combattimento di Alì contro Foreman in quel di Kinshasa è probabilmente l'incontro pugilistico più famoso della storia. Mailer ne La sfida trasmette in pieno l'atmosfera del The Rumble in the Jungle, cogliendo efficacemente le implicazioni politiche e sociali di una sfida epica. Come ulteriore merito i capitoli sull'incontro vero e proprio sono praticamente perfetti: sembra quasi di stare a bordo ring. Uno dei migliori libri sportivi che mi sia capitato di leggere.
Such a great book. While Mailer at times is a bit verbose and self-involved, overall it's a fascinating, compelling, emotional story. Loved it. More non-fiction and I hardly read non-fiction. And HST makes a tiny cameo.
Eylül Sokak No:6'dan sonra bir diğer hayal kırıklığı oldu benim için.
Belki mükemmel bir kitap ama benim aradığım şey değilmiş.
Ancak aslında anlatılan tek bir dövüş, onda da Norman Mailer'ın ağzından ve hatta kendini 3.
Yine dövüşün kendisinden çok meydana geleceği yerin sosyolojik durumu, yazarın ruh hali, siyah ırkla ilgili düşünceleri vs.
Yani biyografiden de çok bir edebiyat eseri bu.
Sıkıcı ve okuması zor olanından.Gerçek dövüşün 13-15.
bölümlerde başladığını da düşünürsek alması kolay, okuması güç bir kitap oldu benim için.
Almak istediğim çok biyografi var ama elimde bir tek Ayakkabı Gurusu: NIKE'nin Yaratıcısının Yaşam Öyküsü kaldı.
An insightful and poetical account of the rumble in the jungle - fightlovers will particularly like Mailer’s description of the actual fight and Ali’s great tactics (in addition to loosening the rope). But what I loved about the book is the way it depicts a. the hope of the 70s about the African resurgence (still a hope nowadays) and b. how it shows that boxers in the 70s saw themselves as changing perception in society (how different from today). It is therefore more than a boxing book - it is also a sociological case study.
Muhammad Ali is a genius.He is a true champion. And he unique.He is THE professor of boxing. He is a Master in human psychology.Reading anything about The Greatest is worth the time, although this one went by relatively fast.It was a great read. Mr. Mailer had an interesting way of describing events.This book is recommended for any true sport enthusiast.
Okay, four stars, or maybe even 3.5, for the build-up to the fight. But the description of the fight itself. Amazing writing! 6 stars! Chills up and down the spine. What's great--among many great things--is that Mailer gives Foreman his due. Ali is the greatest champion, but not always a great man. The put-downs of Frazier and Foreman crossed the line many times . . . and yet. The courage, the will, the accomplishments. THE GREATEST.I watched the fight on YouTube after finishing the book. What a fight!
The longer, and obviously vainer review.Although I have never been extremely interested in boxing, I have always been intrigued by the Foreman versus Ali Fight for one sole reason: its location.
Moreover, I think the points he tries to get across, is that the Fight he was writing about was not only the one between Foreman and Ali. Apart from this fight, he was writing about three additional fights that were taking place simultaneously, albeit in different states of completion: Mobutu's, Ali’s Fight against ‘the system’, and the way boxing as a sport was perceived and performed.

Set in the country of Zaire (now known as the Democratic Republic of Congo), Norman Mailer turns the upcoming boxing match into a mystical dream – complete with little known religions (Mobutism), a dark and seamy country and two of the most famous and well-paid athletes in the world.The now infamous fight that occurred between Ali and Foreman is famous not only for its David and Goliath storyline, but also the way in which Ali won.
He was dressed in a matador's shirt when he stabbed his wife multiple times with a pen knife at a glittering party in NYC.
Mailer refers to Ali as a matador to Foreman's raging bull in just one of a number of references designed to parallel their characters (the funniest being his criticism of Ali's egotism when he refers to himself in the third person, as Norman does himself, annoyingly, throughout the whole book).
It's time consuming, laborous and verbose - in short everything he finds frustrating about Ali. When match day arrives Mailer comes out swinging with lucid prose, punchy sentences and an eye for detail.
Such is the task of separating noteworthy writing from the notoriety of a polarizing figure, a shadow-jester who draws a trail of rage-red memories at his very mention, who still elicits contempt from those who care about such quaint things as journalism that aspires to lasting value (because it is this rarefied group, with its range of opinion, that will have heard of Mailer at all, as the ranks of an older literate generation shrink—not excluding any present readers of this site, naturally).
Mailer was one of the greatest American writers of the Twentieth century—and also one of the most outspoken!—and this, his journalistic account of the boxing match in Zaire (now the Congo) for the Heavyweight Championship of the World between an aging Muhammad Ali (Cassius Clay) and the fearsome George Foreman, a fight dubbed, “The Rumble in the Jungle”, is his best book as far as I am concerned.
This is, without doubt, one of the greatest sports-book that I’ve ever read (along with King of the World -- also about Ali!)
Also, I have always heard that Mailer was one of those great solipsist writers, narcissitic and--to a degree--misogynistic, very muh like Updike and Roth can sometimes be, but, towards the end of my read, I watched an interview in which Mailer carried himself like a true ass, and it almost turned me off from the rest of the book.
It's unfortunate, but his behavior in the interview--an interview that also featured Gore Vidal--has stained his image for me; it was like finding out an actor is a complete asshole--Mel Gibson going on an anti-semtic rant--and no longer, because of the deplorable behavior, appreciating the performer the same way you used to.
On the basis of quality of writing, and sheer enjoyability (I have ZERO interest in pretty much any and all forms of organized sports, including boxing, and yet this totally sucked me in.
It loses points, however, for Mailer's weird and outdated attitudes towards race--his tendency to view race as somehow monolithic and lending itself to sweeping statements.
A certain self-awareness on Mailer's part about his own ego and biases keeps the book from being utterly irredeemable, but it's still a little awkward to read all the way in 2017.
