https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/22544764-uprooted
OH MY GOD A DRAGON. A TERRIBLE DRAGON WHO KIDNAPS A VILLAGE'S BEAUTIFUL YOUNG GIRLS. DO THEY GET EATEN?! DO THEY GET TORTURED?!!! WHAT IS THEIR TERRIBLE FATE?! “They forget how to live here...[they] remember to be afraid,” my father said. That was all. Then they took their dowry-silver and left. Mostly they would go to Kralia and go to the University. Often as not they married some city man, and otherwise they became scholars or shopkeepers.  Are you fucking kidding me?  *seethes*I swear to god
The main character is every bit of a Speshul Snowflake Mary Sue. The "Dragon" (so very disappointing) is an asshole of the Fever sort, the kind I deem Jericho-Fucking-Barrons, a term used to describe an asshole who is an asshole only for the sake of being an asshole.
He's oftentimes despicable, but there's a spark in him, a humanity in him that lets me love him and appreciate him no matter what despicable things that comes out of his mouth, because, under it all (and you seriously have to look deep), he is a human being with a good purpose, no matter how harsh his methods.Once again, I like assholes.
The fucking magic, man.It just highlights what a special freaking snowflake the main character is.
And not funny in a Terry Pratchett comedy/fantasy kind of way, but just funny because these characters are so real and charming.There are those well-drawn, vivid books that have great world-building, beautiful descriptions without being overly descriptive, and get lauded by critics.
Agnieszka and the Dragon are hilarious together - they operate with a kind of love/hate dynamic that makes for some really funny scenes and some heart-warming ones.What a magical, though strangely honest and thoughtful book.
Uprooted opens in a village where once every ten years, the Dragon (actually a man and wizard who rules over the land) comes and picks a seventeen year-old girl from the village and takes her to his palace.
except for the fact that they live near an evil Wood that occasional swallows trespassers, drives villagers mad, or sends monsters to destroy neighboring villages.
Oh, and also they are protected by a wizard called the Dragon who lives in a tower and does his best to keep the evil magic of the Wood at bay.
In return for his protection, the wizard takes one girl from the valley every ten years to serve him in the tower.
Instead, much to her surprise, Agnieszka is chosen to serve the Dragon, and that's when she discovered how dark and frightening the world really is.Novik does a great job twisting our expectations -- inverting the tropes about fairy tale villains and heroes.
I think this book was uprooted from Heaven’s grounds and magically brought to Earth.
Some of the characters in the book are sorcerers/witches and they cast spells to make magic.
ONE STAR to the non-existent chemistry  between the Dragon and Agnieszka.
I swear, verbal abusing Agnieszka is the only language the Dragon knows how to speak in.
Yes, he made her CRAWL back up to her own tower, exhausted.Why the fuck would you bother with the way she dressed up herself?
I got so baffled that Agnieszka would throw away her maidenhood over Sarkan whose behaviour do not even fucking improve afterwards.The fact that many gushed over The Dragon disturbed me.
This novel effortlessly conjured up the familiar magic of my childhood favorites — it was like reaching for a sweater and finding my old worn favorite pushed into my hands. I'm going to wear it gleefully for a week, no matter the weather. This concludes my garment simile. Possibly fuller comments to come closer to publication date.
When it comes to rating books like Uprooted, I keep wishing I could give more than 5 stars. Because honestly, 5 stars are not enough.Beautiful. That's the word I've been searching for. Uprooted is a  beautiful  book. Naomi Novik narrates the story of young Agnieszka, a constantly unkempt girl who to everyone's astonishment was chosen to live in the dreadful wizard's tower for 10 years as the price for his assistance against the evil Wood. Agnieszka imagined how desperate and empty her life was g
When it comes to rating books like Uprooted, I keep wishing I could give more than 5 stars.
Naomi Novik narrates the story of young Agnieszka, a constantly unkempt girl who to everyone's astonishment was chosen to live in the dreadful wizard's tower for 10 years as the price for his assistance against the evil Wood.
Agnieszka imagined how desperate and empty her life was going to be, locked away from her family and her dear friend with the Dragon as her only company.
A flawed, stubborn girl with a good heart and iron will, unable to hate even her worst enemies, a dedicated friend and daughter, and a different kind of hope.
Here goes: First Half- A lovely magical friendship- 4*In the beginning I had a real reason to carry on reading.
Instead it was over far too quickly as the recently acquainted characters were thrown into the action that became the second half.Second half- Then everything turned upside down- 2*The plot then took a weird direction.
I do like the idea behind this book, but there was no build up as the story expanded.
This book would have been far more effective had the friendship at the start been allowed more time to develop.
I wish I could give this a negative star as right now, this is literally the worst book I ever read in my entire life.
If you’re going to feel offended please don’t read my review, seriously stay away.Oh wait let me start with the positive parts first: the book cover and the writing is beautiful plus I don’t think I’ll ever find another book I despise more than this so that’s a yeay.
The first time they made an appearance, that's how they will be until the end except for Kasia.Seriously though, did ANYONE actually liked what the Dragon does in this book?
The villagers say nothing, do nothing, b/c the sorcerer protects them from the Wood.The villagers don't know what happens to the girls during their time in the tower, only that they come back changed.
Novik perfectly captures human nature, plucking you from the physical world, and dropping you next to Agnieszka, making you an observer from within, so much more than a girl in a chair reading a book in Tennessee:
It wasn't that I wanted a husband and a baby; I didn't, or rather, I only wanted them the way I wanted to live to a hundred someday, far off, never thinking about the particulars.
I need to create a new shelf and label it "all time favorites" and put like three books on there, of which, this would DEFINITELY be one.
This book is a lot like the The Wood that dominates this story, luring you close, whispering in your ear, offering you the most tantalizing temptations, if only you'll be persuaded into it.
The difference between the two is that where The Wood is a dark, twisted creation that speaks only lies, this book delivers on its promises.
If you're a fan of beautifully crafted stories, slow burn romances, hideous monstrosities that are somehow all too human, and good triumphing over evil, read it.
Completely different to A Court of Thorns and Roses and Cruel Beauty, Uprooted is more dark and gothic.
Unfortunately there is also a lot less kissing.
What kissing there is, is very lovely and, more importantly, Uprooted has a solid plot and is paced with ardent fervour.
Witty, strong, loving and heroic.
Cue Agnieszka quickly tearing down every expectation and wall he builds up between them and you have an odd couple taking on the most sinister forest you can think of.It’s brilliant.This is a mini review since I posted a guide to Beauty and the Beast retellings here.
I'm still goo-goo eyed at how beautiful and breathtaking the writing is; saying it is atmospheric and quirky and full of heart and soul doesn't even do it justice, but I'm not sure there are proper words in the english language to convey the feelings this book gave me.
But I didn't care: I didn't feel I owed him beauty."So, since I apparently can't do plot descriptions an justice, I shall discuss some of the reasons I loved this book.
Her banter with the Dragon brings some of the heavier portions a levity that is needed to keep the story from getting too dark, and I love how creative this fantasy world is that Novik has created.
Are you one of those readers who really gets fed up with series?It's like every corner you turn, every book you read, you find out it's a trilogy.
And unlike most readers, I refuse to reread so I trudge on to the next book most of the time not knowing what the heck is happening until my memories resurface or a friend (usually Brit) so kindly refreshes my mind.You may be asking yourself, why the heck is Melissa blabbering on about series and trilogies?Well, because this book made me appreciate them.
But at the same time, if it wasn't going to be written into a series, than this needed to be slimmed the heck down cause I just read 3 stories in one.
I'm going to tap dance around spoilers as I loathe and despise them, to instead point out that I loved the distinctive names of the characters, names that definitely gave them a flavor of our world but at the same time gave me that feeling that I'd just discovered a very old tale that was set outside the realm of the familiar tales I know by heart.This story was not afraid to have a bit of silliness in it, and the flashes of peculiar humor that we so often encounter in our own lives.
If you love fairy tale-ish books - and don't mind if things get bleak and violent for a while - and haven't read this book yet, I strongly recommend Uprooted!This fantasy is one part Polish folk tale, one part coming-of-age magical fantasy, and one part horror.
It's not for young readers (even though it has a 17 year old protagonist; I'd say 17 is about the youngest age I'd consider recommending this book to, and only if quite mature) or for those who can't stomach reading about creepy evil things or gruesome wartime violence.
This is one of my very favorite books of this year. It might even be my favorite. It's so beautiful and it has one of my very favorite tropes in it, but handled in such a careful way. This is actually intensely creepy so just be aware of that. Im just so blown away. I didn't want it to end!
From the opening paragraph this story grabs and hauls you off into the wonders of darkly wooded world and just as sincerely holds you captive.
Quite the contrary, I was far more fascinated and riveted by this not-miserable place and kindly people than in any other fantasy book I’ve read in decade.
Instead Novik's tale depicts good people struggling to win against evil.
Where it differs from traditional fantasy is in its honest depiction of the slippery nature of both good and evil, and how they aren’t always so easy to recognize, until it’s too late, and even then…
DNF at 241.I just can't bring myself to finish this book. The writing is beautiful, everyone seems to love it but I'm incredibly bored. There I said it.Also am I the only one that was disappointed with the Dragon? the magic system? how quickly she became stronger than the "most powerful wizard"?
I think we can all agree that the woods are fucking spooky.Or is it just me?Because every time my husband drags me off to a campground, I look like this:So. Yeah.
Already prejudiced against the Strangle-Trees (or whatever they're called) in this story.*shudder*Ok, from the blurb, you probably think that the story centers around a guy named Dragon (or a dragon named Guy?) and the girl he falls in love with...fairytale style.
If you're looking for a magic/fairytale/fantasy(ish) story that confirms all of your fears about going Into The Woods, then this is an excellent book to snag.["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>
I read this in 2015 and again in 2016 it is on sale today 23May17 on Amazon for $2.99 hereBuddy Re- Read with my fellow fantasy aficionados at  Buddies Books and Baubles   ❀ Our Dragon doesn’t eat the girls he takes, no matter what stories they tell outside our valley. We hear them sometimes, from travelers passing through. They talk as though we were doing human sacrifice, and he were a real dragon. Of course that’s not true: he may be a wizard and immortal, but he’s still a man, and our father
This is a true journey through the world and each discovery is more interesting than the last.While there were so many things I absolutely adored in this story one of the main ones was Agnieszka learning how to use her magic and in turn how she was able to blend her magic with the dragons.
Some of the most beautiful imagery in the book came out of them learning to work their completely different types of magic together to weave sometime even more beautiful, intricate and stronger than they could alone.
The relationship between Agnieszka and her best friend Kasia was absolute what a female friendship in a story should be.
This was boldly existent in this book between the dragon and Agnieszka.
When the sex scene occurred with Sarkan the dragon and Agnieszka, I'm not kidding, it's like it came out of nowhere.
It was unnecessary, creepy and I just felt like it was literally just thrown into the book, to try and make it sexy.
What surprised me is the fact that the dragon was seen as some kind of God. The author really disappointed me here, as an abusive person is in no WAY a lovable character.
I honestly enjoyed opening characterizations, all focused more upon the hopes and the realistic expectations when it came to the Dragon who may or may not be an evil nobel/wizard, and I enjoyed the bait and switch enough that I just got suckered into the rest of the story despite all the old resonances of plot and myth.Instead of being tired, though, I actually looked forward to learning the magic and discovering how all of it worked, or didn't work in her case, and I plainly enjoyed the dichotomy as it revealed itself.
Uber creepy wood that wants to KILL ALL THE THINGS??
I get that he's bitter and tired and old (although he looks like a young man which is, uber creepy, in my opinion) and is 1000% with stupid people.
But he forces her to dress how he likes (um, creepy?
I feel like so many fairy tales say "and hey, something creepy's going on over there!" but don't actually go ahead and be creepy.
I really wanted to like this one, peoples.
Like I said, I love everything about this book except for the reading part.
A wonderful folkloric fantasy by the author of the Temeraire series.
The characters are excellent, the descriptions of magic are brilliant and original, and the story is action-packed from start to finish, yet the author manages to fit in character development and to engage the reader's emotions as they follow Agnieszka's journey from ordinary village girl to wizard's assistant to ...
read it and find out.
The author has built the book's world on the Polish culture and folklore of her family background, and this gives Uprooted a depth and authenticity that enhances the story all through.
Very highly recommended.
I mean, it's not like anything happened during the first 31% of this book.
Most of the time this felt like I was reading Beauty and the Beast *shudders* And no, Novik throwing in a supposedly creepy forest (watch me quiver with fear) and some nearly-dead people who might (or might not) be nearly dead (wow, the suspense is killing me) doesn't change the fact that I don't remember what I was going to say.
Because I have nothing else to say because nothing happened because I was too bored to care because last night a forest description killed a book.
Did I just say I regretted not reading a sex scene in a not-YA YA book?
It had all the aspects I loved in a fantasy--a strong heroine, a unique plot, a creepy world--everything!Agnieszka (bless Goodreads for being there to help me remember names) is basically the heroine we've all been waiting for.
Plus Naomi's gorgeous writing made it even more vivid than it already was.Because we have a different heroine and a different world, we also have a different antagonist.
You'll be confused whether or not you want to root for her (it???) or not--that's how fabulous this aspect was.While this book focused a lot more on character development and world-building, we were given a slight romance...
this cover screams, "buy me, i'm beautiful" but the inside of this book made me want to return right back from where i got it.first of all, the fact that this Dragon or Sarkin guy isn't an actual dragon???
and their romance is deadass Unhealthy, my guy."The dirtiest thing in this tower is you," he said - true but unkind anyway.R O O D AS FUCK."'I do recall the girl neither horse-faced nor a slovenly mess.'"'Then you needn't keep me!' I flared, angry and wounded - horse-faced stung."wow.
if any guy said this to me, i would fuck him up.
Uprooted is one of my favourite books I’ve read this year and probably one of my favourite fantasy novels of all time.
The movies have this perfect balance of whimsical fairy tale, crazy imagination and creativity that makes you go “who on earth would ever think of that?”, paired with flawed, human characters that keep the story grounded.
The other major thing I loved about Uprooted was how much I’ve been waiting for a book like this.
This is great for people who aren’t used to reading a lot of adult fantasy novels.
When my mother told me stories about the spinning princess or the brave goose-girl or the river-maiden, in my head I imagined them all a little like Kasia; that was how I thought of her.” I loved the way Novik noted the tension their roles placed on their relationship while still allowing them to remain fast friends.
A five start book might have pushed that conclusion harder.Filled with richer detail than most fairy tales, it reminded me of when I read Beauty: A Retelling of the Story of Beauty and the Beast for the very first time (but you know what was better about the Beast than the Dragon?
