https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/174964.Life_of_Christ
For example, the story of Simon and the unnamed penitent woman described in Luke 7:36-50 is sometimes called ‘The Pardon of the Sinful Woman’ which (to me) overlooks the even greater sins of the Pharisaical Simon something the evangelist Luke has Jesus spell out for us—lest we miss any of them.
What I love most about the text is how Archbishop Fulton Sheen emphasizes the person-hood of Our LORD numerous times in throughout the narrative.
Sheen tells us that the power behind the word in Scripture is in The Word, i.e., The Word is a Person, Our LORD, Jesus Christ.
A phenomenally fabulous book so full of the Holy Spirit! Fulton Sheen at his best. I highly recommend!

I read this book every Lent, especially on Good Friday.It has also come in handy for Bible studies, due to the many scriptural cross-references.More importantly, the way Sheen wrote was the way he spoke - eloquently, direct, and witty. He will have you grinning one moment, followed up by smacking yourself in the head for not seeing what he just made seem blatantly obvious. You'll understand, but you'll also wonder more. Excellent for meditation and study.
Absolutely loved this book but saving my thoughts on it for the group I'm in. For those interested in this type of subject I would definitely recommend it.
This book took me about 6 months to get through, reading about 10-15 minutes a day.
Bishop Sheen writes clearly and presents our Lord in very understandable terms throughout the book.
I read this slowly to savor the beauty of Bishop Sheen's message, to drink in the life of our Lord.
This book presents an absolute treasure trove of discoveries and meditations on the gospels and the beauty of God's greatest gift to us all, our Lord Jesus Christ.
You will traverse the chapters and finish this book with the desire to grow closer to Christ.
What a gem of a book!
Brilliant. It will not make you a believer, but if you are and even if your belief is tepid, it will be made stronger. I always dismissed Sheen as someone for an older generation. I had no idea he could write so beautifully. The wonderful thing about Life of Christ is it can read through or referred to from time to time when something deeply spiritual is required. I'm looking forward now to reading his book on Mary.
The book lived up to its reputation. A book you will want to read if you are interested in following Christ and getting to know Him. A lot of depth and connections you might not have known about.Highly recommended.
A spiritual masters, masterpiece, this book unpacks the life of Jesus Christ and seamlessly teaches us both history, spirituality, and morality without it becoming preachy, a classic of the Modern Christian Library.
Although its title suggests a biography of Jesus Christ, it really is much more than that -- more a commentary by Bishop Sheen upon the life of Jesus Christ.
It is intellectual in style, but still readable, and is written in the clear, eloquent style of how I remember Archbishop Sheen's television show that I saw back when I was a child.
I highly recommend this book for anyone desiring to know more about the life of Jesus Christ and the significance and meaning of the events and miracles during His time upon this Earth.
A book that I have meant to read for years has now been completed by me.
I would find it remarkable if a better life of Christ has been written.Sheen remains entirely faithful to the scriptural texts while weaving in historical data and spiritual fruit.
I am sorely tempted to perpetually read this book, starting over the moment I have finished.
I noted many places of particular insight as I went.Sheen is an intellectual giant and a spiritual master.
Is there any question that such a work would be so profoundly insightful and moving?I have little doubt that this will be my favorite book read this year.
A truly wonderful read.
An in-depth look at the entire life of Jesus.
I actually got more out of this than I did Pope Benedict's Jesus of Nazareth - in fact, I think this should be read before Jesus of Nazareth because, while theologically deep, it's broken down in a way that is easier to comprehend (I'm still young in my Christian understanding).
I love how well it ties the prophesies of the old testament into the Messiah's coming.
For the first time in my studies I could relate and comprehend how the apostles thought - on a very human level that I never felt before.
This book is a very in depth take on the life of Christ (hence the title) that is filled with many things to ponder, reflect and pray on. This is my first read by Fulton Sheen but will not be my last! Very deep, but accessible at the same time. I'm sure I will return to this book in the future...
Having read the Gospels, many study notes, commentaries, histories of their times and beyond, I found a major need and desire to read them in a story type format for cohesiveness.
I searched long and hard and decided on this one.
Similar to each Gospel and some works that weren't included in the final Canon, they too are designed by intent to influence.
Not too preachy, still pushing a view, but a comprehensive, in sequence story combining all 4 Gospels, it is way better than just pushing thru the " Diatesseron" of old.
This book has everything you need to know about Jesus in an ordered and comprehensive format.
It pieces together his full life from birth to ascension, which can be difficult to grasp by reading the gospels, all telling a slight variation of the story.
The author, Fulton Sheen, gives background behind many of the events and words of Jesus which put things into context and gives more understanding.
Mr. Sheen had amazing insight into Jesus' life.
It’s well-written and enjoyable to read.
It will give you a deeper understanding of Jesus’ purpose and teachings.
It will draw you closer to God. It could save your life.
Bishop Sheen is a scholar, quite brilliant.
Loved his TV show, One Life to Live.
This book has been on my shelf for a long time, and its size discouraged me.
Nevertheless, I started reading.
Sometimes it was fascinating, sometimes the book lay unopened for months, and often, Sheen's tendency to include too many people, or too many ideas, or too many correlations from different moments in history would cause me to have to start the paragraph all over again to figure out the meaning.
I learned a lot, had many questions answered, underlined a lot.
Will I read it again?
I don't think any book has ever been written that can explain Christ better than Fulton Sheen does here.
Nothing makes more sense now in life than Christianity.
This book is like a brush that teases out all the tangled snarls of confused thoughts and doubts that any believer or nonbeliever may have.
You discover that any doubt whatsoever, any pessimistic thought, any struggle you've ever encountered with Christ's story, has all been addressed in the story of Christ's life.
This book will answer questions you didn't even know you had.
The front cover should have a warning label- BEWARE may cause extreme adoration and joy.
From the moment I cracked open Life of Christ was back in June for a book club my sisters has dragged me to, I knew that this book would be hard to resist because it was just full of everything; it was inspirational and eye opening when it came the fulfillment of the life of Christ and how everything was foreshadowed within the the Old Testament, to the way that Fulton J.
Sheen wrote and brought the whole story of Christ to life, to finally the connections that were brought into the light of day.For the rest of my thoughts on Fulton J.
Sheen's Life of Christ visit my blog.
This is the best book I've ever read on the life of Christ, mostly due to Sheen's poetic imagery and illustrations in almost every sentence. His lifetime of reflecting on the life of Jesus is written down.Chapter 3, "Three Short-Cuts from the Cross" is a great sample of the depth of insight and writing you would find in the rest of the book, delving into the temptation of Jesus.If you have Catholic-phobia, you may flinch here and there; but I'm a Protestant and I think it's better than Yancy, or Lucado, --though maybe a bit more intellectual.
Anyone that has watched Sheen when he was on TV or the numerous YouTube videos knows how relevant he makes the Bible. Every chapter is a sort of reflection that takes us on a journey to the times of Jesus and in addition to this traveling in time, it offers food-for-thought to modern Catholics (and even Protestants) in order to show us how to follow Jesus's teachings in today's world. This book perfectly reflects his personality and love of God and the amount of wit he has when explaining a topic that would otherwise be dry and tedious.
At first I was not sure to read this, since it is less than a year I read Jesus of Nazareth from Ratzinger. Gladly, I was guided to read this every morning during month and a half. It was a total delight! Bl. Fulton Sheen uses the word in such a poetic and strong way, that I had to stop several times to mark and re-read some parts. This is a must for any Christian. Catholics will find this a MUST.
Sheen has the reputation of being one of the greatest communicators of the 20th century and this book does not disappoint. I didn't know how he was going to make the little we know about the life of Jesus stretch out to the tune of 600+ pages but he did so easily. A very interesting and enjoyable read, I especially appreciated the insights afforded by 2000 years worth of Catholic tradition and perpective.
About a chapter a day for a few months. A great help for quiet time in prayer. His use of quotes from scripture really give weight to his writing.
I had been meaning to read the saintly Bishop Sheen for quite some time, and I finally got around to doing so and wow, what a sensational book to have read to begin my journey of Sheen!I am very proud to say that Sheen and I are both from the same diocese, that of Peoria, IL.
Bishop Sheen is explicitly clear throughout the entirety of the book, and does so in a way that is both full of beautiful explanation and at the same time, if I may say, concise.
Bishop Sheen explains the 4 gospels according to their time, place and culture and makes things so much clearer. Pages 116-128 were my favorite parts of the book.
Such an amazing book! If it’s on your TBR list move it higher! The Venerable Fulton Sheen is very heady, but so good. I get so much more after having read this book.
I know the content of the gospel stories like the back of my hand, but somehow in this book Fulton Sheen manages to uncover whole new threads of meaning behind them.
The book is effectively like a unified Gospel, drawing the events of each of the four gospels and creating a single chronology, with commentary throughout by one of the Church's foremost communicators of modern times.As with other writings by Fulton Sheen, it pays to take one's time reading it.
Sheen doesn't serve fast-food - his food is best savored and left marinating in your brain.
Sheen goes through the life of Christ chronologically, in very small bites, explaining the relevance of each of the events and teachings.
Aside from a couple of vignettes on the role of Mary, and the primacy of Peter, the book is, overall, "non-denominational" and sticks to generally agreed upon orthodoxy.
For anyone interested in understanding the life of Christ better, or even learning about how all of the gospel accounts mesh into a story of the life of the one who walked the earth in such a way that history and human culture is divided by his life, this is a great book.
I would recommend reading it in small bites, however.
I read this book back in 1978, and it is full of lessons of Christ as He taught the disciples the way in which they were to go.
I really read a lot of study Guides to understand the Letters to the Churches.
So this is one of many books that taught me not to look at the things and other religions of the world so much as to follow the life of Christ.
This is one of them, although I also studied different religions...and participated in them only to understand why they believed they way they do.
Very good book- it really puts Christ's purpose, what He is all about, into perspective.
The life of Christ is summed up by these two words: "the cross." My only complaints are that here, as in other things I've read by Fulton Sheen, he seems very repetitive in his writing.
And also his treatment of Saint Joseph seems glossed over too much and disagreed with things I read in "The Life and Glories of Saint Joseph" and not in the most flattering light.
But I suppose he's writing to a different purpose.
All in all though an excellent book!
