https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/542109.The_Order_of_the_Death_s_Head
A huge tome, pretty much unreadable.
For the uninitiated like me who thinks that the SS is but a single organisation of uniform people, this book will almost confuse you with the divisions and sub-divisions within the collective SS outfit.
("...it did not explain the source of power which enabled the SS to turn the racial fantasies of the National-Socialist regime into dreadful fact.) (pg 4).The author then spent the rest of the book trying to answer these two questions, which he did admirably.
And I always believe that the interest in understanding the Nazis is precisely because we know that we might be like them.More interestingly is how people deal with the issue of the SS after the war.
I’m not sure how many amateur historians actually trouble to read all 750+ pages of text, but many (like myself not so long ago) probably refer to it for the table of SS ranks converted to standard military (US and British) ranks and may occasionally use the glossary to look up some of the more obscure departments or offices of the Third Reich.I’m not sure that its value as a historical work is as great as its popularity would suggest.
Fascinatingly detailed account of Nazi Germany, focusing (as the title suggestions) on Heinrich Himmler and the SS.
In many ways the anti-William Shirer: Hohne shows the Third Reich as not a monolithic war machine but a disorganized regime with different factions at each other's throats.
On top of his detailed yet extremely readable narrative, Hohne provides unique interpretations of key events.
And Himmler dabbled in anti-Hitler conspiracies throughout the Second World War until the Stauffenberg plot, ironically, elevated him to Germany's second most powerful figure.
I'd have to reread, say, Shirer or Evans or Burleigh to test the validity of Hohne's theses, but it's certainly one of the best books on the subject I've encountered.
I read "The Order of the Death's Head" during my student days in the early 1980s. It really opened up my eyes to the various units and entities that made up the SS . In particular, the Allgemeine SS (the part of the SS that was responsible for the running of the concentration camps, among other things) and the Waffen SS (the militarized arm of the SS that had its own infantry and tank units and saw action on virtually all of the fighting fronts between 1939 and 1945, with the exception of North Africa).
Forget what you think you know about the SS, all of its history begins and ends here.This is a book that did not cause me to be enraged by what the SS were, so much as to calmly analyze its structure, its beginnings, its rationale for what it did, and how it proceeded to do this.
This book is quite possibly one of the most detailed reads I've ever experienced, well written and enjoyable.
Its on the same level of detail that Ian Kershaw's "The Nazi Dictatorship" was, but somehow manages to be much more enjoyable to actually read, which is quite an accomplishment unto itself.
This is a honkingly huge history of the SS packed with detail. Indeed, as it contains so much detail and follows for the most part a chronological approach, it pretty much serves as a history of the whole Third Reich through the prism of the SS.
After all the movies over all the years, you would think that the SS and it's various arms were a monolith. This book sets about displaying the inner workings of this organization, showing the various divisions to be private fiefdoms of their respective heads, all vying for ultimate control.
A most thorough and detailed account of the SS! Insights and understanding that make sense, instead of the "mob mentality" theories from other books on the subjects. Allows you to also draw you own conclusions. LONG - DRY - and exactly what a factual history book should be.
Incredibly complex, you cannot put it down, not because it is short of a interesting story line, but because if you do then it is impossible to find where you are do to its complex referencing system.
I enjoy dense books: War and Peace was light reading, and I got through Ulysses with some supplemental material.
I also enjoy World War II books: William Shirer's The Rise and Fall of the Third Reich: A History of Nazi Germany is my top pick for thorough, fascinating analysis of Nazi lore.This dense, World War II book got the best of me.
However, its excessive, droll attention to detail made it ultimately unreadable.
Events that should have been contentious and attention-grabbing were not.
By the time I got to foreign policy analysis I felt I was having as much fun as filling out paperwork for the government in question, and I gave up.
Riveting subject matter (5-star) but the book is either very poorly written (2-star) in a disjointed journalistic style or poorly translated or both. See what happens when an entire civilized country goes berserk and the wildest conspiracy theory you could ever come up with turns out to be true.What could be more interesting than Nazi death squads, storm troopers, death camps, medical experiments, entire Death's Head army divisions not even under the control of the military? How could they avoid creeping themselves out?So next time you say it can't happen here, host a tea party.
To my mind one of the best books ever written on the topic of the SS.It may appear to be a dense read for the casual reader but to anybody with a good interest in the Third Reich I think they will find it a very enjoyable and rewarding book.Published nearly 50 years ago and still stands up to some of the more recent SS histories.A must have for anybody interested in the nazi regime and this odious organisation
Excellent book, but for me the structure (thematic rather than chronological) made it somewhat confusing. Halfway through, I started to feel like I needed to draw a timeline to keep track of who was feuding with who/made which powerplay when.
Excellent author dedicated detailed research with a sure precision for detail and accuracy. Not sentimental brutally true to the historical imperative. We owe him and his colleagues a huge debt of gratitude.
Heinz Hohne's "The Order of the Death's Head" is a pretty dense read. That being said, it is impeccably researched, and offers what I consider the definitive look at one of the most macabre and fascinating groups ever created.
Holy shit, this is a ridiculously interesting and excruciatingly detailed history of the SS. Seriously, absorbing, but on a meticulously completist level I've rarely seen before or since. Excellent, but very serious reading at 600 pages, not for the faint of heart or easily distracted.
A very long book with some boring chapters about the inner rivalries within the SS and with the Nazi party and the Wehrmacht. The last two chapters were the most interesting - the SS and the Resistance and the End days of the SS and the Reich.
History of the SS. Höhne's explanation of the Night of the Long Knives is the best I've read.
I loved this book. Definitive account of the SS. Very detailed, perhaps too much for the casual reader.
informative, but hard to keep track of the names and dates
Very good and informative ; with lots of names ,dates and very specific information.
An excellent book on the history of the German SS. Fascinating and terrifying.
