https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/25994.Three_Daughters_of_Madame_Liang
Adoro a história da China, já pude ler alguns livros que retratam alguns dos piores eventos históricos da época de Mao Tsé-Tung, e este livro assenta na Revolução Cultural, já Mao tem o seu poder bastante consolidado e deificado por esta altura, e é das últimas campanhas político-ideológicas, se não me engano, levadas a cabo, uma vez que Mao vem a morrer anos depois.
The way she reveals the horror of how revolution infects the young and misleads their efforts (bringing about Communism) via STORY is the beauty of this book, and what I most want to mention.
In this day and age, where millenials are propagandized in colleges to despise capitalism and embrace socialism, this book is an all too real testament to what horrors and injustices can result.
Inexorably, the reality of Communism creeps ever more into their lives, casting its lethal shadow; Buck has no need to say, "Look how awful a totalitarian state is," because the reader has already seen and known it in the lives of Madame Liang and her daughters.
Many of Pearl Buck's stories happen in Imperial China (Peony, Imperial Woman, The Good Earth) while others happen in revolutionary China (Sons, A House Divided, Pavilion of Women), but this book is set in an era where Chairman Mao already rules China, and is set somewhere in the fifties.
Some details in this book are a bit sparse, but back then in the fifties, many people did not fully understand the ramifications of Chairman Mao's rule and would not until after he died, so the story is paced realistically, and the characters are all believable.
One of Pearl Buck's later books, this tells the story of Madame Liang and her three daughters against the backdrop of Mao Zedong's reign during the 1960s.
I also think that she did an excellent job of showing (not telling) each character's changing perspective on their experiences in communist China.
This book would be a great supplement to a historical study of 20th century China, but it would also fit in very well with a gender studies curriculum.
I'm imagining a course on "Misogyny and the Patriarchy of Communism." This is a book that makes me want to learn more and read more.
Tanpa ragu dia menitipkan anak-anak gadisnya pada pasutri Brandon utk diasuh dan dididik di Amerika tanpa mengharapkan mereka akan kembali.Tapi Madame Liang tidak bisa mengubah nasib.
Tak dinyana, Mercy dan suaminya, John Sung menyusul kemudian kembali ke negeri China.
Hingga situasi tak tertahankan lagi, Madame Liang harus memutuskan apakah dia akan pindah ke Amerika atau tetap tinggal di negerinya yg sudah rusak parah ini.Ceritanya tidak digambarkan setting pada tahun berapa, namun perkiraan saya sekitar thn 1957-1966.
Idealisme utopia China di mata kaum muda China pada masa itu bisa kita telaah dari pemikiran Liu Peng, Grace dan John Sung.
The story felt very realistic and enabled me to understand why first generation overseas Chinese wanted to return to China, despite the terrible state of things.
While she still loves China, she finds the current state of affairs simply unendurable and chooses to leave.
Joy chooses to remain in America to be with her Chinese artist husband, who wants nothing to do with China due to the repression of artists.
As for Madame Liang herself, she represents the older generation who has seen China through this tumultous period, and though she doesn't buty into communism, chooses to remain as China is her home.
Buck was the first author to transport me through space and time and immerse me in a different world.
As a ninth-grader reading The Good Earth, my life as a reader changed.
I became more interested in the wider world, more conscious of differing viewpoints, and I like to think, more compassionate.
This isn't Buck's best to my mind (I reread it to remember why I didn't love it the first time around) mostly because it seems a thinly veiled treatise disguised as a story of why Communism was appealing/inevitable in China and why China was still appealing to expats who returned to the Great Change.
So she has credibility with regard to her subject matter.Madame Liang was educated in Paris and was, at the time, a young revolutionary who supported Sun Yat-sen in the overthrow of the imperial throne.
Madame Liang, recognizing the dangers evolving from the revolution, sends her three daughters to live with American friends in the USA.
The counterpoint to Madam Liang's commentary on China, and being Chinese, is provided by her three "very Chinese" US educated daughters.
To fully appreciate this story, the reader should be able to recognize what is going on in the world during Madame Liang's time.
Madame Liang es entrañable (view spoiler)[ y su destino cruel, y por ser un personaje tan querido la lectura de su muerte resulta breve...
Las mujeres son distintas porque cada hija recibe su propia tajada de la China de Mao y responden de acuerdo a una formación académica (ciencia, música, pintura), edad, lazos afectivos, e intereses.
Aunque madame Liang destaca cada que aparece, las hijas logran ser personajes autónomos y no solo instrumentos narrativos.
Without unnecessary drama, in a style that is more reflective and clinical than emotional, Pearl Buck has illustrated the collapse of traditional values through the story of one family during Mao’s communist regime.
Through the fairly explicit musings of Madame Liang and her son-in-law John, Buck delves into an analysis of how human nature renders Mao’s ideals impossible in the long run.
Although the genre and style are completely different, it is interesting to read about how post-Maoist China in the 1990s is coming to terms with the surging wave of consumerism and the individual's desire for independence.)
She makes the culture, old ways, wisdom, knowledge, and beauty of Chinese people so real to me.
But the story is about how the Chinese characters explain and understand the turmoil.
It was incredible to weave SO many thoughts and opinions and stories of different Chinese people living different lives and how those lives are affected by age, circumstances, beliefs, etc.
Buck did a phenomenal job in bringing so many thoughts to the table in one story.
Sadly, not even Buck could really explain how educated people could go so astray in their 'revolutions.'
She spends a good deal of time waxing poetic over her coming child, and declaring, once a son is born, that she has "fulfilled her purpose in presenting a new citizen to her country." But then, once her husband is charged with individualism and sentenced to hard labor, we remove from the scene to visit Madame Liang and see her caring for the elderly, and return to Mercy after her character is completely inverted, even exchanged for her sister Grace's, in that she now chastises Grace for suddenly being understanding of why the Communists are doing what they are doing, angry with Grace that Grace supports the decision to punish Mercy's husband for individualism.Grace Liang was characterized from the beginning as someone scientific, determined not merely to be swayed by one person's tale on what is actually going on in China.
I didn't find the novel satisfying. Could it be the way the dialogues flow? They are preachy and the characters talk like they were reading a script. All the same, I can see how Buck has influenced many writers who wrote about China and Chinese women. A tragic end.
This is definitively one of her best books - it's tragic, moving and a real pageturner.Some of her best character depictions.
She sends her three daughters – Grace, Mercy and Joy to a much safer world – America.Grace, the eldest of them is summoned by the government to serve the nation.
We should have seized the throne to maintain it and make it at its best again, not to bring an end to it, so that for ten miserable years the people were in chaos, without rulers."P103- "We are a nation of peasants.
Emperors did the same in the old days when China was the center of the world-to us, at least!"Pg 206 "We cannot let down our hearts, not even for an hour, we people of the land, we old hundred names, " he said.
Three Daughters of Madame Liang is not among those lesser works, although neither is it among her best efforts.
It's a good, solid novel that covers the era in Communist China from just before the Great Leap Forward to the midst of the Cultural Revolution.
For it still defends China, its culture, and even Chinese hegemony over neighboring countries in Southeast Asia, Korea, and parts of Russia.
In large part, the solution to defeating ideological totalitarianism she alludes to throughout Three Daughters came to be applied in American foreign policy following Nixon's opening to China.
The subsequent era of free trade and cultural exchange that followed was something Buck advocated.
Il cambiamento che tanto viene propagandato, sappiamo tutti cosa nasconde, ma proprio Madame Liang, che in passato ha contribuito attivamente alla rivoluzione, dimostra di non volerlo accettare."Tutti gli orologi del paese segnavano la stessa ora, affinchè, come aveva decretato il Presidente, il paese e i suoi cittadini formassero un'unica entità, vivendo lo stesso tempo sotto le stesse condizioni">Le storie delle figlie di Madame Liang che, alla spicciolata, rientrano in patria per dare il loro contributo alla rinascita del paese, svelano gli orrori della "Rivoluzione Culturale".
"...di questi tempi non è importante essere un individuo.
Madame Liang has many regrets, but one of her biggest is helping to start the revolution that would culminate in The Great Leap Forward chaired by Mao. She is one of the protected ones because of her link with Mao's favorites.
She has a restaurant, nice food, and a house with creature comforts and, more importantly, beauty.
Not many people are allowed to keep an extravagant house or sufficient food for their needs.
She is glad her three daughters are in America, and not to be forced to be involved in Mao's new China.
Comparable, in writing, to "The Good Earth", although it takes place later, in the 1960's, in Communist China under Chairman Mao. Madame Liang's three daughters were sent to America, by her, years earlier, when things started getting bad.
One became a doctor, one a musician, and the other an artist.
The eldest daughter, the doctor, is recalled to China by the government, to use her knowledge to their advantage.
The middle daughter, the musician, voluntarily returns, with her husband, as she is expecting and wants her child to know its roots.
The youngest daughter remains in America.
Almost! It is not as old finished as one might have thought. The plot is very interesting, 3 Chinese sisters were brought up in the US and 2 of them go back to China. The aspect of the Communist regime is fascinating, The personnages are very interesting. The drawback is that there are long and boring excerpts on old China. One cannot but jump ahead. I remember living this author in my twenties so wanted to remember.
Potted history of Chinese communist history interwoven with the tale of Madame Liang and her 3 daughters. The story still has relevance today and for that reason is worth a quick read but as a novel it is weak with thinly drawn characters and stilted dialogue.
Beautiful book about lost innocence in China. A mother whose passion sets her family up for tragedy watches helplessly as their lives are consumed by the monstrous machine of State that she helped create.
There once was a lady who sangthe songs of change with a bang. As reality descended, tradition and reform blended,for the matriarch, Madame Liang
Read as condensed book many years ago. Have to try the unabridged version one of these days.
Esto nos demuestra que cuando los políticos no predican con el ejemplo es mejor no fiarse.
I wish that not so many things seemed a warning of how things can go.
The most political of Pearl Buck's books I've read. It tells the story of how Communism directly affects a Chinese woman and her three adult daughters.
I had so much trouble reading this book, had to put it down several times. Maybe its just not my genre.
Every time I sat down to read this book I found myself watching 547 episodes of Skin Wars instead...which could only either mean that Skin Wars is AMAZING or that this book is...not.
Overall a good book, fascinating perspective. But ending was abrupt and didn’t seem in keeping with rest of the story-disappointing.
