https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/140671.The_Black_Company
DNF @ 48%THIS BOOK WAS NOT MY CUP OF TEA.  "This book is utter pus" - a quote by Lady Luna hater of all things shit.  I'm actually really sad about this DNF, I wanted to love this book and before I even read it, I knew it was going to be a four or five star read because of the reviews on it & that blurb sounds goddamn amazing. I, However, can safely say I was wrong and that I absolutely loathed reading this. I'm sorry I truly tried, however I just didn't care about anything & the writing
I'm actually really sad about this DNF, I wanted to love this book and before I even read it, I knew it was going to be a four or five star read because of the reviews on it & that blurb sounds goddamn amazing.
I honestly feel this book is unworthy for a full review so I'm going to justify my opinion with a dot point presentation on why I hated it so much.
So to all my Goodreads buddies that love this book, I'm sorry you had to read this nasty review.
☠ Buddy reread with the clueless new mercenary recruits over at BB&B. Under the wicked supervision of our Ever-Stalking Black Company Overlord (ESBCO™), of course ☠➽  And the moral of this reread is :There is that, yes. Also, my boyfriend Croaker and my girlfriend Lady have been safely stashed away in my High Security Harem for a few decades years now and I think it's high time I discreetely kidnapped some of their fellow mercenaries to keep them company. They have me to keep them, um, enter
Also, my boyfriend Croaker and my girlfriend Lady have been safely stashed away in my High Security Harem for a few decades years now and I think it's high time I discreetely kidnapped some of their fellow mercenaries to keep them company.
If you belong to that scary lovely bunch of people, do not, I repeat, DO NOT, read this book.
And so very refreshing {insert happy sigh here}.Dear silly people who thought I would DNF the hell out of this book in less time that it takes to blink: this is one of the best, most engrossing books I have read in recent years.

There was a person, or a group of people who had to perform heroic deeds to save the world most of the time; Lord of the Rings firmly falls into this category.
The Company is a band of mercenaries with its people just doing their jobs of fighting and dying caught in the power struggle of demigods; at the end of the day even demigods need an army to finalize their conquests; compare it with modern military actions: no matter how many airstrikes you do with even the most modern bombs available only the ground troops ensure the area in question is secured.
Reviewed by: Rabid ReadsI went into the reading of THE BLACK COMPANY by Glen Cook nearly blind.
He's one of my favorite characters.BUT.Likable as he may be--as any of the Company may be--they are not the Good Guys.
This kind of thing is always unpleasant, but as I've mentioned before, I give a lot of it a pass when it happens in fantasy b/c realism.BUT.They do have their own version of a code, and unless it threatens the Company as a whole, they follow it to the best of their ability.Unfortunately, that code doesn't preclude working for the Bad Guys.
It is a “Company of villains held together by its now and its us-against-the world gone befores.” The Company becomes entangled in a war between the Lady aided by her Taken sorcerers (it is the one called Soulcatcher that enlists the mercenary band) and the Rebel forces of the White Rose.
Those of you who meet the Black Company after having read the Malazan Book of the Fallen, as well as those familiar with the Starks, Lannisters and Baratheons could be underwhelmed by this novel.
As far as plot, it mostly consists of a series of encounters for the Black Company, starting with getting out of their current contract and accepting employment from the Lady.
I don't mind this style of plot in my books, but not everyone may enjoy.The pacing of the story was uneven at best.
The forvalaka was fascinating as well, but language is odd--why did we go from a made-up word to "Taken?" I think the forvalaka was one of the only created words, which sits oddly with the language of the story.
After 75 pages, I've come to the conclusion that life is too short to waste reading bad books. Positive praise and reviews caused me to bring the book home against my best judgement. The first-person style, lack of character depth, stupid names, inane dialogue and juvenile prose have caused me to abandon the book in frustration. Good thing I read Mary Gentle's Ash: A Secret History before giving up on the military fantasy genre altogether.
It's about a group of people (with a particular set of skills :D) fighting for the employer of the day.
Turns out, things are not so much black and white as they are grey.The beginning of the book was a bit of 'WHAT IS GOING ON?' at first, but the confusion dissipates and makes way for 'just-one-more-page' pretty quickly as we follow the core of a group of mercenaries known as …The Black Company.
It even felt foul.Goblin rose with magnificent dignity, turned.
“No one will sing songs in our memory. We are the last of the Free Companies of Khatovar. Our traditions and memories live only in these Annals. We are our own mourners.” After only reading the first book in the three-part omnibus edition, I can already tell that Glen Cook is an exceptionally skilled storyteller, and that The Black Company is probably the best war story I have ever read.Series review from the beginningSeries review from the ending
Shoot me, because it seemed that The Black Company was written for me : ✘ Morally ambiguous Plain bad heroes whose only rules are brotherhood's related and who don't shy away from almost any deed (they draw the line at killing children, but everything else is implicitly accepted - I'll let you think about what resides into their candid brains, haha).
I personally consider antiheroes like the best surprises in Fantasy, because let's face it, this genre is so overcrowded with special snowflakes that we could spend days shivering in their vicinities.
Perhaps it's not the right time for me to read it, I don't freaking know, but I can't find in me to go on when there are so many great books waiting for me out there.
After leaving their present commission for a minor potentate in Beryl (a dead end that could have ended up with them all dead had they not found a way to ‘honorably’ terminate their employment), they take a commission with one of the twelve extremely scary Taken (a cabal of undead wizards who serve the Lady), an androgynous figure called Soulcatcher.
The problem is this job is going to take them into really nasty places, and cause some of the men of the Black Company to reevaluate their morals for serving their questionable employer, particularly Croaker.The writing style in this story appealed to me, with a brisk narrative that managed to convey exactly what I needed to know.
A military fantasy book from a Vietnam war veteran and the father of grimdark. The writing takes some getting used to in the beginning as you are thrown into the world with no idea whatsoever of what is happening and you have to figure it all out on your own while you continue reading. There is no hand-holding and at times I felt like I was watching a David Lynch movie all over again in the sense that I wondered WHAT THE FAKK IS GOING ON.  We abjure labels. We fight for money and an indefinable
Apart from that everyone in this book is devious, prevaricating, unpredictable, scheming people, just the degrees vary.The story is told from the point of view of Croaker, the company's physician and annalist, and during the lecture you get the feeling that you are actually reading someone's memories rather than an author's book in spite of the fact that this is fantasy.
Croaker is also a good choice as the narrator because he questions their course of actions and it adds further to the shades of grey which are part of what makes this book so good.
It becomes pretty clear that Croaker and a few of the officer type people are the best of the crew but even they are hardened men that sometimes do the right thing but more often than not they just do the thing they are being paid for.
She also has a team of people she has brought back from the dead to be in her service….Croaker has even romanticized her in a few of his writings the beautiful seductess.
There are fun times too as Croaker records the various Wizard battles between frenemies Goblin and One-Eye.There are some great raw unredeemed characters.
They're completely different, but the cynicism is definitely there in this mercenary band (I'm talking about The Black Company now) and it doesn't hold your hand as you're getting acquainted with the book.As a big Malazan fan, I'm also a huge fan of authors that let you struggle.
The limited viewpoint, following the first person account of Croaker (Crokus anyone?) who's both the company healer and historian, definitely holds back the worldbuilding, but I'm not complaining either.
It's not black and white, you don't even really know if The Black Company is fighting for the right side, but that's what makes it good.
I have officially given up.
DNF at 35%.
There's nothing wrong with this.
I'm sure it's me, not the book.
So it must mean I read it wrong, therefore I even created a new shelf just for this book.
I did give it my best effort, so let me pull out the Daniel Radcliffe gif while I'm at it:Original post:I'm late to the party, but starting this one.
Buddy read with the Buddies Books and Baubles group.
They read it like November 19th or something, but whatever.
Better late than never?Not quite, Blanche, but close enough.
It has been terrific seeing the diverse and differing reviews and reactions of my friends, both those who read it all the way through as well as those who stopped after the rough beginning.So, for me, this book was a challenge.
But, after making it into the second half of the book, the writing style smoothed out and we finally did start to learn what the point of the story was and more about the characters.
I can work my way through poor writing or even a bad storyline if I can feel invested in the overall emotion of the story, or if I can become emotionally attached to the characters.
3.25Bad guys being good guys, no wait Bad guys, no no good guys screwing over bad guys, no no that's not it. Bad guys doing bad stuff screwing bad guys? Well it is a little confusing, but I found it enjoyable. Sometimes it is pretty funny, but I like corny jokes. It isn't super brutal, but kind of weird magic.Also, I felt like it was one of those books I could set down and never read again, but while reading it I felt interested. The book wasn't gripping from beginning to end.
When I finished this book, I was even considering giving it 5 stars because the ending has such an effect on me. However, I can't ignore the fact that the writing style was hard to get into and I didn't really start enjoying the book before I reached the second half.
There were some funny dialogues I liked, I must admit and that helped me a little not to DNF this book soon as I did it the first time I read Black Company.
I had read a couple of books which had kids' torture (like Malazan), but again, it was vital to the story, everything was entwined and the way the author resolved it, well, I could skip the parts if I felt that it'll be too much for me.
This was supposed to be a huge BR with heaps of peeps, only the book turned out to be a monumental pile of shite.
Chapter #3 - This is where I'm giving up.
I've been told the the following instalments are much better than this one, but, honestly, I just don't have time nor energy to even try.
Also, I'm supposed to finish this bastard to actually go ahead with the story, thing is there are so many issues in the pages I've gone through, I just don't feel like that, I'd rather...
I don't even know.OK, let me express my feelings...
We are minions of the villains of the piece.
We confess the illusion and deny the substance.There are no self-proclaimed villains, only regiments of self-proclaimed saints.
The politics, the ethics, the moralities, are irrelevant.I loved this one.I didn't start out loving it, but on my second attempt at it with a group of friends, I found myself thoroughly hooked.It probably helps that I found out that Steven Erikson was largely influenced by Glen Cook's writing, so I went into it expecting that.
I have heard those are the voices of all the people whose souls Soulcatcher has caught.There are some great battles, but Cook doesn't paint a picture as much he creates fascinating characters that you can't help but love, fear, hate.
This book was frustrating, up til chapter 4, because I could tell Cook has talent, but it felt like he wasn't "tapped into it" just yet.
So I was really happy to see him "evolve" as an author about half way through this book.
What I really loved, and is the saving grace of this book, for me, are the characters and their interactions.
The writing could feel very disjointed at times.
Cook is the "father" of grimdark, but that doesn't mean he does it as good or better than anyone current.
The series combines elements of epic fantasy and dark fantasy as it follows an elite mercenary unit, The Black Company, through roughly forty years of its approximately four-hundred-year history.عنوان: سرگذشت گروهان سیاه، کتاب اول - گروهان سیاه؛ نویسنده: گلن کوک؛ مترجم: آیدا کشوری؛ تهران، نشر کتابسرای تندیس، 1393؛ در 397 ص؛ شابک: 9786001821332؛این مجموعه شرح چهل سال از تاریخ چهارصد ساله گروه نخبگان مزدور، گروهان سیاه، آخرین گروهان آزاد کاتوار است.
گلن کوک فانتزی و داستانهای نظامی را در تصویر واقع بینانه شخصیت و درگیری‌های رئیس گروهان مخلوط کرده است.
It is the gateway to a series that is consistently better with each novel, but this novel is so polarizing that you might never be able to appreciate the series for what a masterwork it is.First, the book is told from a first person perspective by an unreliable narrator in a vernacular that is less flowery than is common for fantasy works.
Reading this I was able to appreciate the bond more than ever, and I was forced to recognize the lack of it in every other novel I've ever read.
★★☆☆☆ The following is a courtroom transcript from the ongoing criminal investigation into the matter of The Goodreads Collective v. Wrongreader 2.0. Please note: This is merely a preliminary hearing to determine if there is sufficient evidence against the defendant to carry this matter to trial.JUDGE: Will the defendant please rise . . . Mr. Wrongreader, I see here you have been informed of your right to have counsel present, but have chosen to wave that right. Is that correct, sir? WRONGREADER
Is that also correct, sir?WRONGREADER 2.0: If it pleases the court, I'd be willing to cop to a lesser plea and throw myself at the mercy of the court, if you'll allow me a moment to state my case, and show that these charges are entirely unwarranted.JUDGE: I may consider that motion, if your argument is persuasive.
A story which finds the company duped into the employ of an immensely powerful evil, The Lady and her Taken, in a war with the rebels who’ve foolishly awoken her from her long slumber.
No matter how dark your history the “Black” in Black Company is Black enough to blot out all your past sins.Prerequisites: We prefer those who are experienced at “wet work.” If you have never killed anyone, we can provide on the job training but one must consider carefully before hand if you can undergo such training without developing severe emotional problems – actually any squeamishness at all would indicate you are possibly not a sociopath and may be unsuitable for recruitment.Pay, food, and sleep negotiable.
Really we don’t.Signed Croaker.“A Black conscience is a Clear conscience”Company CreedClassifieds.Having trouble with your people seeing things your way?
4-1/2 stars, and may get rounded up. I was afraid to read this book, because dark, bleak military fantasy? So not my thing. So even though Markus's updates really caught my imagination a year or so ago, I had this series on my mental "probably never going to read" list. Then all my friends in the Buddies Books and Baubles group started a buddy read, and I knew I would kick myself if I didn't join in. And I'm so glad I did.  No one will sing songs in our memory. We are the last of the Free Compan
Then all my friends in the Buddies Books and Baubles group started a buddy read, and I knew I would kick myself if I didn't join in.
The current Annalist is Croaker, the Company's physician, and it is through his eyes that this story unfolds as the Company joins itself in service to the Lady, a magician so powerful as to be nearly a goddess, and her court of Taken, wizards with whom she shares her powers.
Yes, the story is grim and dark, but I found it to be a good kind of grim, fitting the seriousness of what the Company does.
This is my first read of 2017 and a hell of a book, if I may say.Very interesting aproach to a new fantasy world, this time we have a Company of mercenaries serving the bad Sorceress in a hundred year war.If I may say this looked like a Sven Hassel book with a dark fantasy background.The story it`s very grimm, it has some tones of humor, but overall the thing are deadly serious and people get killed all the time so I understand why Eriksson has said that this fantasy serie has single handedly changed the face of fantasy.The Generals of the bad Sorceress have very sugestive and inspired names for their abilities, The Dreamcatcher, The Limper, Shapeshifter, SoulCatcher, The Howler, HangingMan, Dream Whisperer, StormBringer etc.
Aspecto: malo; sabor: delicioso.La Compañía Negra es ese postre, así que empezaré diciendo que no es un libro fácil y, sin embargo, tal aseveración podría resultar incierta en muchos casos, como veremos.Al buscar información sobre este libro, espoleado sobre todo porque el inicio se me hizo un poco cuesta arriba, encontré bastantes opiniones en torno al “discurso tremendamente fragmentado”, la “falta de descripciones y profundidad en los personajes” y, en general, respecto a una prosa un tanto extraña.Y es cierto: la manera en que Cook junta las palabras resulta chocante en un primer momento, deslavazada, llena de frases cortas sin verbo, opiniones crudas tal cual surgirían de la cabeza de los protagonistas; la acción está teniendo lugar en medio de una partida de cartas y a la siguiente línea están en otra ciudad a punto de entrar en combate.
