https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2161325.Sklepy_cynamonowe_Sanatorium_pod_Klepsydr_
For example, the boy tries to construct a conception of the world through study of his friend Rudolph’s stamp collection: Dark, ardent, full of festering love, I took in a parade of creation, marching land, shining processions that I saw in intervals through purple eclipses, deafened by the blows of the blood beating in my heart in time to this universal march of all nations.He wonders about the nobility and refinement of the mind of Franz Josef I, Emperor of Austria-Hungary, basks in the exotic colors of the flora and fauna in stamps from tropical paradises, and imagines intrigue behind the emperor’s brother Maximillian getting posted to Mexico by Bonaparte as royal governor and later execution by the revolutionaries.
DNF.
A family of four lived in a dark, shaded apartment with wallpaper yellowed from the excessive summer heat.
The dimly lit apartment, above their dressmaking business, was in a state of neglect.
The father's health deteriorated as he experienced loss of his mental faculties.
The metaphors, although excellent, were not enough to help maintain my interest level in continuing to read and fairly assess this tome.
It would be unfair to rate "Collected Stories" by Bruno Schulz, a book I did not finish.Thank you Northwestern University Press and Net Galley for the opportunity to read and review "Collected Stories".
In 1938, he was awarded the Polish Academy of Literature's prestigious Golden Laurel award.There are two things that make this collection great.
Her translations from Polish include The Woman from Hamburg and Other True Stories by Hanna Krall, Bread for the Departed by Bogdan Wojdowski, and four volumes of prose by Czesław Miłosz.
The proper use of translation, even if sometimes unwieldy in English or using words that are not in common use, like hill-lock hump, adds depth and accuracy to reading and concentrates the reader's effort and attention.Collected Stories offers the reader a look inside of Polish fiction of the modernist period.
Mirrors don’t merely reflect: they hint at the other worlds they contain.
Old men soar above the ground as if they are in a Chagall painting.The stories do not stop when the characters fall asleep, only to pick up again when they awake.
It is part of my existence to be the parasite of metaphors, so easily am I carried away by the first simile that comes along.
Having been carried away, I have to find my difficult way back, and slowly return to my senses.
Always with full use of his senses, Schulz may at times drop the similes, but never the metaphors.
Knowing that Schulz was ultimately shot dead by a Nazi in 1942 walking back to his forced home in the Drohobycz Ghetto with a loaf of bread, adds a further element of unreality, his untimely murder representing the absolute antithesis of what our world should be like.Schulz's words and imagery build and build in what feels like an unstoppable, tumbling wave, snatching everything in its path.
The book is hard going- Schulz's style is so dense, so layered, that the mind becomes lost in the constructed imagery and you find yourself reading the same section over and over again to see if you can discover the most significant meaning, often finding that each piece of information is offered as being equally as important as the last.
Everyone in this golden day wore that grimace of heat–as if the sun had forced his worshippers to wear identical masks of gold.
The old and the young, women and children, greeted each other with these masks, painted on their faces with thick gold paint; they smiled at each other's pagan faces–the barbaric smiles of Bacchus.” A collection of Polish writer and artist Bruno Schulz' complete surviving fiction (two volumes, for which he provided his own illustrations).
What we do have however, is something rather wonderful.Schulz' rich, lyrical, florid prose gives shape to a half-real, half-imagined childhood, imbued with a strong flavour of the fantastic and absurd.
Po przeczytaniu drugi raz, bez presji ze strony szkoły, uwielbiam Sklepy... jeszcze bardziej.
I became aware of Bruno Schultz while reading The Messiah of Stokholm by Cynthia Ozik and decided to read the works of this seemingly obscure author. Schultz's work contains some of the most beautiful prose I have ever read. I don't understand why this author is not more widely known. I read it slowly, savoring the language and enjoying the stories as told by this exceptional Jewish holocaust victim. Thank goodness for writers like Cynthia Ozik whose goal it is to expose great but little-known authors!
Querying his father's absence, the narrator asks his mother whether his father is now one of the cockroaches in the house, or perhaps instead the stuffed condor, the last remnant of his avian obsession, although his mother retorts: I already told you that father is travelling about the country as a travelling salesman.Or in the labyrinth corridors of the family home, rooms that disappear or come literally alive, and also the confusion of the city's streets (see the opening quotes) or houses:Having entered the wrong vestibule and the wrong stairwell, one usually wound up in a veritable labyrinth of unfamiliar apartments and passageways, unexpected exits into unfamiliar courtyards, and one forgot the original goal of the expedition, until, many days later, while returning on some grey dawn from the uncharted territories of strange, matted adventures, one remembered amid pangs of conscience one's family home.But to spoil the story, while Schulz was to translate Kafka into Polish, he apparently only read Kafka after he was sent a copy to review following the publication of The Cinnamon Shops.
Also fascinating is how Schulz stays with just one cast of characters (the avatar for his childhood self, the Mother character, the Father character, the saucy servant girl, Adela) through both story collections, revisiting again and again his childhood through fantastical metaphors, images, and dream-realities (besides the father's transformations, streets and seasons have their own personalities; an uncle turns into a bell; a crush on a schoolgirl is told through a strange lens of stampbooks and wax dummies, etc).So, I loved the obsessive focus on the domestic sphere, childhood, and family.
De relatief eenvormige wereld die wij menen te zien, kijkend door onze conventionele en niet erg fantasievolle bril, is alleen schijnwerkelijkheid, zoals alle werkelijkheid alleen maskerade is, en de stabiliteit ervan is een illusie: de grillige tegenwerelden van Schulz' ongeremd barokke fantasie pogen te ontkomen aan die illusie, wat dan weliswaar een "universele ontgoocheling van de werkelijkheid" oplevert maar vooral ook een veel rijkere, veel meer pluriforme, en veel vrijere manier van kijken naar en genieten van de wereld in en buiten ons hoofd.
Mocht iemand zeggen dat Bruno Schulz onder invloed van LSD, of een Poolse variant daarvan, schreef, dan zou me dat niet verbazen.
Voor sommigen is het de kindertijd, die Schulz op deze wijze weer tot leven brengt.
Mij voelt het toch eerder aan als geniale hallucinaties.
Een boek als dit lezen is een vorm van mentale stretching en, zeker voor een schrijver, geestverruimend.
Dat ik dit noodgedwongen in vertaling moet lezen is voor een tekst als deze een grote handicap, onvoldoende inzicht in de toenmalige tijdsgeest is er een andere.
Ik las deel één, De kaneelwinkels, dat destijds ook als een op zich staand volume verscheen.
"No momento em que minha atenção se afasta da ordem regular das linhas escritas e acompanha a complexidade movente que nenhuma frase pode conter ou exaurir, me sinto próximo de entender que, do outro lado das palavras, há algo que busca sair do silêncio, busca significar por intermédio da linguagem, como dando golpes no muro de uma prisão." Ítalo Calvino
See more of my book reviews on my blog, Literary FlitsIt's only half way through March, but I am pretty confident that Collected Stories by Bruno Schulz is going to be my book of the month!
Motifs from one tale spring up again and again to reinforce ideas and impressions.Bruno Schulz uses lots of words, writes beautifully dense prose and, to me at least, is all about atmosphere, description and character.
But the naive surburban bluebells and the modest little muslin flowers stood there helpless in their starched pink and white little shirts, with no understanding of the sunflower's great tragedy." (from Collected Stories by Bruno Schulz)
The writing style is not short and sweet and he places his structuring, at times long winded, which to the modern novelist reader, can seem a bit out of sync but if you open your mind and let it wash over you, I think you would be presently surprise.The work is a translation from the original Polish text and at times I often wonder how much of the writing is in the style of Schulz’s writing and how much of it has been flourished with English prose.
The colours then fell an octave lower; the parlour filled up with darkness as if plunged into the luminosity of the deep sea—still murkily reflected in mirrors of green—though all the scorching heat of the day was breathing on the blinds, which swayed gently to the reveries of the midday hour.- (The opening of Bruno Schulz’s story “August,” translated by John Curran Davis)These were the first lines I read of Bruno Schulz and I was hooked.
Perhaps a bit mischievously, Shulz has created archetypes for after the Fall, if there was no concept of "before the Fall" and only an overgrown, lurid garden after the fact.
Shulz does this with a brilliant command of language and so much love, that very quickly, you are trapped inside his microcosm and savoring every delirious breath you take of its humid air, which is the only air available there.
And you have developed as much tenderness towards his characters as he has - lamenting, laughing.
Sanatorium - 3.75 in which the plots are not as developed
Dit is een klein beetje valsspelen, want ik moest (gelukkig) maar een paar verhalen uit dit boek lezen, voor een les.
Bij sommige zinnen stond mijn hart stil van schoonheid.
Bij andere verhalen was het enige wat ik wou ermee stoppen, en werd ik gewoon zo, zo moe van de stijl.
De balans is bij mij negatief: als dit geen opgelegd werk was, had ik het zeker na één verhaal weggelegd.
Schulz is gewoon echt niet mijn smaak.
Maar misschien dat de les waarvoor ik dit gelezen hebt mij een nieuw perspectief kan bijbrengen.
Utter, incomprehensible beauty from a tragically ignored writer of great vision.I was introduced to Schultz through the equally exquisite theatrical adaptation of his life and works 'The Street of Crocodiles' by Theatre de Complicite, in London. It blew me away with it's virtuoso style and breathtaking visuals, but there is something far quiter, intimate and subsequently powerful about Schultz's original text.
Tussen het dwarrelen van mijn gedachten door, hebben Schulz' woorden en prachtige zinnen me kunnen verleiden. Met name 'de Kaneelwinkels' nodigt uit tot herlezen, waardoor het aantal sterren van deze recensie zeker nog kan oplopen.
Bruno Schulz and his version of magical realism older than Marquez is great. I love the wicked humour. Great.
The father is prone to deep fits of mania, involving birds, and mannequins.Schulz’ strange family is still the focal point in The Sanitorium Under the Hourglass and in the titular tale, a son visits his father at a remote sanatorium where time seems to move at its own accord and nothing is as it seems, neither with the elusive doctor nor his dying father.There is a profound sense of disquiet in Schulz’ universe and a Kafkaesque air over it that borders on sheer horror.
I can’t remember the last time I felt this moved by an authors work, the sense of loss and awe I get from reading this is unlike anything I’ve read before.

I've only read The Street of Crocodiles stories from this so far, but I was blown away by the imaginative scope of the writing.
It doesn't feel meaningless or purely whimsical to me either, but like another state of consciousness that is just as vital as cold clarity.
I can't get over the feeling that something is lost if we can't write or think with such imagination anymore.
It feels like a wholly original and dazzling image falls from every page of this book, though you do need to read it with a kind of meditative concentration to order to catch them.
Dit boek krijgt alleen maar heel goede recensies. Ik ben het daar niet helemaal mee eens. Schulz beschrijft goed het leven in een Midden-europese provinciestad aan het begin van de vorige eeuw. Maar naar mijn smaak dikt hij het allemaal net even te veel aan. Je wordt moe van het barokke proza. Er zijn wel heel mooie verhalen tussen, vooral waar het over zijn vader gaat. Geen idee waar de waarheid ophoudt en een soort magisch realisme begint. Verder doet hij me aan Kafka denken (hij laat b.v. zijn vader in eenkakkerlak en in een krab veranderen).
I must admit that I hadn't heard of his book or it's author until JSF published Tree of Codes last year. However, I was not a bit disappointed to discover that it was so lyrical, so poetic, and so beautiful as it is. Though the stories themselves are rather mundane and unspectacular, the writing (and drawings!) is so beautiful and flowing that you'll find yourself in love with every dramatic metaphor and hyperbolic description.
Finally gave up on this and returned it to the library today. While the writing style itself was quite nice, and one of the reasons I kept at it for as long as I did, I could never really get into the actual content of the stories.
Tylko "Sklepy cynamonowe"
Unbelievable. Totally perfect in that crazy Borges/Kafka way, but denser. Read it right now.
simply mesmerizing!
