https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/79941.Christianity_and_Culture
After sketching "The Idea of a Christian Society," in the first essay, Eliot moves on to lay out "Notes on the Definition of Culture," in his second, and longer essay.
Eliot lays out a number of ideas in this section, from the notion that culture should be thought of in three ways: individual, group, and society.
Eliot's fear is that without certain structures in society that culture will eventually disintegrate as people lose their connection to their individual and group cultures.
A must read
This is really two books in one--the first focuses on the Church and State relationship, the second on defining and discussing a Christian culture.
There is much good here, though I found his style made it difficult to follow the thread of his argument.
There are some good, challenging ideas here.
For example, he argues against the merits of a classless society, arguing instead that societies should be hierarchical with dynamic classes in tension with one another and people moving in and out of a class.This is a good book to understand the cultural changes of the last one hundred years.
Canonical.
Recommended by James Schall in Another Sort of Learning, Chapter 20, as one of Ten Books on the Humanities.Included in the "Literary Classics" section of Fr. John McCloskey's 100-book Catholic Lifetime Reading Plan.
He takes various shots at Conservatism and Liberalism, the latter of which he claims "destroys the traditional social habits of the people" and in doing so "prepare the way for that which is its own negation, the artificial, mechanical, or brutalised control which is a desperate remedy for chaos." He does not provide the illustration or system of reasoning for working this out, but the reader is probably able to do so for him or herself.Eliot goes on to divide his Christian society into four parts: a Christian community, Christian state, Community of Christians, and the Christian society as a whole.
Two books in one volume. A rare old rant, most unconvincing, although I did not finish it so may have missed the good parts.
His ideas are still valid.
This was an excellent part of the continuing conversation on culture and what it means to have a Christian culture. Truly a fascinating read by one of the world's great poets.
Both of these essays are pretty essential reading. In the first, Eliot considers the problem of trying to sustain a Christian society. He sees a lack of a religious establishment a major obstacle to creating and sustaining a Christian social imaginary, though he is not necessarily comfortable with taking any kind of repressive or discriminatory measures, either. Overall, a helpful challenge to think through what we really want when we desire a Christian society. The second essay on culture traces the close connection between religion and culture.
The church should be more confident in its critique of society - identifying where a culture fails to align with the principles Christianity - than in proposing the right way to proceed.
"It is more the business of the Church to say what is wrong, that is, what is inconsistent with Christian doctrine, than to propose particular schemes of improvement.
Culture, as a way of life, encompasses much more than we are conscious of.
He identifies a form of cultural imperialism: "America has tended to impose its way of life chiefly in the course of doing business and creating a taste for its commodities.
In addition, I had read a lot of hype about the book from conservative intellectuals who had found great meaning in Eliot's essays.
Eliot goes on and on about how culture has been defined too narrowly.
A fish could describe water narrowly, as the medium which keeps them afloat, or as the force they feel upon their fins as they adjust their orientation, or as the source of the oxygen they need to survive, but they still would miss a lot.
Eliot merely makes the claim that Dawson has proven that religion is the root of all culture and that Christianity is the root of Western Civilization.
Certainly some stuff worth reading in here. However, there was also large sections that were either un-noteworthy or completely entrenched in the political world of England in the mid-twentieth century.
En sus primeras páginas establece el tono general: «La idea de una Sociedad Cristiana es una que podemos aceptar o rechazar; pero si la aceptamos, debemos tratar al Cristianismo con mucho más respeto» de lo que hemos estado dispuestos a otorgarle.A partir de allí, el autor explica, con lucidez y perspicacia, a la cultura de nuestros días con especial énfasis en el asunto del Cristianismo y su tesis: la religión es esencial a la cultura; incluso «Un individuo puede no creer que la fe Cristiana es verdadera y, sin embargo, lo que dice, produce y hace, saldrá todo de su herencia de la cultura cristiana y dependerá de esa cultura para su significado».No, no es un libro religioso que pretende lograr conversos.
The first third or so of the book is a particularly insightful meditation upon the relationship between Christian faith and the cultures of those peoples which adopt it.
I happened to be reading Achebe's Things Fall Apart at nearly the same time I read this book, which granted a great deal of insight into the dealings of colonialist missionaries with the non-Christian peoples of Africa.
The defect of this book, as with nearly all of Eliot's prose and much of his poetry, is that he often comes off as rather snobbish, though, I will admit, I am, as an American, quite sensitive to such things.
I recommend this book for anyone interested in the relationship between faith and culture.
A slightly strange book containing two essays: The Idea of a Christian Society, and Notes towards the Definition of Culture.
The second essay, somewhat more substantial than the first, isn’t explicitly Christian, so the title’s a bit misleading.
Both are carefully reasoned, original and thought-provoking, with Notes presenting an extended meditation on culture and a meticulously developed definition (which is sometimes rather surprising).
It’s one of those uncommon books that made me consider something more carefully than I had, reflect critically on the author’s ideas, and end up with a fuller and more rationally and consciously developed idea than I had previously.
These essays, which read as being paranoid and stoic by turns, were published from a variety of times just before, during, and after World War Two, which makes a good deal of sense.
When the world looks a lot like it might be ending, I suppose that those are reasonable and even impressive reactions.
TS Eliot is a really smart guy, and if you're interested in hearing his views on the world OUTSIDE of the lens of his poetry, this is a good way to go (one could argue, I think, that most of what he has to say here is contained more impressively in The Waste Land).An interesting thought:"A Christian society only becomes acceptable after you have fairly examined the alternatives.
Reprints two small books Eliot published ten years apart.
“The Idea of a Christian Society” (two stars), published in 1939, really doesn’t make it to the table of serious discussion.
“Notes towards the Definition of Culture” (4 stars), published in 1948, certainly does.
Eliot considers creative, vital culture to be founded on various tensions that balance unity and diversity of social class, regionalism, and religion.
Still, Eliot would do well to tell us more about the content of Christianity and delve more deeply into why he thinks religion is essential for the construction of morality.
Unfortunately, I didn't get to finish this book before it had to be returned to the library, but I already desperately want a copy.
The book contains a series of three essays by Eliot on the necessity of a Christian government and what a Christian society would look like.
He pointedly does not address the form of a Christian government because he denies that one form is required.
I would encourage everyone who is studying government or culture or sociology to track down a copy of this book and move it to the top of your reading list.
Never can I recollect reading such elitist b.s. My opinion of Eliot significantly decreases the more I read of him past his mid-career. Each snide comment he makes about the necessity for social stratification, educational levels for the upper down to the lower classes, a Christian state -- controlling each nation of the globe, etcetera etcetera is given with the statement that these aren't "feelings" or mere "opinions"; no, they are "obvious facts," according to the later T. S. Eliot. Ugh. Religious snobbery doesn't get any worse than this
Pretty interesting, but unfocused.This book is actually two essays by the great modernist poet. I was drawn to the work because I have a somewhat modernist aesthetic sense but a firmly conventional view of morality. After discovering that Eliot was a staunch Christian conservative, I had to give some of his prose a try.The first essay is on the formation of a Christian society. The thesis of this piece was never very clear to me, but there are some very quotable lines along the way. The second essay is about culture, what it is and how to promote it.
This was a helpful and careful examination of society, culture, Christianity's relation to them, and the beginning of realistically building a healthy Christian society and culture."We may go further and ask whether what we call the culture, and what we call the religion, of a people are not different aspects of the same thing: the culture being, essentially, the incarnation (so to speak) of the religion of a people."
The first third of this book is outstanding and timeless. Such a great summary of what a Christian culture should strive to be and how Christians should interact with culture. This part is so exceptional that it overcomes the rest of the book, which is rooted in its time and is less Christian-focused.
This book contains two essays, one in which the author discusses the nature of society and culture, and one in which he discusses the content of a specifically Christian culture. The author has some interesting ideas, but they are very similar to those expressed by C.S. Lewis and G.K. Chesterton more cogently in other publications.
Although brilliantly written, I found the philosophy hard to stomach given how necessary Christian faith was to his world view at the point of this work. I find Augustine easier to sympathize with. And yet, this is the guy who wrote the Waste Land, a brilliant poet and accomplished essayist, and these are at their base levels very thoughtful, well-done essays.
Eliot's book almost seems prophetic. I admittedly had a hard time getting into the book, but there were many jewels. Yet, my own struggle with it was likely due to the fact that I was preoccupied with other research. If for no other reason, the last chapter on education is worth the purchase and read. I would suggest that all educators read this book, and especially that chapter.
Eliot's essays are a bit dense and long to read all in one sittings, however, I encourage this to be read in as few as possible. He is keenly insightful and writes as one who has clearly considered his subject from many angles; at each point he pauses to explore and bring closure to every side-avenue the reader may consider while following his argument.
Good European perspective on the relationship between church and culture, including how government and education play a role. T.S. Eliot clearly functions on a higher level than I do and the book was published in 1939, so there are some parts where I'm just like "huh?" Enjoyed for the most part, though.
None
Need to reread this some day.
