https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/41098.World_of_Wonders
World of Wonders retells the previous stories, filling in the missing material necessary to understand the comprehensive illusion that Davies has created.Is there a definable boundary between fictional, or for that matter everyday, illusion and the truth?
Creating truthful illusion therefore is a social, even a managerial, task of dense complexity.What is sought by an audience to illusion is wonder, the feeling that there is living mystery in the most mundane of things.
Berger's book, The Social Construction of Reality, touches precisely the same themes as Wonders of the World: the nature of reality, the feeling of truth, the desire for the 'beyond'.
The ‘problems’ of the memoir style itself (the inescapable desire to make oneself into the hero, the inability to really understand the motivations and actions of others from one's limited point of view, the unreliability of looking back onto the past from the vantage of the present) are perhaps brought even more to the fore in this volume than they were in the others as we sit back and listen to the harrowing tale of the life of the mysterious magus Magnus Eisengrim, né Paul Dempster.Magnus, along with our old friends Dunstan Ramsay and Leisl Vitzliputzli, is in the midst of starring in a film in which he is portraying the legendary conjurer Jean Eugène Robert-Houdin.
So bizarre. So perfect. So Canada.
Οι συμβολισμοί στο βιβλίο, οι μύθοι, τα επαναλαμβανόμενα μοτίβα που μας κάνουν να δίνουν ένα νόημα στο πανηγυράκι που αρχίζει και τελειώνει για όλους μας ακριβώς με τον ίδιο τρόπο, είναι ένα βασικό στοιχείο του βιβλίου, που δίνει κάτι το μαγικό στις ζωές των πρωταγωνιστών του.Βλέποντας κανείς τον βαθμό θα θεωρήσει πως είναι ένα βιβλίο αντίστοιχο των προηγούμενων, πως τίποτα δεν με προβλημάτισε, και τελικά έκλεισα τις σελίδες χαρούμενος και ικανοποιημένος.
Γιατί, θα αναρωτηθεί κανείς, μήπως δεν ήταν αντίστοιχα καλό με τα προηγούμενα; Τι μπορεί να πήγε στραβά με το τρίτο μέρος μιας τριλογίας, ενός εξαιρετικού συγγραφέα; Και αν στράβωσε, γιατί δεν αξιοποιώ την δύναμή μου ως βαθμολογητής, παρά αξιολογώ ανεπαρκώς, σα να έχω το πιστόλι στο κεφάλι; Τα πράματα δεν είναι αυτό που δείχνουν.
An amazing trilogy, all taken together. Ramsay was by far my favorite character and was glad to see him back in this last story.Also loved learning how Paul became an amazing magician. More of Liesel was in this book and I found her character fascinating. Of course the big question of who killed Boy Staunton is solved in this ending piece.Wonderfully well written this whole trilogy pinpointed the small minds that can live in a village, where everyone knows everything about each other. Judgments are formed and never changed. Yet, for some all points still lead to home.
Much as various characters entered and exited the lives of Dunstan Ramsay and David Staunton in the first two books, each one shaping the narrator in some way, we see the effects each character in Magnus' autobiography have on his own life.Yet I should not neglect the frame story.
We hear an interesting life story, but we also get a meditation on the art of autobiography.I think it's fair to compare the Deptford trilogy to the works of John Irving, in that both Davies and Irving tend to focus on recounting the lifetime of a single main character, subsuming plot to the character's own development.
World ofWonders completes Robertson Davies’ Deptford Trilogy, giving the reader a third window on the same period of time—after Dunstan Ramsey and David Staunton, now Magnus Eisengrim aka Paul Dempster. Although this book is nominally narrated by Ramsey, it is Eisengrim’s story that is highlighted, with Ramsey reporting [the recording angel?]—the trip from being Nobody to being very much Somebody.  This is very much a universal trip, that of being Nobody within our mothers’ wombs to becoming Som
World ofWonders completes Robertson Davies’ Deptford Trilogy, giving the reader a third window on the same period of time—after Dunstan Ramsey and David Staunton, now Magnus Eisengrim aka Paul Dempster.
This is very much a universal trip, that of being Nobody within our mothers’ wombs to becoming Somebody in wider world.
Davies’ time spent as an actor really shines through in this novel—he knows what will work with an audience and shows how Eisengrim/Dempster acquires this knowledge.
Although not as wonderful as the first book, Fifth Business, WoW is a delightful way to pull all the strings together and provide a sense of completion for the reader.
World of Wonders is the least captivating of the Deptford Trilogy, but the work as a whole -- starting with Fifth Business -- is certainly one of the best I've ever read.
The books examine the lives and thoughts of three men who are all linked to one another; Davies' structure and storytelling are extraordinarily polished and fine.I can't recommend anything more heartily than the Deptford Trilogy, but if you have any doubts about committing to the entire trilogy, I can say this this: Go pick up a copy of Fifth Business.
Rating should probably be 3 1/2 stars. Read this last volume of the trilogy before I've read the first two. Probably the wrong way to do it, but that's how it went. This volume was enjoyable enough that I'll read the others at some point.Edited review and rating: Once again, reading the novel in the order in which it was intended to be read made all the difference. Robertson Davies was the Dickens of the last half of the 20th century.
Who killed Boy Staunton? That's the question finally answered in this final installment of Davies' Deptford Trilogy. The first book "Fifth Business" is the best of the bunch and worth reading on its own. The second ,"The MAnticore" is a bit dull and this one is somewhat better. It's certainly an interesting bunch of characters but I am not sure it was worth reading the entire trilogy just to tie up the loose ends from the first book.
However, World of Wonders finally begins to take off as Dempster arrives in Europe and we are introduced to some interesting new characters with whom we can sympathizeDavies saves the last fifty pages of the trilogy to finally give us some tidbits into the life and personality of Liesl whom, for myself, was one of the most interesting characters in the entire series.
As to the question we are left with as Fifth Business comes to an end, "who killed Boy Staunton?", World of Wonders gives a conclusion with which we can be satisfied.My biggest disappointment with the trilogy is that we were never given a chance to see life from Mary Dempster's perspective.
Much as it pains me to say it about one of my favorite writers, this is not my favorite Davies book. Lots of people love this trilogy, but I prefer his later Cornish trilogy.To be fair: it's still a Robertson Davies book, so it's still beautifully written, and full of oddments of history and philosophy that can leave you breathless. I'm giving it three stars as judged against the very high standards of the Davies oeuvre, not against fiction in general.
Well, "Fifth Business" keeps its place as No. 1 in the Deptford Trilogy for me, but both of the other books, and World of Wonders especially, are almost encroaching on it. A pseudo-memoir, an extravaganza of unreliable narration, a panorama of carnie life in Canadian wilderness and of theater life in interbellum London, with a couple of twists and turns along the way. The trilogy is a must-read.
Gran obra para acabar su trilogía Deptford. Todo un descubrimiento este Robertson Davies. Empezad con su trilogía Deptford. Magnífica.
Davies has a knack for describing what are probably pretty run of the mill acts of brutality and viciousness as one imagines they would be described by their victims, a lot of the time using a 1st person narrative to his advantage, pulling the reader in.It's a long read though, and Davies's style of using incredibly descriptive writing at times in this instalment borders on rambling.
But, like I said before, the circuitous and at times overly descriptive style of the novel weighs it down.It's a great read for anyone interested in Canadiana, the performing arts, conjuring, or simply the Deptford trilogy's ever-present theme of the nature of incidences of myth and fact.
Through this telling, readers get another perspective on some events from the previous books - especially Fifth Business - but Magnus as a narrator (and a character) is very different from Ramsey and David Staunton.Ramsey is actually our main narrator, as in Fifth Business, and readers have access to his thoughts and feelings, but his narration is used sparingly, as the framework that bookends chapters where Magnus Eisengrim tells his own story, in a first-person account, to the assembled group.
This whole series questions how one can expect to get at the “truth” of a situation when different perspectives and life experiences color personal historical narratives.
The plot (that's to say Magnus', Roly's and Liesl's stories) is certainly very interesting.
Actually, the whole book looks like a theatrical play, where a secondary character who set quietly for a half of the performance suddenly gets up and turns out to be the protagonist's old enemy :) And that's impressive.The descriptions of the circus' inside world and the Canadian tour of Sir John's troupe are wonderful.
But for me, as a reader, the story is interesting, while the "philosophical-psychological-religious component" is either irrelevant or boring, or both.
Dree his weird...that's the summation of the 'epic' question to this fascinating Deptford trilogy: "Who killed Boy Staunton?" Like many reviewers, I found this third--and 'unfortunate' ending to this series (unfortunate in the sense I did not want it to end)--a bit more difficult to read as it is at times a rambling monologue of Magnus Eisengrim's point of view of his life.
It is a pity he seems to have been so neglected.
If you haven't, please read him and do yourself (and perhaps the world) a tremendous favour.
After the triumph that was Fifth Business and the wonderful sequel The Manticore, I wondered how the series would end and also how this book would stand against the previous impeccable books. While not as good as the first book, because few things are, this was still an amazing read. Paul Dempster's life is odd but enthralling and the story brings the events of Fifth Business full circle and closes the trilogy nicely.
This is the third book of "The Deptford Trilogy" <-----A masterpiece.Interesting message implies here ,that while one takes accountability for one's actions is imperative to understand that there must be a limitation on your guilt. "Who killed Boy Staunton ? " -"dree his weird "( his suffering) -What a perfectly and logically mystery resolved at the end . Bizarre,inspiring ,engaging read.Loved it!!!
This was my least favorite out of the Deptford Trilogy. It was still a good read, and it was interesting to learn what really happened to Boy Staunton, but something about Magnus Eisengrim just annoyed me!
I think I may have the entire Deptford Trilogy on the bookshelf upstairs. These are great books, well worth revisiting. So many books, so little time!
The weirdest and most fantastic of the Deptford Trilogy.
Read in the trilogy omnibus edition. Review here.
Amazing! World of Wonders completes the trilogy of the Deptford boys and brings the questions of their world to a close at last. I highly recommend this entire series, and I'm surprised it took me a decade to complete it myself!
Mind you, this is only based off my reading of his Deptford Trilogy (quick note: I am nearly certain that Davies based Deptford off a small Ontario town less than half an hour away from where I grew up), but Davies' writing is so good that I'm confident he rises above the rest of Canada's authors, and above many of America's top authors of the last century.Fortunately this book contains much more of Dunstan Ramsey (the protagonist to Fifth Business, as well as one of my personal favourite book characters) and Paul Dempster gets to be the protagonist.
A reread of the Deptford Trilogy by Robertson Davies to recreate a love affair with the books I had back in the 1980's. Oh, dear, oh, dear, I can't go home again, at least not to Deptford. No magic this time. I must have been smarter 30 years ago, although I would swear not. I got the Cornish trilogy and the Salterton trilogy, one of which I also read in the '80's, and they are sitting lumpishly on the counter waiting. Oh, dear, oh, dear.
I just finished this 3rd and final book in the trilogy. It sheds even more light on the original story begun in the first book and ties up all the missing pieces all the while entertaining the reader with the lives of carnival performers, actors in a touring group and a magician and a film crew. Very, very interesting and well written; not a book to rush through. Savor it and enjoy visiting a magical world.
Briallante colofón a la trilogía de Deptford, relata el desenlace vital de los personajes de "El quinto en discordia" y de la trama de los Staunton. Quizás sea menos sorprendente y ciertamente mucho más dura que las anteriores, pero también es un canto optimista a la vida. En conjunto, la trilogía es magnífica.
Beautiful clear prose, but although it is the longest of the three books, I think it has the least to say. They all seem old-fashioned for the seventies.
