https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/38720939-a-very-large-expanse-of-sea
I got my hands of an ARC of this back at BEA and I regret not reading it till now. This book was INCREDIBLE. It's definitely one of my favorite books to come out this year. It was eye opening and heart breaking and beautiful.
Y’all mind if I cry because if you’d told 16 year-old me that one day I’ll read a NYT best-selling book where a Muslim Hijabi teen gets her own coming of age story and her own big romance instead of being the token (stereotyped) minority character or some cultural prop used only to further the writer’s favorite white girl…it would have made a world of difference. So, what’s this book about? Shirin could scarcely remember what her life had been like, back before the events of 9/11 had made of it
Y’all mind if I cry because if you’d told 16 year-old me that one day I’ll read a NYT best-selling book where a Muslim Hijabi teen gets her own coming of age story and her own big romance instead of being the token (stereotyped) minority character or some cultural prop used only to further the writer’s favorite white girl…it would have made a world of difference.
It’s what makes it one of the realest and most relatable books that I’ve ever read—so many aspects of Shirin’s journey, as a Muslim and as a teen, could be so easily woven among my own.Speaking of which, I LOVE Shirin.The feel of her isolation, cold and sharp, spills onto paper.
This was fantastic.
One of the best contemporary books I've ever read, and hands-down the best YA on what it means to be a Muslim American post 9/11. Tahereh Mafi pulls no punches, spares no feelings and tells the absolute truth and it is beautiful, rare and heartbreaking. If there's one book you read this year, make it this one.
4.5*
4.5 Stars! Review to come.CW: islamophobia & xenophobia
I don't want this to look like I'm minimizing the actual events because clearly Shirin prevailing and asserting her worth in that situation was still such a powerful read, but I wish Ocean's conflict that drives the emotional climax of this book could have been designed to be less....
Whatever small writing or plot issues I have with it makes up in the fact that I haven’t read anything as important and eye-opening as this before.
Whatever small writing or plot issues I have with it makes up in the fact that I haven’t read anything as important and singularly eye-opening as this before.
I think this may be a good book for those who did not like the shatter me series and are willing to give Tahereh a second chance.🌟 Also the story is discussing very important subjects and I think it will be quite popular as THUG did.
Or at least, should not have been the focus of the story, the romance should have been used to move the plot forward instead of becoming sort of the plot.🌟 The Break-dancing part: I really love destorying the stereotype about Muslim Girls and that they can’t do (and actually be good) at anything they want to as Music and sports and writing ..etc.
I read for a number of different reasons. I read for relaxation, for entertainment, for escape. I read to be provoked into thought or action, I read to feel, and sometimes my funny bone or my tear ducts need a good workout. And sometimes, I read to learn.The ideal book is a combination of at least a few of these, which was one of the reasons I enjoyed Tahereh Mafi's newest novel,  A Very Large Expanse of Sea . I empathized with the characters and found the story emotional and appealing, but I al
. I empathized with the characters and found the story emotional and appealing, but I also learned a little more about what the world was like for a teenage Persian girl in the months after 9/11.Shirin is 16 years old.
It seems like any time they start to feel settled, her parents decide it's time to move again, ostensibly to find an even better life for Shirin and her older brother, Navid.
He actually wants to know about what it's like to be Persian, not because he thinks she's an oddity, but because he's actually interested.
If you know my reading tastes much, you’ll already know that I almost never pick up a contemporary novel unless it involves one of three things: diverse rep, a heartbreaking learning experience (for the reader or the characters), or a romance so sweet and lovable that I can’t help but get sucked in. It’s really rare that I find a book that has all three of those traits, yet here we are.  I didn’t understand how anyone could be so violently angry with me for something I hadn’t done, so much so th
On top of all of that, her parents move her and her brother Navid constantly, and where the story picks up, Shirin is yet again the new girl whose classmates won’t look past her scarf and skin color long enough to learn more about her: like the music she loves, or the immense value she places on her family and their Persian cooking, or her secret affinity for break dancing.
I honestly feel like I can’t possibly gush enough about A Very Large Expanse of Sea. It is one of my favorite reads of the year so far, and I know it’s the type of story I’ll go back to over and over again because it won’t get old.
A Very Large Expanse of Sea   by There Mafi broke me while simultaneously filling my mind, soul and heart with vast emotions all at the same time.This book deserves all the stars for the raw emotion it made me feel. Tahereh Mafi's voice was so honest - Shirin was funny, intelligent, clever and so angry. She was the perfect narrator. My heart bled for her. Shirin's pain was so real - I wanted to hug her fiercely. The story follows Shirin as her family moves to yet another new city. She deals wi
by There Mafi broke me while simultaneously filling my mind, soul and heart with vast emotions all at the same time.This book deserves all the stars for the raw emotion it made me feel.
Tahereh Mafi's voice was so honest - Shirin was funny, intelligent, clever and so angry.
Shirin's pain was so real - I wanted to hug her fiercely.
Tahereh wrote from her own personal experiences, creating a truly powerful and inspirational character in Shirin.
I truly loved watching her grow throughout the book.
He was the perfect complement to Shirin's fierceness.
I'd never name a book "a very large" anything.
4.5 stars rounding up to 5. This book was really intense, raw and honest. I really felt how personal of a story this was for the author to write, and am grateful that she is putting this book out into the world.
This was PHENOMENAL. I've always really enjoyed Tahereh's books but this being a contemporary really just stepped everything up for me. Fuck, I loved this SO MUCH. dsafsahdfkjsahfdPlease join us tomorrow (12/14) on Kassie's channel at 8pm PST as we discuss this amazing read. I hope to see you there!
My favorite read of the year so far. so raw, emotional, and hopeful
This book was EVERYTHING. I posted a mini review on my blog, you can check it out HERE!I thought I understood white privilege but this book.. THIS BOOK checked my ass real quick. I don’t even have words. Please just do yourself a favor and add it to your TBR immediately. Full review to come closer to release date!———————UMMM I REALLY NEED THIS YOU GUYS.#OwnVoicesForTheWinTahereh, darling, you are SLAYING 2018. What did we do to deserve you?
Aside from a few short bursts of insight on a Muslim girl suffering racists microaggressions a year after 9/11, A Very Large Expanse of Sea is your average, run-of-the-mill coming-of-age YA romance featuring a teenager who hates school, laments life, is awkward around boys, doesn't understand her feelings for the first guy who's kind to her, etc., etc., etc.
"You sound so sleepy." "Yeah," he said quietly.
I'm tired, but I feel so happy." "You do?" "Yeah," he whispered.
"You make me so happy." He took a deep breath.
"You're like a happy drug." I was smiling.
"You there?" "Yeah," I said.
"I'm here." "What are you thinking?""I'm thinking I wish you were here." "Yeah?" "Yeah," I said.
lolBusy with a remodeling project ...’And a girl needs sleep...BUT READ THIS BOOK ....It’s WONDERFUL WONDERFUL WONDERFUL!!!!’ I enjoyed both the Audiobook & ebook...
melted over the characters ....A part I laughed: ( yet - this still tells nothing about the entire story)....This snobby girl - a bitch in other words - had the nerve to tell our leading girl Shirin that ‘she’ was a disgrace to her heritage....that she didn’t even deserve to be wearing her hijab.
Shirin, looks at SNOBBY girl ...
Thanks, Larry...Drifting off to sleep from this deeply felt story!!!
i'm conflicted, im conflicted, im conflicted, im conflicted, im conflicted, im conflicted, im conflicted, im conflicted, im conflicted i got a lot to ??unpack?? but i dont know if i'm going to unpack it, so stay tuned, i guessRTC~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i'm sitting here reading this book and lowkey getting emotional bc there are comments and phrases that are just so natural to the main characters and I DIDNT THINK I WOULD EVER SEE THE DAY WHEN THIS WAS NORMAL IN A YA BOOK 😭😭😭😭😭
I don’t know why they do it, but I know they aren’t commenting the color of my skin, they are not assuming my culture or my religion.
And if it was a punch in the stomach for me, a girl who never has gone through what shirin has, I can’t imagine what a massive gigantic kick in the stomach was for all of you who not only understand her story, but are actually living what she is daily.I’m sorry.I’m grateful Tahereh decided to write this story.I’m happy she did it for each one of you who is going through all of this.
i'm emo and I WISH THERE WAS MORE
Sounds good but it's Tahereh Mafi so it is going to be fragile and melancholic for sure.
It’s one that I desperately want everyone to read, to learn from, and I’m so thankful Tahereh Mafi shared it with us.A Very Large Expanse of Sea has all the aspects of your average YA contemporary, but what makes it so unique, and important, is this: the insight on what is means to be a Muslim American living in a post 9/11 world.
There’s funny moments, and sweet moments, but also heartwrenching ones as it brings attention to the harsh reality of xenophobia in our society.One of my favorite aspects of this story is that Shirin, our main character and narrator, is very much a reflection of Tahereh Mafi herself (who is quite honestly one of my favorite people on this planet).
Actual Rating: 3.5Buddy Read with HamadThank you Harper Collins for providing me with a review copy in exchange for an honest review. “It gives the bullies all the power. It would mean they’d succeeded at making me feel like who I was and what I believed in was something to be ashamed of.” Tahereh Mafi has had a special place in my heart ever since the Shatter Me series. When I heard about this book coming out I was so over the moon. A story about the life of a Muslim girl a year after 9/11. I’m
I’ve been to only one country where people seemed racist towards me, and although it wasnt a nice feeling, it was nothing compared to what others have been through.I quite enjoyed the book.
Including the many times she moved schools and what her life was like with the fact that she wore the Hijab.
And she spent a lot of her school life alone.I loved the idea of the breakdancing!
Ocean was great and everything but I just wasn’t invested (I did like his name though) I spent a while thinking that the book was an actual autobiography.
I'm not coherent enough to tell y'all how good, funny and important this book is.
But holy shit, this is a book you need to buy.
*********“I always knew I had to write this book.
When I first started pursuing publication, I think I really wanted to establish myself as an author first, an author who could write anything.
I didn't want my identity to be tied to my struggle.
People of color are more than just our struggle, we also laugh, we also love, we also have complex, fulfilling lives.”i cannot wait to read this
This issue (Islamophobia) is the 1st time ever I read on YA contemporary book and it truly blew my mind!
It woven with so many emotions that I think everyone can feel related to, how people and society can be so judgmental and generalized everything based on personal opinion, I never experience this issue mostly because I live in very diverse country with majority of Muslim but I can totally portrayed this on my head.I love Tahereh Mafi’s writing style here , its just so easy to read and her romance building make me swoon!!!
One of the book that I think need to be read by everyone
wtf I'm actually crying here.
I wasn't even expecting to like it much, but I haven't legit felt this unintentionally moved by a book in months.I can't even believe how purely upset I feel about this story (in a good way).
wow I honestly don't know what's happening to me, I just feel so hurt right now.I kind of just want to cry and scream madly at the world.
Why do we hurt each other for no real reason?
I'll never understand why some people have to be so awful to others.RTC when the pain is less raw and real okay bye
“I was stuck in another small town, trapped in another universe populated by the kind of people who’d only ever seen faces like mine on their evening news, and I hated it.”  Placed in 2002, Shirin is a 16 year old Muslim girl dealing with the aftermath of 9/11 in America.
Because reading this, you know this has happened in real life, and even worse experiences.Mafi is an excellent romance writer, I love her romantic interests in her books.
This is a story and a romance I won't forget for a long time, and I hope people who read this book enjoy it and learn something about kindness from it.
an #ownvoices story about a hijab-wearing Muslim American teen after the events of 9/11?? it also features an interracial relationship and tackles bigotry and Islamophobia?? I'M SO READY FOR THIS.I LOVE MY MUM TAHEREH
this book is incredible. full review to come.
