https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/9758764-then-came-you
Excellent audio narration on this one, a lovely story of four women told by different voices which was necessary, I think.
Annie is a struggling young mother, she needs more financial stability with a growing young family.
She forms an instant bond with India, who is to be the mother, India is a woman whom Bettina cannot stand - she is the daughter of India's husband, one of the richest men in the country.
Bettina is determined to uncover whatever is lurking behind India's perceived shady history.
Highly recommended as an audio read, I was interested from the very beginning to end.
She has an ease with the written word that carries the reader along easily, and is descriptive and funny.But.Having a way with words doesn't make for a great book, any more than being a good actress makes a great movie.
I fear that JW is a one-note writer, the way Goldie Hawn (to carry on the actress metaphor) is a one-note actress.
but it was still a lousy book.The writing was clear and descriptive, but the multi-angle perspective just did not work.
the huge "revelations" about India's past were decidedly anticlimactic.
Stories about women and relationships and emotions just isn't my style.
It's not that I don't like those elements in the books I read, I just don't want them to be the be-all and end-all of the story.
However, Jennifer Weiner has been making waves lately by analyzing the number of stories and reviews the New York Times runs about women authors vs.
So, I thought I'd give one of her books a shot to see what her writing is like.When I checke Then Came You out of the library, I expected to spend my reading time rolling my eyes and groaning.
Ok, so here's my thing: As with every Jenifer Weiner book, this one is readable - if you're stuck on an airplane, you'll keep reading this and it will be a perfectly fine way to pass the time -- but also as with every Jennifer Weiner book, this one is full of people you will never, ever meet or be able to relate to, and that bumps the annoying factor up by like, ten.The basic idea is a good one: weave the stories of three women who come together to have baby -- the egg donor, the surrogate, and the intended mother.
I didn't like any of the women and found many aspects of the book unbelieveable and of course it was totally predictable.I was so looking forward to reading this book.
I thought she was supposed to be a woman who triumphed and perserved, who was determined and relentless in her pursuit to get things she wanted, like a rich husband and baby.
I liked how each chapter was told by one of the four women and how they were all connected, although we have two seconds to absorb that information before the book ends.
I was also able to escape reality while reading Then Came You...as much as a mother of a two year old can escape reality (during some of my reading my daughter made it her mission to get my attention by splashing me from her baby pool that my feet just happened to be resting in.)Then Came You tackles many important current issues, one of which is Egg donation and Surrogacy.
How will she feel once the baby is delivered and placed in its Mother's arms?
(Which is why I'd rather stop comparing it to Revenge.)Anyway, it was a fairly quick read that entertained me (more or less), had a few heartbreaking moments (yes, I know it succeeded in trying to manipulate me into feeling stuff, I didn't cry, though, so I win) but in the end, I might as well have watched a soap opera on TV, which would at least give me a few hunks to look at.
**Possible Spoiler: info was in the synopsis on the book I had, but apparently it is not on every copy**I told the book club girls I wanted something light and fun, and they gave it to me....sort of.
It was an easy read, and it kept my attention.
This doesn't happen until the very end of the book.
All of the characters were interesting enough, but we didn't get to know them as well as I would have liked.
I didn't like the Bettina character at all.
The ending was just a tad too easy.
It was what I asked for light easy reading
(Marcus does have two sons, but they do not play a prominent role in this story.) Bettina's only purpose appears to be a bitch with daddy issues.
Hrm....The three younger women in this story: Bettina, Jules and Annie are so bitter and so dislikable.
Author Jennifer Weiner spent the entire story feeding us the miserable (albeit somewhat entertaining) drama of these unhappy women and yet expects us to believe that the arrival of sweet little baby Rory brings them all together in some pro-female, screw-you-nuclear-family happiness.
Even though all these women really want for themselves and their parents is a nuclear family.
Um livro que fala sobre a vida de três mulheres que passam por momentos difíceis e que um bebé une-as a todas e traz mudanças para as suas vidas.
i'm not so sure i will be reading jennifer weiner again in the future.this book got really convoluted really fast, but a quick plot summary: a self-made PR guru marries a really rich dude.
the book even acknowledges that the egg donation company never should have given the baby's guardian any info about the donor, but they did, basically because prissy stepdaughter was all, "i never asked for this baby, but now that i have her, i want to know whose eggs she came from!" yeah, that's not really the way it works.
The narrator (one of four) would be going about her daily life and suddenly, she'd be flashing back to her senior year of high school, or her dad's DUI when she was 14, or her mom running away to an ashram with her yogi, and then blah blah back to the present.
By the time (view spoiler)[two of the character's dads died half way through (hide spoiler)], I just didn't care.
I didn't care about the completely underdeveloped characters and this continued to the end, when I started skipping entire paragraphs so I could finish faster.
Ugh. I have go to re-read Good in Bed before I end up hating Jennifer Weiner completely.Not happy with you this time around.
I haven’t read Weiner’s other novels but I watched and loved In Her Shoes with Cameron Diaz, based on one of Weiner’s novels, and I though anything she writes should be good.
It was okay, a professionally written and edited book, and I read it to the end, but it started slowly, was emotionally distant, kept me faintly bored until the mid-way point, and the ending was disappointing.
And I stopped believing the story.
Maybe Weiner’s other books are better, but I’m not inclined to try another one yet.
I found this book rather flat, with a lot of cookie cutter characters. The book is told from a number of perspectives, but none of the voices really come to life. The whole thing really felt contrived, as if the author said "Surrogacy and egg donations - I bet a story about that would sell!" and then wrote down every cliche about it she could think of.
Para mim este livro foi uma estreia com esta autora e acho que não podia ter tido uma estreia melhor.Um livro que nos retrata um tema bastante atual, o das barrigas de aluguer e gravidez de substituição contado na voz de três mulheres diferentes.Gostei muito da sua leitura e recomendo.
To call Jennifer Weiner's latest novel "Then Came You" a beach read is only partially accurate.
Yes, it is one of those books that women love to take along to the beach for an easy read, but this one will surprise you - it is much better written than that classification.
She develops a relationship with Annie when she is carrying her husband's child.To this mix, add the back stories of each character, their individual family dynamics and one unforeseen glitch to the plan that has huge repercussions for all the women.
Such a satisfying read, easy to lose yourself in the lives of these women.
Didn't know I liked chic lit *shrug* Running down a list of JW titles, oOoh there's that, that and that...
shall just have to read them all :)Favourite Lines:P40"Shit," I said, and shut my eyes.
"Shit, shit, shit, shit, shit.""Oh, babe," said Marcus.P44If he kissed you, you'd know you were kissing a man, not one of these pampered, facialed metrosexuals who could tie scarves better than a Frenchwoman and talk knowledgeably about moisturizers.P48He's a fish.
P166"You got a man?" he persisted."None of your business.""Taking that as a no," he said cheerfully...P172Change is the only constant.
I think this might have been my favorite of Jennifer Weiner's books to date - and that says a lot since Good In Bed has topped my list since it was published!This book was both complex and relatable and the characters were more real than any of her previous books.
Weiner consistently writes imperfect, yet still likable, characters which makes her work more interesting.
From that perspective, there are many reasons both for and against, but somehow Weiner managed to write the story without obvious bias.
I was pondering what kinds of books men read that women don't, in the effort to come up with a less derogatory term than Chick-Lit for this book.
Nick suggested that the corollary is spy or adventure fiction, in which men are faced with dangers, intrigue, and beautiful women.
So call it Gossip Fiction, or Domestic Fantasy, or Paparazzi Stories.
There was a lot that could have been done with this book, but it failed to satisfy me.The concept was brilliant---4 total strangers who become intertwined over a IVF baby.
It has a lot of discussion topics for reading groups about serious topics for today's woman.
COmpared to Ms. Weiner;s other books, this one felt as if rushed writing it because the story wasn't developed enough for me.
I would recommend this for reading groups because of the discussion topics the book contains as well as the potential the book contained that wasn't developed.I wouldn't recommend this book for a pleasurable read.
But it wasn't great.My biggest complaint is that there wasn't a good way to tell how much time had passed in the story.
Other than the epilogue, which had a year attached to it, I have no idea how much time passed in the story, and certainly not from one chapter to the next.
In fact, things that were mentioned in one chapter would not have happened yet in the next chapter, though to be fair, the chapters rotated in perspective of each of the 4 main characters.
Some of the characters didn't ring true to me, even after learning all of the backstory.
Really, the story doesnt begin until 60% of the way through the book, and even then it falls flat - the twist is unexpected, but it seems she had to have a quick, tidy ending to keep the book short enough.
It just fell flat for me - too slow, too tidy of an ending, and not enough interaction of the characters to really understand how each person's individual decision affected the other, and ultimately, how those decisions affected the newly formed and unexpected relationships that had to be forged.
I thought I'd be a Weiner fan for a long time, but have started to lose interest in the past few books, maybe growing out of her writing, maybe a declining quality in the books - which ever.
Not only did I hate this book, but I hated myself for slogging through every single superficial, poorly written, contrived page.
There's an audience for this kind of book and the other ratings seem to reflect that, so I guess I'm just in the minority here.
I now know that I'm done with Weiner and won't subject myself to another one of these.
Jennifer Weiner keeps getting better and better. A very complex story about issues that haven't been tackled often in mainstream women's fiction. I loved all the stories of the women in this book. It's not often that I cry over a book, bur I did this one. I simultaneously didn't want it to end AND wanted to know what was going to happen.
"It wasn't until I'd dropped off the rental car and was flying back to NY that I figured out what else I wanted; my father's safety, his happiness, an assurance that he would not get his heart broken again." Bettina, an average-looking woman, a billionaire's daughter, she loves her father so much she thinks that India, her new stepmother is not what she appears to be that underneath her heels, and fancy jeans and Chanel jacket is a gold digger and cold-hearted wench.
I have already lost two of my favorite persons in my life and I cannot even begin to imagine losing any of my loved ones now.India Bishop is by far my favourite character in the story.
Li o outro livro da autora e devo dizer que este é muito melhor. A história de mulheres e da maternidade vista de uma forma completamente diferente! Adorei!
Jules Strauss goes to Princeton University.
A man tells her about a opportunity where she can make a lot of money.
The money would help pay for him to go to rehab.
Annie Barrow is a mother of two boys and a wife.
Annie wants to help with the finances.
That is why she signed up to be a surrogate mother.India is married to weathly Marcus Croft.
She is a good mother and wife.
The other person that I connected with in tbe beginning was Jules.
She still wanted to beleive that her father could be cured.
Then Came You is the story of 4 women, brought together by the circumstance of infertility.
Multiple 1st-person POVs make it difficult to keep up with whose head you're in and that's a little pet peeve of mine.
I enjoyed the progression of a child through all of their lives, and how neatly it comes together.
Affluent woman-child in her 20's who hates her new stepmother?
Then Came You is told well; Weiner is good at what she does: investing you in her characters.
Then Came You was thoughtful, it was unique, it was (a little) heart-wrenching.
I wanted to love one of her books again but was afraid I would be disappointed.
Written like a Jodi Picoult novel with different narrative voices or points of view, Then Came You tells the story of four women, with little in common, who become hopeless entangled with each other through a surprising common bond: a child.
With infertility and science at the core of this novel, Then Came You is surprisingly emotional.
How each of the four women come together to play a role in the life of this child is both beautiful and heartbreaking.Weiner crafted a very well-written story.
I shared a listen (with Amanda) of the audiobook version of this novel on a recent drive-intensive vacation.
It was well-suited to a drive, not least because each of the four first-person narrators was played by a different actor, and their distinct voices helped to eliminate the "where was I?" confusion that can be a part of the audiobook experience.
The build-up in tension was steady, the events unexpected - but the climax was sort of ...
