https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/19346451-the-revenge-of-seven
please dont kill nineplease dont kill nineplease dont kill nineplease dont kill nineplease dont kill nine please dont kill nine please dont kill nine please dont kill nine  PLEASE DONT KILL NINESo update i read the book and (view spoiler)[ he didnt die ahah (hide spoiler)]i have no idea how this review got 300+ like i honestly dont know ahah anyways i should talk more about the book but im not really in the mood to do it ahah all i can say that i liked it, a couple of things were a little obviou

This of course makes it much more urgent that the rest of the Garde get her back immediately.* And again related to the above three: (here my brain's pretty much bouncing ideas off itself at this point) Ella will be the one who causes whatever major death happens in this book, and the sixth book will be the Garde's mission to get her back and fix her.
Then book seven (I'm hearing there may well be one now!) will be the one where they finally defeat Setrakus Ra and return to Lorien!Now if you'll excuse me, I'm gonna go hunting for a time machine.
WHAT? WHAT???? THIS WAS SUPPOSED TO BE THE LAST BOOK! This CAN'T be the ending!
YEAH!YEAH!YEAH!YEAH!YEAH!YEAH!YEAH!YEAH!GIVE ME TIME TO PROCESS THE TITLE:   THE REVENGE OF SEVEN
I was prepared to face the death of at least two major characters in this book considering I thought it was the last book and I figured Malcolm Goode would die and maybe Adam and I could live with Malcolm dying and I'd be sad over Adam but I was hoping that Sam or Sarah would die and it seems I was not blessed by Lorien.I am seriously hoping that at the end of the last book the fallen Garde return.
“People tend to change when they find out aliens are real.”  The actual title should be  'The Lament of Seven' I felt this book was dragged. Plus, I had high hopes for the story that it would be wrapped up in the end, but truly it didn't. I was kinda let down by that. What happens in this book is nothing new, except the last part about (view spoiler)[Six and Seven discover the power in the Sanctuary. (hide spoiler)] I was in awe and thought that this would be really fun in the next book.For the
What happens in this book is nothing new, except the last part about (view spoiler)[Six and Seven discover the power in the Sanctuary.
(hide spoiler)] I was in awe and thought that this would be really fun in the next book.For the most part, this book's like ...John Smith and his friends run.John Smith and his friends fight back.John Smith and his friends try to stop Mogs' invasion.John Smith's nearly killed but he's saved by his fellows.Fortunately, this book still has humour and it prevented me from getting bored.
The Revenge of Seven also loses the potential that keeps me excited every time when I pick this series up.
The Fall of Five ending was unacceptable.So all I'am saying is that.Please ..
I almost not read it.
I thought it was the last book of the series.
I want to read it on weekend so that I can take my time reading it.
But… I really love this series and started reading it and finished it at the same day.
It was riveting and I just forgot about everything around me and focused on reading the book.
What happened?
I didn’t get my chores done and got hungry.
I won’t change a thing.
I WANT BOOK 6!
Tell me it going to be early next year!!!
*MC’s Co
But… I really love this series and started reading it and finished it at the same day.
It was riveting and I just forgot about everything around me and focused on reading the book.
I WANT BOOK 6!
It’s every reader’s must-have.I can’t wait to have the next one!
I WANT IT NOW!•	We are going to find out who Setrákus Ra really is.
And we are going to find out how he became the leader of the Mogs.
It just that by the end of the book the picture expands and waiting to be discovered.•	Five is going to have a change of heart.
One does not simply kill the dog/Chimera.Things I want to happenFive dies, and Seven kills him.
Adam and four will kick some Mog ass.Sam and six will make out some where.Setrakus Ra will die, and everyone will dance around his dead body(and Five's)2/24/14It has a name.
it's offical seven is going to get her revenge on five (hoping I'm not wrong)2/27/14 I wonder which Lorien(alive) Adam will fall for.
Because I'm hoping it's seven, since they both lost the ones they love and they can fix there broken hearts together.
Then Kick some ass.9-26-14Finished this in two days.
I officially love Adam!
And it covers the interesting symbol.UPDATESo....everyone think Sarah's gonna do something in this book?Face it, her character's been tossed around for quite a while.
(And who thinks that Nine's gonna try to confront Setkarus Ra again?)(And who thinks that Seven's gonna try to destroy every Mog(expect Adam) for her vengeance?)(And who thinks ANOTHER character's gonna die?)EDIT/UPDATE TITLE REVEALED!!!!It's called 'The Revenge of Seven'.Oooh, I think I can already guess the plot direction now.(Theory: Seven gets revenge.
I'm not kidding either.)Title Theory: "The Reign of Ten".....or something like that.Here we go.BEFORE THE BOOK(Predictions/Theories/Hopes/Etc/Whatever)Character ChartFour.
'Did I just do that?'" !S!P!O!I!L!E!R!SRevenge of Seven started exactly where it ended in Fall of Five and the story develops quickly from there without further recaps of what had happened which would've been boring.
The Mogs are no doubt 10 steps ahead of the Garde, with their super technology, I wonder why they don't just shoot and destroy Earth instead of finishing off six kids with supernatural abilities.Lorien Legacies is one of those series where reading the novellas is an essential part of the overall reading experience.
the whole book is based on Marina and she didn't even get her own POV, like what.even if I am currently still writing reviews, I don't have the brain power to muster up one.
I'm just saying, if you're looking at this, and you haven't started I Am Number Four yet or continued with the series, what are you even doing with your life.pre reading: Dear Pittacus Lore, please release the book sooner, like about now?
Yup that sounds right :3 You see, if my hands are not on it very soon, I may have a very big mental breakdown.
I honestly do not want to read this series anymore.
I am sure a fast reader could probably finish the book in a day.
He is making hard decisions which a couple of books ago would have sent him whining about how life is so unfair.The story; the grades are once again divided into two teams in the last book the team was betrayed and ambushed in Florida, and 9's penthouse was ambushed leaving one member captured, John, Sarah, Sam, Malcolm, and Adam on the run.
There are some back up and stories running alongside this book in the lost files.
Those are childish and petty insults that, in no way, tell me anything about why you think the book was good, only that you are too lazy to come up with a real reason for why I am wrong.
Don't teens deserve to read books that are well written, tell a good story, and about well developed characters?
Just because it was meant for a target audience half my age does not mean that it should be able to skate by with terrible writing, plot holes by the dozens, eye-rolling dialog, horrible one-dimensional characters, and mindless action.
The story didn't just end like that, did it???
it ends???
I didn't even see which part of the story gives the book a reason to have that title.
:,( Also, I couldn't help but be bothered about why Ella (the youngest of the Garde) is the most eloquent of all three narrators (John and Six are the other two.) It felt like reading the story from a Cepan when the narrator is a 12 year old girl.
Basically, the above mentioned are my only problems about the book because do I still have to say what's obvious???
Of course, I enjoyed the book!!!
El mejor libro de la saga hasta ahora, no hubo escena mala, acción página tras página, mas descubrimientos sobre Lorien y Mogadore.Y lo que viene parece que será épico, la invasión es inminente! Reseña Completa: http://bastvilard.blogspot.com/2015/0...
This book is definitely one hell of a roller coaster!
It is non stop right from page one and only ramps up the farther along into it you get and I absolutely loved it!
There's some pretty sad and shocking moments in this book and they hit pretty hard!
I won't mention specifics because I don't want to spoil it but a few scenes definitely tore my heart into pieces!
And in this book in particular there's a lot of set up for the final two books in the series and it has me absolutely dying to know how it's all going to play out!
What I want to happen in The Revenge Of Seven is:Five diesSarah realizes she doesn't like four anymore and falls for Sam insteadJohn is broken hearted but then six confesses to John how much she loves him and vise versa then they kissJohn and six both develop an AWESOME legacy like bringing back the dead and they bring back 1,2,3,8, the 10 elders his father and mother ect. Have and awesome battleCan't wait till August!!!!!
someone please let me know if you invent a time machine?So, things I want to happen in this book:- Adam POV, people.
And please, please, please don't let the vision actually happen...- Marina being a badass.
If you do check this out: http://lorienlegaciescountdown.tumblr...It's a blog that's been made by some fans and in the months leading up to the release of TRoS, there's going to be loads of fan art and fan fics and contests and basically all round awesome shizz going on in this fandom.
Don't kill Nine.Don't kill Nine.  Don't kill Nine.   Don't kill Nine.    DON'T KILL NINE.
Το συγκεκριμένο βιβλίο μου φάνηκε αρχικά λίγο αργό. Στο πρώτο μέρος του δεν γίνεται σχεδόν τίποτα, ενώ βρίσκω τις συζητήσεις των ηρώων λίγο βαρετές. Πιστεύω όμως ότι σιγά σιγά πήρε τα πάνω του σαν βιβλίο. Ειδικά το τέλος μου άρεσε πολύ. Ειλικρινά δεν περίμενα αυτή την εξέλιξη, όταν ξεκίνησα το βιβλίο σκεφτόμουν ότι αυτή η σειρά κάπου με έχει κουράσει. Τώρα, μετά από αυτό το τέλος δεν γίνεται να μην διαβάσω και το επόμενο! 3.5/5 αστεράκια
"It means," Marina says, wiping her face and standing up straight, "that we aren't alone anymore.""The author, I think, had many genius ideas in this book.
And this also brings me to my final This Author Made This Book The Best In The Series Idea:5: HUMANS GET LEGACIES.
(Okay, someone out there probably doesn't.) I've been cheering for Sam and Sarah since Book 1, watching them hold their own when they don't have the superpowered advantages their friends do.
I do think that Sarah is going to have Legacies, though I'm not as sure.
I hope none of them die.
I know they might need him to save Lorien, but if the others can get Fives chest from the Mogs, then they can TOTALLY kill him!
Come on Pittacus Lore!Nine please don't die.
YOU CANNOT DIE!!!!!!!
So, I still absolutely hate five, but this idea came to my brain: what if he's been tricking the Mogs into thinking that he was on their side?
In the excerpt (which I found at the back of Fives Betrayal) Ella was in space!!!
I think seven might possibly kill five, but he is needed for the survival of Lorien.
Then they can kill him.
To the author , From a reader who cant seem to get over eight's death Don't kill seven Don't kill nine Don't kill six Don't kill Sam Don't kill Adam Don't kill sam's dad Don't kill Sarah Don't kill Ella *Shoving five foreword*Here have him kill him
Stupid Five. Fall of Five. Death of Five. This fifth book will be painful and get progressively more deathly. Seriously, don't kill Nine....noooo!
3.5/5 StarsThis is the lowest rating book for the Lorien Legacies series I have done. Which is a real shame because I really do love this series. I did like this book and enjoyed reading it, specially the last fifty pages but I didn’t love it like the other books. Hopefully I won’t feel as disappointed in the next book.
This one ended with a pretty good twist. As the series continues more is revealed but I am still waiting for more answers to some of things. I really do love this series a lot and can't wait to read the last two books very, very soon!
And as an Mogordian invasion is imminent throughout the entire book (well this is the penliumate book in the series) and when shit goes down...
And also towards the end of the book, we finally learn what the elders were up to this entire time and how they planned to save the Earth from a Mogordian invasion (involves the leagacies...
This book has everything you ever wanted in the series and the book is full of crazy plot twists, humor, romance and the climax is freaking amazing, crazy and awesome all wrapped in a burrito.
This book is the essential summer read and hell my favorite book of the year so far.
If I could give it more than 5 stars, I would. SUCH A CLIFFHANGER! *flips everything*But yeah, it was my favorite book in the series. SO INTENSE!You'll get more revelations every single chapter. After reading the last page of the book, I was like, "WAIT WHAT?! THAT'S IT?"Seriosuly, tho. Why end the book like that?! WHY, PITTACUS LORE? WHY?!Well, yeah. That's me shaking Pittacus Lore. LOL.AND I HATE THE FACT THAT I HAVE TO WAIT A YEAR FOR THE 6TH BOOK! *UGLY SOBBING*I think, I'm going to have a
If I could give it more than 5 stars, I would.
SUCH A CLIFFHANGER! *flips everything*But yeah, it was my favorite book in the series. SO INTENSE!You'll get more revelations every single chapter. After reading the last page of the book, I was like, "WAIT WHAT?! THAT'S IT?"Seriosuly, tho. Why end the book like that?! WHY, PITTACUS LORE? WHY?!Well, yeah. That's me shaking Pittacus Lore. LOL.AND I HATE THE FACT THAT I HAVE TO WAIT A YEAR FOR THE 6TH BOOK! *UGLY SOBBING*I think, I'm going to have a serious, massive book hangover for a long time.
This is a YA sci-fi series.
It's hard not to like the kids in this, but there are a few problems that have plagued me throughout the series.
Two of the biggest ones are dialogue and missed opportunities with world building and character development.
With so many characters tightly linked to each other, there are many places where additional info could be rolled in....but it's not.
Overall, I like the premise of this series.
I'm just having a hard time with execution.
However, it still rules my reviews for this target audience....so 3 stars, mainly for the characters.
