https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/57785.Job
In the monotheistic religions, such forces are natural but may be suspended or re-directed by God. The result is a miracle - either a blessing or a curse which has a supernatural cause - as of course in the biblical story of Job.But miracles are problematic for the religions which recognise them: If God is omnipotent and therefore can relieve suffering or manage the world to be benign, why does he not do so as a matter of course?
"Mendel Singer lighted two candles, stuck them fast to the naked wood of his desk, shut his eyes, and began to pray.
Gradually his torso slipped into the old, customary swaying, his whole body prayed with him, the feet scraped the floor, the hands closed to fists and pounded like hammers on the desk, on his breast, on the book, and in the air.
His beautiful, poetic prose is the main reason why I loved the book, and why anyone should read it.
L'essenza della letteraturaC'è poco da fare, certi autori per me costituiscono l'essenza della letteratura. Il grande Roth (Joseph, sia chiaro) non sbaglia un colpo, mi fa venire un blocco allo stomaco dopo due pagine e mi impedisce di smettere di leggere fino a che non decide lui, vale a dire alla fine del libro. Poi, finite le pagine, il blocco allo stomaco si protrae nel tempo
Mendel Singer is in every way like the Biblical Job except that he is not as rich as Job. He is introduced as the God fearing Jew who is blessed with a lovely wife and two sons and a beautiful daughter.
He is left with no sons, no daughter, no wife and no homeland (for he had already moved from Russia to America leaving the epileptic Menuchim at home with the neighbours).
This is the synopsis of the story of JOB/SINGER.I was amazed at the way Joseph Roth had told it exactly in the way the book of Job is organized.
Sembra che ad aver la meglio siano coloro che restano: Jonas sopravvive alla guerra e Menuchin sicuramente guarito parte per l’America anch’egli ma quando ormai la sua malattia è stata lasciata alle spalle.Tutto l’agire di Mendel e Deborah sembra vano, non hanno il possesso della loro vita.
Ένα μικρό αριστούργημα που δεν ήθελα να τελειώσει. Εντάξει, μπορεί το τέλος να φαίνεται ολίγον cliché -έχοντας κατά νου το βιβλικό πρότυπο- ωστόσο ο χειρισμός της πλοκής είναι υποδειγματικός και η γλώσσα πολύ ζωντανή. Θα διαβάσω οπωσδήποτε και άλλα έργα του Roth· μου κέντρισε το ενδιαφέρον η εξαιρετική γραφή του.
O casal e quatro filhos a quem "Deus parece querer testar a fé até aos limites.", tal como a Job.O pai - Mendel Singer - é profundamente religioso, aceita com serenidade as vicissitudes da vida "Contra a vontade do Céu não há força que resista." Mas sofre sofre tanto tanto que quase perde a fé...A mãe - Deborah - é crente mas pensa que "O homem deve ajudar-se a si mesmo, e então Deus ajudá-lo-á." Revolta-se contra a passividade do marido e luta até aos limites contra o destino adverso.
"A dor torná-lo-á sábio, a fealdade bondoso, a amargura suave e a doença forte." Querido querido Menuchim...Porque sou ateia, aborrecem-me livros muito centrados na religião e não acredito em milagres divinos (acredito sim nos milagres humanos) mas, como diz Gordimer, Roth escreve sobre a humanidade.
La sua vita tranquilla viene scossa alla nascita del quarto figlio, minorato e da quel momento sulla sua famiglia, che nel frattempo ha dovuto emigrare in America, si scatena ogni genere di sventura.Mendel tutto sopporta, abituato a seguire ciecamente tutti i principi religiosi che hanno ispirato la sua vita e quella dei suoi antenati.
Una favola fortemente imbevuta di religione (ebraica come quella dello scrittore).Forse però il fine di Roth non è quello di parlarci della religione, bensì quello di colpirci con le emozioni; e ci riesce, indubbiamente ci riesce.
Joseph Roth - a German-speaking Jew - wrote this one in 1930 and is retelling us the ancient story of Job. Joseph Roth's prose is tender, simple and melancholic.
A book about flesh and blood, about men and women, their triumphs and sorrows.The story itself is so sad, that sometimes I had the wish not to continue reading it.
The main character, the Jewish teacher Mendel Singer, is living with his family in poverty and modesty.
He is a complex figure who wrote of complex themes.The book is worth reading and it is sad, that Roth - a writer of such immense gifts and achievements should not be more revered.
Non fa una piega: Mendel Singer è Giobbe, e Dio resta Dio.Peccato l'ultimo libro del Libro di Giobbe sia un'addizione tardiva, cosa che spesso dimentichiamo, per cui in realtà al pio e timorato nostro uomo non resta nulla, e tutto del nostro meditare si dovrebbe concentrare sulla sventura e il male, la loro insensatezza - insensatezza, direbbe la Weil, che è l'unica verità della Vita. Ma, anche stavolta, tutto finisce bene. Amen. "Perché Mendel Singer aveva imparato solo in America, dove tutti avevano fretta, ad andare adagio".
Another one of those books that I reread because I was forced to read it in school and wanted to know how I would react to its story nowadays.
I remember giving a presentation in school about the picture that is drawn of America and the impact the journey had on Mendel and his family.
Trying to start anew they move to America only to be faced with the biggest question: how much harm will a benign god let happen to his believers?What I remembered most about the story was the character of Menuchim.
Allo stesso modo del patriarca biblico Giobbe, Mendel Singer -ebreo russo- mette alla prova la sua f
Ein moderner Klassiker, den man gelesen haben sollte. Mendel Singers Auswandern in die USA und sein Scheitern. Er verliert Hoffnung, Familie, Visionen, Zuversicht und sucht nach seiner Identität und will nur nach Hause. Zurück in sein Schtetl, was es aber dank Krieg nicht mehr gibt.
Reading Job was a great emotion - this is the only book in my life that moved me to tears. Roth manages to build up the emotions - sadness, bitterness, joy, hope, rage - and to touch some inner strings, just like Mozart can do with music. This books may teach you something about life.
3.5Η ιστορία μιας οικογένειας που φεύγει απο τον τόπο της για να πάει στην Αμερική για ένα καλύτερο αύριο.Εκεί ο πατέρας σαν σύγχρονος Ιώβ θα δοκιμαστεί πολύ σκληρά απο τη μοίρα.
Yo creo que no he sentido tanta decepción al leer el final de una novela como en esta ocasión.Me estaba gustando el relato, su ritmo, su estilo, el retrato de este Mendel Singer.
Me convencían los cuadros minimalistas que Roth nos iba mostrando, resaltando ahora una luz, ahora un gesto, ahora un objeto, ahora una emoción, un pensamiento, de ese gastado matrimonio, del sentimiento entre amor, compasión y crueldad por el hijo y hermano tullido, de las distintas aspiraciones y visiones de la vida de los hijos tan alejadas de la de los padres (tremenda la misoginia judía aquí retratada), del golpe cultural a la llegada a EEUU, de la rebelión ante su amado y temido Dios y de su dejarse ir final… no, final no, el final todo lo trastoca, todo lo devalúa, todo lo estropea.
Mierda de final.
Ya. Estoy conquistada. Es un gran placer leer a Joseph Roth, y aunque no puedo decir que Job, aunque tiene momentos bellísimos, me hay gustado tanto como la Cripta de Los Capuchinos, igual puedo decir que seguiré leyendo a Roth, hacia los caminos que sean, porque realmente me tiene cautivada su forma de escribir.
¡Ah, Mendel, Mendel! Viejo sabio, hermoso y justo, viejo tierno, qué historia la tuya... Gracias, Roth, por contarla de una manera tan esplendorosa, con una pluma que siempre va en pleno vuelo y cuyo brillo no cansa. Bella novela, bellísima. Llena de sabiduría clara y dulce, como el agua que, directamente de un riachuelo, nos llevamos a la boca.
'Ik kan onmogelijk recht doen aan de poëtische subtiliteit van dit boek. Maar voor de literaire merites kan in onmiddellijk instaan.' (Thomas Mann) Wat kan een eenvoudige lezer hier aan toe voegen?
The wonderful tale of the life of Mendel Singer, the simple man and his journey through life and to America. It will take you to the depths of despair and raise you to the heights.
A beautiful book about a Russian Jew in the early twentieth century who becomes a plaything of God. I will definitely be reading more of this author.
While his son Jonas joins the army (usually most Jews in Russia dreaded the moment when their sons had to go to the army where they were exposed frequently to the rudest forms of anti-semitism) and even likes it there, his second son Schemarjah is deserting and emigrating to America where he soon changes his name to Sam.The biggest problem beside Menuchim who doesn't show any sign of development is Mendel's daughter Mirjam, who has several affairs with soldiers and even cossacks, who had frequently a prominent role in the anti-semitic pogroms.
"Job" for Roth meant his breakthrough as a novelist.Mendel Singer is a pious, God-fearing and ordinary Jew who lives in the idyllic Schtetl Zuchnow and performs there with his family a modest life as a village teacher.
Still he believed humbly that misfortune was just a test from God. The first blow hit him when his youngest son Menuchim is born with epilepsy.
When the gifted composer and conductor Alexei Kossak (really Menuchim) comes to America he introduces himself to his father.Joseph Roth tells the story of Mendel Singer in a language both allegorical and with biblical directness, whose theme is one of divine visitation and the wonder of God's grace.
Letto diversi anni fa.
Mi è rimasta una bella sensazione di nostalgia e di poesiaNella mia operazione di trasloco da aNobii, mi sono imbattuta ora in "Giobbe".
L'indecente laconicità del mio commento (giugno 2008, miei albori anobiiani), mi ha suscitato un immediato sorriso e una domanda «Ma che razza di commento è?!?»; stavo dunque per cassarlo, non riuscendo in alcun modo ad arricchirlo dal momento che io di quel libro, oggi, a dieci anni dalla dichiarata lettura, non ricordavo più nulla; l'avevo perfino messa in dubbio, quella lettura, se non che...
Among the most touching, beautiful books I've ever read. A modern allegory of the biblical Book of Job.
Arme Joseph, en niemand die jou kon redden, als je dat al had gewild.
Aber für mich ist die Geschichte rund um den aus Russland emigrierten alten Juden kaum mehr als eine teilweise rührende Erzählung.
Aber das allein ist nunmal auch nicht abendfüllend.Ganz sicher gibt es da draußen Menschen, die sich allein über die Genialität freuen, mit der der Autor diesen Wiedererkennungseffekt erzeugt.
Die sich nahezu besitzlos wähnten und vielleicht erst nach und nach begreifen, was sie eigentlich besaßen, dass sie verlieren konnten.Ich will ja gar nicht leugnen, dass ich an der einen oder anderen Stelle auch mit dem Protagonisten mitgelitten habe.
Zwischen mir und Hiob hat es einfach nicht gefunkt.
A rabbi instructs Mrs Singer to never leave the young Menuchim, and predicts that his situation is not a hopeless one, but one that will take many years before he begins to improve.Years later, as the Singers sink deeper into poverty they are encouraged to emigrate to America by their son, who has found success in New York.
However, new challenges await them, and for Mendel his personal suffering is magnified, as his faith in God is severely tested.This modernized retelling of the Biblical story of Job was very well done, with sympathetic and realistic characters, and excellent portrayals of the crushing poverty and struggles of pre-revolutionary Russia contrasted with the chaos and stresses of life in New York's Lower East Side, and is highly recommended.
اولین باری که این کتاب رو گرفتم دستم که بخونم، ۱۶ ساله بودم.
دو صفحه خوندم گذاشتم کنار.
سالها بعد که دوباره گرفتم دستم، تا صفحهی آخر نتونستم کتاب رو از دستم جدا کنم.
این کتاب چند بعد داره بنظرم، بعدی که برای من خیلی جالب بود، بعد مهاجرت و هویت مهاجر بود.
جا گذاشتنها و تاثیر «غربت» یا جای جدید روی آدمها.
تاثیر زبان جدید روی زندگی فرد مهاجر هم یکی از محورهای این داستانه.
تفاوت نسل ها و هویت مهاجر نسل دوم و سوم.
بُعد دومی که خیلی جذاب است، صبر ایوب است که تو تمام کتاب پرت م
اولین باری که این کتاب رو گرفتم دستم که بخونم، ۱۶ ساله بودم.
این کتاب چند بعد داره بنظرم، بعدی که برای من خیلی جالب بود، بعد مهاجرت و هویت مهاجر بود.
جا گذاشتن‌ها و تاثیر «غربت» یا جای جدید روی آدم‌ها.
تاثیر زبان جدید روی زندگی فرد مهاجر هم یکی از محور‌های این داستانه.
تفاوت نسل ها و هویت مهاجر نسل دوم و سوم.
بُعد دومی که خیلی جذاب است، صبر ایوب است که تو تمام کتاب پرت میشه تو صورت خواننده.
بنظرم برای آشنا شدن با یک بخشی از فرهنگ دینی و فرهنگ دینی - یهودی خیلی کتاب جالبیه.
Lovely book, and beautifully written. I'm not sure I like Mendel though -- he feels like a character in a Coen brothers film. (I realise that's anachronistic, and I'm guessing that this novel influenced A Serious Man, and maybe even The Man Who Wasn't There.) On the prose itself, one thing that really stands out is Roth's frequent use of colour when describing things which is a very simple but extremely effective way of changing mood.
