https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/239919.Damnation_Alley
The story is simple enough: in a post apocalyptic America, where the country has been split into two nations, one being the Nation of California, the other being whatever the citizens of Boston have decided to call it, runs a stretch of road that has been named the Damnation Alley.
For Zelazny, he wanted Hell Tanner to not only be a hero but he also wanted him to be a hero and a man in a world that was closing in on the brink of annihilating itself.
I remember when I was a wee one, I watched the movie Damnation Alley, and I was terrified by the flesh eating cockroach scene.
I wanted to read more about the cockroach scene (which isn’t in the book, damn it!) And practically everyone gives DA rave reviews.
And at the end, when all the motorcycle thugs are chasing Tanner, I couldn’t help but wonder why he just doesn’t mow them down (I know that sounds bad, but come on they're trying to kill him!) These bad guys are just on frickin’ motorcycles for Christ’s sake.
Apparently around twenty or thirty years later, the few people still alive , are struggling to survive.This is when Hell Tanner(real name),biker,gangster,killer, all around bad guy, gets a pardon.He will be free as an eagle,and that bird,is no longer in existence.Neither is the United States(just a few petty states), from prison.
Hell only loves his motorcycle.Which he has just lost.There is a catch of course,go from Los Angeles to Boston,the only relatively large populations, left in the world.Bringing serum to plague infested Boston.Otherwise,no more bean town,they need it very soon,like yesterday!
I was beginning to think I just didn't like reading any more, but I had trouble stopping today at lunch.In some ways, this isn't one of Zelazny's best novels.
In many ways, it's rather trite - a post apocalyptic action yarn with a anti-hero.
Jan Michael Vincent is so NOT Hell Tanner, though.
Zelazny gives this anti-hero a heroic mission to perform.
It's not my favorite work of his, but it is entertaining & much better than the movie based on the book.
The movie starred Jan Michael Vincent & George Peppard back in the early 70's.
Damnation Alley is about a biker named Hell Tanner who has to take some plague serum from LA to Boston, travelling a route called Damnation Alley across the nuclear wasteland that is the United States in a car that might as well be a tank.
Along the way he encounters such mutants as giant Gila Monsters, spiders, bats, butterflies, and snakes.
Hell Tanner should be regarded as Snake Plissken's ancestor of sorts.
Every time he had dialogue I kept hearing Kurt Russell's voice.
The writing is a little cheesy but it fits with the story.
Jan Michael Vincent was way too pretty to play Hell Tanner.
Не напрасках всичките му книги когато си направих профил в гудрийдс, така както повечето хора правят с Кинг, само защото постоянно го препрочитам и горе-долу на всеки две години съм минал отново всичките, та така или иначе ще получат оценки и ревюта.
Сега – всичките тези неща накуп, заедно с щипка страхопочитание и примирение.Това е единственото филмирано произведение на Зелазни (ако не броим „Последният защитник на Камелот” в една от сериите на „Зоната на здрача”).
Може би заради това най-вече я харесвам толкова.Книгата включва и алтернативен превод на „Роза за еклисиаста” (мисля, че има четири превода и всеки има какво да дообави към произведението) – едно от най-поетичните произведения на автора, отнесло камара награди.
Reread as research for WIP. Hasn't improved any since last time, a great concept poorly executed.
When I read this I was struck by the similarities between the deal offered to Hell Tanner to run the serum thru Damnation Alley to a plague stricken Boston in order to recieve a full pardon for every criminal act he's committed in the Nation of California...hmmm. That sounds a lot like the deal offered to Snake Plissken, who seems to share a lot of other similarities with Hell Tanner, who admittedly came first in 1969.Being a big fan of Plissken's exploits I can't help but like this pulpy sci fi novel.
This is a post-apocalyptic novel of Southern California. Hell Tanner, an imprisoned killer, is offered a full pardon in exchange for taking on a suicide mission—a drive through "Damnation Alley" across a ruined America from Los Angeles to Bostonto deliver an urgently needed plague vaccine.This copy is signed by Roger Zelazny.
We get a little taste of Hell Tanner's character, but it's mostly non-stop action.
There are gila monsters the size of houses (at this point in my description of the setting, my husband Mike laughed out loud), giant spiders the size of people, and all manner of ferocious creatures and equally ferocious human beings.
(At this point in my narrative, Mike, said - the earth is filled with radiation, it's raining dead fish and garbage, there are giant man-eating gila monsters, and you're worried about smoking?
He is married and now lives in Baltimore." (Now Mike is like, what???)
I remember loving the short stories in The Doors of His Face, the Lamps of His Mouth, but really couldn't tell you why I never went on to read anything else by him.
Tanner must cross through the radioactive desert, fight off giant bats and snakes, and ride out violent, unpredictable storms that can dump debris at any time in order to finish his journey.Even though the subject matter is violent and dystopic, Zelazny writes with a power and poetry that is rare in such hard-nosed science fiction.
His descriptions of the journey leave no doubt about the harsh realities Tanner faces, but draws you into the story and makes you a part of that reality.
Чел съм я и препрочитал в още кратката ѝ версия, на страниците на любимото списание "Космос".Това преработено и допълнено издание е страхотно, ясно е от къде са черпили идеи с пълни шепи създателите на Лудия Макс!!!Девил Танър е помилван при едно условие, да прекоси постапокалиптична Америка от край до край и да занесе ваксина на иначе обречените жители на Източното крайбрежие.Зелазни е просто връх тук!!!
I gave this a 3 as a tribute to Roger Zelazny. I picked this book up after the movie and barely remember it. i have little recollection of it being that much different from the movie aside from the, convict taking on suicide mission for a pardon. Post apocalyptic America left broken up into police states. Three vehicles heading from L. A. to Boston to deliver plague vaccine across Damnation Ally. That's the part of the west/south west left a dangerous ruin.
Tough, nasty Hell's Angel with a heart of gold transports a case of vaccine across a post-Holocaust America, to save the inhabitants of plague-ravaged Boston. It's quite good if you're in the mood for that kind of thing. As several people have pointed out, the main character rather reminds one of Snake Plissken in Escape from New York, though this novel predates the movie.
It is all the more lovely for coming directly after the completion of the most flawed part of the book, a love interest (aptly named "Corny", and making it difficult to believe that the man was unaware of his limits) that was clearly forced in to flesh out the original story into something which is still barely book-length.
This fleshing is the only thing keeping the book this side of masterpiecedom, and makes one wish that we were better at printing novellas than we are.
I don't think Zelazny thought the story through properly.
I just reread the book after more than 30 years and was horrified by all the holes in the storyline.
* The US was flattened, yet LA and Chicago survived, if anything, they should have been the first to go;* These cities not only survived, but were thriving enough to build radiation/bullet-proof vehicles;* Where did the raw materials and food come from to feed the people in these cities (and the communities that were passed through) - eg, the hero was smoking 90% of the time(!);* etc.
I felt no empathy with the hero - there really are better 70s books out there.
Damnation Alley is pure post-apocalyptic cheese, decorated with some ideas of genuine weirdness that uplift an otherwise mediocre by-the-book thriller.
Boston is afflicted by a deadly plague, and California has the cure.
And to do it, he has a customized, armor-plated, rocket-packing, flame-throwing, all-terrain driving machine.This book is at it's best when Zelazny is describing the deadly landscape.
Good post-apocalyptic fiction uses the end of the world as an acid to etch away the cruft of civilization, revealing what is essential about human nature.
Here, Zelazny uses it as a canvas to airbrush thunderstorms and giant bugs.
A rather Light weight adventure post-apocalyptic story as compared to the epic and iconic "Lords of Light", but written with clever or humorous prose as are usually found in his shorter works such as those found in Zelazny's "The Doors of His Face and other stories". And so, I now know, thanks to Goodreads reviewer "Peter Tillman", this was an expanded version of a novella published in 1966. Makes perfect sense. I recall a movie based on this that I saw an eon ago when I was a pre-teen and recall that I liked it well enough.
This book is 100% perfect as an illustration of a story being about the journey and not the destination.
Zelazny creates a world in which a nuclear war has created a nightmarish, hellish landscape with enormous creatures.
Hell Tanner has to cross this wasteland to make a delivery.
(view spoiler)[When he finally makes it to Boston, we just do a jump-cut to a statue of him, signifying his journey saving Boston.
But it's literally the last 1% or so of the book.
This short story (or novella?) has a certain style of prose that harkens back to old genre fiction.
(hide spoiler)]

This was a wild ride across the North American continent from LA to Boston, passing through many dead, and I do mean dead, cities and through a lot of obstacles.
Hell Tanner gets a full pardon from California for any crimes he ever committed if he agrees to take plague vaccine to Boston - through Damnation Alley.
He's a driver and a good one at that.
Hell and Greg get over the Mississippi and refuel outside of St. Louis.
They also agree to keep Greg while he recovers from a concussion.
It's fun but I like other Zelazny stories better.The protagonist, Hell Tanner, follows the template that many of Zelazny's men do: the chain-smoking, wise-cracking type.
I also enjoyed the exchange with Corny about the back rub; in fact I liked their relationship all around, simple though it was.Tanner shows depth, too: he shakes the guy's hand in New England, and shows emotion for Corny after the ambush.
This shows that the character has depth, and is not just your typical action hero cut-out.I think it kind of says something that the most terrible part of the run through the Alley was the gangs of humans at the end.
It just doesn't feel right.The original, which is in The Last Defender of Camelot, is one of the greatest pieces of action ever.
It's an outrageously crappy and bizarre movie, but if the cashola he gained from that allowed him to write some of the amazing stuff he did in the next few years following this book, then rock on, yo.Since The Last Defender of Camelot is so good on so many other levels, I recommend picking that up and reading the short version of this story, which retains the best of the characterizations and the crazy forward momentum.

OMG...post apocalypse at it's BEST...ergh, i wish i could remember the epitaph the main character writes for his girl who dies along the way...something like: 'Here lies Cordelia / it might not matter to no one but she was my girl and I loved her..' Dang! Anyways, wonderful book, wonderful introduction to Zelazny - if you enjoy reading books about what happens after the world ends, you can't miss this one.
DNF Really boring and I literally couldn't care what was going on.
Not so much drug use but skewed worlds, dangerous and monstrous environments.
So Zelazny doing the post-Apocalypse is marvelous.
As always, the social structure of the post-apocalypse is a fascination.
There are biker gangs and the mail route is a dangerous job reserved for expert drivers.Hell Tanner is a great anti-hero, completely unburdened by the contemporary mores of keeping his fellow characters in the story.
Which is a rare thing anymore...The movie with Jan Micheal Vincent and George Peppard is entertaining, but not at all like the book.
For one thing, there are no cockroaches and no one is Air Force in the novel.
A bit dated of a read but still enjoyable. I do like Zelazny's style and plan on picking up a bunch more. It is nice that most are quick reads.
A good sci-fi actioner. A man must travel from one end of the country to the other to help some folks out. It's a fun read.
Review coming as soon as I can...
