https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/26130685-scouting-on-two-continents
I'm glad I did.This is both a rousing adventure tale and a fascinating look into the mind of the Anglo-Saxon/Victorian generation.
Racial theories were taught as a matter of fact at university and many really did believe that Kipling's poem "The White Man's Burden" was correct.
Burnham and his peers believed in the old adage that to the victors goes the spoils and since the Empire was the White Man's accomplishment then they got the goodies.
In the end Scouting on Two Continents is an entertaining read and a fascinating look at a time that is both romantic,larger than life and flawed.
Burnham lived quite a life, ranging from the American West/Southwest to British Colonial Africa.
Captured in the second Boer Wars and escaped.
Nearly starved to death, nearly died of thirst (more than once), escaped Wilson's Last Stand during the first Matabele War (this would be tantamount to someone escaping Little Big Horn), narrowly avoided capture by Apaches, escaped being gunned down by a bounty hunter, and was involved in the Tonto Basin feud.
Fascinating life, lived by someone determined to live every last minute to the fullest.
Fascinating and exciting autobiography of a man who fought criminals in the U.S., fought in Africa's wars, and searched for gold in the Yukon. Russel was a scout, moving through the wilderness undetected trying to obtain information about his enemies. His story includes many near-death experiences, but reminds us of what it used to mean to be a man--not afraid of anything, and willing to sacrifice oneself for principles and for a cause.
Good story from a racist eraFine writing and some exciting stories about the Boer War. Overshadowed somewhat by the overt racism and colonial hubris of the writer.
The book was written by a person who was not a writer and it shows in the work.
The last three chapters seem written by another person, because the change of style is more than noticeable.
I do not recommend it.El libro fue escrito por una persona que no era escritora y eso se nota en la obra.
Los primeros 8 capítulos son tediosos y desordenados, más que un relato parecen una lista o ayuda de memoria que nunca fue desarrollada.
Los tres últimos capítulos parecen escritos por otra persona, pues el cambio de estilo es más que notorio.
A fascinating journey across many countriesA fascinating journey of a very bygone era . Political views of another time q.despite the blindness and arrogance of his colonialist vision he shows a kinship with those he refers to as savages, often acknowledging his preference for their company. A lot of wisdom in this book and a very good read
Autobiography of an adventurer and explorer whose life was like a mashup of Richard Francis Burton and Jesse James. He despised mainstream American life and social values and the book describes a series of (successful) attempts to find alternatives. You couldn't make this stuff up, it's remarkable.
A Scout that should be noted by Military studiesThis account of life as a scout is remarkable in his attitude to danger and ability to do and carry out calculated risks . These were no nonsense times where only the brave and cunning could survive . A great read.
When I first started reading this book I felt it was going to be very boring. As I got further into the book I found myself cheer the main character on or holding my breathe while he was sure to be captured by the enemy. Over all this was a good book.
Adventure at it's bestFollowing this great adventure and life of Major Frederick Burnham of his early years in the west and on to Africa and even into Alaska and back to Africa shows the real spirit of the a true American at it's best.
A surprising gem.A character not included in the concise history of our country taught in our schools. A tale that reads like a dream, a life not forgotten thanks to the printed word. Chosen on a whim, a book I will long remember.
A man among men. You simply could not make this type of stuff up. It is legendary, I wish I could go back and hear some of these stories from Burnham himself.
Never knew who this exciting man was.
Sojourner A good look at one mans life and adventures as well as a great history lesson. Nothing boring about his life and times.
GoodI enjoyed the book the man lived a most interesting life almost boarding on fiction for all his adventures interesting
Burnham's was an incredible life of high adventure, albeit not without significant tragedy. This is a fascinating, eloquent memoir written by a man who would have doubtless been remarkable in any age of the world, yet was doomed to ride through the exciting and turbulent times of the late-19th and early 20th centuries. A great companion to this work (for those enamoured of this historical period) is "Forty-one years in India: From Subaltern To Commander-In-Chief" by Lord Roberts, Burnham's commander during the Boer War...a book which was also a favorite read of Burnham himself!
Fred Burnham is one of the greatest scout/warriors that our great country has produced and yet virtually no one knows who he is. This autobiography gives only a hint at what a great scout he was due to his great humility and tendency for understatement. I wish someone would write a true biography of the man. He reminds me of the great F.C. Selous in both his exploits and his humble manliness.
Very readable and enlighting book.
this was a very interesting auto biography, interesting beginning in the wild west, then adventures in Africa, I knew so many of the places, which made it even more interesting
