https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/12725.Sing_Down_the_Moon
The ending is optimistic, but anyone who knows anything about the history of Native Americans won't be consoled by such an ending.Though I read the book very quickly, I don't believe I ever fully connected to the novel or the main character.
I feel like he was imitating the way he thought a Navaho girl would speak, rather than allowing Bright Morning her own voice.This is, I think, due to the fact that O'Dell was white and writing about a culture different to his own.
O'Dell can certainly have empathy and understanding for the Navaho plight, but at the end of the day, he is an outsider writing the story of someone totally different to him, and it shows.
Read this book in the car to my children as we were traveling through New Mexico to Arizona from our home in Pennsylvania.
However, when we stopped in Fort Sumner for gas, my kids got so excited because we had just read about Bright Morning and her people being marched there.
I think the gas station we stopped at is in his picture!
Once we made it to the Grand Canyon, we watched some Navaho dancers and again, I asked my children if maybe the girl could be Bright Morning and the young man, Tall Boy!
It is 1863 and fourteen-year-old Bright Morning is a Navaho girl living with her father, mother, and older sister Lapana in a village in the Canyon de Chelly, surrounded by mesas in what is now northeastern Arizona.
Her friends are White Deer and Running Bird, and she is sweet on the young warrior Tall Boy. One spring day, Bright Morning and Running Bird take their sheep to pasture on the mesa.
Bright Morning and Tall Boy, who has lost the use of his right arm due to his injury, get married, but what will happen to them and their new baby?
In this book it talks about how a lot of people lead the Navaho's to a forest called bosque redondo where they were captured and were forced to eat flower and nothing else.What I think about this book is that it's a really intresting and adventurous book to read about.I recommend this book to people who like to read and learn about the old days and history and how people would live and survive back then.
This book was VERY boring, it may be because I hate the historical fiction genre. To me there was really no point to the story, its just my option. I would have to say that the way the book was written was not bad, I just didn't like the story in general.
Rereading knížky z mého dětství, narazila jsem na ni náhodou při vyklízení depozitáře v knihovně. Pořád je to výborné. Realistický a zároveň jímavý příběh navažského kmene a dívky Jasné ráno.
I really enjoyed reading this book because it was about the Navajo tribe ,The Long Knives , and Apaches that they got in a conflict ,had to escape for a better life. There are more interesting things about this book but if you want to know you have to read and find out. I gave this book a 5/5 because it entertained me and it had lots of details also because it seems like the story happened in real life (maybe it did).
A beautifully told story about the Navajos during the 1800’s when they were removed from their land. O’Dell was an excellent write of children’s historical fiction. Recommended for students from grades 5-9.
In this book it tells how bright morning and running bird get taken to a place with all of their tribes there. Then bright morning escape with tall boy. Then they get taken to a city and then they have to go alone. bright morning and tall boy get married. Then they have a baby and live there life alone in the cliff. I would recommend this book to people who want to know about the history back then . I would rate this book a 3.
The language is different from any book I have read because of the language that the main characters spoke.
I was intrigued from the very beginning because I knew just from reading the back of the book that the two girls were going to be taken.
The whole book goes through her story of being taken and the work that she had to do once she was sold to the woman.
Then, her village is forced out and it becomes more about her life and not so much about her people because she gets married and has children of her own.
My 3rd grade teacher had us read this book, which is kinda odd since I saw that some people shelved this as "Young Adult," so I didn't understand or care about much of it. Now, I am pretty positive I would appreciate this book MUCH more, and I hope that I can get around to rereading it with new eyes:)
This book is great 100% think you should read it it is a nonfiction book with a fake main character so not completely true but good enough for me.This book talks about the struggle of this native girl how gets kidnapped by these white men,and they are taken to this place were they are slaves They eventually leave the area and run back to there village (one of them get shoot on there return.)This book is good for all ages it is a quick read and you learn something so pick it up and READ.
I never got around to reading this as a child even though my family has had this book on our bookshelf for as long as I can remember. Even though it’s a children’s book, I’m glad to have read it now as an adult, because I can more fully appreciate it. This is a powerful story that is based on a real historical event, and I would recommend it to children and adults alike.
Nice short story about Native American life. Good for young readers. Found tall boy to be a bit annoying at times. The book description was a bit deceiving but other than that an interesting book to read when you need something short and simple
A good book, however it was really sad, mostly because it was mostly true.
This was our history read aloud. Was just ok.
“Singing Down the Moon” According to Scott O’Dell’s “Singing Down the Moon’, the Navaho Native Americans endured many long years of suffrage from the United States and the “Ute’s” Native Americans. The Navahos tried to protect themselves by creating treaties with the U.S, but they ran into trouble because “most of them were broken, some by the whites, some by the Indians”. (O’Dell.122). By 1863, things took a turn for the worst for the Navahos because the U.S. became savage and looted for Navaho
By 1863, things took a turn for the worst for the Navahos because the U.S. became savage and looted for Navaho’s land and left them homeless, hungry, dead, and made promises the other Indian tribes Navaho female children.
But little did the Navahos know that the U.S. could change their minds and void the treaties and make promises to other tribes such as the Utes “the livestock, the women, and the children they captured”, (O’Dell.
They died from starvation because the land was too barren to grow crops, they had no livestock, and diseases such as “smallpox” because they had no supplies or anyone to help them.
Follows a young Navajo girl just before and during The Long Walk. A good story, nicely told and with characters well drawn, although the beginning bit seemed too disjointed from the second half.
This historical fiction novel is based on many true stories from 1863-1865, when the ‘Long Knives’ or the Spaniards drove the entire Navaho population out of their homes.
One day Bright Morning and her friend Running Bird went out on to the mesa of Canyon de Chelly and grazed their sheep.
Later, more Long Knives came and started herding Navahos out of their homes.
One scene I liked in particular was when the Spanish slaver happened to show up when Nehana, Bright Morning, and Running Bird are trying to escape from behind the church.
Throughout the Long Walk, Navahos died by the hundreds.
A HA! This was the book that so haunted me from middle school! After I had described the plot, some friends suggested it might have been  , but it wasn't. It was this! The scene that is still so vivid in my mind was when the two girls are abducted by slavers. Shudder shudder shudder! I hated this story. Was it against the law to have us middle schoolers read something funny or uplifting? What is wrong with the people who create the required-reading lists for middle schools? Are they all tortured
This was the book that so haunted me from middle school!
After I had described the plot, some friends suggested it might have been 
, but it wasn't.
Was it against the law to have us middle schoolers read something funny or uplifting?
What is wrong with the people who create the required-reading lists for middle schools?
Are they all tortured souls who want to dwell on the worst of humanity or believe the arbitrary age of 11-13 is the perfect time to be introduced to the most depressing books ever written?
This is a gem of a story, especially to introduce children to the sufferings as well as the lifestyles of the Navaho people.
Her daily tasks, the spirituality of her tribe, and the decision making amongst the elder men.Then there are the horrors the Navaho faced from 'the long knives' (loved that O'Dell used the terminology used by the Navaho in describing white men/calvary soldiers) as well as the Spaniard slave traders.
None of this was written in sensationalized fashion, which makes the book a great story for young adults.
A wonderful story of hope and survival of a people grossly mistreated on their own land.
The book I just read is Sing Down the Moon. This book is so sad because their tribe goes through a lot. They tribe had been so strong for fighting for what is theirs , like they fight for their village and for their food and their place. I recommend this book to my whole class because they would feel bad for the things that happen to people and that they should be grateful for what they have.
Wow I am surprised, I actually like it a lot! I just started reading and all the sudden I didn't want to put it down! It was a quick and easy historical fiction read that taught me a lot about some of the past Native American culture and the hardships they went through.
Sarah is reading this for her class so I told her I'd read along with her. I have a feeling she'll need someone to cry with after this one...
This was a quick read. I didn't realize it was historical fiction until the end. It was very interesting to read about the history of the Navajo indians. I enjoyed it.
It was an interesting book if you like to read about slavery and how Native Americans were treated. I would recommend this book to people who want to know more about American history.
White soldiers (called Long Knives) come and threaten to destroy village if the warriors are away on a raidMap: Fort Defiance, Arizona.Image: BayonetVocab: canyon, astride, briskly, drove sheep, antelope, ledge, jutted, foolhardy, raid, Utes, dusk19: gun.
names baby "Meadow Flower"Vocab:portals, draw, ragged, scarcely, league, bands of navahos, overtook, haughty, restlessImage/Map: Fort Sumner86: Tall Boy returned with "same shamed look about him." Symbolism: lance lying broken on the ground88: Conflicting opinions aired: "soldiers tell me that it is a place of running water and deep grass." I think he believed it.
(view spoiler)[(Actually re-read that book, no idea what I was thinking, it was depressing beyond belief, I mean she literally goes back to the island for her brother who dies like two seconds later AND THEN stays on the god-forsaken island for like twenty years ALONE talking to ANIMALS, like DIE ALREADY!
And I'm here literally going crazy like is it me or does this not make any sense.
So if you had this in your TBR or were sitting here thinking about reading it don't waste your time regretfully, it's a little too late for me.
I was completely unfamiliar, though, with 'The Long Walk' of the Navajo/Navaho peoples during the Civil War. I knew that Colonel Kit Carson had been removed from his military responsibilities in the Civil War due to some of his untenable decisions as a commander, specifically related to slaves, and sent out to guard the frontier, but was not aware that he instigated 'The Long Walk.' According to O'Dell, this is an earth-shattering event in the lives of the Navajo/Navaho and is so much so that every tribal member, from young to old, can recite the experience.
Add to that the personal experiences--historical fiction but very well done--of the characters in this book amidst 'The Long Walk,' and you have a compelling story of tragedy, adventure, and at least temporary triumph.
The story begins with the breaking of spring, as the reader comes to learn a little about the tribe's traditions and myths through the eyes of Bright Morning, the main character.
The book is obviously sympathetic to the Navaho tribe's struggles during conflicts with Spanish settlers and American expansion.
As a narrative, I also particularly enjoyed the way that the smaller, earlier moments of Bright Morning's personal captivity foreshadowed the later captivity of her tribe.
Throughout the story, we don't exactly come to know much about Bright Morning or what she really thinks about her surroundings, save for a few passing mentions here and there.
