https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/178155.The_Thirteenth_Pearl
I've reviewed so many of these books, I've run out of things to say about them. This is as good as any Nancy Drew novel. Not sure what to say other than that.
People are described as "Oriental" and "Asiatic," and the entire mystery is really just an attempt for Carolyn Keene to describe for impressionable youth the "exotic" customs of the nation of Japan.
Despicable.The mystery is solved at the end through the discovery of some weird cult ritual that comes out of left field and makes no sense whatsoever.
In fact, the mystery is never really solved, so much as Carolyn clearly took a hit off the bong, wrote a paragraph, called it a night, and then sent the manuscript off without editing it.
And there are still unanswered questions, like where is River Heights?
Why didn't Hannah, who was apparently married herself at some point, but has lived with the Drews since Mrs. Drew kicked it, ever get married to Carson?
Probably a good thing, because it makes no sense.Nancy goes on a wild-goose-chase to Japan and disguises herself as a Japanese girl (with blue eyes and titian hair) and none of the Japanese people are any the wiser.
Anyway, they eventually return to River Heights where all the bad guys are (jewel thieves and a pearl-worshipping cult.
The last Nancy Drew book. I really, REALLY hated to see this come, but I loved the book none the less.
That means it should be "my dad" or "our aunt Gertrude" and not "my Dad" or "our Aunt Gertrude."However, I think the real reason for the lack of editing and tightening up the story is that the Stratemeyer Syndicate, then the owner of Nancy Drew, the Hardy Boys, Tom Swift, and many, many more children's series characters, had signed a new publishing contract with Simon & Schuster for new books in various series.
Starting with either book 74 or 75, books written by ghostwriters for new owner Simon & Schuster began to be published.)Enough grammar and history!There are better Nancy Drew stories than this out there.
Picked this up completely randomly when I forgot to bring a book to work and I found it in my car.I’m not even going to give it a rating because a) it’s Nancy Drew, but mostly b) yikes @ 1950s stereotypical racism.
I never read this one as a kid and I’m glad I don’t have positive childhood memories of it for this adult reread to ruin, because I was extremely uncomfortable with the way the Japanese characters were written and how Nancy interacted with them.
(Doubtful.)Also, Benny the Slippery One Capputti is hands down the worst criminal nickname I’ve ever heard.
I'm kind of sad after finally reading this book many years too late.
I used to read these as a 10 year old.
As a fan of this series, there wasn't many things that bothered me in this book.
Just the fact that it is kinda of impossible for an 18 year old to figure all this out within a few weeks/days.
None of that mattered to 10 year old me though.I quite enjoyed the travel to Japan and the jewelry theft aspect.
I'm feeling very nostalgic after reading this.
I might have to dig out the rest of them for a re-read!
I really liked this! This mystery book is very thrilling and fun. The author is very clever and creative for making such a great book!
Still enjoyed it! I miss this series. ❤️
Didn't know anything about oysters and pearls before reading this book. I appreciated that Nancy said on page 64 that she feels sorry for the poor oysters. For two or three years the oysters are irritated by the foreign object inside them. I, too, am disturbed by this . Then the guide replied to Nancy that nature does the same thing and that man does not harm the oyster any more than nature does. The whole concept of pearls for jewelry and luxury just offset the whole mystery for me and I didn't enjoy the story as I usually would.
It took me a while to read this one. I stopped reading it a few times. I usually love every Nancy Drew book, and that it why I decided to try again. I didn't love it. But I didn't hate it either. It was okay. I'll still read Nancy Drew books. I'm a huge fan of the series.
Nancy Drew works on a jewelry theft case. In this mystery, she travels to Japan with her dad. This was a little different because most stories involve her traveling with her friends, Bess and George. This is the 56th Nancy Drew mystery. Another fun mystery for Nancy Drew to solve.
Love all the Nancy Drew books. Easy reads where you don't need to think too much.
This one, the last of the original series, was a little far fetched to me. The pieces just fall into place a little too easily, especially in another country. Still, I liked it.
I have not read all of the Nancy Drew books, but out of the 15 I own I have got to say this is my favorite. As the numbers on the spine go up, the better the story and I love this one the most.
I love this series.
I noticed others have been a bit taken aback (or more) by certain words and the ways of description of Japanese culture in this book but I think overall there wasn't much to be insulted or irritated at, yes the use of the word "Asiatic", "oriental" and "exotic" is probably outdated in popular usage these days but considering when these books were written those were the terms used to describe anyone who was of Asian origin or association or foreign -i.e. not white/Caucasian.
I loved that this mystery was mostly her and her father -a nice touch I think, I like that they continued to keep the story focused on the mystery and didn't start answering all those questions you have piled up when you first hear about Nancy Drew -where is River Heights?
In The Thirteenth Pearl by Carolyn Keene a theft happens at a jewelry store owned by a man named Mr.Moto.
Finally Nancy goes back to River Heights when all of her sleuthing is done and discovers all the answers she has been looking for.I think that The Thirteenth Pearl by Carolyn Keene is a very exciting book, and keeps you on the edge of your set till the very end.
In the end I think that this book is a really good exciting and fast read, that you won't want to put down.
Nancy Drew and the Thirteenth Pearl is a book about Nancy and her friends trying to find a necklace that was stolen from a wealthy woman.
The necklace has been stolen from the jewelers safe.
So determined she goes to Japan with her father Carson Drew.
Nancy goes to a wedding and she ends up with stolen jewelry up her sleeve and is thought to be a criminal, but her father shows up and saves her.
The book ends with Nancy being safe at home talking with her friends about the case.
The Thirteenth Pearl  is a children's story by Carolyn Keene (pseudonym) and the 56th book in the  Nancy Drew  series. Asked to locate a stolen necklace of unusual value, Nancy Drew soon discovers that strange and dangerous people are responsible for the theft. I’ve always been a voracious reader. So, as a child, one of my favorite things about summer was the frequent trips to our local library, which was less than a mile from our house. Like most young girls of a certain age (ahem), my love fo
Like most young girls of a certain age (ahem), my love for mysteries started with Nancy Drew—there simply was no mystery too baffling that she couldn’t solve.
And as I would read her most current adventure, I would imagine myself following in her footsteps … taking charge and plunging ahead, getting into mischief, chasing down culprits and solving the mystery.
Even though I haven’t re-read any of these books since I was a child, I still think that Nancy is a great character—her courage, confidence and fierce independence, makes her an iconic source of inspiration for young girls everywhere.
A must-read children's book, 
is another wonderful Nancy Drew mystery.
Her latest case is to locate a stolen pearl necklace that is very valuable.
She soon learns that strange, mysterious, and dangerous people are responsible for the theft of the necklace.
To avoid the perpetual harassment of these mysterious people, Nancy even had to disguise herself as a Japanese girl!
In her search for clues to who stole the pearl necklace, Nancy goes to a questionable pearl farm and finds the pearls are poor quality.
She then goes to a party and she and her father get trapped in a hallway.
The thieves finally manage to kidnap Nancy when she goes back to River Heights.
A group called World Wide Gems is the suspect, and certain people associated with are particular suspects.Nancy and her father end up going to Japan where a variety of things happening, including the standard threats to Nancy.
(They're a really, really strange group, so strange that it's hard to believe them, which sort of hurts the story somewhat.)The best part of the book is the information in it about Japanese culture.
There's a good bit of information there and it's all quite interesting.The beginning and ending of the book are fine, but the other pearl-wanting group is sort of ridiculous.
Nancy has a new mystery and this time she's off to Japan!A rare pearl necklace owned by Mrs. Rossmeyer (who keeps popping up and having jewels stolen all around Europe) has been stolen and Nancy needs to help track the thieves.
There are all sorts of interesting cultural tidbits about Japan that are probably horridly outdated at this point (wedding rituals, shoe removal, etc.)But danger chases her across the ocean and even when she returns home, where she is invited by a strange voice to attend Mrs. Rossmeyer's next party.
It's there that she breaks up a ring of international jewel thieves.
Wow!
I can't believe I'm finally done with the Nancy Drew books.
It took longer than I expected, a year and a little over two months, I honestly don't even remember them all.
The final book could have been a lot more spectacular, the end quote wasn't even by Nancy herself, but it wasn't bad.
It was a lot like all the others.
I do wish it would have ended more conclusively, and time passed accurately (Nancy was 18 in all 56 mysteries, each took more than a week), but, for children's books, I suppose it isn't important.
I have now read all 56 Nancy Drew books.
Overall this book had an interesting enough storyline but it was kind of slow.
I was also hoping for a little bit more closure since this is the last book.
I'd say that the best books in this series are definitely the first ten of them; the last twenty or so all start feeling the same and they get pretty boring.
I still think that this is a good series to read though.
Every girl should read at least one Nancy Drew book in her life.
I remember the first time I read Nancy Drew. It blew my mind that there were girls presented with a brain. Most of the stuff I'd read up to that time, was that girls were sugar and spice - fluffy. No brains. To also learn about George who is a tomboy was a nice validation. Carolyn Keene wrote just for me! That is how I felt. When I did more research, I was shocked to find out, Ms. Keene was actually a man ... writing under Frank Dixon. I also loved the Hardy Boys. No wonder I loved these series.
This is difficult because I love Nancy Drew, and I have ever since I was about eight or nine, but this one...this one was awful. The actual story was okay, but the representation of the Japanese characters is terrible. I know this was published at a time where that wasn't such a big deal, but wow. I feel kind of disgusted that my professor actually picked this as an example of 'transnational girlhood'. Is this just in this particular book, or did I gloss over even worse stuff in the rest of the series?
This one wasn't that great. I hate when Nancy goes to another country and everyone happens to speak English and the police are willing to drop everything to help her. Also Nancy seems to run around in circles and take a pointless trip to Japan. Not one of the best but it is the last of the original Nancy Drew series so it's worth a read.___________________________________________second time reading:They really used this book as an excuse to break out every Japanese stereotype.
A great review for a great bookThis book is one of the best Nancy Drew mysteries I have ever read. It has suspense and keeps you on the look out for Nancy Drew. With the threatening phone calls and notes, Kidnappings, and vicious dogs for his Nancy Drew is a great. Suspense novel.
I just had to include ALL (56) of the Nancy Drew Mystery Stories in my virtual library. I read the entire collection during Grades 5 and 6 - I think, just to say I did. Thank goodness LeeAnne Werry (a wonderful school friend at my rural school) had almost the entire series. I remember I was sooooooo jealous!
