https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/12987804-old-granny-fox
Read through this with my 6 year old son. Good life lessons.
This series is all about animal stories. I liked it a lot b
The work is highly influential for a child reader and adult one in its style of writing and its content.As usual, every chapter begins with a title and a wisdom or it could be a rhyming couplet adding a further scope to the story.
The writing style is simple and easy to read, but it is completely engaging in describing the characters and their inner and outer feelings in a way that is realistic for an animal attitude, but also it is semi-anthropomorphised which is amusing.
poi gzbzsh
Delightful book.
As a young child, I would lose myself for hours in the simple world of the wood and pond inhabited by Little Joe Otter, Buster Bear, Grandfather Frog, and terrorized by Farmer Brown's Boy. I can remember the very shelf, even the exact spot in the little library in Felton, CA where these books were kept.
I do not recall if Old Man Coyote plays a role in Danny Field Mouse's story or the other way around, but this concept was presented several times.
Some of my childhood favorites were the animal stories of Thornton W.
Burgess.
They are a big moralistic and pedantic; Old Granny Fox has morals about good living as well; she's full of homilies.
But they are still strong, simple animal stories, a lighter version of Bambi or the child that grows into Watership Down.
Burgess also has an ecological heart; he's very much of the Theodore Roosevelt school of hunting and wilderness ecology.
Old Granny Fox is definitely not for every child, but I still think there is value is these old fashioned books.
Burgess presents life as a fox and the struggles that Old Granny Fox and her nephew, Reddy, find themselves. Winter is hard when mice, birds and rabbits are not available. They seek the farmhouse for help. Old Granny's wit is matched with Bouswer the Hound.Her experience is challenged by Reddy as he learns to appreciate her age with its wisdom, especially when he doesn't go hungry because of it.A good book for nighttime, since the chapters are short and review what has happened prior.A good book for a beginner book to practice with parents.
I LOVE itThis is a stupid review so don't read it.JK I AM JUST KIDDINGThis book has many good lessons and morals. A great book for everyone.
