https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/372556.Absolute_Beginners
To read oneself and one’s peers in a novel written in 1958 is something special, something wonderfully moving to contemplate, even many years later.What lifts Absolute Beginners above the idea that life for the young and unencumbered can be a great time, a fun carnival, is its complete awareness that this is also rather an illusion, and a crushingly temporary one at that.
But race and racism are there the entire time and slowly but surely become the whole point; by the end, the reader and the protagonist see how fragile a life full of living can be when the world is singling out his peers for destruction, and those peers are turning to him for alliance.
One of the reasons I picked up Absolute Beginners again was because of historian Dominic Sandbrook's daft grudge against Colin Macinnes (in  Never Had It So Good ). I last attempted it in my teens. It had been a slowish read – proved to be the same this time round – and was easy to give up on back then because the library copy was a horrible mouldy one. Now, the vintage atmosphere and detail in the story was way more interesting so I hung around to savour that (when younger I'd filed this era as
(One of the good points Sandbrook makes is that most people of this era, even the younger ones, weren't mods, hippies or their rock 'n' roll precursors, they were hardworking squares.) There's something artificial about the way the main character loves the term “teenager” (as beloved of the media then as “hipster” has been for the last few years, though back then there was more fear and real disapproval, rather than the contemporary eye-rolling).
(By the 80s, presumably re-reviewing in the light of the film, the NME says "Macinnes caught it first - and best"; and Paul Weller, just born when it was published, "a book of inspiration.")Some reviewers are critical of the way black, Jewish or gay people are described by the narrator.
With that lesson, this is a coming-of-age novel in the spirit of Catcher in the Rye -- the love of place and childhood innocence that inevitably slips away.The movie, for a musical, did capture a lot more in the book than I would have expected, but it certainly borrowed most heavily from the first and last chapters: meeting all of the narrator's Soho characters and the 1958 riots: setting and plot, and some rather slick dialogue.
The novel gives us two middle chapters which the movie largely ignores, but gives readers an insight into the inner thoughts and feelings of the narrator.
It's the first book of the year and the first book I had to read for this semester of university (for my post-1945 literature class) and it definitely sets the tone for a good year of reading.It was way funnier than I expected and I really enjoyed the episodic element of the story.
We basically follow the main character who is a young photograph in 1958's London through 4 different days in 4 different months of the year.
There is a strong element of diversity in the characters, we have black people, Indians, homosexuals, lesbians and more.
On the plus side I could still remember whole scenes from this work although it has been at least twenty years since I last read it.
The negative is that it hasn't aged well.
It rings a true as a lead pound coin.
The author's attempt to approximate working class and youth cultural speech is cringe worthy and patronising.
The reality was that McInnes was from a middle-class background and grew up in pre-war colonial Australia long before the concept of the teenager as an entity existed.
He vacillates between regurgitating media reports about the teenage phenomenon and preaching liberal-left propaganda.
Interesting book. A good read and did well to portray the time and place but not the classic I was expecting. Definitely worth a read though.
While I was traveling in London a couple of weeks ago, I started reading Absolute Beginners about 1958 Notting Hill in the run-up to the race riots.
I realized why I'm finding these books appealing when I watched the recent documentary on JD Salinger, author of perhaps the most famous midcentury book narrated by a teenager, The Catcher in the Rye. All teenagers feel alienated from adult society — mostly because they refuse to succumb to the phoniness of it all.
The novel depicts youth culture in London through the eyes of a precocious, empathetic teenager in the run-up to the 1958 Notting Hill race riots.
“Now, you can think what you like about the art of jazz – quite frankly, I don’t really care what you think, because jazz is a thing so wonderful that if anybody doesn’t rave about it, all you can feel for them is pity: not that I’m making out I really understand it all – I mean, certain LPs leave me speechless.” ― Absolute BeginnersColin MacInnes' novel "Absolute Beginners" (1959) is a wide-lens view of pre-Beatlemania London, with characters, images and ideas that remain pop fixtures: stylish, jazz-loving Mods; leather-clad, rock-loving Teddy Boys; the ascendancy of the teenager with increased income and diminished responsibility; and an atmosphere of combustible youth culture reacting to WWII-era morals."Absolute Beginners" is a remarkable period artifact for those reasons alone, but its literary qualities will surprise many readers looking for the cult novel that profoundly influenced Paul Weller.
To me at least, it read for all the world like the anachronistic work of someone writing in much more recent times about how they would have imagined the late 1950s to be.
But more than that, the anti-racist politics of the latter part of the novel, set against the background of the 1958 Notting Hill race riots, read to me like a modern liberal's wish fulfilment of what a white liberal kid in the late 50s might have made of it (though such an author would probably have refrained from having his narrator use the term 'Spade' to describe the black characters.
It’s London in 1958, and the narrator of Colin MacInnes’s novel is living in what seems to be a new-minted teenage paradise, where teens, for the first time, have money to spend and the freedom to spend.
Also, his dad may be dying.It’s a novel that seeks to capture the brave new world of its time, when life for its young narrator seems full of nothing but possibility, only to be suddenly dashed as he becomes thoroughly disgusted with the intolerance, violence, and sheer complacency his fellow human beings are capable of.
As it happens, it does contain some language that has dated in such a way that it brings a smile to the lips of the modern reader, but it's simply not possible to read this book right through with an ironic smirk.
It's just too good, too exuberant, too smart, too accomplished, and the issues it raises are acutely appropriate for our own age.The single quality about it that impressed me the most is the relative sophistication of the narrator in the essential political, cultural and social aspects of London life.
This book has changed my view of what life was like in '50s Britain.
(view spoiler)[Bettie's Books (hide spoiler)]
It is as if the narrator has rejected the names (and thus the roles) assigned to them by their parents, as representatives of the previous generation, and they are re-inventing themselves, or seeking their own identities and by doing so, re-defining the world itself.Moving on to the other main point I wanted to discuss, I have a bit of a love-hate relationship with the style in which this book was written.
I wanted to read Absolute Beginners because of its ties to the development of Mod culture.
The first person narration really gives you a really personal look into the life of a main character with a very distinctive voice in quite a unique time culturally.
At the same time MacInnes deftly weaves the bigger social issues of race, class, and sexual orientation into this very personal story, not unlike the way Christopher Isherwood captured 1930s Germany in his Berlin Novels.Absolute Beginner's is not only a fascinating look into 1950s British youth culture, but British culture as whole just before the dawn of the far more documented 1960s.
It's difficult to assess exactly what I think of a book that is so firmly set in and attached to a particular time and place.
While I enjoyed bouncing around the London mod scene, particularly the nicknames and commentary on the other characters, I never felt very invested in the narrator's on/off relationship with Suze and really didn't feel that there was much tension in it.
Both the family and race riot sections are when the prose comes out of the setting and moves onto more universal themes.
In particular, the way that racial tensions are exploited by tabloid media.
Reading it made me feel like a teenager again - populated as it is with young people who were England's first ever teenagers (and doing far more with their youth than I ever did with mine).
The unnamed narrator may use pejorative terms like 'Spade' and 'Poof', but he likes black people and gay people, and he sees no reason why what makes them different to the white straight majority should stop everyone getting along.It's also an unromantic love letter to London.
I understand Absolute Beginners is one of three books by MacInnes themed on London and black culture in the 50s, and I'll get around to reading the other two some day.
After I got a little bit into this book, with its outdated slang and its theme of youth rebellion and after glancing at the copyright page -- it first came out in 1959 -- I realized, "Ah, this is the British response to 'On the Road.'" England is a smaller country, of course, so instead of tooling across the North American continent in search of wigged out jazz musicians and so on, the characters are taking cabs between Soho and Notting Hill to listen to some skiffle in a pub.
But even so, I started to notice something wrong: the slang, even given the trans-Atlantic differences, seemed a bit tone-deaf, and the characters spent too much time actually TALKING about the generation gap and "teenagers" instead of just showing what the generation was about.
Die Angst vor Verlust von Eigentum, Freiheit und persönlichem Recht, resultierend in Klassenkampf und Wut gegen Einwanderer.Was sich wie eine sehr knappe und einfache Analyse der aktuellen Lage in vielen Ländern anhört, ist aber die Grundbeschreibung des Inhaltes von "Absolute Beginners" - dem 1959 veröffentlichten Roman von Colin MacInnes.
Im Roman beschreibt der Autor die Rassenunruhen aus Sicht der Teenager, und erstellt mit einer direkten und verständlichen Sprache ein umfassendes Bild."Absolute Beginners" ist nicht nur historisch und gesellschaftlich interessant (schliesslich erfährt man vieles über die Gesellschaft und Kultur von England zur damaligen Zeit), sondern auch als Parabel zur aktuellen Situation.
Vieles scheint sich in der Entwicklung zu wiederholen, der Roman dient somit als einfacher und beeindruckender Einstieg in die komplexe Thematik.
This is London in '58 - a mass of kids with attitude and cash, throwing off the shackles of post-war austerity and indulging in drink, drugs, casual sex and jazz.
Everything that the oldsters hold dear is rejected, everything is new and fresh and has to have a new cool name ("Fabulous Hoplite" and the "Ex-Deb-of-Last-Year").
Our narrator is a teenage photographer out for kicks, a proper Londoner who can barely bring himself to move out of his manor and nothing gets him more than the friction between the indiginous brainless youth (The Teds) and the coloured immigrant labour (constantly and I'm afraid probably authentically called "spades").
A bible of late fifties cool.
I am certain that if I first read them as an adult I would not hold these two books so dear.
Nostalgia is a great thing.I think Absolute Beginners suffered in popularity because of the 1986 film, as I recall they left out my favourite character The Great Hopite and I didn't care for all the Jazz hand/pointy toed pirouette dancey bits that were not in the book.
It was definitely a cool trendy book to read before the film and now no one talks about it much which is a shame because it is a great book.
Mysteriously out of print for many years, this classic novel of teenage life in fifties and sixties London charts the late and largely unlamented cafe bar culture of the period, full of sharp suits and casual violence. Despite being slightly dated, in particular due to its outdated terminology, the book evokes the period in expert fashion. It is chiefly memorable for its depiction of early immigration into Britain from Africa and the Caribbean. Made into a by all accounts lamentable film featuring Patsy Kensit.
A non-stop frenzy trip around the sixties' teenage movements and a total dictionary annihilator for whom, like me, English is not our first language and even less all the jargon that drench every single paragraph.
Allerdings auch ein Kandidat für die "Kleine Bibliothek der übermäßig von sich eingenommenen Erzähler" (zusammen mit "Zen and the Art of Motorcycle Maintenance").
2.5 stars. This book was interesting for the history but some of the writing felt awkward and I didn't really feel too invested in the characters.
despite how long it took me to read for such a short book - I really enjoyed this!! The narrator was witty and fun and I wish it was longer :)
Written in 1959, it evokes the youth subculture of the 50s. Bursting with energy, bitter-sweet, and enthrslling. Don't judge it by the movie version.
From BBC Radio 4 - Book at Bedtime:Colin MacInnes's cult classic about teenagers, style and racial tension in 1950s London
Stephen obiecuje sobie, że już więcej nie spotka się ze swoją studentką poza uczelnią, jednak nie potrafi się jej oprzeć...Gdybym miała wybrać jedno słowo, które mi teraz przychodzi na myśl, byłoby to słowo idiotyczne.
Jak czytałam całe akapity jego myśli o tym, że nie powinien spotykać się ze swoją studentką, po czym i tak jechał do jej mieszkania, miałam ochotę rzucić tym gniotem o ścianę, co zresztą później zrobiłam.Nie mogę nie wspomnieć o tym, że Debiutant był po prostu nudny.
Potem cała powieść kręci się wokół tego, że główny bohater nie powinien sypiać ze studentką, ale i tak to robi.

This book reminds me a lot of Kerouac's On the Road, only nobody goes on the road and it's set in London!
You have to read this book in the voice its written in for it to make sense - not exactly Cockney English but rather, late 1950's British slang.
The scene is at the intersection of the seedy underbelly of London's projects and the jazz clubs of the day.
While the latter chapters are disheartening to read, it's also a reminder that history repeats itself and we march on, hopefully with an upward trajectory intact.
