https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/4685.One_L
This was a fascinating look at what law school is really like.
Sure, I've seen the movies "Legally Blonde", "The Paper Chase" and even "Soul Man," but this wasn't a goofy Hollywood movie -- Scott Turow actually lived it.Turow started at Harvard Law School in September 1975.
He took good notes and kept a journal of his experiences as a law student, which he later turned into this insightful memoir.
While I don't plan on going to law school, I do enjoy books about academia, and I'm glad I read this.
I highly recommend "One L" to anyone interested in the law school experience.
This guy seemed to think going to Harvard Law School was going to be like playing musical chairs, where everyone got a chair.
I mean, not only is it law school, but it's Harvard.
And he's shocked that everyone is overly competitive and a little bit whacked out because of it.
Even though the class load was rough, he was still able to manage to get 6 hours of sleep most nights, and only pulled one all nighter (I know, Amy. I died a little inside when I read that too.)
Turow paints a largely accurate picture of the life of a first year student at a top American law school.
Grade distributions from the first year classes of property, contracts, torts, civil procedure, and criminal law are useful to firms in sorting out the more talented from the less so in the narrow skill of writing an exam.
Legal doctrines, decisions, and arguments frequently draw on concepts from economics, and students who are well-versed in economics likely have an advantage in law school.
The Socratic method, whereby professors "cold call" students or ask questions and delve into the responses to reveal underlying concepts and encourage critical thinking, is a staple of the first year legal curriculum.
This book is fine, except how people keep insisting it has anything to do with the actual common experience of law school.
Please, law students keep away or, at the least, don't treat this book as any true statement of the social or intellectual experience of law school.
Turow doesn't sugarcoat any of it -- the unyielding professors, the cattiness between students.
And just because the story itself is 30 years old doesn't mean it isn't valid: Very few law schools have changed dramatically since then.My favorite quote came at the end:"I want the advantage," I said.
"I want the competitive advantage.
I want to do better than them."[...]It took me awhile to believe I had actually said that.
I told myself that I had said that to shock Terry and Stephen.
Before I started law school, I was repeatedly told to buy best selling author Turow’s version of his first year at Harvard “if for no other reason than everyone else there will have read it”.Well, I’m one week into law school, and no one has mentioned it, thanks.
Still, it wasn’t a totally waste of time.
Reading how horrific Turow’s professors were to him steeled me for my first day of class.
I was totally ready for someone to cry.
I was almost disappointed at how nice all my professors are, then I came to my senses and was just fucking relieved.Turow’s writing is punchy and enjoyable, and shit, the thing took no time at all to read.
You rarely impress upon me the need to read any one book in particular, so when you put this book in my hands I actually put down the book I had recently started and instantly began devouring Turow’s memoir about his first year of law school.
But I have a whole new respect for those smarts after reading Turow’s account of the demands — both intellectual and emotional — of law school.You probably also gave me this book to read because you know that I’ve always wanted to be a lawyer — that I still think about being a lawyer from time to time.
Although the book doesn't seem dated in any outward sense, other than Turow's use of an electric typewriter when writing exams, it does seem a little dated in that I think first year law students--first year anythings--are better prepared now than people were in the 1970s and earlier.
I couldn't help think of this difference while reading One L and thinking that people entering Harvard Law cannot possibly be as naive as Turow and his group were.
Still, I think what keeps this book fresh is its emphasis on the emotional experience of going through such an intense initiation into a new language, a new way of thinking, and a new profession with the added stress of being at THE law school, Harvard.
Problems: - I thought Turow, in protecting the identities of many students and professors, distilled them all into way less interesting, one-note caricatures.
Plus, he mentions how steep the price is--3,000 dollars a year--several times, incredulously.
Yet tuition now at a top school is more like 50,000...per year.
End rant.- I do see how egos and pressure can make law school more competitive than it has to be, and manufacture a lot of artificial work in addition.
But weirdly, Turow didn't make the work seem that hard.
Now, granted, I didn't go to Harvard Law, but I DID attend a fairly high ranked law school and, from my experience, Turow protests FAR too much. It makes for a good story, but oh, the drama! I only wish that William and Mary had been that exciting and filled with academic intrigue!
Great bit of non-fiction from Scott Turow.
4) A little bit of all of the above!• One great scene has one of his favorite professors say ‘You will all wield enormous power, more than you realize.
I hope you use your power to help people, but I know that this is much harder.”• Another insight is about the law school Socratic method – where a teacher stands a student up and throws question after question at them in front of their classmates.
It shows that sometimes in our lives we face situations that we don’t like – that make things easier later on.
My brother, who went to Harvard Law School says it's very true to reality.
The professor in The Abbey, who bears a likeness to One L's Professor Perini/Kingsfield admonishes Scene from The Abbey: “ 'And I’m sorry we allowed a clearly unqualified applicant into this law school based on some supposed community service.' My nails bit into my palms.
Or are you an asshole to everybody?' I didn’t think there was going to be any oxygen left in the room after the collective intake.
That’s probably going to hurt my grade."
Must disagree with the jacket/ GoodReads blurb, "entirely true." NOT according to one of his undergrad professors, Theodore Baird, who wondered how Turow could present himself as such a blank slate upon arriving at Harvard Law, when he had endured the undergrad assault of Baird's Amherst College.
But of course, it makes a better story about only the Law School if the naive youth arrives so unprepared for the Big Leagues.
It does read well, as if "entirely true." But isn't that the role of Fiction?
The one thing that I got form this book is that I'm very glad that I'm not a lawyer or ever contemplated law school. Even though this book is decades old, the systems still sound similar, the environment doesn't seem like one that is conductive to learning. I really hated how by the end it seemed like everyone was happy when someone else failed. Not sure how that could possibly build an environment where you have a good support system when you need one the most.
I'm hesitant about writing a review of this before completing my own 1L. I think the most I can say is that you have to respect how unvarnished and detailed it is, but I didn't necessarily enjoy reading it.
Definately an accurate portrayal of that harrowing first year of law school. Read it BEFORE you decide to go!
Whiney recounting of Turow's first year at Harvard Law School.
Scott Turow has written an illuminating account of his first year at Harvard Law School and, considering how little legal education has changed since its origins in the late nineteenth century, it is an account which is and will continue to be, for the foreseeable future, timely, relevant, and accurate.In view of the prestige and elitism of the institution where he got his legal education, certain tendencies present in many educational institutions are likely to have been exaggerated in Turow’s experience in ways that prove revealing.
Who knew a book about studying would ever have me so enthralled...
I'm a fan of Scott Turow's writing and have been aware of this book that he wrote about his first year at Harvard Law School, but didn't give much thought to reading it until someone donated the audio book to our library's used book store.
I would have been able to read the actual book much more quickly.The audio book begins with an introduction by Scott Turow.
As I listened to the book, I was trying to picture which of the characters in Turow's class my brother would have been.At times the author was a little whiny about how difficult law school is and what the students went through.
On the pro side, Turow is a good writer who structures even this supposed transcript of his memoir with a fair amount of novelistic suspense.
Our hero must confront good and evil personified by his various professors (seriously, there are times when you'd think you were reading Harry Potter).
More fundamentally, it was written 30 years ago, and at a time Turow himself acknowledges as one of tense generational conflict.
Inevitably, this generated a lot of conflict with the professoriate, which appears in Turow's book as deeply divided between conservative old guard who considered humiliation a basic teaching tool and younger faculty who fashioned themselves progressives.
For prospective law school students this book is a wake-up call as to what the study of law will demand of you.
Especially that first year.I absolutely adore this book because it brings me back to that first year of law school in a single paragraph.
It reminds me of the wondrous time that law school was for me and also makes me incredibly thankful that I went through school with a genuinely nice group of folks who were no where near as academically overwrought as those described in the book.I find I miss the Socratic teaching method and the level of work it demands from students.
But I was only able to read it when I was already in third year, or after I got kicked out and transferred to another school.
I realized that first year in law school is the most critical in the life of a lawyer.
It was a familiar experience in my first school to be grilled with questions by the professor using that method.
The book narrates not only about law school but about being human in an intense, often grueling, situation.
I really enjoyed reading this first-hand account of Turrow's life as a Harvard Law School 1L.
Turrow at one point references the "inflated" prices of law school texts and then goes on to grumble about paying $15 to $26 on a text book.
Could you imagine only spending $26 dollars on a text book in this day and age?
I will pay over $9000 for one semester of law school and that's at a much less prestigious school than Harvard Law. This comment however says nothing about the merits of the novel or Turrow's abilities as a writer.

(4.0) Actually made law school sound cool (yes, hard, painful, miserable but cool)Didn't realize before picking this up that he wrote it in the 70s...and had a vague notion that Turow was an 'actual author' (though I haven't read any of his fiction), but didn't really put it all together.
It was much better to vicariously experience the highs and lows of law school, and I appreciated the critical eye he took to his environment.
Not that I'd ever consider going to law school, but he made it sound like much more of a valuable, life-changing experience.
I read this the summer before starting law school, and thought pretty highly of it, probably because I thought it represented most students' experiences (and it scared me).
Turow is a good writer, but this was extremely whiny and not at all representative of most law schools (according to my own experience + the experiences of friends at schools like Harvard and U of T, all of which are pretty competitive).
On a second read, this all just sounded very whiny and not at all realistic.
Law school is definitely difficult but it is not like this (though, admittedly, I am not going to Harvard).
Although the harrowing pedagogical methods described by Turow have fallen out of common use in law schools, this is a valuable introduction to how the One L year is structured as well as some of the basic legal concepts discussed.
It does not deal much with the substance of the field of law, but is nevertheless valuable for law students, if for no other reason than to know that you are not alone in the roller coaster ride of confusion and enlightenment, victory and defeat that is the first year of law school."
This is a second read for me.
I this would be a great book for anyone that is entering Law School, no matter what school they attend.
I enjoyed this book just as much this time around.
It is very inspiring, and I find that I read through the Con Law book that I still have from my 1978 course.08/28/2017: It looks as though I read this book in August.
I read some of the reviews, and found it interesting that some agreed with Turow's assessment, others found it a bit dramatic.
I have started this book a third time.
Since I have often read legal thrillers, I was interested in how the lawyers are trained.
Scott Turow's book about his firt year at Harvard Law School I found very, very interesting.Some of the technical data may have changed--prices for lawyers; people use laptops now not typewriters and so on.
The pressure, stress and competitiveness that Turow describes no doubt still fairly accurate even after all these years.I recommended it for any interested in law or lawyers; I give it a solid 3 stars; not fantastic but well worth reading if the subject matter is of interest to yoou.
