https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18296030-don-t-look-back
Not now, not ever.This is the story of Samantha and her trying to find what happened to her best (dead) friend, Cassie.
I mean, the plot is good and this whole easy and agreeable to read, but the characters were really banal.
Sincerely, I think, main character excluded, that I’ve seen those kinds of personalities in hundred other books that I have read in the past.
Both main characters are feared and thought to be crazy, murderers and in both cases it was the best girl friend that died.
After spending 24 of the last 48 hours in the nursing lab, I thought... [image error]Then I discovered there was going to be a new Jennifer L. Armentrout Book... This is absolutely... HALLELUJAH!!!!!! And the world makes sense again :-)
Actual rating: 3.5 “Don’t take this the wrong way, but I’m not proud of it. Even though you didn’t have that damn necklace on, as far as I knew, you were still with Del. And I’m not big on making out with another guy’s girlfriend." The apocalypse has arrived, and the signs started with Khanh liking a bad-boy love interest within an Armentrout novel.I've read a lot of Armentrout books, and I have to say that this was my favorite in her repertoire. It was not amazing, but like all Armentrout works
The apocalypse has arrived, and the signs started with Khanh liking a bad-boy love interest within an Armentrout novel.I've read a lot of Armentrout books, and I have to say that this was my favorite in her repertoire.
She has to sort out her feelings between her childhood friend Carson, the son of "the help," and her handsome, blue-blooded boyfriend Del. There are relationships to be rebuilt between her family and her twin brother Scott, and she's going to have to rebuild some broken friendships.And try not to get herself killed in the process of remembering what happened the night Cassie disappeared.
This book had my rapt attention right up until the end...and what an ending it was!When Samantha is found, bruised and battered after being missing for four days, she has no recollection of who she is.
With friends that she can barely tolerate, and a boyfriend that makes her skin crawl, Sam can't even pretend that she wants her old life back.
Her so-called friends turn their negative attentions toward Sam and she finds herself an object of ridicule and speculation.Along the way, she is able to rekindle some friendships that she had trampled on in her rise to popularity.
This book was quite the roller coaster.
She was an actual non-annoying heroine, her love interest was well done, the situations paced perfectly, overall a pretty good read.I can't pinpoint anything I didn't like specifically, but I had a few small issues with the ending (just feeling not...conclusive enough?
I can't really fault a book for ME seeing things coming, but some of the plot points were just..overdone?
Things I've seen before, and could see coming from a mile away.
Some stuff just felt too...easy.Overall I enjoyed it, probably won't ever re-read it, but would definitely recommend.
I wasn't just gripped by the story, I felt like I fell headfirst into Sam's life and was right there through everything!
I've read plenty of books where I've been captivated by characters, but nothing like this.
Scott and Julie are amazing supporting characters, and to be honest, I wish I had a twin brother like Scott.
He's gorgeous, has a protective streak to rival Scott's, and is so sweet and patient with Sam that I swooned almost every time he was on a page.This book is said to be Black Swan meets Pretty Little Liars...fits it perfectly.
*4.75*I could not stop reading this book! I love the romance and the plot twists, the whole thing is captivating. The main character is put in a really interesting situation where she is questioning her sanity and it was intriguing as a reader to experience that with her. However, I think some of the plot points are predictable, and although I like the main character, she could be really naive.Overall, a super fun and entertaining book and sucked me in!
I’ve suspected him like super early on in the story.
Sorry FBI, I know you could use my talent in your team but I’m too busy reading books.
Nevertheless, I really had fun not that it’s a fun story but because I got to don my FBI costume and work on the investigation behind the missing girl, Cassie.
I’m glad she finally thought of writing a standalone on a genre she doesn’t usually write.
I’m definitely looking forward to reading more standalones from her.
Lol. Hope you had an amazing day.
Honestly, I feel really cheated here bc practically everyone ADORES this book and when I scroll through the reviews im like…why cant I FEEL THIS WAY ABOUT THE BOOKI think, I think it may be time for maymay to let go of JLA. So so so so so, let’s break this down.  Pros - The writing was better than I expected, it held my interest for a time- The thriller part, what little we got of it, was great. There were moments where it was like 11pm and I kept scanning my room and looking around for scary sh
There were moments where it was like 11pm and I kept scanning my room and looking around for scary shadow shapes (spoiler: didn’t find any)-	If we could eliminate 80% of the romance from the story, it would have been fantastic 
can someone shed some light?-	The mystery could have been don’t really well if it wasn’t so cloudy-	Idk it just felt like it wasn’t the main focus of the book, which is fine, but like it all got solved in the last 10 pages and I was like ????uh???
Samantha and her best friend Cassie have been missing for days. When Sam is found, she doesn’t know her own name. Doesn’t recognize her parents, her brother, her friends, even her boyfriend. She can’t tell anyone what happened or where Cassie is. She has no idea. All personal details of her life are missing. But is it a bad thing?Lets be honest- Samantha was a bitch. She was a mean girl. All of her friends are mean girls too. Cassie was quite possibly the meanest of them all. This new Sam doesn
Samantha and her best friend Cassie have been missing for days.
This new Sam doesn’t like that sort of behavior.
This new Sam is getting a second chance to be a better person.
And this new Sam is finding herself attracted to someone other than her boyfriend...
Carson used to be good friends with Sam, until she became so mean.
Carson is willing to give this new Sam a chance, even going as far as helping her find out what happened to Cassie.
I loved how she dealt with her missing memories and tried to be a better person given the chance.
Like holy mother of goodness.
Can I just binge read every other existing JLA book right now???
Because I honestly don't want to read anything else at the moment and I DEFINITELY am not ready to sleep after finishing this!!
I loved that this didn't feel like a typical contemporary read, or even a typical mystery.
Between the spine-tingling suspense, laugh-out-loud jokes, sizzlingly steamy romance and underlying creepiness, this was a read that will surely make its way to my favorites list :) This book was like a psychological-thriller meets Mean Girls in the most epic way.
4.25 Stars
Amnesia is a commonly used trope in mystery novels, but I still find myself drawn to them every time.
Thriller-wise, we've got the face-in-a-rear-view-mirror shocker along with mysteriously appearing notes.
They do serve a purpose eventually, but an angle like this had a lot more potential to build an effective twist than it delivered.With that out of the way, I may not have fallen in love with this one, but I did enjoy myself while reading it.
JL Armentrout definitely has potential in the mystery genre!--An advance copy was provided by the publisher for review.For more of my reviews, visit my blog at Xpresso Reads
so I don't think there's a JLA book that I didn't like because this was amazing and thrilling and heart stopping and wow!
....ok, I take that back, Del the Dick was a person who I wouldn't have minded if he took a long walk off a short little pier (figuratively, of course haha) let's just say the nickname suited him.
With the memory loss Sam went through a whole character change which in my opinion was a major improvement to her former 'mean girl' self.
She discovered she did have a heart after all, could care about other ppl's feelings and be a better person.

4.75 starsThis is such a different type of book than Jennifer L.
Armentrout usually writes that I wasn't sure what to expect.
I am so glad that I decided to read it, because I enjoyed it so much.
I never wanted to put it down.
The only negative I have is that I guessed the twist at the end of the story in the beginning of the book.
However, I still wondered if I was right throughout the story so it didn't ruin the experience for me.
I hope the author decides to write more books like this in the future.
5 "Who am I?" stars So, the million dollar question is, did Jennifer ever disappoint me? And the answer is no. All the books I've read by Jennifer were amazing, and I adored each one of them. This book was no exception. It was amazing. I couldn't even put it down. From the start, till the very last pages, the book kept me entertained. I have to clap for J.L because I was in a reading slump, but honestly I flew through this book. The story follows Sam, a girl who woke up alone in the forest. She
All the books I've read by Jennifer were amazing, and I adored each one of them.
When Sam finally gets to know everyone around her, she notices that her brother's best friend hates her.
Sam is a very strong character that I liked to read about.
I have to admit that I loved Sam a lot!
I like Sam and Carson's relationship a lot.
(hide spoiler)]Scott, Sam's brother, was also one of my most favorite characters in this book.
I have read many YA books in the past, and I barely read about a caring brother like Scott.
Why did it take me this long to read this book? It's Jennifer Armentrout.... How can it not be amazing! Couldn't put it down... It was an intense read, chills, thrills and a few sweet love scenes ;)
wow. I am honestly speechless. This book was so much better than I expected and I’m just so shook. It was so easy to fly through and I really had no idea who did it up until it was revealed. I am S H O O K
4.5 starsI unexpectedly enjoyed reading this book. It was very interesting, with a quite various spectre of characters and their personal psychology. The writing style was fresh and it's impossible not to be pulled into the scary but yet beautiful vortex that is Sam's life. I loved unraveling the mystery surrounding Sam and getting to know the real Sam better. This is my first Armentrout book and I would like to read more of her contemporary books in the future.
You won’t like what you find."Samantha was missing for four days and when they found her she couldn’t remember anything, where she was, what’s her name, her parents… She wasn’t the only one missing.
Apparently, they both were b!tches to every one."I was stuck in this life I didn’t remember, squeezed into the shell of this girl-this Samantha Jo Franco-and the more I learned about her, the more I was starting to hate her."A few days later, Cassie was found but… and then those weird notes that Samantha received!
I liked all the characters even the b!tches!
We were joined by the secret of that night, a memory I couldn't reach.  When a book has a major twist and you need to put it down to gather yourself because your mind is absolutely blown. Ugh. What an incredible book! Fast-paced, brilliantly well-written, and with an ending that surprises. This book kind of reminded me of Mara Dyer trilogy and CoHo's Never Never but sure thing, they are very different stories but all at the same time, equally astounding.What I love about this book is that it's
When a book has a major twist and you need to put it down to gather yourself because your mind is absolutely blown.
Ugh. What an incredible book!
Fast-paced, brilliantly well-written, and with an ending that surprises.
While reading it I found myself guessing who the culprit behind the crime is but then in the end it turned out that my guesses were wrong.
This is such an impressive mystery thriller and I very much admire Jennnifer Armentrout for delivering a masterpiece.
Whoa!If you are a fan of thriller and mystery books with a touch of romance, this book is for you.
*4.75 SUSPENSEFUL STARS* “I was stuck in a life I didn't remember, squeezed into the shell of this girl and the more I learned about her, the more I was starting to hate her.” I truly enjoyed the hell out of this book! The suspense was killing me and I was unable to put this down for longer than half an hour. I read in some other reviews that they already suspected who did it from the very start, but I didn't see the identity of the killer coming at all!Review coming soon!
The characters she creates and the stories she writes are always so unique and interesting that once you start reading...you can’t stop.
“Don’t look back” is one of the best stories Jennifer has ever written.
It’s really different than her other books but as amazing as all of them.
I didn’t know what to expect but she managed to surprise me and believe me when I tell you...you will love every second of this book.The story:Samantha doesn’t know where she is and what is happening.
When the police car stops and the man asks her about her name...she doesn’t know it!
From first to last page well-written YA novel I highly recommend for reading!Srpsko izdanje ima odličan prevod, pogrešne korice i pogrešan naslov... Naime, primećujem da domaći izdavači u poslednje vreme bez ikakvog opravdanog razloga i bez obzira na žanr romana stavljaju neodgovarajuće sladunjave naslove (koji najčešće nemaju nikakve veze s originalnim) i sladunjave korice (koje opet najčešće nemaju veze s temom knjige) u želji da privuku što masovniju čitalačku publiku a time zapravo odbijaju čitaoce kojima su te knjige namenjene tj. one koji su ciljna grupa autora... Zato, ne sudite o knjizi po koricama... :)
I am so overwhelmed still, a few hours after finishing this book.
I can't even put in words what I have thought and how I felt while reading this book.
So, because I am so completely shocked that I could not guess a thing in this book have a series of gifs that represent me throughout my reading experience:I just honestly can't believe how good this book was for me.
The gifs are in no particular order either, the whole book I was on edge.
There is no way to even represent how much I enjoyed this book.
Dejé el libro marcado como leído y me olvidé de leer una reseña...bueno a ver el libro me gustó y en las primeras 100 páginas o así fue interesante y no tenía ni idea de lo que podría pasar y tenía ese toque de "misterio" pero me pasó que a partir de cierto punto se volvió muy cliché.
Me ha gustado, obvio, los libros de Jennifer son así, te engancha muy rápido y no puedes dejar de leer, la narración es sencilla y los personajes te caen bien, no para odiarlos ni para ponerlos por encima de todo (excepto la saga Lux) pero están genial.
4.5/5 stars! the only thing I really want so say right now: OH HOLY DAMN THAT ENDING!!!
Actually more like a 3.5, but a high 3.5. Would have been just a 3 if not for that ending. I did NOT see that coming. MY LANTA.
"Don't look back, you won't like what you find."  Oh, dear. THOSE PLOT-TWISTS! Jennifer did it again. Finally a book I truly enjoyed! "Don't Look Back" was a huge surprise for me, I honestly thought that I wouldn't enjoy this book as much I have. My book choices these last two month weren't THAT good, and I was seriously giving up. Thanks god I decided to read this one, this author never disappoints. I was 100% into the story since I started reading it. The mystery was so fun and it kept me on
"Don't Look Back" was a huge surprise for me, I honestly thought that I wouldn't enjoy this book as much I have.
I was 100% into the story since I started reading it.
I may have guessed a few things (like who was writing the notes or who was the murderer after a specific part involving calling the cops) but Jennifer was able to fuck with my head a few times and make the whole story unpredictable.
I also liked the fact that the story didn't focus on the romance, there was a perfect ammount of suspense and cute-time.
