https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/715791.Kiss_of_Crimson
4.5 Destine Stars I was glad to see that on this second time around, I still really loved Kiss of Crimson. Dante was just as sexy as I remembered. Chase was just as yummy. This book had some great action, some smokin' hot smexy time, and some very yummy warriors all rolled into one awesome read. Dante and Tess had a great connection. Tess had trust issues and Dante was in fear of the visions he has been seeing his whole life. Both were not looking for a relationship let alone love but they were
I was glad to see that on this second time around, I still really loved Kiss of Crimson.
Chase was just as yummy.
This book had some great action, some smokin' hot smexy time, and some very yummy warriors all rolled into one awesome read.
Dante and Tess had a great connection.
Tess had trust issues and Dante was in fear of the visions he has been seeing his whole life.
Both were not looking for a relationship let alone love but they were destine to be mates.
Not only did I love Tess and Dante, I really loved Chase.
"I don't want to feel anything for you, Dante.""God, Tess, I don't want to feel anything for you either." Now, that's a relationship. Built on mutual disdain for feelings. I'm hooked!aw, that's the nicest thing you've ever given me!So, in this book, we get Vishous Dante's story. He has terrible visions of the future. Ahem...While out one night, fighting the enemy, he gets shot a bunch of times and ends up at a veterinary clinic where the doctor helps him. *cough* And, then he erases her memory
I'm hooked!aw, that's the nicest thing you've ever given me!So, in this book, we get Vishous Dante's story.
Ahem...While out one night, fighting the enemy, he gets shot a bunch of times and ends up at a veterinary clinic where the doctor helps him.
He starts out giving this guy a hard time, but they eventually become bffs.Totally original storyline!The good news is that there are some differences, and they are all for the better.
Ghost girlfriends are soooo played!So, even though there is the whole this-is-totally-stolen-from-another-book vibe going on, I for one am really enjoying this series.
Segunda entrega de esta entretenida serie, que cada vez me está gustando más pero que me sigue recordando mucho a la Hermandad de la daga negra. Este segundo libro está protagonizado por Dante y Tess, cuya historia de amor me ha gustado pero no emocionado. Me he quedado intrigada con el personaje de Sterling Chase, pero ¡¡he visto que no tiene su propia historia hasta el libro número 10!! A ver qué me deparan los anteriores.
Adrian does an amazing job at telling Dante's story.
I found that I instantly liked Tess the moment she was introduced.
As a private practiced vet, she seems to have most of her life in control.
However, everything changes when Dante steps into her life.
Seeing those walls crumble before her and allowing herself to be vulnerable in front of Dante is a beautiful thing to see.
Dante kicks some serious ass in this one and I loved every single moment of it.
Chase has got his own demons to deal with and I'm really interested to see where Adrian takes him.
He is like the ultimate bad boy in leather (called the Stallion), and she is a loner, completely dedicated to her work independent woman.
The book is a real page-turner.
What we learn in this book:-We learn that the breedwarriors' abilities are inherited by their mothers.-There is a new situation with a new drug called 'crimson' which may influence vampires but not humans-We meet agent Chase who is looking for his nephew.
His personality is developing in the next books.
Yup yup, everyone liked it.Well, I can't say that I didn't but...
I expected a bit more from it, to be frank.
I've read this story numerous times.
I don't want something original, but I want the characters to be a bit different than the rest.
Or the friend-characters to be special.
Or the writing style.
Or even the names to have something special (Ok, Dante, the main male character, is also from Italy (the 18th century though), that was a nice touch, but I'm selfish like that, I wanted more).So unfortunately, this was a "meh" read for me.
It was boring, there is tons and tons of filler that detracts from the "romance", there are too many clichés and stereotypical romance story moments and it's still too similar in my opinion to JR Ward's Black Dagger Brother Hood series--the difference there being that Ward's is top notch.
The story outline on the back cover is very misleading--it's like a movie preview that looks really good but those are the best parts of the 2 hour movie and everything in between is a waste of time.
I like a good paranormal but not when it copies off every other book out there and rolls it into a weak story.
The second book in the Midnight Breed series tells the story of Dante and Tess.
Tess is in the dark about what is actually going on for most of the book after having her memory wiped of her first encounter with Dante, but she cannot help but fall for the gorgeously hot but mysterious man that suddenly appears in her life.
I really like him as an addition to the story, and loved the snarky relationship that he develops with Dante.
The ending was a bit abrupt, but I expect that the storylines will continue into the next books, so I’m not too concerned.
3.5 Crimson Stars
5 stars - Vampire RomanceGreat second installment in the wicked good Breed series. I loved the Breed warrior Dante...he is dark, sexy, sweet, and romantic. The relationship between he and Tess is well developed. I love this series!
Dante por mucho guerrero que sea y demuestre su bravura, tiene un gran corazón. Y aunque me ha gustado mucho, prefiero a Lucan, el vampiro de la primera entrega de esta saga. Voy a buscar el 3 libro...

3.5 starsFirst read Jan 29-30, 2015Second time read Oct 3-4, 2015
**re-read, not sure how many times I have read this book** I love this series
I love a book with intense action and a dark edge, but I do hate to see innocent people dying, and this series has a lot of that.I didn't really find Dante or Tess very tragic, although they had issues there were dealing with.
Dante was a character that I enjoyed reading about, but I can't say I ever fell in love with him.
I do feel like Dante and Tess were meant to be together.I liked that Tess was a veterinarian, but I think some aspects of her trade were almost simplified.
All and all, it was nice to see a veterinarian doing her thing in these books.
If I'd read this years ago, back when it came out, I'm sure I would have loved it. However my taste has evolved and this whole thing seemed extremely formulaic and boring. Oh well, read it at the wrong time in my life :/
This review was originally posted on Addicted To Romance   Summary   Dante, a member of the breed warriors, is out on a night of hunting rogues. Through a series of events, he ends up chasing a rogue, a rogue that is more dangerous than any he has encountered. Harder to kill, suffering from a  bloodlust madness that even regular rogues don't even suffer from. He ends up being shot and he comes across a veterinarian doctor, Tess, who he realizes after the fact of creating a bond to her, that she
But when one of her two closest friends gets involved in some dangerous business with the rogues, with young Breeds turning rogue over the drug "Crimson" soon Tess will have to choose between a old friend and the man she is growing to love.
Soon Dante and Tess will be thrown into the fire of danger, passion, and betrayal...
Dante, is one of the Breed Warriors, and fights to protect both his kind and humans from the savagery of Rogues and their vicious appetites.
The love story between Dante and Tess is real and vivid in emotion and passion.
In other word, nothing special but it wasn’t boring either.Since, I listen audiobook version, I can do other stuff at the same time too, so that’s good:)Many compares this series with BDB, well I don’t like that series, I forced myself to finished book #1 to see what is all about and hated it.
This one slightly better for me, these vampires weren’t farming women for foods like in BDB..., well that’s how I call it, farming.
I hate BDB 😡😡😡So this one much better, no women farm for food in here...Oh, I will give this better rating if not for the last 4 chapters, why on earth the smart and clever heroine suddenly acting so dumb like that?
3.5 StarsThis is the second in the Midnight Breed series and this time it focuses on Dante, a dark and intense warrior that you meet in the first book and Dr Tess Culver, a vet, they meet accidently (or maybe in a twist of fate) when Dante stumbles into her clinic injured after being attacked by a strange Rogue, he is in need of blood and doesn’t see her Breedmate mark until too late.I thought this book was an improvement on the first in the series, found the story more engaging and also the characters more likable.

This to me was better than the first book, but you do have to read them in order. If you do not you will be kinda of lost as to what is going on. But it is still a really good book.
4.5 stars!!
4 solid starsI liked this book more than the first in this series. Both MCs worked better for me individually AND as a couple, and the pace of the story was faster and never dragging both on the plot and the romance sides. Definitely going on with the series.
In one stunning erotic, moment, her life turns upside down, linking her to the stranger for all eternity.Dante wants to forget the beautiful stranger who saved his life, but fate has made her his and when a strange drug hits the streets turning normally placid members of his race into raging lunatics, he's alarmed to find out she is somehow in the middle of it.
I couldn't get a handle on why we should even like Dante, despite his tortured soul, and I never really felt the connection between him and his fated mate.2 out of 5 from me.
The story focus's on Dante (breed warrior)and Tess a Vetinarian Breed mate who despite having otherworldly abilities knows nothing of the world for which she was born.
At first unwilling to believe the tall stories she beleives Dante is spinning, Tess finally sees the depth of Dantes love when it's almost nearly too late.This was a good second book, and despite sometimes being a little slow had a good enough storyline to keep me interested.
I like how the relationship between Dante and Tess developed and also the way LA introduced us to Chase and Elise and look forward to reading their books sometime soon.Lots of Vampire Warrior action and some nice love scenes between Dante and Tess.
I am reading this series again...and enjoying it as much as the first time.The 2nd book in the Midnight Breed Series and we get Dante's story.I really like the world that the author has built..the idea of a race that arrived in this planet thousands of years ago and becoming vampires. Dante & Tess are likeable characters and I enjoyed reading their story.Also looking forward to the stories of the characters that have been introduced.
Since all the basic background information and plot setup was done in the first novel, this book dove headfirst into continuing the plot and developing a relationship between Tess and Dante.
You won’t be bored reading Kiss of Crimson!From the glimpses of Dante in the first book, Kiss of Midnight, I already had a very hot mental picture of him, but I was surprised at how much more there was to his character.
There was a lot of sexual tension between Tess and Dante starting early on in the book, but things took a bit longer to get really steamy than they did in the first novel.
There's a lot of well-crafted action and intrigue here; this series now has my full attention.Ah, so here we have the second entry in the Midnight Breed series, a collection of books which is oft compared to another series with some similar themes--it starts with a B and a D and a B--but I'll not make any further mention of such since the MB series does deserve to be considered in its own right.Those that are already interested in this book are likely to have read its predecessor Kiss of Midnight.
^_^ Compelling particularly because it was so closely tied to the awesome Crimson plot-thread.After book one I was pleased but certainly not clamoring for a copy of book two.
I have stayed away from reading both this and the BDB series at the same time because of all the negative comparisons from other reviewers.
So I will read this series first then the BDB.
Loved all the other characters and like other reviewers I sincerely hope Sterling Chase gets his own story (although looking at the blurbs for all up to Breeds #8 he hasn't so far :( )My only slight grumble is that the climax of the story seemed to be a bit rushed and Tess accepting Dante and his world just a wee bit too slick.
