https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/765300.Glinda_of_Oz
When Ozma learned about this she decided it is her duty as a ruler of all Oz to make peace between the nations.
Magic heavyweights of the Land – Glinda and the Wizard – had to join the fun very soon.L. Frank Baum wrote the book being mortally ill.
As such it was supposed to be the darkest book of the series and for this reason I was eager to read it to see how dark you can get in a children book.
The (happy) end” kind of dark from another very popular children series written by an author who was not dying at the time.
Well, that's me done with the Oz series (I'm not really interested in reading the more recent books by authors other than Baum).
I have to say that I've enjoyed revisiting Oz for the first time since my very distant childhood and this book was a nice one to end on, featuring as it does the vast majority of the characters from the other books in the series, albeit somewhat briefly in some cases.This book features two of the minor nations within the Land of Oz going to war against each other and Ozma and Dorothy's attempt to bring peace to these countries.
They try everything they (and you) can think of, and Ozma and Dorothy and the island are still underwater, and Glinda, who you're accustomed to seeing swoop in to save the day with ease, is just as helpless as the rest of them.It's also one of the more powerful books in the series, not just because the problem is hard to solve but because when they do solve it it takes all of them - Ozma, Glinda, Dorothy, the Skeezers, Red Reera the Yookoohoo (my favorite character in this one!
I had the pleasure of seeing and holding this original printed edition in person. This book is beautiful and, notably, it is the last in the series to be written by Lyman, himself. It is a fantasy story about a magical world with all the happy endings one could hope for.
So many of Baum's books are plotless fairy-land wanderings, so I was pleased with the structure of this story.Glinda and Ozma are the two main protagonists in this tale, and the story gives both of them a chance to grow as complex characters.
Their weaknesses as well as their strengths are showcased, which I think helps give this story its power and appeal.
The overall moral of the story is "don't fight with your neighbors." But I think that Glinda and Ozma's grace under pressure, their deductive reasoning, and willingness to admit weakness without falling apart is another more subtle lesson.
I think that this book would be just as appealing to children as the other lighter, more "fluffy" Oz stories.
I honestly had no idea that Baum had written so many books based on his wondrous world of Oz. Glinda was first published posthumously in 1920.
I'm now trying to find other books in the series.In this book, Glinda, while reading her Great Book, discovers troubles between the Flatheads and the Skeezers in northern Oz. She has never heard of either of these people but she worries that people might be harmed in a war.
Put away your troubles for a day or two and enjoy this excellent story and then find the other Oz books..
I haven’t read an Oz book since my Children’s Literature class back in my early college days.
The Wizard of Oz really came to life when I realized that within that well-known children’s story was a political statement on bimetallism (ie.
Regardless, I plunged into this piece of children’s literature with the same attitude as Dorothy when she wishes to accompany Queen Ozma on a trip to moderate peace between the Flatheads and the Skeezers.
Of course, if you don’t believe the original story was about bimetallism, you’re sure not going to buy into a pacifist parable, are you?I think Glinda of Oz is remarkably imaginative.
Good and readable and interesting, but not anything all that special. It would definitely be worth reading aloud. Not sure that the series had enough of a trajectory for me, considering this was Baum's last book. He never ran out of good ideas though. And this one is a bit less of a travelogue. 3.5 of 5.

To my recollection, this is the first time she really takes full initiative to mediate an outside situation since the Nome King/Royal Family of Ev issue in Ozma of Oz. So on one hand, this is pretty cool, to see her really act like a ruler, and not just some incredibly well-heeled fairy princess kicking around the Emerald City and having lavish birthday parties like a socialite.
She also takes Dorothy with her, and it's really the first time the two of them are traveling on their own, and it's also kind of nice to see them take such a bold and brave step.
Several main characters including Dorothy and Ozma, set out to a remote area of Oz because they have found out that somebody hasn’t recognized that Ozma is the rightful ruler of all Oz and they are not following the laws of the land.
In fact, the Skeezers and the Flatheads are actually engaged in war, believe it or not, which is most definitely a violation of the rules.Ozma and Dorothy get trapped and it’s up to their friends, including Glinda to rescue them.
Here we do see that Baum likely knew this was his last story because he has nearly all of the major characters from past books make a cameo appearance as they gather to help plan the rescue.
She is great.Ozma of Oz, who rules all, finds out that there is going to be a war between the flatheads and the skeezers.
Glinda is the most powerful sorcerous in all of Oz, and proudly protects all within the land.
I don’t think its essential to read all previous books, as you can get the gist of the story, but it does help you know the background to Oz.I don’t think the tale of Oz, will ever get old or less enjoyable.
For a book that was first printed in 1920, it’s still very much read today
Frank Baum's "Oz" books, we find Princess Ozma traveling to a previously unknown part of her realm to prevent war between two of her subject peoples: the Skeezers and the Flatheads., both of whom have come under the power of cruel dictators.
the Skeezers live on a domed, submersible island in the middle of a great lake, where they have developed the use of air locks and submarines, all of which work by magic.
Given that the book was written around 1918-1919, just at the end of World War I, the incorporation of the relatively new technology of the under sea boats into the story is not surprising.
This final tale begins with Dorthy and Ozma traveling to the far reaches of the Giliken country to the land of the flatheads and skeezers.
Well I do not want to spoil the story, but it involves a great collection of Oz's famous characters to rush to the aid!While I wish there was more Shaggy Man, because he is the bestest, it was still a fun story and a great ending to the series that Baum wrote.
But before that, we are going to delve into some of Baum's other tales.
My daughter (7 and a half) and I really enjoyed this final book of the Oz series.
We loved that Ozma was a main character and that the majority of main players in the story were strong (somewhat) interesting girls/women.
and had an air of "future" to it that was interesting.
Our only problem was that Dorothy didn't seem as plucky as usual, easily concerned and frightful for some of the book.
There was more bowing down to Ozma as your supreme ruler that seemed a new change as well.
We really loved the ending, it tidied things up nicely without going on and on.
This one was a little better than the others, and Ozma is surprising useful in this one.
There was also a lot of suspense in this one and an overlaying "dark-ish" quality to the story.
It's sad that it took Mr. Baum becoming so sick that he was able to touch on such dark themes and craft this tale so well.
Dorothy is still a stuck-up little brat and needs to be put in her place, dropping the book several points for me.
As did the abundance of telling in the story.
I think this will be my last ever visit to Oz. Three stars because it was one of my favorites as a child, but I had to grit my teeth to get through it reading it aloud to my son. We had a library copy of the Books of Wonder edition, and one nice thing was seeing the full color plates, which my childhood copy lacked.
I picked up a copy of this version since, for 99c, I could have the complete series along with "All the original artwork by the great illustrator W.W. Denslow (over 1,000 classic illustrations)", and to read the complete 14-book text at bedtime with all original color illustrations on my Kindle Fire knowing that there would be cross-linked tables of contents and no layout issues, it was worth my buck rather than taking them all out of the library.
#5 The Road to Oz (1909) READ August 12, 2014 – February 22, 2015 My Kid – The love magnet was pretty awesome, and Dorothy meets the rainbow girl and Shaggy man...
The story starts off with Dorothy and Ozma looking at Glinda's great record book.
Ozma and Dorothy decided they needed to pay a visit to this Co-Eeh-Hoo. Both the skeezers and flatheads were practicing magic illegally as well.
She did not care if Ozma ruled all of Oz. They were put in charge of the Lady Aurux who took them to her home and explained how Co-Eeh-Hoo had learned her magic.
That was not good because Co-Eeh-Hoo used magic to raise and lower the island, to send out boats and to extend the bridge.
I have a few things to say about this last Baum Oz book besides my usual, "This was really good," and "Can't believe it's almost 100 years old," and "Suck on that, Sponge Bob!"I feel like everyone has been looking in the wrong place for Baum's political and social commentary.
By the end of the book, Ozma, Glinda, and the good people of the Emerald City (Americans?) have ended the war, and given brains back to the Flatheads, making them equals to everyone else.
Interesting, not just following some pattern of "typical" Oz stories.
I stayed interested in how they would solve the situation.
And I liked how she said that all of the "legally registered/authorized" practitioners of magic arts all knew different forms of magic, so it wasn't like one person knew everything, but they had ways of combining their knowledge.
Maybe they should've started a school of magic arts, where each of them (Ozma, the Wizard, & Glinda) could each be professors & teach classes.
I liked how they all combined their knowledge bases to solve the problem of the sunken island.
Frank Baum finally puts Ozma and Glinda directly in the spotlight, and on that alone proves a worthwhile addition to the series.Frequently supporting characters and perhaps more frequently part of Baum's penchant for employing the classic deus ex machina method for his endings, these are in any respects the most powerful women in the stories.
She comes off less impressively, but also stands as the final example of Baum's impression of what practical magic looks like.
I only wish that there were more Oz books from Baum, because he has a 14 for 14 track record.ETA 2018: The Oz series definitely goes out on a high note in Glinda of Oz, as Baum gets back to basics and gives several characters their due.When we originally fell in love with Oz, it was a land of cruel rulers subjugating their people with magic – here, we return to that concept, and up the stakes.
ITA-ENG "If every one could wave a wand and have his wants fulfilled there would be little to wish for. There would be no eager striving to obtain the difficult, for nothing would then be difficult and the pleasure of earning something longed for, and only to be secured by hard work and careful thought, would be utterly lost." Mi aspettavo qualcosa di diverso dall'ultimo libro, ma non per questo ne sono rimasta delusa. La storia mi è piaciuta moltissimo e la trama è stata costruita in modo intel
Forse avrei preferito che il libro si concentrasse più sui personaggi già conosciuti (magari in festeggiamenti e racconti di storie passate) che su nuovi personaggi, per quanto siano interessanti.
Sono rimasta affascinata dai nuovi posti descritti e mi ha fatto piacere scoprire più cose sulle regole magiche di Oz. Si conclude qui l'avventura e nonostante sia triste, è giunta l'ora perché la serie è stata portata avanti fra troppi alti e bassi e questo è un buon capitolo con cui concludere il tutto.I was expecting something different from the last book, but I was not disappointed.
In the final installment of the Oz Series, we get to see Glinda and Ozma in action in a way we don't typically see them.
This story isn't anything special compared to other books in the series, and characters make decisions and speeches that are predictable (it's a children's book, so what more can we really expect?), but it's still a fitting end to the series.
My biggest annoyance was probably that a chunk of the middle was used to sum up all of the characters before continuing with the action.
This was actually a somewhat interesting book for Baum since he again changed the style of his writing in this book.
In all the other books Dorothy can seem like a rotten brat who is full of herself, a bully at times and just a very mature character with all the crazy adventures she ends up - mostly indirectly, sometimes directly.
In keeping with the rhythm of the book there were a few flaws one of which I found interesting was the color of Dorothy's kitten kept changing wherever she may have appeared within the story as a by-product (definitely not a character to be enjoyed as she was in her introductory storyline).
OMG I am finally done with these damn books (at least the ones by L.
Ozma finds out about a war brewing between the mountainous flatheads and the lake-dwelling Skeezers, and feels it's her responsibility to make peace between them and inform these backwoods people that she's their ruler.
The Su-Dic of the Flatheads tries to imprison them, and the Queen of the Skeezers does imprison them, then lowers the dome-covered city to the bottom of the lake, trapping them there when she goes and gets herself turned into a swan by the Su-Dic. No one knows how to reverse her magic, or get the city up above the water again.
Story:While visiting Glinda the Good Dorothy and Ozma learn that two people, the Flatheads and the Skeezers, are about to go to war with each other.
Not wanting this to happen Ozma and Dorothy set out to make peace with the two nations.
They have some adventures and mishaps along the way, but thanks to their friends and the good hearts of Oz's inhabitants everything manages to work out well.This book features some elements that are usually not present in the books of Oz, like two people threatening war with each other, and Ozma and Dorothy both unable to figure a way out of a certain predicament.
The final moral/ark is that Glinda decides the flatheads need more then peace to be happy, they have to have 'normal' heads with brains under their skulls like everyone else...
What's also interesting to me, is that the intro written by the author himself says that Oz books are to be 'modern fairy tales' that have no morals and no lessons to learn -- just fantasy and whimsy for children...
well, the 14th book most certainly had a moral, and it was a bad one!
The WHOLE book is about learning that lesson, so I guess what I'm saying is...
Reading all of the Baum books on Oz have given me a greater appreciation for one of the major voices in American Fantasy writing and the development of a genre in America.
Baum apparently thought this would be his last, so he pulled out almost all the characters that he had introduced and had them do their thang.
Mostly, I enjoyed this book because it was a bit more complex than others.
Yeah buddy.Frankly, I'm excited to have done all the books because it gives me a sense of Baum's worth in the literary world.
