https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/32445.Strange_Highways
A strong and solid, horror anthology! The general rating is an average sum result of the individual ratings given to each novella and short story contained in the anthology.All stories in this anthology are written by Dean Koontz. STRANGE HIGHWAYS  (novella)Rating: ***** ( 5 stars ) …how can there be any redemption if I knowingly turn my back on evil and walk away from it? This is the story who gives title to this anthology.A man who has failed in anything that he ever tried, while his older br
This is the story who gives title to this anthology.A man who has failed in anything that he ever tried, while his older brother has been always successful, returns to his hometown to attend his father’s funeral, however a strange road will lead him to a trip back in time, to try to avoid a bloody tragedy, however he doesn’t know how personal can become.Formidable tale with all signature elements of the good Koontz’s stories: classic towns, male writers, wonderful female characters, car chases, etc…
Koontzland Group Read - October / November 2017  Link to December 2017 Group Read Discussions: #2 out the 4 books listed - completedhttps://www.goodreads.com/event/show/...A lot of short stories to follow.1. Strange Highways - in a second read, I add it was a 20 year time travel. Back into the past, alcoholic Joey(40) goes to his dad's funeral & mets Celeste(17). She is a murdered/raped spirit. He prevents her murder & corrects his 20 years of "Bad road" mistakes. At the end, (view spo
Strange Highways - in a second read, I add it was a 20 year time travel.
At the end, (view spoiler)[Joey is the successful author of Strange Highways, with his new wife Celeste, who he saved & they now have 2 children (hide spoiler)].2.
Miss Attila the Hun - Mrs. Laura Caswell(teacher) shows people how to fight off "The Seed", the evil taking their minds.
Srange Highways - P.J. Shannon chases his younger brother, Joey, and Celeste Baker (girl found at his empty dad's grave, Dan Shannon).
At the end, what does the flame decide what to do between good Tommy and the scrape of dead Frank's hand.
Yes!
A 5 for a Koontz book!
I really liked this odd little story.
Okay rereading for the Koontz group...I'll probably do a more extensive review after the discussion.
So now I have the book from the library and while I don't think each and every story measures up to Strange Highways, which is a favorite "novella", I still like the book.
I plan to try and track it down (locally) and add it to my "home library." I think I'll let the book keep it's 5 star rating...
overall, I like it a lot.
" Strange Highways" is a collection of short stories by Dean Koontz and also the title of the first one of the bunch, a novella really, at almost 200 pages and the only one where the author explores themes in any depth.
It doesn't help that many of these stories were written when Koontz was just starting out and were published mostly in magazines but still, if you are a fan of his, I'd recommend this book if only because of " Strange Highways".
Satanism, deals with the devil, time travel, dysfunctional alcoholic - really? I was confused in the beginning of the book, and by the end dissatisfied. I won't be reading any more Dean Koontz. If I want horror (which I rarely indulge in), I'll read Stephen King.
Most time travel stories make me go hmmm, but Koontz plays with it in a good way and the reveal about what happened to Joey in the past and who was behind it was actually scary.
I loved this story from beginning to end."The Black Pumpkin" (4.5 stars).
I had nothing but pity for the character named Ollie when we come to the end of his story."Snatcher" (5 stars).
The main reason why I gave this one five stars is that for once Koontz didn't back away from a scary/terrible ending.
It's a good way to end the collection.
I again used the audiobook collections of Wilderness and Other Stories and Chase to aid in my traveling of Strange Highways.2015 Update- I finally got around to experiencing all these short stories.
The story "Chase" has also been made available on audiobook in a separate recording and the title story Strange Highways is also available separately.
I listened to the title story "Strange Highways" as an audiobook in 2005 or 2006.
In August 2010, Strange Highways was chosen as the Monthly group read in the Koontzland - Dean Koontz group.
I try not to give out five stars without really good reason, because in some way the book was outstanding, and this book of Koontz's short stories was outstanding and deserves the five star rating.
The two novellas are both some of the best stories of Koontz's I've read.
Another of the shorter stories is about an atheist who is more narrow minded and furious with people who are religious than any right wing evangelist who hates everyone who does not believe as he does, and its impact on his child is moving and sad.
This is a weird one.
A mixed bag of brilliance and utter embarrassment.
Koontz prevails in the opening story; a darkly religious tale with great characters and a unique setting.
Of the eleven other stories, only three shine brightly.
'The Black Pumpkin,' 'Snatcher,' and the highly emotional 'Twilight of the Dawn.' The rest rank from below average to downright humiliating.
Koontz is a master of plot, yet he needs more time for character development than a short story can offer him.
This is why he is at his best with the opening tale.
After the sixth story, the plane's wings are ripped off.
Koontz is always very hit-and-miss with me, so it's no surprise I found STRANGE HIGHWAYS a mixed bag, especially since some of these stories date back to the early 70's, when Koontz was known for writing sci-fi rather than horror.STRANGE HIGHWAYS (4 stars):The book's titular novella starts things off with a bang.
TRAPPED, on the other hand, feels like a Syfy original film just waiting to happen.BRUNO (1 STAR):There are a few genres I think Koontz should steer clear from.
This book is a compilation of short stories published at different points during Dean Koontz's career.Here is a brief synopsis and review of each short story....Strange Highways: This story starts out with the main character, Joey going back to the home town that he hasn't seen for 20 years to attend his father's funeral.
This story flows very well and doesn't ever slow down, from the beginning to the end.After attending his father's funeral Joey is haunted by some of the things he has done in his past, that being back in his home town help him to remember.
STRANGE HIGHWAYS AND THE AFOREMENTIONED.COMING FROM SOMEONE WHO DOESN'T REALLY LIKE SHORT STORIES, THIS BOOK WAS FULL OF GOOD ONES.
This is Koontz's collection of short stories. They are all awesome and some are very funny. The best was a very short story of a girl and cats. A must read!
After reading this collection I wonder why Dean Koontz doesn't write more short stories because he's very good at it. I like his novels as well, but this collection of shorter fiction is probably my favorite Koontz book. There's probably something for everyone in this collection, as the subject matter of the stories varies. I think the title story is the best in the collection and some of the stories are better than others, but overall I would recommend this to anyone who likes short horror stories, whether a Koontz fan or not.
Подхванах и последната новела - "Здрач на разсъмване", на чието име е кръстен сборника. Хареса ми прочетеното дотук - разнообразни истории, обхващащи почти всичко от литературата с остър сюжет - и крими, и фантастика, и хорър - бива! Браво чичо Кунц!
Jednak te dobre, niekoniecznie będące stricte horrorami opowiadania absolutnie przyćmiły te, które nie przypadły mi do gustu i nie wyobrażałam sobie wystawienia niższej oceny.Już na dzień dobry tytułowe opowiadanie ,,Trzynastu apostołów" absolutnie skradło moje serce i pewien dialog między głównym bohaterem a jego bratem uważam za najlepszą, a na pewno jedną z najlepszych scen w całej książce.
Potem zaczął się taki ciąg opowiadań, których tematyka i sposób jej przedstawienia nie przypadł mi do gustu, ale podejrzewam, że było tak dlatego, bo brakowało wystarczającego wprowadzenia do historii i w połączeniu z dość znanymi motywami nie wyszło to zaskakująco, ale raczej trochę absurdalnie.
Odd premise with perhaps an even odder ending.Miss Attila the Hun:A story involving aliens is a strangely unorthodox and comical way of expressing human's capacity for love and tendency for rebellion.
But you'll probably have mixed feelings on whether or not the story "worked" entirely.Hardshell:A fun little cat-and-mouse type tale, made much better by the unexpected twist.Kittens:Okay, okay, I change my mind.
Everyone who has read much of Koontz knows that his books can be quite funny in places, but the quirkiness of his humor really comes out here.
Overall, he's a pretty darned good short story writer and it's a very refreshing change from his typical novels.
This audio version is only the title story of Koontz's collection of short stories.In Strange Highways our protagonist, Joey Shannon, lives in Las Vegas.
Joey is called to his boyhood home to attend his father’s funeral, as well as the reading of his father’s will.
A storm begins (isn’t there always a storm?) and Joey is reminded of the last time he was ever home, and when he left.
(That sounds like a tag line for the book, but it isn’t, I promise!) Some benevolent force keeps moving time around, giving Joey another chance to make his past right, to erase those what-ifs.
This was my first Dean Koontz read.
This was mostly a good read.The short-story collection was an easy in for me to sample his work.
Some of the short-stories were great and some weren't.
I enjoyed the afterward on Dean Koontz's writing and his support for short-stories.
The stories are very deep in Catholicism.
Each story had great flow, it was easy to read, had clear descriptions, rich in page-turners, and the writing style asked the questions and clearly answered the What, When, Where, Why, and How. I can see why Dean Koontz has a following.
This is a collection of short stories and novelettes by Dean koontz. I must say that I enjoyed every story in it, some more than others. At first, I was puzzled by the numerous mentions of the Vietnam War until I discovered that some of the stories were written in the 60's. For those looking to experience Dean Koontz as an author, but not wanting to dive directly into a lengthier book this is a great choice.
This is a collection of Koontz's shorter stuff, along with a novella. It's very good. I don't think there's a clinker in the bunch.
As many of you know, I'm not really a fan of Koontz's more recent work, but I've loved most of his earlier writings and this collection certainly qualifies.
This is Koontz's only collection of short fiction, composed of the titular novella and twelve short tales (The US edition also includes another novella, "Chase").The novella is perhaps the best of the whole bunch; mostly because it's almost 200 pages long and simply has enough time and space to provide for an interesting plot.
However, the remaining stories are mediocre at best: "Hardshell" and "Snatcher" are short and forgettable, "The Black Pumpkin" is a simple halloween horror story without any frills or ornamentation, something like a child could write for a class assignment; "Trapped" and "Miss Atilla The Hun" continue Koontz's interest with genetic mutations but are simply not inventive enough to offer anything but a quick reading experience.
Strange Highways was my first experience reading Dean Koontz.
Strange Highways is a collection that consists of fourteen short stories.
I began reading Strange Highways by reading the shortest of the stories in the collection first, and then working my way up to the longer stories.
Koontz included two novels within this collection of short stories: Chase and, of course, Strange Highways.
I didn’t like Strange Highways, either, at first, but the religious motivation that Koontz created for the villain in the story was somewhat interesting.
However, I do recommend Strange Highways for an overall enjoyable read.
Enjoy!
This is a collection of short stories and novellas from Dean Koontz.
I believe with any collection of stories my rating will most likely be three stars.
I hope the number of stories I enjoy will be more than the ones I do not like.
There are a couple of stories that were fantastic and should be read by everyone.
There were a couple of stories that I did not enjoy but for the most part the number of stories that I enjoyed outnumbered the unenjoyable ones.If you like a short story collection I suggest reading this one.
And I've read a LOT of books from that era.
It was VERY cool getting to read some of his stuff I hadn't seen before, especially the earliest short stories.That being said, some people don't like short stories, some people don't like Koontz, but he has such a range!
Imagine that the same man who wrote Lightning also wrote Shadowfires AND the books/newsletters by Trixie Koontz.
WOW, that's talent.started this re-read in August 3, 2014 with Kittens and finished 8/27/2014Kittens 8/3/2014We Three 8/4/2014Ollie's Hands 8/5/2014Strange Highways 8/6/2014The Black Pumpkin 8/9/2014Miss Attila the Hun 8/11/2014Down in the Darkness 8/13/2014 (title reminds me of Boys Life...)Snatcher 8/15/2014Bruno 8/17/2014Hardshell 8/21/2014The Night of the Storm 8/23/2014Twilight of the Dawn 8/24/2014Chase 8/26/2014Trapped 8/27/2014
I just finished rereading this collection of short stories by Dean Koontz and it just reminds me of how much better I feel his earlier writing is.
While some stories were better than others there wasn't a bad apple in the bunch.
My least favorite was Ollie's Hands, I just found it stifling in it's lonliness, I also won't be in a hurry to re-re-read Bruno.
But on the whole this was a great book, most stories short enought to read while waiting in line for pickup at my daughters school.
This was my first Dean Koontz novel and it may be my last.
Wasn't terrible by any means but I was expecting a lot more based on the reviews and ratings I saw online.
The bizarre jumps in the logic from Joey along the way were distracting and kept pulling me out of the story.
I found the book way too full of cliches as well that just frustrated me and kept me from enjoying what could have been an interesting story.
Had the author spent a little more time on giving PJ a more believable motive rather than "I read a book on satanism and decided it was cool"...
This was not what I expected when I purchased the book.
It was a collection of many short stories written from years ago.
Many were very strange, many were on the far side of Stephen King as far as horror goes.
The first story was engaging and scary-strange-"Strange Highways".
The replays reminded me of the movie "Groundhog Day".
"Twilight of Dawn" was compelling.
It dealt with a father's lack of faith in God. It touched my heart and stirred my emotions to the point of crying.
The author has grown over the years and it was interesting to discover the improvement.
A short story collection of mostly early Koontz ("Kittens" was originally published in 1966; the first Dean ever sold commercially, while still in college). Two short novels are included; "Strange Highways" (first published here) and "Chase" (earlier published under his psuedonym, K.R. Dwyer). I like to become as familiar as I can with an author I'm a fan of, and that includes getting to know the author's early work. I like seeing the progression of the author's craft, character and story development.
Read by Jeff Cummings, Strange Highway is just over six hours of listening. Typical of Dean Koontz this story is hide-under-the-covers scary stuff. The plot is intriguing. A guy is stuck in a time warp, initially bouncing back to his youth to right some wrongs. I don’t usually even purchase books less than ten hours in length, and actually purchased Strange Highway simply because it’s a Koontz. Good story.The reader is a teeny bit intense for my taste, but whatever. It’s an intense, spooky tale … just shorter than I prefer. Enjoy!
