https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6869.The_Child_in_Time
His life is marked by reacting to circumstances rather than instigating things and thus he is even more adrift once Kate is lost.LanguageIt is full of painful ironies (Stephen making policy about parenthood, yet losing his own child, while a friend effectively gains one) and wonderful imagery: * In a lonely flat the "deadly alignment of familiar possessions...
I may have to read or skim to book first, to see if the ending is as McEwan wrote it, how I wanted it (eight years later, I don't remember what that was), or something else.

Back to McEwan.The reason why this book is included in men's must reads is because McEwan puts man into an operating room and slices him up to know what he is made off and bares his soul.
During these delusional moments, he gets to examine his relationship with his parents as a child in time, i.e., young Stephen who does not get old.
The departure to what I was expecting made this book a worthwhile read and Stephen Lewis is one of the must-know and must-appreciate literary characters in man's world.
The first part, in which the protagonist loses his daughter when she is apparently abducted in a supermarket, could have been the basis of a stronger but shorter story.
Instead we get a lot of pseudo science about the elasticity of time, a near future (in 1987 terms) in which the Thatcher government lasts longer, and a lot of stuff about the nature of childhood experience.I can't resist commenting on one ludicrous detail - not only can I see no way a sleeper train from Scotland would ever have been diverted through Suffolk, but even if it did it wouldn't arrive until much later than 1 a.m. and it wouldn't stop to pick up passengers at a small rural station.Some interesting ideas but rather too obviously flawed for me to go any higher than three stars.
Mmm, reviewing The Child in Time by Ian McEwan...I remember now.
Some do it by screaming bloody murder a lot of the time.
Mind you some adults I know scream bloody murder a lot of the time too.
Is that a sign of their inner child escaping?
My inner child says me no like this book very much (and then threw it on the floor while having a small tantrum).
True, McEwan wastes no time in describing the kidnapping in the very first chapter of the book, but after that the rest is about inane shit that has little or nothing to do with the kidnapping, guilt, loss and anguish that would normally occur after such a tragic event.
In true McEwan fashion Stephen Lewis (Kate's father) is a pretentious self-centered snob.
There was not an ounce of angst, despair, madness, or desperation you'd expect in a book about a child who has been kidnapped and whose parents are suppose to be in mourning.
Setting aside his formulaic plotting (barely plausible but not entirely ridiculous tragedy occurs, human relationships suffer - or don't - in the aftermath), why does McEwan throw in government ministers who wear short pants and freeze to death; or possibly-magical religious fanatics; or time-traveling, nearly aborted sons (although you gotta give him credit for spoofing himself in _Saturday_ for that misguided magical realism in _Child in Time_)?McEwan is NOT a magical realist - his realism is too sharp and creditable while his magic is too clumsy and inane.
So why disrupt wrenching, moving, difficult stories about the human condition with such silliness?
This was sublime writing that served as an antidote to a couple of books I’ve read recently which had technical problems.
It jumps around time, the writing is fine, the narrative grips your heart and moves; there’s clarity even as there is metaphor and no neat story, and there is absolutely no showing off.The Child in Time is my tenth Ian McEwan book, and the only straight-forward aspect here is the title.
Of the books that I’ve read, this is the most daring.
A child is stolen.
A child/man dies.
There is a battle between adult and child desires.
A child is born.
Since at the time I was personally in a state of mind that allowed me to relate quite sympathetically with his particular struggle against demons, I impulsively purchased a copy of the book later that same day.While I can't agree with him on the novel's relative merit, McEwan's look at both the struggles of a father who holds himself responsible for both the kidnapping (and presumed murder) of his young daughter and the subsequent fracturing of his marriage by the hammers of unreconciled guilt and unresolved grief, and those of his friend, a wealthy politician whose own childhood was abducted by a premature imposition of the demands and responsibilities of adulthood, is a haunting and sparse examination of the burdens of loss.Stephen Lewis, the grieving father, listless and trudging through the days with the aid of the bottle, finds himself (somehow) visiting himself as a lad, reviewing happy days spent with his army father and secret-harboring mother—for in the course of his temporal eavesdropping he becomes aware of the shadow his mother is nursing.
Stephen Lewis, the successful writer of a children's book, has had his life fall apart after the disappearance of his three-year-old daughter.
'More than two years on and still stuck, still trapped in the dark, enfolded with his loss, shaped by it, lost to the ordinary currents of feeling that moved far above him and belonged exclusively to other people.'Just who is 'the child in time?' Is it the daughter who will always remain three years old in her parents' minds/memories?
Is it Stephen himself who is stuck in his grief, unable to move on?
I totally adhered and understood the path of this couple completely dilapidated by the death of this child. Guilt, stunning, depression, the desire to get out anyway and indestructible hope of reunion that destroys everything.
Per alcuni tratti mi è sembrato un romanzo un po' datato, che non ha saputo perforare l'involucro del suo tempo; colpevole quella pur leggera nuance distopica che ha voluto conferire a una Inghilterra post-thatcheriana precariamente verosimile.
L'episodio centrale, quello che trasmette l'immancabile angosciosità dei suoi scritti, è la sparizione della figlioletta del protagonista in un banalissimo momento di disattenzione; da questo terrificante strappo alla normalità, McEwan ci accompagna nei percorsi paralleli del protagonista Stephen e - con più discrezione - di sua moglie, due strade che poi ritroveranno un inatteso punto di ricongiungimento.
An internal novel that plays on its title: the search for childhood lost or to be yet found, and time moving back and forth in waves, weaving past and present into one tapestry.In typical McEwan tradition, the novel hovers around a singular event - protagonist Stephen loses his three year old daughter in a supermarket -an event that send his marriage and personal life into a dark spiral.
As Stephen tries to grapple with his loss and revisits his own lost childhood, his friend and one-time publisher, Charles, gives up the good life of a successful businessman and politician to retreat into the woods in Suffolk and play on tree houses, even visiting prostitutes to have himself spanked by matronly whores.
It's not correct to say I finished this book; I just stopped reading. With one exception (The Innocent) I have put down every McEwan book I tried to read. I find his initial premises fascinating, but after 50 pages or so, I start to get bogged down in what I would call "over-writing," by which I mean writing for the author and not the reader. The story becomes relatively meaningless, and even the characters are subservient to the writer's phrase. I'm probably in a minority, but that's my take.
But unless we take the extreme measure, as Charles Darke does in this book, of opting out of adult society, we can never be children.
This necessity to be aware of time is a very adult thing, and it is what separates us from our childhood.The Child in Time puts childhood under a microscope and peers at what separates us from children.
(Although Thelma eventually explains the reasons, I didn’t find it entirely satisfactory.)I guess The Child in Time is a fairly interesting smattering of ideas, all of which have something to do with childhood.
Terzo libro che leggo di questo autore e, anche questa volta, sono stata catturata dalla sua bravura.
Questa è una storia di dolore, perdita e lutto resa ancora più tragica dal fatto che non parliamo di morte vera e propria ma di scomparsa.
Queste sono le idee che sorgono nella mente di Stephen e che lo tormenteranno per tutta la sua vita, anche a distanza di anni dalla scomparsa della figlia.
Attraverso la straordinaria prosa di McEwan viviamo insieme al protagonista tutte le fasi che susseguono questo tragico evento, l'incredulità, la rabbia, la ricerca, il dolore e infine l'elaborazione della perdita, tracciando un percorso di ascesa e infine di rinascita.
THE CHILD IN TIME.
Ian McEwan.
**.I never thought I’d rate a book by this author as low as this, but here it is.
Frankly, I had to put it down at about page 100, never to be picked up again.
I think I know what the author was trying to do, but I’m not sure I could explain it to anyone else.
It’s a novel about time, and it’s fluidity.
It is set in a slightly dystopian future that mimics the realities of our present time.
I’m sure that I missed a lot by doing so, but that’s the way it was.
This review and others can be found on BW Book Reviews.For children, childhood is timeless.
Another is time, linked closely with childhood in this story.
In short, it's a typical McEwan book that tackles multiple themes that don't feel they'll come together and yet they do.
And it's probably my favorite by him so far.The main plot follows Stephen and his grieving process after his daughter, Kate, is abducted from a supermarket.
Time stands in the way, yet childhood isn't a fixed point.
I know times where I've recaptured that feeling of awe you feel as a child.All in all, this is one of my favorite books by McEwan.
Primo approccio con McEwan, che dire? Questo romanzo mi ha fatto provare tutta una serie di emozioni contrastanti. Ora non mi resta che vedere la trasposizione cinematografica che vede come attore protagonista: Benedict Cumberbacht. *-*
Then McEwan dropped out of sight for a while, released a second novel I haven't been able to track down (so this transformation may be earlier than I suspect), and finally got major-label recognition with this, his third full-length offering.The Child in Time is the story of a couple whose daughter is abducted in broad daylight in a crowded supermarket.
I want to get McEwan back for taking one of the most promising careers in horror fiction and turning it into a career writing slice-of-life novels that culminated in a Booker Prize.
The Child in Time is in no way a horror novel, ofcourse, and it doesn't really classify as a mystery, but it's certainly not a slice of life novel.
Steven Lewis's three year old daughter, Kate has disappeared from his side during a brief lapse of his attention.This book deals with the deep emotional turmoil and sorrow which he and his wife, Julie attempt to endure and to continue their existences following this loss.Although at times the narrative seemed to drag and cause me to question the direction McEwan had taken, further analysis following my reading proved that it was quite evident.
He adeptly conveyed to the reader the deep sense of loss and mourning for Kate's family.The title, The Child in Time" relates to much symbolism throughout the novel.
In what might be Ian McEwan’s least-read, but perhaps best novel, The Child In Time, a children’s book author, Stephen, must come to terms with his three-year old daughter’s abduction and, presumably, her death.
Complicating this heart-breaking situation is Stephen’s wife Julie, who has hermited herself away in the countryside, and the fascinating and surreal parallel stories of Stephen’s own childhood, and that of his best friends—his publisher and his wife, a physicist.
“The child in time” is not merely a title or a play on words, but also describes the seemingly shifting forces of time and experience itself, and how one child lost in time might shift the timeframe of others.
Beware: this review contains some spoilers (although if you're thinking of reading this book for the plot, you should look elsewhere).I have no idea how Ian McEwan did it, but he managed to take a bunch of interesting events (the loss of a child, a car crash, a friend going insane and committing suicide) and make them booooooring.
Maybe the writing is absolutely brilliant.
I can't tell.
How can you make a car crash boring?
It was so bad, I actually laughed.I'm not sure if I'm ever going to read another Ian McEwan book.
Maybe Atonement.
I enjoyed reading this book. McEwan’s descriptions and writing style gave me the sense of being pulled into the pages, getting entangled with the words and jostled along by the narrator as though one were on a guided tour through McEwan’s mind; the characters being held up, described and critiqued then ‘swiftly, please’ to a different time and place – where the children of our world are considered, including the one that lives inside each and every one of us. Insightful and profound.
Three and a half stars.
For a large part very convincing, the horror of losing your child and the effect on the marriage of the parents is described in painful detail.
But there are elements in the story that seem too artificial.
What does the futuristic, Orwellian type of society have to do with the story?
And the entire story about the Darke character?
And the mysterious hallucination of Stephen in which he ‘sees’ his parents in the moment when they decide about his fate as a yet unborn child?
McEwan is playing around with ideas from the physics of time here but not in a very clear way.
Lewis?), most memorably the self-satisfaction when he describes the hopelessly naive young novelist, or maybe finally the way he neatly sums up the relationship between the male and female in a knowing way because he, Ian McEwan, possibly speaking as Stephen Lewis, is basically brilliant.It's probably just the mood I'm in, but what I really resent about it is that McEwan does want to have his cake and eat it too.
[...] There's no absolute, generally recognized 'now' [...] [T]ime as liquid, time as a complex envelope with points of contact between all moments."It is rather obvious that a literary work of art - any work of art, for that matter - exists only as long as it is understood by the readers.
From the plethora of possible readings I select the one interpretation that I like the most: the human time is the never-ending circle of birth and death in which the beginning and the ending are distinguishable only for particular people - who then begin or cease to exist - but they are just two arbitrary points on the immutable cycle.Stephen Lewis, a popular author of children's books, lost his three-year old daughter two years ago: she disappeared, kidnapped, from a grocery store.
Closer to early, surreal Ian McEwan than what we've become used to over the past few years and unnerving in the manner of his first short stories. I enjoyed it; I just didn't warm to the tone of his narrator. Interesting that it contains a fantastic set-piece ( a car crash) that is a telling foretaste of the balloon incident in his following book, Enduring Love. And the ending; very human and very emotional.
nel dolore, quello vero, si rimane soliMi ha preso meno di Sabato, forse per un ritmo più lento e uno stile meno logorroico, ma mi ha confermato nell'idea che McEwan sia bravissimo nelle descrizioni minuziose di eventi della durata di pochi minuti, che lui sa far ricche di tante osservazione cavillose ma realistiche.
Quella partenza poi, con la scoparsa della piccola Kate fin dal principio, che porta l'attenzione non sul dramma in sé, ma sul dolore e la capacità di rielaborare il lutto dei due protagonisti, è una scelta coraggiosa ma che l'autore ha saputo governare ben per tutto il libro.
Odd and disjointed. I liked the parts with Stephen and Julie the best. I'm looking forward to seeing Benedict Cumberbatch in the film.
