https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/8610067-sivagamiyin-sabatham
When I was pursuing my Master's degree at Government College of Technology, Coimbatore, it was happened to read Kalki's "PARTHIBAN KANAVU" (thanks for my room-mate a good reader then), ofcourse I started the novel by 7.10 pm as a short time pass until the dinner 7.30 pm.
Immediately I bought his other books, ponniyin selvan and sivagamiyin sabatham they are astounded then I switched to similar kind of novels and grew frantic in reading.
I don't want to review these three books (Parthiban Kanavu, Sivagamiyin Sabatham and Ponniyin Selvan)because these three books are such an extraordinary and exceptionally written in Tamil.
What a book it is... such a wonderful journey like other books of the story. The story is definitely taking some shape. Enjoyed reading it.Expecting unexpected twists in the last part.
At the pivot of the battle is Sivagami, the gifted bharatanatyam dancer - daughter of Aayanar, the chief sculptor of Mamallapuram and the love of Narasimhavarman.
Books 1-3 focus around the all consuming love between Narasimhavarman and Sivagami, Paranjothi's adventure and Mahendravaraman's strategy to protect his kingdom.
Book 4 diverges a bit to finish the saga with Narasimhavaraman coming into his own.
Sivagamiyin Sabatham is a saga of imperfect people.
Amidst all this, the 4th book, I felt seemed to change the basic characters a bit, especially Pulikesi and Naganandi.
I would gladly gift it to people I love!
Another epic novel. Gripping story as always. Off to Volume 3.
Hats off to the wonderful author to have thought of and written this jewel.
The characters are brought to life by the sheer mastery of words of the author.
A true classic and I am glad that I am embarked on this journey.What I loved best about this translated version is that it never felt artificial, nor did it feel contrived, which is usually the case when translating from a vernacular Indian language to English.
The history, the culture, the richness of the language was all felt in this translation, without it being too facile either.
Sivakamiyin Sabadham is a historical Tamil novel set in 7th century South India written by Kalki.
This is widely regarded as one of the greatest novels ever written in Tamil Set in 7th century south India against the backdrop of various historical events and figures.
Other characters are interspersed into the story seamlessly and the action moves at a furious pace with bits of historical facts here and there to enable the reader understand the characters.Never miss Kalki's historical novels and it would make you for sure to read it once again.
Such an enchanting story entwined with real history would be a delight to see on screen!If you can read Tamil then don’t miss this book.
I've never been to Mahabalipuram, Kanchipuran or Vathapi, but now I feel like I've been there for long! I've never admired some one dancing Bharatham before, but I did when Sivagami danced in the Kanchi palace! I've never seen elephantry bulldozing a fort, but I did when Narasimhavarman's army attacked the Vathapi fort!One must not stop with Ponniyin Selvan. Read Sivagamiyin Sabatham. It has got a lot.
This story was written in the early 1940′s revolves around the Pallava Dynasty, its kings and foes, the art and culture of the place and times, and of course, the people that made it colourful.
Straight at the famous sculptor Aayanar and his danseuse daughter, Sivakami, who were returning from her arangetram that was stopped midway due to the king Mahendra Pallavar having to leave after hearing some urgent news.
This naive, young man is sent on a mission, way before he can start his discipleship under the Aayanar, something which he came to the city for, in the first place.Under the able leadership of the king, art, music and culture flourish here.
What a book.That was one hell of a ride. One of the best series i have ever read. All four books deserved 5 stars. Those who haven't read it please do read it. I cant believed such an amazing journey is over.
கலகி அவரகள எழுதிய தலைசிறநத காவியஙகள அனைததையும படிகக வேணடும எனபது எனனுடைய நீணடநாள ஆசை. அதை நிறைவேறறும வகையில, Amazon சமீபததில தமிழ மினபுததகஙகளை அறிமுகபபடுததியது எனககு மிகவும வசதியாயப போயிறறு. இருபததி ஐநது ரூபாயககு, 1200 பககஙகளுககு மேல இருககும இநதக காவியததை மினபுததகமாய அளிதத கிழககு பதிபபகததிறகும, அதை விறற Amazon நிறுவனததிறகும நனறியோ நனறி
கல்கி அவர்கள் எழுதிய தலைசிறந்த காவியங்கள் அனைத்தையும் படிக்க வேண்டும் என்பது என்னுடைய நீண்டநாள் ஆசை. அதை நிறைவேற்றும் வகையில், Amazon சமீபத்தில் தமிழ் மின்புத்தகங்களை அறிமுகப்படுத்தியது எனக்கு மிகவும் வசதியாய்ப் போயிற்று. இருபத்தி ஐந்து ரூபாய்க்கு, 1200 பக்கங்களுக்கு மேல் இருக்கும் இந்தக் காவியத்தை மின்புத்தகமாய் அளித்த கிழக்கு பதிப்பகத்திற்கும், அதை விற்ற Amazon நிறுவனத்திற்கும் நன்றியோ நன்றி
ஆசிரியர.. அமரர கலகி..கதை நடைபெறும வரலாறறு பகுதிகள.. காஞசி, மாமலலபுரம, வாதாபி, மணடபபடடு கிராமம மறறும அஜநதா குகைகள..கதாபாததிரஙகள.. நரசிமமவரம பலலவர, மகேநதிரவரம பலலவர, பரஞசோதி, ஆயனர, சிவகாமி, புலிகேசி, நாகநநதி அடிகள, சதருகனன, குணடோதரன, கணணபிரான, கமலி, மானவரமன ..வகைபபாடு.. வரலாறறு புதினம..கதை.. மிக நெடியதும, சுமார 1000 பககஙகளுககு மேல உளளதுமான இநநாவலின கதை இதுதான " மகேநதிரவரம பலலவன காஞசியை சிறபபுடன ஆணடுவருகிறான. பலலவம யுததமிலலாத அமைதி பூமியாய, கலைகள நாடடியஙகள சிறநது விளஙகுகிறது..மகேநதிரவரமனின மகனும "ம
நரசிம்மவர்ம பல்லவர், மகேந்திரவர்ம் ப்ல்லவர், பரஞ்சோதி, ஆயனர், சிவகாமி, புலிகேசி, நாகநந்தி அடிகள், சத்ருக்னன், குண்டோதரன், கண்ணபிரான், கமலி, மானவர்மன் ..வகைப்பாடு..
இந்த சமயத்தில் காஞ்சிக்கு,காஞ்சியில் இருக்கும் புத்த பிட்சு போர்வையில் உள்ள வாதாபி ஒற்றன் நாகநந்தி அடிகள் மூலம் யுத்த அபாயம் வ்ருகிறது.
நரசிம்மவர்ம பல்லவன் சிவகாமியின் மீதுள்ள காதலால், ஒற்றர்கள் மூலமும், ஒரு முறை தானே மாறுவேடத்தில் வாதாபி சென்று சிவகாமியை திரும்ப வருமாறு அழைக்கிறான்.
சபாஷ் கல்கி..சிவகாமி என்ற கற்பனை பாத்திரம் மூலம், பல்லவர் ஆட்சி, மாமல்லபுரம் குடவரைகோவிலகள், வாதாபி போர், புள்ளலூர் கிராம போர், நரசிம்ம வர்மனின் காதல், அஜ்ந்தா குகை ஓவியங்கள், புலிகேசி காலத்தில் அவரது சபைக்கு வந்த சீன அறிஞர், பல்லவர் ஆட்சிக்கலத்தில் இருந்த சமய முறைகள், திருநாவுக்கரசரின் ஆன்மீக பணிகள் ..என அனைத்து வரலாற்று நிகழ்வுகளையும் ஒருசேர, சுவைபட தந்தமைக்காக...
சபாஷ் கல்கி...புத்த்கத்தை முடிக்கும் போது, ஆகா..இந்த பல்லவதேசத்தை பிரியபோகிறோமே, என்ற துயரத்தை நேயர் மத்தியில் ஏற்படுத்தியமைக்காக..
I started this book after ponniyin selvan. Just imagine how would anyone's expectation be after reading that epic creation. Failed to meet my expectations. The love in this book was not as heart melting as that of poongulali's or vanthiyathevan's. A must read, nevertheless. The war and stuff is good
Its a great book too. Probably I got very used to Ponniyin selvan or that's really close to my heart ,I was slightly narrow minded and partial while reading this. Sivagami's character is powerfully portrayed but for some unknown reason she did not have that impact Poonkuzhali or Kundhavai had in P.Selvan. Definitely a good read.
வரலாறறுப புதினம எனறால கலகி தான. நிகரிலாப படைபபாளி.
வரலாற்றுப் புதினம் என்றால் கல்கி தான். நிகரிலாப் படைப்பாளி.
மீணடும கலகியிடம புததகம மூலம அறிமுகமாகிறேன அதே கலததில[சரிததிர நாவல]...சில புததகஙகள படிககும போது அதன சமபநதமான நிகழவுகள தானா நடககும.அபபடி தான போல நான அஜநதா,எலலாரோ வை சுறறி பாரததது.இநத கதையின முககிய அமசமாக அஜநதா வின ஓவிய ரகசியம இருநதது.பலலவ காலததின கதை...அதுவும முககியமாக மாமலலபுரம [Mahabalipuram] சிறபஙகளை மறறும சரிததிர போர நிகழவுகளையும மையமாக கொணடவை...நான செனனையில இருநத 1.5 வருசததல .. ஒரே ஒரு தடவை தான மாமலலபுரம போயிருககேன.அதுவும அநத சிறபஙகளை எலலாம கவணிககவே இலலை...ஆனால இதை படிககும போது , மாமலலபுரம செ

The story is set in the time frame of 600 AD at Kanchipuram, the ancient city of Tamilnadu which was then ruled by Mahendra Varma Pallava, one of the greatest kings.
Mahendra Varmar's crown prince Narasimha Varma (also called as Mamallar due to his unmatched wrestling skills, the current town - Mamallapuram near Chennai is named after this great king) falls in love with Sivakami,daughter of the chief sculptor Aayanar.
Meanwhile, Pulikesi, an able and valorous king of Chalukya dynasty hears about the glory of Kanchi and sets his heart to plunder the city.
The historical characters in this novel are Mahendra Pallava, his son the great Narasimha Pallava, his army commander Paranjyoti, who later becomes a famed shiva devotee called Siruthondar, Pulikesi II of Badami and others.
The real situation in this novel is the war waged by Pulikesin II against Pallava kingdom of Kanchi during Mahendravarman's reign and the devastating destructions done by the Chalukya king and the revenge taken by Mahendra's son Narasimha Varman with the aid of his able commander Paranjyoti who burnt the city of Badami to ashes.
Thus, this famous novel ends as historic tragedy.
Never have I thought I would complete such a big novel.
I completely fell in love with tamil language.
For this I bow to the great author Kalki.
I am excited to see that he has written more.
Yay. Going for Parthiban Kanavu.The book is true beauty synonymous to ajanta cave paintings and its beautiful sculptures.
The best character is Mahendravarma Pallavan.
He truly is Vichitra veerar.
He talks and acts accordingly.
Sometimes I felt like whistling & clapping for his rajathanthiram.
NarasimhaVarma Pallavan, Paranjothi, Sivakami, Nagananthi, Pulikesi, Satrugan & Gundotharan, Aayanar will remain with me for ages to come.
Only Kalki can blended fictional characters - Naganandhi and Sivakami - with real history (though his reading at that point in time, it correlates well with Tamil literature of that time) the way he has done.Not withstanding that, the intensity he has built into Mamalla Narasimha Varma Pallavan and Sivakami is amazing.Though a deep love story, i was able to read and explain to my son without any hesitation. Such literary class is rare to see.
wow...!! What a History. this story won my heart and kalki's writing was speechless guys. must read this book. i love the character paranjothi, the friendship between paranjothi and king narashima was quite good and matured. paranjothi became a divine person and our king is loyal to the kingdom and his wife and his love. i like the innocent love of mangayakarasi. Like 'manimegalai' in "ponniyan selvan" sivagami would won the readers heart. sivagami was still sivagami(with tears).
Longest fiction I ever read... 1100+ pages and I can't believe I finished it and longing for more. This is something beyond to be reviewed. Kalki is an era and thanks to my friend who recommended to read this. Though it's a fiction, there are several historical facts which give preview of beautiful era of Tamilnadu. Love, revenge, patriotism, humour, affection...all in one. I am glad I read this book and I certainly will read all other Kalki's writings.
I have read all four volumes of this masterpiece and they are excellent reads. I would like to thank and congratulate Nandini for the outstanding work she has done in translating this novel and at the same time, maintaining the tamil flavour. Very strongly recommended for people who are interedted in Tamil history and literature.
Very lively and good characterisation. But thought it ended abruptly... And realised that I had read only 2 parts! On 3d part right now. Finished the 3d part in Oct 2012, and now the heat begins... Eager to grab part 4.
One of the best book i ever red. According to my personal opinion It would be the second best of kalki after ponniyin selvan.
One of the best novel to start reading about pallavas and cholas :-)
Excellent !!!
A must read book for all Tamil ppl as it shows art skills,love n more importantly the life of our ancient kings which s full of sacrifices. Kalki s master piece
Wonderful novel. Would like to read once again!
It's about narasima(he also known as maamallar). Mamalapuram is a very famous tourist place In tamilnadu. His name only named for that place. Then sivagami is a very marvelous bharathanatyam dancer. Sivagami and narasima was loved.because of some reasons it was failed. This book has 1247. Very interesting book. Other important characters paranjothi,mahenthra varmar(father of narasima varma).My first and best book ever

