https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3992598-the-demigod-files
(B+) 77% | GoodNotes: It’s fast-food fantasy: formulaic fun. Foundational founts of fruitful fodder, framework, and footing for future fiction.
La primera historia, The Stolen Charriot nos cuenta cómo Clarisse debe recuperar el carruaje de su padre Ares para probar que es una digna hija de la guerra.
Juntos, y con la ayuda de un dragón mítico de bronce que deberán ensamblar, estos semidioses trabajarán a contrarerloj para salvar la vida de su amigo.Esta historia me recordó muchísimo a Festus, el dragón que Leo ensambla en la segunda saga y, además, morí de amor por la relación tontita entre Silena y Beckendorf.
I enjoyed reading this so much, I loved the short stories. Gotta say that my favorite was the one with the dragon, just because it had both Percy and Annabeth in it.
I did not like this little addition.
Little ole me?Maybe the Disney thing wouldn't have left such an impression had the pictures included with the text not resembled so many a Disney character.
Annabeth looks ready for stores shelves as "Tomboy Skipper" (With New Adventures Included!).The stories themselves seemed a bit forced to me.
Those felt as though he was trying to cram as much action as possible with no storyline to back them up.I had high hopes for this little ditty, but I was let down by what seemed like a gratuitous, money-making ploy.
Cute. And now I'm ready to finally go onto HEROES OF OLYMPUS. WHOOTWHOOT. ------------I'm super excited to read this, and to go on to the next series. Percy is growing up and it's weird, but great.
Right, so this has to be the quickest read of my life...finished this in an hour flat. Trying to figure out what was the point of this book though :P
Yes, I know that the Percy Jackson's series was aimed at a younger audience.Yes, I will continue reading and loving them until I am a withered old woman.The Demigod Files is a collection of three short stories, interviews of the characters, fact files of the Greek gods, and activities from Camp Half-Blood. Percy Jackson and the Stolen Chariot=★★ starsPercy Jackson and the Bronze Dragon=★★★★ starsPercy Jackson and the Sword of Hades=★★★1/2 stars
As well as a map of the camp grounds and a few other features that are sure to please any fan of the series.In my opinion, the biggest bonuses of the book are the three short stories that it contains.
Now, I'm not sure if the stories are completely separate from the overall plot of the series and therefore have no bearing, or if they do play a role in the things to come.
If you are new to the series, don't start with this one as it will give away many plot details.
the interview part.. ahh. I. AM. VERY. HAPPY
Such an amazing adventure
Son Olimposlu'a başlamadan önce ara kitabı sıkıştırayım dedim araya...Bulmacalar ve diğer şeyler çok eğlenceliydi. :)
"I'm your friend Bob" xD
I don't know why most of my Goodreads friends rated it kinda low, but I, on the other hand really enjoyed reading it.I loved the mini-stories, especially the one featuring the Sword of Hades.
So while I was reading this short-story, I thought the reason why he had amnesia was because he fell in the River Lethe.
Especially Annabeth's.All in all, I think the book was cool.
The facts & mini-stories were all a good read and I had a nice time answering the quizzes, too.
I think I won't be able to read The Last Olympian tomorrow since I have to study for our midterms next week...
There is a story in this book concerning the Big Three's children, Thalia, Nico, and Percy and their adventure in the Underworld that's my fave. Full of humor, danger, mythological power, and the annoying gods. This is not a necessary read following Battle of the Labyrinth but it's a must-read if you're a huge fan.
Davvero carino; una lettura spensierata, molto scorrevole, veloce e divertente. Spassosi i raccontini che ci fanno (view spoiler)[ piacevolmente rivedere personaggi che se ne sono andati ed è stato bello vedere Clarisse interagire con Percy (hide spoiler)]Divertenti anche le interviste, che ci hanno regalato delle piccole curiosità.
"Percy, you’re a brave guy," she said. "Just take the compliment. I swear, it is so hard?" We locked eyes. Our faces were, like, two inches apart. My chest felt a little funny, like my heart was trying to do jumping jacks. - The Demigod Files
Recommended for age 4 - 10 because it has crossword puzzle in it
Rating: 3.1 (avg of all ratings)Percy Jackson and the Stolen Chariot - 2.5 stars: In this short story, we have Clarisse doing a test for her father, Ares.
I never found Clarisse to be that great of a character, so I didn't really care about her perhaps getting into trouble.Percy Jackson and the Bronze Dragon - 2.5 stars: During their game of Capture the Flag, Percy and Hephaestus's cabin leader come across the head of a Bronze Dragon, previous protector of Camp Half-Blood while trying to infiltrate Annabeth's team.
The interviews were cute and short, and I really liked seeing the map of Camp Half-Blood.
*and yes, you did read that write, along with the three amazing short stories that book has a lot of fun things in it for young (and older) fans to enjoy *and yes, the short stories were frigging awesome!Percy Jackson & The Stolen Chariot *Awesome adventure with Clarisse and Percy going head to head with two of Ares's godly sons: Phobos (phobias) and Deimos (mass terror/hysteria) *This also shined light on their interesting - to say the least - friendship and the slightly concerning dynamic between Clarisse and her father *Short and sweet, with tons of action!Percy Jackson & The Bronze Dragon *I loved the automaton in this; I mean, a fully functional, robotic, bronze dragon, crafted in the make of a Greek dragon!
Actual rating: 4/5 starsI got this for christmas from my lovely friend Patricia, thanks again! I really enjoyed it :)Lemme just tell you: it was so nice going back into the 'early' Percy Jackson days! Ah, nostalgia...This novella takes place between the fourth and fifth book of the original PJO series and tells three short stories surrounding Percy and his friends.  Percy Jackson and the Stolen Chariot I'm going to give this story 3 stars, it was fun, but the plot didn't really interest me. Stol
I really enjoyed it :)Lemme just tell you: it was so nice going back into the 'early' Percy Jackson days!
Ah, nostalgia...This novella takes place between the fourth and fifth book of the original PJO series and tells three short stories surrounding Percy and his friends.
Percy Jackson and the Stolen Chariot
I'm going to give this story 3 stars, it was fun, but the plot didn't really interest me.
I really liked it and I also found the plot to be more intriguing than in the first story...
(hide spoiler)]All in all, a really nice and quirky short story!
I loved that percy helped clarisse with getting the chariot back from her two jerk brothers phobia and terror, yeah those kind of brothers creep me out!
I loved that at the end percy admitted to clarisse that his fear was to not save his friends which included her.
I also liked the description of each God and some demigods.
The story of Persephone recruiting the help of the demigods was just not right!
She lied and for that percy and his 2 friends almost died!
I’m glad percy made hades promise he wouldn’t use this new sword on the gods.
This book includes three fun Percy Jackson stories, like the one about how the titan Iapetus turned into Bob the janitor of the Underworld. There's also a ton of cute little extras!
чичо Рик винаги успява да ми оправи настроението 👌😍
Много приятна книжка , с която се забавлявах и се наслаждавах още малко на историите с Пърси и останалите герои.
I'm still trying to find hints between Nico and Percy though. Oh and I don't know why Percy always expect Annabeth to hit him after saying something he thought was stupid
for an escuse he said he had to puke and it worked.he went to go help her and when it was over he explained that she was driving Ares chariot and her immortal brothers phobos and diemos stole it as a prank.
percy had to wiil it to stay just to let his friends to get throygh so whenhe tried to get through the water fell on him but he was gifted to stay dry in water.when he came out and caught up to the thief who had worked with a titan they threw the tian in the river that makes you forget everything and return the sword back to hades.
The dialogue is terribly bad, I hate seeing the greek gods with which I grew up talking like some american teenagers.
If you look past the terrible dialogue, the stories are not that bad, I particularly enjoyed the second one, about the bronze dragon.
Also I don't like the fact that the book has a first person perspective, having a young teenager describe the situations is bad, so bad...maybe a third person narration would have saved a bit.Overall, I wouldn't recommend this book at all, in my opinion it butchers the greek mythology with crappy dialogue, over-the-top cliches and stereotypical characters!
I'm going through his books slowly this year, and it was really nice to see these stories again.
Well, the stories not so much, but the extra content yes.
The three stories can be alternatively re-titled as Percy and Clarisse Can Be Somewhat Civil to Each Other (re: Daddy Issues), Percy and Charlie: The Buff™ (Not) Boys (re: Sneaky Girls Are Sneaky), and The Big Three: Annoyed Again (re: Stop Hurting My Children), respectively.The extra content includes interviews with the characters, questions to test your monster knowledge, trivia, and more fun stuff.Review written on 27 January, 2017.
Finally! Another book with Percy Jackson and Co. Percy Jackson and the Stolen Chariot, Percy Jackson and the Bronze Dragon, and Percy Jackson and the Sword of Hades were just amazing! Great! :)))Starting The Lost Hero soon... :))
