https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3217221-welcome-to-lovecraft
Layer by layer the story of why their father was killed, what happened to them during the time the killers were in their house, and how the family is coping, starts coming together to paint a heart-wrenching tale.
Because there's a secret history to everything their father had long ago forgotten about the house, and the youngest child, Bode, is starting to discover it all over again.And fuck!
It's just one of the better-written stories, horror or otherwise, out there.Highly recommended!Older reviews - (view spoiler)[Re-read 2015Thank you Dᴀɴ 2.☢’s  for letting me read your copy of this one!For some odd reason, I only gave this 4 stars the first time around.
This is a re-read for me, and it's my favorite graphic novel series of all time so I'm LOVING IT.
You can color me SOLD on this series. Here's another intelligent, strongly written story with which to pummel the perceptions of the elitist book snobbers, who sneer and snide at the graphic novel medium. To them, I politely say, "BITE ME"...because this is great stuff. I was excited to read this because it was written by Joe Hill, the talented offspring of a certain literary King who shall remain nameless Stephen. While I thought Hill’s Heart-Shaped Box was a promising first work, I really fell
Oh, there’s plenty of blood and guts here, and some deeply disturbing “adult-orientated” sequences, but these scenes are used as impact accessories to the story, not the central attraction.This graphic novel is creepy and unsettling in the way the best horror is.
In the aftermath, the four travel to the town of Lovecraft, Massachusetts, to live at Key House, the families ancestral home.
Series like Preacher, The Walking Dead, Criminal, Sleeper, Incognito, Sandman, Gotham Central...and now Locke & Key. Buy it...read it...love it.
I think most of my friends on Goodreads have either shelved this book to read or have read it.
I had to jump on that bandwagon but I was a bit scared.
You see most of them have loved it.
Except Erica But she is a hater rebel.
Usually books that everyone else loves and fangirl/boys over tend to leave me dry.I actually liked this one!
It starts off all violent and shit.
This guy is killed by a teenage nut job and the nut job is going for his family also, but they get away from him and he ends up
I think most of my friends on Goodreads have either shelved this book to read or have read it.
Usually books that everyone else loves and fangirl/boys over tend to leave me dry.I actually liked this one!
Then you have this hag/bitch in the well.
That hag/bitch turns out to be something way freaky.
I only requested two of these volumes from the library and I think that's probably going to make me mad at myself.Because there is lots of this:
And I tend to like that.
Fuck! ... That was an admiring “Fuck” not a “Fuck you” Fuck. Creative Team:Writer and Co-Creator: Joe HillIllustrator and Co-Creator: Gabriel RodriguezColoring: Jay FotosLettering: Robbie Robbins KEY TO SUCCESS  Welcome to Keyhouse, kid.  Was it weird to grow up in a house with a name?  You have no idea. I’ve heard a lot of good things about this comic book series, but......oh, boy! I never thought that it was THAT GOOD!!!This first volume was really awesome!The creative team, Hill & Rodrig
Both are working in full communication to present a great story.In a prose novel is quite easy to “hide” stuff from the readers, if there isn’t written down, it doesn’t exist in their minds, but in a comic book, where it’s a visual format, you need to be crafty to “hide” things, and this creative team in the first chapter, they played with our expectations and each time that you think that you know what happened, a new piece of info is shown, telling you that it’s better to enjoy the ride and avoid to make assumptions.Of course, it doesn’t mean that you can guess here and there, future things in the tale, if you read carefully.
When I first started reading Locke & Key a couple years ago, I kinda shrugged and thought to myself, "Yeah.
Great art.
Great storytelling.
Great characters.
I read a blurb somewhere that said something along the lines of, "Locke & Key is this generation's Sandman." I don't know if I'd go that far...
The truth is, this series does have a similar mythic feel to it, though its vibe is more Lovecraftian than folkloric.
Simply said: great series.
You don't need to know anything about Marvel continuity or folklore to help you understand the story.
I could, as seems customary in cases like this one (where twenty thousand million people—and a half—loved a book but two—and one quarter—didn't), put one of those silly "unpopular opinion" warnings at the top of this review.
And stuff.2/ People who feel offended by those who dare criticize a book they love can kiss my pincers.
I mean, the art sort of reminded me of a Gorillaz album, which in turn reminded me of my glorious youth, so yay and stuff.② I didn't give a shrimping fish about any of the characters.Even lowly barnacles have more charisma that this unlikable bunch here.
I already feel as if I didn’t read the same book as all the friends I trust who loved it.► I know that many readers loved the art, but it threw me off completely.
First because in my opinion none of the characters look like their ages (Sam and Tyler, teenagers ??!!) and that increased my general confusion in the beginning.
Now, on that aspect it’s really a matter of taste.My interest is running away...► As far as I'm concerned, the plot was slow, predictable in some parts (Sam's storyline, the Everywhere Key) and sometimes all over the place, with characters I still don’t know/care about.
an eerie old mansion on a woody estate, strange mysteries and dangerous secrets, a tangled and forgotten past, a san francisco family of three - father slain - seeking a new life on an island named Lovecraft off the coast of massachusetts, in a place called The Keyhouse.
characterization and narrative feel carefully honed, sketched with smaller strokes, intimate details parsed out slowly, the mysteries unfolding at an even pace, flashbacks that adroitly serve to both increase suspense and to render each character completely understandable, the narrative by turns sinister and endearing and magical - and always compelling both the quick turn of the page and the more contemplative search for hidden meaning in past pages.i really enjoyed this one a lot.
or on a rainy day in a creaky mansion on an island off of massachusetts.
I can't wait to read the second volume and find out what happens next.Ups:-Fantastic plot-Likable CharactersThey all had their own problems, and each one resulted positively in terms of enjoyment.
I enjoyed the graphic novel more because of that because it added a feeling of psychological thriller to it.-Decent ArtworkIt could've been done better, but I've seen way worse.
Maybe it's because of the graphic novel format, but I didn't enjoy the shifting that much.4/5 stars.I heard that the series improves even more, so I'll be reading the next volumes real soon.
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/I’m giving this 4 Stars because it’s the first in the series and I need some rating wiggle room  Fuck that, this gets all the stars.Locke & Key is proof that there is indeed a graphic novel out there for everyone. Being from a small town without a lot of a lot of exposure to the world of comic books and being a *gasp* GIRL on top of that . . .  I never bothered with the genre until I birthed a tiny little nerd and then I started da
It’s been a little hit or miss when it comes to my enjoyment of comics (same with novels - shocker), but I found a winner this time.
What begins as a tragic story of a family who moves across the country to an old family home mansion after a violent act tears apart their lives, quickly morphs into something a little more sinister .
Oh how I adore little Bode .
This is a graphic novel so you can ask for MOREMOREMOREMORE volumes.
I can’t wait to unlock some more of the story : )
This book was (I imagine) what it might be like to down a spoonful of sugar that was, unbeknownst to you, laced with Meth.What is IN this shi-at, Mary?!The sugary spoonful sounds like a great idea in your head.
"A house full of strange locks and doors with many keys that perform different astonishing feats.
A special key that can open any door and take you anywhere." Sounds great, right?
A lot of disturbing surprises.In fact, I almost think that this book was actually a spoonful of Meth laced with a dash of sugar.Meth is my favorite thing!I absolutely loved the little boy, Bode.
2012 Review:This is my second go around with Joe Hill's phenomenal foray into graphic novel territory (to prepare for Volumes 3 and 4).
Alright, superlative.Original review December 2008It's becoming clear to me that Joe Hill's real strength as a writer lies in the short story (and now graphic novel) format.
I was not a fan of Hill's debut novel Heart-Shaped Box; however, his short story collection 20th Century Ghosts has amazing depth and texture, and he scores big again with Locke and Key, the first in a graphic novel series that shows real imagination.
This will be a rushed review, because :1) I was too engrossed in the story to take notes, 2) I want to start on the second album as soon as possible.The first thing I feel you need to know about the comic is that it is definitely a horror story, not for the faint of heart. Yes, the protagonists are very young, namely the three children of the Locke family, but I hesitate to call it Young Adult material, given the physical and psychological torments they are put through right from the start. Ther
That’s actually the name of the mansion, on an island in Maine, but I’m also getting ahead of the story.The events start in California, where a couple of juvenile delinquents attack the Locke family leaving the father dead and the three children struggling to come to terms with the tragedy.
The mother herself emerges scarred and depressed from the ordeal, taking refuge in drink and moving the whole family to the East coast, to the mansion where most of the following events will take place.This mansion is a wonderful place to explore for young Bode and for the readers of the comic, thanks to the artwork of Gabriel Rodriguez.
However, when I finished Locke and Key, Vol. 1: Welcome to Lovecraft, I traded that "feeling" in for a Joe Hill fanboy membership.Good Gravy, this book was spectacular.Granted, I had my reservations before cracking the cover (which I think I literally did when I dropped it on the floor of the library).
"Is it going to be as good as what I just read?" "Am I going to be letdown?" "Is there anyone that doesn't know he's Stephen King's son?" Thankfully, 2 out of those 3 questions were answered.This guy literally came out of no where for me.
You've got a big creepy house with interesting rooms to explore.
You've got keys to rooms where magical stuff happens.
You've got keys that take you anywhere.
Yeah, so if this kinda stuff is your jam then you will probably like this book, I mean comic book, I mean graphic novel.
Joe Hill is very, very good at creating imaginative, expansive worlds and stories unlike anything else you've read.
I'm excited to keep reading through these.
Hey, you also get the added bonus of saying you read an entire book in one day until someone reminds you it's a graphic novel.
I only read WRAITH because it was included in the limited edition of NOS4A2.
I'm hoping Hill has more than one kind of villain in his toolbox, because this kind of bad guy gets old real quick.
In summation: LOCKE & KEY: WELCOME TO LOVECRAFT is a solid read with good artwork throughout, even if some of the art made me laugh when I wasn't supposed to.
I believe I prefer when Hill works with Charles Paul Wilson III, but that's entirely subjective.Final Judgment: Lock yourself in and turn the key.
This comic actually confused me quite a bit at the start. I was a bit slow to catch on but once I did, wow! I thought this comic was quite dark, interesting and gripping. It's quite an original concept and I can't wait to read what happens next. The illustrations and colouring were pretty good but I absolutely loved the covers for each individual issue. I would recommend this.
Joe hill does it again, conjuring up another tale of dread, macabre and supernatural goings on with a real gem of a main protagonist in the form of a young kid.The young boy in question loses someone dear to him and only hopes to be with them. Opportunity presents itself in the form of doors and keys, will he be able to unlock another realm of possibilities. Doors play a key role in the everyday swing of things. Stories have been written involving doors opening up to all kinds of opportune choi
Opportunity presents itself in the form of doors and keys, will he be able to unlock another realm of possibilities.
Stories have been written involving doors opening up to all kinds of opportune choices and fates since a long time back.
Doorways to other worlds and dimensions, doors were a key player in The Dark Tower series by Stephen King and there is a sort of door in a way in The Lion and The witch and the wardrobe.
I was checking youtube there was a trailer made from parts of a pilot episode of the adaptation of ths graphic novel.
It's a psychological horror story (not that the blood and gore isn't there in spades), but I feel like the characters are driven by guilt and tormented by what's missing from their lives.
Not sure I will continue the series, even though the story became more compelling as it came to an end (of part 1).
I do like my cheeseburgers, but I'm not sure I can survive a whole series on a diet of red meat!
Fair warning: I'm going to begin my next couple of reviews with more comparisons to food.
Maybe it will be fun or insightful or just plain silly, but I'm going with it!
Joe Hill is Stephen King's son and Joe has definitely picked up some of his father's best traits.
As they are dealing with their loss while exploring this strange house, Bode comes across a key that allows him to open a door that allows only his spirit to go through.
While ghosting around, he hears a voice in the wellhouse that slowly worms its way into getting Bode to do what it wants.
Meanwhile, the boy who killed their father is slowly making his way across country to find the keys that have eluded him.
★★★★☆And now, my second dip into the shallow end. I had so much fun with my initial venture, Saga, that I was more than willing to test out the waters once again.Well, you can go ahead and mark me down as two for two because this shit was fantastic! The only criticism I could even level is that the writing felt a bit clunky here and there. But honestly, when I looked back over a few of the sections I had an issue with they seemed okay. Once again the artwork is top-notch. Perhaps the spooky mans
★★★★☆½And now, my second dip into the shallow end.
The only criticism I could even level is that the writing felt a bit clunky here and there.
But honestly, when I looked back over a few of the sections I had an issue with they seemed okay.
Once again the artwork is top-notch.
Perhaps the spooky mansion is a little cliché, along with all the nods to HP Lovecraft, but overall, the storyline is very intriguing with keys that open to so many possibilities.
That's really all I care to say on the matter.
I'm really excited to see how this all shakes out.
www.melissa413readsalot.blogspot.comThe graphics in the book are phenomenal! I liked the story line as well. I love the character of Bode, he just tries to do the right thing. Poor little guy, all of this violence going on around him! I'm looking forward to reading these books and finding out what is the meaning to all of these doors. Where did they come from? You also have bad guys in the book you have to deal with, but hopefully they will get out of the freaking way so I can find out about these doors. :)
The opening panel of this book shows a door.
There's going to be a lot of doors in this book - it's one of the recurring archetypal symbols.
We can see the two guys at the door are hiding knives and a gun but the panel from Nina Locke's perspective just shows two goofy guys standing half in the doorway.
Full page panel showing Nina's cottage in the background and the truck in the foreground.
Like a lot of comic book series it wasn't designed to be read all at once.
It's a good rule for any serialised comic book.
Locke & Key, Vol. 1: Welcome to Lovecraft may be one of the coolest titles I've heard of in a long time.
Suffice it to say that Lovecraft is a place, not a person, Locke is a family, and Key refers to Keyhouse, a named structure in which much of the story takes place.
Yes, there is a strong backbone of supernatural horror, but no creatures from the Lovecraft Mythos, so far.
The horrors here are human, albeit *influenced* by seemingly other-world entities.And it's the humanity of it all that makes this an outstanding graphic novel.
I wasn't exactly stimulated intellectually, but the mystery aspect of the story did get me interested enough to look forward reading the second installment of the series.A family was recovering from a home invasion experience after the brutal murder of the father committed by the eldest son's school acquaintance.
The pacing is remarkable; only a few stories I've read and reviewed are as careful and as precise as getting that perfect balance of narrative, character exposition and suspense, and the first volume of Joe Hill's Locke and Key was definitely one of them.
I wanted to try at least one more before I gave up for good and Joe Hill's Locke & Key series came so highly recommended I couldn't pass it up.I liked this one!
Upon arrival, the youngest Locke, Bode, finds an interesting old key that, when put in a door, causes whoever walks through it to leave their bodies and become ghosts.And that’s where the story really starts to get going.
There’s a whole other story to be told of events that led up to this brutal murder that is eventually told.
I’m sure it helps that at the moment, I am adapting my own novel (The Way of Shadows) into a graphic novel, so I am keenly aware of the differences between the media.But reading Locke & Key — and I devoured the entire series in two days — was like volunteering to be taken to school, in both the colloquially negative and the more negative senses of the term.
Quite possibly, someone could read one of my books and say, “I loved it except for the part where they used magic!” If you said such a thing, you would just be missing the point.(And perhaps there are some very good explanations for why the characters didn’t use some of the keys that I simply missed.
I think he has a beautifully wicked imagination, and to be frank, I believe that even the man's grocery lists are probably strange.Like everything else I have read by Joe, the story line was simultaneously sad, unsettling, and downright odd; however, the icing on the cake came from Gabriel Rodriguez's gorgeous illustrations.
His guilt is positively tangible, as is the sense of loss their mother drowns in spirits, or the desperation to go unnoticed that his previously free-spirited younger sister falls into.Beyond the sadness, there's just a fantastic sense of dread from start to finish, and that's got to be one of my favorite qualities to Joe's writing.
Nope - still terrible, unfortunately.Three kids - an older boy, his slightly younger sister, and their youngest sibling, a boy called Bode (and the only one whose name I could remember, purely for being such an odd name!) - have their father taken from them when one of his students comes to his summer home and murders him.
It’s definitely cool that Joe Hill is following in his dad’s footsteps and writing his own haunted house story but I have to say he’s certainly not as great a writer as Stephen King was when he was a younger man and Locke & Key isn’t a patch on The Shining.
