https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/14778.Chosen_By_God
With nearly 200,000 copies sold in its 25 years, Chosen by God by Dr. R.
C. Sproul is a contemporary classic on predestination, a doctrine that isn't just for Calvinists, says Sproul.
In this updated and expanded edition of Chosen by God, Sproul shows that the doctrine of predestination doesn't create a whimsical or spiteful picture of God, but paints a portrait of a loving God who provides redemption for radically corrupt humans.
There is mystery in God's ways, but not contradiction.Sproul has an easily identifiable reading style with his short, pithy sentences.
He has always explained even sticky subjects where anyone could understand.
There are a few questions you must settle in your mind to determine whether what is written in this book is true.1.
Do you love Him, esteem Him, and desire Him to the point where you are willing to submit your life to Him, but also your will, your understanding, and your sense of right and wrong in exchange for His?3.
Are you willing to be content and at peace when God decrees something to happen that you do not understand, and do you trust that He controls all things and that nothing can happen outside his permission?If so, you shouldn't have a problem agreeing to anything in this book.
It (along with scripture, some great sermons, and the Holy Spirit, of course) completely changed the way I think about God, not only in salvation, but in all things.
When I started this book I had recently joined a reformed church and was really reluctant to affirm their doctrines on the sovereignty of God in salvation.
And i had many other practical objections as well (why do bad things happen to good people, etc.) When I finished this book (and it took a long time) all of my objections had been overruled and I was joyful about it!
This is the book that made reformed theology "click" in my head and my heart and the paradigm could never shift back.
Sproul does something in this book that I have not seen him do elsewhere: he uses diagrams.
In doing so he borrows from Jonathan Edwards: "Edwards defined the will as `the mind choosing'...before we ever make moral choices we must have some idea of what we are choosing...my inclination and my motives are shaped by my mind....I act according to those inclinations...Ergo:The will always chooses according to its strongest inclination at the moment" (54)." So in reality, we are slaves to our own free-will.In the next chapter he goes on to illustrate how any denial of original sin necessarily entails vicious question begging, especially if pressed on how society becomes bad.But what practical value does the denial of free will have for evangelism?
If he realizes that he cannot choose God, but is a slave to sin, then he has to come to grips with how DESPERATE his situation is!
Because we all agree that God is sovereign, many of the problems we associate with Calvinism are in fact just as much of a problem for Arminians (for example, how can a sovereign God who is completely good have created a universe with evil in it?).He's not afraid to admit when he doesn't have an answers, and this shows both humility and insight.
I think he makes a good biblical explanation of this.Although his explanation of original sin does not perfectly solve the problem of original sin, it is far better and more thoughtful than most.
This book was a life-changer. It was the book that slammed the door on my pretentions that men chose God, rather than Him choosing us. It explains the sovereignty of God in salvation better than any book I know of. I'm sure there are longer and more thorough books on the subject, but this is the best I know of to get into your soul and shake things up.
A staple of reformed theology. A quick and easy survey not only of predestination but of the doctrines of grace. R.C. Sproul is a man of great intelligence who can articulate deep theological truths in simple, easy-to-understand terms. By the end, I think I had more highlighted passages than not. :)A must-read if you want to deepen your faith and your appreciation for God's work in your life.
"The sin of fallen man is this: man seeks the benefits of God while at the same time fleeing from God Himself."
Reformed theology teaches that predestination occurs in the workings of the regeneration of heart, giving it a new set of desires, which then drives new and freely acted upon choices - chief of these, being the desire to freely choose Christ.Sproul summarizes:"What I call Edwards’s Law of Choice is this: “The will always chooses according to its strongest inclination at the moment.” This means that every choice is free and every choice is determined.""Our choices are determined by our desires.
This is what we call self-determination, which is the essence of freedom."So, does fallen, dead, depraved man have a natural desire in and of himself to choose Christ?
I strongly recommend that you read Chosen by God with an open Bible and an open mind if your doctrinal stance is represented by any (or all) of the following statements:- God gave man a free will; it’s our choice whether or not to believe and accept Christ.- Foreknowledge means that God looked ahead, “through the corridors of time” to see who would choose Him, and those are the ones He elects to save.- If God is sovereignly in control of everything, then we are nothing but puppets.- Unless we freely choose to love God, it’s not authentic love.- It wouldn’t be fair if God chose only some people to be saved.- Jesus died on the cross to make salvation a possibility for everyone.- How can God hold anyone accountable for their sin, when they were born with it and have no choice or ability to do anything about it?In this short book, Dr. Sproul addresses each of these statements.
In his book, Chosen By God, Dr. Sproul puts forth the best argument for a Calvinistic interpretation of scripture that I have ever read.
A God that allows one's eternal destiny and salvation to be left up to a combination of sinful human "free will" of choice, and an apparent randomness or luck (when and where were you born?
and after reading this book with an open mind, they have come away humbly realizing that scripture does plainly teach this, and that the "choice" to be made is: do I believe what I want to believe is true...
Dr. R.C. Sproul's Chosen By God is an incredible presentation of the Reformed view of sovereign predestination.
Reformed theology is built on the biblical understanding of man's depravity; a depravity that extends to the totality of his being.
Those skeptical of Calvinism's understanding of predestination; those who believe it presents God as unloving need to take the time to mull over Dr. Sproul's words.
Chosen By God is written in Sproul's easy-to-comprehend format; he deals with skeptics and defends the Reformed understanding with ease and clarity.
There's no getting around Dr. Sproul's passion for Reformed theology and, particularly, the doctrine of predestination.
God is love.
A very wonderful, and insightful book. It really does a great job of putting our faith into perspective. 'Chosen by God' by RC Sproul is a very good explanation of what we believe and why we believe it.
For a topic as complex as predestination, Sproul does a great job making it both understandable and easy to follow. I would recommend this book to anyone interested in challenging/strengthening their views on the subject matter.
The book that the Lord used, apart from scripture, to show me His marvelous grace.
Oh, hang it all. I admit it, this book convinced me. But I don't have to like it!
Life changing iconic book on Reformed Theology.
Great for beginners. Systematic and clear.
See also Rom 8:7-9.John 3:16 just says those who believe will be saved; it doesn't say who will believe.Adam's Fall and MineGod ordained the Fall in the sense that He allowed it, but not in the sense that He coerced it.Spiritual Death and Spiritual Life: Rebirth and FaithHuman Corruption (Total Depravity)Total depravity means our whole humanity is fallen (will, heart, mind, body); sin touches the root of our lives.
It is irresistible in the sense that it achieves its purpose."Rebirth causes a person to view Jesus as irresistible; they willingly desire to follow Him.Is Predestination Double?God actively intervenes in the lives of the elect to ensure their salvation.
Actual Ratings: 4.5
There are a few times when Sproul raises a question and then says simply, "I don't know..." I commend him for not stringing together nice-sounding arguments that he doesn't really believe will hold water.
Still, the question on page 25, "Why does God only save some," has a more satisfying answer in, say, the approach of C.S. Lewis in "The Great Divorce." This option isn't available to him, though, since Lewis is what Sproul would call "Arminian." I think several of these questions find answers in the Arminian viewpoint, which leads me to believe an Arminian book on this topic would capitalize on these questions and play the "I don't know" card for the difficulties answered by 5-point Calvinism.
He also explains his (and most people's) personal struggle coming to terms the seemingly contradictory duality of God's sovereignty via predestination and man's free will - making the argument that the two are not polar opposites and, in fact, fit neatly with each other.As others have said, I especially liked that the author wasn't afraid to write "I don't know" as his answer to questions like why God ordained/permitted the Fall (more specifically, he said that he didn't know why but that it must serve a good that we can't know).In short, this book provides a good overview of a deeply complex subject area.
This is a great resource along side the word of God. We are chosen by God (Predestination) which is such important doctrine of the Christian life.
He himself had trouble with this doctrine and explains why.
However, with God, we cannot have Godly desires because of our sinful nature.
There is so much to this, so in closing, I would like to add that this is important because it determines what "God" we embrace.
God's word says that he will give Mercy to whom he will give mercy.
It is because of his mercy, we can have salvation.
Salvation is all from God thru Jesus Christ.
Once, I had a dinner with some of my good friends.
Passionate discussion, if not debate.My friends and I had different views of predestination, and each one kept pushing for his own view.
But the problem is: None of us really know what we’re talking about!Finally, I read a copy of R.C. Sproul’s Chosen by God (Tyndale, 1986).
The book introduced me to the topic of predestination (the Reformed view of it, at least).
When I began reading the book, I immediately knew that I am diving into a difficult topic.
So help me, God!Read the rest of the review at Zoy Sauce Etc.
Enjoyed the lively argument but took issue with several key points.True freedom must include the freedom/capacity to obey.It is not clear to me how we should expect that the infinite Father God has given us commands that exceed our capacity to obey.In Calvinism, it seems you are free to choose A or B, but A is not possible.
If this is the meaning of free will, I think that I am not a Calvinist.
Is God big enough to offer Himself to those He knows will reject Him?
God is not obliged to love all humankind...
In Chosen By God, Sproul deals with the major points of Calvinistic soteriology in a clear and concise way. Written for the layperson, this book does a great job of answering objections and exegeting some difficult passages in a style that is both understandable and engaging. It's lengthy enough to give this issue a serious discussion and brief enough not to scare away the average student of the Bible.I heartily recommend this book for all: Arminians, Calvinists, and those who want to think they are neither.
I’m 50 years old, I’ve been in ministry for almost half that, and I am only just now discovering RC Sproul. How did that happen? I really, really enjoyed this book. He writes like an American, reformed CS Lewis. By that I mean he has the ability to take complex ideas and make them simple and memorable and winsome. I can’t wait to read another RC Sproul book. This one, on the doctrine of predestination, was outstanding.
"They say there is nothing more obnoxious than a converted drunk. Try a converted Arminian. Converted Arminians tend to become flaming Calvinists, zealous for the cause of predestination. You are reading the work of such a convert"-R. C. Sproul. This book logically lays out reformed theology in beautiful simplicity while addressing the popular oppositions and resolving them with the truth of God's word.
What a fascinating, in-depth look into the idea of predestination. it's chock full of theology and reads like a textbook explaining the differing views of predestination, their shortcomings and the things they get right, and what the whole thing means for us as Christians. Sproul makes a wonderful case for the beauty and love of God hidden in such a complex and confusing doctrine!
An excellent book. There is no doubting what the Lord explicitly teaches through the Holy Scriptures and Sproul has skillfully helped bring this to light while also addressing many objections and questions that are raised in thinking through this, at times, difficult doctrine of election. I did go to sleep several nights while reading this book with smoke coming out of my ears!! Very helpful.
