https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/276203.The_Blunderer
3.5/5. Patricia Highsmith explores some really interesting questions concerning our conception of guilt, blame and justice in this book. It was fascinating to get into the protagonists' confused and twisted minds and there was an almost hypnotic, claustrophobic quality to the writing.
Walter Stackhouse is a sympathetic protagonist as is his girlfriend Elli.
You like him, root for him, even feel compassion for Kimmell who really has killed his wife (Stackhouse is suspected in what looks to be a copycat murder).
Highsmith understands all too well the terrain of marriage gone bad, and the interplay between detective, murderer and innocent accused (who feels guilty regardless) is fascinating and believable.
As in much of Highsmith territory, there is class warfare as well, but it's the terrain of guilt, innocence and complicity that she explores most fully here: who really is guilty, who among us is really blameless?
Nobody does psychological suspense better than Highsmith. People who overestimate their own intelligence are left twisting in a maze of stupid blunders, lies, half truths and both real and hypothetical crimes. For Walter Stackhouse, innocence is no protection when his life is unraveled by the actions of a jealous and vindictive murderer and a dogged detective. The narration by Robert Fass of the audiobook was very good.
This novel is absolutely vintage Highsmith. It starts with a murder and ends with a murderous debacle. The atmosphere of the novel is claustrophobic throughout with the stage getting smaller and the options more limited as the action progresses. It is a novel of guilt and violence with some truly nasty moments.
Unlike Kimmel, Walter only thinks about getting rid of his wife, and on reading the story of Mrs. K's death, becomes obsessed with the way the job was done.
While Kimmel sails along sure of himself as far as the law is concerned, Walter isn't so fortunate -- he is the titular "blunderer," whose stupid mistakes he's made along the way are enough to cause havoc for Walter in so very many ways.While there are definite similarities between this novel and Strangers on a Train (as in an examination of guilt, the psychology of the individual, and the doppelganger-ish, growing obsession between two men), unlike SOAT, the ending of this one is a definite shocker.
I wrote a fabulous review and GR lost it. Boo!!! This happens a lot and always with what I think are my best reviews! :-( I've learned my lesson, but tonight decided to write on the site. Never again!Just know I have fallen head over heels for Patricia Highsmith and am so glad she has a huge backlist. I just hope I don't read them too quickly!
I have always loved Patricia Highsmith's novels and this one is no different.
She has such a way of intertwining plots and making you root for the bad guy.
She makes an improbable situation most probable.
But that is the magic of Highsmith, and she spins her spell well in this novel..
It has an existential power, a nightmarish texture, and the bite of the best dark comedy.It is difficult for me to say anything negative about Patricia Highsmith's work.
In this case really bad luck complicate (and wrecks) the copycat's life.
There is something about my obsession with Patricia Highsmith that is itself downright Highsmithian, made up as it is of equal parts fascination and revulsion.
The Blunderer sounds that theme, as its protagonist, Walter Stackhouse, develops an obsession with a repulsive murderer.
Highsmith’s psychological insight and gift for creating tension in the most quotidian events made The Blunderer a halting read for me; I couldn’t stand more than about half an hour of it at a time.
But in between, I couldn’t stop thinking about it.
Reading about an idiot has never been more infuriating, but in a good way. I kept turning the pages in the hopes the protagonist would acquire some common sense from somewhere. Anywhere. The book made me want to scream at the protagonist. I pulled out some of my hair in frustration. I think I had an arterial infarc in my brain, which I can't afford to let happen. The Blunderer is all that and more but not in a funny way; In an incendiary way to be sure. Not for those with heart conditions or high blood pressure.
O melhor livro policial de Patricia Highsmith que li até ao momento. (O melhor livro da autora que já li é o volume 'Pequenos Contos da Misoginia', que é hilariante.) Prende-nos do princípio ao fim. Mais do que um policial, é um thriller psicológico com personagens muito, mas muito, bem desenhadas.
Lo de Highsmith es una cátedra de construcción de personajes. Todos son necesarios y cada uno es más humano que otro. Mención especial al tratamiento y reacciones que provoca el alcohol en cada uno de sus personajes. El 'background' de la escritora hizo que fuera mi obsesión a lo largo de la lectura. Mi único reparo es el investigador del caso, pero que igual logra su cometido. Buen manejo de la tensión y la intriga.
BOOK SIX: Mid 20th Century American Crime Readathon: UPDATE: There is no doubt writers read much of other author's works.
And Highsmith gives Chandler a big ol' slap for his ridiculous plot idea of a lending library for porn books in his "Big Sleep" novel.
I like to feel I'm there with the characters and am visiting a specific place but that doesn't happen here.Overall: This is Highsmith's brilliance: she flips the crime genre on its head, and I've already given her a '5' for plot.
If you've read a Ripley book, and found yourself liking a psychopathic murder, you know what I mean.
I love Patricia Highsmith!
She is such a great writer and so good at making you empathize with the seedier characters in life.This was a page turner and easy read that I really enjoyed about a murderer and a non-murderer who causes a lot of problems for himself when he reads about a murder in the paper.The plot is interesting and suspenseful and moves really quickly.
The characters are realistic and fully developed and you really feel like you know them.
That's what I love about Highsmith: she's so good at inner dialogue/thought/reflection that give the reader such a deep insight into the characters.
Ah, the mid-20th century. When you come down with the flu, your wife assembles around you everything you will "need:" Cigarettes, matches...The doctor pays house calls and will pump your stomach in the comfort of your own bedroom.Completely middle class people have servants who fix their dinner and lay out their clothes on the bed so they can pack for trips.Suicide is a crime. If you survive your suicide attempt, you could be in trouble with the law!As with most Highsmith, there's a big "ick" factor here. Her characters are largely unappealing, even the ones who aren't entirely terrible.
I haven't read much Highsmith, I'm afraid, and have often been told that's a big mistake.This book may surely be used as evidence against me, as it shows a mastership of the art on every level: meticulously structured, with an ever increasing pace, and wonderfully imaginative, it's a perfect example of a thriller that isn't clichéd at any point.
Another great Highsmith novel. Three protagonists, Stakehouse, Kimmet and a young policeman goading them to 'admit' the truth. I am still replaying the end in my mind. I am still relatively new to her books. She is an incredible writer and takes you right into the minds of the main characters.
This one I really liked the story of the guy accused of being a copycat killer. Almost felt sorry for him
Por un momento si llegue a pensar que Walter había tenido un episodio de amnesia o algo por el estilo y había matado a su esposa, y sus propias actitudes erróneas (como ocultar evidencia) eran producto de eso.La relación de Walter con Ellie, más que enamoramiento fue un detonante de revancha ante los comentarios de Clara.
Nunca pensé que esa relación iba a prosperar, y en efecto se fue a pique.Corby es un personaje hostigante, su misión quebrar emocionalmente y hacer dudar a Walter.
Nunca me cuadró su bravuconería con Kimmel (el asesino de Helen), ni que este se dejara avasallar de esa forma.Walter me inspiró pena, un personaje que de "tenerlo todo", acabo sin nada.
Highsmith sets the stage so well for literary greatness with rich dialogue and detail about Clara and Walter's unhappiness, only to abandon it all to the easy way out and the demands of the pulp-reading masses for blood.
There is also a rich context with Kimmel and his wife that could have been developed along with the Walter/Clara story.
The story has two fascinating themes that could have been developed simultaneously in a powerful novel about despair, frustration, unhappiness, and the difficulty or even impossibility of many human interactions without being overwhelmed by the standard and generic dominant theme of murder and cops.
The story opens with the depiction of a brutal murder of a woman who has disembarked from her bus at a rest stop.
As the story continues, the two finally separate: Clara takes a bus to visit her sick mother in Harrisburg.
He reaches the first rest stop in Allentown, but is unable to find his wife among the bus passengers who got off for their rest break.
He was the husband of the woman killed at the beginning of the story.
The interaction between the two husbands and an over-active police detective who is pursuing both men takes up the rest of the story.
It kind of reminded me of the end of "Rear Window," in that it was exactly what you would think would happen, and not particularly interesting anymore by the time you get there.
Or...I don't know, the assumed victim actually killed her husband and took his identity!
I mean, anything!) at the same time I know that's not the point.
It wasn't a mystery, it was just a situation that got worse and worse, and then ends even more badly.
Kind of like a Coen brothers movie, but not as funny.
Another enthralling journey of suspense from Patricia Highsmith.She employs the unusual device of de
Wow, it was not funny, not exciting, not intriguing, and definitely not worth reviewing any further.
It seems a bit churlish to be irritated by the blunderings of a character in a novel called "The Blunderer" - but seriously Walter, get it together! So it's pretty infuriating and the end is rather throw-away but it's a Highsmith, and so exerts a strange fascination on the reader. Even at her most outrageous moments, when things strain credulity, she stares you straight in the eye and dares you to call her a liar. This is in no way a 4 star book, but she gains extra points for how strangely compelling her writing is.
This book first published in 1954, plays out like a Twilight Zone episode. Got at kick out of the characters, Walter and Clara. Their relationship while strained, brings some humor to Clara's tart tongue and of course milk toast Walter, was fodder waiting to happen. Soooo.....basically the tale of two wives somewhat deservingly killed and with a twist only that genre can deliver. But the end had me guessing and scratching my head. And that is a good thing.
It's a good story about what could have happened to a suspect in a pre-Miranda era. The two male suspects, whose wives died similarly, are put through mental torture by an overzealous detective. How it affects one suspect's life in particular is both riveting and realistic. I liked the story, but it wasn't exactly a stay up all night read.
A thoroughly up-to-here husband buys a movie ticket, seeks out a familiar face to acknowledge his presence, then sneaks out the back door of the theater.
His wife is off to visit her mother and he intercepts the bus at a midway stopping point.
Meet poor, poor Walter Stackhouse, beaten down by the moody love of his life, who is systematically alienating him from his best friends.
Walter loves Clara, though, mostly because she’s a hottie matottie.Anyway, Walter can’t leave this murder case alone.
Never mind that we, the reader, know he followed the bus but didn’t see her at the stop.
As I started reading, I went to Wikipedia to remind myself of the specifics of Highsmith's life.
More fond of animals than she ever was of human beings, Highsmith had...issues and, as they say, 'demons'.
The novel also precedes Hitchcock's 1956 film 'The Wrong Man' - in which an innocent man is pegged as guilty.
But with Hitchcock, the mistaken identity only affects the protagonist's immediate family life; in Highsmith's novel, the calamity is complete and seeps into every area of the main character's existence.
Highsmith may have spent most of her life on the dark side - but she understood quite a bit about the human condition.
Siempre dotada con un buen ingenio para armar escenarios, no me molestó la sucesión de hechos en la novela, sino la personalidad de cada personaje: la torpeza y la cobardía de Walter, la bruteza animalesca de Kimmel y la arrogancia del detective Corby.***Ligeros spoilers***La historia se trata sobre dos esposas muertas en idénticas circunstancias pero por causas muy distintas.
Esta torpeza no es digna de un persona de Highsmith, puesto que a partir de allí comienza el final de Walter frente a las insistencias de Corby.
What a good, good story. I loved the edginess! I had no idea how this was going to end!
