https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/34459.Metaphors_We_Live_By
They make the very interesting point that virtually all (that might actually be all, by the way) of the metaphors we use are used to help us understand something abstract (like love) in terms that have a concrete awareness for us, (like war – love is a battlefield, or a journey – the course of true love never ran smooth or a container – my heart is bursting open with love for you).
She said that once she had read this book she couldn’t help thinking about metaphors and what they said, how they were like a window into the souls of what people actually believed.
This is a difficult idea to hold onto, mainly because it suggests that none of us really knows what we might be talking about.The way this works in daily life is by our inevitable and pervasive use of metaphors to describe the world and what we’re doing in it.
And “the essence of metaphor is understanding and experiencing one kind of thing in terms of another.” Of course, the ‘things’ in question are always other words.
We’re stuck with argumentative combat.The pervasiveness of metaphors really can’t be overstated.
So-called Conduit metaphors form composites which may hide their origins in language rather than real things.
This book is very frequently quoted by linguists - I just looked it up on Google Scholar, and found a staggering 13517 citations.
Nearly everyone has at least glanced through it, and the ideas have permeated the field.
There was a nice Lakoff-related moment during one of the invited talks at a conference I attended during the summer.
The speaker, who was giving an excellent presentation on loan-words related to food, hadn't been able to resist putting in a slide where he glanced at an interesting side issue.
Many people nodded appreciatively.If you aren't familiar with Lakoff's work, just think about that for a moment.

For instance, if context is required to extract the ideas, then the ideas cannot be seen as self-contained objects.These metaphors we use are only partial matches for the underlying concepts they represent.# Higher-level metaphorsSome higher-level metaphors also exist.
For instance, down is always sad and down is always negative across concepts (sad/sick/sleeping).These higher-level metaphors are based on experience and therefore vary from culture to culture.
Following physical manipulation, an object might move, change, evaporate, etc, and we can then develop causation as a metaphorical concept from that initial experience.
This book changed my life.
It has short chapters, 5-10 pages.
you can get most of what you need from chapters 1-3 and the epilogue.
It explains the structure of metaphor.
Turns out, at least for me, that theory is metaphorical, language is metaphorical, life itself is metaphorical.
In this recognition, I found a way to calm down, to converse with my enemy, to find the overlap between anger and peace, laughter and crying, life and death.
(Lakhoff's work on metaphor and war was good in the 1990s -- first invasion of Iraq.
That new insights can emerge from using such a scheme is illustrated when the authors take up Shakespeare’s variant of the metaphor: “Life’s … a tale told by an idiot, full of sound and fury, signifying nothing.” It highlights how under certain conditions the presumption of meaning from thinking life as a story can be false.
We understand our experience directly when we see it as being structured coherently in terms of gestalts that have emerged directly from interaction with and in our environment.
We understand experience metaphorically when we use a gestalt from one domain of experience to structure experience in another domain.From the experientalist perspective, truth depends on understanding, which emerges from functioning in the world.
What Lakoff and Johnson are doing is laying the foundation for their argument (expounded upon in the last several chapters) that neither objectivism (as exemplified by classic rationalist and classic empiricist philosophy) nor subjectivism (as exemplified by romanticism) are up to the task of explaining meaning and that there is a third path to understanding truth - an experiential synthesis.
We understand the world through our interaction with it.
In a science fiction story by Ursula Le Guin a nonconformist ant writes, "Up with the Queen!" The fictional translators add an annotation that the proper English translation is probably "Down with the Queen!" In English, gaining power is associated with the up direction, and losing it with the down direction, though it might be the opposite in the fictional ant language; "Down with the Queen!" means "Let the Queen lose power!" Lakoff and Johnson argue that such metaphors, or "understanding and experiencing one kind of thing in terms of another" are absolutely essential to language and thinking.
I can't believe I never wrote a review for this book. This is one of the most important books I've had the privilege of reading. It changed me.It's like a lightbulb went on, and a bomb went off. It's profound magic for real. Please. Promise me you will read it.
I have learned one interesting thing (among many others): it is virtually impossible to comprehend totalities like our feelings or spiritual concepts without mentally (and if needed, verbally) breaking them down into partial metaphorical subsystems.One of the examples of what this book is capable of revealing can be about how metaphors are used in different life situations.
The kind of metaphors we employ in our thinking and conversations have a tremendous impact on how we experience things (like arguments), carry them out, and talk about them.
In the case of an argument, we would actually experience arguing with the help of dance metaphors as something very different as compared to a conversation that employs war metaphors.
Or in the words of Lakoff and Johnson, “To operate only in terms of a consistent set of metaphors is to hide many aspects of reality” (221)3) The Myth of Experientialism as the middle way between myths of objectivism and subjectivism.
That there are objective truths apart from human beings is exactly what Lakoff and Johnson question and ultimately debunk with their analysis of metaphor as our fundamental conceptual system in understanding the world.
So pace objectivism because there is no objective truth or meaning apart from human understanding (based on metaphor and our experience in the world).
Lakoff and Johnson make big claims but deliver none.
The reader is presented with no dialectic to even consider whether the thesis is accurate or not.The treatise that metaphors are at once the enabling and limiting factors of conceptual thinking needs an axiomatic foundation of what defines a metaphor.
Others have provided it, Lakoff and Johnson don't.
They arbitrarily pick examples with no definition of why they chose what they did, even to the extant of using counter factual 'evidence.' They continually try to replace self-evidence with metaphor only to mistake one for the other because they have defined neither.
Luckily other authors since Lakoff and Johnson have: skip this.
The afterword, written a few years ago, is important.The book begins with the metaphors of "time is money" and "arguement is war".
This cooperative aspect of argument is usually lost, overwhelmed by the war metaphor.An example of a more subtle metaphor is "In washing the window, I splashed water all over the floor".
That makes sense.The most interesting part of the book for me is the junction between the higher-level metaphor analysis and the physical basis for metaphor.
It would be fun to figure out how these new physical realities will change our metaphors, our minds and our societies.
In so far as the human mind can not understand things like events or emotions in concrete terms.
So in order to make sense of a friend that is "in" love or "in" a race we turn the event or the emotion into a contain with boundaries.
We see an event that actually has no sides or walls, and turn it into a container that our friend can be "inside" of.
The ceiling is "down" below us.We turn things like time, a very abstract topic, and define it with metaphors such as "time is money" so we can understand it.
This book was published in the early 70s but is still a relevant, compact and powerful attack on Cartesian dualism, the proposed split between mind and body that has plagued us for centuries.
(Not all Descartes's fault as I understand.
Socrates came up with the idea of the soul as some pure realm of ideas.
What Descartes did was take this concept of the soul and transform it into a concept of mind.
That's my understanding at least.) In any case, Lakoff and Johnson pile up evidence that the very idea of separating the mind from the body is ludicrous and impossible.
This book was recommended to me originally by my Yoda, my o captain my captain, and part of what enamoured me was just that: the sensation of 'assigned reading'.
I often miss being in the classroom in the role of a student and reading something completely foreign, of feeling my mind creak, of feeling someone else's passion for the ideas seep through your skin.
I also genuinely enjoyed the central tenets of the book, though I also needed to remember the pre-post-modern writing context and I think my understanding of the first half may have been helped by more than a first year linguistics class.
في البداية، هذا الكتاب لا يصلح قرائته لمن لم يسبق له القراءة في علم الفلسفة واللسانيات ، لذلك محصلتي فيه لم تكن المطلوبة لكن في المجمل البسيط الذي استطعت تحصيله يطرح نظريات تستحق التأمل بل هو في الأصل عند قرائته تلقائيًا لا تفعل شيئًا سوى التأمل.الأكيد أيضُا أن نظرتنا للألفاظ و تكوين الجمل والتعبير عن تجاربنا ستختلف تمامًا. أيضًا، توجد مناظرة قيمة في آخر الكتاب بين النظرة الموضوعية - الذاتية- التجريبية في منطق التفكير.PDF : https://archive.org/stream/alisti3ara...
This book packed a lot of ideas into my mind, which expanded and stretched my mind, ultimately blowing my mind. It'll take me a long time to digest these ideas, which I found palatable but very chewy.
Soul crushingly boring and repetitive.
This link allows us to determine the logical entailments in the more abstract domain by comparison to the cause and effect relationships in the concrete domain of how we physically interact with the world.In the language used by L&J metaphors map entailments from the source domain into the target domain while preserving the structure of entailment.
The best parts of Metaphors We Live By are the last several chapters where L&J explain and critique several aspects of Western philosophy in light of their analysis.
Imagine a culture where an argument is viewed as a dance, the participants are seen as performers, and the goal is to perform in a balanced and aesthetically pleasing way.
Once you realise this, you can never again view most parts of language as "neutral" or as "literal" because so very few come unflavoured.The central thesis of the book is that human thought process are largely metaphorical.
A metaphor is a way of understanding and experiencing once concept in terms of another or indeed of structuring one concept using some parts of another (not all!).
Although weighed down by academic prose and a bit of a slog to read, this book is transformative in the impact it can have on your life.
It is a matter of conceptual structure"Some of what follows from this line of thinking is tough to swallow - truth is not absolute but rather dependent on your metaphorical gestalts (this is why we have so much trouble talking with people 'coming from a different place' politically, culturally, etc.).
Awareness of what is being hidden by your metaphor could transform (or at least inform) your thinking on almost any topic.
Essentially: the metaphor form pervades every facet of our conceptual structure, influencing every aspect of our lives on a daily basis.
Rhetorical and conceptual metaphors help create our individual and cultural realities, both hiding and exposing certain aspects of concepts, ideas, and things, and revealing a complex system in which metaphors interact to create a relatively coherent and metaphorical system of experience.
The most compelling facet of "Metaphors We Live By" is how this idea of the pervasive metaphor relates to theories about truth, though the authors deny this and even at one point state that the metaphor's relationship to truth the least interesting aspect of their studies.
(The authors certainly seem to think so!) It seems to me that they in fact are rather vague about their mediating position between naive objectivist realism and what they refer to as postmodern subjectivist skepticism, sometimes leaning pretty hard away from the former while insisting that they don't succumb to the latter.
I'm sympathetic with that positioning (since I adopt it myself), but I don't see (yet) a clearly established position that amounts to anything more than a generic and implicit critical realism, despite their insistence that their views are not realist....Anyhow, the opening chapters are the most crucial--and you'll never look at argument the same way, once they point out that "AN ARGUMENT IS A WAR" could be revised to "AN ARGUMENT IS A DANCE." I plan to apply that idea to my next faculty meeting.
It fascinated me so much that I'm continuing to read it on my own time.I always thought of metaphors the way a typical writer uses them: as descriptive techniques used to add color to a scene, like an artist adding details with his brush (see what I did there?).
This book is filled with examples like this, many of which dig much, MUCH deeper into the way our entire language is structured.If you're a writer or someone who wants to better understand the structure of language, I HIGHLY recommend this book.
Although it is about 30 years old, it provides important insights into the ways human thought and understanding are structured.
It posits that the problems objectivism and subjectivism have connecting meaning, understanding, and truth are solved in experientialism.
I believe much of what it says about experientialism is consistent with what humans perceive; like Camus, I believe perhaps we know something about what is out there, but that our knowledge of The Truth is quite limited and will never be unifiable because of its (read our) limitations.Nonetheless, the chapter on truth is quite important.
Many books provide new things to think about, this book provided new ways to think.
As a Christian and Designer, I found book helpful in helping me reframe and better understand the way we think about things.
As a Designer, this provides new ways for me to think through and communicate Design challenges we may encounter.
As a Christian, this helps me better understand the way people think about many of the more abstract concepts within faith.Lastly, I think the implications of the book go beyond intellectual and I look forward to seeing how it shapes my personal life.
The first 5 or 6 chapters are pretty promising. And it's straight downhill from there. The beginning is well written and buttressed by plenty of examples so the ideas reveal themselves naturally and are convincing. The latter part is mostly empty talk and written in a bone dry textbook style with the quintessential bullet lists and ordered lists of talking points every three to five pages, and IIRC, the longest list has 10 items and is less fun to read than the one written on that stone tablet.
This is a perfectly respectable linguistics text that seemed to me, reading as a poet, to spend a lot of time making obvious points and making them over and over again. It's dry.I will take away from it a heightened awareness of the way we shape our reality metaphorically, even when we think we're being objective and scientific.I read the original edition.
