https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18280949-the-sea-close-by
This is a short work which has two essays written by Albert camusThe first essay which has the same name of the book was s a hallucinatory voyage across the sea and what the sea meant for humans across historyThe next essay which is named Summer in Algeria is the more fascinating one as he tackles his usual themes of death, absurdism and existential thinking.«I grew up in the sea and poverty was sumptuous, then I lost the sea and found all luxuries grey andpoverty unbearable.»
This a collection of two essays by Camus: The Sea Close By and Summer in Algiers.
The former is about the sea whilst the latter is about the city and so these two essays compliment each other very well in this short collection.This little book is absolutely beautiful with quote after quote after quote that will make your heart swell.
Both of these essays are observations, not stories, so you’re really just following a trail of thought.All in all, I wouldn’t expect much more from this little book than 22 pages of the most beautiful writing you’ve ever read.
A very small book with 2 essays which I read this morning and then went to see the Albert Camus exhibition in town celebrating 100 years since his birth, a mix of old and new, copies of his original handwritten notes and type written drafts with scribbles as well as projected words on a screen that start out as quotes and then all the letters abandon their form and fly individually across the screen eventually settling back into a form we can read.The Sea Close By is excellent, most of it is written as if at sea and though not much happens, it could not be more different than the way Hemingway depicts a man at sea.
ترجمهش کردم. باید منتظر چاپش بود...
ترجمه‌ش کردم. باید منتظر چاپش بود...
"If I were to die, in the midst of cold mountains, unknown to the world, cast off by my own people, my strength at last exhausted, the sea would at the final moment flood into my cell, come to raise me above myself and help me die without hatred."Belíssimas 20 e poucas páginas para ler no meio da azáfama do dia. Fez-me relembrar, e ter vontade de reler, o The Waves, da Virginia Woolf. "All that is left is a space, lying open to a motionless voyage."
Then I forget, and smile at the man who insulted me, or am too courteous in greeting the person I love.” This is my second experience with Albert Camus (with my introduction to Camus also having been this month), and despite my lousy 3 star rating, I do really enjoy what I've read of his works so far.
Nothing much happened but I couldn't take my eyes off the page.I would recommend this if you're a fan of Albert Camus or essays in general.
I believe he really does have a gift with words and I'm really looking forward to reading more of his works sometime in the future!
“Space and silence weigh equally upon the heart. A sudden love, a great work, a decisive act, a thought which transfigures, all these at certain moments bring the same unbearable anxiety, linked with an irresistible charm.”
The knowledge that certain nights of prolonged gentleness will return to the earth and sea when we have gone can indeed help us in our death.
Vast sea, forever virgin and forever ploughed, my religion with the night!
Each wave brings its promise, always the same.
What does the wave say?
If I were to die, in the midst of cold mountains, unknown to the world, cast off by my own people, my strength at last exhausted, the sea would at the final moment flood into my cell, come to raise me above myself and help me die without hatred.
The Plague has been my greatest target, but I haven't found a dead-tree copy to my liking, and can't tolerate the iPad long enough to give it a good effort.So, I picked up this little signature of two essays and drank it down in a short sitting.Just lovely.
Camus writes with such readable prestige- not too convoluted or allusive like Emerson can be, but nonetheless powerful; you know he is a Capital-G Great.I need a sailboat to best appreciate this.
And I need to visit Algiers.I suppose, for now, I'll settle for reading more Camus.
In the midst of winter, I found there was, within me, an invincible summer. Två Penguinmärkta essäer av Camus kom min väg. En om Staden. En om Havet. Är inte helt förtjust i att läsa i engelsk översättning, men eftersom jag är "in haste to live" tager jag vad jag haver. Arkiverar dem nu, både bokstavligt och mentalt, till nästa sommar.
So lovely and complex. Short but still compelling and thought providing and just so sweetly tragic and human. Camus is dope.
3,5.
Dois textos curtinhos e lindíssimos.
Read on a tedious road trip.
One of the most beautiful things I've read in a very long time.
Vakker liten bok.
P.Y.T.
Each cry we utter is lost, flies off into limitless space ..."] correlate with the ups and downs of our small, ordinary lives, tossed in the vastness of an unknowable universe in the same way the boat is driven by "the imperious wind." The primordial "antique sea", in endless motion, is both the bringer of life and the taker of life; like life itself, the source of both humanity's "unbearable anxiety" and "irresistible charm."Although ending on a glimmer of hope, the adult human doesn't fare so well in "Summer in Algiers." Camus observes the harshness of the summer's heat on mankind and how young virile men, lose their beauty and their hope in remorseless heat of the land.
The Sea Close By was writen when Camus was 24 and Summer In Algiers when he was in his 40s.
And both essays shows exceptional differences.
First one makes Camus so hardcore poet and writer as its like this man knew where to use exact word for everything.
I had to hold a dictionary to understanding it.
The second, Summer In Algiers is more like observing and less hard vocabulary than previous one.
Its more like just describing whats he been through and happens there everyday.
He didnt get poetic at all this time.
Loves a lot.
Beauty in twenty one pages.
it is 22 pages and it is sweet
I underlined most of sentences of these pages in pencil. Every line spoke with a voice that rang true, and every word chosen was the one word that would have fitted perfectly so.
Loved this piece of writing. The prose is so beautifully crafted and conveys the writer's depth of feeling for the sea and the control it has over him. Superb
If I were to die, in the midst of cold mountains, unknown to the world, cast off by my own people, my strength at last exhausted, the sea would at the final moment flood into my cell, come to raise me above myself and help me die without hatred.like that woman of Oran who had never loved her husband: 'God gave him to me and God has taken him for me.' But, all in all, I see nothing sacred in death and am well aware, on the other hand, of the distance there is between fear and respect.
Beide zijn het even simpele als indrukwekkende gevolg van Camus' capaciteit om me compleet in te pakken en mee te nemen, ook al snap ik vaak niet of nauwelijks wat hij exact zegt of bedoelt.
Ik vind vooral The Sea Close By erg mooi, zijn tamelijk abstracte, esoterische verhaal over een bootreis.
Het is een vrij complexe beschrijving van de aard van Algiers, omdat Camus zo gedetailleerd inzoomt in hoogst specifieke eigenschappen van de bewoners, en dat vaak in zeer abstracte omschrijvingen, waardoor ik zowel zeer dichtbij kwam als zeer ver op afstand bleef.
Old men and the seaThis is unusually lyrical and imagistic for Camus who is normally more concerned with the inner workings of the mind or thoughts.
At first reading The Sea Close By is s fragmented, episodic account of sea travel.
The protagonist whose inner characteristics are given in first person, briefly at the start of the piece, is finally found too, like the sea, travelling but arrived at a stillness,but one doubts his integration with the world describes as he hangs back in existential uncertainty.
As ever Camus makes the extreme seem familiar but all events described are weighty with unknown significance.
The first essay is a sensuous love-letter to the sea, and even if you had never seen it before Camus makes you love it through the sheer strength and delicacy of the imagery her floods the pages with.
I was amazed that he could continue to evoke new facets of the sea in every paragraph, when those that preceded were so pure and conclusive.
The second essay is reflection on Algiers, though this essay does not shy away from drawing attention to his perceived shortcomings of the city.
Still, it reads as a beautiful and candid pronunciation of his Algiers and the astonishing feeling he feels towards his "spiritual home".
"My friend, Vincent ... has an even clearer view. He drinks when he is thirsty, if he desires a woman tries to go to bed with her, and would marry her if he loved her (This hasn't happened). Afterwards he always says: 'I feel better' - and this sums up vigorously any apology for satiety.""The favourite joke of Algerian undertakers, when driving an empty hearse, is to shout 'want a ride, sister' to any pretty girls they meet on the way."Also Camus frickin' loves funerals and the sun.
If you're a reader that enjoys the sea and you are far away from it, the first essay from this book will take you to it.The book in it's totality - darn brilliant.
The sea and Algiers described beautifully.
