https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2187.Middlesex
The exchange went something like this: “There’s shit on my floor.” Why mince words?“What do you want me to do about it?” “I want you to fix my toilet, so there won’t be shit on my floor.”“Have you tried a plunger?” “What do you think?” “And that didn’t work?” After 20 minutes of this verbal badminton, I realized the man wasn’t going to get out of bed without a signed act of congress.
After a day of fruitless job interviews, I could go home to Callie Stephanides and her family, safe in the knowledge that there were over 200 pages to go before I’d need to find a new distraction.
On the cover was what looked like a steamship, and a quote on the back began "Part Tristram Shanty, part-Ishmael..." So I came to the foolish conclusion that this was some 19th century English seafaring novel.
More specifically, Middlesex (the title takes on a new meaning now) is the story of three generations of a Greek family and the incestuous genetic and social history that enables the existence of Cal, who narrates the story.The novel is epic.
A story about a hermaphrodite sounds unfamiliar to most at first, and there are moments in the novel when Cal faces the visceral or fearful reactions that arise in those prone to fear.
Alright, it’s high time I review this hermaphroditic little masterpiece.Being a pseudo-biochemist (pseudo in the sense that I only pretend to be a biochemist, whereas in reality I write scientific development reports and other documents that no one will ever read but which I’ve convinced myself are just as fulfilling as doing real science), I find the premise of this novel to be incredibly interesting.5α-Reductase deficiency is an autosomal recessive disorder; autosomal meaning that the gene coding for 5α-Reductase is not located on a sex chromosome (X or Y), and recessive meaning that one would need two copies of a mutated form of the gene in order to express the disease trait.
Exactly the flawless masterpiece you've heard it is.
I've read hundreds of novels in my day, & this is in the top 3 (On equal shelf with "A Confederacy of Dunces" and "Blonde." (My own personal trifecta perfecta: The THE the best novels of ALL TIME!)) I will never stop lauding this book.
Unbelievable, mythic; the stuff from the Gods to anyone with an eye & brain to receive from the way-up up up heights.This is LIFE AFFIRMING literature that's meant to be treasured for the rest of your life.
The main character will stay with you until the day you die...
An interesting idea, and a few engrossing sex scenes (I like the "crocus" and the peep-tank, and the whole long flirtation with The Object drew me in completely), and a nice two pages toward the end when Julie accepts Cal for what he is.
Cal's lack of voice or character is the worst thing: if your book aims to show readers what it's like inside the world of an intersex person, you should show us that world from the inside in a way that makes sense, or at least a way that's interesting.
Middlesex by Jeffrey Eugenides is a surprising and wonderfully written story about the life of Calliope/Cal Stephanopolis who in the opening lines "was born twice: first, as a baby girl...and then again as a teenage boy." The subject of hermaphroditism or intersexuality is addressed throughout as the book as a running theme as the cinématographique narrator Cal looks back at his childhood as Calliope and explains his complex incestuous family history from the origins of her grandparents as Greeks fleeing Smyrna as the Turks invade to Detroit from the 20s up to the 70s.
Now onwards to my shame.So Brooke and I were standing in line to meet Eugenides.
By the time the organizer offered post-its* to our segment of the line, we were getting silly and joked about all the crazy names and titles you could request.
When I handed Eugenides my book, he stared at the post-it for a second and then looked up at us.
I tried to quickly explain the promised bookstore visit, but I think in actuality I just pointed at Brooke and mumbled something like, “She made me.” Looking back, the whole episode could be construed as a power struggle.
Octopussy's Garden is partly to hammer home the parallels with Greek mythology (and echo a passage in the middle where Cal muses on the transformations of puberty, using sea creatures as an analogy), but the final intrigue and chase felt very off-key, compared with the rest of the book.There is also "an innate female circularity to the story", perhaps because Greeks believe "that to be happy you have to find variety in repetition; that to go forward you have to come back to where you began." This is compounded by some reversal (like Amis's execrable "Time's Arrow"): in old age, Lefty's mind and memories go into reverse, and in an early section, Cal describes his birth like a film on rewind.Destiny: The Known and UnknownCal is omniscient, not just when he remembers things he wouldn't be able to recall (including being a foetus), but also in terms of how much he knows about other people's inner thoughts and private actions.
Middlesex is an epic multi-generational saga of a Greek family with one of the most engaging narrative voices I’ve come across in quite some time.
Now of course I’ve matured a bit since that time and realize that there are a myriad of ways to connect to any human being.
Instead we are taken there with a voice that is often humorous while still managing to be sensitive and respectful – an admirable accomplishment!I’m not going to go into any further detail about this book – there are thousands of other reviews and my goal is to catch up on mine before summer slips away.
ex ovo omnia:  everything comes out of an egg.Yowsers, there are over twenty thousand reviews of this book on this site alone, so no, cannot say that I’ve read them all, but it does get me to thinking ………..I enjoyed this book way more than I expected.
Such was the case with this book.
I will not soon forget you Cal. Some would say that this is an American story.And it is.It is also a very human one.Pssst book junkiesI found this at one of my city's used bookstores in the downtown core.
Love the cover design and, and , and, it is in pristine condition.
Mr. Eugenides can do everything, or at least I am convinced of such after reading Middlesex.I passed on this book for a long time.
The story then passes on to the parents, then Cal.A couple pages in, Eugenides describes a rather gruesome scene, and this was my signal that this is a no-holds-barred kind of author.
Even when the book is at its darkest, most depressing, you're filled with sadness, but also with hope.The other great thing about Middlesex, aside from its incredible cast of characters is how well it captures society in history - first in Detroit in the '20s (a more bleak picture than '20s of The Great Gatsby), then the '60s.
This quote comes from page 263 and is really where the story picks up and gets into the subject the book promises--Cal's life as a hermaphrodite.
Another problem I had with the book was the fact that Eugenides tells too much about his characters and yet I still feel like it is underdeveloped.
I enjoyed two things about the book.
There are really some fascinating episodes in this book.
Sometimes I felt like he should have written an essay on American history rather than this novel.
The second thing I enjoyed was Eugenides sly, clever writing.
As I said, this book didn't deliver for me.
I like books with family stories but it was very dull at some parts.For me the start was really exciting with the grandparents. The when they got to America it dragged for me. Over abundance of information. Picked up towards the end again when it was more about Cal's discovery.
April 2012Goddammit, Middlesex is beautiful. It's epic. And it's roughly 500 pages too short. That's right--too short. As a sweeping, three-generation epic novel that covers the lives of Calliope's grandparents, parents, and her own childhood before she became Cal, it's a damn near perfect novel. As the story of Cal, post-transformation, it's...sadly lacking. The last quarter of the book is rushed and unsatisfying. It's beautiful anyway, but a few hundred extra pages wouldn't have hurt...It also feels like something John Irving could've written, which just shows that I don't read nearly enough contemporary literature. Help me fix that!
Ο ερμαφρόδιτος αφηγητής και πρωταγωνιστής του βιβλίου( ίσως δεν έπρεπε να είναι έτσι, ίσως ένας πιο αποστασιοποιημένος αφηγητής να μας εξιστορούσε γεγονότα που θα μπορούσε να ζει, να θυμάται, να αναβιώνει, να αποκαλύπτει, απο ουδέτερη οπτική γωνία, πιο ψυχρά, πιο ρεαλιστικά, πιο απάνθρωπα) επικαλείται όλες τις αισθήσεις και το συναισθηματικό του βάθος για να μας παρουσιάσει την οικογενειακή ιστορία της εκτοπισμένης του φύσης ως αδιαμφισβήτητη πραγματικότητα.
Αγωνίζονται για τις επιλογές τους και τηρούν τα βιολογικά έθιμα της σεξουαλικής γιορτής, έστω κι αν η φύση παρεκκλίνει απο το κοινώς αποδεκτό.
I am the original author of this essay, as well as the owner of CCLaP; it is not being reprinted here illegally.)The CCLaP 100: In which I read a hundred so-called "classics" for the first time, then write reports on whether or not they deserve the labelBook #15: Middlesex, by Jeffrey Eugenides (2002)The story in a nutshell:The tale of "the most famous hermaphrodite in history," Middlesex is the second and latest novel by Greek-American Midwesterner Jeffrey Eugenides, his first being the cult hit (and eventual Sophia Coppola movie) The Virgin Suicides.
This book has  all  the major players....Incest, war, teenage girl-on-girl experimental sex, deadheads, undescended testes, and a 2 inch penis. Yep, it took me all of one chapter to realize that Middlesex was referring to something besides a county in England. Best Part: Answering Maurice's question "What's that about?" then watching him squirm and cross his legs in obvious pain.Worst Part: Glaring Oprah sticker on the cover telling me I've succumbed to the masses.
what to say, what to say...I sometimes go into a book "blind" - to be as unpolluted in my expectations as can be, looking only at the star ratings of my Goodreads friends in order to determine whether I will try a book.
I didn't realise until I looked on the jacket cover that the book was about an individual, Calliope (later, Cal) who is a hermaphrodite.
Alrighty...This is my first experience reading Jeffrey Eugenides, and he certainly knows how to write.
(here's where I have to list my reasons for my three star rating on a much beloved book - I'll try to be brief)1 - 529 pages.
This three-generational family saga leaps from Greece to Detroit, across the U.S. and then over the sea to Germany to tell the story of Cal Stephanides, whose 5-alpha-reductase deficiency syndrome allows him to operate in society as a man, though he was raised as a girl through the age of fourteen.
(Her brother liked me, too.) An army tank led me into urban battle once; a swimming pool turned me into a myth; I've left my body in order to occupy others--and all this happened before I turned sixteen.Cal does break the reader away from his genuinely unique childhood in Detroit to return to the point in his family history where nature generated a winning lottery ticket for this DNA.
But sometimes they can be too busy, and Middlesex is toooo damn busy.Part of the problem is that the transgender struggles of the main character are plenty of story to work with, so there's no need to tie in an immigration from the motherland tale or set it against the 1960s Detroit riots as a background.
Certainly a setting is needed.
But there's backdrop settings and then there's settings with curtains, drapes, murals, and suddenly it's smothering the bloody scene!Having said that, Middlesex is still a fun, intriguing read.
The Calliope->Cal change is so abrupt in the book, and lacks any of the personal insight that the rest of the book teems with...it's almost like the author got tired of writing by the time the transition comes about (quite late in the book), and he just wanted to be done with it.
But I would even have liked to know why Calliope didn't think living as Cal was a choice and was instead a biological or personal inevitability...but no aspect of her choice/lack of choice was addressed.
Everyone knows the story, a story which I consider to be Cal’s and Cal’s only.As always, my reading experience is so much better when I learn something, and this award winning book expanded my vocab (how many new ones did I come across here?!) and my knowledge of American lifestyle around the prohibition era, bits and pieces that unfortunately went over my head about Plato and all that jazz, and Turkish slash Greek historical events.
I am glad I read this, but I should be careful not to have high expectations in savouring books.
Middlesex is Jeffrey Eugenides’ Pulitzer prize winning novel about a hermaphrodite, Calliope Stephanides, the family who made her, and her journey from being her father’s little girl to being his youngest son.
In making Cal so likable and genuine, Eugenides makes it impossible to miss the aim of this novel.
I, in fact, wondered how Eugenides managed to know so well what it felt like to be teenage girl.He also said, “here’s what’s not so funny.
This was my second time reading Middlesex, and I have to admit I approached it with some trepidation, wondering if I would enjoy it as much the second time, if I would be as swept up in the story, if, indeed, it would hold up.Note: The rest of this review has been withdrawn due to the recent changes in Goodreads policy and enforcement. You can read why I came to this decision here.In the meantime, you can read the entire review at Smorgasbook
A storytelling hermaphrodite chronicles his family's history beginning with his grandparent's emmigration from Turkey to the US in the 1920s. Incest. Mythology. Dysfunctional Greek families. Explosive secrets. Humor in the most unexpected places. Drugs. Sex. Hippies. Riots. Hitchhikers. The Illiad. WHY AREN'T YOU OUT THE DOOR YET? GO. BOOKSTORE. PURCHASE. READ. YOU'RE WELCOME.
“I was born twice: first, as a baby girl, on a remarkably smogless Detroit day in January of 1960; and then again, as a teenage boy, in an emergency room near Petoskey, Michigan, in August of 1974.” I'd heard Middlesex was about a character who was born intersex and raised as a girl - a compelling enough premise on its own - but I didn't realize this book was a rich, complex family drama, spanning multiple generations and featuring incest, immigration, family secrets and twentieth-century Ameri
I'd heard Middlesex was about a character who was born intersex and raised as a girl - a compelling enough premise on its own - but I didn't realize this book was a rich, complex family drama, spanning multiple generations and featuring incest, immigration, family secrets and twentieth-century America.It seems some readers were disappointed about this and wanted more from our protagonist and narrator, but I honestly love these kind of stories (The House of the Spirits is an old favourite of mine).
Eugenides allows Cal to explore his identity and come to terms with who he is by taking his story way back to the beginning; back before he questioned his gender, back before he was even conceived.I actually quite liked the idea that a person has been years in the making long before they're born.
Or am I?In a nutshell, Middlesex is the story of Cal, a Greek American who was born a hermaphrodite and raised as a girl before finally realising he was boy as a teenager.
Is it me, or would Middlesex have been a better book with slightly more information on what happened to Cal between the ages of 17 and 41?
I rather liked the film, so I'm actually quite surprised I haven't read the book yet...
Jeffrey and I started on very bad terms.
I read his Virgin Suicides and well that was an overhyped disappointment.
The Marriage Plot is shaping up to be one of the worst books I read this year.
So obviously I was apprehensive about starting this.
And I liked it.What can I say, it’s a good book!
Praise the baby Jesus, Jeffrey Eugenides wrote a good book!
This is a perfectly fine novel.
It held my interest all the way through and I actually wanted to know what happened as the novel progressed!
Shock horror, I know.
I liked a Eugenides novel.
The circumstances are favorable to them since Lefty and Desdemona profit from landing in unknown land to live their forbidden passion and to marry.
Their son marrying his cousin, the little Calliope is born, girl for everyone, although having the gonads of both sexes.The novel is divided into two main parts: the first tells the story of the emigration of the Stephanides family to the United States and the adventures that accompany it: the rise of Ford and the assembly line, prohibition and illegal bars, riots in Detroit due to the racial discrimination, ...
A very complicated story of a genetic disease that grips a large family and keeps coming up during the book like a jack in the box.
For your information, excerpt from NIH site:5-alpha reductase deficiency is a condition that affects male sexual development before birth and during puberty.
DHT has a critical role in male sexual development, and a shortage of this hormone disrupts the formation of the external sex organs before birth.Many people with 5-alpha reductase deficiency are born with external genitalia that appear female.
Unlike many men, people with 5-alpha reductase deficiency do not develop much facial or body hair.
