https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/13667.The_Farthest_Shore
Sparrowhawk is more than a wizard; he is also a spiritual guide and a great teacher.
He does not comprehend the wisdom he hears; yet, for some reason, the old wizard has seen something in him and asks for his assistance with his new quest.
Sparrowhawk has seen a flicker of courage behind the boy’s eyes; he knows that one day he will have the strength to succeed in the face of great evil, so he encourages him and teaches him how to be an effective leader.
1. A Wizard of Earthsea-  Four worthy stars 2.
“I would not ask a sick man to run a race,” said Sparrowhawk, “nor lay a stone on an overburdened back.” It was not clear whether he spoke of himself or of the world at large. Always his answers were grudging, hard to understand. There, thought Arren, lay the very heart of wizardry: to hint at mighty meanings while saying nothing at all, and to make doing nothing at all seem the very crown of wisdom." There are surely better passages to quote than the above to encapsulate the meaning or theme o
Besides, “to make doing nothing at all seem the very crown of wisdom.” is a skill I would like to acquire; where do I sign up for that?The Farthest Shore is the longest of the original Earthsea Trilogy but still a mere pamphlet by today's "doorstop" standard for fantasy books, which can be weaponized by simply hurling at your target.
The character Arren is similar to Tenar in the The Tombs of Atuan and Ged himself in A Wizard of Earthsea in that he starts off as a naive young lad and develops into a man of substance by the story's conclusion.
This wraps up Le Guin's original trilogy of Ged, better known as Sparrowhawk, the greatest wizard of Earthsea, and even though I really enjoyed it, something about it keeps nagging me.
I suppose it's just the feel that this story is the end of Ged after I just started to get to know him.
I mean, sure, he's still the same cocky and hard-earned wise man and he really shines when he picks up companions, like this young future king, but it seems like he's always having to correct his old mistakes.Of course, that's kinda the point, too.As a fantasy, I think it's still pretty wonderful.
Le GuinDarkness threatens to overtake Earthsea: the world and its wizards are losing their magic.
Together they will sail to the farthest reaches of their world — even beyond the realm of death — as they seek to restore magic to a land desperately thirsty for it.تاریخ نخستین خوانش: دوازدهم ژانویه سال 2008 میلادیعنوان: دریای زمین - کتاب 3 - دورترین کرانه؛ نویسنده: ارسولا کی.
نقل از متن این کتاب 3 : شاهزاده ی جوان جزیره ی «ان لاد»، «آررن»، اخباری ناخوشآیند به همراه داشت، دیگر هیچ جادوی واقعی در ان لاد وجود نداشت - ساحران وردهایشان را یکسره فراموش کرده بودند.
As usual with Le Guin's books, the flow of the plot is not the strong point.
So although this one has a more hackneyed plot than any other book of hers I've read, there are (as usual) quite a few really nice moments and deep insights.
Le Guin points this out as well: "For discipline is the channel in which our acts run strong and deep; where there is no direction, the deeds of men run shallow and wander and are wasted."Sure, I'm reading into it things that perhaps she didn't explicitly mean.
At times I found myself glazing over and losing track of what was actually going on in the story.When I review a book, I can't simply critique the writing.
I like the examples of Tenar from The Tombs of Atuan and Vexis Zaelwarsh from Rise of the Archmage.
I wrote Rise of the Archmage before I read Tombs of Atuan, but I see a lot of parallels between Vexis and Tenar.
You don't actually feel like you're there, sharing the journey with them as you did Tenar in Tombs.
Despite the harrowing journey, the interesting scenes and the deep, philosophical theme of this book I never actually cared about the characters.
Earthsea is losing its magic.That sentence could function both as a description of the book's plot, and as my evaluation of it.
For while Le Guin's writing is as impeccable as always, this was not as good as the first two parts of the series, and of course, far from the intellectual literary quality of her science fiction.It's never a bad thing to be reading about the journeys of Sparrowhawk and his companions, but Earthsea also seemed to me like a fun little side adventure for the author while she took a break to gather strength for a new masterpiece.
In this book that became apparent.
Le Guin, Yerdeniz'in ilk kitabından ana karakterin büyümesini, ikincisinde yetişkinliği ve atıldığı bir macerayı ve ölümü konu aldığı üçüncü kitapta ise ölümle yüzleşmesini anlatıyor. Ölüm nedir? Peki, yaşam? Yazar her ikisinin de elin iki yüzü olduğunu söylüyor. İkisi de bir şey olmasına rağmen hiçbir zaman aynı şey değildir.Kitapla ilgili incelemem: http://kitapokurum.blogspot.com/2018/...
Sharing his journey with another from the outset took something away from Ged, and it muddied my relationship with The Farthest Shore.I recognize that Arren's presence added many things, things that LeGuin wanted to add and needed to add, some wonderful things and some not so wonderful, but I wasn't expecting those things, and I failed LeGuin by being unable to embrace them.
Even once Miloš & Brontë asked if we could stop reading, even after I stopped reading aloud and went on by myself (in Ged-like fashion), even after finding myself captivated by the final search for Cob, the death of Orm Embar and Ged's sacrifice, even after recognizing the importance of Arren/Lebannen, I couldn't cross the emotional distance to embrace this book.I must read it again when I am in the proper place.
Serinin en beğendiğim halkası oldu. Zannedersem bunda en önemli etken, kitabın temasının 'ölüm' olması oldu. Zira benim de hayatım boyunca üzerinde kafa yorduğum, hala Arren gibi kabullenmekte zorlandığım bir olgu olması beni hikayeye mıhladı. Ged'i tüm toyluğundan sıyrılmış, fikirleriyle ergin olarak görmek; satır aralarına yerleştirilmiş Bergmanvari bilgece sözlerle aklımı meşgul etmek ve kemik seriye yakışır güzel bir sonla hikayenin ilk durağında dinlenmek beni ziyadesiyle memnun etti. Devamını okumak için de güzel bir motivasyon oldu.Kadim dilde, ejderhalara duyduğum tüm sempatiyle selamlıyorum sizi:)8/10
Had I read it when I still held spiritual beliefs, I would doubtless have fit the story into a framework of religious allegory and symbolism.
As I am now comfortable in my unbelief, I focused on the more concrete themes of right use of power and man's fear of death.
He sets off on a journey with Prince Arren to visit places in Earthsea where the magic is dying.
Prince Arren wonders why the Archmage doesn't use magic more often to make life easier for himself.
Arren learns that power is not something to be used just because you have it.

In many ways I think it is the worst of the original three Earthsea books, never reaching the clever subversive nature of the first book, nor the phenomenal world building and charm of the second.
He was (in my opinion) an insufferable know it all for a good portion of the first book, a wise man who understood his limitations (but always hopeful to work on them) in the second, and here an old man looking back not always fondly at some of his deeds, yet still able to see the good in the past.
The first and third did not reach the heights for me that many hold them too, but the second book far exceeded my expectations.

He had believed such doubts were reserved for the young, who had not done anything yet.They rocked in the great, cool darkness."That's why I like the sea," said Sparrowhawk's voice in that darkness.Arren understood him; but his own thoughts ran ahead, as they had been doing all these three days and nights, to their quest, the aim of their sailing.
Aye, I think so.""But I had thought, from what my father and teachers taught, that the great arts of wizardry were dependent on the Balance, the Equilibrium of things, and so could not be used for evil.""That," said Sparrowhawk somewhat wryly, "is a debatable point.
What I loved about this book was the more philosophical analysis of the nature of mankind (are they evil?) and questions regarding other topics that fascinate mankind, such as immortality.
I also realize this is the second book about Ged but with a different point of view.
And I like it, it provides a fresh and different perspective, people of different background and knowledge talking about their lives and their interaction with Ged. It is just a marvelous story that is worth reading if you are a fantasy reader.
It is also a great series to introduce the genre for those who do not know anything about fantasy!
Povestea înaintează parcă mai încet decât celelalte două. La fel de minunat însă, stilul Ursulei Le Guin, simplu și clar construiește o poveste despre viață și moarte, pe firul unui bildungsroman, traseul formării unui tânăr prinț. Învățăturile pe care acesta le câștigă și experiențele prin care trece sunt neprețuite și îl construiesc ca om, ca rege. Mi-au plăcut teribil dragonii și felul în care povestea îi prinde în țesătura ei.
El tercer volumen de los Libros de Terramar tiene un cierto tono a fantasía crepuscular. Si bien la historia nos lleva por diversos parajes, la narrativa vuelve a ser pausada. Me gusta, y mucho, pero mis favoritos siguen siendo los dos primeros libros.
The story picks up years after book two ends, when Ged is middle-aged and has become the Archmage of Roke, which is the center of wizardry in that world, housing a school for those in training.
Along the way to discovering the truth about the disappearance of magic in Earthsea, Arren and Ged encounter dragons, men in the clutches of a viscous mind eating drug, hostile primitives, and people living in a town floating upon the sea.
It requires a special talent to write a boring fantasy book.(I couldn't finish this. It's the weakest volume of the series by far. The storyline is jagged and thin. Nothing happens. Overall, it was a tedious read with rare moments of interest, and I think I'm going to ditch it.)
Good story, bad prose.When I was in high school, I read an Ursula K.
I saw this book at a library book sale and picked it up to give it a try.I discovered that being young an inexperienced had nothing to do with her stories being hard to read.
"The stillness of the earth was strange to them when they had beached Lookfar and walked after so long on solid ground."What she is saying here is that it felt strange to walk on solid ground after so long at sea.
Having both made me pause and think "What is she trying to say?"I liked the story.
Más aún en libros más clásicos del género, como este o los que escribió Tolkien, por citar un caso.
Por otro lado, la autora tiene un estilo narrativo bastante particular: no es sencillo seguir la historia si uno no está prestando la suficiente atención.
La novela empieza ya con el planteo del conflicto: en las primeras páginas los dos protagonistas hablan y dan cuenta del problema mágico que se está gestando en Terramar.
Para los lectores de literatura fantástica, Terramar es un mundo imperdible.
Sin embargo, Le Guin como autora también es imperdible, no solo por la calidad de su estilo, sino por lo temas tan profundos que plantea en sus historias.
I do not care what comes after; I have seen the dragons on the wind of morning.
Hatta çokta boşluklar var.Çevik Atmaca zorlu bir eğitimin ardından büyücü oluyor ve biz bu sırada onu izleyemiyoruz.
İlk kitapta Usta Ogion'un Gont'ta bir çoban çocukken keşfettiği genç Ged, ikinci kitapta karşımıza büyük bir büyücü olarak çıkıyor.
Üçüncü kitapta ise Roke adasında ki büyücüler okulunda baş büyücü olarak buluyoruz sevgili Çevik Atmaca'yı.
Bu yok.Bu kitapta da küçük bir çocuk eşilik ediyor Ged'e.
Ged büyünün neredeyse yok olmak üzere olduğu bu ana kadar hiç birşeyin farkında değildir ama prens durumu anlatınca hemen çakar köfteyi ve prenside yanına alarak yola çıkar.
. (hide spoiler)]Yazar da bize bu kitapta ölümlü olmanın ne kadarda güzel olduğunu anlatır.Ehh eğlenceliydi.Seri bitmedi ama bu yinede bir son kitap.
In these books, the most trenchant critiques of religion, and the best arguments for humanism are presented.
In the second book we see this replayed, with religion being the worship of darkness and fear.
In the book, people lose their pleasure in life as their longing grows to gain eternal life.
In one particularly memorable passage, the wizard of Earthsea visits a city where addictions are rampant, greed has overcome, and chaos rules everything.
Or don't and read the book.
I would put this in the top five fantasy series I have read.
We saw Ged from an outside POV in The Tombs of Atuan, and it’s not as though Tenar completely trusted or respected him instantly… but Arren’s distrust and indifference at times grate, especially set against his hero worship at first.I can see the beauty of the story, of what Ged does, but I don’t enjoy it.
It’s a shadow of a story, a feeling of foreboding – the shadow at the door.
It makes sense that Earthsea has to change, but that doesn’t reconcile me to the fact.Needless to say, Ursula Le Guin’s writing is great and that’s not the problem.Originally posted here.
Seri başından beri bu tatta olsaydı lanse edildiği kadar efsane olduğuna inanabilecektim sanırım. 3 kitabın sonunda söyleyebildiğim sadece: "Çok dağınık ama kendini bir şekilde okutan cinsten" olduğudur.Ben bu seriyi sabahları trafik gürültüsü altında, işe gitmek için servis beklerken tüketmeyi planlıyorum zira fazlası bir zaman ayırmaya pek gönüllü değilim.Özelinde, 3.kitap olarak yorumlarsam, Yerdeniz'in en iyisiydi şu ana kadar ki zaten sonradan uzatılmış bir seri olduğu düşünülürse, öyle de kalacak gibi.
Sé que 2 estrellas no es la puntuación que se merece este libro, pero yo puntuo por mi experiencia y ha sido bastante tediosa.
Los dos libros anteriores me encantaron, Le Guin escribe maravillosamente y la ambientación de Terramar me encanta, es de lo mejor que he leído.
La costa más lejana repite un poco lo que fue Un mago de Terramar; un viaje y una lucha entre el bien y el mal.
Seguiré con Le Guin más adelante, seguro que puede reconquistarme.
Bu seriye bir türlü kitap diyemiyorum çünkü sanki küçük küçük hikayeler birbirini kovalıyor.
İçerik açısından da öyle.
Ursula Le Guin'in hikayeyi daha heyecanlı anlatayım gibi bir gayesi yok.
Öyle ki sanırım her bir cümlede ortalama 4-5, kimisinde 8-9 virgül var.
Çevirmene sabırlar diliyorum.Belki kendimi tekrar edeceğim ama bu okuduğum kitap 45 yıllık!
Dolayısıyla 1972'deki atmosferi düşünecek olursak (ben düşünemiyorum zira doğmama daha 12 yıl var) yazarın böyle bir dünya oluşturmaya cesaret etmesi, yazması, basılması bile büyük bir cesaret olsa gerek.Ursula Le Guin'in tarzına mı gitgide daha çok alışıyorum, hikaye mi ilginçleşiyor bilemiyorum ama Tehanu'yu dört gözle bekliyorum.Herkese keyifli okumalar!
po neni dosta slabija od dvije prethodne knjige. Ged je razvijen do kraja kao lik - junak..ali nesto fali. Dosta zapinje kad sam citao i ne budi onakvu zelju za citanjem kao ranije. A sad odmor od Zemljomorja moja domaca zadaca je zavrsena.
