https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/12849385-the-innocent
The Innocent, is the 1st book in David Baldacci latest Will Robbie Series featuring the new character Will Robbie.  Will Robie works for a secret clandestine US agency and is one of their top operatives. His life revolves around his job and missions and is portrayed as the perfect operative…..   His employer decided who among the living and breathing would qualify as a target. And then they turned to men like Robie to end the living and breathing part. It made the world better, was the justifica
The book starts off with some back-story of some of Robie’s previous missions which gives us a bit of an insight into his character and his life.Robie is somewhat surprise about his latest assignment.
He realizes that you don’t play around with not completing a mission, so he leaves town under the radar and heads off to New York City until he finds out more about his failed mission and the possibility that he may be the next target.Julie Getty, 14 years old, smart, touch and street-wise is on the run after witnessing the murder of her parents.Robie and Julie’s paths cross when they both board the same bus.
I only read Daniel Silva's Gabriel Allon series when stolen or forged art is involved, and Brian Haig has stopped writing his Sean Drummond series at the bequest of his publisher BUT I found a new author that I'm currently reading and enjoying...Ten months later I'm a happy camper again having just finished the second of the last two thrillers by David Baldacci....and he's forgiven: no more Camel Club nor summer romance "stuff..." DB has created two new hero spies........John Puller in ZERO DAY and now Will Robie in THE INNOCENT.In a way Will Robie of THE INNOCENT is the more exciting hero!
What a ride! Baldacci is turning into one of my favourites. This is a fast paced, non-stop thriller with a few twists and turns, some that I saw coming, others I didn't. Superb audiobook narration.
Grade AThis is the first time that I have gotten my hands on something written by David Baldacci, and now I regret not having read anything by him before.As is often the case, I try to guess the plot by looking at the jacket.
Robie is now a wanted man.But it seems that he’s not the only one on the run.
Does he need to change sides to save lives – including his own?So, the synopsis made it clear that the central character is Secret Agent Will Robie, who is actually an official assassin of the US government’s secret services.
Killing changes a person, and the effect it has had on Robie is clear.I reread this after reading the first two John Puller novels, and I can discern what is part of Baldacci's narrative style.
But both have a sense of honor, well-honed instincts and survival skills.As before, my favorite aspect of this book was Robie's interactions with Julie.
She needs a protector who knows a lot about getting the bad guys dead and keeping alive.I’m really glad my library had this book.
I would love to read more books about Will Robie, and hopefully Julie will show up as a cameo.
I listened to this book on a long road trip, and would have bailed after the first chapter if I had not been trapped in the car for hours.
My first Baldacci book, I found the writing in The Innocent comically sophomoric.
Really, I laughed out loud several times and found myself predicting the inane dialog aloud while hurtling down the highway.
It was impossible to suspend disbelief listening to this over the top ridiculous plot and cartoonish characters.
Clearly, many people love this book, but I just could not find a single reason to recommend this book to anyone for any reason.
This is the first book in the Will Robie series.
Fortunately it did and the remainder of the book was an action packed tale of suspense.Will Robie is an assassin for a clandestine United States government agency.
Fleeing the scene he crosses paths with 14 year old Julie Getty who ran away from her foster home only to witness the murder of her parents.
The story is not very believable but it is certainly entertaining and this is fiction and being entertained is what I look for in a story.Will Robie starts out as a loner.
As the story unfolds we start seeing a transformation in Will.
Really liked Will Robie, and I'm looking forward to more adventures with him. This one was heavy on action and some of the plot seemed a little implausible, but entertaining even so. This narration was different from what I'm used to with some sound effects. Kind of added a fun layer. Loved that there where male and female narrators and they played their parts throughout the story.
His contingency plan: to assume one of his many aliases and make an urgent and stealthy escape on a hackneyed city bus.Fourteen-year-old Julie Getty believes her parents when they declare they have successfully battled their chemical demons for the last time.
Obeying her mother’s plea, Julie backtracks upstairs and escapes through her bedroom window.
Her mother’s last words to the killer, She doesn’t know anything, continue to haunt her as she boards the same hackneyed bus where a second killer waits to finish the job.Is their chance meeting merely a coincidence?
Robie doesn’t believe in coincidences or becoming an easy target.
An assassin for the US. Of course this is interesting! Pretty good start to this series. I am going to read The Hit tomorrow if I have the time. I’m completely into these Baldacci books right now. Still reading the Alex cross series and my YA addiction but it’s nice to have these Baldacci series on my nightstand also! My quick and simple overall: interesting and not easily predictable at all. Very good start to a series!
That and the somewhat sappy role of a female FBI agent and a scrappy teenage girl in this process leads me to rate it modestly.Right away Baldacci sucked my tense attention in pretty good as we follow CIA agent Will Robie through a series of thrilling and crafty assassinations of worthy targets around the world.
Soon thereafter he has a close call on an event I will not disclose, in the process saving a 14 year old runaway girl, Julie, who may have been a target.
Though the rest of the book, Robie bonds with the smart and brave teen and the lady FBI agent while working to figure out a fiendish conspiracy.
Very entertaining. Full of plot twists, I listened to this on audio and it was great. Sound effects, his and her voices, and music. Quite enjoyable.
He takes his fast-paced thriller genre and applies it to this great independent book, keeping the reader interested from the get-go and not releasing them until the final page has been turned.
His apparently newer major male and female characters make this book quite exciting, especially if listened to, as I did.Baldacci applies what may seem a quasi-cookie cutter theme to this novel; pinning an independent male together with a non-suspecting (or at least less 'rough') female main character.
Keep turning out these great books!
3.5 stars
How can you become even more addicted to reading ?Well after 3-4 brilliant books that's how I have b
Because, even though after finishing the novel we still don't know much about our protagonist Will Robie's mysterious past or how or why he came to be what he was here, other than the fact that he's a superbly efficient government-sanctioned assassin, Baldacci perfectly fleshed out his character and his morale, and made us absolutely root for the guy from the beginning.
I was hoping for some reveal in the end that would tie with Robie's past, but looks like Baldacci completely shut out that part to be related with the main story, at least for now.
Very enjoyable if wildly implausible thriller-type book. Just glad Robie finally got laid. Boy needed it even if he did have shoot the girl in the brain a few pages later. Relationships are hard. That's the moral of the story.
The book is about Will Robie and his priorities in ending and protecting life.
There's a nifty trick that Baldacci has used a couple of times.
Baldacci is not a universally revered author.
I suspect, no, I admit that his style is not universally renown, but it's terrifically compatible with me and other fans.
It just means that while I was a fan, now I'm a fanboy.
This type of authorship is what I've been looking for my whole life.
I await the rest of Baldacci's work with perhaps the highest expectations I've had ever.
Will Robie is a U.S. government assassin, tasked with killing enemies.
After two successful missions overseas, he is asked to shoot a mid-level government employee, but he balks when he sees she has two small children with her, but a sniper kills the mother and one child and Robie flees for his life only to find himself on a bus with 14-year old Julie, who is also fleeing for hers.
With the help of an FBI agent, Robie figures out the true purpose of the killings just in time to avert disaster.
He managed to make some great leaps in logic that seemed to come out of no where, but if you made your living like this maybe things would make sense.Julie happens to be wrong place wrong time, only more wrong person wrong time.
It seemed like it was obvious right from the start, I just kept waiting to see just how they would be involved.I loved the ending with Robie and Julie.
I would love to see more books with these 2, not sure how that would work, but they make a great team!
When he sees a small child in the bed of a woman he's been ordered to kill, he hesitates.
Another shooter kills the woman and child as Robie questions his handler.
Along comes a 14-year-old girl, followed by a man whom Will recognizes as someone just like himself.
Past actions are catching up with him, and lots of strange coincidences are placing him and the girl in deadly danger.I really enjoy political intrigue and The Innocent has plenty of it to go around.
I really liked the character and would like to see what happens to him in the future.
There are two story lines going in this book - Will Robie, who was ordered to kill someone-at the last minute realizes that something just isn't right with this--- a mother, with 2 children- he aborts that mission (which you are NOT supposed to do!) - Then the other story line is about a 14 year old girl who is now running away for she witnessed the murder of her mother and father......
I'm very much looking forward to reading the second book in this series.....
a sold 4.5 stars plus 1/2 star because - well because he is "Baldacci" !!
As far fetched and unbelievable as plot lines go, an engaging and entertaining book nonetheless.
Well read & a fun mystery-thriller, although the plot was too complex. Some of the foreshadowing was excellent (view spoiler)[ people going out of his view for 30 seconds, neither being what they seemed (hide spoiler)], but I was disappointed by one scene (view spoiler)[ where they're in the FBI safe house & the sniper takes so long to make his shot. She happens to sit perfectly lined up for a shot through cracked blinds while he is opposite her, yet not in the line of fire. All of that
Some of the foreshadowing was excellent (view spoiler)[ people going out of his view for 30 seconds, neither being what they seemed  (hide spoiler)], but I was disappointed by one scene (view spoiler)[ where they're in the FBI safe house & the sniper takes so long to make his shot.
It also took the Blue Man ages to get the military background on the original people in the squad & they never thought to look outside them, but the retired assassin does it with an 8 minute search.
All in all, not a bad read.
My first Baldacci book, and I am on the fence about reading any more. It had some pretty exciting parts, and some that were implausible. I did figure out where a couple of the plot points would lead, but I think the author has created some interesting, likeable characters. A hired killer with a heart, for one. Who would have thought?
Nothing special here, unfortunately.
I don't mean to bash this book, the technicalities are all bolt-locked in place: the dialogue is well paced, there's not a dull moment, the rhythm is kept.
Unfortunately, there's not much substance to it.
As well paced as it is, the dialogue is rather vapid.
There aren't many dull moments, but that's because the plot is pushed forward with deus ex machina moments that make you want to slap yourself with the book.
However anything past him is pretty much predictable.
All in all, if this is your literary cup of tea, it's pretty difficult for me to understand why.
Another good read from Baldacci. This is about an assassin who gets caught in a political conspiracy when he botches up an assignment. He is now saddled with a teenager who becomes involved in an international conspiracy unknowingly.A taut thriller, I enjoyed this immensely.
In the first 50 pages or so we go along with Robie on a few of his missions but the next one goes horribly wrong and now he’s being hunted by some scary folks.
On his escape he teams up with a 14 year old named Julie Getty who’s just left foster care only to witness the murder of her beloved parents.
In “The Innocent” Baldacci takes us all over the globe and into international politics including current and past wars.
Baldacci drops enough clues to make you feel like you’re in on the hunt but just when one plot point becomes clear another mystery pops up and the story takes off again.
Now, that's how a mystery/spy thriller is done.
The story is multi-layered and there are several mysteries going on at the same time; the pages fly by at astonishing speed and just when you think you have *some* of it figured out...it turns out you don't.
The three main characters are pretty well defined considering how fast the story goes with Will Robbie being central and pivotal to everything and everyone else.
Glad Mr Baldacci decided to make a series out of this, I can't wait to start with the next book, The Hit. If you like spy thrillers, give this one a go, you won't regret it.
I listened to this one while driving around. Very good, great start and strong story. Robie is an assassin working for the US and then gets on the wrong side of some bad guys and has to solve a mystery, while saving his life and a young girl. Excellent! Baldacci is the best.
