https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1907612.Picture_Miss_Seeton
Miss Seeton can’t describe the murderer when pressed by the police — but she can draw a perfect rendition of him.
The village characters that author Heron Carvic describes remain as fresh and funny as they were nearly 50 years ago; truly, despite being first published in 1968, Picture Miss Seeton has aged quite well.
I can’t wait to read the next in the series, Miss Seeton Draws the Line.
And thanks to whomever for making most of the re-released Miss Seeton books available on Kindle Unlimited.
I had never heard of the Miss Seeton books before the re-release of the series by Farrago.
As will happen in villages, word gets around about the heroic actions (or possibly her villainous intentions and nefarious criminal past, depending on which person is telling the story) of Miss Seeton.
The police can't help but laugh as Miss Seeton miraculously uses her umbrella, laundry soap and her unfailing luck and wits to escape all attempts to do her in.This book is just a delightfully fun story!
I can't wait to see what Miss Seeton gets herself involved in next!Off to start reading book 2, Miss Seeton Draws The Line.
A fun, quirky mystery. It did take a while for me to get used to the writing style, which was rather stream-of-consciousness, but I liked the characters. However, given the situations she found herself in, and her solutions to them, I just couldn't decide if Miss Seeton was really smart, or a female Mr Bean.
Superintendent Alan Delphick (The Oracle) is intrigued and impressed by her ability but fears she is in danger.Miss Seeton has been left a cottage in the Kent village of Plummergen but it seems her excursion into crime fighting is not destined to be her last as murder and mayhem follow her there.
I loved Miss Seeton - think Miss Marple with an umbrella - who rushes in where angels fear to tread and who has an uncanny facility for drawing her impressions of people.I look forward to reading the rest of the books in this series and I'm glad they are being re-published for a new audience.
Picture Miss Seeton by Heron Carvic was originally published in 1968 and is a totally delightful and funny read.
Careful Miss Marple, you have some competition in a retired art teacher, armed with only her trusted brolly and her drawings.
But before the young guy can do further harm to Miss Seeton, a man rushes to her aid.
Not only is Miss Seeton unaware of the danger she's in nor the fantastic stories about her, she stumbles into another mess: drugs and embezzlement.
I will be reading more in the Miss Seeton Series, even though Heron Carvic wrote only the first five novels before his death in 1980.
It's rather like a comedic parody of the Miss Marple type—Miss Seeton is a bit younger and more active, but much less bright spinster, whose gift seems to lie in her odd, metaphoric sketches of people which reveal things she intuitively senses about them.
(I laughed until I cried at the scene where the village rumor-mill gets going on the events by the pond.) The cast of supporting characters is wonderful, particularly a pair of very likable detectives, Superintendent Delphick (a.k.a. the Oracle) and his assistant Sergeant Bob Ranger; and Sir George and Lady Colvedon and their young son Nigel, a delightful family who participate in some of the book's best moments.
I wasn't certain I'd enjoy this starting out - Miss Seeton's opening was very scatty, and the narrative leapt from person to person at an almost frantic pace. Eventually though, it settled down and became mildly humorous - a nice light read.
Miss Seeton is a retired but not retiring art mistress who goes to spend her holidays in the house she has inherited from her aged godmother.
(If Miss Seeton is retirement age, said godmother must have been elderly indeed.) A chance encounter on a street in London draws her into a labyrinth of drugs, murder, greed and embezzlement.
Her nosiness ("must put this right") leads to more than one person getting hurt, and she blithely disobeys police orders and advice to stay out of danger--which nearly leads to her own death.Carvic enjoyed parodying Miss Marple, Miss Silver and other spinster detectives.
While this mystery has that "Golden Age," village-cozy vibe, the fact that it was originally written in the 1960s allows it to be edgier than either of those series: the crimes in _Picture Miss Seeton_ all revolve around a drug ring, and the murders are nastier and more cold-blooded than they often are in cozies.
Carvic's gimmick is making Miss Seeton a drawing teacher, one with an almost clairvoyant talent for sketching perpetrators and victims in ways that not only reveal their moral character, but also seem to reveal their pasts and predict their futures.
What a treat to meet my old friend Miss Seeton.
There is much laughter and many smiles as Miss Seeton managed to aid the police with her drawing ability.
Leaving the opera house Miss Seeton interrupts a murder and is able to draw a picture of the villain for Scotland Yard.
This begins her adventure as she heads toward the small town where she has inherited a house.
I looking forward to reading her adventures again.Disclosure: I received a free copy Farrago through NetGalley for an honest review.
I would like to thank them for this opportunity to read and review the book.
I really wanted to like this book as it is beginning of a series but I just couldn't get into it.
The main character is a younger Miss Marple type who witnesses a murder.
The catch is she is an Art teacher able to replicate the killers face through her drawing.
She moves to an late elderly relatives home in the country and meets a series of quirky characters.
The characters are annoying and the scenes move quickly from one place to another with no explanation.
I really wanted to stick with it but gave up half way through.
A sense of trust and caring that we, in general, lack today.It's a soap opera-like approach to drugs and crime — the sort that brings to mind Reefer Madness, there are police who use their heads, there are some villagers who are practical and kindly while others take much too much joy in embellishing their own "hopes" into a mish-mash of entangled gossip with all sorts of nonsensical ideas thrown into the ether about the "truth" behind Miss Seeton and her activities.
A sense of trust and caring that we, in general, lack today.It's a soap opera-like approach to drugs and crime — the sort that brings to mind Reefer Madness, there are police who use their heads, there are some villagers who are practical and kindly while others take much too much joy in embellishing their own "hopes" into a mish-mash of entangled gossip with all sorts of nonsensical ideas thrown into the ether about the "truth" behind Miss Seeton and her activities.
Miss Seeton, a retired teacher of art/drawing, is an amusing character who moves blithely through life (usually with her umbrella handy) while everything sort of erupts into chaos around her.
(But who doesn't love a parade, right?) A lot of odd occurrences follow on her visit, and the police inspector gradually comes to realize that Miss Seeton's drawings are often sort of prophetic and symbolic, containing clues to the mystery.There was an odd (to me) feeling about some of the narrative segments, particularly when the prose gives us the unfiltered inner-mind workings of some older male.
Miss Seeton finds herself involved in a murder and lots of trouble!
Miss Seeton witnesses a stabbing, gets involved with Juvenile Delinquents and more.
Miss Seeton is eccentric, English and carries a deadly umbrella!
As she tries to solve the crime, through her sketches one must wonder if the murderer will get her first!This was an enjoyable mystery.
The narrator, Phyllida Nash, provided a wonderful performance.
Well-developed the story flowed smoothly and Nash kept it going with her natural performance.If you enjoy cozy mysteries, this is a fun one.Audiobook was provided for review by the publisher.Please find this complete review and many others at my review blog
To make matters worse even when there is a coherent passage the book just inexplicably jumps to another scene.I believe the author intended Miss Seeton to be an ‘Innocent’, but at times she just appears to be stupid, how can she believe that right after witnessing a murder, the man threatening her with a gun was just trying to steal a few eggs.
Overall I thought about a quarter of the book was quite interesting and a fun read, unfortunately the other three quarters was incomprehensible or just boring.
Steeped in all things mystery since early adolescence, I can't believe I have never read a Miss Seeton book (that I can recall) until now!
This book is a prime example of what I consider the classic British mystery, with the added whimsy of Miss Seeton herself innocently stumbling into and out of chaos.
Mistaking the murderer for a "rude young man", Miss Seeton pokes the killer with her umbrella as a reminder to mind his manners.
After all, the point is to be a part of Miss Seeton's adventures, and they are great fun!
Thanks to my Goodreads friend Orinoco Womble (tidy bag and all) for recommending the Miss Seeton books.
This free e-book download is the first of the series which has at least 22 books, some written by a second author after original Heron Carvic died.* * * * *I LOVE Miss Seeton!
Such a delightful story with good characters.
I can't wait to read more and to see how the story changed with two writers who took over the series after Mr. Carvic's tragic death.
I was quite looking forward to this series and new author so bought the first 3 books. I really liked the characters and the story but just didn't enjoy the read because of the disjointed writing style. For me, the writing style detracted from the flow of the story.
I thought the language was a bit confusing at times, and the story was thin, but the main character was charming and entertaining.
If you want a light, cozy mystery with a touch of parody, you should enjoy this book.
They are all busy bodies and when the find out that Miss Seeton took on a murderer with her umbrella, they all want to know what happened.
When questioned by the police, she draws her way out by providing Scotland yard with artist's impressions of suspects and situations that just happen to hold the keys to more than one case.
There are five books in this series and so far they have reissued 3 of them.
I do expect characters that will engage me and situations that will entertain me.
It is well-written and fun and introduces a character that can not help but make the reader smile.She is not as wise and wily as Miss Marple, but her intuition is sound---even if she doesn't know where it is taking her.
Yes this is fun and frivolous and not a book for serious "crime" readers.
But, it gave me everything I could hope for in a light mystery: a full day's escape and entertainment.Thank you to netgalley for providing me a complimentary copy of this book in exchange for an honest review.
Meet retired art teacher Miss Emily D.
Seeton, a gentle parody of Agatha Christie's Miss Marple.
If you can follow the conversations of Miss Marple, you will love Miss Seeton!Heron Carvic's Miss Seeton books are a joy to read from start to finish.
As Miss Seeton wrecks havoc in the Kent countryside.I'm glad to see these classic mysteries back in circulation once more.
I love them.Further adventures of Miss Emily D.
Seeton.Book #2 - Miss Seeton Draws the Line.
- May 2016Book #3 - Witch Miss Seeton.
like, comment and follow.
Miss Seeton never "gets a clue", yet provides clues galore.
She has a remarkable ability to observe things, but never correctly interprets them.
She is surrounded by mayhem and criminal activity but only notices "bad manners" as a punishable crime, for which she delivers a swift swat of an umbrella.She is not interested in solving anything more mysterious than how to maintain a garden.
Yet, as long as Scotland Yard and the local authorities can keep up with her...they nab plenty of ne'er do wells!When in the mood for a cozy, after a hard week of playing cops and robbers (and murderers), I will slowly be reading all of the Miss Seeton series.
I received a free copy from Net Galley in exchange for an honest review.Miss Seeton is an aging amateur Lady Detective, this story was originally written in the 1960's Which gives it a certain flare.
Miss Seeton is a logical no nonsense lady she firmly believes in manners.
She is also naive in some ways..
The villagers all see her logical approach to life as eccentric.
One of her more logical moves is to take up yoga.
Superintendent Delphrick is quick to use Miss Seeton's naivete to his advantage.

What an enjoyable story. I just love a good mystery! The main character of this series, Miss Seeton, reminds me of one of my favorite mystery/crime fighting females, Agatha Raisin, by M.C. Beaton. This is an easy, fun read. Something any old fashioned mystery enthusiast would love. I can’t wait to get started on the next title, Miss Seeton Draws the Line.
The writer has to decide if Miss Seeton is a doddering old fool or a sharp, smart woman. He can't have it both ways as he seems wont to do here. Miss Seeton might have appeal, but it is not evident in this story.
I've read through 75% of the book in a day and I am so very, very, very, very, very, VERY, very bored with Miss Seeton's unbelievable level of obliviousness, the cops' super tolerant attitude toward a woman who is a raging pain in their ass, and a lot of repetitions about how great it is that Miss Seeton can totally guess things through sketching because she is-or-maybe-isn't-it's-kind-of-vague a little bit psychic?
And they seem all impressed by Miss Seeton drawing a murderer behind bars because apparently that's super weird.
well, like I said, a woman oblivious to an unbelievable degree.
I just finished the last Miss Seeton book but now that I have read the first one...the town, the characters and all of the circumstances are so much more clear.
Miss Seeton believes she is done with all of this "stuff" but her involvement in this is really just beginning.
Why I wanted to read it...The characters, the writing, the situations are so appealing.
Miss Seeton has inherited a cottage in the town of Plummergen.
What made me truly enjoy this book...I loved getting to know the characters...they are so quirky and often annoying...but annoying in a good way.
And Miss Seeton was accidentally...or not...involved in it all!
