https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/10032.Essays_in_Existentialism
Although he became head of the new Religion Department at Grinnell College, this course was taught under the Department of Philosophy.
The fact that I remember them all bespeaks the positive impression the class made and I did quite enjoy all the readings--even, surprisingly, Kierkegaard--except for one.The one I didn't like was the Sartre collection, titled in this edition Essays in Existentialism, but originally published as The Philsophy of Existentialism.
Now, of course, I suspect it was over my head at the time like so many readings were.PS: I find a bibliographical note praising the introduction to this volume.
this could be a 3.5, as i enjoyed the start essays but less the applied criticism of the arts.
the beginning essays simply reminded me of his ideas, his perspectives, his existentialism- and what a smooth writer he is, with a deft turn of phrase, an acute sense of dramatization.
i felt i had read them before, possibly had in b & n.
his essay on why write also familiar, also useful.
interesting bio on tincoretti.
on giaccometti sculptures yes i could see where he is headed.
on his painting less so.
on mobiles by calder, well you probably have to see his work in person...
Must read.Part II is, from what I can discern, a condensed version of his explorations of Nothingness, Negation, the "Not." Deeply interesting, occasionally deeply confusing.
Perhaps a dive into Being and Nothingness is in order, but the passages on bad faith are indispensable.Part III offers a phenomenological attack on psychology and those pesky psychoanalysts.
I've no opinion or suggestion to offer, I was forced to skip it.Part V is undoubtedly the most interesting section of this collection: Sartre's essays on writing, one painter, one sculptor, and one movement-capturer, are frantic, digressive, rambling scratchings on the lives, work, emotions, and philosophical trappings of artists.
Wholly unique essay style which one can engorge on.
Must read.
A fantastic collection of essays from one of the most brilliant existentialists. If you had/have a hard time getting through "Being & Nothingness" start here. You won't feel overwhelmed with the information being hurled at you, but your brain will still explode from the unmitigated sense of nothingness you'll feel during & after reading. Highly recommend for fans of existentialism or for someone looking to learn more about it.
The two make an incredible pair.I said to a friend: "Paul and Sartre are like photographic negatives." I do not think Sartre knew how closely his views of Freedom and Responsibility and Bad Faith could mirror the Christian description of Sin and Freedom and Depravity.
The essay on Tintoretto and Venice was also very enjoyable.Those final essays to me seemed particularly piquant, as they previewed how Sartre's Being and Nothingness can manifest in art critique.I have more to say about Sartre, especially his philosophy and relating it to the Book of Romans, but that will be a blog post, I'm sure.
Sartre at his most digestible. Great in general, but you'll have to look elsewhere if you want to pursue these topics in any depth.
The essays about existentialism proper are great, a worthy read. All the other stuff he wrote was just coasting on those earlier successes.
Existentialism is a Humanism is a substantial essay in that it, in my opinion, successfully refutes the "oppositions" skewing of existentialism and what it entails.
In the essay - which I only read, I didn't read the rest of the book - he bifurcates existentialism into two essential parts: theistic (kierkegaard, etc) and atheistic (he lumps in hedeigger), and proceeds to expound on the importance of both in terms of morality and the human condition.
Definitely read this essay if you want an elucidated analysis of what existentialism actually is, along with all of its implications on life, our perceptions, and morality.
This book is a collection of essays by Sartre.
It then morphs into a discussion of nothingness, still very existential in nature.
The discussion of nothingness was the hardest for me to understand, and one would likely benefit from reading it with a friend to sound out ideas together.
The concept of emotions that Sartre then pursues is also rich.
Finally Sartre ends with a discussion of different artists, which I think was interesting, although at times I struggled to see the connection to the earlier pieces of the work.
Overall, worth a read.
A thoroughly enjoyable collection of essays by Jean-Paul Sartre. . . . Really. I especially enjoyed reading Part I ("The Humanism of Existentialism" and "Freedom and Responsibility" were my favorite sub-sections) as well as Part III ("The Emotions: Outline of a Theory"), Part V ("What Is Writing?"), and Part VI ("Essays in Aesthetics"). This last part (VI) is an excellent reminder that Sartre is also a fiction writer whose language is indeed beautiful. . . . I just love those French existentialists!
The beginning, Existentialism is a humanism, is just about the finest, most well-sitting intro on Existentialism I've found to date.After that, everything gets a bit fuzzy for me. I found Satre's use of psychoanalysis old-fashioned, and he lost me in his subsequent essays on authenticity & co, but I did find the closing writings on aesthetics semi-comprehensible. Still, fond memories of what was my first foray into Existentialism, though as you can get Existentialism is a humanism as a full text online, I don't see why I would go back to this book again in the near future.
Short essays on various topics in existentialism. I realize this is not likely helpful but it is a great text for getting in on the ground floor and learning of existentialism. Sometimes gets a little complex on the ideas and concepts but overall good for someone without previous philosophical study.
This is a pretty good collection of Sartre's works; however, I'm not a big fan of the translations in this text. But if you need to read a bunch of Sartre's most important essays, this is the text to get.
Existentialist heavy hitter.JP is very technical, and makes some people drink lots of black coffee and smoke unfiltered cigarettes.I find this book to be surprisingly easy to read compared to some of his other work.
A nice collection of essays discussing not only existentialism, but also topics such as art (through a consideration of specific artists such as Calder and Giacometti) from an existentialist, or at least Sartrean, viewpoint.
this book was given to me by a friend. i haven't read all of it because it's really thick and a little boring.
Not only is this work captivating, but many of the essays just are not hard to follow.
Love him despite his many flaws. Love just about everything he's written.
logical
