https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/149622.The_Golden_Gate
There was a time when I really loved the thriller genre - Alistair MacLean was pretty much God then. In this novel, the President of the U.S. along with his motorcade is trapped on the Golden Gate Bridge by criminals for ransom. However, Agent Revson who is part of the team has another plans.A fast-paced thriller with strategies and counter-strategies, with the good guys outwitting the bad guys in the end. Enjoyable.
Some of his books have been made into memorable movies (The Guns of Navarone, Where Eagles Dare, Ice Station Zebra, to name a few).The President of the United States arrived in San Francisco to meet with a number of Mid-East leaders to observe progress on an oil refinery.
To ensure the police and secret service do not thwart his plans, Branson (the leader of the group) wires the bridge towers with explosives and threatens to detonate them if they make any attempt to rescue his hostages.
MacLean writes this lean story of less than 300 pages in a fast-paced version of what happens when highly motivated terrorists capture the president's motorcade on the Golden Gate bridge.
One of the better later MacLeans, I've always loved the thrilling opening with the taking of the Golden Gate and the intended kidnap victims in a tense, well synchronized operation. Loses some pace later on, but is is worth reading.
A disappointing later effort.
It appears that MacLean's skills diminished over time.
This book has a good premise, but is lacking the tautness of his earlier work.
There's too much jocularity to it, as though the whole thing is a great lark.
Not just in the prose, but in the dialogue, which takes the reader out of the story.
It really needed an editor to step up and strip some of the unnecessary verbiage, awkward and out-of-place colloquialisms.
It's also distracting to have cusswords replaced by the word "deleted."Unfortunately about a third of the way in, I more or less gave up on this, the writing was too flabby, lazy and flat-out bad.
Even in the 1960s, Alistair MacLean was writing terrorist types of stories.
Dark Crusader, Golden Rendezvous and Satan Bug are good examples.
In his later career, he shifted more consistently to this type of story, and The Golden Gate is a good example.I originally read this novel when it was first published in 1976, so I dusted off my hardcover.
The key elements are here: calculating hero, maniacal villain, and willing assistant (often female).
First, our hero is non-lethal--or attempts to be.
MacLean should have known that, and his American publisher (Doubleday) should have fixed it in the editorial process.

I read this back in the 80's and found myself disappointed in that I could not like the hero and did like the baddy.
I have read most of McLean's books and this is the only one that I have never gone back to re-read.
I picked it up last week, took a deep breath and re-read it...
only to find myself again liking Branson and NOT liking Revson.
It is a good story and quite exciting in the vein of all the McLean books - I just do not like the hero.
not one of his best efforts. It had some fine action moments and an interesting plot, but the writing was uninspiring. Made me think of a Steven segal action movie, and I'm not a big fan of those, either.
The plot had possibilities,the kidnapping of the US President and two Arab Sheikhs.However,it never came to life.I found myself reading in fast forward and couldn't finish it.
Having read Patterson & Clinton’s ‘The President is Missing’ and Sam Bourne’s ‘To Kill the President’ in quick succession, I decided to go back to the Alistair MacLean canon.
‘The Golden Gate’ opens with the meticulous preparations that lead up to the hijacking of a presidential motorcade halfway across the titular bridge.
Most MacLean novels focus on the hero, the villain usually backgrounded to the point of invisibility or - as in ‘Athabasca’ - left unrevealed until the very last moment.
MacLean makes effective use of his single setting and the focus on a psychological contest rather than a physical one (although there’s a big set piece at the end) is interesting.
Being a native of the San Francisco Bay area does give me a better picture of the setting than most and as I grew up during the early 1970's, the time frame of the story is spot on for me.One of the things I expect from an author is at least decent research when you are writing about an area and that should include learning something about the weather.
My entire childhood in the Bay Area was sans thunderstorms, not one in 20 years yet here MacLean coughs one up like magic.
I normally like MacLean novels, and to a certain degree, I enjoyed this, but I think it had some flaws too.The book is about the hijacking of the US president and an Arab king and prince on their coach in the middle of the Golden Gate bridge during a visit to San Francisco.
(MacLean somehow thinks that FBI agents protect the president, not the Secret Service.) Branson, the bad guy, and his 17 men take over and demand half a billion dollars, among other things.
Έτσι στη γέφυρα έχουν παραμείνει και δημοσιογράφοι και διάφοροι τεχνικοί, ανάμεσα στους οποίους και ένας μυστικός πράκτορας του FBI που δεν φοβάται τίποτα και θα κάνει τα πάντα για να ματαιώσει τα σχέδια του Μπράνσον.
Οι περιγραφές του μεγαλεπήβολου σχεδίου από μέρους του Μπράνσον, για την απαγωγή του Αμερικανού προέδρου και της κατάληψης της γέφυρας, παραστατικές και έδειχναν ότι ο Μακλίν είχε μελετήσει διάφορα πράγματα τεχνικής φύσεως.
Οι χαρακτήρες βέβαια δίχως βάθος, αλλά ο Μακλίν δεν φημίζεται για την ανάπτυξη των χαρακτήρων των βιβλίων του, αλλά για τις τραβηγμένες ιδέες και τις συναρπαστικές πλοκές.
Είναι από τα βιβλία του Μακλίν που δεν έχουν μεταφερθεί στην μεγάλη οθόνη και αυτό είναι παράξενο.
The basic premise is that a group of hijackers kidnap the President of the United States in the middle of the Golden Gate Bridge and hold him for ransom.The main character wasn't fleshed out at all and appeared to be a heartless machine.
While there is a sort of hard-boiled sensibility that enjoys and thrives on that kind of distance from characters, it didn't work in this case.As an aside, I can see this being made into a movie someday if it already hasn't.
That doesn't mean I'd want to see it, but it seems like the kind of heist/hijacker plot that is attractive to many movie studios.
een naam die onmiddellijk een belletje deed rinkelen.Hoewel ik nog nooit een boek van deze man gelezen had, meende ik me te herinneren dat het een zeer goed gesmaakte thriller auteur was.
Toen ik dit boek zag staan in een boekenruilkast dacht ik dus dadelijk een 'gouden ouwe' (jaja, toepasselijk ;-) )gevonden te hebben.Na een flitsende start liet het boek me echter een beetje op mijn honger zitten.
De good-guy had net iets te veel onrealistische handigheidjes nodig om dit verhaal tot een goed eind te brengen.
De bad-guy was dan weer irritant naïef en zelfzeker.
Het verliep allemaal net iets te makkelijk.
This book has one of the BEST opening scenes of all time...followed by not muchIn fact, I can't really remember anything but the opening. The prose and the slow, tense pace of those first few pages are great. But then, nothing happens! This sort of matches my review on the Satan Bug, so here's the Golden Gate in brief: MA GOD, MOTORCADE POTUS, ETC. COOL!!  then something something abduction then something's going on here. money and getaway something and then the end. Boom!I much prefer going bac
This book has one of the BEST opening scenes of all time...followed by not muchIn fact, I can't really remember anything but the opening. The prose and the slow, tense pace of those first few pages are great. But then, nothing happens! This sort of matches my review on the Satan Bug, so here's the Golden Gate in brief:
  MA GOD, MOTORCADE POTUS, ETC. COOL!!
 then something something abduction then something's going on here. money and getaway something and then the end. Boom!I much prefer going back and watching Sidney Lumet's Dog Day Afternoon. Much better story.
Alistair McLean's The Golden Gate has the normal ingredients of Mclean,a daring plot and systematic execution.Add his brand of dry Humour.The Golden Gun has one novelty-the hero handles the situation literally with his hands hands and brains-no weapons!An intersting Read.Alistair McLeanAlistair McLean
Has to be one of McLean's top 5 novels, if not for anything just for the villain. In Peter Branson, McLean creates one of the most memorable bad guys, whom you would actually end up rooting for. Egoistic to the core, Branson's wry asides on the US President, their dependence on oil, make this novel worth a read. It also has an equally smart hero in Revson, who uses his brains to outwit Branson. Racy, enjoyable, this is one helluva book.
Although an avid reader, this was my first Alistair MacLean book. I found the main plot was original but slighly unbelievable at times. The characters were numerous and at times I had to go back to see who was a 'goodie' and who was a 'baddie'. The main good guy, Revson, was most likeable and easy to warm to. It was thoroughly enjoyable and the star of the book survived at the end, the bridge! I look forward to reading more of his books.
Reread this recently and still loved it. The crime is audacious and daring and the odds for foiling it seem unsurmountable...There are no huge or epic events, but it is strife with tension and keeps you glued to the story. I hate putting down this book, even when it is over. What else would expect from the writer of Guns from Naverone and Where Eagles Dare?
This novel started out causing me, the reader, to want for the antagonists to win, but shortly turned it around so that I wanted them to fail. There were multiple subplots transpiring simultaneously; Alistair managed to pull this off beautifully! I thought this was a great book for anyone young adult and up. My definite recommendations!
I had mixed feelings about this book. I thought that the beginning was amazing, the heist perfectly planned out. Then, the book started to get confusing. I knew what was happening but not sure why it was happening. I didn't understand the end either. The language is effective, and I really like Peter Branson's dialogue, but I thought that some of the adjectives were too complex.
Peter Branson has the brains and the means of carrying out this latest "job." Escaping at the end will be easy compared to holding the President hostage and bringing down the Golden Gate Bridge. But he (literally) misses a single detail - and his plan is now in danger of being what comes crashing down.
This was the first Alistair MacLean book I read, and it helped establish him as my favourite author in the action/adventure genre. I've re-read it once and enjoyed it a second time around, but can't imagine it would hold up again. A MacLean book is one I will pick up when I feel like a lazy, easy, but fun read.
Napisałabym - stary dobry McLean. Cóż z tego, że możliwość zaistnienia takiego przypadku jak dwóch szejków i prezydent USA w jednym autobusie na moście Golden Gate jest praktycznie niemożliwa?. Mistrz potrafi tak zawiązać intrygę, że czyta się z zapartym tchem. Ukazana walka umysłów, podchody, wreszcie finał - znakomita lektura
Great book for people getting into MacLean books. Truly is a page turner right from the start. The dialogue between the antagonist and the protagonist steals all the limelight away from the foundation/crux of the story.Just brilliantly amazing , this one is a must read !
My second Maclean book.The entire book, I kept imagining about the bridge. I had no encyclopedias at home to check out photos, and it was only much later in the 80's that I saw the images in a NatGeo magazine.
Action thrillers are not my ordinary reading fare, but this book’s author fit into my Scots and Scotland theme for this month, so I decided to give him a try. I actually quite enjoyed it. The unbelievable parts I just put into a box called Fantasy and went on reading.
I think I read all of MacLean in my halcyon days! Each one was like a magnet. I don't think the book jacket alone brings back the story, but I remember the book and that I enjoyed it so! perfect for the idyllic, warm summer months!
The author has a remarkable style of writing, in fact, it was the main reason that kept me going till the end. Apart from a few holes in the plot, a highly entertaining piece of literature that is even worth a movie adaptation.
