https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18828.The_Rachel_Papers
Nothing!The Rachel Papers, Martins Amis’ debut novel, is a snide and rude bildungsroman about an insufferably pretentious and over-articulate git named Charlie Highway, who, in the final hours before making that magical transformation into a twenty year-old, proceeds to ruminate over the past three months and his brief romance—his first experiences with love—with a posh bird named Rachel.
The exact and expansive details of the relationship have been obsessively complied in a series of documents (Charlie collects material and produces portfolios for all the women in his life) called, you guessed it, the Rachel Papers.
3.5 Often crude and rude but highly entertaining if not easily offended. The main thing I took from this book is Martin Amis has a unique way with words. I also learnt that teenage boys are extremely gross. He does well to capture the selfishness and insecurities of adolescence, if it wasn’t as funny as it was this book would have been so cringeworthy.
If Philip Roth is correct and life is misunderstanding people, then I remain awed by the riddle which is Martin Amis.
His first novel The Rachel Papers injects self-awareness into satire, leaking a fecund foam which changes everything about how we regard the way we live now.
The insecurity of adolescence is illustrated by our protagonist, one Charles Highway, who diagrams said angst and provides cross-references from the literary canon.
During a lazy gap year Charles writes, drinks and woos the titular Rachel.
Life doesn't meet his precis.
Matters become a little Meta and we are left a little uncertain about what is actual and what is fictive.
sono più che mai convinta che un charles highway nella vita andrebbe frequentato almeno un po'. e proprio in virtù delle di lui smisurate cadute di stile, degli inciampi, delle fobie. delle gambe storte, della condotta variamente laida e - peggio che mai - della voce stridula e nasale. perché fatti salvi taluni repentini moti di disappunto, ci si divertirebbe un tot.(forse con ragazze perbene si intendono semplicemente quelle a cui son toccati in sorte ragazzi appena troppo noiosi).
This is basically a book about being a teenage boy - obsessed with phlegm, spunk and pulling girls.
At times Highway is intensly dislikeable - like wading through a teenage boy's room in fact - but he is undeniably fascinating.
However, the prize for most dislikeable character must surely go to Norm, who Charles pales into insipidity beside.
Some of the structure is a little rough - particularly the eccentric use of the "you" character later in the book (perhaps I read it too haphazardly to recognise it's true significance).
However, the character of Charles is entirely believable.
Hell yeah.. . . "I took Rachel to a French film, La Rupture, as an oblique way of indicating to her how good in bed I was going to turn out to be." 109"University challenge: the contestants seemed to be alarmingly well informed but, on the other hand, reassuringly hideous." 134
I haven't read other Martin Amis novels. I have read analyses about Martin Amis, I have read interviews of Martin Amis and I have read raving reviews of OTHER novels of Martin Amis and I believe everybody who praises his talent. Unfortunately I should have also believed the people who praise his talent and who warned me not to choose  The Rachel Papers  as an introduction to his work, on the grounds that – surprisingly enough - it sucks. I didn't and it was a big mistake. I chose  The Rachel Pap
I also hoped it would turn out to be an easy and fun read about teenage lust, which would be GREAT.
It wasn't even an easy read and it's a short one, and suffice to say, I won't dignify that book with the slightest comment on potential proximities to a 70s version of anything even remotely related to the Hornby universe.
is an incredibly B-O-R-I-N-G and badly written coming of age novel about some Charles 20-year old who, similarly to the entire book, is completely humourless.
I've given up trying to defend Martin Amis books.
He has focused a bit more on characterisation, creating Charles Highway, who can stand as the equal of any of the unpleasant young men of literature in my opinion.
He's at once detestable and forgivable, and he's instantly recognisable to anyone who's ever anticipated the sexual act with equal measures of dread and excitement, or felt an odd pleasure at coughing up a livid green lump of mucus.If you've never read Martin Amis, or wondered what goes on in the head of self-involved young men, this is a good place to start.
Read: April 2017I decided to read The Rachel Papers after reading the amazing Time's Arrow last year and I cannot believe these two books were written by the same author.
I wrote a review of Time's Arrow at the time which showed how much I loved it and I guess I expected this book to be of a similar calibre but it was nowhere near as good.The protagonist here is Charles, who is trying too hard to be a 'lovable rogue' sort of character, but really he comes across as pretentious and arrogant.
(…)Di sicuro non mettevo parole una dietro l’altra con lo stile navigato di Amis.Che, ve lo devo dire, scrive da dio.Questa è la storia di Charles, uno di quei ventenni che la sanno lunga.
Che gli daresti una testata sui denti ma alla fine gli vuoi bene.Ci sono le ragazze (Gloria e, soprattutto, Rachel), qualche amico la maggior parte del tempo strafatto, una famiglia non del tutto normale, l’università e Londra.La storia forse non è originalissima.
Roth, a grandi linee.Però c’è tanto di quel mestiere che a dire che è un’opera prima di un poco più che ragazzino non ci crederesti.E invece.
Then I came across this in the garden shed and realised I’d never read it…Martin Amis has a talent for creating obnoxious characters and the narrator of The Rachel Papers, Charles Highway, certainly fits this bill.
Except, unlike in his middle period when he somehow managed, almost like a conjuring trick, to cajole you into sympathising with his villains, the obnoxious character in The Rachel Papers remains obnoxious.
Charles Highway is about to turn twenty.
Rather, I'm sentimental about myself.” Amis has lots of fun sending up the writer because this is also a novel about the writing process.
the spocchia papersCharles è un insopportabile egocentrico stronzetto inglese, manca poco ai suoi ve
In any case, it’s always good to be prepared, and fortunately Amis did not let me down.The Rachel Papers happens to be Martin Amis’s first novel and features the first person musings of nineteen year old protagonist Charles Highway.
The novel ends with some of the coldest closing lines I’ve ever read, the kind that only a very brave writer could produce.Upon finishing The Rachel Papers I began to miss it like an old friend who I knew I wouldn’t see for a long time.
Sim, os seus livros são perversamente hilariantes mas a dissecação do "absurdo da condição pós-moderna" que Amis e outros afirmam ser característica dos seus romances parece-me quase sempre ora pobremente ou exageradamente abordada – raramente na medida certa – e de uma forma um tanto e quanto imatura.
No entanto, acontece o inesperado quando conhece Rachel, por quem, muito contrariadamente, se vem a apaixonar “á seria”.Na parte inicial do romance Amis parece demasiado satisfeito com as suas “chalaças” e referências literárias para se preocupar em delinear as personagens secundárias e procurar dar á sua obra uma estrutura narrativa minimamente disciplinada.
Charles Highway is a Rick Ocasek-looking, luggie horking, father-hating-for-unspecified-reasons, asthmatic on the cusp of his 20th birthday, which he is taking, like most things, very seriously.
Amis takes that loathsome protagonist in his first novel, "The Rachel Papers," and turns it all into a very witty story.
It didn't seem enough."He meets Rachel by offending her at a party, taking her on a date, not calling her, then giving it another go a week or so later.
Things with Rachel don't last long.Not much happens in this short novel covering an equally short amount of time.
Several times I wanted to quit reading it, but I honestly hate stopping a book when I'm half way through.
I think my big mistake with this one was seeing the terribly made 80's film adaptation prior to reading the book.
But I think it's pretty hard to get into anything you're reading if you despise the narrator- am I correct?
"It was too dark there (thank God) for me to be able to see what was right in front of my nose, just some kind of glistening pouch, redolent of oysters").
Yuck.Definitely not my cup of tea, thank you.
Should this be renamed? I'm thinking Portrait of the Artist as a Young Horny Man? Charles Highway is an absolute little shit and yet he is endearing and I enjoyed my time with him (even when it was gross). Everything he does, he does for experience and for an opportunity to write about it. At least this is what he tells himself. I would guess, too, that everything he does, he does in hopes of feeling real emotion, thereby breaks the boundaries of his class and family.
The Rachel Papers was my first Martin Amis novel and I liked it enough that I would read Amis again, most definitely.
People say his subsequent efforts, such as Money and London Fields, are brilliant, and based on this book – published (if my math is right) when the author was 24 – I imagine they are.
But he knows he’s not a nice fellow (indeed, he tells you precisely why), so this articulate candour makes for humour, and the book is really funny in places.
Kevin’s not a very nice person either, so he and Charles (or so Kevin thinks) seem to have a connection.
amis' writing is always sharp and loaded with extra meanings and his bluntness about how men think about some things must have been a bit of a slap in the face to the post hippie world of the early 70s where men had begun to tell lies about getting in touch with their feminine side.
there's a lot of safety to be marshaled by hiding in one's mind but in this case it keeps the novel a coming of age story (by force of time) rather than a coming of awareness story (by force of life, and experience) and that story is already told daily in the numbed goings on of people far less intelligent.
For a book about a teenager supposedly coming of age, written nigh on 40 years ago and read by me rapidly approaching my 30th birthday; this was possibly not the best combination to get the most from the controversial debut novel from famed misogynist Martin Amis.
And this has been true of all of his novels that I have read to date.
Fiction. Self-indulgent, myopic, teenage fiction. I like Amis, but not his narrator. Charles Highway is a spoiled 19-year-old who considers himself an intellectual and tends towards something he identifies as "self-infatuation" but makes no move to resist. I couldn't handle him and nearly threw this book down twice for every page I read.
DNF at page 131. I'm bored out of my mind and Charlie's an arrogant, misogynist dickhead. I gather that's supposed to be the point but I'm not foreseeing any character growth so no, can't read this anymore.
The Rachel Papers is hilarious, while shamelessly trashy and egomaniacal.
The Rachel Papers is Amis' first book, penned at 24, and I like what another reviewer said - it's like Catcher in the Rye if Holden Caulfied got laid.
tragic act [laugh here, getting out of your depth:]."------------------------------Rachel: "Hello then.
Wotcher reading?"Charles: "Oh, you know, some tired old hack reproducing boiled-up earlier articles and pretending they form a unity.
Posturing, wordy, inept, if you like - but not bad for a viva."(Cut to Charles' inner monologue): Again quite impetuously, we began a tour of the shop.
Amis read, this is much less datedly 'shocking.' Reading DB was a bit like listening to a teenager with green-dyed hair talking about how much she's subverting Them.
Aside from being hilarious, the book's strength is the distance between the character, the reader, the 'implied author' (sorry for the jargon, but it's a useful one) and Amis himself.
Here, Amis is distant from Charles Highway; he starts off letting the reader be distant, then eventually forces you to be - the conclusion is the only truly shocking part of the book, but it's perfectly right.
One of the troubles with being over-articulate, with having a vocabulary more refined than your emotions, is that every turn in the conversation, every switch of posture, opens up an estate of verbal avenues with a myriad side-turnings and cul-de-sacs—and there are no signposts but your own sincerity and good taste, and I’ve never had much of either. Fuck Holden Caulfield. Granted, I read Salinger's tripe at the scamp age of 12, but even then I felt the facade of his perpetually deprecating ang
Where, oh where, is the literary novel for the socially competent hyper-literate youth with his future ahead of him, at the beautiful crux in age where ambition collides with delusions, noxious sexuality with empathy, and people with preconception (being a douchebag is sine qua non, of course)?
It hasn’t the most taut structure, but it’s a hell of a debut novel; one that speaks to me far more than the monoliths of whining I’ve been subjected to in my days of yore.
For a first novel (published in 1973) about a lascivious 19-going-on-20 year-old guy named Charles Highway, obsessed in the pursuit of a girl named Rachel, Amis' linguistic spins are not only unique but timelessly charming:My family lives in Oxford [...] Furthermore, I dislike the town.
Sorry: too many butterfly trendies, upper-class cunts, regional yobs with faces like gravy dinners.
[p.6]andTake a look at the scaly witches round your local shopping centre, many of them with children.
Look at the kids.
[p.19]As an Amis first timer, I'm interested to see what becomes of his style with surer form and maturity thrown into the mix.
Painfully realistic at points; so much so, that I envision Martin Amis as Charles Highway.
But not young Martin Amis.
The present-day Martin Amis.
Which makes it kind of a Lolita experience; a middle-aged guy trying to seduce a young lady before his __th/__nd/__rd birthday.
The text is kind enough to remind me, without elegant variation, that Charles is 19, and tomorrow he'll be 20.
When this happens, the prop handlers slop a mop-top on 55-year-old Martin, but it doesn't stay on long and usually flies off as he's running to the bus station or out of his tutorials.
Martin Amis' first novel is very good.
In fact if it wasn't for the polysyllabic language the plot could easily pass off as a YA novel.Charles Highway has one aim.
His target is Rachel.
Rachel is also seeing an American exchange student so Charles' efforts to sleep with her increase.Yes on the outlook this does sound like a sexist novel, and it is.
But there are some genuinely funny moments and I'm willing to pass the silly plot.
Sure it is predictable but there's a lot of feel good charm here to overcome all the novel's foibles.
I'm both too old and too female to really connect with this book but it's a pretty amazing job for a 24 year old (which is the age Amis was when this published). Such a witty writing style.I wonder if this was the start of the "debut comic coming-of-age novel by and about bookish, awkward English boys with anti-hero protagonists that are thinly veiled versions of the authors themselves" trend? Amis on Oxford: "I dislike the town. Sorry: too many butterfly trendies, upper-class cunts, regional yobs with faces like gravy dinners. And the streets are so affectedly narrow".
1.5 stars. I've never used the dictionary feature on my kindle so many times. In fact I rarely use it but with this book, I had to about 3 times per page. I understand that was the point of the book. The protagonist is a pretentious little shit. But really it was a chore to read. And also boring. Nothing happened this entire book. Nothing at all.
