https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/5587960-the-thing-around-your-neck
Only because I am reading alphabetically through my library's fiction shelves, did I this book up.
Had I read the back flap, my silly prejudices would have forced me to put it down and pick up, instead, a silly rom-com.
I am a white, WASP, 44 year old, egocentric American with an average education and little travel experience, it would never occur to me to read a book of short stories by an African writer.
I highly recommend this book for other egocentric overfed Americans like me, especially those who want to write well.
You could learn a lot, about the world, about Africa and about good writing from the author, Adichie.
The Thing Around Your Neck is her first story collection, which weaves together tales of Nigerians in Africa and in the United States sharing the same hardships and love for their homeland.
This is the Nigeria that Adichie has created for me in this collection- a country rich with culture that even if she has undergone her share of hardships, is a country looking toward the future, and one that all Nigerians living abroad long to return to.
Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie has created deep characters with her rich prose here, and I look forward to reading her full length novels.
On Monday of Last Week, one of my favorites, calls to mind a later scenario in Adichie's 2012 novel Americanah, in which an educated Nigerian woman serves as an au pair for a wealthy family, and also presents Americanah's theme of what it means to be a black African in race-sensitive America.Adichie also works through the delicate balance of literary achievement and authenticity, so brilliantly and sharply rendered in Jumping Monkey Hill, where a pan-African collective of writers gathers at a retreat in east Africa, only to be pandered to and condescended by their benefactor, a lecherous snob.The collection's final story, The Headstrong Historian, almost feels like it belongs to some other collection, for some other reader.
. The location has switched to the United States, and the viewpoint here is that of a Nigerian woman, Nkem, a young mother who lives in New Jersey, Philadelphia.
While he himself has remained working in Nigeria, Nkem is finding that she sees very little of him, and instead confides in her maid who is also Nigerian.(view spoiler)[ She soon begins to think that her husband is cheating, and eventually finds out that he has installed his mistress in their Lagos home.
I fell in love with Adichie's work after reading her second novel, Half of a Yellow Sun, around a year ago.
I felt like the characters could've been contained in full-length novels, rather than in just 20 or so pages.
If you are looking to get into reading short stories, or interested in Adichie's writing at all, I feel like this is an excellent place to start.
What draws me to her stories is the new perspective I almost always walk away with after reading from her.
I'm introduced to a new culture and new attitudes, while still feeling familiar with the characters because she writes from an often youthful perspective.
Zbirka priča magičnog pripovedača!
Shameless, brazen and lazy, I'm going to pinch the comment on the front of my edition: "Adichie makes storytelling seem as easy as birdsong."Will that do?I can add on some of those typical enthusiasms: stunning, exquisite, you know, you'll have used them yourself at some point.
If you weren't entirely convinced by Adichie as a novelist (I was, fairly, but maybe not quite enough), try these short stories.
They have certainly convinced me that I need to catch up with the rest of her oeuvre.
Oh dear.
And just when I was doing so well with the books already in the house.
What an excellent set of short stories exploring the human condition with all its flaws and neurosis.
Adichie addresses the institution of marriage - arranged marriage, infidelity; same sex desire, sibling rivalry and the consequences of subordinating female children; she then intersects these with immigration and migration and interracial relationships.
Each story is complete yet you feel it could also form the basis for a longer novel.
Unlike many young Nigerian writers Adichie's language is uncomplicated and every word has its place and purpose.
The writing appears effortless and there are gems of insight - On America "the abundance of unreasonable hope".
This is not immediately as gripping as some of the other short stories I have read by Adichie but by the end it is just as moving.
This short follows a young Nigerian woman who waited for her husband to send for her to come join him in America and how the passage of time can cause you to not recognise your life anymore.
This is a beautiful short story about love and heartbreak, about faith and religion.
A short story woven in such a way that it feels very ethereal, other worldly even.
This collection touches on a lot of same themes as that wonderful novel: the struggle of women in present day Nigeria, the plight of African immigrants in America.
And in the delicious Jumping Monkey Hill, the narrator attends a retreat for up-and-coming African writers, curated by a lecherous old white man (I'd love to know how much of this one is autobiographical).The short story format requires a particular set of skills: the ability to immediately involve the reader and spin a convincing, immersive tale over a reduced number of pages.
She is a unique and outrageously gifted writer, and I can't wait to read more of her.
Of her first three pieces:( Purple Hibiscus and Half of a Yellow Sun included) this Adichie collection seems to really highlight Achebe's influence and this is a thrilling thing to see.Compelling and witty characters, revelatory stories, and just the right amount of sensory elements to help me visualize--just how I like my short stories.
The scope for depth and breadth, the bigger picture, in a short story must be either alluded to, hinted at, or fulfilled in an entirely different way.What Adichie does here very successfully, is to manage to create a series of wonderfully satisfying short stories – each within a fully realised world of their own.
The stories not only feel effortless and have a real feeling of believability and authenticity, but Adichie has successfully managed to create stories that although short, manage to be compelling, engaging and thought-provoking – as well as being satisfying; leaving the reader wanting more in every case…what happened next?
4.5/5 The first thing that came to Ujunwa's mind was to ask if Isabel ever needed royal blood to explain the good looks of friends back in London. Look, I'm fully committed to rooting for Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie until the Nobel Prize for Lit committee gets their collective head out of their collective ass and gives it to her (spare me the political yibble yabble. My knowing what's up hasn't killed my excitement yet, so leave me this and go ruin Santa Clause or US democracy or something of that
I feel the need to include the standard short story run down for the first time for whatever reason, so here goes, complete with quotes around the ones the class chose to peruse:"Cell One" - 3/5Imitation - 3.5/5A Private Experience - 4.5/5Ghosts - 4/5"On Monday of Last Week" - 4/5"Jumping Monkey Hill" - 4.5/5"The Thing Around Your Neck" - 4/5"The American Embassy" - 4.5/5The Shivering - 3.5/5The Arrangers of Marriage - 4/5Tomorrow is Too Far - 4.5/5"The Headstrong Historian" - 5/5My average of the class assigned is a smidge higher than the ones I read on my own, but the class also has the greatest range of scores and has both the best and the worst according to my personal feeling.
Wow, what a beautiful collection of short stories! This was my first book by the praised Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie and now I can understand why so many people have fallen in love with her writing. Her style is so mesmerizing and touching that you’ll have no problem getting attached to her characters, no matter how flawed these people might be or how different their lives are from yours.   “I was happy when I saw your picture,” he said, smacking his lips. “You were light-skinned. I had to think ab
In The Thing Around Your Neck you’ll find 12 short stories written by Adichie over the past few years that are often centered around the same topics.
They tell the story of how white supremacy affected the lives of Africans – whether they are an native African or living in America – and how hard it is to find pride in yourself and your culture while people constantly try to tear it down.So if you, like me, want to get introduced to Adichie’s writing, or if you want to read a captivating short-stories collection that tackles sensitive topics in a beautiful way, than you should definitely pick this book up.
4.5 stars rounded upAn excellent set of short stories which concentrate mostly on the lives and experiences of Nigerian women; ranging over issues such as tragedy, political and religious violence, new relationships (especially marriage), loneliness, sadness, displacement and the many problems of post colonialism.
There is plenty of social and political comment, but it is wrapped up in human stories.
In the title story, the narrator meets a young white man:“He told you he had been to Ghana and Uganda and Tanzania, loved the poetry of Okot p’Bitek and the novels of Amos Tutuola and had read a lot about sub-Saharan African countries, their histories, and their complexities.
I decided to read one per day during my lunch break, and after two days i was looking forward each day to the next story.
Normally when reading a novel i look forward to finding out what happens next.
But interestingly, i found myself looking forward each day to the next story because i wanted to know about what topic or theme Adichie would write about next.
I think this type of evocative and provocative writing is important and I hope as Westerners become more familiar with contemporary African literature, we will finally begin to shed our misperceptions of the continent.
I loved those that described the cultural foundation as shaky ground shifting under your feet and offering little support.While I liked them all (being Adichie's mental twin and all), I can understand that to some people some of the stories might lack depth and lasting impact.
I felt I always knew what she was trying to say even those times when she failed in delivery.Even if it is not going to become your favourite collection of short stories, it is definitely worth reading because it offers a unique insight into Nigerian reality.
Como muchos, descubrí las palabras de Chimamanda a través de un par de charlas TED que hay disponibles en la red (The danger of a single story y We should all be feminists).
Ya entonces quedó claro que esta mujer tiene mucho que decir y me entró curiosidad por leer algo suyo.Este libro es una colección de 12 relatos cortos, las raíces de muchos de los cuales surgen de la propia experiencia de la autora: nació en Enugu, Nigeria, y a la edad de 19 años emigró a Estados Unidos para estudiar y desarrollar su carrera como escritora.
I can barely begin to explain the catharsis of reading Adichie's prose.
In particular, I am captivated by the way her stories respond to the expectations of "ethnic fiction" and "African fiction," as genres full of Third-world starvation and refugees.
She deftly handles subjectivities of black African positionality, facets of identity which the market would slam as "inauthentic," or "not African enough." Her stories are delightfully astute, her characters cracking the lenses by which one might expect to view Nigeria.
I just ordered one of her novels, and am anxious to read more.
4.25 stars.Good Lord, this collection of short stories is beautifully written. They're all compelling. They're all full of wonderful characters. They're all incredibly full of emotion. Every single one of them felt like it could have been fleshed out into a full length novel. And all of them had such an incredible sense of place and community and the immigrant experience. Glorious, from start to finish.
Muito bom. Os contos são ágeis. Os primeiros bons, no meio fica morno e no final é uma porrada atrás da outra. Achei um primeiro contato positivo com os textos da Chimamanda e agora quero ver como ela se organiza em narrativas longas.
As usual, Adichie didn't disappoint.
I read the first three stories and I am just not getting on with this at the moment. I might come back to it at a later point.
Again, in Arrangers of Marriages, a young bride discovers that all is different in America when her new husband tells her, “You don’t understand how it works in this country.
Many have fled or want to flee because of violence – a young woman whose four-year-old son was killed before her eyes, for instance, in The American Embassy.
Also, I enjoyed reading about the contrast of living in Nigeria like in 'Cell One' where the local boys 'grown up watching Sesame Street, reading Enyd Blyton' were now 'cutting through the mosquito netting of their neighbours' windows, sliding out glass louvers, and climbing in to steal TVs and VCRs.' And how in 'American Embassy' where the soldiers and their lack of compassion can be seen in the line 'the soldier was flogging a bespectacled man with a long whip' WHILE PEOPLE WATCHED and the corruption of how 'our people have become too used to pleading with the soldiers.' The struggle just feels so real and authentic.

A fine collection of stories which confirms Adichie is equally adept at short fiction as at the novel. Most of these stories are set in modern times, largely among Nigerian emigres in America. She can tackle serious and humorous subjects with the same light touch and apparently effortless storytelling.
Some of the stories are placed in Nigeria, and the authentic detail is marvelous, and some of the stories are of Nigerian immigrants living uneasily in America, uncertain of acceptance by neighbors and employers, while struggling with unfamiliar foods and social customs.
It was as if he was performing his life instead of living his life.""How can you love somebody and yet want to manage the amount of happiness that person is allowed?""She wanted to interrupt and tell him how unnecessary it was, ths bloodying and binding, this turning faith into a pugilistic exercise; to tell him that life was a struggle with ourselves more than a spear-wielding Satan; that belief was a choice for our conscience always to be sharpened.""You wanted to write that rich Americans were thin and poor Americans were fat...""You did not know that people could simply choose not to go to school, that people could dictate to life.
These, by now, are familiar stories of immigrants to America adjusting to a clash of cultures, which exposes faults on both sides and tests relationships.
The stories set wholly in Africa detailing close scrapes with civil war/unrest in Nigeria, or its prison system or, eg, a queue outside the American embassy in Lagos studiously ignoring the 'soldier flogging a bespectacled man with a long whip that curled in the air' reminded me of Uwem Akpan's 'Say You're One of Them' but Akpan's work, despite many faults, has a richness and immediacy not quite achieved here.
The title story uses the to-me-now-irritating second person, a la Lorrie Moore and others, again to good but too familiar effect.
So good stories well told but for me overshadowed by other writers covering similar ground.
Adichie explores effect of politics, social changes, consumerism, familial conflicts, Africa as a unit vs. Africa as seen by outside world, alienation in a foreign land, cultural diversity, ethnicity within the borders, moving to America for a better future, etc. She uses these themes to expose humanity in sometimes gut wrenching and mostly realistic depiction of people. She is a great observer of life and people around her.  "Cell One"  is story of a handsome college student from a respectable
, a married woman living in America decides to go back home to Lagos, Nigeria when she finds out that her husband has moved his girlfriend to their Nigerian home.
Though the story ends in a tragic note, Adichie leaves us with hope.We all meet people whom we have left behind in our past life - some willingly and many because of circumstances.
is a story about guilt, repercussions and lies a ten year old can say that can change the family forever.Adichie takes us back to turbulent times in Nigeria when society and people at large were caught between old tradition and newly emerging cosmopolitanism.
