https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/28187230-the-woman-in-cabin-10
It also felt like a not as good carbon copy of  The Girl on the Train.
It felt like the author just replaced a few facts with similar enough things..changed the train into a luxury cruise liner.
She calls security to report what happened, but there's nothing in cabin 10.
So I felt like we took Lo and made her unlikable and unreliable in the same way that was done in  The Girl on the Train.
I couldn't see the logic in her head even with all that she had going on.Plus her ex-boyfriend happens to be one of the other reporters on board adding a dose of drama.
Thank you Netgalley for my copy in exchange for a fair and honest review.I should start by saying I ended up not reading the author's first book, In a Dark, Dark Wood, because someone I know spoiled the whole "big twist" for me.
I always like being taken off my game so this was a positive for me; however, I can already see many people having a problem with not only this twist, but the whole dang book because everything was very unrealistic.THINGS I DISLIKED:Lo Blacklock.
A turn of the doorknob reveals a man completely encased in a cocoon of black clothing and wearing latex gloves.
The door slams and Lo is locked inside.Later, Lo is able to break out of her bedroom prison.
She runs next door to Cabin 10 to alert the woman who had just loaned her a mascara earlier in the evening.
No one is there and no passenger has been booked for that cabin.
Self-doubt wants to take permanent residence inside her already fragile mind taunt with high-pitched anxiety.Ruth Ware provides an easy, quick writing style.
I hate thrillers with a good plot but has terrible characters.
This novel has terrible characters and a mediocre plot.
That event made her paranoid and affected most of what happens next in the novel.
I've read way better thrillers with cliches plot than this.
I firmly believe that it wouldn't have made a difference if I read this, because I would be equally annoyed with the outcome, and the main character.After days of contemplating ,I can't give this more than 1 star.
If only I could forget about novels, this would be a good use of that ability.
Deep sixing this one. Read only 14% so not rating it. Not feeling it and to be honest the dialogue just seems corny.
I have always wanted to take a luxury cruise and so the plot of this book intrigued me.I was actually going to read Dark Dark Wood prior to reading this novel.
I had a few minor issues with the plot and a hard time with Lo's character at first ....but she grew on me.Honestly, the suspense was good and I had no idea what was going to happen next but I definitely wanted to find out.All in all this was a creepy (in a good way) and entertaining read, and I look forward to reading more from this author.I would like to thank Goodreads Giveaways for my copy of this book in exchange for an honest review.
I know, that almost never happens =) Then I thought this was just going to be a lets all get drunk at all times and then say stupid things and yell at boyfriend and get drunk some more and see a body on a ship, the end, goodbye.
I wanted to get to the ship and see what was going on.
Then throughout the book there were reports of Lo Blacklock's death and they found a body and I was like, "What?"It's all crazy train, er, crazy boat, but I did enjoy it.
I smacked my head on a low hanging light fitting earlier so am particularly grumpy, but here's what irked me about this book: Whining protagonist, too anxious (and irritating) to function.Plot holes bigger than the Grand Canyon. Every character unlikable.Glossed over sexual assault. Took Forever to get going.That ENDING, I hurt my eyes rolling them so hard.Guess what Lo Blacklock? I wouldn't have believed you either.The end.
If I’m being totally honest, I didn’t go into this book with the highest of expectations.
This one on the other hand - it totally worked for me.A cruise ship in the middle of the ocean turned out to be the perfect setting for a chilling tale.
“Sorry, I know this sounds really weird, but I wondered if I could borrow some mascara?”
I can tell you the author did a great job of making me question everyone.
Then I felt like maybe I was the one that was confused.I was back and forth so many times with my theories and in the end - I was wrong.
I struggled with it a bit, but I enjoyed the ending overall.TW: home invasion, anxiety (panic attacks), substance abuse, lowkey sexual assaultI feel as if this is one of those books that I don't have much to say on.
She suffers from a lot of stigma as a result of her medication, but she continues to be confident in her decisions related treatment and that really pleased me.There is a non-consensual groping scene that was swept under the rug, which made me very uncomfortable.
Non-consensual touching should never be dismissed so easily.Overall, a mostly enjoyable read.
3.5 stars "There’s a reason why we keep thoughts inside our heads for the most part—they’re not safe to be let out in public."  Laura "Lo" Blacklock just won the career lottery - her pregnant boss can no longer attend the Aurora cruise. Instead, her boss sends Lo as the magazine's representative to the maiden voyage.  “For a travel journalist I’m worryingly bad at geography.”  The ship is full of rich socialites, intrepid reporters and world-renowned rich folks - the perfect people to wine &
Right before she sets off - her apartment is broken into, and she feels fear like she's never felt it before.The very first night, she borrows mascara from the woman in cabin 10 (hey-o it's the title!).
Later that night, Lo hears a splash outside and sees what looks like a body sinking beneath the waves.Only, when she raises the alarm...everyone on the ship is accounted for.
I know what she must have felt like, when someone came for her in the middle of the night.
This was set in England/Norway and the accents sounded rather good (to my untrained ear).
4 Stars.Very Suspenseful!Lo Blacklock is a travel journalist who is invited to go aboard the Aurora Borealis to do a story on the new ship for her magazine.
Lo thinks a week away on a luxury cruise liner sounds like a dream come true.
Her work assignment is the last thing on her mind.
That night, she has trouble sleeping and Lo is certain that someone was tossed off of the balcony from Cabin 10.
If she isn’t, how come no one can corroborate her story?
Ruth Ware did a great job in keeping me on the edge of my seat.
How about throwing in a line like “I explained what I had seen to the ship’s security officer but he didn’t believe me, even insinuating doubt by mentioning the booze I’d had that night and looking toward the pills by the sink” to skip over it all?Then we have to sit through page after page of Laura and the security officer meeting the staff to see if the woman in cabin 10 isn’t one of them – even though the reader knows it’s not going to be that easy and nothing interesting happens during the interviews to make doing so worthwhile anyway.
This started out so strong, it was well paced and suspenseful... then it took a turn and got seriously weird and ridiculous.
Let’s talk about all the shitty ass ways this book copies The Girl on the Train, a 2015 novel that I have an immense distaste for.
The Girl on the Train was a shitty book.
But in books like these we know from the beginning that they’re unreliable and that they might be hallucinating it all.
That no author is going to end the book with “yup, they hallucinated that all.” Because then how can you market it to work-tired middle-aged readers to bring on their Bahamas trip?
For example, let’s say your lead character looooooooves her boyfriend.
When disaster happens to THE WOMAN IN CABIN 10, journalist Laura (Lo) Blacklock witnesses it, but unfortunately does not stay silent, (no spoiler here) and her life aboard the Aurora evolves into a complicated series of mishaps.Between panic attacks from not taking her meds and warnings to back off on her sleuthing, Lo drinks too much, hardly eats, rarely sleeps and gets into loads of trouble.
She does have a great boyfriend at home, Judah, a cat named Delilah and an ex to deal with aboard ship with some comical encounters, but......
no one to trust.An attention getter from the get-go, with a little twist along the way made for an entertaining read that I actually enjoyed more than IN THE DARK, DARK WOOD.
This one though was fast-paced and had me entertained and engaged right from the very first chapter.THE WOMAN IN CABIN 10 by RUTH WARE was a chilling and suspenseful thriller with the perfect setting for a mystery on a small luxurious cruise liner with only 10 cabins set to sail from London to Norway.
Although there were a few things that happened in this book that I felt were never answered or was missing from the plot.The ENDING was intense, exciting, and very satisfying with a surprising twist for another enjoyable read.To sum it all up it was an entertaining, enjoyable, suspenseful, fast-paced, quick and easy read with a twist ending.
As soon as I started reading this and posting statuses, I got several replies about how much people did not like this book.
It feels like it was intentionally written to fit in with the Gone Girl/The Girl on the Train genre.
I do think that the general idea of how a mystery-on-a-boat was presented did feel unique and there were a few surprises that caught me off guard.Do I recommend: Did you like Gone Girl/The Girl on the Train?
You might like this (FYI – I hated Girl On The Train, but thought Gone Girl was okay).
This book was a wild ride.
THE WOMAN IN CABIN 10 is Ruth Ware's second thriller, and I enjoyed this one even more than her debut, IN A DARK, DARK WOOD.
The excursion is lovely at first, but Lo's fun comes to an end when she sees a woman tossed overboard from the cabin next door.I really enjoyed the setting of this mystery.
Lo's character was kind of a mess, always teetering on the brink madness, which was understandable given the circumstances.
4.5 stars!Disclosure: I received a copy of this book from the publisher through Edelweiss in exchange for an honest review.
The author, Ruth Ware, does a fantastic job of creating an extremely vivid atmosphere - I felt like I was a passenger on the cruise ship observing the story unfold.
I had a hard time putting this book down as the suspense starting building from chapter one and didn't stop until the very last page of the book.
I found myself getting confused at times trying to keep track of the secondary characters on the cruise ship.
Another small issue I had was accepting the fact that someone would actually knock on a neighbouring cruise ship door to ask to borrow mascara from a stranger (which is a pivotal point in the plot).
The bad It's a real pity that the author used so many awful descriptions of weight and illness. It's not exactly shaming, but the language serves to dehumanize people who are fat, very thin, or ill.-One character is described as "wearing jewelry weighing more than she did," (p. 58) and we're constantly reminded of all her jutting, sharp features.-Describing fat characters as being "the size of a walrus" (p. 58, 178) happens more than once. We're frequently reminded at how easily one overweight
It's not exactly shaming, but the language serves to dehumanize people who are fat, very thin, or ill.-One character is described as "wearing jewelry weighing more than she did," (p.
And her thinness is frequently described using the word "skull" - a literal symbol of death.This certainly isn't the only book to use these types of descriptions, but I'm just saying it made me uncomfortable while reading.
I do want to read more mysteries by this author, but I will approach her books cautiously to see if those types of descriptions continue.
Let's start off by saying, I read this book and I'm not mad about it.
Not my favorite book ever but they can't all clobber us over the head.
I wasn't really invested in it until the reveal.
Without giving anything away, I would just say the reveal and events leading to the final conclusion were much more compelling than the build-up to the reveal.
During the build-up, I had moments of, "who cares?!
Quit your whining!" and then the reveal happened and I was like, "hold up now, that's kind of interesting...".
No. Will I read another Ruth Ware book?
The Woman in Cabin 10 by Ruth Ware is a thriller set aboard a luxury cruise ship.
Being one that loves cruising this has been on my list to read since I first heard about the book for two reasons, one I've heard great things about the writer and two I can't help but be drawn to a story set at sea.
The first thing I noticed picking this one up is that people are perfectly right, Ruth Ware is a talented writer as it didn't take long at all to become immersed in the story.
I was really looking forward to this one, as I loved In a Dark, Dark Wood.
I devoured that one in a single sitting.
I have to say, lately, it seems like the books that I really look forward to have been letting me down, but luckily, not this one - I loved it!
I had to force myself to take breaks, so I could also enjoy my family over the holiday weekend.
Meanwhile, even without the book in hand, it remained in my head - kept me guessing - even had me trying to play a game of guess whodunit at work with my coworkers yesterday.
The big question is how do you rate a book like this? To be absolutely honest I ploughed through the first half thinking how poor the dialogue was, how irritating the MC was and pretty much why am I bothering with this book. And then suddenly it became tense and exciting and the MC got her act together (more or less) and then the ending was brilliant!!! The last bit (view spoiler)[ "Tiggers bounce" (hide spoiler)] loved it:)So how do you rate a book which is basically only adequate but which has
The big question is how do you rate a book like this?
To be absolutely honest I ploughed through the first half thinking how poor the dialogue was, how irritating the MC was and pretty much why am I bothering with this book.
The last bit (view spoiler)[ "Tiggers bounce"  (hide spoiler)] loved it:)So how do you rate a book which is basically only adequate but which has a wonderful ending?
Well I went out on a high and that's the bit you remember best so - 4 stars from me.
A so-so mystery with an unreliable narrator that takes place, for the most part, on a boat.
It was ok thriller, but I would never have read it without the encouragement of my book club.In the desperate search for "the next Gone Girl", The Woman in Cabin 10 was put forward as an option.
The next Gone Girl or Hunger Games will be so clearly original and ground-breaking that it couldn't be titled the next fill-in-the-blank.And, with that sort of hype, it put an expectation on this story that it didn't live up to.
That's what I thought.Plus, the "unreliable narrator" thing has been done.
The Hook The primary location of The Woman in Cabin 10 is the maiden voyage of boutique luxury cruise ship seeking the Northern Lights and the break-taking Norwegian Fjords.
A tad repetitive, with just the right amount of tense buildup, The Woman in Cabin 10 managed to keep me thinking while listening.(view spoiler)[Why the spoiler?
This did not for one minute ruin my enjoyment of The Woman in Cabin 10.
His opinion was that it wasn’t a matter of whether you saw the twist coming, but one of whether the twist brought the story forward to a logical and interesting end.
The Woman in Cabin 10 lives up to this theory.
But when she went to get the help they found nothing and they told her that that cabin has been empty.
There was no guest in that cabin!
But how is that possible because she’d spoken to the guest of cabin 10 that night!
But another thing is that she was drunk that night and she takes antidepressants, so can her words be trusted?!This was my second book by this author and I enjoyed it even more than the first one.
The thing that I like about Ms. Ware is her writing!
This book is marketed as a thriller, and I didn't find it to be exceptionally thrilling but it was suspenseful enough that I had a hard time putting it down.
What did I think?: Is it the best book I've ever read?
Yes. Do I still think it's one of my favorite books?
Yes, I still really enjoyed reading it and in this case I was pretty happy that things worked out in the way I had thought.
Who should read it?: If you like thrillers and suspense, this is one that you should definitely check out.
This is a fun whodunit that kept me turning the pages.
But I give credit to Ware -- her story kept me turning the pages to see how the mystery would be solved.
But I'd skip it if you're taking a cruise -- you might get paranoid about those strange noises next door...Favorite Quote"I love ports.
Maybe it's years of taking the ferry to France for summer holidays, but a harbor gives me a feeling of freedom in a way that an airport never does.
