https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3705.The_Third_Man_The_Fallen_Idol
This introduction is insightful but it revealed the plot and climax of both the stories as did the respective prefaces by the author, so I strongly suggest that you come back to these after reading the stories.
He is a pretty decent man.Rollo Martins – writer of cheap westerns, almost a pauper, a harmless drunk with some women problems but overall a good man arrives at post WWII Vienna on the invitation of his childhood hero and friend Harry Lime.
I don’t know if my review has done justice to this brilliant story, but if you like chilling stories then please give it a reading.
But who is the unknown Third man?The Fallen Idol, originally called The Basement Room, is about a young boy, Philip who is left in the care of a Butler and his wife while his parents are away on a fortnight's holiday.
This is all too much for young Philip to handle and circumstances spiral out of control.Both The Third Man and The Fallen Idol are really short and quick reads - 130 pages for the two together but Greene packs a punch.
This is a slim little book, but the two stories in it pack quite a wallop. One, is, of course, the more famous, the basis for The Third Man movie. The other was also made into a movie, but is not as well known. Note: The rest of this review has been withdrawn due to the changes in Goodreads policy and enforcement. You can read why I came to this decision here.In the meantime, you can read the entire review at Smorgasbook
It's simply because the film (on which Greene closely collaborated with Reed) is, as Greene points out in his preface, 'in this case the finished state of the story', whereas the book version is merely an earlier draft -- a solid draft, but an unfinished one nonetheless.As for the second, much shorter story in the book, 'The Fallen Idol', this is a tragedy about an innocent child who gets caught up in the nasty games adults play and ends up accidentally handing his best friend over to the police.
both stories are excellent and I loved them both. Graham Greene is a master storyteller, and is a genius at characterization - and from what I can see, much more about people than plot. It is just a crying shame that he's not as widely read as he should be. I'll be linking this post directly to my reading journal, since I wrote about this book and The Ministry of Fear together. So read on:http://www.crimesegments.com/2017/03/...
It is no surprise that The Third Man as a novel remains inchoate.
It is a signpost, a germinating seed carelessly pitched in frustrated haste.
Where does it lead, what will grow?
The film’s images travel in any reader’s bloodstream.
Cotten, Howard and Welles occupy the dialogue.
Greene’s descriptions are wan and undeveloped.
What then can possibly pierce a contemporary reader?
The crux of The Third Man is the death of loyalty.
Reason and Ideology may trade blows in a makeshift ring, governed in an incomprehensible language, what matters is friendship, right?
Even loyalties forged over a lifetime become suspect in the murky reality of postwar Vienna.
112)Alliteratively speaking, the first boldly keeps us alert with 'a torn tired tricolour flag,' 'winking white eyes' whereas the second with 'drawing-room doorway,' 'the first floor,' 'a canary's cage' and 'bread and butter'.
I mean the repetition of consonants at the beginning of two or more words immediately succeeding each other; therefore, I've found the first narrating 'a torn tired tricolour flag' (without commas!) more pleasing, more figurative and more appreciative to read than 'drawing-room doorway' and the others.
The Third Man & The Fallen Idol (formerly The Basement Room) share in common theme - being the basis for films directed by Carol Reed.
The famous Harry Lime theme was discovered by Reed during his visit with Greene to Vienna when developing the plot.
Greene could always describe this type of situation perfectly & the story is fast paced and natural and ugly.The Fallen Idol (a title I do prefer) was written in the steamer on Greene's return from Liberia in the mid 30s.
You feel nothing but compassion for Philip & his loss of childlike innocence.The title "Fallen Idol" is actually appropriate to both stories.
Much preferred The Third Man to the shorter novella The Fallen Idol but that's just reader preference.
Loved the dark, seedy atmosphere of The Third Man and the setting of Vienna after the war.
For such a short novella there is everything a mystery/thriller could want.
Excellent plot, a hint of romance a "true" villain and wonderful characterisation.
Fallen Idol had a touch of "Mrs Danvers" from Rebecca I felt.
Didn't feel the story was quite long enough to bring those dark overtones to the fore.
Interesting concept but fell a bit flat for this reader.
The story was written as a premise to the screenplay for the movie,and the movie came out before the book....both are excellent. See the film,and then read it.....Also enjoyed THE FALLEN IDOL.I am a Graham Greene fan!
Do yourself a favor and rent it and treat yourself to one of the greatest films of all time.If you have at least seen the movie, and preferably also read the novella (which was published a year after the film was released), then treat yourself to this brilliant analysis below comparing the two.
I recently saw the film again for the first time in 20 years and wanted to read the novella for additional detail.
Both the film and novella provided excellent insights into the Lime I know.http://www.avclub.com/article/third-m...
I really like Greene and am not sure why I haven't read more of his work - it is something I must put right.
After watching the film of 'The Third Man', I turned to this book which contains the original novella (amazingly, Greene wrote this just so that he could adapt it for the screenplay!) and another shorter story which was also adapted for a film directed by Carol Reed, 'The Fallen Idol'.
I haven't seen the latter film as yet, but both stories are beautifully written with not a word wasted, and both are very bleak in different ways.
Love the way Graham Greene writes. He tells the story - no fuss, no nonsense - and tells it so well that you're there, in that time and place. Two very different stories in this volume, but both excellent.
The Third Man and The Fallen Idol هذه النصوص كتبت للشاشة في الأصل وخاصة فيلم (The Third Man) والذي يلعب دور البطولة فيه (أورسون ويلز)، تدور أحداث الرواية في مدينة فيينا المحتلة والمقسمة بين الحلفاء والتي يصلها روائي مغمور يدعى (رولو مارتنز) بدعوة من صديقه (هاري لايم)، يكتشف مارتنز أن لايم قتل في حادث سيارة قبل وصوله بأيام قليلة، يبدأ عندها في تحقيقات يحاول فيها كشف ملابسات مقتل صديقه، ويضع نظرية الرجل الثالث الغامض والذي يرغب في كشف هويته، أجمل ما في الرواية هو مشهد المطاردة في أنفاق المجاري تحت فيينا.
There seems to be a whole business about "The Third Man" which is still going on in Vienna long after the release of Carol Reed's movie based on a script by Graham Greene.
The greatest temptation I renounced to was the purchase of dusty old copy of "The Dritte Man", the German translation of what Graham Greene wrote.
And here we are with this Third Man (I'm sorry for you fans of "The Fallen Idol", but there is no room in this review for it).Graham Greene wrote a brilliant spy story with a perceivable coldness and discomfort feeling in it.
I have to say that I didn't really enjoy the story that much, as it felt a little sparse and rushed in the way a film idea would I imagine normally sound.
Although I've heard great things about the film, and definitely want to check it out, I didn't enjoy the story as much because I found it surprisingly difficult to follow.
It was only around 30 pages, but I found myself intensely interested in what would happen, and it was definitely a page-turner in a way that The Third Man just wasn't.I may well check out more Graham Greene in the future, but not for a little while, as this wasn't exactly an inspiring start for me.
Greene actually states that "The Third Man" was never intended to be read; it was written as a screenplay for the film and a basis on which to discuss how the plot should, or would, unfold.
Already, at the start, we have that sense of deja vu and yet, because it IS Greene, after all, the story maintains its hold on you and keeps you interested throughout.
This is Greene at his very best; rich language, superb attention to detail, a flowing story seen through the eyes of an interested observer.
The language Greene uses is by no means childlike.
My review is more for The Third Man, rather than The Fallen Idol which I didn’t care for.Set in post-war Vienna, The Third Man concerns Rollo Martins who has come to the city to visit his long-time friend Harry Lime.
Before long, Martins uncovers aspects of his death which are suspicious and goes around the city looking for witnesses to once and for all find out what happened to his friend.Greene strikes again with his wonderful prose and his well-thought out story.
I also read The Fallen Idol, which I must say I did not enjoy really.
Before writing the screenplay for The Third Man, Graham Greene worked out the atmosphere, characterization and mood of the story by writing a novella.
Penguin Classics published it in paperback with the short story The Fallen Idol.
The film and the book take place in post-World-War-II Vienna.
The short story, The Fallen Idol, is about how Philip, a seven-year-old, gets involved in a crime of passion.
Surprisingly, The Fallen Idol was Greene's favorite among the films he wrote.
He preferred it even to The Third Man. There isn’t much to the short story and I can’t imagine it being much of a film.
The Third Man is quite a different beast to the film, but I liked it just as much. The Fallen Idol I didn't know; it's a sad and uncomfortable story about a small boy who will be affected for the rest of his life by events he doesn't properly understand.
I am beginning to be a fan of Graham Greene...

The Third Man was originally a movie before a novella, and The Fallen Idol a short story before a movie.
I recommend, however, The Third Man novella and The Fallen Idol the movie.
I would have been happy with giving this review five stars, but The Fallen Idol the short story didn't reach that level of greatness.
etc.Short reads, one's a movie--highly recommended for Greene fans who've run out of the great Catholic novels to read.
Reading  The Third Man made me want to rethink my previous dislike for Graham Greene, which was mostly based on reading  The Heart of the Matter in high school and hating it.
I would say I was biased in favor of The Third Man because I love the movie so much, but Greene’s responsible for that too, and both are wonderful: cynical, mysterious and dark, but not without humor.
Except in regards to one thing: The Third Man is really frickin’ good.

The Third Man is an entertaining and likeable novella, slightly ruined for me since I already saw the film and had the theme music stuck in my head the entire read. Doo da doo da-doo da-doo da-doo...I was more caught off guard with The Fallen Idol, which is an equally dark but more poignant short, in which it offers no clear judgements against any character, each flawed and miserable in their own way, and creates a brilliantly paced, quite believeable and bleak tragedy of innocence and hope lost. Doo da doo da-doo da-doo da-doo...
Greene gives wonderful notes on the background of these short stories- and how they came to be turned into excellent films. The Fallen Idol is more satisfying as it was truly written as a short story, where The Third Man was written as a screen treatment.
More the core of a story and its characters than anything else. In these things he succeeds wonderfully, as usual. The characters' strange tics, vanities, delusions, idiosyncrasies. Can tell it was meant as a starting point for the screenplay, however.
'The Third Man and The Fallen Idol' by Graham Greene is first published in 1954. It's not one of his best books...
Thus, Rollo Martins, through his naive beliefs, points towards a better world.When Major Calloway informs Rollo Martins that Harry Lime, “was about the worst racketeer who ever made a dirty living in this city,” (Greene, 25) Martins is entirely unwilling to accept this fact, even though it comes from a police officer, a person of authority.
At this moment Calloway thinks, “Martins, I began to realize, was dangerous.” Martins dangerousness, however, does not simply boil down to his propensity towards violence, rather it has more to do with his unwillingness to accept information, his questioning of authority, and his resolute belief that Harry Lime is a good man, a victim of police incompetency.
