https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/333766.Banner_in_the_Sky
Although James Ramsey Ullman's 1955 Newbery Honour winning Banner in the Sky is at times a bit dated (but considering that it is set in 19th century Switzerland, much of said datedness actually does make rather much historic and cultural sense), the novel is in many ways a truly delightful and even for our times, even for the 21st century, sill relevant coming of age story (of how Rudi Matt desires and manages to pay homage to the memory of the father he has never known by attempting to conquer the Citadel, but more importantly, how Rudi becomes a man by learning and taking to heart important lessons regarding honour, courage and that indeed being a good citizen, being helpful and caring even when this might impede one's own desires and wishes makes one, renders one into a good and decent citizen, a productive and appreciated, beloved member of society as a whole).
I've read this book before, and I have always loved it.
A teacher back in middle school made us read this book and it has always stuck with me.
Sometime last year I purchased this book and it has been sitting on my shelf for some time.
I am currently re-reading it and I am enjoying just as much as I did when I had read it years ago.
If you like adventure books and maybe books about foreign places, this is the book for you.
Well at least try it.
It's not a fast paced read, but it keeps you interested.
I thought that this Newbery honor book was going to be just another boy's historical adventure, and that I'd get fed up with it and choose to DNF.
I was wrong.It is an adventure.
But it's about a 16 yo boy who, through the course of the book, becomes a man.
Not only does the boy have trouble *doing* the right thing, but *all* the people have trouble *knowing* the right thing.
There are questions not only of courage, but of honor, loyalty, identity, brotherhood.
Small-scale politics and economics even play a role.And yet it's still a very readable adventure.
Teen males, of course.
Rudi would still sneak off to the citadel to try and climb up the glacier and find a route up to the fortress, the place his father died.
Then Rudi's uncle and other guides come up to the cabin to try to take Rudi back and then take the other two men down with them too.
Then the men climb up past the fortress, then past the needle, which they couldn't have done without Rudi, and then they made it to the top and Rudi's "banner" was hung at the summit.In the book, there were a lot of lessons that were kind of hidden and said in different words.
Banner in the Sky radiates with an instinctive accuracy, and it is clear the the author’s own adventurous life and mountaineering background serve him well, as he plunges us into a dizzying and frozen world.
The thin rope cutting into our waist is the only thing that makes the difference between balance – and an endless plunge.
We feel the ice-wind slicing through us, feel the blue sky that is bluest of all in a mountain shining on us, feel the savage storm screaming in our ears .
When Joe told me that this was one of his favorite books, I immediately got it at the library and LOVED it!
It is a great book about mountain climbing, lots of cool techinical stuff for mountaineers like Joe, yet understandable for those of us with no mountain climbing experience.
It's a beautiful story about conquering fear, working toward a goal, the effects of selfishness and the rewards of selflessness, banding together for the common good, and so much more.
In his introduction, the author said he hopes that the story makes for "good climbing".
A junior high school required text. Very fond of it then and one of the early indications my life would be filled with books.
that God intended for men; and there are some things that he did not.
that men should set themselves against the will of God." Shrine is mentioned and a boy prays there.
A boy, when caught in a lie, repents and asks Jesus and "loving Mary" to forgive him, stating that he is "wicked." Demons are mentioned, as well as men "crossing themselves" in religious ceremony.
Ok, so this is a book for 6th - 8th graders that I was assigned to read for a course I am teaching this summer, and I expected to get through it, but I did not expect to enjoy the book as much as I did.
This is an exciting coming-of-age adventure about rock climbing that kept me in suspense and surprise the entire read.
While the strange forged friendships of the book are enjoyable, the true beauty of this book lies in the main character Rudi’s solo climbing adventures.
In the end, the best friendship forged is the one between the reader and Rudi.
This can at times, seemingly lag the story behind as the descriptions never seem to end.The main character Rudi is an interesting character as we see throughout the course of the story how he grows and changes as a person.
By the end of the story we are rooting for these characters, we want to see them succeed, as we see what it would mean if they didn’t.I recommend this book to fans of realistic fiction or people who want stories that have characters that grow and change throughout the story.
Sixteen-year-old Rudi Matt works as a hotel dishwasher in the 19th Century Swiss village of Kurtal.
Two were carried down dead: Guide Josef Matt, Rudi's father, and his client, a great English mountaineer.Rudi understands why his mother forbids him to follow his father's profession, even though her brother - Rudi's Uncle Franz - is one of Kurtal's most successful guides.
Rudi will learn the hotel business, first in Kurtal and later in Zurich.
The Citadel waits to be climbed, and Josef Matt's son knows he's the man who must climb it.It's smoothly yet colorfully written, and anyone whose youthful dreams a careful parent couldn't share is sure to experience Rudi's coming of age right along with him.
Its about a boy named Rudi Matt. His dad died trying to climb the citadel. He wants to climb to the top of the mountain and put a red flannel shirt. The shirt symbolizes his dads goal that he wants to complete. At the end he dosen't make it to the top. He stays back with Saxo. Captain winters and Uncle franz went to the top and said Rudi went to the top and put the red shirt.
Book Review For Banner In the Sky He went up. The red flannel shirt shakes wildly on the summit of the Citadel. He went down, down and down. Down to the Citadel.The first peak of the Scandinavian sun light melts the flimsy layer of the pure snow on the Citadel's summit, on the summit was hope, it was the dream for several generations on kurtalers, it was supposed to be Rudi's mountain, but now, the summit was silence, the silence of death, I will wait, wait for Rudi Matt. I peacefully closed the

If you like a book with mostly character description more than action this might be a book you’ll enjoy.Banner in the Sky is based on a boy named Rudi Matt.
Rudi’s mom wanted Rudi to only wash dishes in a hotel, and nothing else, but Rudi disobeyed his mother’s orders and climbed mountains instead of washing dishes.Banner in the Sky isn’t a really interesting book.
The book basically talks about him climbing the mountain, and how excited he was and how he transitioned to tired.
This book is more for people who don’t enjoy action as much.
I think that's a shame, because you'll have a hard time finding a book with more realistic adventure and excitement than this one.Banner in the Sky takes place in 1865 and is the story of sixteen year old Rudi Matt.
He feels a powerful pull to climb the mountains surrounding his village and desperately wants to be a mountain guide like his uncle is and his father was.
However, I think anyone who likes stories of adventure and exploration would enjoy Banner in the Sky. The book is full of interesting and distinct characters, none of whom are perfect, but all of whom have their own good qualities.
Banner in the Sky is an adventure/survival fiction book about a boy on a journey to conquer the Citadel.
Rudi’s dad was a famous mountaineer who died while climbing the Citadel.
Rudi saves Captain Winter’s life when he is stuck in a glacier and finds out that Captain Winter also wants to climb the Citadel.
Will they reach the Summit and overcome the many obstacles such as the harsh weather conditions, the limited amount of food, and Rudi’s little experience in mountain climbing?
Also he uses easy language and words pertaining to mountain climbing.
I would recommend this book to people who like survival/adventure books or like mountain climbing.
This story is about a kid named Rudi who wants to climb this large mountain called the Citadel that is close to his hometown.
Many obstacles are faced while climbing setting Rudi back on trying to be the first person to reach the top of the mountain.
I can not personally relate to anything this story has too offer in terms of relativity to my life but I enjoyed the book.
I would recommend this book to people who enjoy a nice story of overcoming large obstacles to reach a goal cause this is what this story was.
There was certainly an intensity to the writing, and I felt I was there climbing along with them.
One, that despite the times he had been disobedient and had lied to his mother and uncle and shirked his other duties, he had changed.
This simple action proved again that he was a true guide of Kurtal, that he had changed and was more mature.
He proved that he had integrity.
Two, it showed once again that he hadn't climbed the Citadel because he craved attention or recognition.
He didn't need to prove himself to anyone else.
They don't need anyone else to validate them.

This book deserves to be a Newbery Honor book because it is truly inspiring.
The book had a great plot were a sixteen year old boy named Rudi, the protagonist faces many challenges in his way to scale great summit of the Citadel completing the quest that claimed his father's life.
If Banner in the Sky was a series, I would probably continue reading the series because each book would be interesting, full of challenges that Rudi must face to reach the top of the Citadel, yet still remain determined until the end.
If you are looking for a book that is motivating and uplifting, I would recommend this book for you.
Great book!
This is a book that I would have never picked up to read, but it was in Elyssa home school curriculum.
Once Elyssa and I got into the book (it did have a slow start) it was very hard to put down.
It was also the type of book that I found myself thinking about when I was not reading the book, which I think is a sign of a good book.
Elyssa and I found that we also discussed the book when we were not reading it.
An fun note is that this book was made into a movie.
We have not watched the movie, but it is in our nextfix cue.
This one was part of a group of books on a world history reading list from Sonlight. I usually enjoy the books from that list, but this one just rubbed me wrong constantly. The protagonist was always waffling and not in any sense of nobility. A young boy left his mother and uncle and went off into the mountains alone. Selfishness abounds in this story. It was published in the 50s and the only female in the whole story is the boy's mother who is a very one dimensional character.
This was a required summer reading for my sixth-grader and we both enjoyed it a lot for the adventure, the suspense , and the determination that the young boy showed. Created discussions about a person's values and family honor but also about not giving up on your passions and dreams because other people may be afraid to do it themselves.
An inspiring story of courage, this YA novel tells of a teen who decides to climb the mountain his father died attempting to climb. The banner is his father's red shirt. There is a Disney movie that goes along with this book.
I didn't like this book very much at all. This book was really boring for me it was like blah blah blah. It was about this boy named Rudi Matt. His father tried climbing the Citadel the most feared mountain in all of Kurtal. The best part of this book for me was the last two chapters.
we had to read this for english and it was a pretty good book!
Banner in the Sky by James Ramsey Ullman follows a teenage boy named Rudi Matt and his journey on trying to climb the Citadel.
This Mountain took his fathers life 15 year earlier and Rudi Matt is super eager to climb it.
James Ramsey Ullman wrote the book in a third person perspective of his main character Rudi.
The whole book follows Rudi’s desire in avenging his fathers death by climbing what he could not.
Rudi’s uncle Franz is like a father figure to Rudi.
Franz is super supporting of Rudi and pushes him to climb and be just like his father.
The scene is 1865 Switzerland, a peaceful and happy little country at a time when unprecedented tumult was constantly threatening to blow up the United States in the era following the end of the Civil War. Far away from that mortal struggle, though, Rudi Matt is reaching adolescence, and his overwhelming natural desire to become a mountain climber is growing ever stronger.
James Ramsey Ullman could have hardly done a finer job in the creation of Banner in the Sky. It offers deep emotion, adventure sequences that blow away everything else I've read that was written in the same time period, resounding philosophical questions and crackling debates between the characters about matters esoteric and practical, but all having a huge impact on what's going to come next in the story.
His mother is determined he will not be a climber because she lost her husband, Rudi's father, to the mountain sixteen years ago.
With help from those who see his skill, and quite a few obstacles, he sets off to be the first to reach the Citadel's summit.Both a mountaineer and a journalist, Ullman is able to describe both the mountain and the climbing in a way that is easy to understand and a part of the action, never a detriment to the pace or the suspense.
The characters, setting, and story are rich and engaging.
This book is about 16 year-old Rudy Matt, the son of a legendary climber, Joseph Matt, who died trying to save someone else.
The mountain his own father had failed to climb.
Rudy’s Mother and uncle try to keep him home working at a hotel but Rudy sneaks off and practices climbing.
One night Rudy decides to sneak off and attempt to the climb the “in-climbable mountain,” the Citadel.
He fails but ends up saving a man’s life.
The man is Captain Winter another legendary climber determined to climb the Citadel.
Do they get to the top and live Joseph Matt’s life long dream?
