https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1169556.The_Broken_Ear
L'Oreille Cassee = The Broken Ear (Tintin, #6), Hergé The Broken Ear (French: L'Oreille cassée), also published as Tintin and the Broken Ear, is the sixth volume of The Adventures of Tintin, the comics series by Belgian cartoonist Hergé.
Commissioned by the conservative Belgian newspaper Le Vingtième Siècle for its children's supplement Le Petit Vingtième, it was serialised weekly from December 1935 to February 1937.
این داستان پس از چاپ هفتگی در سال 1937 میلادی به صورت کتاب هم منتشر شد.
گوش شکسته برای چاپ مجدد در سال 1943 میلادی به صورت رنگی درآمد و با صفحه‌ بندی جدید منتشر شد.
و انهم كانوا بيطلعونى من المكتبة بالعافية بعد الفسحه :))) ؟(ايام تكسف الصراحة) :))) ..طب قلتلكم كمان ان كان سبب تعاستى الأول لتخرجى من المدرسة الإعدادية انى موش هاعرف اقرا (تان تان) تانى :( لأنى مالقيتوش فى مكتبة ثانوى و لأنى ماكنتش بالقاه غير في مكتبة مدرستي الاعدادية بالذات عشان كان سلسله قديمة اوى من قبل مانتولد اصلا و كانوا بطلوا يبيعوها فى الوقت دا ، ..و انى كنت بافكر اروح مكتبة المدرسة و اعمل نفسي باسلم على المدرسين ، و خصوصا اخصائية المكتبة ؛) حبيبتي <3 عشان اقعد اقرا تان تان شويه !
It's been a while since I have read one of his adventures.
I guess like a lot of people, I first came across Tintin in the local library.
When a South American idol is stolen from the local museum Tintin is intrigued.
But, the next day, it is returned with an apology note.
But Tintin knows something is up, because the idol that was returned is not identical to the idol that was stolen.
What follows is an adventure into the heart of South America.
Tintin endears himself to a South American dictator.
Tintin goes in front of a firing squad.
শুরুর দিকের গলপগুলোর ছেলেমানুষী অসমভব ভাব কাটিয়ে উঠে আসতে আসতে গলপগুলো পরিণত হয়ে উঠছে। আমেরিকান পরোপাগানডার আরেকটা দিক এই গলপে উঠে এসেছে। তেলের খনি নিয়ে চলা বলিভিয়া আর পযারাগুয়ের মধযে চলা যুদধকে এখানে হারজ কালপনিক দুই দেশ সযান থিওডোরস আর নযুভো রিকো এর মধযে বিবাদের মাধযমে তুলে ধরেছেন। কীভাবে আমেরিকান তেল কোমপানিগুলো মুনাফার লোভে সাউথ আমেরিকান দেশগুলোর মধযে বিবাদ বাঁধিয়ে আবার নিজেরাই দুই পকষের কাছে আলাদা আলাদা ভাবে অসতর সরবরাহ করে দুই পকষ থেকেই ফায়দা লুটে নিচছে।
শুরুর দিকের গল্পগুলোর ছেলেমানুষী অসম্ভব ভাব কাটিয়ে উঠে আস্তে আস্তে গল্পগুলো পরিণত হয়ে উঠছে। আমেরিকান প্রোপাগান্ডার আরেকটা দিক এই গল্পে উঠে এসেছে। তেলের খনি নিয়ে চলা বলিভিয়া আর প্যারাগুয়ের মধ্যে চলা যুদ্ধকে এখানে হার্জ কাল্পনিক দুই দেশ স্যান থিওডোরস আর ন্যুভো রিকো এর মধ্যে বিবাদের মাধ্যমে তুলে ধরেছেন। কীভাবে আমেরিকান তেল কোম্পানিগুলো মুনাফার লোভে সাউথ আমেরিকান দেশগুলোর মধ্যে বিবাদ বাঁধিয়ে আবার নিজেরাই দুই পক্ষের কাছে আলাদা আলাদা ভাবে অস্ত্র সরবরাহ করে দুই পক্ষ থেকেই ফায়দা লুটে নিচ্ছে।
Any journalist in his position would start filing stories on their inside view of the new regime, but all Tintin can think of is how to get away and back to chasing the thieves.
Again, a great story lands in his lap, but instead he takes the moral high ground, making an enemy of the oil company and endangering his standing with the president!OK, so this is a kid's book and on the whole a good one.
The whole shady oil company business and the part about the arms dealer's literal double-dealing in the ensuing war is bold colonialist realpolitik for a children's book written in the 1940s.
Um boneco antigo foi roubado de um museu de segurança máxima e outro falso foi colocado em seu lugar. ..Qual o motivo desse artefato ser tão cobiçado? Tin tin e milu entram em cena para descobrir. .
there's still a lot of deus ex machina, but it was still fun

Very interesting plot as usual!!
Looks like this episode is on the phase where the entire adventures of tintin has took a greater leap forward!
Before this episode, the adventures were more of a luck rather than a true one!!
The acumen nature of tintin was very well described here and I found this book as the first of all!!However, at most parts the plot was completely irrelevant!
I felt bored at few pages in the middle!!
I can say that the reason for stealing the "fetish" was very interestingly explored by tintin and the narration was very nice!!
Another funny adventure by Tin-tin and Milu! The scenes in Latin America are really funny, especially when Alcazar takes Tin-tin for an admirer and decides to nominate him his Aide de Camp! Very funny and witty, as always. The relentless persecution by dutiful Dupond and Dupont continues, much for their own aggravation - in fact, they LIKE Tin-tin, and are still trying to detain him out of a sense of duty...Maria Carmo,Lisbon 6 January 2015.
وقتی اول دبستان بودم دایی بهم هدیه داد.
Tintin...one of my favorite comic-series, the graphics are so cute!
I love the dart guns and the crazy natives and the hiding place of the jewel in this one. As always, it's a hilarious, exciting adventure with Tintin. :)
This volume sees Tintin on the trail of a stolen idol from a South American native tribe.
There he arrives in the middle of an ongoing revolution not to mention potential war with a neighbouring country with this agenda being pushed by oil companies.
This was actually based on a real conflict between Bolivia and Paraguay and involving Shell and Standard Oil.Tintin eventually meets members of the tribe who the idol was made by.
There are some slight racist shades similar to Tintin in the Congo but not so blatant or sinister.
Although Tintin does disguise himself using blackface, the racism is dropping off.
Onwards to more Tintin!
Hergés early work, criticizing the mentality of North American oil companies' (and weapon industry) actions in South America (the fictive countries are loosly based on Paraguay and Bolivia).
Even though Herge shows scepticism towards North America he also expresses an irony towards the revolutionary people in those countries.
He has come a long way from his two earliest and very critiqued works but still pictures "The Savage and The Civilized Person"-kind of relation when Tintin meets an Indian tribe.I still regard this book as a very good one, especially the new swedish translation from 2004.
In earlier editions the translator had done a more "free-style" work.
This is not one of the better Tintin books. The illustration makes it very apparent that this is one of the earlier books. I find the story line to be rather choppy. This book was also penned before the introduction of Captain Haddock or Professor Calculus; even the Thompson Twins do not have much depth to them. It is noteworthy that General Alcazar makes his first appearance in this adventure. This book should be read before Herge's final Tintin adventure, Tintin and the Picaros, which in some senses is a continuation of The Broken Ear.
4/5Manages to be both adventurous and silly. Less characters, but the plot is very character-driven and not at all boring. I do miss Captain, of course. Have some fun quotes: "And you'll never believe it...Just between the three of us...the passenger...isn't a man isn't a woman...but...an omelette!"
[re-read 1/9-2/9/2018] tintin has always been a part of my childhood.
i am probably one of the biggest tintin enthusiasts you will ever meet.
however, when going back and re-reading the comics (especially the earlier ones), it's easy to find a lot of flaws.i gave this three stars mostly for nostalgia's sake.
but is the broken ear /that/ good?
there are certainly much better tintin stories, especially later on as hergé improved his style and the times changed.
i think i'm going to go and watch the tv adaptation now.
(yes, the one with heavily canadian accented english voice acting.)
قصص جميلة ومثيرة مثلما اِشتُهِر عنها..التقييم على التشويق والمغامرة في القصة،تنتمي مغامراتها للعالم الواقعي أحيانًا وأحيانًا أخرى يكون ممزوج بعالم الفانتازيا اللذيذولا شك بأن هناك اسقاطات منها على الواقع-----------------شهرتها حولت شخصية تان تان لثقافة عالمية..يشترك فيها أي حد قرأ منها وتعرف على شخصياتها وأحداثها..
ماجراهای تنتن و میلو دربارهٔ اتفاقاتی است که برای یک خبرنگار کنجکاو و زیرک و سگش میلو میافتد. وی در این ماجراها ضمن حل معماهای پیچیده، دوستانی نیز پیدا میکند که در قسمتهای مختلف به داد تنتن میرسند. دوست همیشه همراه تنتن در این ماجرا ناخدا هادوک است که پس از آشنایی با تنتن در تمام ماجراها همراه تنتن بودهاست.
ماجراهای تن‌تن و میلو دربارهٔ اتفاقاتی است که برای یک خبرنگار کنجکاو و زیرک و سگش میلو می‌افتد. وی در این ماجراها ضمن حل معماهای پیچیده، دوستانی نیز پیدا می‌کند که در قسمت‌های مختلف به داد تن‌تن می‌رسند. دوست همیشه همراه تن‌تن در این ماجرا ناخدا هادوک است که پس از آشنایی با تن‌تن در تمام ماجراها همراه تن‌تن بوده‌است.
#27 for 2018Genre: Children Comic
An interesting read, but without the captain it was a little dry and bland.
When Tintin hears that an artifact from South American was stolen from the museum Tintin is intrigued to find it. But very soon the artifact was returned it and Tintin is sure that it isn't the original and follows a lead to the South America. Tintin gets in trouble as usual but in the end he find the original artifact and the story behind it.
My first Tintin ... I think we all remember out first Tintin.
As with Tintin in America and The Blue Lotus, Herge sought to incorporate thinly-veiled political tensions.
As such, San Theodoros is at war partly due to the machinations of big oil companies from superpower nations.The story remains picaresque, leading Tintin through several smaller episodes which are tied together by an overarching plot, but is much more controlled and tightly plotted than anything Herge had done previously.
A lot of the native culture, and Herge's grim satire on big oil and Western countries exploiting second-world combats for their gain, is quite mature.
Title: The Broken EarAuthor: HergeGenre: Mystery/AdventurePages: 64 (Part of Tin Tin volume 2 :191 pages)Date started: January 25thDate ended: January 28th Who knew that one clay statue could cause so much chaos. An ancient Arumbaya tribe clay sculpture has just been stolen from a museum in France. And it is investigative reporter Tin Tin’s job to recover it. But it is not as easy as it sounds. Two Mexican men are looking for it as well. There’s one suspect that everyone thinks has stolen the st
Title: The Broken EarAuthor: HergeGenre: Mystery/AdventurePages: 64 (Part of Tin Tin volume 2 :191 pages)Date started: January 25thDate ended: January 28th		Who knew that one clay statue could cause so much chaos.
There’s one suspect that everyone thinks has stolen the statue.
But when that suspect is found dead, Tin Tin realizes that something is wrong.
He knows that the two men had killed the suspect and had searched him thoroughly, but why?
What is so great about the statue?
The great part about this is the pictures.
The Broken Ear is a great novel.
The Broken Ear is a great novel.
I have a vivid memory of this being the first Tintin I ever watched (in the cartoon series made in the early 90s), long before I was able to get my hands on a copy of it.
Although, I must admit, that the story goes into a long strange tangent around the middle of the book, which derails the main plot.
Nevertheless, even the tangent has moments where you witness Herge's ability to incorporate political satire in the narrative, and the story really picks up in the second half, making this a decent read.
Herge takes Tintin on an adventure on a mythical country in South America. The book is an interesting study of anthropology and is partly based on an actual event: the war between Bolivia and Paraguay in the 1930s due to the provocations of two petroleum giants in those times.
Here's where Tintin starts to get really good.
Loved it. Humour, political satire, detailed realism, more refined. Herge at the cusp of his mastery. Onwards to more Tintin!
