https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/85679.Mother_Courage_and_Her_Children
Mother Courage, with cart in tow is a wheeler and a dealer, travelling across Europe during the 'Thirty Years War'(1618 – 1648) she has found a way to use the conflict for her own gains, ferociously protective of her children is she, but apart from family values, doesn't have morals for much else, and is all too happy to exploit the various regiments of battle.
Mutter Courage und ihre Kinder, Bertolt Brecht تاریخ نخستین خوانش: بیست و هفتم ماه فوریه سال 1976 میلادیعنوان: ننه دلاور و فرزندان او (گزارش جنگهای سیساله) - نمایشنامه در دوازده صحنه؛ نویسنده: برتولت برشت؛ مترجم: مصطفی رحیمی؛ تهران، ایرانمهر، 1352؛ در 216 ص، مصور؛ چاپ دیگر: تهران، کتاب زمان، چاپ هفتم 1356؛ در 202 ص؛ چاپ دیگر: تهران، نیلوفر، چاپ هشتم 1388؛ در 192 ص؛ شابک: 9789644484230؛ چاپ نهم 1392؛ موضوع: نمایشنامه های نویسندگان آلمانی - قرن 20 ما. شربیانی
Mutter Courage und ihre Kinder, Bertolt Brecht تاریخ نخستین خوانش: بیست و هفتم ماه فوریه سال 1976 میلادیعنوان: ننه دلاور و فرزندان او (گزارش جنگ‌های سی‌ساله‌) - نمایشنامه در دوازده صحنه؛ نویسنده: برتولت برشت؛ مترجم: مصطفی رحیمی؛ تهران، ایرانمهر، 1352؛ در 216 ص، مصور؛ چاپ دیگر: تهران، کتاب زمان، چاپ هفتم 1356؛ در 202 ص؛ چاپ دیگر: تهران، نیلوفر، چاپ هشتم 1388؛ در 192 ص؛ شابک: 9789644484230؛ چاپ نهم 1392؛ موضوع: نمایشنامه های نویسندگان آلمانی - قرن 20 ما. شربیانی
In the middle of the thirty years war (1618-1648) she travels confidently with her wagon full of goods to sell, family and hangers-on.
She can sell intoxicating beverages (view spoiler)[ and anything else (hide spoiler)]to both the Imperial and Protestant soldiers.
She is certain that she can always make money and profit from everybody's misery.However her belief in the triumph of market forces blinds her to the fact that her situation, family and hangers-on are the product of the war.
As I am writing this review, I am reading the Good Reads description above which is a stunning masterpiece of misstatement: "Widely considered one of the great dramatic creations of the modern stage, "Mother Courage and Her Children" is Bertolt Brecht's most passionate and profound statement against war."Now for the truth.
His Mother Courage belongs to the hated category of camp follower; that is to say she was an itinerant peddler who followed armies on their campaigns.
Written during the times when Nazism and fascism was becoming prominent in Europe, Brecht uses an older European war as a setting to voice his point of view on the growing political crisis during '30s.
On one hand Mother Courage is a war profiteer which isn't all that new.
Through the course of play, Mother Courage shares her perception on war, morals, virtue, loyalty etc which is almost Brecht talking to people under Nazi regimen.
It is hard to ascertain whether Brecht is implying war with a radical propaganda requires what Mother Courage here is talking about or war in general is pointless.
برتولت برشت در جایی گفته است که در نمایشنامه ننه دلاور و فرزندان او جنگ، همان تجارت است که به روش های دیگری به حیات خود ادامه می دهد.
به این ترتیب، در نمایشنامه در دیالوگ های زیادی (آشکارترین ها مربوط به صحنه سوم است) به این مساله اشاره می شود که جنگ برای رهبران اصلی اروپا یک سرمایه گذاری پرسود بوده است.
ننه دلاور این نمایشنامه هم یک تاجر کوچک که با گاری که در اختیار دارد جنگ را به طور موقت از سر می گذراند.
برای مثال خود ننه دلاور اغلب یک بزدل است.
با کمک فاصله گذاری، فضایی در اختیار مخاطب قرار می گیرد که به تفکر درباره اتفاقات روی صحنه بپردازد.
بسیار دوستش داشتم. سرگشتگی انسان امروز رو به زیبایی به تصویر کشیده. موخره مترجم هم تامل برانگیز و بجا بود. داستان ننه دلاور مادری که در زمان جنگهای سی ساله اروپا که سعی داره فرزندانش رو از جنگ سالم بیرون بیاره در حالی که خودش عضوی از همراهی کننده های جنگه. بخش هایی از کتاب هم که به صورت شعر بوده، به فارسی هم منظوم ترجمه شده که جالب بود
No. Just no.
Brilliant.
و هرچه از جنگ بنویسند باز هم کم است و باز هم دل را به درد می آورد .. اجرای تئاتر این نمایشنامه را هم به کارگردانی امیر دژاکام دیدم و اشک ریختم برای تنهایی ننه دلاور .. برای بی کسیِ کاترین .. برای تمام قربانیان جنگ
اما وقتی شخصیت های نمایش، آن قدر با جنگ خو گرفته اند که به راحتی با آن کنار آمده و به سادگی از مصائب آن سخن می گویند، این جاست که طنز شکل می گیرد.
شخصیتی لال که تا پایان نمایش، هیچ دیالوگی ندارد اما موثرترین شخصیت است به نظر من و پایان بندی زیبای داستان را خلق می کند.نکته ی مهم در این کتاب، ترجمه ی اشعار آن به نظم فارسی است.
این کار، بر خلاف بسیاری از ترجمه های منظوم فارسی، کار خوبی شده است و انسان را به خوبی با خود همراه می کند.
(view spoiler)[Bettie's Books (hide spoiler)]
Ο Μπρεχτ μας δείχνει με αρκετή σκληρότητα τις τραγικές συνέπειες του πολέμου αλλά κ ξεσκεπάζει με φανερή περιφρόνηση τη χαζομάρα κ κερδοσκοπεία των ανθρώπων που τον επιδιώκουν.Η μάνα Κουράγιο δεν είναι, κατά τη γνώμη μου, η κακή αντιηρωίδα που αφήνεται να εννοηθεί στη σύνοψη του έργου.
Αγαπά τα παιδιά της και προσπαθεί να τα σώσει από τα νύχια του πολέμου, είναι όμως υπόδουλη του πάθους της για τα χρήματα κ το κέρδος ή ίσως κ μόνο για τη διαδικασία της διαχείρισης του αραμπά της.
Χάνει όλα τα παιδιά της σε στιγμές που είναι απασχολημένη με το εμπόριό της, χωρίς όμως να σημαίνει ότι δεν πονάει γι αυτά.
نمايشنامه اي از برشت در مورد انسان.در اين نمايشنامه برشت باز(همانند زندگي گاليله) اين مفهوم را تم اص
From BBC Radio 4 Extra:Mother Courage follows warring armies with her travelling canteen - selling provisions - but at what cost?
Sheila Hancock stars as Anna Fierling, nicknamed "Mother Courage".One of the great plays of the 20th century, written just before the outbreak of the Second World War in 1939, it was penned as a warning to those who sought to profit from war.
As Bertolt Brecht was to do often, he took one era to stand for another, setting Mother Courage during the Thirty Year War.The music used in the production is the original score written for the first performances by Paul Dessau.Directed by Jeremy Mortimer.First broadcast on BBC Radio 3 in 1990.
I read a lot of books this year with the same message: war is absurd, war destroys everything and afterwards, no one knows exactly what they were fighting for.
I don't even know why I read so many books on the subject, I usually really don't like WWII or generally war literature, it just makes me deeply uncomfortable and depressive.
I've been avoiding Anne Frank for the last 5 years for example, although it is patiently sitting on my shelf.However, once again, Brecht is different, different than anything I ever read on the subject.
A book I had to read for school, but by the time I realized it was due on Monday, it was Sunday evening and I couldn't find the book anywhere so I found it in on the Internet in English. Interesting experience.The book itself was also engaging because of its simple yet interesting writing. I especially liked the inserted songs, so different from the typical choir in the famed antique works.
A play of devastating power and unbearable structural symmetry, as Mother Courage, a small time war profiteer fails to learn anything from a sequence of tragedies and continues onwards hoping to find business opportunities, whereas in fact it's only the rich who can make a profit from such misery. Morality and politics and truth are all identical in this magnificent work.
گرانسنگ...
Read this because it was quick, but I didn't like this one. I thought the characters names were interesting. I'm noticing I don't care for war-related plays.
Teatrul Mic. În timpul războiului o mamă își pierde toți cei 3 copii în timp ce ea caută chilipiruri. Le caută cu gândul de a le asigura o viață bună, dar ce folos.
Jag har varit ett fan av Brecht sen jag såg Tolvskillingsoperan på Uppsalas stadsteater med mor min för kanske fem år sen.
När min teatergrupp satte upp Kallocain förnedrade vi den allvarlige kemisten Leo Kall och hans fru genom att låta dem sova i en våningssäng, för att vi hoppades höjden skulle ge lite insyn.
Mor Courage var inte fullt så burlesk som Tolvskillingsoperan, men dess blekhet har antagligen att göra med att jag bara läst den.
Jag hade behövt höra trummorna som markerar att Schweizerkas dödsdom fällts, och även om stumma Kattrins läten skulle vara lika obegripliga i talad form saknar jag dem.
Soon after I finished reading this for class, I saw a documentary on a production of Mother Courage in Central Park using a translation done by Tony Kushner.
Apparently Kushner read Mother Courage in college and loved it.
Perhaps because it is so repetitive in its theme of Mother Courage's relentless business sense over family.
Strange, because I normally love plots centering on a family.
I guess the play is only ostensibly about a family- it's really just about Mother Courage herself.
After all, they ain't wolves, just humans out for money.
Corruption in humans is same as compassion in God. Corruption's our only hope.
I don't even know if it could be turned into a perfect performance in my eye, especially because of the variedness of interpretations.I loved how it dealt with the effect of war on people, like having to make heartbreaking decisions to survive and being surprised that what was acceptable or even heroic to do in times of war is actually considered a sin in times of peace.And I loved the many faces of Mother Courage.
How she was a loving mother (I mean, in her own way, of course), a person not learning from her won faults, a vendor addicted to bargaining and a person making weird-sounding/looking decisions.
Prvi susret sa epskom dramom, ispod očekivanja, ali ipak solidno.Ovu dramu, kao i većinu ostalih, Breht je pisao u inostranstvu (Danskoj, Švedskoj, Americi), jer u nacističkoj Nemačkoj za vreme vladavine Hitlera nije bio siguran.
Drama je smeštena u Tridesetogodišnji rat, ali motivi koji se provlače kroz istu predstavljaju motive klasične za svaki rat- prevare, izdaje, prognanstva, besmisao rata, gubitak bližnjih, izopačenost itd.Majka Hrabrost (glavni lik) zarađuje preprodavajući robu, te joj je rat od koristi.
Zbog toga joj je rat draži od mira, iako joj proždire decu.
I read this 40 years ago or more.
Written by Brecht in exile just before the Second World War, and given its first performance in Germany in the late 1940s, his attempt to tackle questions such as 'mitmachen'/collaboration and 'war as business' entertain his audience/reader as well as stimulating them to profound reflection.
I think his intention is not to provide 'realistic' lovable appealing characters.
He uses drama as a means to think and to provoke thought and Mutter Courage does this in buckets for me.I will be rereading this and hoping to see it performed.I have seen it staged previously, but not recently.
Meh.
Depressing! During college I had to design the costumes for this play and all the colors I chose were drab blues and grays. I think that adequately sums up the tone of this Brecht piece.
I legitimately don't know how to feel about this book. So I'm giving it 2.5 stars because I just don't know.
In the beginning of the book, mother courage pulls up to a sergeant and recruiting officer who are trying to recruit soldiers into the swedish army because they are campaigning in Poland.
later that night, mother courage comes into the kitchen where her daughter is rinsing dishes excitedly saying that she can buy her sons freedom back...for the sense of time i will skip to the end of the book, know that there is a lot of content in the middle of the story that i have skipped, so do not take this review as a plot overview, sense so much has been left out, also for spoiler purposes.
