https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/11638700-the-ghost-train
Mystery of a ghost train with a couple of passengers stranded on a dark stormy night, in a haunted railway station. Comedy of errors ensues.2.5 ⭐
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jj0u0...Description: Mystery/Thriller Arnold Ridley Characters: 7 male, 4 femaleInterior Set A long running success in London and on Broadway and packed with thrills, chills and laughter.
In Maine near the Canadian border there's a legend of a phantom locomotive sweeping through a peaceful village leaving death in its wake.
Rum and narcotic runners use this and the villagers' superstition to their advantage but a not as incompetent as he seems detective clears up the mystery of the specter and attendant deaths.
His seemingly silly actions result in the apprehension of the evildoers and the little village and its station are finally at peace.
Bettie's Books
I really enjoyed this short mystery story played by(BBC)Radio 4 Extra. The quality of this audio version was excellent. The story was full of comical characters and well developed plot. The end was really surprising and greatly plotted. Highly recommended work!
What fun!
کتاب صوتی : http://audiobook.iranseda.ir/FullAudi...در سال 1376 این نمایش در قالب تله تئاتر از شبکه چهارم صدا و سیما پخش شدتله تئاتر : http://nostalgiktv.org/%D8%AA%D9%84%D...
یادمه اولین بار این نمایش رو از شبکه دو سیما در سال ۷۶ یا ۷۷ دیدم؛ مجموعه تله تئاترهایی که براساس نمایشنامه های مطرح ساخته شده بودند، همچون تله موش، تاجر ونیزی ، دشمن مردم و همین قطار ارواحیادآوری صحنه هایی مربوط به ۲۰ سال پیش همگام با خوندن کتاب لذت دو چندانی داشتدر مورد خود نمایشنامه هم یک اثر پلیسی شسته رفته که ساعاتی شمارو به خودش مشغول میکنه همین!!!
Good old fashioned creepy ghost story combined with smuggling, and trains that shouldn't be there in the middle of the night, and much more. Very entertaining.
An entertaining play, pleasantly frightening and well resolved.
dated but enjoyable
قرأتها بترجمة الكاتب العظيم أحمد جوده السحار ـ مين ده؟! ـ و من نسخة تبدو و كأنها خرجت من أمعاء كلب، و لكن على أي حال المسرحية جيدة جداً.
A good story for teens...
3.5 - Fun. Playful.
