https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/256008.Lonesome_Dove
There are a lot of books I would never have read if it wasn't for my Goodreads friends, but the two most memorable and that have made it to my favorites list are: The Conte Of Monte Cristo and Lonesome Dove I loved so many characters in this book and I feel like I have been on that journey with them.
Because people die and when you love characters you don't want that but that is life for real, life in books and life in movies and tv.
I'm going to have to watch some shows, read more books and come back to talk about these people I grew to love.
When I was thirty pages into it and complaining to him about being unable to handle any more discussion about horses and beans, he made me a bet: If I got to page 101 (out of 900, mind you) and I still didn't enjoy it, he'd take me out to dinner at any restaurant I wanted in New York City.
I don't think I made it past the 60th page before I knew I had "lost" the bet.The characters in this story are more real than in any other book I've read.
It's something to try to constantly keep in mind for sure, but not something to keep you from reading this fantastic book.
A story of Texas Rangers and winning the western frontier, which later encouraged McMurtry to create a tetralogy, Lonesome Dove is considered the foremost work of American western fiction.
Creating a large cast of characters and multiple storylines that eventually meet up, McMurtry creates a western novel that is more than the story of cowboys and Indians.
All three are limited in choices between marriage and whoring, and in the end Clara desires a brighter future for both Lorena and her two daughters.While I enjoyed the multiple story lines, the place of women, the character studies, and history, the journey from Texas to Montana is what kept me reading this volume.
The account of a cattle drive from Texas to Montana. This is a very long novel which is nevertheless always compelling. It contains memorable characters whose adventures are narrated in a deceptively straightforward style.What impresses me most about this book is that the fates of the characters are neither cornily predictable nor deliberately surprising. The book's great length allows life to happen to them as it happens to all of us. We have the leisure to observe them carefully, and we are glad that we have come along for the "drive."
I can’t read this without hearing the voices of Robert Duvall, Tommy Lee Jones, Anjelica Huston, Chris Cooper, Danny Glover, Diane Lane and all the rest in my head.* So every couple of years, I do a rereading of the book and then I break out the DVD of the miniseries and I immerse myself in the perfection that is this story.
It’s a good thing I never got into any bar wagers about this, or I would have bet my house that Robert Duvall won best actor for a mini-series , and when I lost that, I would have bet my car that it had to be Tommy Lee Jones.
Everything in Lonesome Dove is there for a reason and helps to make this one of the best Westerns ever.The Story – The American West was not clean.
I think it did a great job of touching on sensitive topics (women’s role in the old West, Native American treatment, etc.) and keeping it real without making the reader uncomfortable.
Those things did happen, so when telling stories about them, it is easy to do it wrong and make a book uncomfortable to read.
Needless to say, a very satisfying character study.The Atmosphere – You want to feel like you are in the Old West.
It looks worn, well thumbed, well read, pages and cover alike, beginning to curl up, and soiled by use.
I long to go back…….When Augustus came out on the porch the blue pigs were eating a rattlesnake – not a very big one.
Not so for me, I gotta say that I latched on to Augustus McCrae pretty early on and even though I can feel, quite acutely, Captain Call’s presence every time he crosses the page with Hell Bitch, it is Gus’s company I seek on this trail.
“If you read only one western novel in your life, read Lonesome Dove.” —USA TodayAbove statement seemed a bit too much to me before reading the book but not after reading it.My first time reading a Pulitzer winner and it is truly an epic story in every sense. A book that left me happy, sad, angry, and teary at times. Augustus McCrae and Woodrow Call are two retired rangers who run a cattle company in a small town called Lonesome Dove. Whereas Augustus is very talkative Call is the opposite, tal
Augustus McCrae and Woodrow Call are two retired rangers who run a cattle company in a small town called Lonesome Dove.
Call gets all anxious to be to first to claim it and soon he starts his journey from Texas to Montana with some 3000 cattle.I absolutely love the characters in the book.
It’s such a huge book and so many characters that at first I have a little trouble in remembering all in starting but soon I got addicted to them.
This review will be incomplete if I didn’t mention my favorite character from the book.
A two-time widower and a bachelor, respectively, the men lead Joshua Deets (a black scout from their rangering days), Peaeye Parker (an ex-ranger who is loyal but none too bright), Newt Dobbs (the seventeen year old progeny of a prostitute and in all likelihood, Call) and Bolivar (an ill-tempered cook who enjoys clanging the dinner bell with a crowbar).Having dedicated their prime to eliminating the threat of Comanche Indians or Mexican bandits to Texas, Gus and Call have spent nine years operating the Hat Creek Cattle Company, stabling horses, stealing fresh ones south of the border for sale and little else.
The characters are endearing; these are the premiere & authentic cowboys.
The book refuses to end though, and despite the authenticity of this far away world (it is the Lord of the Rings of Western classics), I could not help but feel that the different story lines, of the outlaws, whores and fellow pioneers went nowhere.
(Perhaps the bigness is part of the whole Lonesome Dove Experience.) Nevertheless the book was incredibly tight, the characters brilliant in their thoughts &, even better, their actions.
But sometimes I did want it to end...
I'll admit the cowboys sometimes more than overstayed their welcome.
Call and Augustus McCrae leave behind their sleepy lives in the Texas town of Lonesome Dove to drive a herd of cattle to Montana.
Though it took a couple decades, I finally made myself read the book the miniseries was based on and I've very glad I did.Lonesome Dove is an epic set in the dying days of the Old West.
While the book has an epic scope, the shifting viewpoints and colorful characters make it very accessible and a quick read for a book of its size.While I'd seen the miniseries a couple times, this book managed to wring a few man-tears out of me.
But even though I’ve done 609 book reviews in those ten years, I have never written a thing about Lonesome Dove.
Maybe the most difficult thing in discussing Lonesome Dove is conveying how a novel about a cattle drive – the subject of countless B-westerns – can mean so much.
When the novel opens, they are running a middling cattle company in the border town of Lonesome Dove, Texas.
The first belongs to Lorena, a prostitute in Lonesome Dove who accompanies the cattle drive to Montana.
Lonesome Dove is my favorite book of all time and, when asked, is what I consider to be the greatest American novel ever written.
It was so engrossing and the characters so compelling and the adventures so entertaining, that I wanted to read it in one sitting.
It's one of those reads that I envy others who have yet to read it.Gus and Call are two of the most memorable characters in American fiction.
So many other great characters that I don't have the time in the day to write about them.Please read and enjoy!
By far one of the best I’ve read, Lonesome Dove is a dense book in more ways than one, and runs a gamut of emotions that will leave you feeling giddy.
It’s hard not to love a story that revolves around the likes of Captains Woodrow Call and Augustus McCrae, polar opposites and saddle buddies.
Not to mention the fantastically endearing supporting cast.The Captain turned and handed him a holstered pistol and a gun belt.“Better to have it and not need it than to need it and not have it.”It’s a big book and I’m guessing many of us have had this lying around for ages, but you really should make the time to read it.
He finally published the complete novel in 1985 to great acclaim, which culminated in it being awarded the Pulitzer Prize for Fiction in 1986.The titulary Lonesome Dove is a small town at the very end of south Texas, near the Mexican border.
This image - of two domesticated animals swallowing a wild one - is an accurate representation of man's progress in the West: the western expansion of civilization, resulting in expulsion and extermination of natives to pave the way for the settlers - wilderness and nature literally being swallowed by civilization.Lonesome Dove is also a road novel - which I would consider a particularly American branch of fiction.
Among a handful of major characters, I often forgot many of them were constructs made of words.
Even minor characters came to life quickly and lingered long after exiting stage left, leaving behind solemn shadows.Death and humor are doled out abundantly and in roughly equal measures, striking a necessary balance.
A man…I mean, a fictional character not likely to leave my thoughts anytime soon.
As long as this story may be, it reads more like a novella, so quickly do the pages fly by.
And when the last page passes, it passes by without complete closure—highlighting the way we all experience life outside these books.
We read them.Half way through Lonesome Dove Augustus McCrae rides into the breaks of the Canadian River.
Augustus thought they were crazed remnants, mostly, like the old mountain man who worked night and day gathering bones to no purpose.That is the setting for Lonesome Dove, the brief “in between time” in the West.
A mystery is no longer a mystery.You will recall that in the beginning of Lonesome Dove, Augustus fashions a sign for the Hat Creek Cattle Company and Livery Emporium.
It was a refreshing experience to read a western, and I loved “Lonesome Dove” a lot!
It contains a vast set of lovable characters, it’s set in Texas and it follows a bunch of cowboys’ journey through the wilderness of America with a whole bunch of cattle and some dangerous encounters with blood-thirsty Indians - what’s not to love?
Only a few passages felt a little weak in my eyes, and I was expecting a bit more from the ending.
I think that’s because people have been telling me that this novel comes with a grand ending.
However, the overall reading experience was amazing and I loved being taken on this journey with Call, Gus and all the others.
When Augustus came out of the porch the blue pigs were eating a rattlesnake – not a very big one. It had probably just been crawling around looking for shade when it ran into pigs. They were having a fine tug-of-war with it, and its rattling days were over. The sow had it by the neck, and the shoat had the tail. I’ve had a first here in that I’ve done a complete U-turn on a book. I had serious doubts from page 1, especially when I read the above opening paragraph. Rattlesnakes, sows and young p
OK, so Gus has need of a “poke” from time to time but when I come across a new meaning for “carrots”, well as far as I was concerned, that was enough.I’m still completely unaware of what happened here but I went to bed, couldn’t sleep, took a cup of coffee, with my beloved honey of course, and began rereading this book.
The section with Sean and the water moccasins completely took me off guard and especially the ending with Gus. So unexpected.But I must add that I’m always intrigued by the titles of books and I kept on wondering why Mr McMurty had decided on this particular one.And the reason?
Quite simply a stunning achievement, the most compelling novel I’ve read all year.
Both are brilliant character studies of archetypal men – Cal, infuriatingly silent, emotionally shy, almost retarded in his refusal to allow feeling, McCrae, prone to excess drinking, lazy and vain about his scant erudition.
Essentially about a cattle drive Lonesome Dove has all the profundity of an ancient myth like The Odyssey or even the Divine Comedy because at heart it’s a story about venturing into the unknown with only your wits to offer protection against the perils.
Cowboys telling fart jokes and falling in love with sullen whores are EXACTLY what I want to read about right now.Warning: This book will destroy you.
I don't need a book club; I need a support group.
On a side note: Maybe these are fightin' words, and I only ever read Blood Meridian, but I'll take McMurtry over McCarthy any day of the week.
No Faulknerian pretensions, no torture-porn, no dogged insistence upon rendering the West as a nightmare-landscape of irredeemable violence and sorrow.
McMurtry paints the West in more colors than red, creating a world as tawdry, savage, absurd, and beautiful as the Texas of my own memory.
All the Stars “If you only read one western novel in your life, read Lonesome Dove.” – USA Today It’s right there in bold print, on the back cover. And while I’m fairly new to the genre, I would wholeheartedly agree. This is a quintessential American tale. Really what’s more American, than striking out into parts unknown to make a fresh go of it? This country was founded by explorers, thrill-seekers, risk-takers; it’s in our DNA, our blood & bones. And what better place to tackle, than that
So you’ll have to pardon his lazy attitude, and loud mouth, cause he’s paid his debt, and there’s a hell of lot more to life than work.
I’m sure you’re probably better suited to the role of Janey (slinging rocks, and chasing down varmints), but sadly her screen time was rather limited.
I sure wish Ma was still alive, or I at least knew who my old Pa was, but it’s a safe bet 1.0 won’t be claiming me any time soon.
Why is it that I always struggle to write a "review" for the books I love the most?I fell in love with Lonesome Dove.
While telling a simple story and being surprisingly easy and fast to read, it is also profound and emotionally exhausting.Lonesome Dove is all that and so much more.
It is honestly one of the greatest books I've read in my life.
But let me just tell you, if you look in the dictionary for a definition of the word "Adventure" I believe Lonesome Dove is written there.
I didn't expect to fall in love with Gus, but dammit if I did anyway.
McMurtry dragged me through every mud hole, snake pit, camp fire and stampede his characters endured.
Who knew I could love the West so damn much?Next to The Three Musketeers, this is the best man-love story around.
Gus and Call are totally OTP 4evah.I won't spoiler the story for anyone here...
but there's a place in the book where I got so upset that I literally threw the book across the room I was so upset.
I hate Larry McMurtry for that.
Wallace Stegner ain't got nothin on the McLarryMan.
I've been watching book reviews on YouTube and tweeting about this whole Donald Trump #passingwatergate and #goldenshowers and simply ignoring this boring-as-fuck 945 page novel.
Now, while some of you will agree with that statement based solely on the fact that I'm giving up on this book that over a dozen friends told me to read RIGHT FUCKING NOW, GODDAMNIT!
Continuing to read a massive fucking book I dread reopening and continuing DOES make me a fucking moron.
I know you loved this novel, in fact, you're the one who spurred me to read it.
Now this is a book. It's so good it hurts. The snake part!?! Holy crap! I'm not aware of having experienced a more vivid moment in a book ever. Everyone should read this book. EVERYONE! I don't give a goddamn that it's 900some pages and you already saw the miniseries with Ricky Shroeder. You still have to read it. If you love to read and you haven't read this book then you're cheating the fuck out of yourself. GET ON IT!
Looking for the Great American Novel? It's right here. Read this book before you die. It's as simple as that.
It was long, and I traveled far in this book, but now that I'm done with it, I kinda just have the urge to cry because I'm not sure I wanted it to be over.
Gus and Call are two of the best characters I've read about in a long time, and their interactions were both awkward and familiar.
But somewhere along the way, maybe around the time that they hit Nebraska, I started to understand Call.
I loved the descriptions of the country and the towns, and reading this felt less like looking at a page than living on the plains with these men.
Oops, forgot what I was talking about.) For example: [selected randomly] one of the first pages says stuff like this: "The man never wasted five minutes appreciating himself; it would have meant losing five minutes off whatever job he had decided he wanted to get done that day." That's getting to know you stuff.
Reading reviews of Lonesome Dove is me nodding vigorously "Yeah, I get that!" like the coolest book club I've never been a member of (I'm not into book clubs 'cause I'm too moody to read at set times).
It’s nearly 1000 pages long!”“So let me get this straight, you’re reading a book about a cattle drive that is longer than the phonebook?”“Yeah, that about sums it up.”“Is that why you’ve got tears in your eyes?
But these things always run their course and stop when you don’t want them to.”“So you’re a big Western fan then?”“Not in the slightest, I have only seen a handful of Western films and only read a smattering of Western books (even giving up on one which is highly unlike me!).”“So why the hell did you pick up something that big in a genre you have no interest in?!”“Other than some stonking reviews I read, I’m not too sure.
