https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/17493.Five_Get_into_a_Fix
Dick famously says to Georgina "it's really time you gave up thinking you're as good as a boy" and that does seem to sum up the ethos of the books.Our intrepid children are at Julian's parents' house over Christmas and develop nasty coughs ...
It's never named.Here are some things to bear in mind about the "strange metal".i) It is worth 100 times its weight in gold.
Having some far below a hill means that cars and bicycles are pulled towards the ground with such force that they become hard to drive/cycle.iii) It causes mysterious fogs and lights.Now, perhaps it's just me, but I think that people would have a keen interest in a metal that's worth millions of dollars per handful.
This one was pretty great. Intrigue, high stakes, sinister plots, spooky old houses, secret underground passages, dog attacks, dog rescues, mysterious noises and lights at night, bizarre unexplained magnetism, tobogganing... you name it.The only problem with it really is... Well, you know that episode of The Big Bang Theory where they realise Indiana Jones doesn't really affect the plot of Raiders of the Lost Ark at all? This book is a bit like that. If you removed the Famous Five from this story, it would all still have happened anyway; they're basically just observers.Still, I had fun.
Lo leí en mi niñez, no sé qué pensaría ahora de esta colección si la volviera a leer.
All of the terms, characters and names were acceptable in the society and age Blyton wrote them!
Secondly, the reference to black characters by the five, yes, okay, this may be slightly different to us, and even slightly racist or offensive, HOWEVER, again, th kind of attitude was common place in society when these books were written, it is common sense and a historical fact that black people and people of different cultures/race were regarded as an oddity, people during this time did not and could not travel so were not used to these people and had little understanding, there whole values were entirely different to ours now so we cannot apply our own values and thoughts on something written years and years ago!
It's entirely stupid, and if you claim to love Enid Blyton, yet find these books offensive, you are ridiculous and should go out and educate yourself.
Not every intelligent man on the street you meet is a professional."Aily followed Julian about the room like a little dog."-yes, Aily is that poor soul, I mentioned above.Maybe this all was acceptable at that time or maybe I am just naive when it comes to reading these kind of books, but, I couldn't understand the story.
Or maybe make them read it when they are mature enough to understand the time difference and not get confused, like I was.
War nett die Fünf Freunde mal in einer anderen Umgebung und Jahreszeit zu erleben, deswegen gefiel mir der Fall auch obwohl er sehr unrealistisch ("spezielles Metall", ultra magnetisch und neblig) war. [14.09.2018]
seperti biasa, suka dengan cerita petualangan Lima Sekawan. apalagi klo ngomongin semua makanannya itu lho. selalu bikin laper pas baca XDsampe menjelang akhir buku, gak tau sebenarnya ada apa sih di bawah tanah itu. walaupun udah ketebak ya dari judulnya "Logam Ajaib". tapi sayangnya, gak dijelasin si logam ajaib ini. kelebihannya apa, sampe disebut logam ajaib.
re-read, reminiscing childhood hohoho~kalau dulu baca ini sekitar usia SD-SMP bikin diri ini jadi pemberani-soktau-alaala gitu wqwq tapi tetep berkesan, karena sisi petualangan lima sekawan bikin yg baca jadi berani dan pengen bertualang juga
I have given this three stars as an average from the 5 stars the eight year old me would have given and the one the adult me would feel it necessary to give due to the nonpc undertones, and sometimes overtones, However the eight year old me loved this book!
I wanted to be part of the adventures, usually as George, and in this volume I wanted to go skiing with them.
I know I hankered after boarding school in the same way that young readers of Harry Potter did!
The power of authors!
Queridos amiguinhos.Aqui têm a décima-sétima aventura dos Cinco. Espero que gostarão dela - desta vez é que eles estão em apuros.Boa sorte lhes desejaEnid BlytonContracapa
This was definitely one of the better five books, although I love them all.
Timmy for once cuases a bit of trouble and distress when he is bailed up by a few of the seven farm dogs, and it is decided the children will all go and stay in a holiday hut half way up a mountain to be away from the dogs.
they can still have all the snow games they want, just they get to look after themselves as they like.Introducing Aily and her animal friends, Dave and Fany the lamb.
Aily leads the Five to save an old woman apparently being held prisoner, and the fire experience weird shimmerings and noises at night.

These books (Famous five) are hands down one of my favorite books from my childhood. All those adventures and mystery …and those sandwiches they always packed! aww, just the best! I would love to read one of these again. To bring back those memories..memories of first experiences with reading books.
Very boring. Nothing else I wanna say. Only 2 stars** for this.
I just love Famous Five, huge childhood favourite!!
I read these books when I was ten years old or so. They tell me that Enid Blyton was racist. I didn't get the feeling when I read the books.. Perhaps I was too young to see it.
"The novel begins with the four and their dog Timmy, having the worst Christmas holidays ever with coughs and colds at Julian’s house.
To recover Julian’s mother sends them to a farmhouse in the Welsh mountains for the last week of their holiday.The Five had nearly reached their destination, when they get lost in the dark and drive up a dead-end driveway leading to a large and strange old building called Old Towers on the top of the lonely hill.
Seems funny now when some of the secondhand shops charge $7-10 per book!
When the Five go to stay in a Chalet near Old Towers they discover some breath-taking secrets involving the atmospheric building.Random thoughts:I liked the beginning, with the children crankily recovering from colds and coughing a lot.
However, isn't it weird that parents would send their children, just recovering from bad colds and still coughing, to spend their holidays in the snow?
We had lots of snow in Go Adventuring Again, but the children didn't get to enjoy it much.Aily is another of those wild, ragamuffin child characters Enid Blyton likes.
I loved this as a kid and it's still one of my faves - a snowy adventure with the Five, which is a nice change from endless Summer and sunshine. Don't worry though - they still manage to have lots of good food courtesy of a nice farmer's mother, a wooden cabin in the middle of nowhere, snowy frolics and underground caves. Oh, and a ragamuffin child and a trapped (mildly deranged) nice old lady. Timmy and his doggy 'friends' (kind of: one bites him) save the day. Hurrah!
This is a good instalment in the series. When the five all have colds over Christmas they are sent to the hills in Wales. While there they are there they discover the mystery of two towers, what are the strange noises coming from the house and who is the lady they see at the window. As the five begin to investigate they discover some very odd secrets!
In all fairness, I don't think it was one of Enid Blyton's better efforts. The story was a bit weak and the plot very thin. However, it was still enjoyable and good to be in the company of the Five and their adventures.
ชอบธีมของเรืองทีเปนหิมะในเดือนมกราคม แตแอบขัดใจทีเดกๆดูจะมันใจในตัวเองเกินไปจนพาตัวเองไปอยูในสถานการณอันตรายปล. พออานๆมาถึงเลม 17 กเกิดคำถามวา เดกๆอาบนำบางหรือเปลา มีตอนไหนทีเราอานขามไปมัย เพราะดูเหมือนแคลางหนากันอยางเดียวทังเรือง
ชอบธีมของเรื่องที่เป็นหิมะในเดือนมกราคม แต่แอบขัดใจที่เด็กๆดูจะมั่นใจในตัวเองเกินไปจนพาตัวเองไปอยู่ในสถานการณ์อันตรายปล. พออ่านๆมาถึงเล่ม 17 ก็เกิดคำถามว่า เด็กๆอาบน้ำบ้างหรือเปล่า มีตอนไหนที่เราอ่านข้ามไปมั้ย เพราะดูเหมือนแค่ล้างหน้ากันอย่างเดียวทั้งเรื่อง
Hard to imagine a man with such a voice as Morgan does. But I think it would take an honest man like that to get loyalty from dogs, and he does! :) Enjoyed the adventure, but kind of makes me wish for a skiing holiday in Wales.
My first ever book, lead me to read the famous five series
dari awal agak kurang engaged sih sama buku ini (tumben kan padahal Enid Blyton). kan mereka sedang sakit kenapa justru boleh bepergian sendirian (?)
It's just cool to be them!
An okay story sprinkled a little with hatred towards "foreigners" which is a very British thing.
Love these books-everyone is brilliant- a welcome break inbetween heavier stuff
Lovely book ❤ you can never go wrong with famous five👍😃
Lovely book ❤️ you can never go wrong with famous five👍😃
My favorite childhood read.
