https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/19161909-the-kill-off
I backed toward the door.
I thought, Oh, how I hate you!
I hate you so much that - that - !
I hate you so much that - that - !
I hate you, hate you, hate you!
-- It didn't occur to me until later that I must have said what I was thinking.
That I'd actually yelled it at him.
I've just found my new favourite Thompson noir.
Reading this story got better and better all the time.
The story is constructed and built up beautifully.
There is a continuous red line through it AND side stories to get you confused.
I backed toward the door.
I thought, Oh, how I hate you!
I hate you so much that - that - !
I hate you so much that - that - !
I hate you, hate you, hate you!
Reading this story got better and better all the time.
The story is constructed and built up beautifully.
There is a continuous red line through it AND side stories to get you confused.
Hey, I was pretty confused even at the very end but it only strenghtened my desire to read this story again.
I was reading the first couple pages, thinking, "this feels like his Pop. 1280," when I read, on the third or fourth page, "According to the last census, the population was 1,280." The two novels are not connected, and The Kill-Off is from 1957 but Pop.1280 is from 1964. Maybe if I read the very long Jim Thompson biography I'll understand the significance of this. But, overall, I didn't think this experiment in multiple perspectives was that great.
What little mystery there is to Thompson's stories is limited to the sane and socially well-adjusted reader's wonderment over how people like those protagonists could behave so unspeakably.Which made The Kill-Off a very unexpected and pleasant surprise.
Thompson makes it clear, from the very first chapter, that Luane will ultimately be murdered, but he takes his own sweet time getting around to killing her off.
So in introducing each of the characters in such a detailed manner, and clearly signaling Luane's impending demise, the book isn't a "whodunit" so much as a "whowilldoit." The narrative is a very interesting twist on the conventions of crime fiction, one which shows why Thompson was one of the true giants of the art.
Another dark, disturbing tale from the Duke of American noir fiction.
Just be prepared for characters who are dark, nasty, disturbed, and just plain mean.
Centering his story around a housebound hypochondriac recluse who delights in spreading malicious gossip, Thompson introduces a world of small resort town characters who literally hate her.
There's the younger husband who was once rumored to be her son and for whom every job in town is drying up.
There's the juvenile delinquent son of the town doctor who rants on about killing people and getting young girls hooked on dope.Cynism just drips off every page as Thompson explores these intriguing characters.
The most convoluted, drifting, unidentifiable, plot absent book I've ever read. Quite possibly the product of a too frequent indulgence in illicit pharmaceuticals. Brutal
***.I keep bumping into books by Thompson that I haven’t read, so it’s time to get organized and make a clean sweep.
Her husband, Ralph, is about forty and takes care of everything around the house and survives on a series of part-time jobs from the townspeople.
Most of her gossip is of the malicious kind, and she has made a series of enemies around town.
The trick to this plot is that we know up front that Luane is going to be killed by one of the folks she is slandering, but we have to figure out which one will be the guilty culprit.
I'll admit it; as a whodunnit, this is a mediocre affair.
But as a snap shot of small-town life, and a glimpse at the interior lives of the apparently small-town/small-lives people who live there, this is Thompson at his best.
When you read one character's story, you actually hear that person's voice in your head.
Layers.
Thompson told amazingly layered, droll, violent, sexy stories despite (or perhaps because of) the constraints of 1950's and 1960's censorship.
I am so glad Jim Thompson's work is finally getting the readership it deserves.
It's written in the very old style as if you're reading someone's journal.
"What the fuck is this, goddamn Clue?" I said to myself.But I ended up getting hooked by Jim's ability to change into different characters with genuine authenticity.
Each chapter takes you into a different character's head, and so another piece of the mystery is revealed.
To be honest I hardly gave a shit about the plot.
It's about some old bitch who's worried some wants to kill her.
Good, fuck her, who gives a shit?
The real gold is the psychological voyeurism.This book is awesome for any writers interested in character design.
Jim Thompson is addictive. Start reading him at your own peril (and the peril of your reading list)!
The One. The man. «Noche salvaje » ya comenzaba en clave de género negro, pronto derivaba a lo kafkiano y terminaba a lo Carretera Perdida de Lynch. Aquí Thompson vuelve a escribir, con la excusa o la etiqueta del noir, lo que da la gana. 12 capítulos para 12 puntos de vista de 12 personajes, a cual más cafre y solitario. Si lo firmara Carrión y lo publicara Galaxia, los blogs y los suplementos se pasarían el año hablando de «El exterminio».
Thompson! again a fabulous book. a story with switching perspectives and voices as each character takes their turn telling the story. the story isn't a mystery about who did it- but who will as everyone seems to have a motive. Curiously enough one character the first you meet is 5 feet tall just like Carl Bigelow from "Savage Night" what is with Thompson and 5 foot men?it is a oft times funny and great absorbing title again. everyone read this and his other works you won't be disappointed.
Thompson puts the pulp-crime hatchet away and writes a "Peyton Place" style soap opera about a rich gossip who crushes her neighbors in the safety of her sick bed. Everybody harbors plans to snuff her, but who carries it out? Is it the slutty big band singer, the kept gigolo handyman husband, is it the junk-sick teenage girl or the half-caste Juvenile Delinquent? Very sordid goings on in this book. A decent time waster.
great--until the last 10pages
Through various points of view, Thompson shows that multiple people have reasons to kill the woman, a gossiper who has ruined many a reputation and life among those living in the town.
That love interest might kill her because she's not a very innocent gal and obviously wants to be able to marry her lover.
The son of another local might kill her in order to steal money from her to be able to run away with a gal he has an interest in.
As such, the book doesn't quite live up to its full potential.

Such a great book. Until the last chapter.It has a very unsatisfying end.Furthermore, I did not understand why he kills his daughter and her boyfriend. It's a mystery to me.
Scattered bits; the mulatto character was fascinating.
Tan solo padecía autoconmiseración y egoísmo, mala intención y miedo: la necesidad de meterse con la gente desde el santuario de su cama de inválida.”Luane está convencida de que su marido es el que quiere matarla; Thompson nos atrapa desde las primeras líneas del segundo capítulo con los primeros pensamientos de su marido Ralph Devore:“Empecé a pensar en matar a Luane el primer día de la temporada de verano, que también fue el día en que abrió la sala de baile, y el día en que conocí a Danny Lee, el vocalista en la orquesta de Rags McGuire.
Kokuşuk bir polisiye. Ama hikâyenin kasabadaki herkesin gözünden ayrı ayrı anlatılması hoştu.
Αυτό διόλου δεν με πείραξε, μου αρέσει πολύ η γραφή του Τόμσον και η ανάπτυξη των χαρακτήρων του, που και μια απλή ερωτική ιστορία να είχε γράψει πάλι ενδιαφέρον θα είχε.
Τοπίο δράσης είναι μια μικρή παραλιακή κωμόπολη που από άποψη προσέλκυσης τουριστών δεν τα πάει πολύ καλά τα τελευταία χρόνια.
Ο Τόμσον καταφέρνει να ψυχογραφήσει δώδεκα χαρακτήρες και μαθαίνουμε πολλά πράγματα για τον καθέναν από αυτούς και τα προβλήματα που αντιμετωπίζουν στην κωμόπολη όπου ζουν.
Πιστεύω ότι λίγοι συγγραφείς μπορούν να γράψουν ιστορίες σαν αυτές του Τόμσον, με αληθοφανείς χαρακτήρες, ωραίους, πειστικούς διαλόγους και γαμάτη ατμόσφαιρα.
Extraordinaria novela negra en la que se describe, en primera persona, un protagonista por capítulo, las circunstancias en las que se vive el futuro asesinato de una vecina de un pequeño pueblo.
Asesinato que se hace realidad en la última parte.
Todo ello en un ambiente opresivo, oscuro y cerrado.Todos tienen motivos para el asesinato, pero sólo uno se confiesa autor de él, aunque duda de que haya sido él el que haya rematado la faena.El desfile de personajes e historias está narrado de forma sublime, y sólo un precipitado y algo confuso final (por qué mata Pavlov a su hija y a su novio, y por qué Bobby se confiesa autor del crimen de Luane?) consigue cerrar un libro redondo.Muy recomendable.
Thompson is in experimental mode, giving us a rather post-modern novel that unwinds backwards and in which each chapter is told from the perspective of a different character, each of whom is a suspect in the murder.
His command of voice and usual themes and tones are present--though with far less overt violence than many of his books--but the novel is a bit of a mixed bag.
It doesn't really succeed as something well plotted, and it gives us a very unsatisfying ending that suggests that a character who barely appears in the book has done the crime.
In this novel, he switches narrators every twenty pages or so to tell the story of a tawdry murder in a seedy resort town.
The murder itself is interesting -- the victim is a gossipy, vindictive old bat with so many enemies the suspect list is impossible to narrow down -- and all the characters he are believably hateful, but the chronic shifting of perspective makes the narrative confusing and prevents the reader from building much empathy (never sympathy, of course, it would take a sick human being to feel any sympathy for a Thompson hero) for the characters.
One of Thompson's lesser-known novels, The Kill-Off takes an approach completely alien to the writer's usual output: each of its twelve chapters is written from the perspective of a different resident of its sleazy setting.
While a murder serves as the central focus of the narrative, The Kill-Off is more concerned with character studies than providing a compelling mystery.
It has its flaws, but the The Kill-Off stands as an ambitious pulp novel that shows where Thompson's work could have gone under different circumstances.

Sin duda en El exterminio os encontrareis un Thompson diferente, pero que conserva toda su esencia, no tengáis miedo, es una novela que está a la altura del resto de su universo, cínica, social, con personajes desangelados, con personajes más extremos, con esa facilidad de crearnos una opinión sobre sus personajes en ocasión equivocada, engañosa, falsa…https://viajealrededordeunamesa.wordp...
Small-town paranoia; the flames of hell transposed to the chills of a coastal New England town; a silent veneer of mutual guilt and complicity in immorality and desperation: the characters in The Kill-Off are the masterminds of their own downfall. Incest, drug abuse, family lies, betrayals, failed romances, spiteful marriages, lost opportunities: these are the only blessings to be found in Thompson's world, save for the ultimate gift they are all quietly waiting for: their own death.
Though probably not Mr. Thompson's most entertaining novel, it's one of his most intriguing I've read to date. He uses multi-viewpoints to sketch in the different characters at a decrepit New Jersey beach resort. Each character gets to speak in a chapter. There's a murder mystery in the banal small town. Mr. Thompson's conversational tone goes well with this sort of a tale. A movie has been made from the book.
12 motivazioni personali12 personaggi di provincia in cerca di motivazioni, o di alibi, o di riscatto, o di, be', fate voi. Tutti sapientemente tratteggiati nelle loro virtù di piccoli perdenti, chi più chi meno, a barcamenarsi tra slanci di follia e consolatorie illusioni, e un occhio rivolto all'omicidio.Solo uno di essi sarà colpevole... forse tutti, forse nessuno.
I found a huge stack of Jim Thompson's crime noir novels at my favorite used bookstore and I grabbed a handful. In Thompson's world women are dangerous, everyone has a secret agenda, and somebody is going to die. I equate these to literary crack, after you get into to one of Jim Thompson's books it is hard to stop until you are finished.
