https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/210783.Up_in_the_Old_Hotel
Luc Sante's wonderful Low Life: Lures and Snares of Old New York is in some ways a pendant piece to Up in the Old Hotel.
Here for instance is a quote that might be right out of Sante's Low Life:At that time, in 1894, the Bowery was just beginning to go to seed; it was declining as a theatrical street, but its saloons, dance halls, dime museums, gambling rooms, and brothels were still thriving.
Mitchell's summary of Gould's nine-million word treatise "An Oral History of Our Time" (unpublished) is fascinating and alone worth reading, yet the essay offers so much more.
So many favorite lines ..."Done by aproned, middle-aged people ponderous with beefsteak and beer, the waltz is an appalling spectacle." All You Can Hold for Five Bucks"He had a habit of remarking to bartenders that he didn't see any sense in mixing whiskey with water since the whiskey was already wet." Mr Flood's Party"The sturgeon rose twice, and cleared the water both times, and I plainly saw its bristly snout and its shiny little eyes and its white belly and its glistening, greenish-yellow, bony-plated, crocodilian back and sides, and it was a spooky sight."  The RivermenMitchell often said that Joyce's Finnegan's Wake was one of his favorite books, one he read over and over.
As stated below, some are fact some are fiction ,but all are based on the author's interviews with real people - fishermen, gypsies, colored folk, denizens of the Bowery.
What the author does is start with the facts and then he goes deeper and deeper by looking at people who everyday live with those details, those things just described.
5 stars – these are utterly amazing!I have for clarity indicated which are fictional and which are factual, also which stories were added by the author and thus not to be found in previous collections.
The stories/sketches in "McSorley's Wonderful Saloon" are factual OR fictional.
This is one of the books I had to ration because I never wanted it to end.
Of all the writers who have taken New York City as their subject, none is better than Joseph Mitchell.
I once referred to "the Joseph Mitchell tradition" to Fran Lebowitz in conversation and she shot back: "That's not a tradition, that's a talent." Amen to that.
One of a kind.
The book is a constant delight and a guide to good writing--I try to steal from it, and Mitchell, all the time.
What is it about me and the old guys these days? I can't seem to get enough of them. Mitchell, a prolific staff writer for  The New Yorker  magazine, chronicled daily life in hidden corners of New York City in the 1930s and 1940s, from McSorley's Saloon, a men's only bar in the Village, to Gypsy neighborhoods on the outskirts of town. When my brain is abuzz from too much screen time and ringing cell phones, I like nothing more than taking a step back into old time New York City with Joseph Mitchell.
In this collection of pieces that he wrote for the New Yorker, mostly in the 1940s and 50s, Mitchell takes us to an older and stranger New York.
The streets of New York City that he wrote about are long gone now.
Apparently he suffered from serious writer's block, and barely wrote a thing in the last few decades of his life, despite coming to his office at the New Yorker day after day.
read about half of this (it's over 700 pages), and will get back to it, but it's a library book and had to go back.
Fantastic articles about eccentrics and 'tribes' in New York, including tales of bar fights and grumpy landlords, gypsy kings, a couple who lived in a cave in Central Park.
All around 1930-50.Again the book came to life for me because I was in the streets mentioned, particularly Mott Street, Mulberry St. etc.
- visiting my daughter who lives nearby.
Either way, Gould insisted that scholars of the future would want to study it to find out what people really thought.
Therefore, anything was possible.Like Tom Wolfe's "New Journalism," Mitchell has a way of making you intensely interested in people and places in which you thought you had no interest (and he has an uncanny ability to record lengthy diatribes in the subject's own words).
Leave it to a transplanted southerner to create such an indelible portrait of a New York City which seems to be long gone.
At some point early in the new year, I began to read the book, first reinforcing the cover with clear packing tape.Fiona, you know me too well.
Its 700+ pages hold 37 of Mitchell's New Yorker essays, including a few short stories, ranging from 1940 to 1964.
(Interestingly, the two men provide the only two pieces I've ever read about shad.) But Mitchell gets the nod, because he's much more willing to get down and dirty, and at the end of the day, his topics are just more fun.And so for months, I carried the book with me wherever I went, bus stations and train stations, snowstorms and heat waves, and yes, even to Alaska and back.
This reads like the best fiction, with the powerful feeling that these places exist / existed and that these people lived and breathed and died.
It’s a box of ghosts or a vivid HD documentary about a small number of lives in precise streets and buildings and restaurants.
It’s given me a month’s worth of places and street corners and locations in that city that I could not but want to go and see.
Earlier this year I read and loved a book called Saint Mazie by Jamie Attenberg.
In the flyleaf the author said that the book was based on a Joseph Mitchell article published in the New Yorker.
So after some research I purchased Mitchell's book and there on page 23 was Mazie's story originally published in 1938.
I loved Mitchell's readable writing style; it's as though he's sharing a cup of coffee with you at the kitchen table recounting the eccentric yet lovable characters that inhabited the fringes of Manhattan and its environs: the gypsy fortune tellers, Olga the bearded lady, the gifted child, Philippa Duke Schuyler and the denizens of McSorley's Ale House to name a few.
If you enjoy anthologies and beautiful prose, this is the book for you.
I have no real context with the city or the milieu, and yet the pieces worked for me.
Like old wine, Mitchell's work keeps growing on me.
How far, I wonder, is Narayan's Selvi from Mitchell's Mazie (one fictional and other non-fictional); and though separated by a vast geographical gap, I see that their (and many other) lives must have meant a great deal to the writers, who in writing about these curious characters and their immediate reality struck something of a lasting value, something humane, something outside of time and culture.
From flophouses to high society, Joseph Mitchell introduces us to many interesting people and lets us experience the city from their points of view.
To be sure, my interest began to wane when reading about various fishing methods or descriptions of landscapes, but that's because I've always been more interested in people.
If the life and observations of a bearded lady, a street preacher or an eccentric who can speak seagull and is writing the world's longest book make you even a bit curious, I highly recommend "Up in the Old Hotel".
Collected works of arguably the greatest nonfiction writer ever. You will find out more about NYC history here than in any other book on the subject.
In fact Sloan inhabited & painted McSorley's Old Ale House on 7th Street near the Cooper Union Building (where Abraham Lincoln made a pivotal speech in 1860 several years after McSorley's opened its doors), the saloon that Joseph Mitchell profiles in "The Old House at Home", part of this anthology.
While Up in the Old Hotel begins with the tale of McSorley's Old Ale House, it concludes with "Joe Gould's Secret", the longest piece but one for which early on in the anthology, "Prof.
Most of these stories focus on the strange and larger than life characters who populated New York in the Depression and afterwards – eccentric barmen, street preachers, Bohemians, gypsies, fishermen, a bearded lady, a Calypso singer, and more.
He caps it all off with a book called “Joe Gould’s Secret,” a piece of the titular Bohemian who went to Harvard, became a panhandler in the Village, and spent all his life convincing other people that he was working on a monumental “Oral History of Our Time.”It’s in pieces like this last, where Mitchell’s getting to the heart of unusual characters, that his writing really shines.
Otherwise, Mitchell's book is fantastic.
These stories are all profiles he made of the common man and, specifically, Depression-era New York .
If you're even remotely a fan of history and the forgotten people of America this book is a must read.
Mitchell really digs into these misfit's lives and exposes a kind of lost America.
In particular the story Joe Gould's Secret, which is apparently Mitchell's crowing achievement, is fascinating.
Basically, he was just an eccentric drunk, but Mitchell's ability to flesh out such a unique character and turn him into a kind of hero is very impressive.
It is a series of short stories by Joseph Mitchell who worked at the New Yorker.
All of the stories are about real people who lived in NYC during the 30's and 40's.
You are treated the the world of Mc Sorley's Wonderful Saloon, a bar that came into existence in the late 1800's.
I enjoyed the story of Mazie.
This book is brilliant, evokes a world long, long gone..from the flophouses, oyster houses, free lunchtime food at the bars (cheese & raw onions)etc....A true compilation of America during that time period.
This book really is a classic.
Part of me feels, sayang, but the other part of me thinks, its okay because what he did produce before those dry years was astonishing.Mitchell gained a reputation on his ability to find and portray the eccentrics of New York and he does it in a way that combines a good reporters detached attention to detail, an astonishing ear and memory for dialogue and a bit of dry, sometimes black humor.
Mitchell's New York and the eccentrics that populated them might be long gone but, in his work, he captured and immortalized them.
I re-read this book every couple of years.
It's both a way to time travel to the New York of the earlier twentieth city and an immersion in that compelling yet somehow effortless prose that drives me to pick up the New Yorker every time I see it.
Mitchell somehow evokes the ground under the city, the water all around it, as well as the eccentric characters who wandered through it in the twentieth century.
Somehow, in telling these small and seemingly trivial stories, Mitchell illuminates why New York is at the center of American consciousness so much of the time.
This is a quirky collection of stories about New Yorkers: musical prodigies, gypsies, fishermen, preachers, gluttons, collectors, and eccentrics of all varieties.
It was amazing to me how Mr. Mitchell ( a reporter) could win the trust of such a diverse circle.
The last story, "Joe Gould's Secret," crackled with life.
Joseph Mitchell identified with the man Joe Gould, who has been dubbed a "Greenwich Village bohemian," almost to the point of making him his alter ego.
Truth can be stranger than fiction, and the award winning Mitchell is a reporter that manages to breathe life into his subjects and make them memorable.
Popisná stránka byla dokonalá (někdy jsem měla dojem, že se musím každou chvíli probudit do letního dne s atlasem květin pod paží a dívat se z dálky na vrcholky mrakodrapů v New Yorku), ale bohužel se nedostavilo to, co u povídek běžně hledám a oceňuji - zajímavý dějový spád a pointy (konce některých povídek mi připadaly hodně nevyužité). Možná to zkusím ještě v jiném rozpoložení..
True New York stories circa 1930 to 1950 or thereabouts. Truly amazing writing that brings the nooks and crannies of the city to life. The author tends to leave himself almost entirely out of these essays and lets the characters (and these are some SERIOUSLY INTERESTING characters) speak and act for themselves. Drunks. Geniuses. Bartenders. Fishermen. Religous zealots. Gypsies. Best of all, these essays are excellent sources of history, as they capture a time and place that is gone forever. Each one is a mini-masterpiece. Highly recommended.
I'm re-reading this now. Each essay reveals something new and surprising about early 20th century New York City. My favorites are the Old Mr. Flood essays, where you learn a lot about Fulton Fish Market and the characters that wander there. I never expected to be so engrossed in a essays about fishmongering (I'm vegan), but everything is so lively and quotable and delightful, it really doesn't matter how you feel about fish.
Book? Book? This ain't no book. The NEW YORKER magazine in long form? A personification of the New Yorker Hotel on Eighth and 23rd Street? A Dickens work without a plot? Really just a series of human disinterest stories taxing to the limit. 'Albeit' well written! But why is this on a high school book list? I read it, though. Whew. Done. Now the book report.......
It's hard to tell whether New York was once a bigger, more interesting, more varied place - neighborhoods of gypsies and Mohawks and rich bankers and Irish mobsters and black oystermen and Italian fishmongers and down-and-out bohemians and Bowery flophouse bums and writers and scoundrels and drunks and saints and preachers, the fabulously wealthy next to the well to do next to the rising, working poor next to the indigents and luckless, all within a couple stone throws away from each other in a cacophony of life, sometimes weird, often hard, always unexpected - or whether our time simply doesn't have its Joseph Mitchell.
Mitchell recounts Flood’s tale of “an old farmer [who] lived beside a little branch-line railroad in south Jersey, and every so often he’d get on that train and go over to Trenton and buy himself a crock of applejack.
The one half of this anthology that was NOT about seafood of any kind was great! A nice look back at old New York, bookended by two brilliant profiles.
This is a wonderful and readable collection of Mitchell's essays, in which he lovingly describes haunts like the Fulton Fish Market and McSorley's, one of the last bars in America to admit women, and profiles various folk and colorful denizens of New York City's nether regions, most famously, Joe Gould, the bohemian character with whom he is inevitably and eternally linked.
This works best with Joe Gould who was a fountain of words anyway.
It was this idea that beguiled Mitchell and his readers, made Gould into a minor celebrity, and ultimately formed a tragicomic link to Mitchell's own career.
I believe that Mitchell has a gift for finding and communicating the essence of the New York experience.
There was much fascinating reading also about elements of New York that I never knew existed, for example, the large ROM gypsy population and the vibrant fishing industry that exploited the waters of the East River, Hudson river and Staten Island Bay. It was fascinating to learn about the farming culture and large African-American community that existed on Staten Island where I lived during my late teens.
I think this is must reading for any native New Yorker as well as recent arrivals.
