https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/15171.A_Girl_Named_Zippy
Well, I have to say that I grew up one of the 300 people that lived in Mooreland.
I wasn't friends with the author (I'm 5 years younger), but I knew who she was.
My brother and the author were in the same class together, and he is actually pictured in the class photo from the book (S.
I also remember the old school that I went through until after first grade.
That said, I really had a good time reading this book, it brought back a lot of memories, not just of the authors life, but of what was going on in mine, a few blocks away.
I was really put off by the amount of animal abuse throughout the stories.
No animals were spared - pets, farm animals, wild animals, animal corpses - they all got abused in Zippy's world and it was all described in a rather nonchalant matter-of-fact manner.
Just when you think you're reading a story that you're safe from the horrors of an another animal meeting with cruelty at the hands of the nuts in Zippy's world, she manages to slip one in.
What do I know - I'm one of the few who thinks Michael Vick should be cleaning up animal feces in an animal shelter instead of being considered for NFL MVP.
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/ I should probably leave well enough alone and not post any sort of review regarding little Zippy, but I’m not gonna. I’ve been seeing this title pop up on various lists and whatnot for YEARS now and always managed to avoid it due to the eternal question I ask myself whenever I see a memoir written by a non-famous person: “WTF was so special about you that you think everyone else wants to read about it???” But then the dang thing came
I’ve been seeing this title pop up on various lists and whatnot for YEARS now and always managed to avoid it due to the eternal question I ask myself whenever I see a memoir written by a non-famous person: “WTF was so special about you that you think everyone else wants to read about it???” But then the dang thing came back again when I was perusing the Faceplace and saw my library’s weekly question post, which this time around was “what’s the last book you read that made you laugh out loud.” Some of the answers provided by rando strangers on the interwebs I agreed with, some made me want to find out where they live so I could go smack them around a bit for obviously being super unfunny people and probably a real drag to hang around with and then there was Zippy.
This is one of the most enjoyable books I've ever come across.
I tore through it, often laughing OUT LOUD in inopportune public places (you know, when you are reading something funny and you kind of guffaw and then catch yourself, stifle the laugh, and look around to see if anyone is watching?).It's hard to explain what it is about, because it is really just what the subtitle says: "Growing Up Small In Mooreland, Indiana." It's an autobiographical collection of impressions, moments, memories, funny stories, dares, characters, struggles, and ephemera from the childhood of a unique & hilarious girl (nicknamed Zippy) as she goes about her days in the late '60s/early '70s in a very small town.
Forget it."The next time Mr. Sewell comes, Zippy stays after school, telling him that she's required to wait for Rose and walk home with her.
At the end of the private lesson he offers the girls a ride home, "but we turned it down, even though we had a long, long walk ahead of us." The capper is that Zippy tells another friend, a devout Christian, that she's a failure at doing good deeds and helping others.
Haven's brother and sister teased and tormented her - as older siblings do - and her affectionate parents guided her through a tumultuous childhood.Haven's mother Delonda was a devout Quaker who took (a less than ethusiastic) Zippy to church every Sunday.
Haven explains, "Rose was left-handed and a Catholic - the only one anyone had ever seen in Mooreland.....so it made sense she wanted to be an artist." - Zippy makes many references to her father's gambling.
Finally, Zippy said, "I'm supposed to always every day walk Rose home from school or else.
I'm done with the small amount I read of this book (25 pgs). I stopped when Zippy and her friend took home a little piglet to nurse. When said piglet died, friend swung poor little piglet over fence to feed vicious dog. And all the author commented on was what a perfect arc the little dead body made before it cleared the fence.This is not something I read for my enjoyment time. Shame on the author for writing this tripe.
And on all the crotchety old people (the drugstore owner, the lady with 68+ animals) in the much-afraid way that only a child can.These dispatches, worded cleverly but mostly through the speak of a 5- to 9-year-old girl, let her get away with saying what she will about the people.
In the end, she's penned a breezy, decidedly happy childhood memoir (holy rarity!), and I'm glad she could get it out of her system and, however briefly, lodge it in mine.“I had some disappointments with Santa, but not many.
Nobody had Barbies in Mooreland, and this could have posed a problem for the social Skipper, which might have been what Santa was thinking.
I give it five stars even though I like the sequel, "She Got Up Off the Couch", a bit better...both are so very beautifully written.
I love the narrator's clear-eyed child's view of the people around her, and the fact that this tells the story of a different world than most of us know, the mostly idyllic small town many years ago.
I loved the characterization of Zippy's family, particularly her father, and also that of her friends, since friends are such a huge part of the universe to a kid in grade school.
It's laugh-out-loud funny and sweet, just like Zippy herself.
This is the book I reach for when I need a pick-me-up...a reminder that life is humorous and wonderful and that even the everyday moments are meaningful…that even the quietest, smallest life is worth living. Haven Kimmel's childhood memoir is more than a stroll down memory lane...she pieces together her life, her family, and her town until the reader sees her so clearly, you may feel convinced afterwards that you grew up with her! The writing is sharp, witty, and refreshingly uplifting. You will read "Zippy" and want to return to Moreland, Indiana again and again.
One minute I was laughing out loud (I loved the part when the cat falls down the chimney and gets drop-kicked out the front door by the nast old lady neighbor), because there are some awfully funny bits, and the next I was feeling very awkward and wanted to escape this girl's terrible environment.
What this book did do for me though was make me feel like a better parent.
On the other hand though, I do think that the message of this book is that no matter what Zippy's environment was like she did seem to know that her parents loved her.
This is an absolutely hysterical down-home kind of memoir of Haven Kimmel’s growing up years in Mooreland, Indiana.
She’s goofy and strange, and full of spunk and energy.
Listen to the audiobook, which is read by the author, as she really brings her own experiences to life.
She’s got a childlike innocence still that resonates in this work.
The scene where her dad borrows all of the hunting dogs to get back at a cranky neighbor is truly one of the most amusing things I have ever heard.
This is not one of those “just the facts, ma’am” kind of memoirs – rather, it’s a collection of stories told by a most entertaining storyteller.
A Girl Named Zippy is a great book, not necessarily unique in its trip down memory lane but still a vibrant and sometimes humorous look at 1960's America from the eyes of a child who lived it.
This memoir is 30 very short chapters, stories about Haven Kimmel’s odd family and even odder townspeople in Mooreland, Indiana, in the 1970s, a book about a little girl growing up in a very small town.
It had me reaching for the tissues a few times, but not because it was sad.
There were some touching episodes, but the Kleenex box came in handy for the several times I laughed so hard the tears were streaming.
I was thankful I was at home each time I came to one of those passages, and not in public, because you know how sometimes when you laugh really hard, it can be hard to stop?
I had one of those weekends where every book I started was a complete disappointment.This thing has been floating around my house forever and I was finally desperate enough to read it.
She is anything but.I don't know, it was kind of like she was trying to pull of some David Sedaris moves and failed miserably.
I had trouble even concentrating on this thing.
She kept talking about people torturing animals.
Ugh.There was this part where she was like, "my dad said he was going to turn me upside down and spit in my butt.".
I think I would have kept that one to myself.
I was really, really disappointed with this book (I only read half of it).
But only halfway through, her memoir mentioned SO many times about animals and pets being harmed, killed, neglected, and so on...
I know that in that type of lower small-town rural environment, pets are not coddled like they are today.
But I found it really strange why she had to put into her memoir SO many poor animals and their horrible fates!
It very much turned me off of reading the rest of the book.
Really a disappointment.
I did not like this book so much I threw it away rather than swap or donate. During Zippy's childhood in rural America almost every chapter/event involves animals getting killed and I'm a real animal lover. I just don't think it's funny because it came across that the value placed on these animals lives is minimal. They died in fires, from neglect, etc. so there was nothing completely intentional but I could not appreciate this story.
The whole time I was reading it I kept wondering why it is that I liked it.
Any book that can make me laugh out loud is worth reading.
When I think about the book now, I am much more objective about it and critical of the "true life" characters...Like Zippy's insane mother?
It is interesting the details the author goes into in describing a particular scene because the most "important" things she says are very written so briefly you could almost miss them.
I think I need to read this book again.
2.)Haven Kimmel may be older than me but we both grew up in small towns and I found her literary musings about said life to resonate very deeply.
I remember growing up in rural Maryland and feeling like many worlds must have existed between me and anything even remotely interesting (which may explain my exodus to NYC)...But where small town life may lack the urban culture of museums, dive bars, art houses, coffee shops, student centers, indie film houses etc...there is a certain something about looking back with Zippy on the quirky neighborhood folk she grew up around and her reminiscing about church socials and fire hall bingo that makes a small town gal feel, I dunno, grateful?
occasional cute/humorous anecdotes from kind of a 'white trash' family & their small town, but interspersed w/ an unbelievable amount of animal mistreatment & abuse descriptions. quit on page 65 after the last incident - a live rabbit stapled to a wall. could not bring myself to turn the page. was afraid of what could be next. shocked that this was recommended reading & that anyone could ever get past these incidents & not be truly bothered by them.
Couldn't get through it. Too many stories of dead animals, maimed animals and other grotesque animal stories. Didn't strike well with the vegetarian in me...
A pure reading delight.Haven Kimmel manages to achieve two great feats with her memoir of growing up "small" in a small Hoosier town -- she captures the voice of childhood and all its contradicting, hilarious perspectives and experiences, writing a memoir that shows more than tells readers about growing up in her town in the '60s and '70s.
She also writes about a lifestyle that almost doesn't exist anymore in an environment that has sadly begun to permanently fade into the past.
The privilege of having the freedom to roam around your home and neighborhood without abandon is something kids today rarely get to experience anymore.
(3.5) Maybe you grew up in or near a town like Mooreland, Indiana (population 300), a place full of real characters, not least the members of Kimmel’s family.
Mostly, the book made me think about my mother’s small-town childhood versus my own suburban one, and how I would try to put all my early experiences together in a funny, nostalgic but honest way.
Favorite lines:“I figure heaven will be a scratch-and-sniff sort of place … I will ask for the smell of my dad’s truck, which was a combination of basic truck (nearly universal), plus his cologne (Old Spice), unfiltered Lucky Strikes, and when I was very lucky, leaded gasoline.”“Mom used to say that my dad was a mountain man, which was obviously just a figure of speech, since most of Indiana is flat as a pancake.
This book was pleasurable enough to read, but because it wasn't very plot driven, it took me forev-ER to complete.
Zippy's narration is amusing and I enjoyed her descriptions of a more innocent time of small town Americana, when farm animals were kept in backyards, and kids could ride their bikes (complete with streamers and horns) to the corner drug store for a 26 cent lemon phosphate.
But beyond that, I'm not entirely sure what she was trying to convey in her memoir, and I wasn't compelled to reflect much deeper.
You know that moment in life when you realize that stories of the things that loom large in childhood -- like your absolute terror of the woman who lives next door or your absolute certainty that some of the cards in a deck of playing cards are female and some male -- can be condensed, as if through a trash compactor, into little nuggets of pure cuteness and innocence that you can then hand to others for the rest of your life in one long show-and-tell, knowing they are obligated to laugh nostalgically and then hand you theirs?Actually I don't know quite what or when that moment of realization is, but we all must go through it to get to adulthood, because we all have those anecdotes we tell -- the things we were afraid of, the things we were sure of -- told now with the requisite amused adult chuckle and shake of the head.This book is basically a collection of those from the life of Haven Kimmel, and where you might expect to find them cloying in bulk, they are anything but.
(Although I've never had a lemon phosphate in my life, and I don't even know what that is!)The book had several memorable passages, such as "Dad had a way of emphasizing certain words that was like Winnie-the-Pooh gone bad," or "it's hotter than billy-be-doggone bangtree outside."It makes me realize how much excess our children are growing up with to read about how special that one Christmas present was, or how much Kimmel coveted her friend's small jewelry box from Acapulco (lined with red velvet and covered with little shells).
The chapters did not really connect to each other in any way; it was like a series of short stories about small town life.
I actually would fall asleep reading it even in the middle of the day and I honestly didn't think it was that funny; I guess if you think watching rabbits being killed or a cat being thrown out the front door by an old stinky lady or the fact that another old lady was living with over 60 dead pets in her house is funny than you will like this book.
Often times I was wincing and wanted out of this horrible environment that this little girl, who didn't seem to be affected one way or the other, was living in.
3.5 This was my first "pool book" of the summer--you know, a paperback book you can read at the pool that you don't mind getting wet and is something you can pick up and get into quickly.
A funny book written about the same time I was growing up as well.
But I could sense tension between the family members and sure enough, it looks like there's a second book she's written to continue the tale.
It does make you realize how summertime activities of kids have changed in 2 generations.
I remember having scabs on my knees from June to September and now kids' knee are completely bruise free!
This would have been 4 stars, but I had to 'up it' one star because I could identify with so much of it.
The author is very close to my own age, and just how she describes life and her neighbors and friends, sounded eerily familiar.
It brought back memories.This was laugh out loud funny in some parts.
It was hard to control the laughter in public.
The author handles it as delicately as possible and adds humor to balance that out.
Overall, I loved this.....and I would read it again.
I especially loved the mother in this.

