https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/124918.Airport
For me, knowing as little as I do about airport management or piloting a commercial aircraft, what stood out the most was the changes in security protocol.
It is no longer possible for people who are not ticketed passengers to get on board a commercial aircraft prior to takeoff and the security protocols for passengers and their luggage is much more rigid.
The blocked runway necessitated redirecting outbound flights to an alternate runway rarely utilized these days owing to the fact that it meant air traffic ascending directly overhead a community called Meadowood and due to the inclement weather most pilots were not adhering to noise abatement procedures.
Sjajan komercijalni autor ranga Šeldona i sličnih, a sada potpuno zaboravljen... Samo ga se još bibliotekari sećaju i poneki čitalac koji nabasa negde na neku njegovu knjigu... A nekada se čekali u redu po bibliotekama da se dođe do njegovih knjiga... Šteta...
So much has changed in the aviation business that I'm not sure younger readers would be able to relate to a lot of the details in the story.
I'm old enough that I remember being able to go to the gate to see off a family member, or meet someone as they come off of a flight.
Particularly towards the end when the story arcs come together and the pace changes from the details of running the airport and build towards the emergency at the end.There are some great details brought out in the book; the way that airport terminals are designed, the noise abatement procedures that airlines have to follow - and the danger they pose.
Released on 1968 I know that some of Hailey's predictions about commercial aviation have not come true, others have and then there are events that were probably outside of Mr. Hailey's imagination at the time he was writing this novel.
However ,despite the obvious dated details throughout the novel (not to mention the depiction of females and relations between men and women), it's still a very effective read.
There are hints of that of course (this was a mainstream novel written in the late sixties after all), but what I found myself reading was a well-researched and competently written novel of a modern airport.
Understand that it was written in 1966/67 and just read it.
one of the most wonderful books I've ever read!you can't put it down when you start reading!
Piensen en Mad Men y se darán una idea súper clara de los héroes de Hailey.Esta caracterización resulta tan exagerada que Aeropuerto como novela ya no es conocida ni siquiera por su adaptación a la pantalla, sino por la parodia de ésta (al igual que las novelas de caballerías son conocidas más por el Quijote).
Hubo tantos aspectos de la trama que no podía sino leer con una sonrisa acordándome de ¿Y dónde quedó el piloto?Pero al final es una lectura de aeropuerto sobre un aeropuerto.
Ah, y una más es que todo un aspecto de la trama gira en torno a una pista bloqueada por la ineptitud de un piloto de Aeroméxico.
Some author would describe more than one generation, some would use it to live a life of a specific character, some would show a reader different worlds or different times - a lot of possibilities.
Arthur Hailey decided to use them just for one evening, not even a day.
Place.You are introduced to the airport as the main setting of the evening, the centre would sound better.
No. That is what I like - possibility to get into different mind, to see the situation from different perspectives, to understand the motives and how different lives and actions lead to each other and meet somewhere.
Air travel was so different when this book was written.There was none of the suffocating security encountered these days but terrorism was still a concern.Hailey deftly weaves together several sub plots about people working in aviation,airline captains and air hostesses,air traffic controllers,a stowaway and a terrorist.There is also an airport manager who is in the thick of all the action.It all comes together in a compelling climax.The movie adaptation,starring Burt Lancaster is also very good.The book introduced me to Arthur Hailey and I enjoyed his other books as well.
This book was so silly. The Genral Manager of the airport has a brother-in-law who is a seniorpilot and a brother who is an Air Traffic Controller there. I'm surprised that his 14 year olddaughter isn't a stewardess! Of course he's going through a divorce because he's having anaffair. The only redeeming value about this book was it's descriptions of the inner workingson a large airport ca. 1968.
I read this book years ago when I was a teenager. I re-read it a few years back. The book was just as good as when I read it the first time. It is a wonderful book that is so hard to put down when you start reading it. I also saw the movie and loved it, but I by far enjoyed the book more.This book made me love Arthur Hailey's writing. He does such a great job with fleshing out his characters and the plotting in his books is wonderful. Absolutely loved this book.
AirportArthur HaileyFiction498 pagesThis was a long book to get through. I did not think I would ever finish this book. I almost gave up on this one.
How individuals like Airport Manager, the ATC, the Pilot, the Stewardess , a broke contractor, a Police officer , a Stowaway , the insurance agent all from different walks of life are connected to the central theme of the book and Arthur Hailey manages it to integrate all so seamlessly , that you don't loose the story at any moment of time.
The second part of the book will keep you on the edge and compel you to turn the pages faster in want of knowing what happens next.Meticulous detailing of day to day functioning of the Airport.
From what I came to know about the writer Arthur Hailey is that he takes one situation, one place and at a time and digs deep into it, puts every little detail accounted for and gives a vast book.
Great detailing I must say.Generally in a plane hijack or in any situation where crisis happens it’s mandatory to introduce those characters so that we can relate to them, sympathies them.
The other people who had fought or quarreled with them are there in the plane.The way we start to sympathize them is so beautifully done in this book.
Otherwise, skim.The book had an interesting assortment of characters - but they could have been much, much better.They were by no means flawless, but it annoyed me nevertheless that there was only one significant male character who didn't condone cheating on his wife because, we're informed, she's still beautiful.
Rather, they're described from the male characters' point of view.
The things these people thought and said (Also, there's a free moral lecture on abortion inserted somewhere in the book)and the problems they faced are of so little significance to a modern reader as to be boring.
The only character to appear in all of the movies was Joe Patroni, head of Maintenance Operations (played by George Kennedy).
In addition to the snow caused problems, there is an airborne bomb and several side plots of romance and domestic relations.Novel - The story takes place at Lincoln International, a fictional Chicago airport, mainly over the course of one evening and night, as a massive snowstorm plays havoc with airport operations.
His chief problem is the unexpected closure of primary Runway 30, caused when a departing airliner for a Mexican airline turns off past the wrong side of a runway marker light, burying the plane's landing gear in the snow, and blocking the runway.
Після “Отеля” питання “Що читати далі?” відпало само-собою. “Аеропорт” пішов на ура. За вікенд. Артур Хейлі — він як крутий повар: бере просту каструлю (готель, аеропорт), додає в неї інгредієнти, які були вирощені на власній дачі (говоні герої, працівники цих закладів, чудово знають особливості своєї роботи), наповнює страву життям (вирішеннями буденних і не дуже проблем) і додає трохи приправи за смаком (персональні особливості героїв, їхні життя). В результаті виходить першокласний суп з унікальним неповторним смаком!Резюме: “Аеропорт” — крута книжка, але “Отель” — мій фаворит. Всеодно, Маст рід!
I have no idea what it was about this book that appealed to me, but I find all the minutiae about running a big-city airport utterly fascinating, and I've read it countless times since.
A brilliant narrative you can't help visualizing. Was sucked into the story so hard, that couldn't read anything else in parallel. An exceptional pleasure to read for an aviation geek.
Otlichnyaya kniga v janre triller, chitaetsya vzahleb i derjit chitatelya v napryajenii vsu knigu. Srazu provodila paralleli s documentalnym filmom "Airport Dubai", gde takje napryajenno pokazyvaetsya jizn airporta. Glavnye geroi, takie kak Mal, Patroni, te je piloty, napomnili geroev Atlant raspravil plechi, ludei, kotorye gotovy brat otvetstvennost, delat vse kachestvenno, dlya ludei, dlya resheniya problemy. Zamechatelnaya kniga.
Seriously, Arthur Hailey was an amazing writer. Not to mention a meticulous researcher. His characters were beautifully drawn and his plotting was astounding.
And that is why I loved every bit of the book for the description of airport and how an airport was run back then.Arthur Hailey was one such guy who could see what the future held for aviation industry.
He explains how a control room worked and how different sections of an airport were knit together to work in tandem during an emergency.Along with the attractive side of the airport functioning, he also shows the dark side of the airline industry.
So those who aren't too keen on airport functioning they have the thriller section waiting for them.
The novel, set around an airport like O'Hare in Chicago.
I expected a better story, after enjoying his previous work, "Hotel." Instead, this novel was a compilation of all the research Hailey did about aviation and airports, and lacked convincing characters or development.
The pages are filled with flashbacks and memories, which may slow things down somewhat, but not as much as the descriptions of the mechanics of snow plowing and how to steal tiny liquor bottles.The novel has not aged well, because aviation has grown tremendously in the past 50 years since the novel was published.
For those of you as interested in airports and air travel as I am, you will love this book purely for the detailed look inside the workings of an American airport in the 1960s.
I would love someone to rewrite this book in the post 9/11 world.
Despite those differences, bar a few chauvinistic comments (after all, this book was written in the '60s), everything is still relatable.The "thriller" element is very much a slow-burn rather than a quick-paced Jack Reacher type novel.
If you're reading for that angle alone, you'll probably be disappointed.I think this book could do with an epilogue.
Airport by Arthur Hailey is the kind of book which can be enjoyed by patient readers who can survive the first 150 pages of the book.
In this book, the first hundred and twenty five pages are a tad bit boring with the author first introducing characters then straying of to the progress in aviation technology.
the incredible slowness in the beginning and the straying off the course by the author in some places reduced one star from my review.
The book, after gaining enough momentum becomes unputdownable.
You crave for more action and it is duly provided by the author.
ترجمه 150 صفحهای ذبیح الله منصوری از این کتاب 476 صفحهای در واقع اصلا ترجمه نیست. توضیحات اضافی در مورد وسعت آمریکا و مسافت طولانی بین شرق و غرب آمریکا و توضیحاتی که در جای جای ترجمه در مورد فرودگاه و عملکرد موتورهای هواپیما آورده شده واقعا توی ذوق خواننده میزند. برگردانی که آقای منصوری انجام دادند اسمش ترجمه نیست، حتی آن را اقتباس هم نمیشود نامید. وقتی قسمت های پر از هیجان کتاب را چه در نسخه انگلیسی و چه در ترجمه محمد بهفروزی با ترجمه آقای منصوری مقایسه کردم حقیقتاً تعجب کردم که هیچ چیز از هیجا
ترجمه 150 صفحه‌ای ذبیح الله منصوری از این کتاب 476 صفحه‌ای در واقع اصلا ترجمه نیست.
برگردانی که آقای منصوری انجام دادند اسمش ترجمه نیست، حتی آن را اقتباس هم نمی‌شود نامید.
وقتی قسمت های پر از هیجان کتاب را چه در نسخه انگلیسی و چه در ترجمه محمد بهفروزی با ترجمه آقای منصوری مقایسه کردم حقیقتاً تعجب کردم که هیچ چیز از هیجان و جذابیت کتاب باقی نمانده و اصلا چطور چنین ترجمه ای میتواند چنین رمان پر طرفداری را به مخاطب فارسی زبان بشناساندتوصیه می‌کنم اگر قصد دارید ترجمه فارسی این کتاب را بخوانید حتما ترجمه محمد بهفروزی را بخوانیدhttps://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2...
I decided to read this book because it's been quite popular among russian students these days.
So usually when I do such things I do not enjoy "the popular books" as it was the case with "To kill a mockingbird", for example.
But this one is a treasure!
I can say that probably it's one of the best I've read in Engish so far.
Surprisingly, not being a bit fan of adventure stories, still I was glued to the book even on escalators in the tube.
The plot is simple but I was so worried for the passangers of the flight!
Վատիկը չէր, բայց շատ սխալ ժամանակ էի ընտրել կարդալու: Պարզվեց հոլիվուդյան սցենարով գիրք կատաստրոֆայի մասին հիմա հեչ հավես չունեի կարդալ, դրա համար էլ ձգձգվեց: Բայց ընդհանուր շատ լավ գիրք էր: Լիքը մանրամասներ իմացա օդանավակայանների ներքին խոհանոցից: Թե ոնցա աշխատանքը կազմակերպվում, մանավանդ ֆորս-մաժորների ժամանակ:Եթե ուզում եք թեթևից մի քիչ ծանր գիրք կարդաք, սա իսկականնա )) Հ.Գ. Ուզում եմ մի հատ կինոն էլ նայեմ սրա, շատ հինա, բայց ասում են լավնա )
7 сложнейших часов из жизни аэропорта. Уникальный по своей тематике роман; роман-самолёт, рассматривающий каждого героя как самостоятельный незаменимый в работе всего механизма отсек, со своими переживаниями, хлопотами, личной жизнью. Несмотря на появляющийся местами героический флёр, отлично понимаешь, насколько разнятся человеческие цели - от посадки терпящего крушение самолёта до выигрыша электрической зубной щётки.
Great story, spun brilliantly, and precisely! Sad that we ran out of Arthur Hailey's novels as he has only eleven to his credit!
As the movie (and it's parodies) can have escaped few, it's not a spoiler to say this is a thriller about a damaged aircraft attempting to land safely.
Also, right in the middle of an exciting moment, a character might just feel the need to tell a few tidbits about airport parking structures or bond issues concerning new runways.
Like I say, it's a strange book) The characters who converge into the doomed aircraft are detailed along the way in short bursts.
And lots of beautiful women for them to cheat with who fill out their trim uniforms in all the right places.
