https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1900375.Sorrell_and_Son
Set in England 1926 the story is about a man who devotes his life to making his son's a success.
In the course of the story many themes are explored including life, love, career and familial and marital relationships.
Watch hereThanks Karen!
Whilst this is neither Turgenev nor Foyles War, the father and son here lead caring, insular, and blinkered lives with the soul aim to get Kit his education.
That all abruptly changes and Kit becomes a fantastic surgeon, loving husband and a dutiful son.Honour Bright!"
The issues discussed—in no particular order: negative consequences of British classism (for all classes); the evolution of socialism and the Labour movement; the perils of progressive taxation; end of life care; classism vs.character; men and women living together without benefit of clergy; the role of higher education; bullying; global overpopulation and Malthusianism; birth control; STDs; women novelists; education reform; women who want careers and not children; health service reform; the arrogance of surgeons and other medical elite; the downgrading of women in the medical profession; physician-assisted suicide; sexual repression; the rights of non-married women; ‘progressive’ ideas about ethnicity, ageism and eugenics; the rights of women to have a career; parents living life through their children; midwifery and nursing; ideas of marriage—and not to be forgotten—why cabbage-growing is a sort of metaphor for stuff like Communism.I think I might have left something out.Perhaps the most interesting but disturbing aspect of the novel for modern readers is its treatment of women and sexuality.

A lovely old-fashioned book...just a delight to read.
I seem to recall this one being rather misogynistic.
Made it to page 171, but I could never really get invested and it was starting to make me nervous, so I abandoned it for the next book in my pile.

Well...as I said so many times, there are books which need to be read at a certain age.
I am glad I did it at the right time, like 2 centuries ago, when a teenager.
I remember I read it during one night and I absolutely loved it.2 centuries later, nowadays, I re-read it, because I couldnt remember absolutely anything from it.
The feeling was rather weird.
I would definitely not recommend it for somebody who is over 20-25.
The dialogues are obsolete and ridiculously simple for today's taste.But Sorrell, both son and father are interesting characters, even if a bit awkward and not entirely convincing.
A beautiful story about father/son love, growing up and becoming a man.
inspirational
