https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/645090.May_I_Bring_a_Friend_
Book Review  May I Bring a Friend? by Beatrice Schenk De Regniers is one of those special children's picture books we all must love. And for that, it gets 4+ out of 5 stars from this book lover.I used this book when I was teaching a class back in college as part of a collection of books on lessons for first graders back in Bethlehem, Pennsylvania. Imagine being invited to tea by the King and Queen, and having the audacity to ask if you could bring a friend... What could the royal couple do but
by Beatrice Schenk De Regniers is one of those special children's picture books we all must love.
And for that, it gets 4+ out of 5 stars from this book lover.I used this book when I was teaching a class back in college as part of a collection of books on lessons for first graders back in Bethlehem, Pennsylvania.
And they say yes for several days, all the time our main character bring a new friend from the zoo.
full of great pictures and rhymes to help with memory.
To teach children to be kind to everyone no matter their differences.
For those new to me or my reviews...
Many thanks to their original creators.[polldaddy poll=9729544]	[polldaddy poll=9719251]
A child is invited to tea with the king and queen; he asks if he can bring a friend.
The child is invited back for successive meals, each time accompanied by an increasingly wild animal.
There was some cognitive dissonance for me between the illustrations, in which the king and queen look rather distressed or shocked, and the text in which they speak politely.
It was an okay book, but there are several similar ones I prefer: Sesyle Joslin's that I mentioned already, The Tiger Who Came to Tea, Alligators All Around, or for Montersor's illustrations I preferred The Witches of Venice.
Very cute, fun story about a child who is invited to various events (tea, Halloween party, etc.) by a very amiable king and queen.
The child always wants to bring a friend, and the queen and king are happy to oblige, even when their events become a bit of a menagerie.
Though I loved the old-fashioned charm of the illustrations, the imagination and animals, and the fun rhyme scheme, should still appeal to children today.
I really, really liked this book (except for the final illustration which made me a bit sad, though I don't think it was meant to.)
The royal setting and main characters are nothing unique here, but the rhyming is so well done and fun, it is virtually perfect. And it nicely complements the unexpected and playful escapades. The pencil illustrations are unusually detailed and some of the expressions on their faces are hilarious!
A favorite since childhood. There is something about the repetition of the story, and the rhymes, and the silliness, combined with the fussily detailed illustrations. It just makes me smile! It makes my kids smile! It's just so charming!
May I bring a friend?
by Beatrice Schenk De Regniers is about a young boy who gets invited by the King and Queen to have tea, breakfast, dinner and pie.
The text in this picture book rhymes and repeats itself and the illustrations were in black and white drawings when the King and Queen were talking to the little boy and then each page had vibrant pictures when his friends were revealed.
The way that the text and pictures were laid out made it more interesting and exciting to read.
The 1965 Caldecott Winner-Utilizes mostly couplet style rhyming to tell the story of a boy invited to visit the king and queen; the boy always asks to bring a friend, to which the monarchs happily consent, even if the friend is a lion, seal, giraffe, hippo, monkeys or an elephant; Very cute story; good for read aloud
I loved how accepting the King and Queen were of all of the little boy's friends.
This book expressed great friendship and acceptance, but also acceptance in diversity as well since the friends were all so different.
The book had a repetitive paragraph every time the little boy would ask to invite a new friend over to the King and Queen's house that reminded me of a chorus to a song.
The book was so fun to read that I felt like great amounts of color weren't even needed to stay interested in the book.
An invitation from the King and Queen for tea brings about several surprises as the invitations continue and the many different friends that are allowed to attend the gatherings, and in the end a change of plans leads to a wonderful outcome for the King and Queen in return for their hospitality.
For a week, each day the King and Queen continue to invite the boy to the castle for lunch, pie, among other things, and their boy accepts but always asking if he could bring a friend.
Until one day the boy received an invitation from the King and Queen to have tea at the castle, to which he answers that that time they should come too the City Zoo to meet them instead.
In my online search looking for the story, I came across the lesson plans so this is a great choice to make when looking for a book for children
Book summary: This is an award-winning book about a king and a queen who invite a boy to their events.
Every time the boy asks the king and queen if he can bring a friend.
The boy brings his friend which is....a zoo animal.
Then the boy asks the king and queen to come to an event with his friends...at the zoo!Grade level: K-4Appropriate classroom use: The students can do activities with zoo animals and identify what each animal in the story are and what letter their name starts with.
Then they can practice their reading with this book and do a lesson on zoo animals.
I think I used to wonder how such a little boy could make friends with animals.4/27/10 & 4/29 & 5/3 & 5/5: This book sprang off the shelf and back into memory.
Then waiting to see what animals would come next kept their attention in a book that would otherwise drag for preschool age or in a storytime setting.
One older dad and his 4 daughters were new to ST, and he wasn't familiar with this particular one; said he really liked it.5/14/14: Did a Miss Heidi's Mom storytime theme, since her birthday was coming up.
SynopsisA young boy is invited to tea by the king and queen several days in a row.
The king and queen enjoy this so much that on the final day they had tea at the city zoo.ReviewsThis repetitive, rhyming story is very sweet.
The king and queen are gracious hosts and the boy uses his best manners.
But the story is so sweet and timeless that parents will want to read it repeatedly to their children.Critical ReviewsGood Media/Good KidsThis review measures books by their ethicality.
In this 1965 Caldecott Medal Winner the narrator is fortunate enough to be invited to tea by the king and queen, and naturally, he asks if he may bring a friend.
The animals and narrator repay the ever-patient king and queen with an invitation to join them at the zoo.
The colors of the illustrations are bright, and the images show smiling faces on all the characters, making this one quite popular with young readers who must surely harbor a desire to bring an animal or two to tea or for a visit as well.
Readers never learn what makes the narrator so appealing to the king and queen.
May I bring a Friend is a story of how a young boy brings his ‘friends’ to eat with the king and queen, the funny twist is that his friends happen to be animals at the zoo.
The illustrator used black and white while when King and Queen were focus of the page but, when the boy and his friends came to visit the page bursted with color.
This emphasized the surprise of each animal he brought to the palace.
None of these colors are the actual colors of the animals, for instance the giraffe the boy brought to the palace was orange.
This might possibly be the greatest picture book of all time.This king and queen are just hanging out at the castle and every single day, they are just like, "why don't we invite that kid over to the castle to hang out?"So, everyday they invite him, and everyday the kid asks if he can invite a friend.
And they are always like, "yeah."And the friend is a giraffe!
Or, a seal.
And the king and queen respond with poetry, only sometimes the poetry doesn't all fit within the established pentameter.
It makes this book even better.This is the greatest.
This 1965 Caldecott Award winning title is part of the mini study I have been doing this weekend on past winners of the award.
Flat presentation of scenery (where carpets are circular vs.
eliptoid) and solid block color backgrounds (used to communicate mayhem in this work vs.
a variety of color used to introduce the animal the boy is bringing to meet the King and Queen) allow animals to pop off of the page.
Light verse begs for read-aloud.
I see tones of Amos McGee in this early work that would win the award some 45 years before the Stead title.
An interesting book, filled with short verses, lots of colorful illustrations and an interesting bunch of friends, joining their pal to visit the King and Queen. We've read this one a couple of times.This book was selected as one of the books for the April 2015 - Quarterly Caldecott discussion at the Picture-Book Club in the Children's Books Group here at Goodreads.
This book is all about a little boy/girl who is invited to hangout with a king and queen. Each time they are asked, they ask if they can bring a friend. This book rhymes. By the end of the book, the king and queen were invited to hangout with their friends. They ended up hanging out at the zoo , because that's where all their friends were. They were animals. I thought this book was cute, but also very repetitive.
This was delightful. While the illustrations are big old-fashioned, they're still loads of fun, and I love that the king and queen are just as delighted by all the friends as the narrator is, and that eventually the narrator returns the favor. It's just plain fun, and that's perfect.ETA: Yep, still fun.
A young boy receives invitations to visit the king and queen every day of the week and brings a different animal guest each day. The story just wasn't that engaging to me and the pink backgrounds on the illustrations were strange. Caldecott winner.
This is the sort of book which leads the child to anticipate what will come next. The 'friends' are unpredictable and the story funny. Overall while it's not my favorite artwork and some of the rhyming doesn't quite work out, it's still a funny story and very enjoyable to read.
I think my main problem with this book is that the little boy never actually asks if he may bring a friend; he simply states that he has a friend he'd like to bring.
It’s appropriate for this young audience because its very well-written with short, rhyming blocks of text that are descriptive, but concise.
Some pages of the book are one color (yellow, pink, orange, etc.) and scenes are drawn entirely in black pen.
Other pages in the book use four or five differents colors with shapes and details created in strong black pen strokes.
Children will enjoy examining the illustrations to discover what new friend the young boy brings.
This would be a wonderful book to use with children learning to read aloud because of the engaging illustrations and rhyming text.
This story about a King and Queen welcoming different zoo animals into their castle is a fun one to read with a group of young readers.
Although some of the pages have several sentences on them, they are repetitive from page to page and consist of mostly simple words like different days of the week.
In this books, Montresor’s illustrations consist of some pages with color, others with black and white, some double page spread, others are single and the words stay on a blank page.
What is unique about some of the author’s work is that some pages even use just one color in a digital format and what looks like pen.
I think children would make a great association with this style and royalty because of the bright colors, and this would also help them understand the book better.
Some notable physical elements of this book are the different uses of black and white versus color.
The child in this story is always seen in a colored spread, while the King and Queen are in a black and white spread.
I teach a preschool class, so I would love to read them this book and see what they think of the colors, characters, and fun repetition of bringing animals to tea!
It speaks of a youthful boy who is invited to tea by the king and queen.
The boy asks to bring a friend each time, and the king and queen agree.
Despite the mayhem caused by these visitors inside the castle, the king and the queen do not get angry and accept the boy’s invitation to visit the zoo with him next time instead of tea.
Although somewhat chaotic, the pictures obviously won it the caldecott medal and demonstrate a variety of colors ranging from black and white, to royal shades.
Overall, this book was cute and is a good read.
Children would have a fun time identifying all the different animals the young boy brings for tea and going through the days of the week.
The story reminds me of when I was a child, always having tea parties with all of my stuffed animals, and this book brings that imagination to life with mischievous monkeys and hungry hippos.The incorporation of alternating black and white and colorful illustrations, is one of the first components that caught my attention when flipping through this book.
They text is simple and vague, with the illustrations providing most of the detail on who the young boy brings to his tea party and the fun they have.
The plot is about a boy who is invited by the king and queen to have meals at the palace and each day of the week the King and Queen let him bring a friend.
The surprise in the story is that each friend is a different exotic animal that joins the royal meals.
It is a predictable book and has a rhyming chorus throughout the book and you also know that a new animal is going to be invited to the meal but this is fun so kids can get into in and predict what will happen.
This book is about a king and queen to decide to invite the hero of the town, a little boy, to their get togethers.
With that idea in the boy's head he decides to invite his animal friends.
On the pages when the king and queen invite the boy to special royal events no colors are used.
On the pages were the little boy brings his animal friend along to these events the author uses bright neon colors is exaggerate the outrageousness of the event.
