https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/28363972-the-last-days-of-night
All stories are love stories. Paul remembered someone famous saying that. Thomas Edison’s would be no exception. All men get the things they love. The tragedy of some men is not that they are denied, but that they wish they’d loved something else. Paul Cravath, a young attorney in late 19h Century New York City, is drawn into a battle of the titans, as George Westinghouse engages him to defend his company against a lawsuit filed by his nemesis. The amount demanded is staggering, one billion do
Alternating Current, or AC, was a technology that had been thought to be unusable for large scale power, but a way was found, by one of the great inventive geniuses of all time, a Serbian émigré named Nikola Tesla.
Cravath (well after the events depicted in this book) and RedmayneYa can’t have a modern American novel without some sort of love interest, and Moore checks that box, in the form of toast-of-the-town opera singer, Agnes Huntington, another person pulled from the pages of history.
George Westinghouse - from the Old Post-GazetteOne of the spiffy things about the novel is that Moore looks at the sausage making of how public opinion was manipulated.
That enthusiasm rubbed off on me, and I enjoyed this book more than I expected.The Last Days of Night is historical fiction about the electrifying feud between Thomas Edison and George Westinghouse in the late 1800s.
We see the battle through the eyes of a young lawyer, Paul Cravath, who Westinghouse hired to represent him in the long legal fight against Edison.
I thought this story was so interesting I plan on looking up some of those nonfiction books, especially a biography on Tesla.Recommended for fans of historical fiction.Favorite Quotes"The death of mathematical education will be the death of this country," proclaimed [Westinghouse].
Paul had once thought that Thomas Edison was the most American man of his generation.
Scientists like Thomas Edison, George Westinghouse, and Nikola Tesla, businessmen such as J.P. Morgan, and a lesser known individual, at least to me personally, by the name of Paul Cravath, a young attorney who helped fight the battle of the invention of the light bulb and the debate between direct versus alternating current, D/C vs A/C – all these persons played a role in what we now take for granted as standard household amenities.This book is an engaging, fictionalized account, based heavily on fact, of the “war” between Edison and Westinghouse during the 1880s.
All the major characters in the book were actual people, and most of the events described really took place, only maybe not in the same particular sequence, which made the story even more fascinating and authentic.
Paul Cravath is hired by George Westinghouse to plead his patent dispute over who invented the light bulb pitting him against Thomas Edison, who got the patent first.
I intend to add the books the author suggested to my reading list to get a more detailed non-fictional accounting of these events as well.
After reading this book, I realize how spectacular the light bulb is.
It is written around the electricity “current war”, the so-called battle between AC (alternating current) and DC (direct current) that took place in the USA, most in New York, NY, in the later 1880s and early 1890s, with Thomas Edison (DC) and George Westinghouse (AC) being the two main antagonists.The central character is Paul Cravath, the young attorney retained to defend the Westinghouse organization in a light bulb patent infringement suit brought by the Edison company.
Thus the story is written largely from his perspective, and provides the opportunity for “third party” views of the other key players, Edison, Westinghouse and Nikola Tesla.
I really appreciated this as many historical fiction novels leave you wondering about the facts of the novel and Graham Moore certainly ticks all the boxes when it comes to historical fiction for me.I also loved the quotes at the beginning of each chapter and found my self writing them down as I was going along.I listened to this one on audible and it was terrific, easy to understand and pacing and narration was perfect.A throughly enjoyable Novel, well written and educational as well.
5★ “ Intellectual property has the shelf life of a banana. —Bill Gates” This was sure a surprise! I don’t know what I was expecting, but not something as interesting and entertaining as this wonderful example of ‘historical faction’. Lots of factual information, but nothing dry or boring, as it is when popular authors try to find a subject to ‘teach’ us and then work a story around it the way I find a lot of popular chick lit, in particular. Authors pick a place for romance—dairy, hospital, Pari
This reads like the real deal—well, real in the sense that the main characters are very real people who did sue each other and make deals at the time the United States was just beginning to enjoy the wonders of electric lighting in the late 1880s.Every chapter is introduced by an interesting quote, sometimes from a current figure, like Bill Gates, above, or Steve Jobs, and sometimes by an historical one, like Karl Popper or Edison himself.Our main character was a real attorney, Paul Cravath.
Power Plays: May Make for Fantastic Film (Young Manhattan Attorney from Nashville Takes on NY Business Titan Notorious for Narcissism and Bullying)This novel was written by a novelist turned Hollywood screenwriter with, ostensibly, a big payday in mind.
I read somewhere that British actor Eddie Redmayne had already signed on to star as the protagonist Paul Cravath, a 26-year-old Manhattan attorney hired by George Westinghouse in 1906 to represent his company in a lawsuit filed against it by the litigious Thomas Edison, a patent-hogging inventor and NYC business titan notorious for his narcissistic personality and bullying bluster (quite timely).
The book primarily focuses on Thomas Edison, Nikola Tesla and George Westinghouse, but you will recognize many other names that appear throughout the story.
It is quite apparent the amount of research he put into this book as evidenced by his notes at the end.The story is told with a quick narrative style from the perspective of Paul Cravath, a recent law graduate who represents George Westinghouse.
Moore’s writing really brings his characters to life, and Cravath became an interesting character to follow and root for.I have read that Eddie Redmayne will star in an upcoming film adaptation of this book.
I was intrigued by the title and know the author's work so I requested this book from Net Galley.
I loved the story told by the lawyer who was and is the least known major character in this historical novel.
But that is to be expected with luminaries (I am using that description a little tongue-in-cheek because light & light bulbs are a big part of the book!) such as Edison, Westinghouse, Morgan & Tesla on stage!
Of course, there is a love story there!
The book is very well written and I loved it!
Thank you Random House & Net Galley!
- Thomas EdisonUntil I read this book, I had an impression of what it would have been like to see the night lit for the first time.
Thomas Edison was one of these scientists, of course, and he was a jolly good fellow.
Though it is a work of fiction, the majority of it is historically accurate and all of the characters did exist including Thomas Edison, Nikola Tesla, George Westinghouse, and Westinghouse's attorney, Paul Cravath.
In fact, the firm he eventually started is still in existence and continues to use the Cravath Sytem which has been credited with changing the way lawyers practice and law firm are structured.)This book is more intriguing that I could have imagined.
I enjoyed this take on 3 giants in American history: Tesla, Westinghouse, and Edison.Preceding each chapter was a quote from various inventors, scientists and businessmen; Steve Jobs, Bill Gates and Carl Sagan among them."I have not failed. I’ve just found ten thousand ways that don’t work.” Thomas Edison. I listened to this on audio and it was excellent. Highly recommended to anyone wanting to learn more about the current wars via an entertaining medium.
I have never had the pleasure of previously reading anything by Graham Moore but he is an author I can already say I want to devour every published word from!
Paul is attempting to rescue his client from the 312 court cases that Edison has attempted to throw at Westinghouse in their rival race to be the sole contributor of lighting the whole of America with their new technological advancements.The portrayal of America during this historical period were apt, in regards to the the cultural and societal restraints placed upon the characters.
I love a good historical novel that teaches me about events about which I was unaware.
Moore walks us through not only the history but the effect of electricity on the country and makes it interesting.
Ditto for his ability to describe the lawsuits and patents.
He explains how an entire lawsuit could hang on the use of the word “the” instead of “a”.
It was as if Tesla tossed up into the air all the words he knew on a given subject, and then walked away before he could see where they landed”.
This would be a good novel for people who think they only like nonfiction.
Many, many interesting facts and history lessons.
I often quote this to the children I teach.I'd never heard of Westinghouse, had heard of Nikola Tesla, but could tell you nothing about him.So I learned a lot about electricity, the difference between AC and DC currents and the Currents War in America during the last decades of the nineteenth century.This type of book demonstrates precisely why I love historical fiction- the perfect combination of learning and entertainment, where the author spends the time doing the research and we, the readers, profit in so many ways.
Thomas Edison, Nikola Tesla e George WestinghouseNo início do romance o escritor Graham Moore (n. 1981) avisa:  ”A Luz da Noite”  é uma obra de ficção histórica. Além dos nomes, acontecimentos e locais verdadeiros e conhecidos que constam desta narrativa, todos os nomes, personagens, locais e incidentes são fruto da imaginação do autor ou são utilizados ficcionalmente.” Paul Cravath é um jovem advogado, formado na Columbia Law School, sem experiência profissional que aceita defender George Westi
Além dos nomes, acontecimentos e locais verdadeiros e conhecidos que constam desta narrativa, todos os nomes, personagens, locais e incidentes são fruto da imaginação do autor ou são utilizados ficcionalmente.” Paul Cravath é um jovem advogado, formado na Columbia Law School, sem experiência profissional que aceita defender George Westinghouse que tem trezentas e doze acções judiciais no valor de mais de mil milhões de dólares interpostas pelo também inventor Thomas Edison.
No final há uma Nota do Autor - com onze páginas em que Graham Moore relata: ”Sendo uma obra de ficção histórica, este romance destina-se a ser uma dramatização da História, não um registo da mesma.
1888 in New York, and newly out of Columbia Law School, lawyer Paul Cravath had his future ahead of him.
His first client was George Westinghouse who wanted Paul to win over Thomas Edison – the invention of the light bulb and the patent was at the forefront – Edison was suing Westinghouse.Naïve and fresh, Cravath had one thing in his favour – he had no other clients and was dogged; determined to make a name for himself with success.
Edison was dangerous; Cravath needed to better him.
I’ve just found ten thousand ways that don’t work.” Thomas Edison.This was a great piece of historical fiction that pits titans Westinghouse vs.
Edison’s company was many times the size of Westinghouse’s, loaded with lawyers, scientists and cash so it did not appear to be a fair race.
I was puzzled when Westinghouse hires a no-name inexperienced 26-year old lawyer named Paul Cravath to fight his battles.
But then it became clear; Westinghouse’s thought was that Paul might possibly be the only lawyer in town who wasn’t already ‘bought’ by Edison.
Both Westinghouse and Edison were genius, had a fierce rivalry.
The accounts of Thomas Edison, George Westinghouse, Nikola Tesla, J.P. Morgan, Alexander Graham Bell and Westinghouse's attorney Paul Cravath, were all based on the actual person.
The lies, deceit, and experiments that took place in the race to put electricity into homes, businesses and along long stretches of by ways.
This story was not told in a hard factual way, but with insight into the lives and the conversations and arguments that would have taken place at that time.
You follow Cravath's love life, Tesla's decent into and retrieval from madness, and the sly deceitfulness of Edison.
There is a lot to like about this book, as it is a real page tuner, which I read all in one sitting.
Apart from all the machinations going on between the three main characters, there is also a mysterious fire, temporary insanity and a romance between the lawyer and a female opera singer with a curious past (I mean there has to be a romance).All in all, it's one of the best historical novels I've read, and the book is almost entirely based on real historical facts as is evidenced by the several pages of notes from the author at the end of the book.
So liebe ich das Genre des historischen Romans: Eine im Kern wahre Geschichte, die fast an einen Thriller herankommt, eine Prise Fiktion, ein bisschen Wissenschaft, wundervoll entwickelte Figuren, ein spannender Plot, angenehme Sprache und einen Krieg der Theorien eigentlich der Erfinderpersönlichkeiten Edison – Westinghouse – Tesla – der Stromkrieg, der Ende des 19.
Lediglich Nikola Tesla bekommt in seiner Naivität nichts mit und ist letztendlich das eigentliche Opfer der verwickelten Ränkespiele.Am Ende der Geschichte gibt es sowohl für jene, die den historischen Ablauf nicht genau kennen, als auch für alle anderen eine überraschende fiktionale Wendung.
“If you think you can stop me,” Edison said softly, “go ahead and try. But you’ll have to do it in the dark.”   There is no way this does not make best Historical Fiction at the Goodreads Choice Awards 2016. There is no way this does not get made into a movie. This was good. This was the time of clashing titanic personalities - of Edison, Westinghouse, and Tesla; their war of patents, science, and ideology decided nothing less than the future of our nation - of the world. The book is told from
I hope your first day in hell lasted ten thousand years and that it was the shortest.One of the goals of historical fiction is to transport you to another time and place; here this book falls short.
At the beginning it felt more like a play, character dialogue depending on a set designer for the sense of place.
Still, it's a small complaint for what becomes an engaging story.Well earned four stars and a 2016 Must Read!**UPDATE**Movie Trailer: https://youtu.be/2FTxKFsWz60It looks like they did away with both the MC and Agnes.
I loved it.This book was recommended to me by a friend and while I was only mildly intrigued by the synopsis, I gave it a go.
The author has an easy and smooth writing style with consistent pacing throughout the novel, and I look forward to reading his other works.
I enjoyed the quotations that he included from Gates and Jobs and appreciated the nod to a more modern technology showdown of sorts.
It was especially appreciated how the author went into great detail at the end to separate fact vs fiction as well as to recommend further reading on several figures.
Graham Moore has written vibrant historical fiction with fully fleshed out characters, while maintaining integrity to the true story of the "electricity" battle waged between inventors Edison and Westinghouse in the late 1890s.
Litigation over patents had become a constant combustible state in the days of these early technological inventions.
The narrative which follows Cravath's efforts and his meetings with Nikola Tesla, Paul's own inventive thinking which changed the structure of law practices and his dogged persistence and loyalty documents an exciting tale by which Paul circumvented disaster and ensured the viability of the companies which "electrified" a nation.
I certainly learned a lot about how the light bulb was invented, how much input there was from various scientists and the real brains behind it all, Nicola Tesla.
While this starts out as a battle about who invented the light bulb it really culminates in how the United States ultimately uses electricity, an incredibly interesting story.I enjoyed getting to know Westinghouse, Edison and Nicola Tesla, what a brilliant and eccentric man!
There are lots of subplots in this story and along the way we learn a lot of history.I enjoyed this book but was expecting a little bit more of an interesting story.
Ever finish a book and think to yourself, "This was well-done but not at all what I wanted to read"?That's how I felt about this book, which is a novelization of the conflict between Thomas Edison and George Westinghouse (and, tangentially, Nikola Tesla) in the late 19th century over who had the right to patent the electric light bulb and who therefore would get to profit from the electrification of America.
I knew that things were going to work our nicely enough.I guess you could say that history was a bit of a spoiler alert for me?That being said, though, it's super well-written and interesting -- I learned a lot of facts, assuming Moore didn't get too fast and loose.
Moore’s treatment of each made it easy for me to keep each straight over the course of the narrative and I think the effort went a long way in developing their professional rivalry.The legal struggle between Edison, Westinghouse, and Tesla fascinated me to no end and I loved how Paul’s position placed him right in the thick of it.
I understand her relationship with Paul and appreciated how her presence balanced and rounded his character, but I honestly didn’t feel her necessary to the larger themes and ideas of Moore’s narrative.
From the author of The Sherlockian comes another delightful 19th-century tale involving real-life historical figures! This time it’s Thomas Edison. On the brink of getting electric lights into every household, Edison sues his remaining rival, George Westinghouse, to hopefully bankrupt him. But Westinghouse’s young lawyer will prove to be a match for the electric tyrant. Based on real events, Moore once again wonderfully brings history to light. Er, life.Backlist bump: The Invention of Everything Else by Samantha HuntTune in to our weekly podcast dedicated to all things new books, All The Books: http://bookriot.com/listen/shows/allt...
Dicho así tal vez no suene muy divertido, pero lo cierto es que esta novela es apasionante.
Está narrada desde el punto de vista del jovencísimo abogado que contrató Westinghouse y mantiene un ritmo trepidante.
Es cierto que hay conversaciones sobre cuestiones técnicas relativas a la electricidad, pero incluso esas están escritas de un modo ágil y comprensible (yo soy negada para la física y me han gustado).
La novela enlaza la trama judicial con la vida de Paul, el abogado, y la evolución de la sociedad de la época.
Lo recomiendo a cualquiera que disfrute con las novelas de acción, misterio o con las tramas judiciales.
If I have read only a few chapters I will not bother making comments on it, but if I have invested at least 50% I feel I should at least say why I DNF-ed a book.THE LAST DAYS OF NIGHTWritten by Graham MooreAUGUST 16, 2016; 384 PagesRandom HouseGenre: Historical fiction, history, based on true events(I received an ARC from the NETGALLEY in exchange for an honest review.)1 STAR "A thrilling novel based on actual events, about the nature of genius, the cost of ambition, and the battle to electrify America—from the Oscar-winning screenwriter of The Imitation Game and New York Times bestselling author of The Sherlockian New York, 1888.
