https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/381440.The_Society_of_the_Spectacle
Short aphoristic tract about materialism, advertising, and how many aspects of public life are not reflections of real attitudes, but are instead artificial, and how consumerism sometimes embody aspects of a religious dogma. Debord may even be more right than he knew. Even rebellion, not only that of the 1960s but also the present day, has been made into a commodity.
I never went to university—nor did the majority of my friends—and so never received any manner of guidance or instruction, or even bar table theoretical bullshitting, at the academic level to go along with my burgeoning interest in philosophy, politics, and culture.
The saying goes that life's a circus, but Debord seems to be addressing what exactly must constitute a (post)modern society such that the triumphal late-capitalist incarnation of the circus—with its gaudily omnipresent cultural, political, and economic performers, venues, and effects—need be generated and configured in order to mold and maintain it as such.I read this back in the late-nineties, and truth to tell I can hardly remember any clear-cut details.
*The Society of the SpectacleReview in English below.*Δεν ξέρω κατά πόσο ευθύνεται η μετάφραση του Μπαμπασάκη για την δυσκολία που παρουσιάζει το κείμενο του Debord, αλλά πρόκειται για ένα πολύ απαιτητικό ανάγνωσμα που για να το κατανοήσει κανείς, χρειάζεται απόλυτη συγκέντρωση και αφοσίωση.
Πίσω όμως από την εξεζητημένη γραφή, βρίσκεται ένα ευαγγέλιο που γράφτηκε το '67 και ενέπνευσε τον γαλλικό Μάη του '68.
Το ερώτημα είναι γιατί δεν ενέπνευσε τον Μάη του '98 ή του '08 και πόσοι Μάηδες θα περάσουν ακόμα πριν η κοινωνία του θεάματος καταρρεύσει πάνω στο ίδιο της το πτώμα.Πολλαπλές επαναναγνώσεις ενδείκνυνται.I'm not sure to what extend this particular greek translation is responsible of the difficulty of Debord's text, but it's certainly a demanding read that takes all the focus and devotion one can give it.
The abstractifying of all individual labor and the general abstractness of what is produced are perfectly reflected in the spectacle, whose manner of being concrete is precisely abstraction."Putting aside for a moment the meta mind-fuck jibber-jabber of the author's writing -- not to mention the rich irony of a book (itself a kind of spectacle that's only about 600 year old) littered with such sentences that so expertly illustrate how the spectacle's "...manner of being concrete is precisely abstraction" -- it's pretty clear that Debord laments the development of our species and longs for a return to some supposedly glorious golden era when everything and everybody was awash in "unity." Not sure how far back he wants to go, but given his frustrations with the spectacle's "representation" of the real, the charming paintings of the 18,000 year old Caves of Lascaux in the lands of his own native France clearly isn't far enough.
Perhaps this is the thing to do in intellectual circles, where stylish profundity that requires effort to decode is valued.See if you can figure out what the following means.
But when the contradiction emerges in the spectacle, it is itself contradicted by a reversal of its meaning: the division it presents is unitary, while the unity itself is divided."Say what?
Debord is writing for the intellectual 1% of which he is a member.It's not that he has nothing meaningful to say.
Debord has a great way of summarizing it: the colonization of human life by commodities.
It's people arguing over iPhones vs Androids.
People crafting their identity around fictional characters (* ahem * Tyler Durden * ahem * ) and shunning their relationship to their real environment.
We live in a neoliberalism economy where the most important think we can do is buy, so the best way we can turn the system around it by starting to think critically about your own consumerism.
Let's make Guy Debord cool again.
He actually spends no time explaining the process of how this alienation occurs (ground already tread by Marx), but explores the consequences with astonishing discipline-- extrapolating and extending Marx and Hegel's contributions in an attempt to understand the entirety of the "mental environment" produced by the confluence of advanced capitalism, mass media, and govmnt complacency.
If you have an extraordinary amount of patience, an interest in Marx's concepts of alienation, and/or an interest in culture-jamming, Adbusters (or any other modern interpretation of Situationist ideas), this book is for you!
Continuo rinnovamento tecnologico; fusione economico-statale; segreto generalizzato; falso indiscutibile; eterno presente.La società dello spettacolo schiaccia, imprigiona e domina l’individuo, oramai isolato, in una società che s’è fatta, essa stessa, spettacolo.“La coscienza spettatrice, prigioniera di un universo appiattito, limitato dallo schermo dello spettacolo, dietro il quale la sua vita è stata deportata, non conosce più se non gli interlocutori fittizi che la intrattengono unilateralmente con la loro merce e con la politica della loro merce.
Non siamo altro che consumatori d’illusioni.Guy Debord scrisse La società dello Spettacolo nel 1967.
Una critica aspra rivolta alla società capitalistica e alla sua cultura.
It only took 154 pages to change our world.
It is also a crystal clear view how culture is formed in the 20th (and of course the 21st) century.
The theater is built in front us and we are lead to believe that we actually participate in its adventure.
As Johnny Rotten said at the last Sex Pistols concert in the late 70's "Have you ever felt the feeling that you have been had?" Well, something of that effect.
Nevertheless the show goes on and on.
It's wise to realize that it's a show...
9. in a world that really has been turned on its head, truth is a moment of falsehood.20.
...a use of the commodity arises that is sufficient unto itself; what this means for the consumer is an outpouring of religious zeal in honor of the commodity's sovereign freedom.
the sheer fad item perfectly expresses the fact that, as the mass of commodities becomes more and more absurd, absurdity becomes a commodity in its own right...188.
when a newly independent art paints its world in brilliant colors, then a moment of life has grown old.
by art's brilliant colors it cannot be rejuvenated but only recalled to mind.
THE book about how the technological spectacle consumes us and gives us A.D.D. Excellent to accompany Manufacturing Consent and its analysis of information control.Most are well-aware of Noam Chomsky and Edward Herman and the Propaganda Model presented in Manufacturing Consent, of how the media is pure propaganda.
This book is important in its understanding of how technology/spectacle when controlled by capital alienates, marginalizes, dissipates commonality, community.
A consumer-oriented, historically amnesiac, attention deficit, and mobility addicted society of a never-ending cycle of spectacle is what they need.
In theory I love this book, in it's actual form with words and a seeming intentional difficulty (ya know to avoid being co-opted by the spectacle of the totality of consumerist society) I'm only lukewarm about it. Give me Adorno any day over this.
Eerily prescient, and still a brilliant read about the alienation of labor, the advertisement of time, and the banalization of space.
We're all duped by the illusions produced by contemporary consumer society. But fear not: simply utilize your free time creatively and grant autonomous political and economic powers to self-governed workers' councils within every vestige of society and all will be well. Best quote: "Plagiarism is necessary. Progress demands it." (p. 145)
Ὅ,τι πιὸ ἔγκυρο ἔντονο εὐφυὲς γιὰ νὰ κατανοήσει κανεὶς σὲ τί κόσμο ζοῦμε τὰ τελευταῖα 50 χρόνια.
Bright sunny styles starting at $8 are spectacle. Tanning beds and stairmasters are spectacle. Sonny and Cher are spectacle. Sonny as mayor is spectacle. Any mayor “cleaning up” Times Square and polishing it with corporate spit is spectacle. Little New York in Las Vegas is spectacle. Little New York in Vegas in Dubai is spectacle. Little New York in Vegas in Dubai inside Tokyo Disney in a feature-film starring a topless Nicolas Cage saving the natives with guns in a Gatorade jihad is spectacle.
Little New York in Vegas in Dubai is spectacle.
I read and read (and, interestingly, it is Debord’s use of abstractions that make Society of the Spectacle a kind of timeless text, versus say Berger’s Ways of Seeing, which is so swept up in the technology of its own contemporaneity that it reads as an outdated text) and am actively aware of my own hunger for some kind of solution.
Thus it is here that the specialized science of domination must in turn specialize: it fragments itself into sociology, psychotechnics, cybernetics, semiology, etc., watching over the self-regulation of every level of the process.---43Whereas in the primitive phase of capitalist accumulation, “political economy sees in the proletarian only the worker” who must receive the minimum indispensable for the conservation of his labor power, without ever seeing him “in his leisure and humanity,” these ideas of the ruling class are reversed as soon as the production of commodities reaches a level of abundance which requires a surplus of collaboration from the worker.
I understand the ultimately facile 'point', but it makes little impact.Its historical observations are supposedly its most valuable, but they remain largely unsubstantiated, lacking academic practice.
If it was published today one could imagine it being condemned to a fate of neglect on the archives of a Marxist Wordpress blog.
Though of course it is unfair to judge the work with the prejudices of time, and it remains an interesting source for a Marxist critique of Leninism from just before the Prague Spring and the subsequent Warsaw-Pact invasion.
Debord's awkward poetry might appeal to insecure amateur intellectuals of the Marxist persuasion, who prefer the sentiments to the 'science' of Marx's work.

It's quite short (at only 150 or so pages) but it ain't snappy - Debord manages to excoriate ideology, alienation, much of the Old Left, almost all of the New Left and provide us with a circuitous and at times dense analysis of the emerging consumer society of the late 20th century. I keep coming back to it, and I keep finding turns of phrase and pieces of an argument that make me revisit and revise my political sense of the world around me. A deserved classic.
"Society of the Spectacle" is a philosophical work that describes the working of the "spectacle" as a product of modern consumerism that exists in social interaction through means of pseudo -representation (if that doesn't mean anything to you, dont worry it didn't to me either at first).
The work takes the implications of this phenomena and relates them to: the commodification of time, the isolation of the individual, the banalization of space, and the effect of modern economic production on the cultural domination of the proletariat.

Even for a theoretical text written by an extreme leftist, in the late sixties, in Paris, this is a convoluted read.
There is a very aphoristic, almost Nietzschean style to the prose, and Debord's tone seems a little pedantic at times, which strikes me as odd.
It's not terribly far-fetched to say that citizens of a late-capitalist, commodity driven culture are victims of debased social communication.
Yet, at the same time, I would imagine it to be pretty difficult to read this text without waking up a little, or at least developing a more keen sense of awareness about modern culture and the relationship that the individual shares with it.
Buku ini menyentuh secara falsafah tentang budaya dan sejarah, secara khusunya, apa yang berlaku sekitar tahun 1967-1968 (vietnam war dan kempen baginya, dan surge of social movement di negara-negara dunia ketiga)Disentuh sedikit tentang konsumerisma, kritik atas marx & marxisme, russian version of marxism dan paling banyak, critique of capitalism.Untuk bacaan lanjut dari buku ini :- Comments on the Society of the Spectacle (Guy Deobord juga, 20 tahun selepas buku ini)- Dialectic of Enlightenment (Adorno & Horkheimer)
This book describes the problem : defined as The Spectacle. But how many of us dare to challenge the hegemony of the image obsessed society we have created? Debord wrote this tract in the sixties before the consumer society really took off. It was a prophetic warning. Ask yourself this : aren't we all guilty of creating this monster? And how are we going to stop it? The truth is in this book. Read it and weep.
Amazing. Read this for research purposes while writing thesis "Perception and the spaces between art". I don't want to ruin this by reviewing it in a highly analytical manner, so I'll just say that it applies as much now as when it was written. A great text about the repackaging of culture and the coersion of visual freedom.
Debord's cogent and illuminating text employs Marxist idealism to expose a plane of unreality. By realizing the void between subject and spectacle, we find a new affirmation of Nietzsche: that a will to (or realization of) nothingness is better than no will at all.
Está especialmente bien la parte en la que se molesta en intentar explicar qué está diciendo.
Absolute trash. Perverter of young minds.
Antes de empezar aclaro que todo lo siguiente está sujeto a un "si mal no entendí" porque tranquilamente puedo haber malinterpretado lo que leí.Entiendo por qué Debord describía a la sociedad del siglo XX como una sometida al espectáculo como él lo define, y creo que si viviera ahora consideraría su pronóstico acertado (pienso en el predominio de las apariencias en las redes sociales; en todas las variedades de ocio que ofrece Internet y en los mundos personalizados en los que te permite aislarte, como motores de alienación de un espectáculo de múltiples facetas como el que describe; en el aumento progresivo del tiempo para el ocio como una no-liberación porque el ocio que nos ofrece este "mundo espectacular" muchas veces no se siente como "actividad" real; y puedo ver en la uniformización de un mainstream cultural y global que va desplazando otras cosmovisiones, algo de lo que él dice de que la imagen que no nos ofrece un espejo de la realidad completa sino solo la imagen de un ¿modo de vida?
I think that the spectacle is still growing in its reification of social life, if perhaps a tad more interactive in the age of the web--or at least I hope that's the case.I've had Zone Books big compendium of Situationist writing for some time and was going to settle in to read that to get a bigger picture of the group's thinking as a whole, so I thought I'd refresh my memory of Society beforehand--as I had read it back in the late 1980s when I was first led to the SI through Malcolm MacLaren, Jamie Reed, and the Sex Pistols.
The concept of the “Spectacle” is an attempt to move revolutionary theory into a post-industrial territory, by analyzing the shift from substance to image under late-twentieth-century conditions: “The present phase of total occupation of social life by the accumulated results of the economy leads to a generalized sliding of having into appearing, from which all actual ‘having’ must draw its immediate prestige and ultimate function.” This probably seems pretty obvious, today, but relatively few radical critiques have expressed it so clearly, even if angry people everywhere can feel it in their bones.
It’s interesting that I find this text somewhat detached from time, both old and new at one time, because I think the most valuable chapter here is probably the one on “Time and History,” in which Debord attempts to explore the ways in which power affects our understanding of time itself.
The problem is that this is a primary source for those events, it is the philosophy and theory of Situationalism (though Debord didn't care for that term).
I find the ideas fascinating, but like many works of philosophy it is written densely, and at times incomprehensibly as little to nothing is defined or adequately explained.
At the same time, however, the language and theory is largely built from Marx and Hegel, neither of whom I have much exposure to, which complicated it.
But for an author whose purpose was not just to make theory, but to actually overturn 'the spectacle', perhaps he should have made his ideas more comprehensible for the lay person.
Guy DeBord was a front-runner for the Situationalists in Paris.
They lead/inspired the Paris Commune uprising of 1968.
This book serves as Guy DeBord's manifesto.
It is definitely recommended to see the film he made by the same title, which has spell-binding footage of uprisings in multiple countries, lots of topless women and dictators of the world...
stuff that entices for sure.
(I do not own a TV, but this stuff isn't on TV anyhow.)I have re-read much of this book multiple times.
I recommend it highly to anyone thinking creatively or having a critique of our overwhelming culture and how to engage with it.
Yaklaşık on sekiz yıl önce almıştım bu kitabı, tam olarak bitirmek bugüne düştü. Daha o zamanlar bölük pörçük okumuşluğumuzla bile tartışırdık bir, iki arkadaş Debord ve sitüasyonistleri, gençlik işte, bildiğiniz gibi... Bu kadar önemli, kült mertebesinde bir kitaba review yazmak da neyin nesi, veyahut onu puanlamak, diyor olmama rağmen kendi kendime iki satır bir şey yazmak istedim yine de. ilk yetmiş, yüz sayfasını okumuş olmak bile o kadar çok açmıştı ki dimağımı, siyasi perspektifimi a'dan z'ye etkiledi diyebilirim "gösteri toplumu" gençliğim boyunca... Ülkemizde hemen hiç okunmuyor olması çok üzücü bu metnin. Çok fazla söze hacet yok, favorite of favorites!
To be or not to be artık to appear like or not to appear like
Probably the definitive summation of Situationist theory. Debord can get kind of caught up in his own terminology systems (probably the translation doesn't help here) and I definitely don't know enough Marx/Hegel/Russian History to follow everything, but definitely a pretty worthwhile and interesting take on 20th century culture and politics, even so.
Debord elaborates on the organic unity of the spectacle, just as Marx does with capital. The spectacle is not simply advertisements, 24-hour news cycles, celebrities, and reality television, but is rather a social relation that constructs our spatio-temporal reality around its own biases for time-disciplined labor and strip mall architecture.
Brilliant book ; hard to read initially because of its "poetic" nature and the ambiguity that entails. But keep at it, and there plenty of insights to mull over. A classic. Read "The Revolution of Everyday Life" as well.
yeah a lot of this book is unnecessary/unconvincing but I think he's correct in identifying 'the spectacle' as a relevant/necessary object for theoretical study. I thought this was great
4.5-5/10. Very disjointed.
In this book I found a spectacular (ironic pun intended), left communist (anti-authoritarian) work.The spectacle, Guy Debord says, is the social relation between people that is mediated by images (news, propaganda, advertising, entertainment), it is both the result and the project of the present mode of production, it is the model of the predominant way of life, it is the affirmation of the choices that have already been made in the sphere of production and consumption, it is the autonomous movement of commodities.
In other words, the spectacle is capital accumulated to the point that it becomes spectacular images.
Korifej situacionističke internacionale, Gi Debor je sebe smatrao filmskim stvaraocem, a na projekcijama svojih filmova publiku je znao da posipa brašnom (naši političari nas polivaju nekim drugim materijalom već decenijama pa ih smatramo normalnim), stekavši tako status ekscentrične ličnosti nije drugačije živeo, družio se sa beskućnicima, uličarima, i bio i ostao pravi marginalac.
Njegove vakele ne ostaju samo na kapitalističkom uređenju, već proširuje i na sovjetski birokratizam, diktaturu i preuzimanje buržoaske organizacije.Sam pojam spektakla se ovde upotrebljava u negativnom smislu, povezuje ga sa postvarenjem i komodifikacijom, kumulativno stvarajući jedan veliki privid i falsifikat ljudskih života.
But it is water and it is there and while because by virtue of our immersion it’s so natural for us to never learn of its existence, the fact is it might not be so healthy for us as primarily land-dwelling creatures to be swimming all the time.But Debord's 213 is wrong at present, for we have a name for this now, neoliberalism (among other things), and we are seeing a resurgence in bona fide ideologies—as he would call them because they have formulable historical agendas—in, just for example, accelerationism left and right.71  Whatever lays claim to permanence in the spectacle is founded on change, and must change as that foundation changes.
There are specific tracts (including, but well beyond the familiar Das Capital and Hegel's Phenomonology of Spirit) referred to that I just don't know and will likely never read or research.
He urges a systemic revolution, but I think his ideals are now outdated and workers’ counsels just aren’t going to fly (if they ever were) as a means of revolution cum governance.I will say that the later chapters on the co-opting of history, culture, and even time as part of the spectacle were interesting…although perhaps a bit over my head.
