https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1097446.The_Case_of_the_Baited_Hook
To make a long story short, he ended up receiving a man and a woman in the middle of the night in his office.
While thanks to his foresight he managed to learn the identity of the man the woman was wearing a mask and was wrapped in a cloak making her a complete mystery.
He was wrong as he remained in the complete darkness regarding to who his client is - makes it hard to defend the girl, does not it?This is one of the very rare stories where Mason was able to untangle the mystery before it got to the courtroom.
They guy gives Perry a name that the lawyer immediately recognizes is phony and after Mason agrees to come in, he calls the Drake Detective Agency and gets them on the job.
Drake's people are so efficient that by the time Perry gets to his office, he knows that the mysterious caller is actually an architect named Robert Peltham.Peltham is accompanied by a mysterious young woman who is wearing a mask and who refuses to speak, making it impossible for Mason to identify her.
Still, it's a lot of fun and will appeal to anyone who enjoys this series.
Hell, Yeah! Perry Mason rules! :)
My first Perry Mason experience.Loved the writing style and the way the tale unfolds throughout the story instead of the usual makes-sense towards the end.Cropping of new problems in the last but chapter makes you read until the last line.
An interesting & enjoyable Perry Mason mystery. The novel is different from other books in the series due to non existence of courtroom drama. ABOUT AVERAGE.
I really liked this one. Even if Gardner went about it in a very elaborate and mysterious way, the case looked pretty logical and methodical to me. It made sense and it kept me engrossed.
Perry Mason is dragged from bed one rainy night after midnight to meet a mysterious man (who's given him a fake name) and a woman who refuses to speak and wears a mask to disguise herself.
The man wants Perry to represent the woman but refuses to say what the case involves, saying the headlines in tomorrow's newspapers will tell him.
The man produces a $10,000 bill (they have Woodrow Wilson on them, in case anyone offers you one) and cuts it in two.
The best fighters don’t worry about what the other man may do." This is book #16 of the 86 Perry Mason mysteries.
This small matter evolves into a clandestine meeting on a stormy night with a masked woman and half a ten thousand-dollar bill, the other half to be paid on completion of a job which may not even be required, and the murder of Albert Tidings, keeper of Byrl Gailord’s trust funds.
The mystery gains complexity as alibis are found to be false, and the time of the murder cannot be determined.One thing that I specifically enjoyed about this book was the complex mystery that pulled you along and made this worth reading.
I am a huge fan of the TV show that is based on these books, and I thought that the main characters were not as happy as they were in the show.
This one starts off with Perry receiving a call in the middle of the night when he's at home, and he heads out into the rain to meet a potential client at his office.
When a murder occurs and the other clients feel threatened, Perry Mason gets dragged into a nasty situation which could ruin his career.The book is particularly interesting because of all the cloak and dagger stuff.
This is my first thought whenever I read a Perry Mason mystery.Called to his office on a rainy night at midnight, Mason meets a man with an assumed name and a woman who is totally disguised from head to foot and wearing a mask.
The man seeks Mason's services for the woman for something that will break in the newspapers in the next few days.
He receives half of a $10,000 and is to help the woman when she presents the other half.This is an unusual tale in that Mason finds himself running about trying to decide who was the masked woman.
For a change, Perry is as puzzled as anyone else.Perry Mason series - One rainy night Robert Peltham calls Perry Mason and asks to meet him at once.
With him is a masked women whom Peltham wants Mason to represent.
Peltham cuts a $10,000 bill in half, gives one half to Mason and the other half to the masked woman.
When Albert Tidings is found murdered, Mason knows his client will be indicted.
Adelle Hastings whose charities Tidings administered?
Or is it Byrl Gailord, whose trust fund Tidings managed.
And why must Mason begin his investigation without knowing who retained him?
Like many of Gardner's Perry Mason novels, Baited Hook begins with an unusual introduction to a client.
In fact, the client is so mysterious that she is covered up and wearing a mask and doesn't even speak to Mason.
And to top it off, although a large sum of money is dangled, Mason isn't told what the case is about or what he's expected to do.
The case from there gets even more convoluted with Mason getting involved in a questionable stock trade, stumbling on corpses, and stands accused of being a pursesnatcher.Gardner's Perry Mason stories are mysteries centered around a lawyer not a detective.
This is Sergeant Halcomb's last case, so I thought he'd get fired in it. Sadly, he gets transfered away from Homicide off-screen between this book and the next one. The case was pretty interesting, though I'm skeptical that the set-up made sense considering Mason's character. In short, someone offers Mason to take a case without knowing the client, and offers him 12,000$ to do it. Mason takes the case, though in many previous books he's made a point of saying the money isn't a big deal to him.
Quite different from the earlier books in this series, including the absence of a courtroom ending (as other readers have pointed out).
But there is enough legalistic language throughout the story to substitute for what usually occurs in the courtroom, centering around the concept of "agency."The plot is ingenious, though a bit complicated.
I suppose this was an accurate depiction of life in the 1940's, though I was not alive then.I can't get to five stars because I found the plot a bit too complicated, but this was fun to read.
Quite amazing novel, keeps you guess... not just who's the murderer, but also who's Mason's client. :DSeriously. Its great fun to read book. And I think one can guess who the client is, she almost gives it away when they meet first time face to face without mask. And it's also possible to weave the clues together to guess the murderer, even though its a bit hard to consider.Only downside, no courtroom drama. Rest is fun, fast reading.
A quintessential Perry Mason mystery that breaks from the courtroom to provide unexpected twists from a cavalcade of characters of escalating stakes that plateau in an arrest warrant being issued for the lawyer himself.
Interesting mystery. Full review at classicmystery.blog
All right, at this point, I think you can put me down as a total Della Street fangirl. What can I say, that was the last thing I expected when I started off on this crazy series.As she so very succinctly puts it, after a mysteriously shrouded female with a bizarre story and half a ten thousand dollar bill (the other half left with Mason, of course) disappears into the night, "Ain't we got fun!"
The book is a typical whodunit and has all the characters present in any Mason book, Paul Drake, Della Street, Gertie, Hamilton Burger and Lt. Tragg. The book revolves about the fact that Mason is baited in the start of the book by a $10,000 retainer to represent an unknown client and as a result makes certain mistakes.More on http://nehasbookshelf.blogspot.com/20...
Perry is baited with a $10,000 fee to represent an unknown client. Contains an interesting theory of solving a mystery: look to the person trying to establish the alibi earliest in time. Also contains a good explanation of the "law of agency" which reflects Gardner's legal background...though maybe a bit detailed for the lay person. I love the courtroom drama of the TV series, so when Perry solves a case before it gets to court, I'm always a bit disappointed.
One of the best.Quite a turner. Very pacey. Things kept in the dark till the end. And a nice twist to round it up
With Perry Mason books, you are going to expect a certain amount of repetition: how Paul Drakes drapes himself over the chair in Perry's office, the big denouement in the courtroom at the end, the female client who "could" have done it, but didn't. This one didn't grab at me, but that's not my goal. Just to read through them all, and now I'm into the 1940's.
Was very impressed with Erle Stanley Gardner's writing style.This is the 1st book where I could correctly guess the murder post 50% of the book itself. Absolutely entertaining. Suspense thriller of all together different flavor. Doesn't feel it was 1st published 76 years ago and very much entertaining till date.A quick, entertaining must read suspense thriller.
Have you gone through murder-enquiry books? Unlike Aghatha , Perry Mason has a well-do-it-all mixture of solving the criminal case.. Who's the murderer ?? The tentative feeling was kept plush and rushing throughout the novel!
This is the first Perry Mason story I have read. A good mystery, but it revolves around social concepts that are pretty foreign to someone born after 1960. I also see now why the women's movement was such a big deal.
There was no court scene in this book. In the first chapter, Mason does something stupid and spends the rest of the book in a combination of helping differnt clinets while trying to get himself out of the jam that he let himself into. I might read it again in a few years. It is worth reading once.
OK story, but very old fashioned language.
Kind of silly premise, but still a good read.
"Ah! No courtroom drama this time."
Fun
