https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/539073.Upper_Fourth_at_Malory_Towers
Upper Fourth at Malory Towers picks up a couple of terms after the previous book when Darrell and her friends were in their third form.
There are also new girls of course, the meek and unattractive Honourable Clarissa Carter, who Gwendolen (rather like St Clares’ Alison in this respect) is keen to befriend, and (non-identical) twins Connie and Ruth, opposites of each other in more than one way.
Another good book.
Listened to in Audio format.
This year Darryl and her friends are studying for their School Certificate and Darryl becomes Head Girl.Darryl is concerned when Felicity makes friends with Alicia's cousin June.
Later June decides she wants to confess to get Alicia into trouble.
Darryl as Head Girl tries to dissuade June but Unfortunately Darryl's temper gets the better of her.
Darryl pushes June and gets the Headship taken off her.Gwendolyn worries that she will not be pass along with the others but what will she do?
I am really enjoying listening to this series again.
Adorei, gostei imenso de ver a evolução das personagens desde o primeiro livro até aqui, a autora fê-lo de uma forma brilhante.
Het begint een beetje repetitive te worden. Verder was er te veel focus op Gwendoline's POV, en wow zo veel fatshaming niet normaal
Blyton's protagonist, lively Darrell Rivers, takes a leadership role in her term in the Upper Fourth Form, which irritates the hapless Gwendoline, who is unrelentingly unpleasant as well as lazy and overweight (of course: that's the Blyton stereotype of a villain).
The book is full of stock characters (including twins who are opposite personalities and an Honorable who is shy and unassuming), typical Blyton adventures (including of course a midnight feast), and all kinds of problems for Darrell and Felicity, but somehow Blyton's moral compass manages to hold steady and things turn out for the best.
Twin stories are always interesting ones - they show how difficult it must be to be so alike and yet complete individuals at the same time.
The only factors I did not much appreciate were little things that took away detail from the story, such as that it was only mentioned partially that Zerelda had decided not to go back to the English school and that Ellen had been moved up a form after she was supposed to have done badly in the school exams as well.
Another fun year at Malory towers!
That pest June! She finally makes her appearance, trying to drag Felicity along. Darrell's first term with her younger sister is quite spoiled by the brazen first former. But there's exams looming, and Gwen will do anything to get out of them. Will Bill finally find a special friend? Will Alicia fail her exams because her heads gone woolly? Find out all this and more, when you read Upper Forth at Malory Towers!
Nostalgie pur! Als Kind liebte ich Dolly und ihr Leben auf Möwenfels. Ein Fund in einem Umzugskarton veranlasste mich dazu, noch einmal in Dollys Welt einzutauchen. Eine Lektüre die mir heute immer noch Spaß macht. Wobei ich mich heute frage, ob damals wirklich 16 Jährige Mitternachtsfeiern mit Kakau organisierten!? 😉 Nun ja, es ist ein Kinderbuch und ausschweifende Partys würden halt nicht zu Dolly passen.
I think this could possibly be my favorite out of all of the Malory Towers books. The author did not make you suspect that Daphne was the one stealing, yet I still find myself shocked when I re-read it.
this book is really adventures and everyone must read it afterall enid was such a great writer i wanna bcome like her
I'm sure I say this with each one in the series I reread (again), but I'll always adore the Malory books.
The girls we've known from the beginning are no different, though there are the new addition of Clarissa and the twins, Connie and Ruth.
Also new to the school is Felicity, Darrell's younger sister, who we finally see more of than just a mention or quick glimpse in the first chapter.
So another great addition to the series and, as I start drawing to a close in the next two books (well, with Darrell's time, at least), I'll probably start getting more sentimental about them haha.
dear old Darrell Rivers becomes the head girl of the Upper Fourth but she may or may not have lost it due to her temper issues...And Felicity joins her this time at Malory Towers but to Darrell's dismay, so does June, a cousin of Alicia's, even wicked and naughtier than her!We have these new twins who have quite the communication issues...Gwen gets a new friend Clarissa, but can Gwendoline Mary ever keep a friend?The best part of the book was a midnight feast the Upper fourth sneak out to have!
I'm quite happy That I made it so far with this series , I'm 2 short from finishing the series !
Unfortunately I didn't enjoy this as much as I had with the previous books, there weren't any interesting plot to me !
Where was zerelda from book 3 ?
I was puzzled on why she didn't appear in this one and why no reason for her absence was given.Either this one's standereds weren't up to the previous books or I'm getting burned out by the series and need Some time out .I don't think I'll be reading the 5th book until I finish Renegades by Marrissa Meyer this week end,
Darrell está muy emocionada ya que este año Felicity también va a asistir a Torres de Malory. Darrell ya esta en cuarto curso y eso quiere decir que deberá sacarse el diploma escolar para poder pasar de curso. Pero lo que Darrell no se imagina es que hay montones y montones de sorpresas y desilusiones este curso y, además de esto, tres niñas nuevas.
Klo dipikir aq itu mirip Darrell hehehe dibagian temperamental-nya lhoo...karena aq yg baca jg jadi ikutan gemes sama June! Hhh...klo aq ya, udh tak gampar hahaha Sayang, aq rada missing soal Bill, Mavis dan siapa lg itu...soalnya dr kelas dua langsung kelas opat, euy!
Reliving childhoodGood read at any stage of life. At 32, i enjoyed every bit of it. Exemplary writing. Such minute facets and relatable instances till date. Wonderful for young readers.
I liked it. Well, the characters were older than me. A book that you can enjoy without getting a headache. Because the plot ain't hard to decipher. In overall I LIKED IT ALOT.
Smashing! I do so enjoy reading these books, even if some of the attitudes would not be now seen as acceptable. Marvellous tales though. A window to the near past, if a small window
Upper Fourth at Malory towers was quite well written but toward the end the story got a little unrealistic.
irrita tanto! Aquela Benedita Maria só mente!....
Its a really good book to the Malory towers collection.
Me ha gustado, con mensajes de valores importantes kisses
My favorite childhood read. It makes me want to go to school there.
REMARKABLE
Revisiting the books of my youth out of a feeling of nostalgia! I loved Enid Blyton when I was younger and can't wait to re-read these with my own children.
^^Darrell jadi ketua kelas, dan langsung dicopot dari jabatannya sebelum pertengahan semester.
*kayak apa ya mata yg menyala??*Gwen sukses membuat dirinya dibawa pulang pada pertengahan semester, untuk kemudian balik 1 hari sebelum ujian dimulai.
Duh, ni anak masih aja belum belajar bagaimana caranya berteman.Alicia sakit campak, dan baru tahu dia bagaimana rasanya harus berpikir dengan otak yang macet...ERROR SPOTTEDGa tau nih, salah cetak atau salah terjemahannya.
Otaknya juga mulai bisa bekerja."Minggu ini kau tak boleh dikunjungi, Alicia," kata jururawat yang menjaganya.
Ia sedih karena merasa pasti banyak mata ujian yang dikerjakannya dengan tak keruan.
Apa Alicia karena tertidur lalu dibawa ke san.
Gwendoline langsung mendekati Clarissa dan menjadikannya sahabat dan dia mencontoh kelemahan Clarissa, berpura-pura lemah jantung agar bisa tidak mengikuti olahraga dan ujian.Semester ini Darrel yang menjadi ketua kelas, Felicity sangat bangga padanya.Selalu ada kata bijak dari Nona Grayling:Suatu hari kau akan meninggalkan sekolah ini dan terjun ke kehidupan sebagai seorang wanita muda.
Kali ini Darrel tidak bisa mengontrol amarahnya menghadapi June, siasat Gwendoline agar bisa lepas dari ujian, siasat Connie agar dia bisa terus bersama Ruth.Semua itu menjadi tantangan Darrell di kelas empat ini.3 sayap untuk pesta tengah malam.
Tapi ada murid baru dengan pribadi unik yang masuk ke kelas empat, yaitu Clarissa yang baru sembuh dari sakit, dan si kembar Ruth dan Connie.Masalah Darrell meliputi kesibukannya menjadi ketua kelas, membimbing adiknya di sekolah, dan menghadapi ujian.
Tapi ia masih mempunyai Sally, sahabatnya, dan teman-teman yang mendukungnya.Walaupun ada banyak masalah, anak-anak kelas empat ini juga bisa bersenang-senang.
Alicia berubah menjadi pribadi yang lebih baik walaupun ia masih senang membuat lelucon.
Sepertinya memang benar kalau Malory Towers bisa membuat anak-anak yang bersekolah di sana menjadi lebih baik.Tahun-tahun ujian di kelas empat ini memang berat, tapi Hani masih akan menunggu cerita mereka selanjutnya di tahun berikutnya!
Menarik juga, Darrel memiliki motivasi untuk berkontribusi positif bagi sekolahnya sehingga ia berusaha sekuat tenaga bisa bermain di regu sekolah.
di Kelas empat ini, Darrel serta kawan-kawan akan mengikuti ujian sekolah.
Alicia tidak menunjukkan rasa empati kepada teman-temannya bahwa tidak semua orang dianugerahi akal sepintar dirinya.
Setelah pengalaman ini, Alicia lebih mampu berempati kepada teman-temannya yang memang tidak secerdas dirinya.
Ada juga cerita tentang Gwendoline Marry yang tidak berubah.
Ia malah berbohong sakit lemah jantung sehingga ibunya khawatir dan tidak mengizinkan Gwen untuk mengikuti ujian sekolah.
Mengingatkan juga kepada saya yang masih suka sombong dan tidak tahu diri, bahwa kita tidak pernah bisa untuk lari dari masalah.
