https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/161788.If_I_Ran_the_Circus
A very layered story, in true Seussian style. Rhymes throughout build-up the excellence of this circus and all the acts found therein. From balancing species to those who leap through the air, Dr. Seuss knows how to captivate the reader. Even though the story was longer and more detailed than he is used to reading, Neo was enthralled with all the varied bits. He did not recognise many of the acts from our recent trip to the circus, but he loved the idea of seeing them in the future.
A child's imagination is way better than adults. If only we could be as creative just like them, probably we could have a fun and colorful life. This children's story book is really entertaining to read. I wonder what's going on Sneelock's mind while Marcus was telling what could be in his Circus McGurkus if ever it materialize.
★★★★★★★★★★[10/10]Come meet Drum tummied Snumm, Fluff muffled Truffle, Zoom-a-zoop Troupe, Bloop blowing Bolster only at Circus McGurkus!!
After pleading a lot (and by a lot I mean a week) with my wife to read this book I finally got the fruits.If I ran the circus is a story of boy who dreams up of establishing a circus. And a good one for the record.There's this one nonchalant character that I don't wish to name that was the RDJ of his times.He could do it all. No tricks in the circus pamphlet was missing from his CV. Verdict : Thou shalt read this, people.
I 've been re-reading Dr. Seuss's books lately, with my nine year old brother and we both have a blast with those amazingly written, classic stories.There are many good reasons to consider Dr. Seuss's books as classic in children literature.
We are following the very interesting thoughts of Morris McGurk and his dreams for his own circus, when he spots an empty lot, behind Mr. Sneelock's little shop.The Circus McGurkus, is were the magic happens.
Inside a little boy's mind, the reader can travel in the most intricate scenes.
I loved it and so did my brother.
My husband was asking me since ages to read this book to him.
I used to stop in between just to hear him laugh.
Then I'll make comments on the illustrations, so he laughs more at them.
I'll go on reading, with such interest he'll listen to me, making me think it's the best thing that ever can happen to somebody.
And so it is.There is nothing as wonderful as your husband giving you a book, sitting patiently and listening and responding to your words.I'm grateful to Dr. Seuss that his poems are useful in our expressing love to each other.
Wordplay to die for.
Like And to Think that I Saw It on Mulberry Street or If I Ran the Zoo, this is one of Seuss's essentially non-narrative paeans to the creative imagination, as out protagonist imagines the increasingly fantastical acts he wold have in the circus, should he get to run one.
Most amusing, perhaps, is his ongoing reliance on Mr Sneelock to do all the heavy lifting and figure things out, as his mind runs rampant coming up with fanciful acts.
As usual, the pages are marvels of busy but clear design, as Seuss shows us amazing and bizarre circus act after amazing and bizarre circus act.
Young Morris McGurk fantasizes about the hypothetical circus that could be put up in the empty property behind Sneelock’s store.
From hearing the “Drum-Tummied Snumm” hum to seeing the “Hoodwink who winks in his wink-hood”, Morris McGurk fills a whole book with creative ideas of acts for his circus.
They act as the visuals and represent the characters behind the silly names of animals and creatures that take place in the story.
I read this story twice in one sitting; once silently to myself and the second time out loud.
Reading it with emphasis makes the story more exciting and helps understanding the strange names of the characters easier.
For building such a creative story, I felt like the rhyming was way too much, the usage of make believe words were overused then his other books and I got confused and lost from the story.
Finally at the end it was all just a day dream and the empty lot is still empty.The illustrations were marvelous depicting this epic circus and I was very disappointed on how the overuse of make believe words can distract and lose the intention of this book.
Basic Plot: Morris McGurk contemplates turning Mr. Sneelock into the star of a circus.The Circus McGurkus would truly be a thing of wonder if he managed the circus he envisions, and Mr. Sneelock must be truly deserving of a young boy's adulation, considering what the boy seems to think Sneelock is capable of.This reminded me a lot of being very young and making "plans" to create wild and crazy productions that everyone would come see.
It's not entirely clear that the narrator isn't maybe making fun of the guy, and that would make the story seem mean instead, which is not cool.Otherwise, though, there are wacky Seussical critters doing weird and wonderful things.
Cute little Dr. Seuss book, as are pretty much all books by this beloved author.
Picture Book FavoritesI love most everything Dr. Seuss writes, but everyone should read this book just for the character of Mr. Sneelock.10/17
LOVED ITLOOOOOOOVEEED IT

Personal Response:	I read the book “If I Ran the Circus” by Dr. Seuss to my little sister and she really thought it was funny and she told me that it rhymed.
Plot:	This book started off with a boy named Morris McGurk who wanted a circus right behind the old man Sneelock store.
He also then had to come up with all the people and things he would do.
Then he had all of his circus people come.
Another thing that i thought was different about this book was that it was an actual human.
It's certainly your trademark Dr. Seuss book with lots of interesting, fantastical creatures.
Young Morris McGurk is planning to open a circus in the vacant lot behind Sneelock's Store.
In his Circus McGurkus he will feature such creatures as a Drum-Tummied Snumm who uses his tummy for a drum; a Wily Walloo who can throw his tail as a lassoo; a Juggling Jott who juggles question marks, commas, and also one dot; and many, many more.
Throughout it all, Mr. Sneelock is helping out, sometimes risking life and limb - although young Morris McGurk is sure he won't mind.
This book was purchased for the fourth grade to read prior to an event that was circus-themed. Surprisingly, I had never read this Seuss book before.I noted the first-person narrator telling of a dream (future tense) of the circus he would construct behind his friend's business. The book describes all the acts that the circus would have.Most impressively, this children's book used the words pell-mell and dingus. That doesn't happen much these days!Typical zany Seuss!
It's been quite a while since I first opened a Dr. Seuss book. It's always a joyous pleasure to sit back and unravel the great simplistic beauty that is a Dr. Seuss book, whether as a child or adult. His words are forever immortal and shall live longer than time itself.As for this book, this is the first time I read "If I Ran the Circus". Every name and description in the book is original and fun, and the rhyme is unforgettable.
Not one of his best books and nowhere near as good as if I ran the Zoo. The rhyming felt muddled and I found myself falling over some of the lines as they just weren't as smooth as usual. The feeling of the circus was there, all those bright colours and amazing stuff going on and the "Roll up! Roll up!" style calls in the rhymes.Did feel a bit sorry for poor Mr Sneelock at times though, poor overworked fella.
Sneelock later snapped and murdered an entire village of carnies.
Great book
Morris McGurk suffers from delusions of grandeur.
It's a little old for Nora, but I loved it.
'If I Ran the Circus' is much better than the similar 'If I Ran the Zoo'.
Young Morris McGurk's fantasies are more outlandish than Gerald McGrew's were in the earlier book.
But even better, the more and more McGurk's fantasies work, the more they star old Mr. Sneelock, the owner of a shop nearby, who McGurk considers a good friend.
We watch Mr. Sneelock perform the most outrageous stunts with a deadpan expression.
McGurk sees no harm in putting his friend into the most terrible danger.
But the expression on Mr. Sneelock's face on the very last page is priceless, and says it all.
Such a great bookMy 9 year old asks me to read this book to him every single night. He loves the rhythm of it. He is generally out like a light by the time the sideshows are finished. And I love reading it to him. It's SO fun to read. I would really recommend this. And I'll be honest... I'm pretty sure my husband enjoys me reading it, too. ;)
This Dr. Seus book follows Morris who plans to open a circus behind Sneelock's Store with no permission. He plans out the whole circus and even includes Mr. Sneelock in some acts. At the end of the book he decides that its a perfect plan and Mr. Sneelock won't mind. This book was colorful and interesting. It was so creative that would easily keep the attention of children.
The Circus McGurkus is the world’s greatest show and Morris McGurk is certain that the vacant lot behind Sneelock’s Store would be the perfect spot to set up the circus. And that’s just what he intends to do!The rhyming text, replete with a variety of Seussian-isms and the good Doctor’s trademark delightful silliness is sure to delight readers both young and old. Highly recommended.
I read this book for class (picture book category) and I thought it was fun. I love reading dr. Seuss because of the rhyming in his books and the imagination. It is a little person dreaming about starting a circus and all the things he would do.
Rhyme filled story with tongue twisters that describe all the action under the big top of the Circus McGurkus.
I read this for my son's reading time. Such a fun read with all of the rhyming.
