https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/28769.Tales_of_Pirx_the_Pilot
Reading Lem makes me happy.
"Tales of Pirx The Pilot" was certainly one of them and it was with some fondness that I picked up another copy while looking for another specific book.
This book is a solid "4.0".These stories of Pirx are an odd amalgamation of interesting science and young/juvenile action-adventure, but done in a very readable and convincing way.
Despite the space background these stories are ultimately about the character and his development in each of the tales.Although I probably won't buy any further copies, this slim volume has rekindled my appreciation for the works of Mr. Lem.
This is a collection of stories, which are very fun to read. Prix always perseveres, although seemingly incapable of doing so. The story about Terminus stuck with me the most; possibly, because I found it to be the saddest of them all.
Stanislaw Lem's science fiction tends to be dense and philosophical/political. This book was different, in that the adventures of Pirx, an average sap who stumbles into these situations, are based on hard science and yet retain that philosophic air. I enjoyed this book very much-- must read it again!
Lem is the master.
First off these loosely connected stories, that span over the progression of Pirx's noteworthy career as a space pilot, are meditations on the smallness of the individual's contribution to the overall adventure of human history.
It is this sort of thinking beyond his training that makes Pirx a hero.
He excels, in this novel, when describing the basic training of Pirx the Pilot.
The sensory deprivation tank section is a few pages of sheer altered consciousness/body horror.
It was a visceral and awesome description of travelling - first into and then beyond the body.
Pro mě velké překvapení.
Knihu jsem zahlédl v knihovně, sehnal si ji a očekával nějakou klasiku 70.
let.
Jenže Příběhy pilota Pirxe jsou psány lehkou rukou, dobře se čtou, neberou se tak strašně vážně (někdy jsou až vtipné) a zároveň se soustředí i na temnější témata.
Navíc, i když je kniha původně z roku 1973 a některá vesmírná témata (technika, objevy...) už jsou překonaná, velká většina jich zůstává aktuální.
Člověk si tak může vyloženě užívat skvělé popisy krajin Měsíce nebo Marsu, "nudy a rutiny" vesmírných patrol nebo mnoho let používané raketové techniky.
Jako by byl autor přímo u toho.
My only complaint is that a couple of the stories tend towards the formulaic: Pirx encounters some strange, almost supernatural phenomenon, whereby uses his highly developed imagination and reasoning skills to approach the problem in a novel way to come to some happy conclusion.
That being said, I believe Lem captures human emotion on these new frontiers effortlessly, from "the dip" to the boundless horizon of space.I did have one complaint specific to the way in which one story, the final one, was completed.
Šo grāmatu līdz šim biju lasījis tikai krievu valodā, jo latviski, kā jau lielākā daļa no Lema grāmatām, tās nebija atrodamas pat komisijas grāmatu plauktā.Pilots Pirkss ir parasts cilvēks – vidējais, viņš mācībās ne ar ko īpašu nav izcēlies, nav uzrādījis neticamus rezultātus, nav arī pārāk par sevi pārliecināts, un ar meitenēm viņam ar neveicas.
Šajā stāstu krājumā ir ietverti stāsti, kas parāda kā Pirkss no zaļknābja kursanta izauga par īstu kosmosa iekarotāju.
Jā, autors nav pamanījies paredzēt internetu, bet viņam ir visnotaļ laba ideja par stimulatoriem, kosmosa dzinējiem un citu planētu kolonizēšanu.Var teikt, ka šis stāstu krājums ir par to, kā kļūt par īstu cilvēku.
Pirx is not the best I have read by Lem, but, for me, these simple tales are very satisfying.
While never achieving the almost elemental status of Conrad's captains who reveal their metal when the storm is raging, Prix muddles his way through and his instincts are good.Lem keeps the tales simple but he knows how to find small seams of gold.
Lem just clicks for me and did the very first time I read him.
Most of all, Lem never loses sight of the human being(s) at the heart of all good stories.
Zbiór opowiadań o „Pilocie Pirxie” w niezwykły sposób ukazuje pewne zagrożenia, które mogą w przyszłości wystąpić podczas podróży międzygwiezdnych.
Dla przykładu opowiadanie „Test” przedstawia różnice pomiędzy byciem doskonałym w teorii a odpornością na stres, „Patrol” skupia się na błędach w technologii, które w niespodziewany sposób mogą doprowadzić do ludzkiej śmierci.
Podczas powtórnego czytania (gdyż ten rok poświęcam przypomnieniu sobie całej twórczości Lema), moją uwagę zwróciło „Opowiadanie Pirxa”, świetnie obrazujące sytuację, jak czasem absurdalny zbieg okoliczności może spowodować to, że stracimy możliwość kontaktu z obcą cywilizacją na miliony lat, oraz „Rozprawa” jako opowieść ukazująca walkę rozgrywająca się pomiędzy sztuczną inteligencją a człowiekiem.
He’s a working-class pilot, going to what appears to be pilot trade-school, learning his craft, and taking his suitcase into his first commercial ship more like a factory worker with his lunch pail than a modern jet pilot.It’s practically steampunk now, although it wouldn’t have been thought so at the time.His matter-of-fact description of hiking on the moon makes me sad that only now are we opening up space travel to commercial activity.His robot semi-ghost story doesn’t even end.
At first glance, it looks like a pilot in a space suit, but after reading the first story, all the strange details start coming out: the flies, the book, and so on.
I got a collection of three different Lem novels at the Oxfam.
This was the first, the back had it listed as mysteries.
It really wasn't.
It was very technical 50s science fiction written in the late 70s.
Even in translation though the stories had a very clear and visual style.
I'm glad I stuck with it though as the last story, Terminus was generally very creepy and disturbing and I really liked it, and the imagery, though less than satisfied with the ending.
I will definitely try reading the other two novels though as they sound very different, though maybe not right away.
While I didn't enjoy these stories as much as the Ijon Tichy series (still two books to read in that series, one of which is sadly still untranslated) they're still worth reading.
I think I was a little put off by the dated-ness of the tech - so many people back then thought we'd rush into space on atomic-reactor-powered rockets, building advanced moonbases and such, but not have any way to communicate beyond a newspaper or radio, or have women involved in the stories at all (Heinlein was a notable exception there).
Still these stories were interesting and I'm sure I'll read the next volume later on.
Loses nothing in translation (is that good or bad?). Come to think of it I don't think Hemingway would lose anything in translation either. The message is definitely in the content and not the form. Worth it even if only for the story about the schizophrenic robot holding 'memories' of dead shipmates.
Easy readable. More about humans and characters then about technology or philosophy. Moon landscape descriptions were spectacular.
Poziom nierówny, ale za samo opowiadanie o Terminusie (o ile dobrze pamiętam) należą się oklaski.
He also wrote several fairly superficial short stories, some of which featured a bumbling everyman pilot named Pirx.
The stories themselves are trivial and poorly structured, some of them nerve-wrackingly so ("The Conditioned Reflex" is barely a story at all, containing 60 pages of random thoughts about what hanging out on the moon might be like and a 5 page whodunit).
Even here the treatment of the device is shallow, with Pirx characteristically concluding "Huh, that's not supposed to happen." However, with that story Lem touches convincingly on deeper themes of man's psychological relationship with his creations.
“Tales of Pirx the Pilot” takes a restrained approach to science fiction, one which could almost be described as “realism” except for the nuclear-powered rocket ships, moon bases, and robots.
"The Conditioned Reflex" is again perhaps the best example here, as Lem provides a perfect sketch of a somewhat dreamy, rather callow, slightly self-important, but mostly likable youth, who manages not to panic and correctly figure out that there’s a problem with the machine, even if he doesn’t know what that problem is.
Excelente muestra de buenos relatos de ciencia ficción de la llamada hardcore. El autor dedica mucho a la descripción y la introspección, posiblemente como forma de describir la soledad inherente al espacio. El humor y la aparente indolencia del protagonista es un contrapunto excelente a la seriedad de los planteamientos. Muy instructivo. Muy recomendable.
Lem was the first to show me that the main, and frequently the only, thing worth looking at in science fiction is not what alien worlds or new technologies await us - it's how we react to them, how we change in response, and what doesn't change ever, while we're still human.This collection of short tales exemplifies the best in Lem for me, so it's a big-time favourite with a score of rereads (I mean here all Pirx short stories, but not Fiasko - weird, slow, and not Pirx in any meaningful sense).So, to get it out of the way, the technicalities of the future world are not really believable; it's as if everything stood still and only the space technologies in their narrowest sense advanced.
In the five stories in Tales of Pirx the Pilot Pirx starts out as a cadet on a test-flight to the Moon, solves the mystery of the death of two scientists at an observatory on the far side of the Moon, solves another mystery which resulted in the disappearance of a patrol spaceship, witnesses an accident in space while travelling aboard a space liner, and manages to survive a flight in a spaceship that shouldn’t have been declared flight-worthy.
For example, in ‘The Conditioned Reflex’, Lem goes into a great amount of realistic detail about the lunar observatory, and the story reads like a piece of nearish-future hard sf.
Լեհ ֆանտաստ Ստանիսլավ Լեմի օրիգինալության մասին կխոսեմ իր փիլիսոփայական ողբերգությանը («Սոլարիս») նվ
Ein-Satz-ReviewDer technologische Fortschritt von Prix' Welt wird in den farbigen Geschichten ins In
Stanislaw Lem is a Polish science fiction writer who died in 2006.
His writing is set in a futuristic, space travel setting but really explores the inner world of his characters.
With Pirx, he explores in separate chapters that could more or less stand alone, phenomenon of lateral thinking and problem solving, sensory deprivation, the fatal mental errors we can make in stress situations, our urges to avoid anything associated with death and dying (Albatross), and the ways we (projected in this case upon a robot, Terminus) we carry around bits and snatches of significant dialogues.
I don't know if there is a category of psychological fiction but Lem's work might fit here.
One also feels at times that he writes with his tongue firmly planted in his cheek.
This was an interesting book.
It wasn't an adventure-filled SF book with spaceships zooming hither and yon, but was rather more thoughty than I was expecting.
Several of the stories ended rather abruptly, without a real resolution.The writing itself was very interesting.
It had a feel to it that wasn't like anything I'm used to.
Would I have noticed a difference if I didn't know Lem wasn't from the US?
I don't know, but it definitely had an unusual feel to it.This book is definitely worth reading, but don't expect lots of aliens and lazzzers and the other trappings of space opera and skiffy.
Postanowiłam się w końcu wziąć za demony dzieciństwa. Przyznaję - do Pirxa i do Lema w ogóle szkoła mnie zniechęciła i długo nie umiałam przełamać uczucia "nie podobało mi się jak miałam lat jedenaście, nie biorę się za to teraz". Dobrze, że się przełamałam, bo Pirx jest po prostu świetny. Świetny bohater, świetny człowiek, świetne opowiadania. Łyknęłam w podróży, na dwa razy, bo w tę i z powrotem ;) Chcę więcej takiej fantastyki. Ulubione opowiadanie? "Albatros".Ciut więcej: http://ziarnomysli.blogspot.com/2016/...
Поредната книга с разкази на Лем, интересни сами по себеси като фантастика, но по стила на Лем засягащи въпросите на човешката психика и природа. Особено внимание трябва да се обърне на първия разказ "Условен рефлекс", който освен много интересно и внушително написан, може да се спори че всъщност описва реален психологически тест, който ще се ползва в близко бъдеще за подготовка на космонавти. Втория и третия разказ недоразвиват идеите си, от което остава впечатление на недовършеност и недоизказаност.
The future that wasn't and won't be, but interesting because imagined out of Poland. Space flight with cathode ray bulbs, impossible, but other things are solid as imagined, such as what it would be like to live with another person, who you don't know, in isolation in a space ship or on the moon in a station. These are good stories, worth reading. But when reading a book that has been translated from another language, do we enjoy the author's story or the interpretation of the author's words?
It's a bunch of short stories about this character, the eponymous Pirx. They're good science fiction and pretty good for short stories. The only problem I had was that the american version is cut up into two books of five stories each, and the Polish version has them all in one. Whatever, right?They seem to repeat themes quite often, but they're sometimes funny and usually strange and the last story, terminus, is good even by short story standards. My short story standards are very high.
I got this in an ebook sale at Amazon a while back. I've been a fan of Lem for a long time, and I thought I'd read this back in high school, but when I read it this time none of it seemed familiar. The story isn't as humorous as something like The Cyberiad or as inventive as The Futurological Congress. The stories were still interesting, but newcomers would probably want to look to other books by Lem first.
