https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/380558.Time_to_Murder_and_Create
Two-bit blackmailer “Spinner” Jablon hires Matthew Scudder to find a murderer.
He entrusts Matt with an envelope filled with “dirt” on three blackmail “clients," and, if he dies suddenly, wants Scudder to discover which of the three is responsible.
Soon Jablon's body is fished out of the East River with a smashed-up skull, and Scudder decides to act as if he were the inheritor of the blackmail operation, hoping this strategy will compel the murderer to show his hand.
Of course I discovered the murderer before he did—that is one of the pleasures of reading detective fiction—but it was a much longer period of time than it should have been.
All of the things that made The Sins of the Fathers such a memorable read are even better in this second installment of Block’s excellent noir, mystery series.
These stories are as much about what Scudder does away from the “case” as his investigations and that makes this something fairly unique.
As I reader, I find myself coming back to the series as much to catch up on how Matt’s doing (hoping he’s doing better, but knowing he probably isn’t) as to see what kind of horrible crime he’s investigating.
One day he shows up with money in his pockets and an offer for Matt: Hold onto an envelope to be opened if Spinner gets killed.
It seems like easy money and weeks pass until Spinner misses his regular check-in and his body is found in the river.When Matt opens the envelope he finds a note from Spinner, a wad of cash, and blackmail info on three people.
The idea is to get whoever killed Spinner to try and kill Matt so he can know who had Spinner murdered, but his plan may have succeeded a little too well.This is another great entry in the Scudder series.
3.5*A very entertaining read.
In this, the second of the so-far-enjoyable Scudder series, our hero is tasked with figuring out which of three shitty people with a darkened past was the one who did-in his friend.
I find comfort in the way the subject is handled, the way Matt Scudder handles the situation, and the way Lawrence Block handles his words.
He's got a way with them, that man does!Also, I've been listening, as opposed to reading, this Scudder series, and I absolutely love the narrator, Alan Sklar's voice, cadence, etc etc.
So, we've got despicable criminals doing shitty things, a detective who's a decent man but not the most likable of people, and a somber narrator.
His "office" is in a saloon, where he passes most days and evenings drinking coffee laced with bourbon.One afternoon an old acquaintance, "Spinner" Jablon, finds Matt in Armstrong's, the saloon where Matt spends much of his time.
Poor Spinner winds up floating in the East River, and when Matt opens the envelope, he discovers that Jablon had been blackmailing three fairly wealthy people.
As a result, Matt finds himself in the middle of a moral quandary and discovers that his own life may now be on the line.This book is now nearly forty years old, but the story is still as gripping as if it were written yesterday.
Stoolie and blackmailer Spinner Jablon winds up dead and due to a mysterious envelope entrusted to him by Spinner, Matthew Scudder is trying to find out who killed him.
Can Scudder find out who killed Jablon before he becomes a victim himself?Wow. I knew I had something with Lawrence Block after I read the Grifter's Game a few years ago but I had no idea he was capable of something like this.
Scudder continues to develop as a character; he's opposed to murder but not opposed to picking a dead man's pockets.
In the afterword Block explains that Time to Murder and Create is the second Scudder book he wrote, but it was the third to be published.
The only real crime in Scudder's books (that I can see so far) is murder.
I like that even in this Scudder doesn't suffer from hubris: "I don't know if human life is sacred.
I don't want to kill you, I don't want to expose you...I'm sick of playing an incompetent version of God." And that almost makes it okay for me to swallow the fact that (view spoiler)[Scudder is willing to let a pedophile -- a rapist of children -- basically walk away scot-free with his dirty little secrets in tact.
Hold on to an envelope; if Spinner dies, open it and take whatever action Scudder thinks is right.
Needless to say, something happens to Spinner, the envelope is opened and Scudder finds himself contacting the unsavory victims of Spinner's blackmail in an effort to solve his murder.Block's skill at characterization continues to shine.
Here she checks out a visitor for Scudder and her description makes a strange kind of sense: "You know who he looks like?
You know, high rawhide boots and a wide-brimmed hat and smelling of horseshit, and the tattoo on his hand.
Other than learning that you do not, in fact, vote, my literary crush on you knows no bounds.
With one-liners like Somebody put money in the jukebox, and Lesley Gore said it was her party and she would cry if she wanted to.andYou don’t want people driving cars at you.
It’s unhealthy.I, in fact, find you downright irresistible.Since some pretty kick-ass reviewers have tackled this the second-written of Block's Matthew Scudder stories (see Trudi, Carol, Kemper, and  Dan's reviews for starters), I decided that I could best contribute to the Scudder fandom by attempting to create a visual for the character described as (and, yes, the Watergate reference made me fall a little harder for Lawrence Block):A Marlboro man with eyes like Ehrlichman.As I'm sure you can tell, I'm not exactly what you would call a "photoshop-wiz," but I mean, well, I tried...sort of.
There turns out to be three people to investigate and more red herrings than Agatha Christies back catalogue.As in the previous novels it takes some good old fashioned detective work to get to the bottom of this mystery and a bit of hardcore drinking.
I might try me this drinking coffee and whiskey malarkey, sounds like it just lets you drink for longer and be more alert whilst doing so.The audiobook was the same as before, good but not great.
The narrator does different voices to help distinguish characters and has a bit of a gravelly voice to add to the old school detective feel.
While I agree with Scudder that murder is worse than most other crimes & that Spinner, for all his faults, at least has never killed anyone & thus deserves better than being dumped in the river with a broken skull, let's be honest here - raping kids is pretty much as horrible & reprehensible as murder.
I'm not breaking up with Scudder or anything, but in the future, please let's have the pedophiles get more than just a slap on the wrist, shall we?
Much as the ending of Robert Altman's movie features a "morally just" murder as an addition after the case is solved Matt Scudder takes the same "morally just" attitude towards closing this second case, only without the bloody corpse floating in a river.Lawrence Block writes this stuff better than anyone else I know, his style is addictive to the point where I actively have to consider reading other writers in between hits.
All in a weeks work and safe to say my favourite Scudder to date.
Which brings us to the letter he left in Scudders possession which contains the information that probably has killed Spinner to gebin with.Scudder now has an envelope with the information that Spinner was blackmailing three people: a former porn actress, a rich man who covered up his daughter's hit and run accident, and a pederast politician who might just be the next governor of New York.
Can Scudder find out who killed the Spinner before he becomes a victim himself?Once again a great moral tale about truths people rather not want to get known and go great lengths to hide or kill for it?
Lawrence Block created a tremendous character in Mathew Scudder. Looking forward to reading more of this series. Very enjoyable and entertaining from start to finish!
He has no problem with causing mental anguish to those involved in solving a case but when an unjustified killing takes place, his whole mind seems to shut down and if he’s not turning to booze, he’s sitting on a wooden bench inside a church.Maybe I’m just looking too deep into the character but this is where I found my mind wandering when I put the book down.Nevertheless, I have ridiculously high hopes for the rest of this series.
I thought maybe it was from an earlier Lawrence Block novel, but then it hit me, Scudder is a lot like Matt Cordell (I had to look this up just now, I have no memory of character names for the most part) from Ed McBain's 1958 novel The Gutter and the Grave.
This is kind of like that, but since it's only the second novel and there were lots of other things to enjoy about the novel it didn't bother me (this thing I'm talking about but not actually saying what it is), and I can imagine Block continuing to use this device or aspect of Scudder's character and still keeping his books fresh and enjoyable, unlike say a James Bond movie which is a whole franchise that I find unbearably tedious in it's cookie cutter plot.
3-Stars.
Some parts were good, especially with Trina and Spinner, maybe Guzik.
Mostly, though, it was uneven pacing, repetitious in parts, some clumsy plotting, many characters lacking in depth, all-in-all not nearly as good as the first book.
20% of all girls in America and 8% of all boys are sexually abused before they are 18.
(view spoiler)[I would have just turned in the goddam child rapist to the Media, and THEN investigated the other two "villains" (hide spoiler)]Notes: 39.0% ...
Scudder's actions are repeated THREE TIMES, once for each "villain" 50.0% ...
clumsy plot event.
Sloppy plotting and characterisation..
This hardcover is numbered 239 of 300 and is signed by Lawrence Block and Jonathan Kellerman (introduction).
Written in '76, we find Scudder approached by a small-time acquaintance, Spinner Jablon. Spinner, sporting a nice suit, appears to have moved up in the world. He asks Matt to hold on to an envelope for him, as he fears his life may be in danger.The danger is that Spinner has moved into blackmail, and of his 3 fish on the line, one plans on erasing the blackmailer.For $3000, Scudder is on retainer to open the envelope on Spinner's demise, and put things right.A preposterous premise done right in a hard-boiled way, along with some deliciously devious bad people.
This has become one of my favorite series.
In this episode, small-time informer Jake "The Spinner" Jablon has hired Scudder to find his killer if and when he is killed for his new occupation of blackmailer.
His body is soon found floating in the river, and Scudder is the only person interested in finding who murdered him.
Scudder does a conscientious job, as always, and uncovers some unsavory characters as he solves the case in this no-nonsense, down to earth story.
I really enjoy the setting of the 70s and the lack of techno gadgets, combined with ingenious descriptions of people and places.
3.5 stars -- I'm making my way through Block's Matthew Scudder books since he isn't writing anymore BURGLAR books. I enjoyed this one better than the first in the series; so I'll carry on.
Hard-Boiled characters normally walk that fine line between good and evil but with Matthew Scudder I get the sense that he can’t walk a straight line.You might have noticed that I’ve been trying to write critical reviews lately but when it comes to a book like Time to Murder and Create it is hard to have in-depth criticism.
Like In the Midst of Death, Time to Murder and Create wasn’t as good as The Sins of the Fathers, the series started off strong but now it feels like those crime shows on TV where there is just a new case every time and nothing new or exciting.If I ever need a quick easy palate cleaner, then I might return to the Matthew Scudder because sometimes you need mindless entertainment.
My first matthew scudder and i am not disappointed... short and pacy, I didn't guess the killer correctly bcos I thought that was too obvious, but well..!!
He pays Scudder for keeping an envelope for him, not to be opened unless he is found dead somewhere, which could be likely as he is in the risky business of blackmailing people.
When indeed the Spinner’s body shows up in the river, Scudder opens the envelope with details of 3 individuals who have been blackmailed by the Spinner through the years.
Also it’s been said that he isn’t taking any steps to face his problems or rectify his personal life with his 2 young sons.
I don’t find this unusual and everyone “deals” in his own way.The Scudder series is old, but it’s easy, fast reading.
Matthew Scudder is a fellow who does 'favors' for friends for 'gifts' such as money.
He can be forgiven though since he donates regularly to the money box in churchs.
Ok, Scudder, all's forgiven now, your sins.
But all in all, a great read but Lawrence Block is such a top-notch writer with the creation of a number of characters who are flawed; seriously flawed, some of them.
Block was nominated or won the Shamus, Edgar and Anthony awards and was named a Grand Master by the Mystery Writers of America in 1994.
Reading the Scudder series in order; just one on my list of 10 series.
Tarnished, dirty, mean and nasty, and honest enough to own up to all the above.A friend who is also a blackmailer of criminals and a not-so-decent human being is murdered by one of his victims.
Especially when the murder victim was a friend (however slim) and asked him to solve it.The other thing I'm thinking is that these novels read like you're experiencing Scudder's life and these murders and attempts on his life (count them off, as they occur) are just events that happen, along the way.
But mostly, I'm just thinking that Matt Scudder is a son-of-a-bitch and it's cool that I enjoy his company...
This series. This series here. Thank god there are a lot of books in it, because I think I'm in love.Matt Scudder. So tragic and guilty and badass. It doesn't even matter if he solves a case, just the blundering around threatening people, being sad and drinking is enough for me.Anyway, this book is good. I can't think of anything else to say right now that isn't a spoiler.
A great story.....again. Scudder has a unique sense of justice and he dispenses it evenly no matter his personal distaste for villains and the law.
The plotting has got its issues, Block himself points out that one of the three blackmail victims had no business falling for the ruse.
However if you are reading this series it is because of Matt Scudder.
Scudder has drawn his own lines in the sand and made his peace with it.
But when he knows it doesn't and greasing it is the only way to get optimum results, he won't lose sleep about making acceptable compromises because of factors beyond his control.However Scudder's motivation don't work well within the context of this story.
