https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/394683.A_Bargain_for_Frances
A harrowing meditation on greed, deception, vengeancelust and the nature of Evil, this is Hoban's masterpiece. A near-flawless work of Art.
But looks can be deceiving!We have all had, at one time or another, had to deal with difficult and userous persons whose mendacity and opportunism leaves us out-of-water, bewildered by the changing dynamics of what was ostensibly a mutually-beneficial social engagement, but has somehow turned into a one-way relationship.In this, the Hobans prepare the reader for the political intrigue, unfair dealing, and manipulation of our baser instincts by others for their own gain.
Frances is off to play with her friend Thelma.
For it seems that, whenever Thelma and Frances play together, Frances ends up with the short end of the stick.
Quite a lot when one of those friends ends up being a bit conniving and untruthful, when there is money and much longed-for tea sets involved in a trade cemented with that very firm, fast rule "no backsies."I LOVED this book when I was little.
I was obsessed with every little detail, from Frances' toy stuffed animals to Thelma's little plastic tea set with the red flowers, to the special China blue tea set...
all the way to the little rhyme-song at the end.
I was too old for this book when it was first published but I’m not too old for it now. I recently saw it being discussed here at Goodreads and decided to read it.Oh, how this evokes a feeling of childhood. I’m sure I’d have loved it when I was a kid.I loved trusting and clever Frances, and I’m in agreement with her about the blue tea set.This is a wonderful book for kids who are ready for longer picture books, and would be a perfect springboard for a discussion about what makes someone a good friend.
Frances experiences the dark side of female manipulation and cunning... over a tea set. Great for a read aloud and exploring characters and motivations. My class was literally on the edge of their of seats shaking thier heads saying,"She DIDN'T"
If you have a daughter of granddaughter, or even a female child you can regularly borrow, I thoroughly and wholeheartedly recommend the Frances the Badger series to you.
This book, and Bread and Jam for Frances, were two of my best beloved books when I was a little girl .
and my recent rereading has confirmed their sterling qualities.
Neither the text, nor the charming illustrations by Lillian Hoban, have withered or faded.
Great lessons about friendship in this one, combined with humour, realistic characters (even if they are badgers) and the rhyming ditties that I loved as a child.
"Being careful is not as much fun as being friends," said Frances. "Do you want to be careful, or do you want to be friends?" Nuff said.
Early reader, series: I Can Read.Description: Frances' friend, Thelma, tricks Frances into buying her subpar tea set.
In the end, Frances gets the tea set she wants and helps Thelma become a better friend.Review: In Bargain for Frances, Hoban has developed a very believable, kid-like world using the limited vocabulary of an early reader.
Kids who are almost ready for chapter books will enjoy Frances' adventures in dealing with Thelma, going to the store by herself and skipping rope.
I agree that readers of this book should be comfortable with reading for meaning and should be old enough to appreciate a story about a conflict resolution.Courtot, Marilyn.
A sweet story and book for children. I appreciate that the story had an underlying moral theme to it about not trying to cheat your friends.
moral of the story is you can either be friends or be careful (and being friends turns you into a sucker).
In this book Frances's "best friend" Thelma totally rips her off!Thelma is a nasty biatch! This book made me laugh because as little girls, Thelma and Frances back-stabbed each other for a tea-set,in a couple of years it will be over boyszzz!!! Hahahahahaloll.
The sharp take on friendship (or anything, for that matter) in this book seems rare in PBs. Is that what set it apart, or is it a sign of the times?
A truly wonderful and simple yet perfect book for exploring what a real friendship is and how children can be manipulative little badgers!
When Frances’ mother tells her to be careful on her play date, Frances is confused and her mother has to point out that she got hurt on the last play dates.
Whilst she doesn’t get physically hurt on this play date, she is emotionally manipulated and used.
She comes up with a wonderful solution which is still mean and she recognizes it as such but helps Frances and her friend to move their friendship forward.
It helped a lot!
love these books
Read it to my nephew. He loved it!
But the author never calls out what this behavior is, the mother simply warns her child to "be careful" when playing with this kind of "friend" and eventually the child finds a way to lie and manipulate back to get even.
And in the end they decide it's "better to be friends than to be careful." I could not believe the plot line and the way the author casually addresses really dangerous and bullying behavior in children.
Almost condoning it when the "good" kid did it back to the "bad" kid.
This is not what I would call a bargain) I am shocked by the good reviews.
Level 2 version of A Bargain for Frances in a splurge on my Frances books at my preschooler's request.
Much like with Best Friends for Frances in how Frances uses a bit of whit she is obviously paying attention to some calm methods learned from her parents.
Going to spend the day with a friend that has taken advantage of Frances before, her mother warns her to be careful.
She is tricked out of her money and into a tea set that she did not want while her friend goes and acquires the exact item desired and Frances then has to work it out to get both her tea set and her friend in the end.
A Bargain for Frances is a favorite book for many people.
It was first written in 1970, so it has had the opportunity to be read by millions of people growing up.
Frances and her friends are drawn in wonderful detail and are drawn in a way that makes the reader fall in love with the characters.
The story is written at a perfect level for beginning readers.
Kindergarten through third grade students will love reading about Frances as she learns different lessons in each book.
Not only is the reading level appropriate for this age group, but the children can also relate well to Frances’s problems and learn from them.
Frances is visiting her friend Thelma.
Now, Thelma is one of those kids...
her mom WARNS her and WARNS her that every time she plays with Thelma, things end up badly for her.
SHE is the one who falls in the lake skating (because Thelma wants her to go first).
Frances finally turns the tables on Thelma, with a bit of a mean trick, I must say.
Still and all, it works very well, and if Thelma hasn't learned her lesson we can only hope Frances has.
I had to search for a copy of this for my library, but I had to have it. I still remember picturing the "real china tea set with pictures all in blue" when I was a little girl. The story is about Frances and a "friend" of hers who is more of a bully. She gets tricked by her, and ends up tricking her back to get her to admitt the truth. A clever and fun book that shows you that you should treat others as you would like to be treated.
We've all had that friend like Thelma I think. I understand all too well her mother's urging of "being careful" yet appreciate that she doesn't forbid Frances to play with Thelma and lets her learn things for herself. I think I like this a bit better than some of the other Frances books. It's a fun series overall.
This was always one of my favorite books growing up. It's very fun and gets children to think about telling the truth and actually doing things because you gave your word that you would. It lets us know that doing the right thing may be hard sometimes but we will be respected in the long run if we do.
I absolutely adore this book. It reminds me so of growing up making mud pies and having tea parties with a "real china tea set with pictures on it in blue" (the kind with "trees and birds and a Chinese house and a fence and a boat and people walking on a bridge"). Mostly it reminds me of playing with my next-door neighbor and best friend. We still laugh fifty years later about "no backsies".
This is one of the first books I remember ordering from the book order at school. I ordered the copy with a record and listened to it over and over and over. I think I had every Frances book/record available. It had a chime to signal when to turn the page. That would be a great download to use for text message alerts now! :-)
A parent's request this morning reminded me of this gem. Frances finally gets tired of how Thelma manipulates her, and asks a question along the lines of: "Do you want to be careful, or do you want to be friends." An excellent jumping-off point for discussing young "mean girl" dynamics.
My favorite Frances book (and that is saying a lot)! I remember reading this book as a child and clearly thinking that Thelma was a rotten sneak. I very much understood the reasons why Frances would covet a real china tea set with pictures on it in blue.
I love Frances the badger from way back, as a little girl. She's a happy little badger with a best friend named Thelma and a little sister named Gloria. Frances loves to have tea parties. This particular story is how Frances gets her latest tea set. Lesson: don't trick your friends.
really enjoyed this book about catty girls and the relationship that they share. I remember making mud pies and friends to hang out with. No backsies is hilarious and when frances turns the table on her friend I chuckled..I have to read this to my Sydney she will love it!
Frances is warned (by her mom) to be careful when playing with Thelma. Francess is tricked into buying Thelma's ugly plastic teaset. Francess finds a way to be friends instead. Sweet story about how it's nicer to be friends rather that to be careful.
This is an EXCELLENT book. I can't believe I never read it before today! I have long loved Bread and Jam for Frances, and now I love this one too. Frances is a badger. I can't read a Frances book without remembering that.
