https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18460392-all-the-bright-places
Just know this very very truthful fact:  This is the most incredible book I have read.
Usually I hate going into a book with expectations like that, but for ONCE it was exceptionally incredibly totally spot-on.
It made the book so personal because I know people with mental illnesses and I suffer from some (though not the same as Finch's) myself and ...
I didn't want it to end, but at the same time I just felt like it was procrastinating.
*throws flowers of sadness* I LOVED THE BOOK.
The characters are just so real, I felt like I was in the book.
Hmm, so there's a girl whose name is a colour (Violet) and a boy whose name makes him sound like he burst from the pages of a Dickens' novel (Theodore Finch) and they're both super quirky, intelligent and know the names of a bunch of dead poets.
why does it feel like I've read this before?Err...Oh, right.Okay...
John Green, of course, created his own set of quirky characters to make a humorous book about cancer, and now we've reached the same for suicide.
These characters all feel so fake; like plot tools the author uses to extract our emotions.
*EDIT*Full review here: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DXQBq...I don't even know what to say... I'm sure the words will come, and at that point I'll try to film a review. But for now I'll just think about a million and one things. My gosh <3Review copy provided by publisher in exchange for an honest review.
the characters weren't people, just mental illnesses put into bodies. "quirky" but in reality mentally ill. not cool. nobody treated the characters' problems like they were real problems and that pissed me offfffhowever, if you enjoyed the book/could relate to the characters, that's totally fine. this one just wasn't for me unfortunately.
OMGTHIS BOOKHASCHANGEDME
The thing about adults writing YA novels is that they try to sound fucking stupid.
“It's my experience that people are a lot more sympathetic if they can see you hurting, and for the millionth time in my life I wish for measles or smallpox or some other easily understood disease just to make it easier on me and also on them.”This novel touches on death, depression, and suicide; it paints a picture of love in a canvas of pain.
You don’t need to experience death to know the pain.
The reason I'm telling all of these personal things is I want some people to know a few things from someone that really thinks about these things.
I'm going to add a quote from the book that sums up how I feel personally and I know alot of people feel the same way.
Anyway, Finch ends up talking Violet down from the tower but lets everyone think it's the other way around and she is labeled as a hero.
**I'm going to put the Author's Note in here because I think it is another important thing for people to read.
Seeing other people's reviews on this book that I really trust made me realise a lot of things that I don't really agree with.
Right at the time I was reading this, I felt like I could really relate to the main characters and their depression and I think that's why I thought I loved it so much and why I somehow overlooked some really concerning things.
I'm really sorry if this is your favourite book or something, but people's opinions can change after a lot of deliberation and personal growth and stuff.
I know myself well enough to know that no one else can keep you awake or keep you from sleeping.”I honestly don’t know how I’m supposed to write a review about this book.It made me so damn sad that I feel whatever I say, it just won’t be enough.It will never do my feelings justice.The sadness I’m feeling is impossible to put into words.It’s the kind of sadness that festers in your heart.The sort of sadness that makes you ache all over and draws the air from your lungs.Maybe it’s because this book hit way too close to home.Maybe it’s because I know exactly how Violet felt.Maybe it’s because in some way Theo reminded me so much of myself.”The wall has various names: Wall of Thoughts, Wall of Ideas, Wall of My Mind, or just The Wall, not to be confused with Pink Floyd.
If I can get one person that needs to read this book to read it through my review..it's worth it."May you eye go to the Sun, To the wind your soul.." "Or go to the waters if it suits thee there."Theodore Finch: That odd boy who tries on different personalities hoping to find one that will put him into "Awake" mode.
Finch nominates Violet to be his partner and our story begins.This book does move slowly at times.
They explain people away as illnesses.....................................................................I get into these moods sometimes, and I can't shake them.
This is one of those set-ups (girl meets boy as they're both standing on a ledge contemplating suicide, rat-a-tat precocious-funny dialogue ensues) that probably works better as an indie darling romantic comedy film than it does in book form, as there are no soundtracks or Instagram-type filters or dizzying camera tricks to distract from the main point of the story.It's not that I don't think heavy topics can't be handled with a light hand (see the excellent--and hilarious--Suicide Notes, and I believe pretty much every John Green novel I haven't read), but thus far I'm not charmed enough by the relationships or humor or writing here to forget that suicide is used as a cute plot device.
This is my secret---that any moment I might fly away.  Somehow I think 5 stars aren’t enough for such an ultra-remarkey-able book; if I can, I’ll definitely give it as many stars as those shining in the entire universe because All The Bright Places deserves them all, seriously.For starters, I actually like the way Theodore Finch met Violet Markey---on the ledge six stories above the ground at the Bell Tower in their high school on a rainy day---it's a rather beautiful encounter for me.Theodore
Somehow I think 5 stars aren’t enough for such an ultra-remarkey-able book; if I can, I’ll definitely give it as many stars as those shining in the entire universe because All The Bright Places deserves them all, seriously.For starters, I actually like the way Theodore Finch met Violet Markey---on the ledge six stories above the ground at the Bell Tower in their high school on a rainy day---it's a rather beautiful encounter for me.Theodore Finch was a teenage boy who was extremely fascinated by death, especially suicidal incidents happened and recorded in the history, and he was also suffering from various levels of misfortune, such as domestic violence, bullied/labeled, and bipolar disorder.
And while depression really is all consuming and can make you feel like you're made up of not molecules but sadness, I feel that a book about depression should show that there is more to people than their illness.
It makes me sad that these characters were defined by their illness and the adults in this book didn't give a flying fuck about what was going on with them.
I just got too caught up in the hype and was seeing a beautiful story when really, what was making it beautiful was the romanticizing of mental illness and depression.
I’ve paid my debtsand no longer need to countpains I’ve suffered at the hands of others.
A damn good YA contemporary that deals with the complex issues around suicide.
It is something that so many of us have dealt with first hand, I myself know two people who have committed suicide before I’ve even turned 25.
“We do not remember days, we remember moments.” Both have suffered trauma in their pasts, and find peace and understanding with each other.
“What a terrible feeling to love someone and not be able to help them.” A wonderful tale that highlights the taboo that still surrounds cases of suicide.
VioletI feel like she only really existed here to be the emotional component of this book.
There is plenty of woe is me/my sister died so I use that as an excuse to hide from life from this character.
Because he was always desperate for attention it stands to reason that his actual cries for help were ignored.
It's not okay to romanticize the notion that counselors and peer groups can't be a place of support and help when having these kind of thoughts.
I know teens like a tortured love story, but I'm just really ready for this sick-lit trend to end.
Here's the thing: Your life matters.
He’s the ‘‘Freak’’, careless and doesn’t know or acknowledge how the many things he does every day might hurt people around him.
A part of her knows it wasn’t her fault…yet she can’t help but think about all the ‘‘If only I…’’ Finch was the most complicated to understand, decipher.
I could try to, but the thing is that he, as a main character, is not fully honest with us.
The first part, when Finch & Violet slowly got to know one another, was sweet but, when they became lovers, my interest wandered around and tried to anchor itself on something else, because I really wanted this to be more than a romance novel.
All the Bright Places takes you to All the Good Places and All the Bad Places and everywhere in between, and the words that take you there are spellbinding.Jennifer Niven just knocks it out of the park with this story in every way: the dialogue is so real it's haunting, she paints scenes so well you forget you're not watching a movie, and Theodore Finch and Ultraviolet go down with Holden Caulfield and Holly Golightly as characters you're sure never to forget.
Every now and then you find a book that not only makes you think, but changes the way you look at the world. 'All the Bright Places', in all its clever, poetic and honest beauty is one of those books. It will stay with me, forever.
MY FEELINGS:REVIEW TO COME!!!
I wish we got more complexity from Finch and Violet as individuals, in particular Violet, whose grief storyline felt overshadowed by Finch's perspective.3: The parts of the book that pertained to mental illness lacked precision.
Niven could have replaced more of the too-overt symbolism and adolescent hyper-intellectualism with scenes that might have layered Finch and Violet as individuals, because people in real life go through similar struggles, and they deserve accurate representation.As someone who has a lot of personal experience and exposure to mental illness, I wanted more from this book.
Ugh. Just, no.
Mental illness is not a cute little quirk.
It isn't something that kickstarts a misfit, high school romance.
It is not something that automatically makes you more witty, or intelligent, or really all that different from your peers.
It isn't at all what is portrayed in this book.
Niven's intentions may be wonderful, and she is right that we need more books about mental health and illness.
But this makes a mockery of it.
Mental illness doesn't need this kind of erroneous portrayal just for the sake of being included in fiction.
Is today a good day to die?  All the Bright Places turned out to be one of the most personal books of the year for me. Although it's being marketed as "The Fault in Our Stars meets Eleanor and Park", I have to violently disagree. As someone who detested The Fault in Our Stars and hasn't read Eleanor and Park, All the Bright Places touched something inside me that these books did not.Theodore Finch, seventeen, wants to die. He knows the best ways to commit suicide, as well as the international
As someone who detested The Fault in Our Stars and hasn't read Eleanor and Park, All the Bright Places touched something inside me that these books did not.Theodore Finch, seventeen, wants to die.
But then someone points at the bell tower -- not at Finch, who has been labelled 'freak' and 'weirdo' and whom no one really cares about -- but at a girl who has climbed onto the ledge beside him, Violet.
Together, Violet learns how to live from a boy who wants to die, and Finch tries to remain Awake for as long as possible.
What I will say is: ~Theodore Finch is one of the most endearing characters I’ve ever read about~This book made me want to wander, to get out and explore the world around me, or just the state that I live in~This book made me think about my life~This book hit important topics that people need to know more about and recognize (view spoiler)[“I’m not a compilation of symptoms.
(hide spoiler)] ~This book will leave you emotionally drained, but it’s SO WORTH IT!All the Bright Places is a book that needs to be read.
If this is the way all my YA books are going to be this year, I’m pretty sure I’ll exceed my 25 goal!
4.5 STARS ACTUALLY.SO FREAKING WORTH READING.IT'S AN ART.THERE IS NO NEED FOR MORE WORDS.
Niven concocts a controversial narrative about suicide and mental illness with the intention of bringing forth light into all the darkest places yet the way she handles/executes this story is both disheartening and callous to those who are facing their everyday "black holes and blue holes and bottomless bodies of water and exploding stars and event horizons, and a place so dark that light can’t get out once it’s in."Bartlett, Indiana - Theodore Finch has a history of extreme mood swings and suicidal thoughts.
You wanted to have some kind of representation by using suicide/mental illness.
I can't even scramble my thoughts together for a review. Unrealistic and incredibly irritating. None of the characters' actions made sense. The only time I liked the story is whenever Theo's depression (????) was triggered and he became aloof and dissociated, because that was more tolerable than his annoying antics leading Violet on and perpetuating this "Theodore Freak" label at school. As a reader, I feel really guilty that the only parts of this book that I enjoyed were the parts that the characters' feelings were being annihilated by the author. Really disappointed with how this ended, as well.
2.5 stars "He smiles out at the ugly trees and the ugly farmland and the ugly kids as if he can see Oz. As if he can really, truly see the beauty that's there.
In that moment I wish I could see it through his eyes.
I wish he had glasses to give me." Can someone give me their glasses too, because I can't see it.
I don't see the appeal.
I don't see what inspired thousands of reviewers to post sobbing gifs, and those that disliked The Fault in Our Stars to tote it as amazeballs when it's the exact
(Heads up, I don't like The Fault In Our Stars or Paper Towns)I'll tell you what I do see:-Two overly quirky teenagers-Finch's borderline creepy obsession with Violet in the beginning.
Instead of Gus helping Hazel to live life to the fullest, it's Finch.
Gus writes Hazel a letter, which she received in an unusual way, and Finch writes Violet a song, which she went through a treasure hunt to get.
(hide spoiler)]I read the acknowledgements, where the author say she was partially inspired to write All The Bright Places because she was close to someone who committed suicide.
You're not sure what kind of book it is at first - especially if you're like me and don't brush up on the blurb beforehand.
One thing this book does is open your eyes to the realities of living with a mental disorder.
He's so messed up, yet no one cares enough to even realize this is bigger than simple teenage angst.Despite his issues, Finch can be so spontaneous and fun, he sees the good in things, makes life into an adventure.
Theodore Finch and Violet Markey first meet on the ledge of the bell tower at school.
Finch very gently talks Violet off of the very ledge he himself was thinking of leaping off.
He helps her feel things and do things and see things she never thought possible.All the Bright Places is told in a dual point-of-view, Violet and Finch's.
The author did a great job of bringing more awareness to them.
All things that we all need to be more aware of.
It's sad but the stigma that's still attached to many of these issues needs to be obliterated through even more awareness and support.
Violet is counting the days until she graduates and can leave her hometown behind (and hopefully her grief over her sister's death).
Ultimately, Theodore speaks up and saves Violet's life.
Both characters are different- Theodore is considered the school freak and Violet is the popular pretty girl.
His is a strained relationship with his father and depression, hers is her guilt and grief over her sister's death.
Just who is saving who up on that tower?
Young love ensues in which Violet blossoms and her world begins to get brighter, happier....but what of Theodore?Such a beautiful and heartbreaking book.
