https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/5736.Coming_of_Age_in_Mississippi
She participated in the heavily publicized Woolworth sit-in, which was known for its violence, and was deeply shaken by the deaths of four black girls in the 1963 bombing of the 16th Street Baptist Church in Birmingham, Alabama.
Mama used to tell us that you would forgive us twenty-seven times a day and I believed in you.
If you don’t believe that, then I know you must be white, too.
Moody provided details about intimidation, beatings, shootings, and other acts of violence enacted by the Ku Klux Klan against African Americans and their white supporters and about the institutionalized racism that kept many black families mired in poverty.
Moody's memoir blends strength and vulnerability, showcasing her thirst for change as well as the frustrations she faced as a poor black woman who grew up in the south.
Above all else, Moody's personality shines: an unapologetic, motivated spirit who works to get what she wants, no matter which boy or bigot stands in her way.While the first 200-250 pages of Coming of Age in Mississippi felt discursive and muddled, I would still recommend this book to anyone interested in civil rights, coming of age tales, or memoirs written by people of color.
What Moody lacks in finesse, she makes up for in conviction.
In 1968: the war in Vietnam is fully underway and politically divisive in the U.S.; Martin Luther King Jr. is assassinated in Memphis; Robert Kennedy is assassinated in San Francisco; Black power salute of raised fist at Olympics medal ceremony; Richard Nixon wins the presidential election, George Wallace gets 13.5%; Apollo 8 circles the moon.The book covers two decades of the life of Anne Moody from the time she was four years old until she graduated from Tougaloo College in Jackson, Mississippi.
The teacher who helped her was fired at the end of the year although Annie never knew why and never saw her again.The third section is titled College and is about 10% of the book.
I looked forward to reading it because it promised an interesting first-hand perspective, that of Anne Moody, an insider in the civil rights movement or, as Sen. Edward Kennedy stated, "A history of our time, seen from the bottom up." I was greatly disappointed because it offered little insight.The autobiography often read like a catalogue of events: I did this and then I did this and then.
Martin Luther King went on and on talking about his dream.
Where did Publisher's Weekly find "good writing"?!Moody has a story worthy of telling, but it could have been more effectively told.
The courage of those willing to risk their lives and their sanity in order to help create a better world is undeniable, and Anne Moody proves herself to be one of those courageous people who give hope to the rest of us.However, the book does not end on an optimistic note.
This reflects a significant change in the political climate and in the tone of the Civil Rights movement between the events described and the publication of the book.
Words that come to mind after reading this book....compelling, fascinating, obsessively drawn into, ultra-honest.
Coming of Age in Mississippi published in 1968, but it could have been published 2008 as far as I'm concerned because I felt like I was there with Anne Moody.
Anne Moody was one of the students who staged the sit-in at the Woolworth lunch counter in Jackson, Mississippi.
Skip the history textbooks, I think this should be a must-read for all U.S. high school students.
I felt this added a cultural dimension to the memoir increasing the you-are-there feel of the book.
59)Vor allem dieser erste Teil des Buchs liest sich flüssig wie ein Roman.Anne Moody erweist sich als begabte Schülerin und geht nach der Grundschule zur High-School, wo sie weiterhin große schulische Erfolg erzielt, auch im Sport.
Mit ihrem Eintritt in die High-School und ihrer zunehmenden Erfahrung mit weißen Arbeitgebern beginnt sie, sich für die Bürgerrechtsbewegung zu interessieren.
Auch wenn ich mich schon ein wenig mit der Bürgerrechtsbewegung beschäftigt habe, war es mir vor der Lektüre dieses Buchs nicht klar, wie gefährlich nicht nur ein solches Engagement für die Rechte schwarzer Bürger, sondern schon die bloße Existenz als Afroamerikaner in den Südstaaten war.
As much as I respect Anne Moody and all that she accomplished and experienced in her life, this autobiography didn't really touch my heart or my soul in any way.
It was missing the personal touches of emotion that I expected from a book like this.
We barely get a glimpse of Adline and Junior (Moody's real siblings) and that too, only when Anne is 23 and grown.
I don't know, I just wasn't as impressed with this autobiography as I expected to be.
A first-hand and painfully honest account of what it was really like to grow up poor in rural Mississippi and then to ‘come of age’ and be a part of the onset of America’s Civil Rights Movement.Told in first person narrative, this book is like having a conversation with the author, Anne Moody.
In Anne Moody’s autobiography, you will read of the struggles, the brutality, the sit-ins, the killings, the prejudices, the shear and constant exhaustion, will and determination of those involved in the movement paved the way for change from someone who lived it.
The more I thought about it, the more it seemed that the federal government was directly or indirectly responsible for most of the segregation, discrimination, and poverty in the South. I've noticed a tendency towards One Memoir to Rule Them All when it comes to times of turmoil, whether 1960's US civil rights or the Shoah or Guantanamo Bay. Thus, it is likely an uncomfortable shock for some to realize that there aren't only multiple survivors of German concentration camps living in their count
You can make CoAiM fit if you strip enough of the context away and leave the bare bones of schools attended, grades received, and year of college degree accomplished, but you would miss the entire point of a four year old black girl escaping a burning house and charging into a life of endless child labor fenced in by scams, segregation, and terrorism, the reality of which hits Anne Moody right the around the age the average white kid is getting bored of Chuck E.
My interest in the civil rights movement was piqued recently from Remembering America, the memoir of JFK’s and LBJ’s speechwriter.
Since that book gave a top-down look at the origin of civil rights legislation, I wanted the bottom-up viewpoint of someone who participated in the movement.
It’s impossible to read this without admiring her.The last quarter of the book is all about the movement.
I’m amazed that so many civil rights activists, black and white alike, had the courage to go on fighting in the face of death threats, beatings, lynchings, and bombings.
I was a little disappointed that the book did not mention the Civil Rights Act of 1964 at all.
Anne Moody remembers her time growing up with great detail and she intends to retell this time exactly how it occurred, even at the risk of alienating herself from the civil rights movement the rest of us are taught.One of the reasons that Coming Of Age In Mississippi succeeds the way it does is because it operates like a story.
Though her description of her time in Canton, Mississippi are the most telling and effective parts of her story, it is the events that lead her to Canton that perhaps bring a light to the Civil Rights Movement as well or better than other literature I have read.
I first heard this book recommended as an alternative to The Help: a memoir about the segregated South and the civil rights movement, written by a black woman who became an activist.
After reading it, I consider it an excellent alternative to all those books about the segregated South written by white people – you know the ones, with their cardboard too-good-to-be-true characters who exist to be victims.
She didn’t think the movement needed dreamers).At any rate, I consider this memoir well worth reading, especially for Americans interested in how much our country has changed (and how much it hasn’t) in the last 50 years.
EVERYONE needs to read this book. It's a true story of a young civil-rights activist. After she wrote the book, which you will not be able to put down once you start, she went into seclusion because many people bashed her for writing her story. It's heart-wrenching and hopeful. Anne Moody's courage is obvious and she never asks for your sympathy. You will learn so much from this book.
Completely forthright and never sentimental, Anne Moody's autobiography is an eye opening experience. Moody, who was the same age as Emmett Till, was deeply affected by his kidnapping and murder and a fiery determination to fight for justice and equality was born. This book is a must read. Highly recommended.
As Moody matter-of-factly recounts her childhood experiences in the deep south, starting from age six or so; as her understanding of her environment grows, so does her discontent, idealism and determination to work for change.
Portions devoted to describing how her own physical beauty, intelligence, courage and athletic skill was greater than those around her seem out of place and unnecessary, but this is an autobiography, so the author can tell her own story as she pleases.The book ends in 1964, at a point when Moody finds herself exhausted and struggling with fatalism after several years of involvement with the Civil Rights Movement.
The reconciliation scene with her mother was a case in point: she acknowledged she had behaved horribly but then ...
kept behaving horribly, and with the shallowest, most egotistical excuse.
Also, she described things from such a distance that it was kind of hard to get connected to them - and very hard to get connected to her, since she was so cut off from her own emotions.Now, of course, that kind of affectless response to horror in the re-telling s a classic product of trauma, but here's where I say to every memoirist: yeah, but ...
the story needs you to tell it.
I recently re-read this book, remembering it as one of the most important books in my life and the book that ultimately led to my decision to major in history in undergrad.
To the point where her stories of activist work in the Civil Rights struggle took a backseat descriptions of how great she looked in her new dress, how all the boys thought she was the prettiest, and how she was the prettiest.
While this will remain a standard requirement on all History 7B reading lists in universities, and I believe it should stay there, it is important this isn't the only memoir used to illustrate the struggle of the times...
On the surface, her experience would appear alien to anything I lived.However, Anne Moody tells her story in a way I could relate to: feeling like an outsider in her own family, deeply marked by poverty and emotional isolation growing up.
For the adults around her, her expectations can reach no farther than domestic service, marriage (or not) and babies.No wonder, then, that Moody threw herself heart and soul into the Civil Rights Movement.
The people involved in the Movement become her "family", as described toward the end of the narrative, providing what little support she had.
As such, Anne Moody’s story symbolically stands as evidence that there would have been no “movement” without the millions of people who marched, protested, and fought for their rights.
Later in the book, Anne remarks about a march in Washington that drew millions of people; she was surprised to find she had “dreamers” instead of “leaders” in the movement.
Moody, starts her story as a young child growing up.
Considering her involvement in the Civil Rights Movement later in life, I assumed she would have always been outspoken.
Firstly, it is a story of a young African American girl and her early childhood and the poverty and struggles of her family in Mississippi.
It is also a story of a fiery intelligent young women dealing with the racism, poverty and hatred that she encountered growing up in such a G-d forsaken place, the author's own struggles with her family ,and her search for autonomy.
American Ghost never deals on a real level with the problems engendered by a a racist society.An incredible memoir, this book should be mandatory reading for all those interested in studying this sad, brutal period of American History.
A sad, sobering, down-to-earth look at the Civil Rights movement.
The author does not claim to be a "writer," but an activist who wanted to tell her own story.
It provides us with an inside look at growing up in the south in the 50s and 60s - a painful aspect of American history that cannot be ignored.
Her story ends on a bitter tone and she discontinued her work in the Movement.
I'm glad I read the book as it painted such a vivid picture of what "regular people" in the South have been through, but I can't help but wonder if the author still lives in sadness and bitterness today.
This was a pretty remarkable book, one that truly grows on you as you follow Annie Moody through her life.
While her early years growing up in a small rural Mississippi town in the '40s were not marked by violence, the early stirrings of the Civil Rights movement prompted a rapid and ruthless white repression of black civil rights.
This was the kind of book that should be required reading for any American, especially considering the truly vile racism that this year's election has unearthed in some of those "pro-America" parts of our country - and, sadly, in some blue states, too.
I feel uncomfortable with fictional books on racism that become popular because the main character is a white person that heroically saves the African Americans.
I prefer to hear about racism from an African American perspective.
This is a true story about Anne Moody growing up in rural Mississippi and the institutionalized racism that keeps her family in poverty.
She ends up being bravely involved in the Civil Rights Movement.
This book is gritty and real.
She tells her story without embellishment and it is raw and horrifying.
One of the best books I've read on the Civil Rights movement.
Anne Moody grew up in segregation-era Mississippi, and writes of her contemporaries being shot in cold blood while going about their daily lives, and of being openly intimidated for the "crime" of being born with brown skin.
In "Coming of Age," she speaks of her hardscrabble childhood, her navigation of school challenges (she was the first in her family to go to university) and her dangerous work in the Civil Rights movement.
I sat there thinking that in Canton [where Moody did the bulk of her activism] we never had time to sleep, much less dream.We still hear that today.
So here is my review, mostly consisting of quotes that I want to remember, but I know I'll re-read this book several times in the years to come.One thing I really appreciated about this autobiography was Anne Moody's perspective on events I consider seminal to the civil rights movement in Mississippi.
Probably just being a Negro period was enough, I thought."Black Lives Matter, anyone?On the integration of the Woolworth's in Jackson:"After the sit-in, all I could think of was how sick Mississippi whites were.
I sat there in the NAACP office and thought of how many times they had killed when this way of life was threatened.
The author’s purpose for this book is to show people who grew up in places without segregation what it’s like to grow up in the south as a young, black woman in 1968.
This is a memoir written about Essie Mae and her tough life growing up in Mississippi in poverty with many dark, and violent sides to the story.
It’s difficult to read and to believe someone lived like that and went through that is challenging.
One theme I found in this book to be true and in which I still see today everywhere, is that people are more privileged than they think.
Wow! Amazing, tragic, heart warming and righteous. Really helps you understand what the Front lines of the freedom movement went through.
For instance, when a house full of activists hear through the grapevine that a group of whites are going to kill them that night and block all the roads out of town, the young men and women lay out in the yard all night in long grass.
Later, I learned that in one town where Moody leads a group of activists that black people have most of the land and make up most of the population.
I loved it.
This is the best book I've read in 2017.
I laughed so much at Essie Mae. She was so smart and brave at such a young age.
And she made me mad having all those children with no money.I think I connected with Essie Mae. Her perspective and the way she responded to people, even when she was very little, might as well have been me.
I was mad at her for her fight in the Movement and I was cheering her on.
Again, I loved this book.
She was Essie Mae to me.
