https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/368034.Hidden_Fires
In 1800s Texas, a wealthy matriarch makes a scandalous offer to a preacher's daughter: to marry, in name only, her rebellious son. Now, embroiled in a nightmare of distrust and betrayal, the innocent young lady must try to melt the ice of hatred around the playboy's heart.  I enjoyed this one. One of her older books. Maybe the reason it has stood the test of time is because it is a Historical. I find a lot of her older books set in the 80s or 90s are just too dated.“Don’t be afraid of loving t
One of her older books.
I find a lot of her older books set in the 80s or 90s are just too dated.“Don’t be afraid of loving this man, Maria had told her.
Gently her fingers played over him, curious, wondering fingers, fingers made exultant by their discoveries.Reflexively Jared arched his back.
But her body was so female, her lips so soft, warm, virginal, that what had been hurtful and brutal became tender, seeking, questioning.”"That is Señor Jared's room ...
He (Carlos) say Señor Jared can please any woman"
There was more depth to this book than some of her older books.
Instagram || Twitter || Facebook || Amazon || PinterestIf you're new to following me, one of the things that you should definitely know about me is that I love vintage romance novels. I think they're super fun, partially because they're a snapshot of a different time, when expectations for women (and tolerance for racism and sexism) have become utterly outmoded, and partially because they are cheesy and bad in a way that's hard to find outside of the gamut of self-published and utterly self-ind
I think they're super fun, partially because they're a snapshot of a different time, when expectations for women (and tolerance for racism and sexism) have become utterly outmoded, and partially because they are cheesy and bad in a way that's hard to find outside of the gamut of self-published and utterly self-indulgent trash-reads.HIDDEN FIRES is not a good book - in fact, in many ways, it is an objectively bad book - and yet despite loathing parts of it and shaking my head at even more parts of it, I did have fun reading it while internally making fun of it because it is so ridiculous.Set in the old west (e.g. Texas in what I imagine is the late 1800s), the heroine, Lauren, is a virginal stereotype of propriety wronged: after a corrupt preacher tries to put the moves on her, he manages to gaslight her adoptive family into thinking that she's a harlot.
Acabo de darme cuenta de que este libro ya lo había leído...
que mal que no lo recordará antes.
En serio, ha sido como "oh, y luego pasara esto, no sé cómo pero lo sé" y pasaba hahahha le pongo 3 estrellas porque no recordaba el libro y no pienso volver a leerlo.
No sé si saben, pero NUNCA he releído un libro en mi vida.
No quiero empezar con este hahaha.
Lo que puedo decir es que la narración de la autora es tan simple, natural y atrayente como en sus otras novelas, me encanta como escribe y la forma tan peculiar de transportarte al lugar que se está mencionando.
3.5 ☆Me estaba gustando mucho y pensaba que rozaría las 4.5 ☆ Al final no ha sido así, porque he tenido mis disgustos con ambos protas. Él se pasa tres pueblos con su terquedad, y a ella la he visto demasiado sumisa, me hubiera gustado que le plantase cara a Jared y haberla visto sacar más carácter. Pero, en general, ha sido una buena lectura. Sandra Brown me suele gustar mucho.
3º libro del #RetoRita2 #RitaBrownPrácticamente un día me ha durado esta novela, la primera romántica que escribió la autora. Me ha parecido entretenidísima, con una protagonista muy de su época pero muy abierta de mente y un protagonista nada plano, con sus claroscuros y detalles maravillosos, que tanto gustan a la autora. La historia en general me ha encantado, pena que el final sea marca de la casa Brown, algo precipitado. Lees la última página y piensas ¿y la siguiente?, ¿ya está? Lo de revolcarse en el felices para siempre no es lo suyo, está claro.
Review written April 30, 20173.8 Stars - Old fashioned romance with western cowboy feeling.
Yummy sweet and melodramaticA quite new audiobook edition of a 35 years old historical romance by SB from 1982.
Lauren has strong feelings for him but are they strong enough?
But in the end it all solved in the nicest way with some steamy heat before we reached that shimmering glorious end.
Not as terrific as some of Mrs Sandra Brown's much newer suspense and mystery fiction but in all ways good enough!
I LIKE - these old traditional romances
The h initially refuses but is forced to go when a local suitor tries to compromise her in order to force her to marry him, and her guardians choose to accept his version over hers.To her shock, she finds that her host, Ben Lockett has passed away before her arrival and his widow, Olivia – an exceedingly cold and forbidding woman – makes her feel very unwelcome.
She also learns that Ben has another family living on his ranch – the love of his life, Maria and their son and his wife and kids.Olivia, the embittered widow is an ambitious woman who has an agenda of her own and wants the railroad to come to town at any cost.
But for Jared, Lauren is not as easily dismissed from his mind as he would like as her innocence and beauty keeps creeping up on him at the most unexpected of moments, his personal vow to stay away from Lauren a much harder one to keep than he thought.Lauren is drawn to Jared right from the very start, the cravings that hits her whenever Jared is around a foreign one to her but one she knows instinctively that only Jared can fulfill.

FANTASTIC BOOK!!! I love Sandra Brown, absolutely love get books!!! I really enjoyed this book, I went through an emotional rollercoaster with this book. I cried and constantly had a lump in my throat. Did I mentioned how much I loved it???! My only regret is how long I waited to get to this book. Why!?!!??!
#RitaBrown #RetoRita2 4/5He disfrutado bastante leyendo este libro. Jared me ha gustado mucho y, en general, todos los personajes están bien.He acertado también con esta elección de la Brown.
Overall rating: 5 stars!Triggers:Cheating: (view spoiler)[ No (hide spoiler)]Love triangle: (view spoiler)[ No (hide spoiler)]Sex with om/ow: (view spoiler)[ No (hide spoiler)]Intimate Pasts: (view spoiler)[ Jared (hero): Was described in the beginning as a player/manwhore. He definitely got around. We never see that in the book, but that was who he was. He was a crass asshole for a major portion of the book, but then he would do things that were so endearing. There are several times when he lea
There are several times when he leaves the heroine for weeks on end (like 3-4) for various reasons and every time but the last one, we get insight into his mind that allows us to see that Lauren was ALL he thought about when he was away.
Lauren (heroine): is a virgin  (hide spoiler)]Push/pull: (view spoiler)[ At fist it's both and then it's definitely more of the hero pushing away for a major portion of the book, but gosh when he gave in, it was magical.
I would have LOVED for an epilogue  (hide spoiler)]My review:This book evoked so many emotions in me I can't even say.
5 Amazing StarsThis book was I had the greatest pleasure that this book was my very first read and my introduction to the romance books many years ago and to say that holds a very special place in my hart is not enough.
I simple love this book and with every re read and they were many and will be many more to come i have the same feeling.
Like it's the first time.
Sandra Brown was the author who make me to fell in love with the romance books and i don't regret it.
She is really in class by it se
I had the greatest pleasure that this book was my very first read and my introduction to the romance books many years ago and to say that holds a very special place in my hart is not enough.
I simple love this book and with every re read and they were many and will be many more to come i have the same feeling.
Sandra Brown was the author who make me to fell in love with the romance books and i don't regret it.
One of the best books i had the pleasure to get my hands on it.
Good lord. Hidden Fires is definitely packed with the good, the bad, and the very ugly. The storyline isn’t really unique, but the characters, angsty drama seriously make this old book a great pick for fans of Sandra Brown.
Por lo visto, esta fue su primera novela de género (según sus propias palabras) y aunque no se le puede poner ningún pero ni a la narrativa, ni a la documentación, ni a la estructura, carece de total calidez e interés.
Se trata de una historia en la que a sus protagonistas les pasan cosas, las resuelven, y nada más.
No se profundiza en sus comportamientos más que cosas bastante básicas, que aunqu definen su manera de ser, no aportan suficiente consistencia para que podamos empatizar con ellos.
This book took WAY to long to read for me, if I'm being brutally honest.Normally I am SO OBSESSED with a romance novel that can get me away from the world and take me to my dreamy state of mind, but this book didn't do it for me.
It didn't help I was cramming for exams and was worrying my days away about how my marks would look, so my lack of relaxation wasn't totally Sandra Brown's fault!This book is centered in 1800s Texas, and we've got a preacher's daughter and a rebellious man.
Really not comparable to what SB writes nowadays, but still easily better than many other similar HRs out there.
Lauren Holbrook leaves South Carolina for Texas in hopes that Ben Lockett will be there to help give her a new life.
A life different than the one she had.When she arrives in Texas it is as Ben described it except for the fact he is not there waiting for her and she is kept waiting in the heat.
I found the book lagging in so many parts were I was like come on already.
I mean the fit in the book but the book would have been okay without them.Jared was a character I had to learn to like, he was bi-polor throughout the whole book.
A marriage of convience a popular theme of romance and this one has a bad boy twist. The bad boy is sexy, angry, and unwilling to love anyone- a real selfish guy who is the perfect magnet for Lauren a native and kind woman. Set in early 1900's on a Texas ranch the wilderness of the land and passion which of course is filled with torment makes this a fun western romance!
When you’re promised romance and find everything but.If forced to , I am pretty sure that Jared will choose cheroots (and whiskey bottles) over Lauren any day.
This is probably one of my favorite Sandra Brown books, if not my most favorite. This is a book that I can, and have, read over and over again and never grow bored.
4.5 stars

O que pensar de um herói que diz: Obrigado por me amar!? Esta frase é uma breve degustação de mais um romance arrebatador de Sandra Brown. Uma história cheia de intrigas, traição, cobiça, sensualidade e amor verdadeiro. O tema de fundo é um casamento de conveniência totalmente inesperado para a jovem Lauren. A heroína é vítima de um absurdo engano, de modo que não teve alternativa senão aceitar a atraente proposta de Ben, um texano bem sucedido, no sentido de que ela se tornasse a secretária de
A heroína é vítima de um absurdo engano, de modo que não teve alternativa senão aceitar a atraente proposta de Ben, um texano bem sucedido, no sentido de que ela se tornasse a secretária de sua esposa, para isto ela teria que ir para o Texas.
Logo, a heroína se vê envolta em uma teia persuasiva elaborada por Olivia, a fria e déspota esposa de Ben, e uma forte atração pelo seu filho Jared.
Garanto que a autora sabe prender o leitor durante toda a construção do relacionamento entre Jared e Lauren, a revelação de suas personalidades excepcionais, sendo bastante gratificante que ambos evoluem durante a trama, fortalecidos por uma paixão mútua de arrancar suspiros involuntários.
Call me weird but I like a romance novel that has tension in it and I enjoy them when the true feelings of love are not expressed until the end.
I enjoy a book where the characters fight their feelings and the books where the characters become intimate early on & express their undying love after the first time gets on my nerves.It also had a good amount of drama that was spread out well throughout.
I'm all about the steamy sex but I found the sex in this book to be muted.
This book was surprising. I thought it would be all hateful hero and annoying heroine throughout. Not at all. Oh the hero could be hateful but they did have some good moments together. This was a very enjoyable read.
Una din cartile autoarei care mi-a placut cel mai mult!
I love Sandra Brown's historical books. The end was pretty intense which I liked. Wow that Olivia was a piece of work she was so ruthless. Sunset Embrace and Another Dawn are my favorites of Sandra Brown's historical books.
Para quem não sabe, Sandra Brown começou a sua carreira como autora de romances históricos, sob vários pseudónimos.
Ganhei o livro no Goodreads e, para ser sincera estava um bocadinho receosa, porque a Sandra Brown é uma das minhas autoras favoritas.
Mas afinal não tinha nada que recear...Hidden Fires é a história de um casamento de conveniência, entre Lauren, uma jovem órfã e desamparada e Jared, um rebelde playboy.
E como é costume nestas histórias, Jared acha que Lauren é uma oportunista e Lauren acha-o um bruto, mas a atracção entre ambos é palpável.Gostei da história.
I'm not a huge fan of any male character who calls women sluts, drinks heavily and constantly, "accidentally" hits the female character twice, and acts like a child 90% of the time. Not the author's best work.
