https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/446542.Molloy
I had this book with me while at the beach.
The sea looked grey.First, I put the book in my front-right pants pocket.
Then I took it out, transferring it to my right shirt pocket.
Then I immediately pulled it out, putting it this time into my left shirt pocket.
I waited ten heartbeats and moved the book to my right shirt pocket.
Then I pulled it out again, I sat down and read it, from page first to page last.Then I stood up and threw the book into the sea.
Ο Μολλόυ,είναι ο αφηγητής της πλοκής του μονόλογου για την ιστορία του,που δημιουργείται και καταστρέφεται ταυτόχρονα.
Ο Μόραν,είναι ο δεύτερος ήρωας στον περιθωριοποιημένο κόσμο του Μπέκετ.
Μιας κοινωνίας που θεωρεί "ανάξιους νεκρούς επιζώντες" όλους τους αποτυχημένους,τους μοναχικούς,τους διαταραγμένους, τους πρόωρα ηλικιωμένους,τους δυστυχισμένους και συνειδητά αποκομμένους απο το μοιραίο παιχνίδι της ζωής.
Ο Μόραν,είναι "πράκτορας" μιας ανύπαρκτης οργάνωσης βίας,αυταρχισμού και μεγαλομανίας.Πιθανόν να είναι μια άλλη έκφανση του Μολλόυ ή τον περιέχει μέσα του,ταιριαστά και πλήρως διασταυρωμένα.
Δυο ψυχές που κρύβονται απο το φως της μνήμης και φανερώνονται τα βράδια της λήθης.
Στον κόσμο του Μπέκετ αποτελούν τον καθρέφτη της κοινωνίας.
Της ανθρώπινης φύσης που αποδιώχνει και καταδικάζει το διαφορετικό.
'The Trilogy' is generally considered to be one of the most important literary works of the 20th century, and the most important non-dramatic work in Beckett's oeuvre.تاریخ نخستین خوانش: هجدهم سپتامبر سال 2015 میلادیعنوان: مالوی - کتاب نخست از سه گانه؛ نویسنده: ساموئل بکت؛ مترجم: سهیل سمی؛ تهران، ثالث، 1392؛ در 255 ص؛ شابک: 9789643808891؛ موضوع: داستانهای نویسندگان ایرلندی - سده 20 میلادیمالوی در اتاقی ست، که مادرش روزهای پایانی زندگی خویش را در آن بگذرانیده، و اکنون او نيز گیج و پریشان، از خویش و از روزهایی که طی کرده، و نیز از آموخته های خویش، مینویسد.
For if I sensed the 'one star only' when I entered Molloy’s soft and limp world--or as the French would say molle-- as the sun, or the moon, guided my way through a reading that seemed like a purge for my literary sins, I began to see how, gradually, more stars appeared.
When the humour recedes and the anxiety comes to the fore, I feel like putting the book aside and go and look at beautiful things.
I certainly feel like taking some of those appealing grapes.
And they look like better alternatives to stones.
Beckett's absurd world,intertwined with eccentric humor, flows like stream of memories which are incoherent to each other. The narrative gets sordid and bemusing at times, but it's certainly worth to read and definitely something I haven't laid my hands upon yet.
در همین کتاب هم لحظه های پر از معنا از آشفتگی روح انسانی در مبارزه با زندگی و روبرویی با جهانش بود که خواننده را به تامل و اندیشه بازمیداشت....اما برای من این اندازه تاریکی و هذیان گویی فقط برای اینکه لحظه ای به نور چشم بدوزم قابل درک نبود.....من از این خوانش لذت نبردم و با نگرانی به کتاب دیگر بکت که در کتابخانه دارم چشم دوخته ام و نمیدانم که اگر میخواهم به زودی بخوانمش...."در این سرزمینی که کوچک ترین فراز و نشیب و ناصافی ای نداشت, ارتفاع چه معنایی داشت؟ و من, من آن جا چه میکردم, و چرا به آن جا رفته بودم؟ مسائلی هست که باید همت کنیم و به چند و چونشان پی ببریم.
Molloy es la historia de un hombre que busca a su madre.
Molloy es el monólogo de alguien que buscó a su madre.
Mmm. No sé.¿Molloy es la transcripción del monólogo de alguien que desea entender por qué el mundo se detiene ante sí cada vez que abre los ojos, y en cambio los objetos siguen su curso en cuanto los cierra...?Tal vez esto sea más acertado.Molloy es alguien que desde su habitación inventa por qué salió a buscar a su madre.Eso sí.
Es alguien que se cuenta a sí mismo su historia mientras la tiende a otros.
The narrative is interesting because of the twist: while reading you will have the feeling that Moran is actually Molloy.
How Beckett was able to think that the two characters, Molloy and Moran, can be the same person and Beckett twists your mind to believe that it is possible by the way of two narratives, using present tense (so you will feel that they are real and you are indeed watching them rather than reading them), that are totally differently told (at least in style) but somehow connected.I just have to give it to Beckett.
This is definitely one of the most amazing books I've had a chance to read. It's crazy, bizarre and yet very skillfully written and complex. Somehow it manages to grasp all those thoughts that appear and disappear within one second, thoughts that actually cannot be said, because they are more like a flash, then a clear idea of something. Probably it would be for the best if I read other 2 parts of trilogy and then judge the whole package.
Molloy (both the fictional character and the book) are strange, and I’m going for an understatement here.
He shall be added to my list of “Literary Characters we Love to Dislike.”I need to re-read Molloy—which is an activity I deem worthy of my time—for the sake of a [possible] better understanding.
Molloy might, perhaps, be a very pertinent example of l’art pour l’art, an endearing addition to the literary canon, a celebration of writing as experimentation, freed from plot constraints and the need to establish ‘meaning.’ But in the end I understood this language.
My main problem with this "Stream-of-Consciousness" brand of modernist writing has always been that although there are passages that explore niche and uncharted realms of the psyche in the most illuminating and unprecedented ways; I find myself plowing through noticeable chunks of somewhat unreadable material to get there.
One day I wish to read a Beckett novel without completely disregarding big chunks of it; one day I wish I can sit down and read a Beckett novel from start to finish and have a cohesive view on it as a whole; but unfortunately that day hasn't come yet.
"There somewhere man is too, vast conglomerate of all of nature's kingdoms, as lonely and as bound. And in that block the prey is lodged and thinks himself a being apart. Anyone would serve. But I am paid to seek. I arrive, he comes away. His life has been nothing but a waiting for this, to see himself preferred, to fancy himself damned, blessed, to fancy himself everyman, above all others. Warmth, gloom, smells of my bed, such is the effect they sometimes have on me. I get up, go out, and ever
I just feel like it has so many layers that pretending I got its meaning would be hyperbolic.'Molloy' follows two very different characters, the barely human, decrepit, lost and forgetful Molloy, the stereotype of the crippled old man who lives a life already finished and forgotten, and Jacques Moran, the obsessive compulsive disciplined detective charged with finding him.
From a man who knows exactly what he wants, orthodox and strict, an angry man bottling his rage, violent with his son, Moran follows an incredibly close plot to Molloy's, to such an extent that in the end, crippled and lonely, he does no longer remember, or accept, his reality.
I thought about birth and death, the body and ageing, fathers and sons, mothers and nature, duty and freedom.
And with such zeal that I am far more he who finds than he who tells what he has found, now as then, most of the time I do not exaggerate."on women: "Question, Have women a soul?
Answer, Yes. Question, Why?
(...) Yes, the confusion of my ideas on the subject of death was such that I sometimes wondered, believe it or not, if it wasn't a state of being worse than life.
So I found it natural not to rush into it and, when I forgot myself to the point of trying, to stop in time.
That may come in useful.""Not to want to say, not to know what you want to say, not to be able to say what you think you want to say, and never to stop saying, or hardly ever, that is the thing to keep in mind, even in the heat of composition.""Can it be we are not free?
It seemed to me that all language was an excess of language.""Not one person in a hundred knows how to be silent and listen, no, nor even to conceive what such a thing means.
شاید عجیبترین کتابی که تا الان خواندهام. مفهوم تلخی، پوچی، انتظار و انتظار، ضدمعنا و غیرخطی بودن به بهترین شکل توسط بکت نوشته شده. همه چیز کلافی سردرگم است. نحوه روایت گاهی مالیخولیایی می شود و گاهی بسیار منطقی. توصیفات و توضیحات طولانی و عبث جزئیات کاملا بی معنا و بی فایده. انتظار و حرکت کرم وار برای رسیدن به مقصدی که معلوم نیست اصلا وجود داشته باشد. انسان هایی که به هم تبدیل می شوند، یا تکرار همدیگرند و درنهایت معلوم نمی شود چه کسانی هستند. همه چیز از یک درد ناشناخته شروع می شود. این اولین کتا
مفهوم تلخی، پوچی، انتظار و انتظار، ضدمعنا و غیرخطی بودن به بهترین شکل توسط بکت نوشته شده.
همه چیز کلافی سردرگم است.
انسان هایی که به هم تبدیل می شوند، یا تکرار همدیگرند و درنهایت معلوم نمی شود چه کسانی هستند.
همه چیز از یک درد ناشناخته شروع می شود.
این اولین کتابی از بکت است که خواندم.
در نوشته بکت انگار نباید دنبال "چیزی" بود باید فقط خواند و متحیر شد.
از نیمه‌ی "مالوی" به بعد کم‌کم ذهنم در رابطه با کتاب روشن شد.
گاهی از درد به خودم می‌پیچیدم.
Molloy by Samuel BeckettThere's nothing to see here, fellow Goodreaders. No review or anything that would resemble one. Trying to write a review on Molloy is like trying to describe a bad trip you had on a rainy Wednesday afternoon. Best case scenario, a waste of time. So, no review here. Nothing to see.
Is there genius in the subversion of the narrative form, or is this just a cheap trick; a honey-pot for the gullible and the pretentious?
Like the works of Kafka et al., the style is frustrating, and the reader of Molloy is compelled to proceed solely due to the outstanding quality of Beckett's sentences, and the small (but brilliant) moments of clarity and insight into the lives and minds of the protagonists.
On some level, Molloy explores some pretty profound philosophical questions - about life and death, and the internal workings of the mind - but it does so obliquely, incongruously, at random, aimlessly and ultimately without resolution.
کتاب آسونی نیست ولی بعد از یه مدت خوندن و خوندن انگار دیگه عادت میکنی به اینکه قرار نیست اتفاق خاصی بیفته.
انگار تنیده میشی به متن و کلمهها و پاراگرافها مثل یه گیاه رونده کل مغزت رو میپوشونن و دیگه نمیتونی فکر کنی؛ میذاری راوی توی هیچ بودن کل ماجرا سهیمت کنه.
گوش میدی به صدای ذهنش و فکر میکنی توی کلاف بزرگی درست وسط جمجمهی یه آدم دیگه گرفتار شدی.
توی بخش دوم احساس کردم مالوی شاید اصلا یه آدم به خصوص نیست.
انگار مالوی یه وضعیت بود که براساس یه سری شرایط ممکن بود توش گرفتار بشی.
کتاب آسونی نیست ولی بعد از یه مدت خوندن و خوندن انگار دیگه عادت می‌کنی به این‌که قرار نیست اتفاق خاصی بیفته.
انگار تنیده می‌شی به متن و کلمه‌ها و پاراگراف‌ها مثل یه گیاه رونده کل مغزت رو می‌پوشونن و دیگه نمی‌تونی فکر کنی؛ می‌ذاری راوی توی هیچ بودن کل ماجرا سهیمت کنه.
گوش می‌دی به صدای ذهنش و فکر می‌کنی توی کلاف بزرگی درست وسط جمجمه‌ی یه آدم دیگه گرفتار شدی.
توی بخش دوم احساس کردم مالوی شاید اصلا یه آدم به خصوص نیست.
انگار مالوی یه وضعیت بود که براساس یه سری شرایط ممکن بود توش گرفتار بشی.
Degradation and vagrancy vacillate within the strange, surreal and at times ghastly world of Samuel Beckett’s novels-Proust once wrote that writers are in essence translators of their own inner consciousness and whereas Proust’s writing is inherent incandescent and poetic, Beckett’s is moribund and morbid, yet unique and captivating.
He is no less cynical than Molloy, yet at the start of the novel seems inordinately proud of his intelligence-however, this thing veil of self-assurance gradually disintegrates as his narrative continues, until gradually, both physically and mentally, he begins to resemble Molly, as the two characters and narrative streams coalesce into one, as the reader is caught in the hypnotic web of Beckett’s prose.
Oh, Beckett can write.
The first section (Molloy), has a weirdness that suggests great literature, and for all of Beckett's reputation for being an austere writer, he can be quite lyrical.
Excepting the last, the others kept me going, intrigued to see where Beckett was leading me.
The second section has another character, Moran, who is bit easier to follow, but not as interesting.
I suspect they (Molloy and Moran) are the same person, but saying so is my attempt to be concrete.
And I'm not going to work through the text, for the purposes of a review, to prove it.
"مالوی، منطقه تو وسیع است، تو هرگز از آن خارج نشده ای و هرگز هم خارج نخواهی شد و به هر سو که سرگردان
The interpretation I’ll run with is that the Molloy part of the book acts as an interior for the Malone story, running parallel within it on an unconscious level.
Molloy is therefore the truthful unconsciousness obscured by Malone, the unreliable consciousness.I think the book allows another layer to be added to include the author too, but things would get unnecessarily complicated and these explanations are not even that important.
داستان به شيوه ي جريان سيال ذهن روايت ميشود و ميخواهد كسالت، رخوت و رنج زندگي را به خواننده نشان دهد.اين كتاب دو بخش دارد با دو راوي متفاوت كه هر كدام از زاويه ي ديد خود به بازگويي وقايع ميپردازد.ارديبهشت ٩٧
I write them in a word document, I could have written them straight on Goodreads – the website asks you about your thoughts on book when you mark a book as ‘read’; and I always try to answer the question.
I will say 'Don't you think it will rain today?' and since the other person has only to tell his thoughts rather than whether it would actually rain - so it is an easy question to answer.
Jer Moloj na trenutke stvarno deluje kao vežba pisanja, a u rukama proziste kao što je Beket neretko i kao igra, te na trenutke za prosečnog čitaoca sa prosečnim deficitom pažnje, posebno jer se paragrafi mogu izbrojati na prste jedne šake, može da deluje kao „uh, šta je ovo“ sa čestim momentima „ček ček“, pa i dosade.
Ne mogu da kažem da sam sve pohvatao.
Ne mogu da kažem iskreno ni da je Beket sve pohvatao.
Ali na kraju ostane nešto, nešto tako mračno i komično i mračno komično da prosto ne može da se poredi sa puno drugih knjiga.
This is dense and confusing and all the things a lot of readers hate, rightly so.We know that Molloy's mother is dead, or maybe she's not.
We know that he writes reports for someone, which then are returned to him all marked up, but he pays them no nevermind.The second part of this book is the real bulk of the novel, told from the perspective of a private investigator, Jacques Moran, who is hired to find Molloy.
Reading Moran's story through internal monologue made me think of Molloy.
(hide spoiler)]As a result of Molloy's personal journey and it's elements, this story is disjointed, not linear in time and confusing to the reader.
It unwraps slowly and I'm still not sure I got it but I think I liked it.Here's a man who is trying to walk a tightrope of a normal life and who occasionally falls off.
What I think I got out of this: (view spoiler)[Molloy is Moran in a schizophrenic/psychotic state.
Moran tries to control his life because he never knows when Molloy will appear.
::shudders:: It was a bad week, when I was simultaneously reading Beckett in English in "Modern British & American Drama," and Beckett in French in a French literature class. ::shudders::
Tengo una extraña idea, es como si Beckett hubiera creado a estos dos personajes que podrían ser el mismo, les hubiera dado órdenes, (Molloy ve a casa de tu madre, Moran ve a buscar a Molloy), y luego hubiera desaparecido dejando a sus personajes a su libre albedrío, exactamente igual que el Dios creador, según dicen algunos, nos dio unos mandamientos o normas de conducta y después se esfumó y nadie volvió a verlo.
Pero esta idea mía es absurda, es imposible que un escritor no controle a sus personajes, solo la he manifestado como muestra de lo que le pasa a uno por la cabeza cuando lee determinados libros.

