https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/5355.The_Chamber
I started reading this book in December.
Why did it take me so long to finish it?
Because of the topic: death row, KKK, racism plus I saw the movie before reading it.
I am strongly against death row and I can't believe something so inhumane can be legal.
These things are so horrible and painful to read and because of that I've read it only a couple of times a month.
It made me feel so sad every time I read it.
It's a great book, amazing writing, but really sad.
You can't read it with a dry eye.
I thought this was one of the most impacting novels I have read for a long time. Grisham thoroughly explores the implications of the death penalty and creates a well-rounded and complex character in Sam Cayhall. You come to hate him and pity him, asking yourself whether he really deserves death and cheering Adam on as he tries to save him. A book I will never forget.
The Chamber, John GrishamThe Chamber (1994) is a legal thriller written by American author John Grisham.
It is Grisham's fifth novel.
Sam Cayhall, a member of the Ku Klux Klan, is identified, arrested and tried for their murders, committed in retaliation for Kramer's involvement in the Civil Rights Movement.
Sam's first two trials, engineered by his Klan-connected lawyer, each end in a mistrial.
Twenty years later, the FBI pressures a suspected associate to testify against Sam at a third trial.
Sam is convicted and sentenced to death by lethal gas.
He is sent to the Mississippi State Penitentiary and placed on death row.
“Look at me," he said, glancingdown at his legs. "A wretched old man in a red monkey suit. A convicted murderer aboutto be gassed like an animal. And look at you. A fine young man with a beautifuleducation and a bright future. Where in the world did I go wrong? What happened to me?I've spent mylife hating people, and look what I have to show for it. You, you don't hate anybody. Andlook where you're headed. We have the same blood. Why am I here?”Oh My God..Fantastic..
Grisham uses fiction to make a compelling case for the abolition of the death penalty.I wouldn't describe this as a thriller, or even a drama, the pace is painfully slow.
Sam is languishing on death row having been involved with the KKK in his younger years.
The goal is to remind those in favour of the death penalty that the people on death row are still humans, that some of them may be innocent, or at least innocent of the motivations that got them sentenced to death in the first place.
Grisham has achieved this goal.The Gospel message is somehow included in this book almost in its entirety.
This isn't one of Grisham's more popular stories however this book was a life transforming experience for me.
2)Do I truly oppose the death penalty or do I just "tout" that I oppose the death penalty?Good to read this again and be reminded of my own compassion and convictions.
Adam looking at the picture of Sam, his grandfather at 15, celebrating the lynching of a black man with neighbors and family - "He studied the clear, beautiful eyes of his grandfather and his heart ached.
He was just a boy, born and reared in a household where hatred of blacks and others was simply a way of life.
So when my dad recommended this book to me, and went as far as to buy it and give it to me, I was like...
But I decided to give it a chance because it's a book, and I like books.And my response was: Wow. I have read very few things as heart stirring and thought provoking as this book.
Before I read this book I would have said not me, yes, and yes, to each of those questions (respectively).
Wow. This book is good.
No matter what your typical genre is, take a break and give this book a chance.

4.5 stars How could Adam ever reconcile the past with the present? How could he fairly judge these people and their horrible deed when, but for a quirk of fate, he would have been right there in the middle of them had he been born forty years earlier?...If Sam was lynching at such an early age, what could be expected of him as an adult?...How in God's world could Sam Cayhall have become anything other than himself? He never had a chance. This is my first John Grisham novel, purchased for a dolla
(hide spoiler)]In many ways, this reads like southern Gothic fiction, which I generally enjoy so it's no surprise that I liked this as much as I did.In addition to exploring racism in the south, Grisham tackles the morality of the death penalty and also seems to be delving into the topic of "free will." For those reasons alone, I thought this was a compelling read.The argument made against the death penalty is a familiar one, that state condoned killing is cruel and immoral and doesn't really solve anything.
Interestingly, I'm reading one of his earlier books called A Time to Kill where he makes a moral argument in favor of a father charged with killing two men who brutally raped and beat (almost to death) his ten-year old daughter.
A well written book on the the subject of capital punishment.
"Can you avenge a murder with the death of the murderer, and that too after lapse of many years?" is the question that was subtly raised throughout the book.
From a legal point of view the book had merit as the story unfolds the defects of the methods that used to carry out execution thus showing a cruel side of the justice system.
In this light, the book can perhaps seen as advocating for the abolition of capital punishment.
However from a fictional point of view, it was much a socio-legal commentary than a story.
Too long, too technical (and I'm a lawyer). How do other readers feel about the loose end? It did make me think about the death penalty.
This is not the way I felt about this book - so John Grisham, you have earned your way back into my reading library.
The Gas Chamber is being prepared....time is running out - - Will this client be set free?
John Grisham takes you through every emotion - - liking this client and even somewhat accepting perhaps of what he did - - to hating this guy and wanting to pull the gas line on him yourself.
Can you, while reading, come up with a solution as to why this guy should/should not be set free.
This story has both the thrills and the heart and it carried through to the end.
It was an exciting read, and tugs at the heart at the same time; I almost cried in some of the scenes.I admire the character of Adam Hall, I wish there were more people like him in real life - those who would put the good of the family first, no matter what the price.
I also admire the character of Sam Cayhall.
It's a sad story, but there was redemption at the end.
(The demons, says Cayhall's daughter, Lee, in the book's final chapters, are never destroyed; they just go off to haunt someone else.) In that way, Grisham lets Cayhall stand as a symbol of the decades of hate in the South, the lynchings and racism, the crimes condoned, the horrors institutionalized, and his death is meant to suggest not that such an era has disappeared but rather to signal the end of a time in which no other choice was possible.
Grisham nonetheless makes his own beliefs clear, and any reasonable reader would have difficulty discarding them: Cayhall’s execution changes nothing, resolves nothing, serves no tangible purpose.
This is one of John 'S best deep hard political crime Thriller books of this century it's biggest point is the death penalty because of it whole story is a flash back. I am against the death penalty because in America it is disgusting that any person even if are filth that should not be keeped on death row for 20ys. This brilliant book all about waiting to die.My mother would not read it she said it was to upsetting. but that's why I recommend it so see both sides
This is a brick about an asshole on a death row. Almost nothing happens in this book. A book to a fans of jurisprudence, I guess. Because complaining in a nicely worded manner to the court of law is why these people exist. I really don't want to read about paperwork and sad people who are sad, because one man has been a giant dick. You know what, I'll save you some time and here's the whole morale, without wasting time on this 500+ pager brick - don't be a dick to other people, "mkey".
Loved this book. Always enjoyed Grisham, and even though this book originally came out 20 years ago, its still relevant. You can almost feel the horror of being on Death Row, knowing you only have a certain time to live. Good characters, believable storyline.....the end, almost made me cry which never happens! Please read this, I think everyone in America needs too.
I wanted to give this book a 5-star rating because it gave an in-depth view of what it's like to be on death row waiting for the gas chamber, but it went on too long and could have been more exciting due to some other plot lines. It was very well written and kept my interest regardless.
I loved this book. Never have I had such a distinct love/hate impression of a character before. It is long but you NEVER know how it will end. Its easy to finish it quickly.
For my written review, please check out the link below:Debra's Book CafeDebs :-)
Though I haven’t read this book entirely, it so far is actually quite captivating. As a whole, it has kept hold of my attention. It also has a hint of humor in it, too. John Grisham having a background in law has put his knowledge and experience in his books.  “The Chamber” is about a young, bright lawyer, Adam Hall, who joined the Kravitz & Bane firm solely to represent and defend his grandfather, the infamous ex-Klansman Sam Cayhall, who is in Death Row for the bombing of the Kramer Firm,
“The Chamber” is about a young, bright lawyer, Adam Hall, who joined the Kravitz & Bane firm solely to represent and defend his grandfather, the infamous ex-Klansman Sam Cayhall, who is in Death Row for the bombing of the Kramer Firm, killing two children.
Adam risks everything to give his grandfather another appeal and to learn more about his family’s dark history in the process.
No matter how racist or horrible his grandfather was, he is still willing to fight to represent and get his grandfather out of Death Row and give him a second chance in life no matter the cost.
In Mississippi, Sam Cayhall, a (former) KKK member, is on death row for bombing a building in 1967 where a Jewish lawyer worked; the bomb went off when the lawyer’s 5-year old twin sons were there and both were killed.
When Adam learns that Sam is his grandfather (Adam was only 3 when his father left Mississippi and changed all their names so as to not be associated with his own racist KKK father), he decides to head to Mississippi to fight the death sentence against Sam. This was good, but maybe not quite as good as many of Grisham’s others.
Never have i cried for literature in any medium than i did with this book.
I hated Sam for keeping his secret up to his grave.
I hated the fact that i was so deeply touched with this book.
That now death penalty made sense to me!
I cried with Adam and Lee and the rest who did not believe in death penalty.
Now I'm wondering if I could still find another book that will make me sob?
The chamber is one of my favorite books.
The author, John Grisham, has a simple way of writing where in all of his books he addresses issues such as law , politic, racism.
His books are definitely strong books that cover strong topics.
Slowly, he works out things until he reaches the truth.
But after finding out the truth, he might save his grandfathers life and end his.
Its full of suspense and definitely keeps the reader on the hook .
i recommend this book and rate it a 4.
This book was an emotional read right up until the very last page; I've laughed and I've cried. Whilst this story is fiction, it's all too real to me. Regardless of your view on the Death Penalty you should read this book. It will make you examine your thoughts and reasoning. Even if you're certain in your belief, just give it a chance, it really is thought provoking. I will write a full review of this when I'm able to, but in the meantime my thoughts above sum this book up. Well done, Grisham
As usual, enthralling.
I remember loving this book when I read it a long time ago.Now all I could think of was how the author must be anti-capital punishment. I hate it when people try to manipulate me.
I knew John Grisham's opinion on death penalty, having read The Confession before, but this book is on an entirely different level.I am not going to discuss whether the death penalty is right or wrong.
Grisham always chooses to show the flaws of the legal system, the inhumanity of death row, and the possibility that one of those Row inmates is probably innocent.
I especially liked the characters in Parchman: those people who are just doing their jobs, and who were conflicted nevertheless.
I sympathized with them, too.So, after reading so many John Grisham books, I still want to read more.
tidak pernah terpikirkan oleh Adam Hall, seorang pengacara muda berbakat dari chicago, bahwa dirinya akan dibawa oleh takdir keluarga.
aib itu adalah kakeknya, Sam Cayhall, narapidana yang terancam hukuman mati.
tidak jauh dari Sam, kamar gas, sebuah hukuman bagi terpidana mati seperti dirinya tengah menunggu setelah sekian lama tidak lagi digunakan oleh pihak Negara.
Adam Hall harus menyelematkan kakeknya, dan berharap rahasia keluarga dapat dibuka oleh Sam. apa yang akan dilakukan oleh Adam Hall?, apakah adam Hall bisa menyelamatkan Sam, setelah biro hukum sebesar Kravitz & Bane saja tidak mampu berbuat banyak?, mosi apa yang akan diajukan oleh Adam Hall?.

