https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/203938.Crusade_for_Justice
4.5/5 [H]e would say without qualification that he could not imagine a crime so great that it would need be avenged by lynch law in any country in the world; and what was more he did not believe that crime ever was avenged by lynch law without the lowering of the moral tone of the community, and without the introduction of worse evils than were attempted to be suppressed. Out of the many books I've tasked myself with getting to, this is one of the ones I've spent the most effort on. Not only did
While stereotype demanded a lone woman in the face of her work, I'm glad Wells had her family around her, who I hope sustained her when, once again, the white people had closed in their murderous ranks and the black people had withdrawn into their androcentric stagnation.
Although it was a well-merited rebuke from her point of view, I could not tell [Susan B.] Anthony that it was because I had been unable, like herself, to get the support which was necessary to car yon my work that I had become discouraged in the effort to carry on alone.
Wells went to England to help advocate against lynching and while in London she formed the anti-lynching community which was the first in the world!
Wells used the power of the media and wrote pamphlets in protest for these 12 men and the NAACP and Walter White helped form legal defenses to overturn the Elaine convictions.
Wells did a lot for African Americans to have some sort of justice in a time of Jim Crow laws and dangerous mob violence in the US.
Direct and matter-of-fact, Mrs. Wells-Barnett's personality is almost palpable on the page.
Known for her campaigns against lynchings in the South, she traveled all across America and to Great Britain doing the work.
As a side note, the book includes sources and extra information in the footnotes, which of course the academic in me loves.One thing that really got me thinking was when she wrote about her experiences speaking in England to raise awareness about the repugnant lynch law in the South.
In the preface, Mrs. Wells tells a story of a young black woman asking her about her life.
This is a really extraordinary book. It is a retrospective account of her campaigns through the south and in the UK to condemn and eliminate lynchings. I, like most people, knew well her life and work, but I had never read her actual words. She was an immensely powerful writer, incredibly gifted and seemed to instinctively understand what we now consider key media principles: keep coming back to your points, use empathy, back up your statements. Best book I've read in a long time.
This is the first book that I've read where despite all efforts and toil, the results were not satisfactory for the "protagonist". It's a shame that Ida Wells worked so hard to aid her race, and for so little change to take place, especially since it was the actions of others (mostly "allies") that hindered her work. I truly wish I had her work ethic, compassion, and confidence.
Black Feminist Theory Text, and a history of one of my own personal heroes. Organizers and leaders can learn from her unrelenting belief in the need to change the detrimental laws and beliefs of the day.
Upon reading this you begin to understand why Ida struggled to keep friends... she was uncomprimising on all levels, but a visionary crusader nonetheless. Her book serves as an excellent insight into the struggle for African- American justice as well as African-American women's rights.
This memoir is so pertinent to what is happening in the US today. Required reading!
One of the ten most extrodinary women in American history and I'd bet less than 1 in 10 peoples have even heard of her, this is a great story of a great woman
This. Is. A. Soficated. Book. I. Really. Adore. What. And. Amazeing. Woman. Thanks. Doris.
This book chronicles Mrs. Wells' own life as she wades knee-deep throughout the deception and racial tensions; tensions still felt throughout the world today.
Compiled from lectures, diary entries, letters, short stories, and other written articles from her underground newspaper, "Crusade for Justice" is a must for any human being - period.
Feminists, racial, equality, - basically anyone looking into details for civil rights should never pass this book.
It's one of the best books written about the trials and tribulations of humanity, and goes to show simply how little we've gone toward achieving true equality.
Ida's story was already fantastic enough when read by an outside voice. When you get her own voice telling you, with all the power of her character and her will behind the words, it's a thousand times better. It's a shame she didn't get to finish it, but on the other hand, I'm very happy at how much she did manage to get down on paper - particularly considering how much she was doing during her lifetime!
This book is a testament to one-woman's determination to bring light to the horrendous policy of lynching African-American's in the United States. She tirelessly travelled the world denouncing inhumane treatment of African-American's, dedicating and endangering her own life to shame the United States and their unjust policies concerning African-Americans before after and during the Red Summer of 1919. This book makes you want to qualify the people that we cast as heroes.
Ida B. Wells is seriously the most incredible person I've ever learned about -- brave, witty, and tirelessly devoted to justice. It's frustrating how many of her experiences and insights still ring true today.
Ida B. Wells story leaves me wondering why there hasn't ever been a movie about her life. Very interesting.
The book was edited by her daughter and only published years after Ida's death.Really an amazing woman - she was definitely a crusader against lynching, and traveled internationally even to spread the message.
But who would not be when your race is being lynched?She interacted with Frederick Douglass, Jane Addams, Susan B Anthony....so many other historical figures of the time.
At first I thought it could have been edited a little more, but I'd be concerned it would remove the sense of Ida's voice that carries through.
I now want to read the most recent biography, Sword Among Lions, to see how a historical biographer would revisit Ida B Wells legacy.
The life of a woman born into slavery who shone the light of truth on injustices no matter what lynch-happy mob was trying to run her out of town.
Inspiring and well-told, by Ida B.
Wells herself.
She was truly the...
My jaw is still dropped thinking of her friendship and work with and recollections of Frederick Douglass.
Imagine, her and Frederick running around the Chicago World Fair, demanding attention to the plight of black people despite a lack of recognition from fair organizers.
Imagine, Ida as a new mother, traveling the lecture circuit trying to stoke moral outrage against lynching.
2017 Reading List - A book that take's place over a character's lifetime.This autobiography of Ida B.
Wells is a great source of knowledge, not only on Ida B.
Wells herself, but on political climate of this country during her lifetime.
Through her autobiography the Black women's club movement, the suffragist movement, the founding of the NAACP, and countless other Black advocacy organizations is documented.
This is a worthwhile read for anyone interested in American history, particularly the era of Reconstruction and turn of the 20th century.
I knew very little about Ida B. Wells. She's now a hero to me. What an organizer. Such a big spirit.
Great read and learning to as well. Great service and a great story about someone I knew nothing about.
"And so, because our youth are entitled to the facts of race history which only the participants can give, I am thus led to set forth the facts contained in this volume," and that is exactly what Mrs. Barnett does, all while allowing us insight into her journey from a child of former slaves to the fierce crusader for Justice.
Ida states that this book is dedicated to the youth who know not much about their history, and I believe that by reading such an endearing tale is the smallest way we could pay back a woman who dedicated her life to fighting for ours.
The life and work of a fascinating and important American woman in her own words - I’m glad I dove in and learned more about Ida B.
Wells.
You can tell the work exhausted her a bit (she toured the country with a newborn no less!) but she was rightfully proud of her accomplishments and dedicated to the cause of raising awareness about lynching.
The book gets a bit gossipy in parts, and I was less interested in the constant tally of slights and misunderstandings.
I guess we know Miss Ida B kept those receipts!
Read some, but stop a slow read for me
Thoughts to come.
