https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6837103-the-kitchen-house
Kathleen Grissom had the raw materials for a rich and powerful historical novel.
I think Grissom slipped too easily into stereotypes and melodrama and never got out of that rut.
When you have too many tragic or shocking things happen to too many characters, it becomes predictable and numbs the reader.
I started losing track of what bad things had happened to which characters.
I should add that I read Alex Haley's Roots at the age of 17, which set my standards for authenticity in slave novels.
If you haven't set the bar quite that high, you may just love it.
I had sorted this book as literature on my shelf well it is definitely not literature but more cheap sensational stuff based on stereotypes.While reading this book this is what I wrote:"I am not liking this book.
It feels like the books I read when I was a teen and had nothing good to read.
Now she is going to make life changing decisions because of lack of communication.
Like in the cheap harlequin?romance books (here in The Netherlands they were (are?) called bouquet reeks.
I must say this is the first audiobook that I have thoroughly enjoyed and was captivated from start to finish.THE KITCHEN HOUSE by KATHLEEN GRISSOM is a very touching, powerful, gripping, heart-wrenching, and a beautifully written Historical Fiction novel which is set on a plantation in the antebellum South that grabbed my listening ears right from the very first chapter.The novel was told in alternating perspectives of Lavinia and Belle with a different narrator for each voice.
I could hear their joy and their sadness coming through so vividly which had me totally engaged in this story.KATHLEEN GRISSOM delivers a very descriptive and well-written novel here that I found was easy to follow along with the storyline and all the characters involved.
I have to give credit to the author’s wonderful talent for being able to render such an unvarnished, yet grippingly beautiful tale of life on a southern plantation in the late 18th century, and for using just the right amount of words and not overdo it on the descriptive, but instead keeping the pace of the story just so that it feels more like an action-packed thriller.
The author so cleverly evokes the story's time and place, that the reader virtually feels present as the the tale unfolds.
This thought-provoking look at life on a tobacco plantation in that era both shocks us and draws us into the souls of these compelling characters, the white owners, the black slaves, and the little white girl who is brought in as an indentured servant, with whom we "experience" her growth into womanhood.
Told in the voice of two of the main characters, it is easy to keep up with the story line.
Lavinia is the first voice, the main character, an Irish orphaned 7-year old girl brought in to live and work with the negroes in the Kitchen House.
If books can be compared to movies, this is a Lifetime movie.
Tragedy after tragedy occurs; we have unaknowledged illegitimate biracial children, sexual abuse of children,rape, sexual assault, drug use.
And the author also puts in the particular tragedies of pre-Civil War Virginia, including abuse and murder of slaves, mistreatment of slaves, the breaking of families by slave owners, starvation and overworking of the slaves.
And did I mention spousal abuse?And all of this is with the peculiar feel of a Lifetime movie.
The colors are too bright, scenes are just a bit too melodramatic, and the accents are just a bit off and you feel very uncomfortable about watching - or reading.
I tried on a number of occasions to change some of the events (those that I found profoundly disturbing), but the story would stop when I did that, so I forged ahead to write what was revealed.Antebellum history has been covered numerous times and from numerous angles, just like WWI and WWII history.
Stories that people have passed on in their families for years, and stories that are documented in museums and libraries.The Kitchen House is one of those stories and I discovered many things I did not know within these pages, even though I have read many books on the time period over decades of reading.
I felt like this sort of treatment of the characters somehow made the story seem more soap opera-like and a little flimsy.
I should have been bawling by the end of the book, but I felt that I had lost touch with the characters and was just watching the plot play out its inevitable conclusion.I also had problems with the short, occasional chapters from Belle's point of view.
They were too short and infrequent for me to ever connect with Belle as a narrator, and they just took me out of Lavinia's mind and then forced me back a few pages later, which was kind of jarring.
There is also hope, friendship, and love in this story.The Kitchen House is told from two points of view.
Belle, is the illegitimate daughter of the Captain, and being half-black, is a slave who works in the Kitchen House.
Most of the book is told from Lavinia's point of view, and Belle fills in the rest.
It's good to hear from Belle's point of view as Lavinia is so young and clueless and sometimes dimwitted.
Lavinia is taken in, arms wide open, by the "family" of slaves on the plantation and the Kitchen House.
Two narrators, one for Lavinia and one for Belle.
I should have loved this; 1st novel, Canadian author, great reviews, southern historical fiction, I was stoked. Maybe that was my problem; overly high expectations the kiss of death. I'll attempt to explain why I rated it so low:• Boring protagonist; weepy, passive women just irritate me now. I used to be more tolerant; I’ll put this down to aging...• I read similar books when I was younger, nothing fresh here • It's a pager turner but the plot was pretty obvious; good story that I wish hadn't m
I should have loved this; 1st novel, Canadian author, great reviews, southern historical fiction, I was stoked.
I used to be more tolerant; I’ll put this down to aging...•	I read similar books when I was younger, nothing fresh here •	It's a pager turner but the plot was pretty obvious; good story that I wish hadn't morphed into a period piece soap opera.
Honest, I searched!•	In all fairness, I’ve read a lot of great books lately, tough acts to follow.
In fact if this had been sold with a chick-lit cover I might have rated it higher.
The characters are nuanced; you come to understand the different individuals as having particular character traits and you understand why they make they make the bad choices they make.Everyone reviewing this book emphasizes the importance of the theme family plays in the book.
I agree it is a major theme, but for me the central focus of the book was what the absence of family feels like.
Any cursory review of this book reveals that Lavinia, the white girl living as an indentured slave in a Virginian slave plantation is an orphan.
I do know that there are kind, loving relationships in this "family" of black slaves.
Set during the late 1700's, this was a very touching story about Lavinia, a young white girl who has tragically lost her family during a passage from Ireland to America, and her newly adopted family of slaves who all serve the ship's captain on his tobacco plantation.
Working in the kitchen house, Lavinia forges a deep connection with Mama, Papa George, their children, Uncle, and Belle, the illegitimate daughter of the captain.
I will not dwell on this too much, as I did find Lavinia to be a very caring person with a warm heart and only good intentions.I liked the way this novel alternated chapters between Lavinia's point of view and that of Belle's.
Feeling isolated and confused, her fellow slaves open their arms to this sad girl, when she is ready, and take her in as though she were one of their own.In time she comes to accept them, but she is constantly put in the middle of deciding to choose her new family and being indentured for the rest of her life or for education and freedom.
This can be seen as a positive, however, because it intensified my engagement toward the book.I feel like I am better for having read this novel and that is pretty miraculous in itself.
All the white women in the book are weak and subdued; the black women are resilient; the white men are either good, or evil--no grey in-between.
The dual narrative is an obvious attempt by the author to show two racial perspectives from the time--but these narratives just become redundant, explaining what the other character already has.
I found this to be a clumsy attempt to address white and black experience.
As a result, yet again, the white voice is elevated above that of the black voice.I also felt the novel ended way too suddenly--it seemed like the author had a deadline to meet and just stopped writing.
To quote one of my book club mates, "This is just about the worst book I've ever read." I was so happy she'd said this, because it's about the same reaction I had to the drivel this woman published - and, yet it's been recommended to me by no fewer than seven people! Ack!  Kathleen Grissom started with a great story idea - bring to life the tales of children sold into slavery or indentured servitude in 18th century Virginia whose country of origin was not Africa. In the hands of a more experienc
To quote one of my book club mates, "This is just about the worst book I've ever read." I was so happy she'd said this, because it's about the same reaction I had to the drivel this woman published - and, yet it's been recommended to me by no fewer than seven people!
Kathleen Grissom started with a great story idea - bring to life the tales of children sold into slavery or indentured servitude in 18th century Virginia whose country of origin was not Africa.
I wondered if I wasn't just reading a modern day Harlequin romance.
ha ha!But.....YES, I liked this book!
Maybe--the character of Marshall could have been developed a little more from his childhood to his adulthood ----(however, I got the point of his complex-painful childhood and the way it played out as he aged).
However, I 'do' think the book needed better editing.
----Yeah---I DID.....because I was 'suck-in' ---taking the ride--- I could not stop reading until I knew how it was all going to end.Guess that equals decent book?, ya think?
(yes and no).
In this cast---mostly YES!
4 stars --yep, First novel?/!
Not going to waste time on a long review on this one.....My review can be summed up in "one word."Ready for it? Waiting....waiting....drumroll.....please......My review for this book........ is...."horrible"By the end of this book I sooooooo wanted to put a few drops of laudanum in my drink, to take away the pain of it all!Don't waste your time on this one...so poorly written..... predictable.... I only stuck with it due to being a bookclub selection.......
I adored this book. I didn't want to put it down and was excited every time I was able to pick it up. I got completely lost in the world of Lavinia. I fell in love with the characters. I can't wait to pick up the follow up book "Glory Over Everything". Highly recommend for those who are in the mood for historical fiction.
Lavinia lives and works in the kitchen house along side the slaves on the plantation and forms a deep and loving bond with them, they become her family.
Grissom is able to paint a vivid picture of the love of a family and the joy in the simple things in life as well as the deeply moving sorrow that affected many of the characters in the book.
I loved the two female protagonists, Lavinia and Belle, who narrate this story.
In my opinion 'The Help', 'March' and 'The Kitchen House' would all make excellent choices for book clubs.
It has been a few years since I've read The Kitchen House, however, what I remember most is that I wanted to like it more.
I've re-read many of the reviews by fellow readers here on Goodreads, looked back over the book once again, and I still feel just as strongly that it was a terrible let-down.
It is what we "think" the Old South was like but not so much what it was it.
If you read it purely for fiction and don't buy into the whole "mammy" thing, then you probably would enjoy it.
I received this book on the Goodreads Giveaway.
What a gift this book was.
From the beginning when you first meet seven year old Lavinia, an orphan first arriving in America from Ireland, all you want to do is hug her and find out where this story takes her.
It is a story of the true meaning of family, sacrifice and loyalty.
You will want to be a part of Mama Mae and Papa George's family.
I was amazed at what a sweeping drama it was for only 365 pages.
Kathleen Grissom packs a lot of punch into those pages.
This is my Book Of the Month- August 2016, with GR group- Nothing But Reading Challenges- Category: Anything Goes BOM This book was a challenging read for me because I found it overall distressing and depressing.  It was fine at the start but around 30% of the book you realize that everything that happens in the story is SAD. After that every-time I kept this book aside, I had to force myself to pick this up again. Another issue I had is the balant infidelity and casual take on sex. This is a pe
This book was a challenging read for me because I found it overall distressing and depressing.
The story progresses from 2 different point of views- Belle a Kitchen worker- is a slave on the plantation and a small Irish kid Lavinia- who is bought into the plantation and is working with Belle in the Kitchen House.One thing the book does teach is that human beings are adaptable and adjust to any circumstance.
But it was equally painful to see these kids grow-up and face difficult situations.Overall, I liked the story and the topic which it is based on.
I was recommended this book by Goodreads cuz I loved  ,   and  . There was a discrepancy between those books and this one though. THOSE books had not necessarily happy endings but at least they had hopeful endings. This one was just plain TRAGIC. I love my historical fiction novels and I KNOW most of history was sad, especially in the U.S. during slavery times, but I mean really???? Was all this misery really needed?!!! I'm not asking for flowers and sunshine and a Disney ending, but at least..
I love my historical fiction novels and I KNOW most of history was sad, especially in the U.S. during slavery times, but I mean really????
(view spoiler)[She became so stubborn about her love for Ben. She didn't even let him go when he got married!
It's also like she cared more about staying on the property and the physical house then about the lives of the ppl who loved her.
:D  (hide spoiler)] I liked everyone else.
While we're in spoiler mode lemme just say things could have taken a happy ending if the author had just let Lavinia marry that Will or whatever his name was.
Where do I begin on this review?I read the author's note and interview immediately following the end of the book.
She also said, "I tried on a number of occasions to change some of the events (those that I found profoundly disturbing), but the story would stop when I did that, so I forged ahead to write what was revealed."There are not many professions where one can openly claim to do what "the voices" tell them to do.
I will not read another book by this author.
The first 3/4th of the book was awesome.
I loved the early story of Lavinia at the plantation and in Williamsburg.
Later in the book the story has more downs than ups and can be somewhat depressing.
Of course, I think the author does a great job with portraying the time period, although since Historical Fiction is not one of my favorite genres, I had a hard time with some of the character's choices (although I would think looking at the time period were realistic responses).
Overall, it was a wonderful family saga.
I do recommend reading the author's notes though.
Loved it!
This was a spectacular read for me.
The story is about a white slave girl who becomes part of the slave family in the late 1700's.
It's about the relationships and loyalty that develop and the tragedies that arise during this time.
I love Grissom's style of writing - story is told by both Lavinia the white slave and Belle the black one.
It was disturbing in the sense that slavery is, but also how women were perceived during this time period.
A definite 5 from me - would not hesitate to recommend and place back on my to be re read shelf.
“The Kitchen House” by Kathleen Grissom is a powerful and gripping story of racism, interracial love and affairs, and slavery in the 18th century southern United States.
A gripping tale of humanity reeking of truth and realism, “The Kitchen House” is definitely a read that will stay with you.
The novel was told from two perspectives (Lavinia, the orphan, and Belle, the half-White servant) which really helps a reader to see the story from both sides.
The novel has difficult subject matter, and I wouldn’t exactly identify it as easy summer reading, but it will make you think and make you look differently at life as you live it now and as it was lived in the past.
The first element that makes this book different than others which describe the same era, is that one of the main characters here is an orphaned white child who becomes an indentured slave alongside the African-Americans at the plantation.
The second unique element of this book is a feminist look at the lack of power and rights any women (slave or free) had to control her own circumstances in that era.While "The Kitchen House" tended toward the melodramatic, I thoroughly enjoyed it.
I look forward to reading Glory over Everything: Beyond The Kitchen House, Grissom's upcoming book which can be read as a stand-alone, but picks up where The Kitchen House ends.
It is a hot mess.Every possible mishap occurs for our not-remotely-plucky and utterly clueless Irish lass of a heroine, just to keep the plot plodding along.
Her complete and utter inability to read a room or learn one darn thing about the time in which she is growing up is an obnoxious device to make the most insane things happen.
Somehow they were not insane enough, though, because I guessed every major event.
HOT MESS.Nothing terribly inappropriate in the book.
Either is possible.Edited to add: I just figured out this book is like a cleaner VC Andrews.
