https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/39799.One_Step_Behind
However, the mother of one of the victims refuses to believe this and insists that the police should be investigating the disappearance of the three.
But the evidence, such as it is, suggests that the three are in fact alive and well, and the police do not take the mother's claims seriously.The one official who does believe that something might be amiss, is Kurt Wallander's colleague, Svedberg.
Shortly thereafter, Svedberg dies under mysterious circumstances and almost immediately thereafter, it becomes clear that the three young people have indeed been murdered.Kurt Wallander now faces the most baffling case of his career.
So Mankell's decision to cast his One Step Behind killer with that mould, to let a dust mote debate float throughout the book about the nature of the killer, then end it with the killer being mad and evil, left me disappointed.
I had come to expect more from Kurt Wallander in Henning Mankell's books, and the early stages of One Step Behind had promised that I would get what I expected.
All I got was disappointment.What started as potentially my most favourite Wallander book turned into my least.
Thật ra trừ 0.5 điểm vì thanh tra Wallander oặt ẹo mỏi mệt lê lết thiếu ngủ kéo từ trang này qua trang khác chứ thật sự đây là một cuốn sách lạnh lùng và đen tối của Henning Mankell.
Một cái nhìn thấu suốt và lạnh lùng về những con người trượt ngã khỏi xã hội, mất đi cái tôi riêng khi đi vào một tập thể chung.
Đây là cuốn sách xứng đáng để tất cả người đọc nhảy vào trinh thám đen của Bắc Âu.
But my reaction to the fifth and sixth books in the Kurt Wallander series was positive on the character development of that detective and his colleagues and negative on the implausible villains in those books.
In 'One Step Behind,' number seven in the series, I found the serial killer credible and real, which made action scenes that much more engrossing and the suspense that much more chilling and nerve-wracking.
The murder of one of Wallender's colleagues and the skeletons in that person's closet added spice to the usual mix.
My interest was flagging (only slightly because Wallander is so interesting).
Henning Mankel has proved himself to be a wonderful crime novelist. His books create a wonderful sense of atmosphere along with razor sharp plotting. The great pleasure in reading Mankell is the social commentary on Sweden's changing society. His fiction is at least as much about evolving mores in Swedish culture as it is about the classic "who done its."
One Step Behind was my second Henning Mankell novel about Swedish policeman Kurt Wallander, and like Sidetracked, the first Wallander novel I read, I wanted to like it more than I did.
One Step Behind concerns the investigation into the murder of a policeman, one of Wallander’s colleagues, who was himself involved in a secret investigation of a crime that no one else believed had been committed.
Wow. This is a must read for all Wallander-philes.
It's classic, wonderful Wallander.
Ups and downs and dog tired through a difficult case, it's just a lot of fun to follow along.One of my favorite scenes is when Wallander learns that one of his coworkers considers Wallander to be his best friend.
Is everyone as isolated as I feel, Wallander wonders.
It's a classic episode of Wallander self-doubt and over-analysis.I have loved all the Wallander books, and this one may be the best.
(BOLD!) It's 4+ bill-stars, and it took some late plot miscues to keep this book from being 5 stars.
The tension and the depth of the plot from each book become more and more interesting. In this we find Wallander looking for the killer of a fellow detective who was looking for three missing students. Simple yet terribly complicated and dark. Wallander's private life is the back bones of the series. We see him struggling with health problems, his emotional ups and downs. The plot keeps you reading but Wallander's personal turmoils makes you turn the pages faster.
And as with "Sidetracked" which was Mankell's best book for me, there are virtually no clues.
Because there are very few clues, I had my own "intelligent" theory of who the murderer would be.
And finally, I had to give up realising Mankell had played us beautifully.Perhaps, of all the crime fiction I have read, Wallander is the most diligent and quite intelligent and yet he is the most human too.
In one way, he tells u that one need not be a 'Sherlock' or 'Poirot' to solve baffling crimes.This was my fifth book by Mankell, all featuring Wallander and it was one of the better ones.
Sve šta očekujem od dobrog trilera/krimića sa detaljno prikazanim policijskim radom i svim ćorsokacima i slučajnostima do kojih može doći u toku njega. Nekad je previše banalnim detalja poput potenciranja koliko puta i gde je detektiv Valander otišao da mokri, ali božemoj, vredi nekad i to istrpeti :)
Oh bloody sensational. This is nearly as good as it gets. Perhaps Henning Mankell has written better, I don;t know. This is my first, and I am super excited. I had a Louise Penny binge in early 2016. Seems like another binge could be on its way. Have already picked up 'Faceless Killers' next.Review maybe next year, when I get some perspective.
Und wie üblich steht er einem Verbrechen gegenüber, das eigentlich über Wallanders Grenzen hinausgeht.Wer Mankells Wallanderreihe kennt, weiß dass dieses Strickmuster zwar immer wiederkehrt, dass die Bücher dennoch unterschiedlicher kaum sein könnten.
In diesem Buch wird die Ystader Polizei von einem Geisteskranken auf eine harte Probe gestellt.
Minutiös plant dieser kaltblütige Morde die abscheulicher kaum sein könnten.
Es gibt rein gar nichts an diesem Werk auszusetzen, außer vielleicht, dass man das Buch nicht aus der Hand legen kann.
Seien Sie gewarnt, wer damit beginnt, hört nicht auf, ehe er den Umschlagdeckel zuschlägt weil das Buch fertig gelesen ist.Mankells bester Wallander-Roman.
A movie was made based on this book.From IMDb:Shortly after police discovers the murder of three friends, police inspector Wallander finds his friend and colleague Svedberg dead. At first believing that Svedberg killed himself, Wallander soon discovers links between Svedberg, the three friends and a fourth person, a young woman at a mental institution.
The next day Sweden's former Minister of Justice has been axed to death and scalped in a murder that has the obvious markings of a demented serial killer… four nuns and an unidentified fifth woman are found with their throats slit in an Algerian convent, while in Sweden, a birdwatcher is skewered to death in a pit of carefully sharpened bamboo poles… a Swedish housewife is murdered execution-style in a string of events that uncovers a plot to assassinate Nelson Mandela involving the South African secret service and a ruthless ex-KGB agent… an old acquaintance of Wallander’s, a solicitor, who is tied to an enigmatic business tycoon hiding behind an entourage of brusque secretaries and tight security, turns up dead, shot three times after his father dies in a traffic accident (or was it an accident?).
my first foray into the world of Wallander. Mankell takes the writer into the heart of the man whilst at the same time keeping the reader on the edge of the seat as the mystery unfolds. Mankell presents the human side of the detective - living alone, onset of chronic illness, failed marriage, connection with his daughter, his career, colleagues and an unwavering sense of searching for justice in the hope that he will find and redeem himself in the process..
To make up for the good weather, Mankell kills off a peer of Wallander’s, and gives Wallander some bigger health problems to deal with.
In this one, bloodwork finds an issue that nags at Wallander every few pages throughout the book, involving plenty of urinating.
But worse in this episode is fatigue.
There is probably more coffee consumed in this book than the previous six put together.
To fight fatigue.
Fatigue is described on average every few paragraphs.
It bogs down the story – it’d be half the length if the coffee worked.
In this edition, Wallander is ill but can't/won't stop to take care of himself.
This installment brings out some secrets about one of Wallander's co-workers and a serial killer with little to no reason for his actions is caught...eventually.
A man killing serially for no other reason than he didn't want to see 'happy' people?
The ongoing distrust and lack of confidence in the police - leading to changes that only hinder maintaining a modicum of a safety for the citizens.
However, for this series, it does keep getting better despite the downward spiral of society, Wallander's health and the powers of the police.
A couple of years have passed since the events in Book #6, which means it's time for another heinous crime in Ystad and for Wallander to once again bemoan the horrific state of Sweden. It's a good mystery, with all kinds of twists ands turns (although I, and probably most mystery readers, figured out quickly what was up with the picture of Louise way before Kurt did). The darkness of the murders this time contrasted sharply with the beautiful summer weather--a theme that echoes throughout the book: happiness is fleeting and horror does not have a rational explanation.
The characters come to life, and most important, I like them. One does not think of Sweden in terms of a serial killer, but this is what Wallander and his team were up against. Good suspense and enough interest to keep me hooked.
Cảnh sát trưởng hay rên rỉ về cuộc đời và sự nghiệp. :D
No falla Kurt. Buena novela, gran caso y somos testigos de cómo el inspector Wallander duda y ya le cuesta gobernar su cuerpo que comienza a mostrar más achaques que antes. Empatizo a morir con el personaje. Porque tenemos edades parecidas, pensamos cosas parecidas y vivimos experiencias similares (guardando las obvias diferencias).Aunque a ratos se hace algo extenso, lo recomiendo mucho. Más aún si eres fan y seguidor de la serie.
Un policial cuya trama es muy buena y te mantiene interesada en todo momento, sin embargo, en esta ocasión no me quedé conforme con el final, me parece que le faltó fuerza.
I am thoroughly snared by Wallender, his methods and his very existence. Mankell was most assuredly a master.
Mankell blijft voor mij toch de onbetwiste nummer 1!!Dan maakt het ook niet uit dat je tot drie uur hebt liggen lezen 😀
Henning Mankell is a excellent writer so much so that this is the seventh book in the Kurt Wallander series that I’ve read.
The detective Kurt Wallander is a character who I’ve really come to know and look forward reading about in every new book - to find out how he is doing and what current case he is working on.
Wallander is an altruistic and flawed character – a detective committed to his work, considered by his peers to be the best of the best.
Actual Rating: 4.8 StarsSoundtrack: To Be Decided “Normal people have nightmares in their sleep. We have our nightmares when we’re awake.” A charmingly realistic portrait of the struggles of policemen, One Step Behind follows the steps of a brusque detective and his colleagues, while begging the question: who or what can we truly put our faith into?Detective Kurt Wallander returns as engaging as ever, with detectives Magnus Martinsson and Ann-Britt Hoglund strong, worthy companions and confidant
A charmingly realistic portrait of the struggles of policemen, One Step Behind follows the steps of a brusque detective and his colleagues, while begging the question: who or what can we truly put our faith into?Detective Kurt Wallander returns as engaging as ever, with detectives Magnus Martinsson and Ann-Britt Hoglund strong, worthy companions and confidantes.
It all brings to light a realization that knowing about someone and truly knowing someone are two completely different entities; there is never clear evidence to determine what goes on within even the most faithful individual.Henning Mankell balances so many variables - action, intimacy, grit, suspense, desperation, agony - and they are all given power through characters' emotions, their actions, their relationships, and then their story, which is unfurled slowly and complexly.
Wallander soon realizes how little he know about the murdered colleague, an officer he had worked with for years.
You want to yell at him for not taking better care of himself but once he gets started on a case he does not stop until it is finished and even when he is done there seems to be little satisfaction.You quickly realize that things in Sweden are different than they are here in the U.S. Criminals can profit from writing books on their crimes.
Police in this book series often break into homes to look for evidence or criminals.
It struck me that the plot relies on a lot of strange details.
All the other characters have sordid secrets.
But it hit me that probably, for any book written in the late 1990s that attempts any degree of realism, this question is always going to come up.
I couldn't avoid wondering, would these characters (the teenagers especially) really be writing each other letters?Anyway, I would describe my reading of this book as 'Total Fluff'.
About the development of the mystery, it seems to me now that the construction of the plot relied on too many weird details.
This turned out to be one of my favorite Kurt Wallander books.
He has high blood sugar and ignores taking care of himself - as usual - but this time, I almost dread reading the last book in the series.
What will happen to him?The murderer in this book was a particularly cunning villain, stalking and posing his victims; killing them and digging them up a couple of months later to pose again; killing a cop (even though he was close to him) and going for Wallander himself.I'll miss these mysteries when I finally read FIREWALL.
He looks at some changes, notably women integrating into the police force in detective and managing roles, and sees all that has been gained, not what has been lost.
His father has passed, his daughter is on more solid ground and closer to him, his ex-wife is remarrying, and his long-distance love Baiba has ended the ambiguity between him.
The nagging question of his father's approval has been settled.
He finally feels open to something or someone new while retaining his core identity as a police detective.
