https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/978491.Art_the_Bible
In the last section, he claims that, "In one way, styles are completely neutral." pg 56And again, "let me say firmly that there is no such thing as a godly style or an ungodly style." He uses the example of rock music to support his claim.
So while Dr. Schaeffer admits that the style reflects the artists worldview, he does not believe that the style has an intrinsic message.I disagree with this position because I believe that it ignores an important fact: God created our world, and we cannot escape the fact that there is a message that is necessarily carried in the form or method.
I would give this a 4.7 if I could.It is a good introduction to a subject that demands further attention.
"...creativity has value because God is the Creator."2.
"Being in the image of the Creator, we are called upon to have creativity."3.
"The Christian is the one whose imagination should fly beyond the stars."4.
"He may have no gift of writing, no gift of composing or singing, but each man has the gift of creativity in terms of the way he lives his life."5.
"The Christian's life is to be a thing of truth and also a thing of beauty in the midst of a lost and despairing world."
Schaeffer lays out a theology of art that includes both great freedom and great responsibility.
We must glorify God through our art, he says, but that doesn't mean reducing it to an evangelistic tool.
Art has value because of who God is, and because of our identity as bearers of His image.
We also don't need to be afraid of fantasy or imagination.
"The Christian is the one whose imagination should fly beyond the stars." The last section, right at the end, spoke to me as well - that as Christians, our life itself is to be our greatest work of art.
"If Christianity is really true, then it involves the whole man, including his intellect and creativeness."These two essays were published in 1973.
For anyone familiar with the Scriptures, the first essay holds no revelations.
I appreciated his call to Christian artists to be honest in their work by showing man's brokenness and sinfulness.
But he also emphasizes that the optimism of the gospel message must be incorporated to make the work of art complete.
This does not mean that every work of art comes with a sermon.
It just means that the message of brokenness must be joined with one of hope in order to be truly biblical.
In Art in the Bible Schaeffer states “The lordship of Christ over the whole of life means that there are no platonic areas in Christianity, no dichotomy or hierarch between the body and the soul.
He is also clear to point out the fact that any artist (painter, sculptor, writer, or musician) makes a body of work that clearly reflects and displays his, or her, world view.
His point is that “No work of art is more important than the Christian’s own life, and every Christian is cared upon to be an artist in this sense.
A helpful read.
Schaeffer has a lot of very thought through and helpful things to say on the relationship between Christianity and the arts - and on being a Christian artist.
Schaeffer quotes the bible often enough, and the gospel is present, though I wouldn’t describe it as a gospel centred approach, and therefore I was left wanting.
Still, plenty of helpful stuff to take away, and I’ll be adding it to my list of recommended reading for young artists who want to think more about being a Christian and an artist at the same time.
A Biblically-based look at art and how the Christian should view and use and make it. I especially appreciated the sections that addressed whether all of a Christian's artistic expressions have to be clear representations of the Gospel or other spiritual things. This is a question I've wrestled with myself, and Schaeffer's case has brought me closer to a solid answer. I definitely recommend this one for any Christian artist!
God is creative. We are created in his image. We can and should exercise our creativity. Our artistic expressions need not be limited to the "religious." I plan to read this to my 10-year-old daughter who is very artistic. I want her to understand that God created her such that she can express herself that way, and that it has real value. We should not be dismissive of modern artistic expression even if we don't personally care for it. Times change.
Great. Listened to the Audible audio book version. In the first half of this short book Schaeffer examines cases where art is talked about in scripture. The second portion of the book deals with how to view art from a Christian worldview. Recommended.
Fantastic read on a biblical perspective of the arts - their purpose, use, etc. Includes not just art but music, writing - any sort of creating. The last few points in the essay (#s9-11) were particularly helpful for me in shaping some questions I’ve had (particularly in the realm of music).
Discussing content, Schaeffer points out that untrue and immoral ideas can be far more destructive when expressed in great art than in prosaic statement.
He also explains that non-Christian artists can produce art within the framework of Christian worldview (I think of Brahms, Thomas Jefferson, Chesterton, Scruton, et al.).
Am I not allowed to understand Schaeffer's worldview, given that Art & the Bible is the first and only piece I've read of his?
Schaeffer says, "Just as one can have propositional statements in prose, there can be propositional statements in poetry, in painting, in virtually any art form" (48).
Excellent. Quick read, Schaeffer doesn’t waste his words or get high and mighty. This is approachable and you don’t have to ascribe to Christianity or any religion to gain understanding or insight. Highly recommend. 5 perfect stars.
Schaeffer believes that there is no such thing as a godly style, or an ungodly style.
I'm thankful for the book because it gives biblical references for non-representational art, and for secular art, two things which I would not have been able to show in scripture prior to reading this book.
Schaeffer gives the Christian artist plenty of reasons to stand up and cheer, and then to go off and create wonderful works of art.
But he also gives every Christian individual a work of art in which they alone are perfectly suited to make...namely, their life.
A short and decent introduction to Christian aesthetics.
I would maybe recommend this for someone who's interested in learning more about the intersection of faith and art, or legitimately curious what the biblical basis for art is. I didn't find it particularly enlightening, but I've already got a well-formed aesthetic as a Christian who is also an artist.
3.5 starsA quick read (only 94 pages). The first half was so-so but the second half where Schaeffer gives some "perspectives on art" was good. I thought his 11 points were pretty spot-on.A great intro to anyone interested in theology and the arts. Quick, easy, thought provoking.
This book was pleasant to read and I learned a lot from it; however, I'm not sure I quite agree with all of his conclusions on the subject matter. It makes me very interested in doing more research on the topic.
We need this book to be read and put into practice.
A short, but very informative tract on the subject. A perfect starting point for Christians interested in creating or consuming the Arts
Book Review: Art and the BibleAuthor: Francis SchaefferFormat: SoftbackTopic: Art TheoryScope: A Christian Primer on Art Theory and Criticism Purpose: To give a Christian Perspective of Art and how the Bible and God view Art in all its forms.Structure: There are two fairly large chapters in this book.
The second chapter attempts to give a primer on how to evaluate and enjoy art from a few different aspects.What it does well: *Schaeffer has given a great reason for enjoying, making, and supporting Art for those who are Christians.*One of Schaeffer's main points is to show that God is the ultimate artist and we reflect his creative attribute when we create as well.
If it doesn't, they say, then it can't be "good" art.Schaeffer refutes this stance as well, arguing that a work of art can still be beautiful, whether it is a poem, song, novel, sculpture, painting, or film, even if it is not designed specifically to glorify God. Indeed, he says, a work of art can be beautiful even if its underlying theme is openly antipathetic toward God!Of course, the particular edition I read suffers only from the truly asinine introduction by a Mr. Michael Card.
How does one evaluate the beauty of art?
Schaeffer offers a compelling and clear argument on how one can genuinely appreciate art in all its forms and evaluate it well.
Especially in a world flooded with postmodern, abstract artistic expression, his clarity and succinct depth of thought is helpful.For the believer who is an aspiring artist or the Christian who is unsure about how to properly view art, Schaeffer can quickly give you a healthy grounding on how to approach art as well as a meaningful perspective on how to appreciate it.
A Christian should use these arts to the glory of God, not just as tracts, but as things of beauty to the praise of God. An artwork can be a doxology in itself.We should ultimately see all works of art in light of these four judgments: technique, validity, worldview, and suiting of form to content.
This was really good, and there are some aesthetic lessons that I think Christians have yet to learn.
"Christian art today should be twentieth-century art.
Art changes.
Language changes.
The preacher's preaching today must be twentieth-century language communication, or there will be an obstacle to being understood.
And if a Christian's art is not twentieth-century art, it is an obstacle to his being heard.
and the unique aesthetic moment in the Enlightenment that gave rise to Capital A Art.
It is brilliant, and I think largely because of his influence and this book, it actually isn’t such an issue today as it was decades ago when it was written.That being said, if anyone ever wants to see why it is great for Christians to produce art (that even isn’t explicitly Christian), or why we can enjoy art/music/etc.
(I attended Covenant Seminary where I thought they took a lot of Schaeffer’s ideas and have swung too far on them!).
But it cannot be denied how crucial Schaeffer’s thoughts have been on Christianity and evangelicalism, and it is seen when someone reads this short book.
This short little book is an excellent entry-point for thinking biblically about art and artistry.
I think it was originally two different essays on art, the first a biblical consideration and the second more focused on what a biblically Christian approach to art might look like in real life.
Personally, I kind of prefer Rookmaaker's Art Needs No Justification, which is similarly concise, but I think Schaffer makes some very solid and good points.
I also think it would be especially good for pastors to read this book to complement whatever approach to art they are working through in their churches.
A good, short primer on this subject with some clear insights.
Schaeffer makes clear that God made man creative and is interested in beauty.
He also lays out that Christians do not need to make Christian art, but that a Christian's art should be borne of their worldview and ultimately bring glory to God. A helpful distinction, and one that artists can grapple with over their entire career.
And finally, I loved his conclusion - everyone is an artist, even if they have no obvious art talents.
Our whole lives are to be a work of art that reflects our heavenly father!
Bem, acho que não há muito o que falar, né? O cara era muito bom. Muitos insights valiosos e necessários para um relacionamento adequado com a arte. Na primeira parte do livro ele faz algumas considerações sobre a arte na Bíblia, e na segunda, algumas perspectivas sobre a arte de modo geral. Aqui, ele fornece onze perspectivas distintas a partir das quais um cristão pode considerar e avaliar obras de arte. O livro encerra desafiando os cristãos a fazerem de suas próprias vidas uma obra de arte. Coisa linda!
A must-read if you are an artist or one who appreciates good art. As Christians, we have bought into the liberal idea that art is completely subjective and, thus, we have abandoned clear standards for what is good. We have also ignored the necessity for good art and abandoned that field to the world. It is time to take art seriously as Christ-followers and this book provides an excellent argument why we need to as part of our Christian calling.
An essential resource for artists who are Believers trying to figure out how to be an artist who is a Believer as well as Believers regarding the role and necessity of art.I experienced some frustration over the repetitive use of "man" and "he" to refer to artists and humanity, but don't let that derail you. Be aware that there is a slight bias against abstract art and the use of fragmentation.
