https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/115468.The_Town
It seems odd rating them individuality, it feels like they should just be one 600 page book, in which case I would give it 4.5 stars.Anyway, this was good, for the most part it wrapped up the characters from the first two books and we finally find out what happened to Suli (I'm not telling, though) as well as Sayward's father and Rosa the school teacher's daughter (interesting relationship there between Rosa and Chancey).Some things are left a mystery which I suppose is realistic but had I been Sayward I would have made it my business to find out about Portious' past.
And the author does this well.I think "The Town" was a strong finale to this trilogy.
Together they offer an astonishingly satisfying novel of the late 1700s and early 1800s in the pioneering world of the Old Northwest Territory (Ohio River country).
Readers follow the life of the unforgettably hardy fictional female Sayward Luckett from her childhood encounter with the densely forested Ohio River frontier (in TREES) to her early adulthood (in THE FIELDS) to her later life and the lives of her children in THE TOWN.
He researched the geography, history, folklore and language of the pioneering frontier of the newly formed American nation and transformed that research into a novel.
Nothing could top The Trees, but I was pleased with the way the series wrapped up.
As the trees are finally beaten and burned into submission, as a town grows up where once all had been wilderness, the old sense of community gives way to a rush of commerce, of getting and spending.
Much of the latter half of the novel revolves around Sayward's youngest son, Chancey who is something of an anomaly, a quiet young man, a bit of a loner in a large, gregarious, energetic family.
The resolution at the novel's close was touching and believable.
and the whole last half of the book had me glad it wasn't all about him, and wishing that he would grow up.
would I recommend you reading this?
Yes, you really can't miss the concluding tale.
Am I glad I read it?
I wouldn't have missed it, I'd have always wondered what happened to Sulie.
That said, Sayward is as steady as ever, and I think she's my favorite character in the series.
I had hoped Portius never grew on me, in fact by the end I had the feeling he had a winner in Sayward and she had drawn the short straw.
This series is realistic.
The last of the series. The Trees have been cleared, the farms have become successful, now it is time to move to town. I highly recommed this series. I will never forget Sayward and the Wheeler family. A perfect ay to learn history and appreciate the early settlers as you will never read any better descrition of their day to day lives.
When we first encounter Sayward, in the first book of the trilogy, we battle the paradox of nature with her: the cruelty and the kindness of it; the beauty, and its darkness.
Similarly, we explore those themes within this last novel, but this time battling with the paradox of humanity: whether we are better off as simple citizens of the world, struggling daily for our bread; or whether the work of the mind is the nobler struggle.
Richter leaves no doubt which he champions -- but I will not spoil the exploration for you!If you are looking for a good, old fashioned read, that engages mind and soul, and demands something of you, while entertaining you beyond measure, this is a must-read!
I was actually a little disappointed in the final book of what was otherwise a wonderful trilogy.
The new character of Chancey was a major drag on the overall tone of the story.
I believe Richter was doing this to make a point about how the current generation views past generations, but Chancey was so negative as to drag down the tone of the story as a whole.
Additionally, the character's issues were finally resolved in literally the last three pages of the book: not quite the catharsis I was looking for from such a negative character.
Conrad Richter won the Pulitzer Prize for his book, The Town, in1951.
Sometimes when I read a novel there are certain characters that are so interesting that you think, wouldn't it be fun to actually meet them if you could.
Sayward Wheeler is one of those characters.
She is a mother of a large family of settlers in Ohio in the early 1800's.
She is strong willed and loves her family.
She gave all her children a strong root system of Christian beliefs and a solid work ethic.
The story is wonderfully told by the author.
I give this book 5 stars.
Had she brought him up rough and tumble like his brothers and sisters, he’d know how to call back worse names than he got, and then the others would be glad to leave him alone." He rejects everything Sayward values -- especially the virtue of hard work -- which he believes are old-fashioned, out-of-date.
The more you give him, the more he’ll want and the weaker he’ll get for not having to scratch for hisself.'"Chancey is an unsympathetic character throughout the novel.Rosa Tench is the consequence of Portius’s marital infidelity with the town’s school mistress, Miss Bartram, who marries a local laborer, Jake Tench, prior to Rosa’s birth.

Don't understand why this third novel in the trilogy won the Pulitzer. Veering away from the admirably understated purity of the first novel, The Woods, it becomes melodramatic, ugly, and overwrought. Disappointing.
4.5 starsI loved this trilogy, and especially the heroine, Sayward Luckett, who is featured in all three books.
This last book is told from several points of view, and covers 40ish years wherein the Luckett/Wheeler family and their growing town Moonshine Church change completely from a forest settlement into the County Seat, and Sayward from a woodsy to the richest woman in the area, moving from her cabin to a mansion her husband builds in town.
I wish there were more books about the remaining characers, I'd like to see what becomes of her children, and especially the youngest, Chancey, who is featured a lot in this book, and is nearly the polar opposite of his hard-working, simple woodsy mother.
Okay, we have reached the heartbreaking conclusion of Conrad Richter's The Awakening Land series.
If you liked the cheery ending of The Good Earth, then you will love this one.
Seriously, the worse things get, the more noble Saird Luckett Wheeler becomes.
Is nobility the consolation for sorrow?
I hope Saird finds it sufficient.
She deserves better, don't we all.
I live in Worthington, Ohio, and our local history maven told me that Richter set his fictional town on the real-life Scioto River, in the Columbus neighborhood known as Franklinton.
I can believe it.
But the flinty Saird Luckett is pure Pennsylvania.
You join the main character as she nears the end of her life.
Her life and the life of the society around her has experienced mighty change.
In the beginning her family was one of the first, hearty souls to move into the untamed forest.
There followed the replacement of forest with fields and the eventual creation of a town.
The story engenders interesting reflection on the relative values ascribed to the different peoples and lifestyles experienced by the different characters, including a little girl taken from her white family and raised by an Indian family as one of their own.
"The Town," the third in Conrad Richter's famous Awakening Land Trilogy, is more than an interesting educational classic.
It will enable you to get as close as you can to living vicariously at the time our pioneering ancestors first began to migrate westward with the intention of settling permanently.
They began with the mindset of conquering the supposedly endless forest.
A few generations later, perceptions began to shift.
In this third book, one comes full circle through the main character's eyes.
Beautifully written.This series is on my top shelf of favorite books and has withstood the test of time.
After reading the first two books in the series, which are very nice, I was pleasantly impressed with The Town. It is a much more evolved novel in comparison. There are multiple points of view throughout, more interesting character interaction, and a more defined philosophy. I don't want to ruin it for any would be readers, and I hate to review by comparison, my advice is to read all three novels back to back to back. Reading as the writer develops is an intriguing subtext to the story.
I absolutely love this series. I read it over and over again, probably twice a year at least. I would love to know if anyone has any ideas on what happened to Portius in the Bay State that made him come to Ohio and live as a Solitary? I know Sayward thought it was a woman, but when Portius' father wrote to George Roebuck, he told him that the "that business" back home had been settled.Just wondering anyone else might think or maybe found out in research, etc.
I read The Trees, The Fields, and then The Town one after the other. They follow the story of one girl who grows up in Ohio after walking there with her family from Pennsylvania to the Ohio Territory. Rather a grown up version of The Little House in the Big Woods. Makes me thankful to be living today. The pioneers were very strong in body and mind.
I read this trilogy in 1979. I know that most of you were too young to even read that year but I highly recommend them. The author was able to bring to life what life was like for the women that helped to settled this country. As I was struggling with raising my own family, it helped to remember just how easy my life really was. Enjoy!
Simple story of a pioneer woman Sayward Wheeler and her family set in growing town of Ohio describes many aspects of daily life with a combination of history and the traditional beliefs, customs and stories of a community with some memorable scenes, e.g. sleighing party.
The final novel of "Awakening Land" series in which Sayward completes her mission and lives to see her family grow up. "The Trees" has progressed into "The Fields," and, finally, "The Town." I can't recommend these books any more highly.t
Still good, but sad a little bit. I didn't like Chancey very much as a main character, and I had a hard time relating to him. But I still loved Sawyard and her family!!
An incredibly under-rated trilogy in classic American literature. A strong female character with class, sense, and power.
See review of The Trees, first book in Awakening Land Trilogy. Well worth reading. Food for the mind and soul. Have reread many times and enjoy again and again.
It is interesting to see this period of time from a female pioneer's perspective and I feel like the racial tension was dealt with sympathetically.
In the end, if you are reading the Pulitzer's like I am, it's on your list and you really do have to read all three of them because they are cyclical with characters that both leave or as they develop.
If you are interested in the concept but reading 900+ Pages seems like a bore, they made a mini-series in the 1970s with Elizabeth Montgomery from Bewitched that also feels dated but is fairly well done.
To me, The Town departs rather drastically from the voice presented in The Trees and The Fields but in a way that fits the story perfectly.
It was also refreshing to read a story that included a strong female main character.
The argument between the young Wheelers and the old Wheelers about how hardwork and toil impacts a person’s life was rather fascinating to read and think about [though it's rather clear what side the author was on ;) ].I highly recommend this one but only if you read the first two as they help set the stage.

The last book in the trilogy, this one was just heartbreaking.
But I will miss Sayward Luckett, and after some time has gone by, I am sure I will want to read at least the first two books again.
At the moment, I don't feel I ever want to re-read this one, but I bet that will change and I'll feel the need to read it again, too.
Many great characters come and go in the story, but Sayward and Portius at the center are what keep you reading, and even after Portius is gone, Sayward remains worth knowing right up to the end.
Follows at various times the matriarch of the family, Sayward, a seemingly simple middle-aged woman with surprising depths who once owned all the land now occupied by her town, Portius, her eccentric and hard-drinking husband, and her youngest child Chancey, who goes from a sickly toddler whose survival is a miracle to a spoiled young man lacking in gratitude.
It started slowly but began to build to something that was at the same time suspenseful and lyrical.In reading it, I had not realized that it was part of a trilogy that was beloved in the past though somewhat neglected these days.
Along the way the story explores other dimensions of human existence such as: the effects of adultery on families; how people deal with inequality of wealth among neighbors; nostalgia for olden times by an older generation and the rebellion of younger people from their parents beliefs; the tendency of secrets to perniciously mold the lives of others and finally the difficulties children have with viewing their parents in an honest light.I only started reading these books because they are on a list I am trying to complete but I found myself pulled into the story completely from an early point.
