https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/294459.Miss_Lonelyhearts_The_Day_of_the_Locust
Miss Lonelyhearts, a novella that made the "1001 Books You Must Read" list, is a type of companion piece to Salinger's maudlin, crude, symbolic works about humanity.
Los Angeles is a place where "people come to die." It is with this attitude, infused in the five or so interrelated vignettes, that we discover that the lost souls are selfish, indulgent, materialistic.
There are cock fights and visits to Zelsnick-like sets, there are dreamers & immigrants, there is even a climax at, very fittingly, a movie premiere.
Though "Locust" (oddly named) is a masterpiece, "Lonelyhearts" seems unfulfilled and too trite.
(Note: he was only ever referred to as Miss Lonelyhearts, which makes me think we’re meant to know him as a 2-dimensional everyman.) His editor knew how hopeless these advice-seekers were, so it was a cruel act on his part to assign Miss L, a man with shaky mettle and faith as it was, to the task.
It was also a time when the word “gay” was used often and differently.We’ve all seen reviews where the place is identified as a character.
West got to know this world as a screenwriter so it seemed to ring true.
--The Day of the Locust--Miss Lonelyhearts
Do you know what's wrong with this New Direction edition of West's most famous two little novels? Nothing. It's a perfect book. And it's a work that never gets old. The ultimate Hollywood nove (Day of the...)l that is almost spiritual. West got it right away and very few could match his greatness or snickering. A snicker that becomes passionate.Miss Lonelyhearts is awesome beyond one's favorite mustard. It's a nasty little book that still stings. Hail West!
This book has weighed on my mind in a way others haven’t in a while.
My finger hovered above the two and four stars button far too long due to my struggle with content versus writing style.
CONTENT: I’m just floored by the amount of crude and offensive material this author covered in such a nonchalant way.
Abrupt topic introductions that led me to either reread to make sure what I perceived as being written was in fact what he had written, or to close the book with feelings of repulsion and question if I even wanted to continue.
I really struggled with weighing the then versus now, and allowing the author leeway because the times have indeed changed.
If one moral prevails throughout the two novels that Nathanael West has become famous for, it would probably be that, even in the dreariest of times, people can find salvation or refuge from suffering through art.
Let's consider the other characters, the obvious wretches of West's depression-era hell.There's Shrike, Miss Lonelyheart's boss.
This is a man who knowingly lets Miss Lonelyhearts go to bed with his wife, merely so he can humiliate him in an emotionally naked situation.
So then maybe it's the sideshow-like characters of West's bleak universe that really matter; the grotesqueries, the one's that we initially ignored because we felt that their flaws and shortcomings were far too despicable and obvious.
Dear Miss Lonelyhearts - I am in such pain I dont know what to do sometimes I think I will kill myself my kidneys hurt so much.
My husband thinks no woman can be a good catholic and not have children irregardless of the pain.
I was operatored on twice and my husband promised no more children on the doctors advice as he said I might die but when I got back from the hospital he broke his promise and now I am going to have a baby and I don't think I can stand it my kidneys hurts so much.
I cry all the time it hurts so much and I dont know what to do.Yours respectfullySick-of-it-all
I re-read these two short novels in a fit of sentimentality.
Every day, we'd dutifully appear for class, and he would show up a few minutes late, looking like he had just spent all night running around in a tizzy.
I liked the class a lot, despite the lack of structure.
We read Day of the Locust, a novel about the people who aspired to be part of the early movie industry, and afterwards, I devoured the rest of West's writing on my own time.
Do I like the people in these books?
It is so very world-weary, its beauty melancholy and even mundane.
Miss Lonelyhearts' eponymous character tries to beat the despair of reading people's problems for a living and...sort of, almost, succeeds.
But it's not completely a downer, because Nathanael West is so damn funny!
But he had nothing to worry about, for Shrike would never fire him.
He was too perfect a butt for Shrike's jokes.
Suicide, it is only reasonable to think, must defeat this purpose.'(Hopefully this excerpt is not only funny to people who are clinically depressed.)If I had the space, I would quote the entire book.
False signs in other words, like whoopee cushions that someone (God, we hope, or think we hope) has left under the various sofa-cushions of human existence.
But what is the difference between a sign and a false sign?
You cannot imagine anything escaping; but a Holocaust perpetuated against lego men (that is, against characters who we feel are being set up only to be knocked down, the game weighted unfairly) ends up being, not terrible (or, not only terrible), but funny: as if god appeared as some sort of gigantic praying mantis or clown, and yet critically did not realize that this was, perhaps, a less than dignified form to take.
Like god's the one who doesn't get it.
It wasn't just a metaphor -- and even if it was, we might as well unpack it.The other stars of these books are their cities -- New York in Miss Lonelyhearts and Los Angeles in Day of the Locust.
West writes of Los Angeles at a time when there was a real symbiosis between the city itself and Hollywood - both were lawless and lovely then, coarse and brutal; they shared an easy economy between mechanical lenses and streets; to see one was to see the other.
Like all black humor, these works are informed by a serious and intensely troubled view of man's existence -- specifically our contemporary existence where advertising tries to sell something -- a shaving lotion, a film, vitamins -- by molding our ideas of what we should be, physically, emotionally and spiritually.
To give one example, at the beginning of Miss Lonelyhearts, a girl writes to an advice column in a newspaper:I am sixteen years old now and I don't know what to do and would appreciate it if you could tell me what to do.
So far I've only read Miss Lonelyhearts. What an odd little story. Sex and booze and a Christ fixation and a melancholy madness brought on by immersion in the woes of complete strangers. I'm not sure what the point is, except to say that if you set out to fool or poke fun at others, you may find that the joke's on you. I've satisfied my curiosity, anyway. I don't know that Nathanael West is the author for me. I'll have to try one more just to be sure.
I rebelled and struggled against reading these two stories, and had to force myself to press on nearly all the way through.
These stories are populated, by bitter, disenfranchised men who fantasize about rape as an appropriate corrective to "uppity" women.
They are certainly not the source of their own ugliness -- all are struggling in a Depression-era world -- but still, the first scene in which a group of men in a bar approvingly discuss a gang rape I wanted to throw this book across the room.
But would I recommend this book to get to that scene?
i've always loved a black comedy.
some of this is hard to take - the plight of miss lonelyhearts and his conflicts with the human condition, misery and religion would be unbearable to read if he had a real name.
miss lonelyhearts isn't a likable man.
it's something i notice in books that followed for years after - a strain of blackness that seems to start with this book and then wind through countless other authors.
As West is considered a "name" writer, thought I'd try this one.Read Day of the Locust first, which turned out to be a good idea.
A.), as well as finding the characters interesting for the most part, although The Cowboy and The Mexican in the final chapters made the ending drag out.
Between 3 and 4 stars.Miss Lonelyhearts, on the other hand, never really engaged me.
Moreover, there wasn't a strong setting of Depression-era New York.
By the end, I didn't have an idea of what I'd read for certain, and wasn't much bothered by that.
Between 2 and 3 stars.Now I can say I've read West.
I think this says a lot about what sort of novel(la)s Miss Lonelyhearts and The Day of the Locust are.
The concept is interesting: "Miss Lonelyhearts" writes an advice column for the New York Post-Dispatch.
However, I found West's execution a little heavy-handed; he's a clever writer, but none of his characters -- not even Miss Lonelyhearts -- feel convincing.
There are also a bunch of not-so-subtle racial jabs, mostly in the form of conversational remarks but also in the form of Miguel, the novel's only non-white character who conveniently takes on the mantle of lustful-sexual-predator-who-lacks-the-restraint-that-our-good-white-people-have.
I really enjoyed "The Day of the Locusts." Any book that features a drunk dwarf in the first ten pages is ok by me. His clean, realistic style, crossing into deep psychological insight, makes me wonder what else Mr. West would have written had he not bit the bullet so early."Miss Lonelyhearts" didn't do as much for me, I must admit. Maybe I should read it again. Anyway, add Mr. West to the list of "why isn't this guy more popular?" authors. Mr. West, meet Mr. Sherwood Anderson.
In the late thirties he came to Hollywood and trained his literary camera not on the movie studios or the stars, but on the "common people" who, as West's central character in The Day of the Locust states, "came to California to die." West, through this character, wrote: "All their lives they had slaved at some kind of dull, heavy labor, behind desks and counters, in the fields and at tedious machines of all sorts, saving their pennies and dreaming of the leisure that would be theirs when they had enough.
Lonelyhearts: 2 stars.Locust: One of the rape-iest books I've ever read, as it features an assortment of male character preoccupied with a sex worker named Faye, who is as alluring to them as she is unattainable.
The parable of an advise columnist being unable to deal with some of life's hardship, and hardship as entertainment, are great ideas for exploration, and Miss Lonelyhearts is endearing enough just for the sadness and hopelessness he feels for these people.
This novella has a lot of the same misogyny as Locust, but with a much bigger idea and more interesting execution to dilute it.
Great powerful little book.Day of the Locust is a classic California novel full of wonderful little surprises, not the least of which is a supremely repressed, awkward character named Homer Simpson.
Seems misery, desperation, sex and violence are the great themes of early century american fiction (Steinbeck, Faulkner, West, Miller).
Was left wondering if these "people who come to California to die" are meant to be the title's "locusts", the ending would seem to point to the biblical plague interpretation.Not crazy about some stunts he pulls with his endings, but his books seem more important and deserving of attention than Hemingway's and perhaps even Fitzgerald's.
It's possible to write compelling fiction revolving around despicable characters in hopeless situations.
Authors who do so successfully allegorize the morally bankrupt, unlikable world in the lives of their characters, with a healthy dose of humor and cynicism.
But there's a thin line between writing sly commentary on our hopeless world and simply describing it.
Unfortunately, Nathanael West falls short in Miss Lonelyhearts & The Day of the Locust.
West's knack for unique images and descriptions save the novellas from being complete downers, though -- the "futile curl" of partygoers advancing and retreating from an exciting newcomer; a starlet "shiny as a new spoon"; and a sky that is "canvas-colored and ill-stretched" offer a little life among the otherwise gloomy proceedings.
I have a professor/novelist friend from Denmark who considers books like lovers.
If you are reading a book the first question he will ask you is, "So...was it a good lover?
did it make you breakfast in the morning and rub your back or did it leave a note and take your money out of your wallet?" West was good.
real good.
I've been reading many plays from this era and it makes them seem elementary compared to West.
Funny, dark, bleak, bizarre and yet seemingly fitting...ugh...buy me a beer and i'll tell you more about it.just read him.
West sometimes gets lumped along with his contemporary John Steinbeck - two writers of the Great Depression. But West had the more original view of America, and expressed it with an acidic clarity. He saw, as few others could, that hysteria was the price of the American dream. When the crowd in The Day of the Locust turns violent, it's cathartic for West's entire oeuvre.An original voice that died too young.
The later novel far more successfully dramatizes the earlier novella's themes, demonstrating them through character and incident rather than asserting them; also, the proto-postmodern space of Hollywood, which is the occasion for so much of West's brilliant descriptive writing, is a superbly persuasive "objective correlative" (I am feeling old-fashioned today) for the spiritual emptiness of modern life.
It was so helpless and unselfish that it made her feel mean and cruel, no matter how hard she tried to be kind.This is impressively penetrating psychology, but West really outdoes himself in his descriptions of Hollywood, a kind of artificial paradise where viciously bored Americans have "come to die." In one bravura chapter, Tod seeks Faye throughout a sequence of film sets, moving through all the adjacent faked epochs they represent, until a recreation of Waterloo ends in real destruction when the set collapses.
Especially in Miss Lonelyhearts, he looks at the world with a cynical view point.
In The Day of the Locust Tod Hackett looks at the people in Hollywood with a more optimistic point of view, except those that he said, “came to California to die”.
Since the story takes place around the time of the Depression, most of the people who write to Miss Lonelyhearts have awful stories to tell and there doesn't seem like they have a lot of hope.
Especially the way Nathaniel Weinstein creates the characters to be loved and hated at the same time.
He mocks the people who come to him for help, while he's an even sadder sap who hangs out with men who discuss why women should be gang raped.The Day of the Locust takes place in 1930s Hollywood, and I was able to get some research notes out of that--thank goodness, this thing wasn't a total waste of time!
(Note: don't be Tod.) And yet he keeps getting turned down by her, and calls her a slut a few times, too.Really, these two novels remind of when I read slush for a magazine, and how so many stories were of men taking revenge on shrewish women.
Nathanael West was a master of tense humor, finding laughs even in the bleakest of settings.
Both novels (more properly called novellas) in this set are perfect examples of his skill.
These stories of a sad advice-to-the-lovelorn columnist and people on the gritty edge of Hollywood are rich with West's worldview of a chaotic world going to madness.
From the first page, where he speaks of letters seeking advice, "all of them alike, stamped from the dough of suffering with a heart-shaped cookie knife," you will know you are in good hands.
Taken together these tales offer a bracing vision of a world of sad, compelling people searching for something just out of reach.
Miss Lonelyhearts – 4.5The Day of the Locust – 4.0
Fragmented and incondite. Hollow, superficial and stereotypical characters. Although there are some brilliant metaphors, they couldn't turn my reading experience into pleasure.
