https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1251001.The_Love_Child
I LOVE THIS SERIES!!!!
Am I the only one who doesn't like Harriet Main?
I so don't want to read anymore about her, but it seems she is to be a central figure anyway.
There is, of course, a rape that takes place in this book as Carr is wont to do in her books.
I do like how the aftermath was handled rather than the way it was done in books two, three and four.
I do sometimes wonder at the kind of men that were in Carr's life.
I don't understand her interest in men like that.
A fabulous book about the lovely Priscilla Eversleigh.
She sought men out early in life and when a young man comes along that is wanted by the government she and her brother hide him so they can get him to safety with her cousins mother.
Harriet takes the baby Carlotta to her home (because she is known as HER child) while Priscilla is still hung up in intrigue.
When Priscilla's dad gets involved in a plot to overthrow the King, Beau offers to save her dads life in exchange for a night with her.
Priscilla has to tell everyone Carlotta is her daughter and about sleeping with Beau to save her dads life.
One of my absolute favorites of this series. I have re-read it countless times. First discovered these books as a young teenager and instantly fell in love. The love I have of these books is completely related to the fact that these were my first grown up books I was actually allowed to read (my Grandma loaned them to me behind my folks' back - yeah Grandma!)
Another great book in the series with Harriet Main getting involved in the lives of the central characters. Plenty of historical facts interwoven into the plot, and I love young love. All of the characters are interesting and the villains are just as they should be-despicable.
Love Child, Philippa Carr (pseudonym of Mrs. Eleanor Hibbert, and other pseudonyms include Victoria Holt and Jean Plaidy), HB-B, @ 1978, 1987. Historical fiction set in Restoration England about Charles II and James. Okay.
I am rereading these books, and they all fit together so I want to read them all. I like the suspense, intrigue and romance in these books, and getting to know a little more about England, too.
Another book I stole from my mom's library as a teen. Now out of print. This was my first romance/historical fiction book.
book 6
Ok. 1600s England. Post Bloody Mary. Romance. Plot not riveting.
This series is liberally doused with crazysauce and I love it.
If I had to pick one favorite of this series, it would probably be this one!
I didn't think I would like this book, but it was a lot more interesting than I thought it would be.
So her vivid Aunt Harriet takes her to Italy where she gives birth and Harriet cones back claiming the baby (Carlotta) is hers.
Then there's Titus Oakes and the Popish Plot, who / which figures throughout the book, and Priscella's father, Carleton, is involved.
Cristabel, the illegitimate daughter of Priscella's father, marries Thomas Willarby, and has a son, Thomas.
There is a horrible letch, Beauville Granville who keeps turning up in all their lives.
Finally, he seduces Carlotta, much to Priscella's horror.
And that's only the highlights!This is a really interesting historical novel / period piece, with enough plot twists to keep you turning the pages.
I can usually tell if I love a book by whether I would read it again - so far, none of these "Daughters of England" books are any that I would read over.....and yet I keep reading them! Philippa Carr has a beautiful writing style and I do love to learn about the history going on during the different time periods but so many of the characters are not likeable to me. I'm not a fan of Harriet Main - I think she is incredibly manipulative - and I practically cheered when Beaumont Granville was no longer in the picture.
Didn't think this was as good as it could've been. Like many works by this author, under various pen names, she tends to set up engaging scenarios and build suspense, but doesn't make the most of the conflicts or climaxes.The plot itself is fine but feels underplayed. There's potential for better things.I liked the characters though none especially stood out.
One of my favorite love stories!
