https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/439162.Rear_Window
Overall, a fine collection of short stories with a mix that ranges from straight mystery to dramatic psychological suspense.★★★★"Rear Window": Originally titled "It Had to Be Murder" and the story the HItchcock movie was based on.
The characters are fleshed out and it's more interesting seeing everything from Jeffries's point of view out the window.]"I Won't Take a Minute" is one of Woolrich's variations on the-lady-vanishes story.
Kenny doesn't like it much (he thinks they take advantage of her good nature), but she convinces him that it "won't take a minute" for her to pop into the apartment building and hand over the package.
Cornell Woolrich is probably best known as the guy who wrote the story that became Rear Window (and possibly, to a lesser extent, the guy who wrote The Phantom Lady).
Originally published under the name "It Had To Be Murder," the published story of Rear Window differs from the film in key ways.
But, keep in mind, this version was first, and so one of the key differences between the two involves at what point we learn certain information about our narrator (in the film it's made explicit in the first scene, whereas the story saves it for the very last line).
Five short stories loaded with tension; in true genre short story style they're invariably about a final punchline but Woolrich had a fair amount of skill when it came to ratcheting up the tension and that's what leaves him recognised as a master of his craft. It's easy to see why Hitchcock was so enamoured of his work, as somebody not enamoured of Hitchcock there wasn't much chance that I'd be overly thrilled with these stories either.
Estuvo bien. historias policíacas a lo vieja escuela.
Diese aussichtlos wirkende Szenerie ist brillant erzählt und der Leser sieht sich förmlich auf das gleiche Ziffernblatt stieren, dessen Uhr unaufhaltsam gegen den unglücklichen Bastler tickt.Es sind Kriminalgeschichten, die mit einer unterhaltsamen Portion schwarzen Humors gewürzt sind und den Leser dazu verleiten, beinahe Mitleid mit den kriminellen Subjekten zu empfinden.Den einen oder anderen mag es noch interessieren, dass "Das Fenster zum Hof" nur bedingt Parallelen zu Hitchcocks berühmten Verfilmung aufweist.
Eine Grace Kelly schwebt natürlich nie durch das Krankenzimmer und überhaupt ist Romantik kein Thema in der Geschichte.
Die Rahmenhandlung ist ansonsten ähnlich konstruiert und mindestens genauso spannend wie im Film erzählt.
Letto dopo aver visto il film di HItchcock. Che ha arricchito di personaggi il plot, ma mantenuto perfettamente il senso di suspense di quelle poche pagine di W. Pagine che però svelano solo alla fine il perché dell'immobilità. Con un crescendo che toglie il fiato, come di consueto.
A worthy collection of stories.Rear Window (aka It Had To Be Murder) 4/5There are some plot issues that wouldn't work in a more modern context (police immediately jumping to search an apartment on a tip-off, etc), but it's sound overall and has good suspense and build-up.
And the ending wasn't "realistic" as far as the way all of the truth is revealed to the party(ies) involved, but it's a classic detective wrap-up.
His own plot coming back on his head was rather satisfying.Momentum 4/5The plot twist was obvious from a couple of pages in, but again, the interest of the story was in the journey, watching the momentum of one murder after another and the fast-paced escape drive forward to the inevitable conclusion.
http://youtu.be/omGDmvNWLVw
Die titelgebende (Haupt-)Story ist obwohl-oder eher-WEIL sie sich so vom Film unterscheidet, genauso spannend, selbst wenn man den Streifen schon 1,2-mal gesehen hat (die ganze hitchcockblondinenfetischige Romanze fällt zb. weg). Die anderen 4 Geschichten sind alles knackige Kriminalfälle voller überraschenden Wendungen: Twist-Garantie! Den einen oder anderen " 1 Zufall zuviel" muss man natürlich schlucken :)
Algunos relatos de misterio y suspense de Cornell Woolrich (también William Irish), empezando por el que inspiró a Hitchcock para su famosa película. Ingeniosos, aunque en ocasiones la resolución es un tanto forzada. Lo mejor es el sobresaliente manejo de la tensión; en este aspecto algunos relatos tienen momentos muy buenos. Entretenido y a menudo adictivo.
Pretty good for a quick read. It was suspenseful but not as exciting or complex as the film adaptation. The first half is extremely introspective, probably done to give the reader a sense of the character's solitude and boredom but it's a little hard to get into. Overall, it's an interesting and uniquely told mystery.
There is something strangely comforting about it, and I do find on occasion that it helps me to sleep.Therefore, I was mortified to find out that there was not just a book of the film, (or rather a film made out of the book) but that it was also by Cornell Woolrich who has penned numerous other film noir-esque stories.
All seems fine until he begins to notice strange goings on in the flat opposite.There's a reason why Alfred Hitchcock decided to adapt this story into a film, because it's amazing.
Perhaps there's a relationship?It is hard not to wonder why this story inspired Alfred Hitchcock to make a film adaptation.
Also, Hitchcock painted well-developed portraits of the various "rear window" denizens of the courtyard who are under the narrator's watchful eye.
He's convalescing from a broken leg, he's a bit paranoid, and he likes to stay up all night looking into the courtyard from his bay window (at times using a "spyglass" -- not binoculars, as depicted on the book cover or in the movie).
Like Hitchcock's film, the story is a classic of minimalism and compression.
Woolrich shows how a mundane courtyard and the narrator's mind are similarly teeming with life and death.
cinq histoires légères émouvantes .. des crimes la mort la conscience avec des fins inattendues bouleversantes même j'ai aimé ..ancien et touchant
The edition I have was published in 1984 and includes four other "short novels." Which seems weird to me, because the whole book is about as long as what I would consider a short novel.
I guess this is why I'm not in charge of naming books.I think this book was spoiled for me because the blurbs on the back that described each story gave me enough information to figure out the ending long before I actually got to it.
Si hay algo que decir de Cornell Woolrich, es que es uno de los escritores -en mi opinión más originales- en el género policial al crear historias con otro enfoque que trasciende la resolución de un enigma que se establece al principio. Es claro que llegué a "La ventana indiscreta" por la magistral adaptación de Hichtcook, pero no puedo dejar de disfrutar un texto que desde el inicio sabe atrapar al lector y mantenerlo hasta el final, sin más artificio que encontrar otro punto de vista donde incluso la credibilidad del narrador se encuentra en juego. Recomendado a mil.
Superb noir fiction. Beautifully written with exquisite suspense. They really do not write them like this anymore. Thoroughly enjoyable. I picked this up because the story that one of my favorite movies is based on, Rear Window, is included. But all the stories were fantastic.
Several stories in this psychological thriller collection, including rear window, one of my favorites. The author knows how to show what people are feeling and how thoughts can sometimes turn out to be even worse than we planned.
Many of Woolrich's stories have been made into films, but I had no idea about this one -- and I'm a Hitchcock fan.
Love the movie; decided to read the story behind it. I have to say i liked the movie better, but it's a more complete story as opposed to just a short story.
I liked it, but I liked the movie better.
And then there is the Nevins-edited Ballentine collection Rear Window And Four Short Novels which is pictured in the other editions, and which most of the reviews here are for, but it is not the same book (maybe Goodreads will correct this later).
This is how Woolrich writes much of the time but there are also plenty of cops and detectives; and in Bride Wore Black the two perspectives (cop and criminal) are interestingly juxtaposed.An author of 230 or so short stories, including many novellas, I've read them or Nevins' synopses of them and can assure you that fully half of them are quality items.
The short story that was turned into the Alfred Hitchcock movie Rear Window with Jimmy Stewart...a decent story, adapted into a great movie.
(Apparently, the other four stories in this collection were filmed as episodes of “Alfred Hitchcock Presents…”) Hard Case Crime reissued his novel Fright back in the early days of their imprint, but there hasn’t been a full-blown Woolrich revival yet.
(Adapted as Season 3, Episode 33 of Alfred Hitchcock Presents)THREE O’CLOCK.
The narration is not first person but is still an extremely limited one character POV; this heightens the tension, allowing the main character’s paranoia to flow convincingly into panic, despair and perhaps insanity.
(Adapted for Season 1 episode 15 of Alfred Hitchcock Presents)MOMENTUM.
(Adapted for Season 1, episode 39 of Alfred Hitchcock Presents)
Here he is able to concentrate on a single incident and build the suspense from the beginning to the end of the story in a continuous crescendo.
He had to make that train.The weakest story in this collection is “Post Mortem” which starts with a missing lottery ticket and builds to an attempted murder, but which relies on too many unrelated coincidences to allow the reader’s suspension of disbelief even over so short a span.
Woolrich concentrates on the possible murderer and the witness, keeping the focus on a single plot element and building steadily to a climax.
This selection is linked to Alfred Hitchcock."Rear Window" is every bit as thrilling as the movie - thestory becomes a war of wits between Hal Jeffries and LarsThorwald who may or may not have killed his wife.
Anotherneat bit is that you don't actually realise until the endthat Hal is hampered by a broken leg - it wouldn't haveworked in the movie but here it definitely adds to the tension."Change of Murder" was one of Woolrich's earliest crime stories(1936) and found it's way onto Season One of "Alfred HitchcockPresents" as "The Big Switch".
Publié en 1942L'auteur est américain, 1903-1968, auteur de nombreuses nouvelles et de quelques romans policiers qui ont eu du succès, notamment «la mariée était en noire».Recueil de nouvelles, dont quelques unes mêlent comique de situation et humour noir, («L'engrenage»).
Les nouvelles ne sont pas toutes policières («Le créateur»), mais elles ont toutes le mérite d'avoir une chute intéressante.La nouvelle «Un plat qui se mange froid» rappelle beaucoup les écrits d'Agatha Christie par son déroulement et la quête du meurtrier identifié par une astuce lors d'un dîner.
Elle souffre d'invraisemblance, ce qui m'a beaucoup agacée.Belle plume, sans fioriture mais sans feu d'artifice non plus.
L'écrivain mériterait toutefois d'être critiqué sur un autre titre où son art est plus accompli.
I also didn't like the main character, since he seemed too arrogant and obnoxious.
He gave a random accusation and expected the police force to go all out and follow through with a full investigation, based on his assumptions.
A name, an address, and an opinion." > he seems like a really annoying guy!
Yes - it turned out true, but no police would act on such vague and proof-less accusations.The movie was better, due to numerous characters being added.
The characters contributed a lot to the overall enjoyability of the movie, so the story lacked all that...
No sé cuántas veces habré escuchado eso de que la novela está mejor que la peli porque cuenta más, da más detalles, la historia es más compleja, es más esto y es más lo otro.
Aunque sea por una vez voy a hablar sobre uno de esos rarísimos ejemplos en los que sucede justamente lo contrario: La ventana indiscreta, cuya versión cinematográfica es, y sorpréndanse tanto como yo, más compleja, tiene más detalles y cuenta más historias paralelas a la trama original que La ventana indiscreta versión escrita.
La explicación es bien sencilla: la cinta dura más de lo que se tardan en leer las escasas veinte páginas del relato en el que se inspiró.Libro vs Película completo de Miguel Jaén para www.paraiso4.com: http://paraiso4.com/libro-vs-pelicula...
Der Band (ein Fundstück auf einem Flohmarkt) enthält fünf Kurzgeschichten aus den 1930er/40er Jahren, darunter die titelgebende Story "Das Fenster zum Hof", die die Vorlage für Alfred Hitchcocks gleichnamigen Film war. Woolrich schreibt düstere Geschichten, die einfach strukturiert wirken, aber zum Ende in der Regel noch einen überraschenden Knalleffekt bieten. Seine Stories handeln von Leuten, die zur falschen Zeit am falschen Ort sind, das Falsche tun und dabei in eine Abwärtsspirale ohne Hoffnung und Rettung gelangen.Leider fehlt es Woolrich etwas an der sprachlichen und erzählerischen Raffinesse eiones Raymond Chandler oder Dashiell Hammett - daher nur 4 von 5 Sternen.
