https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/249823.Diary_of_a_Provincial_Lady
"March 12th. —Resign from Book of the Month, owing to wide and ever-increasing divergence of opinion between us as to merits or demerits of recently published fiction. Write them long and eloquent letter about this, but remember after it is posted that I still owe them twelve shillings and sixpence for Maurois's Byron."I adored this book! I've been saving it for about ten years, because I tend to do that with books I know I will absolutely love. And I wasn't off the mark. I found this book hila
It reminded me of why I love E.F. Benson's Lucia novels, and D.E. Stevenson's Miss Buncle books.
— Regrettable but undeniable ray of amusement lightens general murk on hearing report that Cousin Maud Blekinsop possesses a baby Austin, and has been running it all around the parish with old Mrs. B., shawls and all, beside her.
Old Mrs. B suddenly says that there is nothing like the Bible—suggestion which I feel might more properly have been left to Our Vicar.
I wasn't sure if I'd continue the series, as I was told this is the best book in the collection, but I find myself missing Provincial Lady's musings.
The Provincial lady has a mostly silent and disengaged husband, a young daughter who has a French nanny and a slightly older son who has been packed off to prep school returning periodically for school holidays to disrupt the household.
She muses on the difficulties of parenting, the problem of hiring good household staff, the patronising Lady Boxe and Our Vicar's Wife whose visits are not always welcome and are always too long.
Then there are the household accounts to manage (income always struggling to meet expenditure), friends who come to stay (some welcome, some not), trips to London and even a trip to Paris to recover after measles.
Although published in book form in 1934, the “Diary of a Provincial Lady,” started life in 1930 as a serial in “Time and Tide.” Largely autobiographical, Delafield substituted the names “Robin” and “Vicky” for her own children, called Lionel and Rosamund, but, aside from name changes, this is very much a light hearted diary of country life and based upon the author’s own experiences.
I found the Provincial Lady delightful and this a very light and humorous read.
The strength of the book lies in the humour (but it's pretty watered down and barely caustic, unless you're really unacquainted with the variety) and the way the writer presents herself as relatable - a mother who's not all that motherly; a lady of the house who cannot run it efficiently; a person who never has enough cash and has to repeatedly pawn her heirloom ring and resort to selling used items of clothing; a woman who yearns for some time away from her family, and is told she looks ten years younger on separation.July 27th.—End of holiday quite definitely in sight, and everyone very kindly says, Why not stay on?
2.5 stars. I thought I would like this book more than I did. There were some funny parts but I found it repetitive. I found it hard to empathise with this character's worries and struggles given the amount of staff and time off she seemed to have !
And that the I found her such wonderful company that I quite forgot my shyness.I should explain first that the Provincial Lady wrote her diary in the 1930s, and that she lived in a very busy life in a lovely village in the south west of England.
This book was very much based on the real life of its author.
(This organisation is the ultimate custodian of country life in the UK.) On top of this she obviously had a great understanding of people, and a wonderfully dry sense of humour.The one way in which I hope real life deviated from her novel was in the state of her finances.
Full of humour about family and village life.My one reservation was that I read it online, on the stationary computer at my desk.
It would have so much easier and more pleasant to read as a book, plus it would have been the perfect bedtime read.
Delafield's marvelous Provincial Lady books are a series of journals written by a middle-class wife and mother, who is full of wit and literary aspirations but who is also tied down to her domestic duties; although she eventually achieves literary success, she still has to pull off a tricky balancing act between her professional and personal lives.
A parade of notable characters, often based on Delafield's friends and family, inhabit the pages of the books: the diarist's husband Robert, stolid and unimaginative; her children, Robin and Vicky; Vicky's excitable French governess, Mademoiselle; "dear Rose", the diarist's best friend; and many others.
Tee-hee-hee?Tee-hee-hee-dious!
This is me. At least if I was a 1930's English country wife. Lavishing my children, barely mentioning my husband and escaping to London or abroad whenever possible. Then there's juggling the finances, fobbing off the banks, trying to retain the cook and choosing which new hat to purchase. Screamingly funny, if you enjoy reading about an upper class lady trying to have it all, or at least muddle through.
Dear Provincial Lady,I would never know your name but your amusing and witty diary charmed and humored me.
Your diary is not filled with pompous musings or elegant language, but rather with little humorous memos to be read later and mocking queries about the intricacies of social situations.
It was a delightful read!Sincerely,This reader****************************************I hadn't heard of E.M. Delafield before this book.
The diaries were gathered into a first, then a second volume, and two more followed, taking her to America and then into wartime.There's not much plot at all in this book; nothing much happens but it is sort of comforting and amusing.
The book version was published in 1930, and The Diary of a Provincial Lady became E.M. Delafield's most popular and enduring work.
The Diary of a Provincial Lady is largely autobiographical and the children, "Robin" and "Vicky", are based on E.M. Delafield's own children.The Diary of a Provincial Lady inspired several sequels: The Provincial Lady Goes Further, The Provincial Lady in America and The Provincial Lady in Wartime which were similarly autobiographical.
The diary covers a year in the life of a married woman with two children living in an English village between the Wars.
Lots of very amusing events and descriptions of life, but my favourite was in July when she received a letter from a close friend who was on holiday in the south of France and asking her to go there for a fortnight."I am moved to exclaim - perhaps rather thoughtlessly - that the most wonderful thing in the world must be to be a childless widow - but this is met by unsympathetic silence from Robert, which recalls me to myself, and impels me to say that that isn't in the least what I meant.(Mem.: Should often be very, very sorry to explain exactly what it is that I do mean, and am in fact conscious of deliberately avoiding self-analysis on many occasions.
Do not propose, however, to go into this now or at any other time.)"Delightful.
3.5*This book, written in the form of a journal, charts the day to day life of a 1930's wife and mot
Sorry, but I enjoyed Henrietta's War and Henrietta Sees it Through by Joyce Dennys much more. I will try the others and see if I like them.
While problems with servants, lack of money (relatively speaking!), and the Women's Institute are not universal, who hasn't had the experience of someone saying something unpleasant, then "Think of several rather tart and witty rejoinders to this, but unfortunately not until Lady B.'s Bentley has taken her away."One question which occurred frequently was about why societal conventions & common politeness require adults to lie so often: "Lady Boxe calls.
to which I reply Yes, it is, which is not in the least true."This juxtaposition of the conventional polite behavior and the true thoughts of the author is the source of much of the humor.
It has never been out of print.The Diary of a Provincial Lady charts the day-to-day life of a Devonshire-dwelling lady and her attempts to keep her somewhat ramshackle household from falling into chaos.Husband Robert, when he's not snoozing behind The Times, does everything with grumbling reluctance.
And if her domestic trials are not enough, she must keep up appearances - particularly with the maddeningly patronising Lady Boxe, with whom our Provincial Lady eternally (and unsuccessfully) endeavours to compete.This largely autobiographical novel substituted the names of "Robin" and "Vicky" for her own children, Lionel and Rosamund.Abridged by Libby SpurrierRead by Claire SkinnerFree download available at Project Gutenberg - Australia.
Decisamente sopra le righe. Divertente e molto british.
Entertaining novel in the form of a diary that reminded me of the works of E. F. Benson's Lucia novels. While describing the most mundane details of life, Delafield practically teaches a class on life in the English provinces in the 1930s, and is especially revelatory about the class system at the time. To do all that amusingly is an accomplishment.
Can't help but compare this to Any Human Heart that I am listening to parallell to this. Both (right now) in England in pre-war and in journal format. This seem like mindless chatter, somewhat fun and interesting just due to the time it portraits. But really nothing that I will remember a week from now.While Any human heart, also a fabricated journal is so much fuller, richer. How I wish Delafield would have shared something a little more personal, a little more of her human heart.
Tengo que reconocer que me he reido muchisimo con este librito, y que me encanta el humor, puramente britanico y con mucha mala baba, de la señora Delafield
Having treated myself to the new Persephone edition of Diary of a Provincial Lady I decided to re-read it right away.
One of the things that sold me on the new edition (already owning an old Virago copy of the complete Provincial lady) was the lovely endpaper – which will remain one of my favourites.Our eponymous Provincial Lady – is an upper middle class wife and mother – who records in her journal the daily vicissitudes of life.
Feel that, if she wishes to discourage further experiments on my part, this observation could scarcely be improved upon.”Included in this new Persephone edition are some lovely original 1930’s illustrations by Arthur Watts, which I think are a brilliant addition to what is already a beautiful product.
Description: The Diary of a Provincial Lady is a brilliantly observed comic novel, as funny and fresh today as when it was first written.
But this Provincial Lady will not be defeated; not by wayward flower bulbs, not by unexpected houseguests, not even by the Blitz.
She took the name Delafield to distinguish herself from her mother (De la Pasture), also a novelist, and wrote over 30 books which could be 'as laugh-out-loud funny as PG Wodehouse' before her death in 1943.Opening: November 7th - Plant the indoor bulbs.
Diary of a Provincial Lady, was written between the wars, and is a charming and witty book, telling us of a typical country woman's life. (Of her class, anyway).  She worries about planting her bulbs too late, about the bills coming in, where to find servants in the country and generally, in keeping up appearances.  The characters are well drawn, from the infuriating Lady B, The vicar and his wife who seems to spend her whole time gossiping. Nice, easy and entertaining. Perfect for a Sunday afternoon.
British wit is good stuff. Comments about life are insightful, poignant and witty. Style of writing proves challenge as desire to learn more about character weighs heavily. (Query: do women such as this still exist, and if so, can I have a cup of tea with them on a frequent basis?)See myself re-reading this and giving it higher ranking in future. Immediately post-read still feel a bit unsatisfied but perhaps that is sign of good author?
Lovely, funny, amazingly relatable! Not that many people seem to know of this book nowadays, but its influence is very much present in popular best-sellers such as Bridget Jones and the Shopaholic series. In fact I am now convinced that Bridget Jones is basically a reboot of this book for the 90s, with some Pride and Prejudice and some Cosmo nonsense thrown in. (The Cosmo influence is probably why Bridget Jones sounds positively regressive next to this book, which is actually from the 1930s).
Um es gerade heraus zu sagen, so vielversprechend, wie es anfing, habe ich wirklich mehr erwartet.Dabei fällt es recht scher mit überhaupt einer der Personen zu sympathisieren, weil alles so hochgestochen und teils auch sehr falsch schein und unsere Protagonistin auch einige Fehler hat – wie sich selbst stets als das Opfer anzusehen -, welche die wenigen Sympathiefunken wettmachen.
The writer of this fictional diary is an upper-middle-class housewife in early 1930s rural England.
She wryly observers the absurdities of her life for a whole year: trying to plant bulbs indoors in the fall; dealing with a temperamental cook and emotional French governess; a snobby aristocratic neighbor; precocious children (and how they measure up to other children); bank overdraft and occasional jaunts she really can't afford but desperately needs.Her observations are somewhat humorous.
They're not laugh out loud funny, but they're not unfunny.
The illustrations are funny.
The line drawings depict the characters from the point-of-view of the housewife.
It's not that so much happens, it's that you get to hear this woman's inner thoughts - and they are fun-nee.
Witty and funny.
Anyway, a sample for your reading pleasure.
"Decide to get new dress, but must have it made locally, owing to rather sharply worded enquiry from London shop which has the privilege of serving me, as to whether I have not overlooked overdue portion of account?
(Far from overlooking it, have actually been kept awake by it at night.)"Jibs and jabs like that had me chuckling out loud.
A light, fun read.
This is the kind of book that makes me wish I lived in Cornwall in 1933 with a couple of servants, a garden, the occasional charity sale to organize and friends to invite me to places I generally can't afford.
Granted there are bills to pay with money I don't have (or only have for 5 seconds as it is already spent) and snooty upper class ladies to contend with but I think that - with my new best friend, the Provincial Lady (PL) by my side - we could manage very well indeed, thank you.
It wasn't the kind of book that I could laugh out loud at (so few are, really!) but it was one that had me smiling throughout.
