https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2424926.Vida_privada
De Sagarra follows the decline of one semi-aristocratic family over three generations, with the refrain about the consequences of the character weaknesses of a dynasty that hadn’t picked up a blade of straw from the ground for centuries.
In other places it seemed as if de Sagarra was writing fanciful treatises on all aspects of sexuality, just because he suddenly could, allowed by the 20th century and Freud.
Because it really is a fascinating depiction of a society failing at least in part due to the centuries-long privilege and corruption of its upper crust, Barcelona before the Civil War. And some of the characters are quite fascinating.
Kind of gob-smacked on this one, just browsing through the library lists and liking the cover yet having heard nothing of Josep Maria de Sagarra previously, this was a tour de force reminiscent of Henry James although with sentences that are slightly less lengthy but similarly beautiful and complex.Like James, in Private Life there is an awareness of class mores and the distinctions between class and money, but here it is between the fading dissolute Barcelona aristocracy and the emerging mercantile class whose fortunes and prospects look strong.
As the publisher Archipelago tells us, “Sagarra set out to write the great Catalan novel and the result: a scathing critique of the decadent and disappearing aristocratic class of Catalonia.” Josep Maria de Sagarra (1894-1961) is considered the best known Catalan writer, and we must be grateful to Archipelago for this excellent new translation bringing the novel to an English-speaking audience for the first time.
Set against a fairly turbulent political background, Barcelona really comes alive as we are immersed in the trials and tribulations of the characters.
Canònic. Sobretot per l'estil del llenguatge. Sens dubte, Sagarra i Pla són els dos artífexs més destacats del català literari modern.
“I fent això, senyora, li faig la caritat, el servei inmens de proporcionar-li un canvi de personalitat, de proporcionar-li la manera de deixar la pell maquillada per ladmiració de tots els que saben que vostè és la Baronesssa de Falset i pugui entrar dintre la pell duna prostituta vulgar, dintre del món més oposat al món de vostè, dintre un aire que vostè no podrá respirar mai, mai!”La lectura de “Vida privada” me ha provocado sentimientos encontrados. Normalmente un libro puede gustarte o no h
Aquí, objeciones y aciertos tiran con idéntica fuerza, de manera muy clara, y habré de considerar ambas direcciones.Sin duda los diálogos, la escrupulosa construcción de los personajes y la minuciosa ambientación de los círculos en que estos se mueven, son la mejor baza de la novela.
Sin embargo, así como la descripción de dichos círculos, los distintos escenarios donde transcurren las sórdidas intimidades de las familias acomodadas en la Barcelona de la década de los años 20, nos llega y cala a través de las situaciones mismas, con los personajes Sagarra usa y abusa de un retrato intrusivo, eficaz, sí, incluso riquísimo en su complejidad, pero que consiente cierto aire de trampa, porque cada acción de los protagonistas es justificada inmediatamente, de continuo, mediante esa misma disección a golpe de bisturí.
As in many modernist novels, there's not a single sympathetic character in it (which sometimes makes me long a little for the comforts of easy reading, like the novel I read just before this one: Colins' The Moonstone).
Er...This is also most evident in the little journalistic sketch the translator includes in the afterword as an example of the day to day hack writing Sagarra was popular for in Spain: that prose is purple to the point of bursting, it's well nigh unreadable to me, especially since it seems to be florid writing for florid writing's sake.
I have some quibbles, like the narrator being rather judgemental about his characters: Sagarra is not big on irony.
Three stars for the story--by the end I felt as if I knew these people, even though they inhabited a world very different from my own (Barcelona in the late 1920s). The way the characters' stories interwove, diverged, and came back together was fascinating. The fourth star is for the translation; I never felt as if I were reading a translation, the flow was so natural.
4,5
Crec que Josep Maria de Sagarra és un home que s'ho passava bé escrivint, d'alguna manera això es transmet. Brutals els diàlegs, brutal la manera de caracteritzar els personatges a través de la sexualitat, entesa en un sentit molt ampli. Potser una mica massa invasiu.
Yet after finishing "Private Life", I think Sagarra managed to write a brilliant novel that can be justly called the distant, younger cousin of the Russian greats.
It also took some time to get into the book before it became easier to appreciate and understand it, and I agree with my prof who said that the fact that Sagarra wrote this novel in two months really shows with the at-times messy writing.
It's a rich book that's impossible to fully appreciate after only one read, yet that is exactly what points to Sagarra's stubborn brilliance.
El argumento, algo folletinesco, es sin duda lo de menos, lo realmente remarcable de este libro es la descripción sin piedad de una clase social. Le sobran unas cuantas páginas pero es un gran libro imprescindible para entender esta ciudad, esta tierra
In that sense, Private Life reminded me of novels such as Lampedusa’s The Leopard or Mann’s The Buddenbrooks, except that it is fueled by a savagery not present in those two books and that gives this volume a very unique cachet.
Set mostly in Barcelona during the 1920s and very early 1930s, Private Life is as much the painting of the buoyant Catalonian capital as it is the story of the Lloberola, an aristocratic family catastrophically falling apart.
The world that Sagarra unmasks in Private Life is so corrupt and diseased, it is obvious that a social explosion is inevitable.
Novel·la emblemàtica de Barcelona, de la literatura catalana, una delícia de llenguatge, una meravella de descripcions. Imperdible.
However, it lacks what you might call forward momentum – unless you count the story of a formerly wealthy family in its final spasms of dissipation, which has all the urgency of watching champagne lose its fizz, few characters seem to end in places very different from where they started.
The latter passages are often very good, and it seems that Sagarra was writing nearly from life.
Surely there was more going on?Mary Ann Newman's translation from Catalan is a pleasure to read and she has found a wonderful voice for Sagarra in English.
"In a time of income disparity and a general shrinking of the middle class in many countries worldwide, it is apropos that Mary Ann Newman would create a new translation of the Catalan novel Private Life by Josep Maria de Sagarra. The novel itself is concerned with holding up a mirror to Barcelona’s elite, exposing all the selfishness and audacity of wealth and power in the early twentieth century." - Sarah WarrenThis book was reviewed in the September/October 2016 issue of World Literature Today magazine. Read the full review by visiting our website:http://www.worldliteraturetoday.org/2...
Fiction S1293p 2015
Basically a collection of stories
Clarament és una fotografia de la Barcelona del segle XX i ajuda a compendre l'estil de vida de les persones d'aquella època.
