https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/13103.The_Celestine_Prophecy
a mea culpa for me and Ruby!once upon a time, a long time ago, i was an Entertainment Insurance Underwriter for AIG (well, a junior underwriter).
one day i learned that i had written a movie policy that was so successful, so full of clever exclusions to coverage that it managed to cut off an entire family from any AIG benefits after a fatal helicopter crash.
soon after, i quit my job and became a counselor for homeless kids, and so my life changed.during this time period, i had an associate named Ruby.
Ruby was a Crisis Management Underwriter...
• This is the 2nd time I’ve read this book. And while I’m pretty sure most of it is fictional, I still think it carries some valuable insights…so I want to summarize them in the 9 insights of the book and my understanding of them:o 1) Noticing the coincidences in life is the first step. The more I become aware of coincidences, the more I’ll become aware of a universal force behind them.o 2) This is about putting my awareness into a longer historical perspective. Imagining myself as a part of all
And while I’m pretty sure most of it is fictional, I still think it carries some valuable insights…so I want to summarize them in the 9 insights of the book and my understanding of them:o	1) Noticing the coincidences in life is the first step.
So in that case mine would be trying to blend service and joy and spirituality.o	7) This is about conscious evolution…by actively connecting to ininate energy by thinking about love, then remembering my basic life question, then center myself on my path by discovering the immeadiate, smaller questions that currently confront my life.
Utter rubbish from start to finish. This is the literary equivalent of a Ponzi scheme. He made loads of money based on fraud. Nothing there. If you have a brain, use it, and don't go near this book.
I resent when a writer who has a lot of opinions about, ya know, stuff, decides that everyone should hear about all the stuff he's thinking about, but then realizes that maybe it would be boring as all get out, so then decides that if he turns all the stuff he's thinking into a novel, then maybe people will read it.
This way he still gets to spout rhetoric at his readers, but couch it in "fiction." No, sir, you cannot bend fiction to your evil will.
Just because you put something within quotation marks does not make it dialogue.
Maybe diatribalogue, but that's not even a word.
I woke up after I read this book and realized there was so much more I was suppose to be doing in this world.
So after this book, I woke up and starting living life and looking at life differently - using many of the tools I learned from The Celestine Prophecy insights.Bad point of this book it has a horrible...horrible...writing style.
It is written for the masses...so that all people can read this book and "get it." But looking past the horrible writing style....the ideas and concepts outlined in the book are life tools....spiritual tools.
I picked it up and read perhaps the first 50 or so pages while I was sitting in her hospital room, then I skimmed the rest of it and tossed it in the trash.
What I saw was poor writing, misguided ideas, lack of structure and in general a waste of paper and ink, all in the guise of a novel of some sort.
If I'd had anything else to read, maybe the back of a cereal box or the instructions for operating the medical equipment in the room, I'd have tossed it sooner.
A client of mine once told me how wonderful and life-changing this book was, and I thought, huh, I'll have to give it a read. Thank goodness I checked it out from the library rather than spending any money on it.The Celestine Prophecy is one of those self-improvement/find yourself books packaged up in a fictional wrapper. Lots of new-age nonsense here; nothing that struck me as both profound and truthful. It's not even an interesting story, viewed purely as fiction.Come to think of it, that client was kind of an odd duck.
I really hoped this book would be as good as "everyone" says it is. I was totally underwhelmed. Painfully jejune plot, paper-thin characters, pedestrian prose, and for what? A handful of ridiculous "insights" about how our expectations affect the physical world and how we fight for each other's "energy." Maybe if I sit down and meditate toward this book I can make it vanish permanently.
Flaws in the plot and the historical information and lots of the ideas were wishy washy.
On the second read, I let go of the fact that it was badly written and the characters were bad and all the other flaws.
I don't think it was ever intended to be a work of literary wonder but as an accessible vehicle for ideas.
In that case, I think it is unfair to treat it as an attempt at a literary wonder and I decided to look past the bad writing and so on and look only to the ideas it puts forward.
(Actual footage of me reading this book*)*It was the only book available to me during a recent stay with some relatives down south, as I'd stupidly left the stack of paperbacks I'd planned to bring on the kitchen table at home. It's really really good if you like crap. I'm sorry if this book is really important to any of you. So, so sorry.Just not my thing. To each their own.
According to Redfield, this philosophy does not contradict any of the world’s major religions, but rather supplements them.* The important thing to take away from this is that these insights are not mere plot devices; they are key components of a spiritual movement that Redfield fervently believes in and is trying to spread with this book.I’m not going to pretend I have all the answers and start snarkily laying into this stuff.
Personally I’ve always thought that Christianity is mysterious and opaque enough to be compelling without messing around with energy levels (which sound suspiciously like thetan levels, a la Dianetics: The Modern Science of Mental Health) and other new age concepts.
I cannot express in words how much I hated this book. Only retching noises will suffice. Several people whom I love recommended this book to me and I resisted until I was backpacking through Brazil and had nothing to read except a few romance novels in Dutch (which I can neither speak nor read.)I should have made the best of the Dutch.
I remember quite liking it.
I hadn't read anything like it before and it made me think really deep thoughts.
I am not sure what I would think of this book now.
But I'm also someone open to books like The Secret and Conversations with God: An Uncommon Dialogue, Vol. 1 and whatnot.
(I have actually read Bringers of the Dawn: Teachings from the Pleiadians and LIKED it.)Oh, I think I just remembered a big part of the book that has stayed with me.
The types of people: aloof, poor-me, intimidating, and interrogative.
Think about time from the perspective of a millennium.Third Insight: Be aware of beauty, eat home-grown vegetables, and see auras around all living things.Fourth Insight: Understand that humans compete for energy in “control dramas” we learn from our parents.Fifth Insight: Have a sensual “mystical awareness.” Appreciate beauty to receive energy, and feel love to give energy.
Avoid being “addicted” to other people, especially to their opposite-sex energy.
Addiction to getting energy from other people will stop your growth.
Ninth Insight: We will choose to have less people and more old-growth forests, so everyone can live in a forest.
وقتی یکدیگر را ملاقات می‌کنند به او می‌گوید که دولت پرو از فاش شدن متن کتیبه برای مردم جلوگیری می‌کند، ولی او با کشیشی ملاقات کرده که به وی گفته کتیبه متعلق به قرن ششم پیش از میلاد مسیح است و تحولی همه جانبه در جامعه ی بشری در دهه‌ های پایانی قرن بیستم میلادی پیش‌بینی می‌کند.
An unbelievable book, that can be read one of two ways, you can simply read it as an adventure story of a man struggling to understand what it is he wants from life, or, as I have done, you can read it as a self help book.
What a self help book it is.
It really encourages you to look at yourself and how you see your life both its past present and future.
It gives you insights on how to take a more positive and active approach to your life.
This book can change your life if you let it.
i read this in high school and i remember liking it, but if i read it now all grown up, i would probably find it silly.
"The Celestine Prophecy" tells of following your innermost intuition-- which is truly ironic as I feel downright jipped after not having listened to my very own quivering string; not leaving this rot to rot upon its dusty, underused shelf.In this "adventure" (yes, "adventure") people of all non-distinct types intersect and learn the awful/outstanding lesson: NO MATTER WHAT (OR HOW), THOU SHALT BE CATERED TO!
filling in one long lecture (interspersed throughout the dull-as-s**t narrative as spurts of half-baked wisdom, often as half-yolk half-chick hybrid/Pollocks themselves, fallen off a high tree) just to some neutral Blah Blah white sheep ("protagonist").
indoctrinate your fellow man!
knowledge is power!
one of us, one of us!!!!) and NOT, crazily enough, peyote.
Unfortunately, when we do this--instead of seeing the deeper beauty of the person and giving them energy--we take energy away and actually do them harm.
Some relevent and feel good ideas rooted mostly in the more mystical and esoteric branches of various world religions are choked by a sugary new-age coating and a completely irrelevent "mystery novel" story line. There is no story, the characters walk along, find a page and read it. The relevent contents of this book could be handed out in a one page pamphlet.
The only reason I own this piece of idiotic dreck is because QPBC sent it to me as the book of the month and I wasn't quick enough off the mark about sending it back - OK? I just needed to make that perfectly clear. I do actually have a brain, and this book is clearly aimed at those who do not.
In many ways, The Celestine Prophecy was the book that opened the door to the New Age movement in books.
The Celestine Prophecy blew open the publishing door by staying on the bestseller lists for years.
I had begun writing in 1990, this book showed up in mass in 1993, after Warner Books took Redfield's self-published version to press.
It would take me many more years, many still closed doors, before my own book,  Transformational Healing: Five Surprisingly Simple Keys Designed to Redirect Your Life Toward Wellness, Purpose and Prosperity, would be born.
I was told to read this passed down book from a good friend of mine.
As she gave this book to me she said, "This book changed my outlook on life and I hope it does for you too." The Celestine Prophecy is a book that is not only inspirational but also motivational too.
The Celestine Prophecy is one that I will continue to pass down to my family and friends.
One of the best books I have read and will always highly recommend to those who may question this brilliant novel.
WTF? This book is the worst kind of sci-fi/pseudo-spirituality. There are enough real awesome things in the world; we don't need this. This book presents itself as non-fiction, and although the author repeated stated after the fact that is purely invented, hoards of people began following the "teachings" in this book. It's nearly unreadable, but it will give you insight into what the masses are loooking for: a way to make your life better and change the world. Too bad it's fake. i guess I would reccomend My Ishmael to anyone who has the urge to read this.
The Maya didn't live in Peru.
This book is a cross between a sales pitch, and a religious text pushing what are apparently the religious beliefs of James Redfield.
So it's kind of like reading a textbook, with a story...
The Insight that provided information on the various "control dramas" used by people to steal energy from almost made me laugh.
Great, you should send money to James Redfield, because that's what he's asking you to do.
Also you should send me money too, because I found these amazing crystals, lets say...
This is possibly the worst book in print. Since I haven't read EVERYTHING in print, I cannot say definitively, but I would bet at least a packet of ketchup (this piece of trash isn't worth a better wager) that the cleaning of the Agean stables would be easier than finding a more poorly written stinking heap of nonsense.
2016This is now about the 3rd or 4th time I've read this book and it probably won't be my last. Every now and again I just pick it up and off I go! I'll definitely plough through the next 3 books but probably won't put them on Goodreads again, I guess I'll keep them all as my guilty secret!*****************************2011I loved this book when I read it a good few years ago. I enjoyed the spiritual factors behind the 'Indiana Jones' type storyline. I went on to read the rest of James Redfield's books but this one remained a firm favourite.
مولف در این اثر کوشیده موضوعاتی همچون : عرفان، تکال، جهان پس از مرگ، تجسم سرونوشت بشر، نبرد قدرت و همانند آن را بررسی کند .در کتاب حاضر، تاریخ بیداری انسان و فداکاریهای او به منظور به کارگیری شیوههای گوناگون زندگی به تصویر کشیده شده است.
مولف در این اثر کوشیده موضوعاتی همچون : عرفان، تکال، جهان پس از مرگ، تجسم سرونوشت بشر، نبرد قدرت و همانند آن را بررسی کند .در کتاب حاضر، تاریخ بیداری انسان و فداکاری‌های او به منظور به کارگیری شیوه‌های گوناگون زندگی به تصویر کشیده شده است.
It reminded me a bit of the Da Vinci Code in that you traveled along with the main character on this quest but instead of it being a quest to find some religious artifact or truth that is external, this quest was internal about finding something about yourself.
Which is why too I think I love Harry Potter so much because while I read that in a state of awareness I can see and find lessons appropriate for me on that journey as well, and that is quite a journey- a bit more exciting than Celestine ;0) So what is about?
Like it was telling people something new, like it was real!
The movie was some god-awful Lifetime movie-ish crap, too, wasn't it?http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Cele...This kind of book reminds me of The Secret, by Rhonda Byrnes.
Of course, this isn't technically a self-help book, but a lot of people treated it like one.In the end though, the things Redfield describes in his book are just an amalgam of various types of religious thought that has been exposited about elsewhere, in a better, more in depth fashion if someone cared to explore them.However, we see this phenomenon from time to time.
