https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2402971.The_Magician
OK, the story is not bad, but that boy is bugging the heck out of me!!! He is annoying and the sister is just a very little tad better... Will give a chance to the next one...
My favorite part of the story was definitely the introduction of Machiavelli as another villain!!
I love any story that can blend so many things I love together.But the writing itself wasn't terribly exciting and often seemed more focused on cramming in every possible reference or seeing how many different myths could be connected in one book.
The plot kind of took a backseat at times and neither of the first 2 books in this series were particularly engaging.
So I liked this story overall, but am not rushing out to read the next book.
Okay, well I gave two stars to The Alchemyst which is book one in the series and basically thought that it was a bit childish and I probably would not read book 2.
The I saw book 2 has a group rating over 4 and thought "well it can't be that bad".
So I read it and it was certainly better than book 1.
The story is okay.
Some of the characters are a bit out there too.
This is not a bad book.
It is really okay.
And in a while I might be able to read book 3.
This isn't helped when someone will make a comment about something they need to do or referring to some immortal's abilities in a roundabout way, but which the answer for is glaringly obvious to the reader (because, again, due to REPETITION), and Sophie or Josh will act all "Durrrr, what you mean?!?!?", even though it should be obvious to them too.Speaking of the twins, Josh annoyed the hell out of me in book one while Sophie was alright.
In fact, this is supposed to be a book series about Nicholas Flamel, so the importance constantly place upon Sophie and Josh, giving them the right to be the Spotlight-Stealing Squad makes things all the more unbearable.
It's a young adult series, so of course the main characters need to be teenagers, right?
More actiony than the first book, and not quite as gripping for me, as the characters just tumbled from chase to chase, and weird enemy creature to weird enemy creature. Readers who like that, however, will eat the book up, and I'm still fascinated enough to read the next book. I admire Scott's grasp of world myth and legend--in that respect he's up there with Neil Gaiman, Jane Lindskold, and Guy Gavriel Kay!
3.5Bastante mejor que el primero. Este tomo mantiene errores presentes en El Alquimista, pero es más dinámico y un poco (solo un poco) menos pesado.Buen final.
I once *thought* the narration was supposed to tell the story of the title character, but instead we get these horrible Mary Sue twins gamboling about, and the author just has to remind the reader in every other sentence how their silver and gold auras are so magnificent and how they're the Super Speshul Uber Cool Twinsies of Legend and yada yada blah blah.
Also nobody needs to be re-told 575972873 times how their auras smell of vanilla and strawberry and whatever other completely ridiculous tripe.
Dok je prva knjiga služila da nas upozna sa igračima, svetom i opasnostima i samim tim bila naporna na momente u ovoj knjizi ulećemo u trčećem tempu i do kraja nema stajanja.
Samim tim sama priča relativno stagnira ovde ali je sve prepuno akcije i opasnosti koje naši junaci moraju da izbegavaju što vrlo lepo drži pažnju.
Isto tako za većinu likova me i dalje boli uvo ali sam se barem kolko tolko vezao za blizance i počinjem polako da navijam za njih što je još uvek jedan veliki plus u odnosu na prethodnu knjigu.Sve u svemu lep pomak u odnosu na prvu knjigu tako da nastavljamo dalje sa serijalom :)
Αν και το πρώτο βιβλίο της σειράς δεν με εντυπωσιάσε ιδαίτερα, πίστευα ότι το δεύτερο τουλάχιστον, ε
The only complaint that I have about the Magician is the same complaint that I had about the Alchemyst - where is the next book?Michael Scott deftly picks up Sophie and Josh's story where the Alchemyst left off.
And although it had been over a year since I had read Alchemyst, I was never lost or feeling that I needed to go back and re-read the first book.
Mr. Scott did a wonderful job of weaving pieces of book 1 into the Magician.In this story, Sophie and Josh are in Paris with Nicholas Flamel and Scatty trying to fine-tune Sophie's new skills and have Josh's Awakened.
And I like how the book title seems to refer to more than just one character, at least in this instance -- going in, we assume 'the Magician' refers to Saint-Germain, but Dee is a magician as well.
There was lots of action and I loved the inclusion of historical figures like Joan of Arc and Niccolo Machiavelli.
The overall story seems rather predictable (and as such, makes Dee a rather predictable villain) but Machiavelli is delicious.
There were several times, even amid all the action, where I simply didn't have any interest in listening to this though; not sure if that was me or the narration or what.
Not as good as the first book, but what I wanted to happen came true, so I'm happy.
WOW.This book started out with TONS of promise, introducing Machiavelli with the Kabuki masks.
Sophie continues her magical training, and learns fire magic from Saint Germaine, who in turn stole it from Promethius; Saint Germaine is coincidentally married to THE Joan of Arc, the last person to have a silver aura (besides Sophie.) Josh stays incredibly jealous..
The story line was way too predictable..
But the rest of the book continued to DRONE...
and the way he added Joan of Arc in was too awkward.
I really love Joan of Arc, but she's a terrible character addition.
why did I give this book three stars?
Scott does an excellent job of weaving imagination into known history.
Many of the problems that existed in the first book were gone from this one and the action was even better.
My only slight problem with this book was the pacing.
I kept thinking it was about to end, because I was listening on audiobook and wasn't sure how much was left.
But the book kept going and going with more and more action.
Not a problem, it's just that it kept me unsure.
And the actor for the audiobook was excellent.
Really great job.
The first book in this series, The Alchemyst, was not that great, and the second book is proving to be equally disappointing.
It's not that this book, or this series, is entirely terrible, it's just that it lacks something that would make it enjoyable.
Second, I've read that the author is a leading authority on mythology and folklore, and I have no reason to doubt that because it seems that his purpose in writing these books is trying to cram every bit of mythology and folklore he knows about into the books, then trying to write a fictional story around them.
I love anything to do with Alchemy and having recently spent time in Paris this adventure was doubly entertaining for me.It's about twin teenagers who find their own magic and deal with the magic that surrounds them in the modern day streets of Paris. The author's wildly imaginative concepts are dark and dangerous. This is fun read for those who are still in touch with the child within.
Πολύ καλυτερο από το 1ο βιβλίο αλλά περιμένω στο 3ο ο Νίκολας Φλαμέλ να μην είναι τοσο αδυναμος και ο Τζος να μην τόσο εκνευριστικος και ανυπόφορος !!! Θα συνεχίσω και το 3ο βιβλίο Η Μάγισσα και τα υπόλοιπα επίσης !!!! Ο Μακιαβέλι είναι πολύ πιο συμπαθητικός κακός !!!! Η δραση πολύ πιο καλύτερη ,η πλοκή επισης και η φαντασία πολύ πιο ωραία εδώ !!!! Ανυπομονω για το 3ο βιβλίο !!!!!!!!!
The Magician, the second book in the Secrets of the Immortal Nicholas Flamel series, totally rocked my world!Josh, Sophie, Nicholas, and Scatty have used the leygate in Ojai to get to Nicholas' home in Paris, France and escape the evil Dr. John Dee. Sophie has already been Awakened by Hekate and has learned the secrets to the magic of Air. She is now ready to master the next elemental magic: fire.
But when they arrive in Paris they don't receive a warm welcome.
This series is awesome. It's fast-paced, funny and intriguing. I love how there's so many different mythologies involved in this book and it's really a joy to listen to. I never want to stop once I start. One of the things I really like is how even though it's seemingly obvious who is good and who is evil, you're never really quite 100 percent sure. I need the next book as soon as possible, because it is totally adictive.
Instead of needing to introduce the strange, magical world of Nicholas Flamel, Scott focuses more on ramping up the stakes for his characters.
Tons of action, and the stakes are high — Flamel and the twins are running for their lives, and up against incredible odds, which makes for a brilliant reading experience.The only thing that brought me down in this book was Josh’s character.
We meet some FANTASTIC new characters and learn even more about the mythology that rules this world, which is one of my favorite parts of reading books like this.
The author has created a whole new universe based on real historical figures, history and ancient lore, in such a way that reading it makes you think it could be actually plausible !The character development is one of the finest I've seen in books of this genre, the plot is brilliant, almost every chapter ends on a cliffhanger or a very important part of the story and the plot twists as so well made that you almost never guess what will happen next.
Wow. Not just for kids.
I loved this book.
From the beginning it shot off at rocket speed and didn't slow at all.
I usually find myself pondering the writing, the characters, etc., but there was none of that here.
There was too much to absorb.) It gripped me from the beginning.
I was sad when it ended, and I am excited to start the 3rd book in this series.
I don't think it is completely necessary to turn him into a total little whiner, but I feel like I know where that is going.
It flashes like a neon sign on a very dark night.
The Magician gives us more than better twist than the Alchemyst. It drives us in a new dimension than far better our imagination can travel with. With new characters than gives revelation within the story. New revelation within the lives of the characters.-------------------------------------------------------------------Re-reading this made me dive again to my thoughts about this book. Quite half of the book was slow paced during Flamel's encounter with Saint Germain and Joan. Nonetheless, this was a great book! I don't understand some readers to missed out this great series :(
Nice one. The only thing I didn't like was: if they are talking in a certain language, why don't you put the sentence directly in that language instead of saying: "they spoke in french". It is quite weird and stupid.(view spoiler)[ Perenelle trapped in Alcatraz. The rest in Paris. New character: Machiavelli. New enemies, new adventures...Josh is Awakened by Mars. What was the mysteious gift?What about Perenelle and the Morrigan? (I wonder why Nicholas is so quiet knowing that his wife is trapped there... Hm.)What about Dagon and Scathach? Machiavelli and Dee joining forces...I will continue soon. :D  (hide spoiler)]
5 Magical Stars..... This book is everything I want from a mythical fantasy genre and I loved it to the core.Every new character from the myths and legends are extraordinary in their own sense and I love all the characters in it. I get to know more about the history of everything in a magical and detailed way. If you haven't started this series, then you have to definitely start this.
Some magical young adult adventure and excitement...
Haha'The Magician' is the thoroughly captivating sequel to 'The Alchemyst', and the second book of the series.
After an ending like that, you've got to make sure whatever comes next doesn't loose the readers' attention, and I thought Scott succeeded there.
Scott further develops the protagonists, but along with that, is his bringing in and developing characters such as Saint-Germain, Joan of Arc, the Witch of Endor and Machiavelli.
Also, how cool it is that Michael Scott used well known names like Joan of Arc, and Niccolo Machiavelli, and it still made complete sense?
If I can say one thing, it's that Michael Scott has perfected his ability to end books.
In the book the magician Nicholas Flamel took the 2 twins from the prophecy, Sophie and Josh, to Paris with the help of Scatty.
Further into the book Nicholas old student Comte de Saint Germain teaches Sophie fire magic.
It's the sequal to the book The Alchemyst:Secrets of the immortal Nicholas Flamel.
Some of the Characters are Nicholas Flamel, Comte de saint Germain, Scatty, Josh Newman, Sophie Newman, Perry Flamel, John Dee,and Nicollo Machavelli.
The main plot is that Perry is escapeing Alcatraz, Sophie trainig in the element of fire, and Josh's powers being awakened all at the same time.
Unfortunately, Sophie, Josh, and Flamel remain fairly bland, and Josh's jealousy over Sophie's "awakening" mixed with his fear of losing her has been beaten to death.
Add in his tenuously written mistrust of Flamel, and Josh begins to seem petulent and annoying.
Bizarrely, the non-stop action is honestly just a bit much, though I'm sure it thrills its target audience.
The first two entire books take place within about 3-5 days, so there's very little movement of the larger plot of the story -- it's just non-stop escaping.
Harus diakui, Michael Scott memang jago bikin pembaca (saya) tersihir dan enggan berhenti sebelum tiba di halaman terakhir.
Tadinya sempat 'curiga' kalau sekuel The Alchemyst ini nggak akan sebagus buku pertama, tapi ternyata kecurigaan saya tidak beralasan.Makin banyak makhluk2 aneh yang dihadirkan, makin banyak legenda dan mitos yang dibangkitkan.
Walaupun demikian, pertanyaan saya tetap sama seperti di buku pertama, kenapa beberapa Tetua yang digambarkan begitu sakti dan kejam dan berbahaya, pada akhirnya begitu mudah ditundukkan.
Ketegangan yang tadinya memuncak, tiba-tiba terjun bebas saat sang Tetua kalah.
Dan, saya kok jadi suka sama Niccolo Machiavelli yaaahhh :)
