https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/96629.Hope_for_the_Flowers
اینکه مهم نیست تا کجا بالا بریم، چقدر پولدار باشیم یا متراژ خونه هامون چقدر بزرگ باشه یا اصلا کشوها و کمد هامون رو با چقدر طلا و لباس و هزار جور چیز دیگه پر کنیم، حقیقت اینه که ذات ما آدم ها اینه که از هر چیزی، حالا هر چه قدرهم خوب و خارق العاده، یک روز خسته میشهاون زمانی که همه چیز در اطرافمون خسته کننده و تکراری و حتی گاهی اوقات آزار دهنده میشه ، درست همون لحظه ست که به دنبال مفهوم واقعی زندگی هامون می گردیم،همون لحظه ست که در مسیرمون توقف می کنیم و به اطرافمون نگاه میکنیم و از خودمون می پرسیم که آیا واقعا مسیر درستی رو انتخاب کردیم؟ اینکه آیا خوشبختی واقعی رو می تونیم در انتهای همون مسیری پیدا کنیم که آدم های دیگه رفتن من فکر میکنم این مساله که اکثر آدمها "مسیری" رو برای رسیدن به هدف هاشون انتخاب می کنن صرفا" نمی تونه به این معنی باشه که اونا راه درستی رو انتخاب کردن.
I certainly got along with everyone, and drank tons of instant coffee hanging out with the guys, but I wasn't really connecting -- except with one guy, a really great person who I was starting to become good friends with, and then he died of tuberculosis.
Those periods of depression became more like exclamation points.Twice a year, during the two years I was there, I got into the "main island." (Let's describe that in some other post.) During those trips, I drank excessively.
And at the end of one stay, I began dating (okay, let's call it "dating" as well as dating) a very nice, sweet, good-intentioned English teacher like myself.
I was really curious on this children's book because I've read several good reviews before about this.
I was able to purchase a copy of this from our local bookstore online and I read it right away.
It's a short story so I was able to read it within 10 minutes or less.The story reminds me of Aesop's fables I've read when I was still young.
It could be children's book but the lessons are more like a reminder for adults.
I highly recommend this to everyone especially to those who are young professionals or who are already in the workforce.
Someone's comment just reminded me of this one...I read this when I was a kid (significantly under 10) at the public library.An allegorical hippie story encouraging people (or caterpillars) to get out of the rat race.
(It's pretty impossible to miss.) Even then, while I didn't disagree with the 'go your own way' part of the message, I thought the delivery was a Bit Much.It features a HORRIFYING scene where the ambitious caterpillars are literally forming pillars, climbing over each other and crushing each other on the way to the top - where they simply fall from the pinnacle to their splatty deaths.I think it scarred me for life.________Another review just mentioned a bit I didn't remember, so I looked it up.
یه کتاب کوتاه و خوب که خوندنش 10 دقیقه بیشتر زمان نمیبره.در قالب یه داستان ساده و کودکانه در مورد زندگی و معنای اون صحبت کرده و اینکه الزاما مسیری که همه دنبالش می کنند و اونو ارزش می دونن راه درست نیست و با اینکه خواسته ی افراده، به معنی خوب بودن اون جایگاه نیست و گاهی دقیقا اون لحظه ای که همه فکر می کنن شکست خوردی تازه در راه درست قرار گرفتی.یه کتاب ساده، کوچولو، دوست داشتنی
this book is written like a childrens book, but for adults.
Very reminicent of Esops fables....I first read it back in high school, a friend saw me looking it over, and then went back and bought it for me.
Its a little about love, and growing into your own skin, its about doing what has to be done, but knowing and understanding why its done, rather than doing just for the sake of doing.
Its about taking leap of faith, looking around you and knowing there is something more.....I reread it as time passes, just to remind myself of its beauty...
Hope for the Flowers presents a wonderful, charming tale of two caterpillars (Stripe and Yellow) trying to get to the top.Beguiled at first by a misguided attempt to climb on the heads of their fellow caterpillars (who have commingled into an enormous "caterpillar pillar" that ascends into the sky), Yellow and Stripe eventually abandon the pillar for the simple lives of eating and rolling around on the ground.
But Stripe can't contain his curiosity about the pillar, and abandons Yellow to try the climb again.
It's a story about love and ambition.Stripe does not truly know what he wants.
It's about hope.Even when Yellow wanted to reach the top of the pile as well, and even if it hurt to admit that she couldn't think of any other way to go up, and even when she loved Stripe so much she wanted to follow him, she stood her ground knowing climbing was the wrong way - if she climbed she'd have to step all over the others all over again.
A different sort of book for everyone,Except for thosewho have given up completely...(And even they might secretly enjoy it.)  این کتاب رو پیشنهاد میدم به اونهایی که امیدشون رو از دست دادن... و به اونهایی که با واژه "تردید" آشنا هستن و در راهی که پیش گرفتن چشمهاشون رو نبستن.که حس میکنن وسط روزمرههای زندگیشون گم شدن، که ترسیدن از آینده، که هرگز راه جدیدی رو امتحان نکردن و کمکم نگاهشون به زندگی داره رنگها رو گم میکنه و سیاه و سفید میشه...نمیگم این کتاب ناجی خواهد بود؛ اما لذت خواهید برد... با دو ک
و به اون‌هایی که با واژه "تردید" آشنا هستن و در راهی که پیش گرفتن چشم‌هاشون رو نبستن.که حس می‌کنن وسط روزمره‌های زندگی‌شون گم شدن، که ترسیدن از آینده، که هرگز راه جدیدی رو امتحان نکردن و کم‌کم نگاه‌شون به زندگی داره رنگ‌ها رو گم می‌کنه و سیاه و سفید میشه...نمیگم این کتاب ناجی خواهد بود؛ اما لذت خواهید برد...
و نمیگم تفکر نویی اینجا هست که تابه حال بهش فکر نکردید‌...
اما فضای تازه ای رو خواهید دید از دنیا و از نگاه‌تون بهش.
Simple but grand.
Sweet but really touching.
Makes you smile, laugh, and cry.
I would recommend every adult I know to read this book.
Just read it and you'll understand why I love this book so much.
I actually re-drew all pictures in the book and turned them into various big posters for a story-telling at one Summer School for teenagers in my neighborhood, back in Bandung, Indonesia.
You wouldn't believe me, but as I were telling the story, that such simple story, almost all kids were burst in tears, including an older kid, me.
It’s been a long time since I read it, but it never fails to charm.Recently I went on a hunt for it in this jungle house of books, but without success.
It’s about a caterpillar, Stripe, who is trying to figure out what the world is all about.
Nevertheless, Stripe jumps onto the caterpillar pile and starts climbing.Along the way he avoids looking into the eyes of any of the others he steps on or climbs over, but he eventually meets and converses with another caterpillar named Yellow and as a result of this, both of their journeys are forever changed.Don’t want to spoil the story for any who haven’t read it.
This allegory coudln't be more unsubtle.
Unless at the end the author was like "and like, the caterpillars, are actually like, PEOPLE.
And the strive to the top is like, our struggle in life.
And like, being a butterfly is..." etc.
The illustrations were cutesie pie though.
This is such a hippie book I don't even know what else to say.
It's hard to hate on such cheesy idealism....
I felt like I should be more impressed by the cute, universal message, than I was.
Maybe it'd help if I was less cynical.
Though I did like the "caterpillar pilar".
داستانی که به ظاهر برای بچه ها نوشته شده،ولی مفهومش رو خیلی از آدم بزرگ ها هم تو زندگیشون درک نکردن!."من یک پروانه دیدم،زندگی مفهوم بیشتری میتواند داشته باشد."
For those who wanted a free read, you may refer to this link.Review and Reflections:I was spending my idle time in my office desk.
The story started with Mr. Stripe, curious about the pile of caterpillars having the desire to reach the top.
She searched, found, then waited for Mr. Stripe to realize the desires of Ms. Yellow's heart.
Then one day, finally, they became the hope for the flowers.I want to feel the moment when Mr. Stripe met Ms. Yellow.
But what if one day, he feels the boredom?
I received this book as a gift, which I was grateful for, but I just couldn't get on board with it.
It can be read from philosophical, religious or political points of view, making even the story a bit too ambitious, which sounds ironic when we are dealing with a sparse, simplistic book that is in Paulus's own handwriting.I don't deny that this book took a long time to put together or that it isn't filled with the author's hugely passionate views and feelings, but in Paulus's attempts to make it everything, she has left it lacking.A big no for me.
You will read it through the filter of your experiences, background, and core beliefs.
What your core beliefs actually ARE may surprise you; your reaction to books like this may make ideas you didn't know you cherished leap out at you and say BOO!This is a "Marmite book"--you will love it or hate it.It can be taken a myriad of ways, and will.
But the fault if any lies not within our stars, but in ourselves.If it makes you happy, cherish that.If it makes you extremely angry, ask yourself why.If it leaves you indifferent...oh dear.Ostensibly it is a children's book.
I've first read this book when I was like ten.
It's been how many years now, and I still think that it's fantastic.This books is about the journey of two caterpillars, Stripe and Yellow, and the obstacles and problems that they faced before they both became butterflies.The story is simple, but beautiful and realistic.
It's about learning to give up and let go.
How each ending offers a new beginning.
It's about taking risks.
And the desire to see something more.The illustrations are really wonderful.
This may be a book for children's but I'm pretty sure that even adults would enjoy it too.
Oh this book was just wonderful!!!!!
:DThank you, Jerrel for letting me know about this book!
This was terrific!!
This was such a unique yet inspirational book!
This relates to life and shows the journey we all travel.
The question, "There has to be more to life?" Is what is focused on!
We try to find joy in being at the top yet we never truly see that God has placed true importance in us- and in Jesus we can become new!!
Now this book is not considered Christian yet this is a book that should be!
One of my favorite books EVER!!
Brilliant!!(:God Bless,~Mary Kate(:
شاید باید خوندنِ شُ دفعه یِ پیش ول میکردم، که این جمله رو امروز ببینم:«آن چه به نظر میرسد این است که تو میمیری؛ امّا آن چه واقعی ست، این است که تو باز هم زندگی خواهی کرد. زندگی عوض میشه؛ امّا از بین نمیره..»...پایان"یا آغاز...".پ.ن: قبل تر هم پگاه و معصومه پیشنهاد داده بودن ش
شاید باید خوندنِ شُ دفعه یِ پیش ول می‌کردم، که این جمله رو امروز ببینم:«آن چه به نظر می‌رسد این است که تو می‌میری؛ امّا آن چه واقعی ست، این است که تو باز هم زندگی خواهی کرد. زندگی عوض می‌شه؛ امّا از بین نمی‌ره..»...پایان"یا آغاز...".پ.ن: قبل تر هم پگاه و معصومه پیشنهاد داده بودن ش
My prof assigned me this in english lesson..I don't know how to report this bcoz I want the whole class to love and appreciate it the way I read and understand but didn't find the words to say..
It's just one of the inspiring book iv'e read..
Lessons I learned is that to be able to achieve your goals and to be happy..
this inspires me to let go of something in the present just to be able to achieve much satisfying in the end..thanks!!!:)
اما هیچ یک او را متقاعد نساختند.-«من هم این کار را دوست دارم.» اما این به معنی دست کشیدن از بالا رفتن بود، تصمیمی که اتخاذ آن آسان نبود.-او احساس حماقت و دستپاچگی هم می کرد زیرا هیچ وقت نتوانسته بود دلایلش را طوری در قالب کلمات بریزد که منطق راه راه بپذیرد.-آن چه به نظر می رسد این است که تو می میری اما آن چه واقعی است این است که تو باز هم زندگی خواهی کرد.-این خودش یک دل گرمی است بر این که در مسیر صحیح قرار گرفته ام.
اگر من ماده ساختن پیله را درون خود دارم، لابد ماده لازم برای پروانه شدن را هم دارم.-راه راه احساس کرد بدنش یخ زده.
This book is deceptively simple. It's for anyone in a relationship, anyone who wonders "is there more to life?", anyone who is trying to personally grow and to find themselves. Does that leave anyone out? It's sort of like a therapy fable. It took about 30 minutes to read, and it's the kind of book that you keep in your bedstand to pull out whenever you need to remind yourself that growth hurts and change can be very scary.
This is a children's book that is clearly from the time of hippies. It is new agey and goofy, but I still love it. I found it at the house of a girl I take care of, and was surprised by it when I read it to her. It touched me and hit me in a place that I didn't realize existed. I enjoyed it and I think others would, too (just don't take it too seriously, it is what it is). I also would like to say that I absolutely love the name of this book.
This was a required reading in my Religion 101 class in college in the early 80’s. I remember the plot – a caterpillar who went on top of other caterpillar trying to reach a certain height. I think it is a story of becoming somebody among the many who do not have dreams. It is very much the same message as Jonathan Livingston Seagull. The only difference is that these are caterpillars metamorphosing into nice butterflies while Jonathan is a seagull who learned how to be different by flying.
My father actually gave me this book so it has special connotations for me through sentimentality. The simple story is spectacular and sweet; touching on concepts such as isolation, peer pressure, independence, fear of change, prejudice and many more...yes this little book really does all that. I've read it at least four times to my daughter and every time she can apply its simple storyline to what ever happens to be going on in her ever changing, ever growing life
My brother bought this for my daughters years ago while they were still too young to appreciate it. It got put on a special shelf and was recently rediscovered - I finally read it. It was just as hopeful and charming as my hermano promised and gave me fresh encouragement that life isn't in the striving, but in the being.
I was trying to find room in my (seriously overcrowded) bookshelves for a book I had just finished reading and ran into this one tucked away—waiting patiently to be rediscovered.The book itself is a beautifully written and delightfully illustrated allegory of a caterpillar named Spike and his companion Yellow.
Finally, for the first time I looked at the title of the book after reading it.
“Hope for the Flowers.” Maybe I’m stretching the allegory a little….but I doubt the author will object.
The butterflies who allow the flowers to have hope.
The timing on reading this book is so strange because at this moment in my life I am EXACTLY like "Stripe", one of the caterpillers in this story.
I know something in my life needs to change, and I'm making my way down the huge caterpiller pile to find something better, but I am TERRIFIED of going into the cocoon and letting go of all I know.
But seriously, this was one of those life-changing experiences for me, and it's a book that I will cherish for the rest of my life and read to my future children or puppies.
It doesn't preach and you are free to read it like a children's story or to draw meaning from it.The story is about two caterpillars Stripe and Yellow, who are trying to climb up the 'caterpillar pillar', which is well...
as the name suggests, a pillar of caterpillars.
All the caterpillars are trying to crawl over each other and get to the top.So, do our protagonists join the rat caterpillar race or do they become non-conformists?The book is a great allegory about the true purpose of life, the choices we make, and putting things into some kind of rational perspective.
Oh, this is so early 70s. It took me back. I think I would have liked it better then, both as the younger me and in the era of 35 years ago vs. now. I guess it’s a mildly sweet story about taking risks and being true to oneself and avoiding mindlessly following the crowd. It was an incredibly fast read; if it had been a novel or other long book, I think that I would have abandoned it but it was a somewhat enjoyable read.
