https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/42956.Sayonara
Air Force flying ace Lloyd Gruver is pretty disgusted by the way his fellow servicemen are fraternizing with the former enemy and even, ugh, marrying Japanese girls.
Then he sees a stage performance by Hana-ogi, an actress who specializes in playing male roles, and he falls immediately hopelessly obsessively in love (I'll leave the psychosexual ramifications of that for someone else to ponder).
Without so much as a single conversation in a common language, the happy couple move in together, and Lloyd learns the important lesson that Japanese people are just as good as Americans despite their wacky heathen customs.
My Japanese mom's favorite movie, of course, because she lived it.
The movie is pretty true to Michener's tale but different, too.
The story is nothing new (Romeo & Juliet, West Side Story) but Sayonara adds the additional emotion of patriotism and disbelief how cruel the military and US government was after the war to these American-Japanese relationships.
The irony is, as alluded to in the book, these Japanese women were superior in the care of their men than any US born women.
Michener captures the injustice and emotions towards a race of people blamed for Pearl Harbor.
"the unhappiest men I know are those who are forced into something they got no aptitude for." Sayonara is the best love story I've read so far.
Its a story of privileges and high profile military personnel taking advantage of their status to live a comfortable life and even bring their daughter into japan and Ace , who is just arrived into Korea relocated into japan to meet his childhood sweetheart and fiance he is engaged to because thats the only way he knows.
there he gets to be one of his men's best man at his wedding with a japanese woman and meets an artist who turns his world upside down.
Okay, so I definitely recommend you read this one on your own instead of listening to the audiobook because the audiobook is, quite frankly, atrocious.
The more Lloyd grew to understand Japan and the more I believed he actually loved Hana-ogi, the better the story got.
Instead of saying what happened in his life, if he married, if he was still in the military all that time later, any of that, it just ends with him finally understanding the meaning of the word 'sayonara.' (which, if you know anything of the word, how this book ends really shouldn't be a surprise)
I began reading this somewhat as a joke, just as I attempted reading Shōgun several years ago. It turned out to be much better than expected, however. Still, it is so heavy-handed and melodramatic that it is certainly not a literary classic, but Michener knows how to keep a story moving.
If we were shown how laughable the American soldiers pronunciation of Japanese was, the Japanese characters attempts might seem more genuine and less buffoonish.The ugly: The attitude of the U.S. military and government towards "indigenous personnel" even amongst allied countries (France and Korea) reads as shockingly racist and phobic today.However, and from a more personal point of view, there was a lot about the book I found charmingly, even endearingly true.
A romantic fondness of the movie, despite Marlon Brandon, led me to this novel. I loved it then. I liked it now, perhaps with a certain nostalgia and fully recognizing its flaws, which are mostly based on "political correctness." I am not a huge fan of Michener's later works, but I was pleased to see Sayonara had endured in my opinion.
This is a real classic and racism at it's worst. A short book for Michener--I think his first--but a must read.

A real tear jerker about a time I have not studied.
Major Lloyd Gruver is a US Air Force pilot, who has earned the status of Ace by shooting down seven MiGs during the Korean War. He is also a West Point grad, the son of an Army General and dating the daughter of another General; military service is in his blood.During a leave in Japan, Gruver's commanding officer asks him to try and talk Joe Kelly, a fellow American airman, out of marrying a Japanese woman.
Prejudice against mixed race couples continues to be an issue and Michener's anger about the ways in which the Japanese were viewed and treated by the US military seems well founded.
There were clear problems with American policy on Japanese immigration, significantly borne by American GIs - what's new?
The dialog gets to be a bit stilted, at least in the audio version, as the narrator tries to convey the pronunciation difficulties of which Michener writes.
From what I've learned from others, Michener may have only scratched the surface of the difficulties encountered as the two cultures mixed.
The most telling line may have been something about her Japanese culture made him a better American, and his American culture making her a better Japanese.

This book was really tough for me to get through.
The amount of racism from both the characters and the author was appalling and deplorable.
I figured I could soldier through it to find out what happens to Hana-Ogi and Lloyd.
I actually found myself trying to avoid reading it.
There were a lot of cringe worthy moments in this book.
The only bright side is that it shows how absolutely wrong racism is and how it effects the lives of those involved.
You can give it a try, it's only 200 pages but the amount of racism makes it hard to get through.
Fairly short and certainly one of Mitchners shortest. The language, vocabulary feels very comfortable to me. ”loafing" is used periodically and is a description I had not heard until I met my husband. Not sure younger people would recognize it as a word for chilling, relaxing and generally being unproductive. Good background on pride, shame leading to honorable suicides, poor judgement of our military in Japan during the Korean War, excellent insight into American women and especially the kind of woman it takes to propel her husband into successful career.
I read Poland by Michener, which in my mind was a masterpiece of historical fiction. This was an earlier work of his and more of a pure fiction. It provided an interesting insight into race relations between the US and Japan in post war Japan. In theme and plot, it reminded me somewhat of Orwell's Burmese Days. The writing felt rather generic.
Another Korean War Novel. This one is centered on Japan mostly and is the story of an occupied country, one with which we had recently fought an awful war. This is the love story and tragic story of people, Americans and Japanese who fall in love. This story hit me hard as I spent my 20's in Japan and truly can relate most deeply to this story.
Accurate cultural portrayals as would be expected from Michener who was married to a Japanese woman. One of the few books I'd recommend for getting a sense of Japanese culture, and I've read a lot of them.
Disappointing after Tales of the South Pacific.
Like all of Michener's books worth reading again and again.
Sin duda uno de los libros en los que más pasión he encontrado.
"With our minds we can justify anything", this is the one quote I remember from this book, read almost 50 years ago.
I had to buy this book overseas as it was banned in South Africa. one of Michener's shorter books. A love story told with compassion and the odd bit of humour.
This has to be his best I've read! And I've read quite a few of his. Maybe my years in Japan made this book so special.
After visiting Japan this year where my son is living and working, I appreciated this very old romantic post-Korean War love story. It is too bad there was so much prejudice back in the 1950's.
Hell Racism, my old friend, I hope I never see you again.
Very dated re race and gender, doesn't hold up like many other Micheners.
I saw the movie years ago and enjoyed reading the novel. It's an easy read (not a typical Michener novel), and a well-written book. It's a beautiful story of love and courage.
However, this short novel is the first that includes some of the cultural and historical background material (in this case, mid-20th century Japan) that Michener would use so well to demonstrate how people both navigate through and are dominated by the larger forces of culture, history, and deep time.
Really, of course, it is these things that some of find somewhat ambiguous morally (if not repugnant) that make this novel worth reading: it's this sort of historical material that is interesting and necessary in helping to explain elite political and military culture in America and Europe 70 years ago.
Even if it can be slightly insensitive, compared to the extremely insensitive book I read *coughTropicOfCapricorncough*, it has heart, and a lot of it.The simple message that nationality cannot stand in the way of love is an important and one that resonates today and will until the fall of man, I feel.The ending, while sad, was fantastic.
Although this ending was beautiful, I'm a sucker for happy endings and they can be just as beautiful, so I plan on checking out the movie as well.*Spoilers End*All, in all, I know the book isn't for everyone.
