https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/37722.In_Search_of_Dracula
McNally and Radu Florescu (one American, one Romanian) and originally published in 1972, In Search of Dracula was the first book to draw a direct link between the Prince Dracula of history and the Count Dracula of Bram Stoker's novel Dracula (1897), who has gone on to become a ubiquitous presence in film, television, and popular culture generally.
The early part of In Search of Dracula relates the fictive Dracula to the real-life Vlad Dracula (McNally and Florescu describe in Chapter 2 an expedition that they undertook to find the real Castle Dracula; Stoker's wonderful novel notwithstanding, it is nowhere near the Borgo Pass of northern Romania).
A very good introduction to both historical figure of Dracula and knowledge of vampirism.
Based on ancient manuscripts, folklores, and field study of Transylvania, those efforts come out of excited-reading, well-written text which brings, Vlad Tepes, Prince of Wallachia, or known as Dracular back to life, and also his struggle, politics, and context of fifteenth-centuried Eastern Europe threatened by Ottoman Turk and Roman Catholics.
I became aware of my limited historical knowledge and wanted to read more and more.
This book is a good example of cultural history presenting you that there are always more interesting studied subjects than those presented by boring school textbooks.
It also seems probable that when the simple, superstitious peasants saw Vlad the father bearing the standard with the dragon symbol they interpreted it as a sign that he was in league with the devil."(Again, referring to the historical figure of Dracula...)"The progressive popularization of the Dracula story, however, was due to the coincidence of the invention of the printing press in the second half of the fifteenth century and the production of cheap rag paper.
This is one entertaining volume, one I can refer back to time and time again.
The writers give a very matter-of-fact account of the life and times of Vlad Tepes, occasionally laced with a bit of wry humor, and relate the legends that have grown around ye olde impaler.
From there, they take us through Bram Stoker and his background, and on to the celluloid versions of Dracula, all without pausing for breath...and happily so.
My favorite bits are the various legends about Prince Vlad told from several points of view, and how they compare with each other.
Very revealing, and always entertaining.
I love this book. It's the historical account of the real Dracula (Vlad Tepes). Historians Radu Florescu and Raymond McNally reconstruct the historical man and how he is related to the vampire legend. This is also just a groundbreaking history book--it's the first ever historical account of Vlad the Impaler, and I think it's extremely significant.
I first read the original 1972 edition of In Search of Dracula back in high school when I first began to really explore the backstory of the character and novel Dracula.
It proved to be every bit as exciting to read as the original!Like the original, the updated edition is not an overly scholarly work like the authors' other work Dracula: Prince of Many Faces.
For me one of my favorite aspects of both this and the original editions were the stories told towards the end of the book.
A small section of the book regard the vampire and related legends and stories in popular culture.I really cannot recommend this book enough, it is absolutely spellbinding and brings some perspective to roots and mechanisms into the vampire myths.
The movie largely ignores the structure of the book and focuses much more on vampire in popular culture, but it's still worth watching and a fascinating document of a time in history.
I am a sucker (ha!) for a vampire book.This is one of the first research works into the Dracula mythology, the book that cements the fact that Stoker's Dracula was, in fact, based on Vlad Tepes of Romania.
That the real-life Dracula committed horrific crimes against humanity is unquestionable.The book itself is 200 pages of history, literary and film exploration, and some interpretation.
The other hundred pages is bibliography, filmography, maps, family trees, and other appendix-typical info.There are times when it's obvious the writers are historians of some form or another, as the writing doesn't necessarily flow off the page the way one might like.
The Vampire Diaries are mentioned but there are only 3 books when this was printed.The pictures are great too!*Vampires that Greta recommends that aren't in the book*Only Lovers Left Alive - movie that has Tom Hiddleston shirtlessKresley Cole's vampires in her books Hotel Transylvania - Kid movieLet me In - movie about a kid vampire but not a kid movieUnderworld - movie also has werewolvesAll in all ...
There are lists of both.Also, a great book to learn about the OG DraculaAnd the pictures will make you want to visit Romania to find vampires and stuff.
This is an extraordinary book about the man, who's name has become a symbol for vampires... I want to thank to Raymond McNally and Radu Floresku for writing it... It was really interesting to me and very helpful. On the end, you have list of historical and fictional films and books about Vlad III.
I do love reading the history of where my ancestors came from. Interesting read
Vlad Tepes was a very controversial figure in history depending on what side you were on, and I was looking forward to learning more about him and why the people of Transylvania and Romania view him as a hero when much of the world sees him only as the viscious and ruthless Vlad the Impaler.
I was really disappointed that the authors were more like fanboys than researchers; they never once referred to Vlad Tepes by his real name, it was always "Dracula this" and "Dracula that," even when they were talking about actual recorded history of Prince Vlad.
It was interesting to see how Stoker used real world events, people, and places (along with myths and rumor) as a basis for his novel.
If you're interested in knowing more about vampires and Dracula in particular, this is the book for you.
A nice quick read that provides some really interesting tidbits on: the history of what became Romania in the times immediately after the fall of Constantinople to the Ottoman Turks, the differing accounts of Tepes (Ethnic Germans, who ran afoul of his trade policies, demonized him as “The Impaler”; Romanians glorified him as crusader savior of an area about to be conquered by the Turks; and Russians focused on his crushing of Boyar resistance (Ivan the Terrible was inspired by Vlad.) and his leaving of the Orthodox Church for Roman Catholicism.); and the emergence of the myth of the vampire from the combination of peasant superstition and warping of oral tales told about the abuses of sadistic nobles (Vlad as well as Elizabeth Bathory of bathing in maidens’ blood infamy.).Interesting Tidbits from In Search of Dracula:•	The abuses of common people seen under Vlad and other crusaders (Vlad, for instance, impaled not only Turks but his own people; he also, on occasion, flayed them, burned them to death, and enslaved them for building projects.
This seems to have been one of the first recountings of the life of the original "Count Dracula," actually known as Vlad Tepes, or "Vlad the Impaler," who makes the legendary vampire look like a model of decorum.
Vlad's father was known as the Dragon, Dracul, which was either an honorific or a nickname, and so the son was known by a derivative, Dracula.
The book also looks at his metamorphosis into a vampire and the history of the Dracula novel and vampire literature and filmography up to 1972 (but no mention of Dark Shadows!) Interesting stuff, not bedtime stories for the kids, but there is likely newer stuff out now.
This little book about the historical background and artistic legacy Bram Stoker's Dracula may be a little out-dated but it still made for some interesting reading.
The least interesting chapter is the review of vampires in film, etc.
Here and there I would find some other faults with the book - it is a little surprising how readily the authors trust the accusations of vampirism hurled at Elizabeth Bathory - but if you read this book with a critical eye and a grain of salt, I think you'll still enjoy it.
Being a comic book fan, I could not help but notice the authors' complete ignorance of the medium here.
There is not one mention of Dracula and vampires in comic books at all.
This might seem like a gripe from an angry fanboy, but I do not think that it makes much sense that in a scholarly work on Dracula and vampires that devotes space to films the authors admit are terrible, a Sesame Street Muppet, and a cereal box mascot that they should ignore outright the medium that gave us such superb works as Tomb of Dracula and others.
It's really more at the end of the book that it gives an overview of the many many vampire stories that we're still familiar with today.
Most of the book is about the actual vampire Vlad Tepes, the Impaler, Dracula.
He certainly gives his fictional counterpart a run for his money in terms of being larger than life--and often terrifying.
I really enjoyed everything I learned about the world he lived in and his place in it.But I'm certainly glad I never had to live as one of his subjects, much less go to one of his parties.
A brisk history of the real man behind the Dracula legend, his family and the repercussions of his rule, along with notes about the books, songs, poems, plays and films he has inspired.
Florescu is a native Romanian whose many times great grandfather was one of the assassins involved in killing Dracula, so he has strong personal connections to the history as well.
I was fascinated by the 15th century German tabloids featuring Dracula drinking his enemies blood, and by the fact that until the 1980's, no one outside of Romania seemed to know he had really existed.
how did people not know this?
This was one of the first books to link the novel "Dracula" to the historical Vlad the Impaler.
Not only does this book give an excellent biography of the psychopathic Romanian warlord, but it delves into authentic vampire folklore and vampire literature, especially Bram Stoker's work.
This is the essential book for anyone wanting to research Dracula, vampires, or Vlad the Impaler because it covers them all!Over the years I've consulted this work many times and I still rely on it for reference, especially in my own books.
In all that time, I've found only one or two points that might be corrected.Check out my own Dracula books here
The authors have written an engaging history of Vlad the Impaler and his family, of Bram Stoker, and of Dracula's impact on popular culture.I was interested to learn that the real Vlad didn't live in Transylvania; his castle was actually in Wallachia, and his military exploits occurred up and down the Danube.
Stoker put his story in Transylvania for his own dramatic purposes.Another fun fact to know and tell: Bela Lugosi didn't speak English at all.
He learned all his lines phonetically.The section on popular culture is looking a little hoary -- no sparkly vampires in this edition of the book -- but that's a minor criticism.
This was one of those books that our little goup of ragamuffin kids secretly sought out at the 'grown-ups' section of the public library that was attached to our elementary school.
This was, in effect, the first history book I ever saw!
I recently skimmed the book and I think the work holds up fairly well considering that there are now ten different weekly ghost hunting or world's scariest shows on cable every week covering the same material Radu did over 35 years ago.
Radu showed those camera crews how it's done, and he did it while standing up to the entire Soviet system.
Neither a history of Vlad the Impaler nor a collection of vampire folklore but a survey of the history and evolution of the Dracula character.
Best part was the copious (warning: gruesome) details about additional atrocities committed by the "Blood Countess" Countess Elizabeth Bathory, which I have not seen elsewhere.
Bonus: Includes travel guide.
Annotated bibliography and filmography.
Will likely be of interest to pop-culture aficionados but not helpful for scholars/history-lovers.
No Index :-( No Endnotes/Footnotes.Additional anecdote: Russian historical sources written during the time of Ivan the Terrible are more concerned about Vlad's conversion from Orthodoxy to Catholicism than for his violent autocratic rule.
well, what better way to praise the book.than to say that when I did eventually read Dracula, I was well armed with knowledge and the various back stories to the elusive creature.
It was through this book that I could finally see why Vlad Tepes 3 or Vlad the Impaler could be marked a vampire.
His crazy murderous rampage and then some have marked him as a creature doomed to be a parasite till eternity and it's a fun read for anyone who wants to delve deep into the vampire lore.
I would say this book was OKAY.
I like reading history and it is commendable the amount of work and expenses put in to find out about a legendary figure.
The book started well, however it spent quite a few chapters on war wit Turks.
I wish there was more about surrounding myths or at what point does Vlad becomes a Dracula.
Guess the legends have grown too much in comparison with the real man behind them.
Vlad seems to be a warlord who enjoyed war and death.
Wish there was some more on Vlad as a person, than as information that can be found ob Wikipedia.

This book was decent, but apparently I knew more about Vlad Tepes (Dracula) then I thought I did, because the chapters that detail his life and death were kind of dry and repetitive.
The chapter about Bram Stoker was short but informative.
Overall, this is a good book if you are unfamiliar with the "real" Dracula.
The chapter on Vampires in stage, film, and fiction is good, but my copy of this book was published in 1994, so it's missing 20 years of vampire media.
I would have enjoyed reading the author's take on how the mythology has evolved to its current state.
Very cool book - but a little history-text book heavy. Gives the historical background of Vlad Tepes (the Impaler - aka Dracula)& it gives the reader a sense as to why he was so, well, angry (not that it justifies it entirely). Then moves on to other eastern European folklore and accounts of true tales such as the Blood Countess (crazy bitch!) and Bram Stoker's insprirations of writing the classic, Dracula (which by the way I now want to read).
This is a history book, but it has enough cryptozoology interest to draw in non-nerds, I think. It is similar to the other book I've added by the same author, but not quite as steeped in history and detail, and therefore more fun to read. The two share a lot of the same information actually, but there's enough of a difference in the two texts to warrant a gander at both. Very interesting that the real person was actually a little scarier than the myth.
