https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/425174.The_Godwulf_Manuscript
I hear this Ace Atkinson guy is good, but I can't bring myself to read a new Spenser now that Parker has died.
Our detective dives into a bewildering world of morally suspect professors, randy rich housewives, crypto-Satanists, heroin traffickers, and the Boston mob.Spenser is not yet fully formed.
Quirk and Belson are here too, and Joe Broz, and somebody named Phil who looks like a first draft for Vinny.The plot is good, and there are two great shoot-outs near the end, each of which reveal something about the moral nature of the people involved.
He had provided me a lot of enjoyment over the years and had a lot to do with turning me into the crime-mystery fan I am today.Plus, while reading the obits his death, and the high praise that was heaped on him by modern mystery writers for reviving the detective genre in the early ‘70, I remembered why I liked him in the first place.
Parker claimed he wrote The Godwulf Manuscript because he missed Chandler’s Phillip Marlowe after he had read all the books and short stories, and it’s obvious that he was thinking of Marlowe when he created Spenser, especially in this first novel.There’s no Susan and no Hawk yet.
Spenser was a former cop who'd been fired for insubordination, and he was also a veteran of the Korean War. When The Godwulf Manuscript was published in 1973, he was apparently somewhere in his middle forties, which means that when Parker wrote his last contribution to the series in 2011, Spenser would have been in his early eighties.
Naturally, none of these will pose any significant problem for Spenser, but things will get very dicey along the way.Rereading the book after a very long time was a lot of fun, and it's held up very well, especially for a book that's now forty-three years old.
The Godwulf Manuscript has gone missing from the university and Spenser's been hired to find it.
But what does the stolen and ransomed manuscript have to do with the murder of a dope dealer, seemingly by his girlfriend?
And can Spenser figure out what is going on before being murdered himself?This is the first Spenser book and quite a good read.
While the story is called the Godwulf Manuscript, the aforementioned manuscript doesn't actually get that much action and is phased out pretty early.
The real meat of the story is the killing of Dennis Powell, a heroin dealer.
Parker's Spenser detective series kicks off very academically, literally.
A valuable manuscript goes missing from a Boston university and Parker's hero Spenser is called in to investigate.This gives Parker a chance to poke fun at stuffy academic types, while showing that Spenser isn't a total meathead himself.
However, Spenser is a tough guy and when things get rough Spenser gets tough.
Things do get rough.
The stolen manuscript turns into a bigger issue that Parker unfolds at a nice pace.
The web is intricate and never tangles.The Godwulf Manuscript is a good beginning to a long and fruitful series that I look forward to diving into deeper.
Another excellent novel by Parker. Spenser (spelled like the poet, with an 's', not a 'c') is a tough, noir detective. The plot had me guessing a fair amount & it was very well paced. Loved the ending. Well read, too. I'll look forward to more of these.
I picked this up at a secondhand bookshop last month and at first thought I'd stumbled onto a poor imitation of Raymond Chandler, complete with a bourbon-soaked wise-ass PI, dames in distress, and .45s singing like Philip Marlowe was alive and well.
How derivative, my snooty wise-ass reviewer's voice began...
If you like hardboiled PIs for hire and you've read all Chandler published, why wouldn't you want to see his archetypes doing battle in more contemporary settings, in this case a university campus in 1970s Boston?
He takes guff from no police lieutenant: "Quirk looked at me, then Belson .
Got that?' 'Can I feel your muscle?' I said." He's so tough he considers his bourbon cut with the addition of bitters or ice (I myself need a little water or, heaven forbid, a splash of lemonade in there).
They were sweet pickles, though." He knows how to deal with a cranky building super, but the right way: "I said, 'There is a dead person in room 13 & I am going to call the police and tell them.
Robert Parker is yet another author who I went about reading backwards, starting with his Everett Hitch & Virgil Cole westerns (which are awesome, by the way) instead of with Spenser, the detective that made him famous.What actually drew me to read this book at this point in time was a review from Orson Scott Card recommending the latest Elvis Cole novel by Robert Crais -- a series and author I'd never read -- that also mentioned Parker and his detective Spenser.
It's a bit old, but only a little dated which might be a minus for younger readers as there are some references that might be missed.
Like, "I made a bet with myself that ..., and I won."He's a bit over the top sometimes in these politically-correct days in his treatment of women, but we need to cut some slack and consider when it took place.
I'm not sure what to think about someone who can sleep with both a mother and her daughter in the same day - if I were younger, jealousy might come to mind...
Ace Atkins, who is the new voice of Spencer, was in my neck of the woods doing an author talk so I decided to begin the series at book one.The Line – ”Insubordination.
It’s one of my best things.”The Sinker – This guy’s tough, one I’d call Mr. Spencer if I knew what was good for me.
Spencer is hired by a Boston University to recover the stolen Godwulf Manuscript, an illuminated rare book.
When Spencer asks what an illuminated manuscript is he gets a good description:A handwritten book, done by monks usually, with illustrations in color, often red and gold in the margins.
A lot of characters in books I read come off as less funny than their authors seem to want them to be (as much as I like him, Elvis Cole is probably the best example of this...even characters around him say shit like “he’s not as funny as he thinks he is") but I found myself chuckling out loud at some of his smartassery.The plot didn’t start off as anything world-changing but it did blossom from a “missing item” case into a suitably complex murder mystery with the attending staples of the PI genre like the aloof and cold rich folks, suave mob boss with his ever-present ugly and violent henchmen, journalists with necessary inside information, etc.
The biggest reason was/is that I got the audio version from the library (thankfully I'd hate to have used an Audible credit on it) and the reader (Michael Prichard [whom I've heard read other books and do a good job]) ....left a bit to be desired.Spencer is a bit of a wise cracking protagonist and here he's involved with a rich privileged young woman (who's living as part of the wonderful people of course sneering at rich folk) and her family.
Curious though because Parker said in interview(s) later that he didn't create first name for Spenser.
However, on page 87 of paperback, Spenser (as I read it) is called Jim by two cops escorting him from campus.
Before I started reading the Jim Spenser (sounds funny) and Hawk series, I had read that Robert B.
Originally, the character of Spenser was to have been called "David," but Parker didn't want to appear to favor one of his sons over the other.
As far as I know, Parker used Jim Spenser's full name just this one time.
First Sentence: The office of the university president looked like the front parlor of a successful Victorian whorehouse.Boston PI Spenser (with an “s” like the poet) has been hired by a university president to recover a 14th century illuminated manuscript.
Spenser receives a 2 a.m. call and finds Terry drugged.
I’ve not read this book since the 1970s and it is an interesting cultural look back.
It is also interesting looking at Spenser in his later 30s.
What Parker did extremely well was description, dialogue and plot.
He often employed analogies—“The wet wool smelled like a grammar room coatroom.”—which put you right into his scene.
I didn't like Spenser, and that's a problem with a novel starting a series, one in a first person voice where Spenser is supposed to be your intimate guide into the story.
Part of the problem might be I'm reading way too many hard-boiled private detective series lately back to back.
The last one was Paretsky's VI Warshawski, and she too gets worked over at one point by mobster types--and in both cases, I'm thinking, gee, isn't that sort of holding a Neon sign over your head saying "look here for villain?" I stayed with the Paretsky though, because I liked her detective--Spenser however, just came across as a thug.
Wow, I can't believe this was published in 1973.
I also can't believe how amazing and well-written it is.
I had forgotten how much of a womanizer Spenser was before he found Susan.
In this book he sleeps with a mother and daughter within the same 24-hour period and sets up a date with a third woman in the end.
The daughter that he sleeps with he also saves from some sort of demonic cult rape.
But all this doesn't make the book cheesy...far from it.
Parker and Spenser.
It's sad that Parker has died.
Being a PI seems to have been far more work before cellphones and the internet. This 70s PI series has been on my TBR list forever and I’m pleased it kicked off well. Story was good and suitably gritty, lead character was entertaining and has aged reasonably well (a couple of books from the same era haven’t appealed because the lead characters have a sexist dickhead vibe when read now). I really enjoyed this book and look forward to the rest of the series, and am particularly keen on seeing Ace Atkins’ contribution.
I've been curious about the Spenser series for a long, long time.
I wish I hadn't waited so long to read one.
I really liked it.
I smiled a lot at the descriptions of the clothes worn by college students and the dialogue, man!
Everyone is "man." Lots of action, a tiny bit of very modestly described sex (which is good by me as I don't like too much sex in books).
The plot was compelling and I loved Spenser.
I will certainly continue the series and I won't be waiting long to do so.Highly recommended for a nice, quick, retro mystery.
Ahh, the first Spenser book. Heavily dated, but not in a way that affects the story; for me, it added to the story. And no one does dry dialogue like Robert Parker with Spenser!
As mentioned, I came into this after reading Night Passage, so I’m coming from the unique perspective of starting off with a later Parker book and then going to his first.
I haven’t read the other books, so I’m not sure how the character will evolve, but Parker was certainly off to a good start.My only real issue with the book is that I wished it would have focused more on the manuscript in the title.
Spenser is hired by a Boston University to recover an ancient manuscript, the Godwulf Manuscript, that was stolen and ransomed.
In the process of locating this manuscript, people start dying, and a young woman is set up to take the fall for at least one of these murders.
The young woman's parents also hire Spenser to clear her of the murder charges.I LOVED this novel.
I loved the dialogue.
Spenser's wit is hysterical!
a little less, but otherwise, I loved his writing.
Quirks character is an excellent support: he's dynamic and his straight-laced ways are a great counter-part to Spenser's wit.
Private Eye Spenser makes his first appearance in this witty thriller from Robert B Parker. The story was written (& is set in) the early 1970s & world weary Parker speaks his mind at every opportunity. This allows for some sharp & highly amusing dialogue throughout the story. This may be the first Spenser novel I've read, but it won't be the last.
Be warned: I am about to spoil the shit out of this book, so don’t read on if you’re not up for it.The Godwulf Manuscript gets going when the president of a university in Boston — unnamed, but from context it’s probably BU — calls in private detective Spenser.
Then he leaves without getting any answers from Terry or Dennis.So, naturally, when a couple of hoodlums break into Terry and Dennis’s apartment, shoot Dennis dead, and dope Terry unto incoherency, her last lucid thought is “must … call … that … guy … I met … that one time ….” Thank goodness she knows one person who she can count on as a true friend in this world!
Then a few years back, my wife and I watched a few of the Jesse Stone movies starring Tom Selleck and I discovered that there were a series of books by Parker on which the movies were based.
I bought the first book, The Godwulf Manuscript recently and for some reason it was the first Parker book I read.Spenser is a private eye in Boston, Mass.
Based on some info provided by the university security officer, Spenser checks out a female student, Terry Orchard, who is a member of a political group on campus, SCACE, who he thinks might have something to do with the theft.
There's no Hawk and no Susan (which some people might like - I just discovered she's a fairly divisive character; personally, I love her both for herself and for the fact that a smart Jewish girl is the love interest), but Belson and Quirk are there, as are several other characters that make me want to re-read all of the books to see if they pop up again.
Parker's Spenser novels (and probably the Ace Atkins ones too).
Spenser walks into a murder when he goes to investigate a left wing college girl who might be involved.
Spenser is also hired by her father to get her off.
He proceeds to bone the girl's mother and then the girl while doing his investigation.It is 1973 and the fashions everyone are wearing are quite dated for those of use who remember the time period.
I was only 9 at the time but I certainly remember the style.
This is a quick fun read and I am looking forward to reading the other Spenser novels.
The first Spenser novel is the best of the series, though closely followed in merit by "God Save the Child" (2nd) and "Promised Land" (4th).
Spenser himself is more than enough because he's still feeling his way as a p.i., and because his inner workings (choices, doubts, regrets) are more evident than later in the series.
The writing is tighter than later.
Some of the period detail (it is the 70s, after all) is a bit faded (clothing descriptions, revolutionary jargon), but the book is impressive.
Now I remember why the first book made such a good impression.
"Whether he's public or private, he works for the same people.""Next time you're in trouble," I said, "call a hippie."Oh yeah, that's the stuff.I encountered the Spenser novels in the early 1980s and became enamored.
I'd never read anything like them.Of course, I'd never read Dashiell Hammett or Raymond Chandler.
It took a smart mouth like Robert B.
Parker's detective, Spenser, to delight me and pull me into that world.Now, decades after I first read this book, I realize the legacy Parker was carrying on.
Rereading this book while listening to The Long Goodbye, I really appreciate just how well Parker pulled it off.
I like the author’s wit.This is the first book in the Spenser series: a private eye mystery.
Nothing unusual about the plot or method of solving the mystery, and some of the motivations and events might be a little weak.
He makes me laugh at unexpected times.
It’s not a lot of laughs - maybe once every other chapter.
But it’s rare for an author to get a laugh out of me.
So it’s worth it.The narrator Michael Prichard was very good.DATA:Narrative mode: 1st person Spenser.
Swearing language: none, other than religious swear words, but rarely used.
Genre: PI mystery.
