https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1121565.No_Picnic_on_Mount_Kenya
Any climber or traveler who has spent some time crashing through the brush, navigating off trail, guessing at what might lie above and the best path to it will appreciate Benuzzi's writing, which captures the essence of being outdoors, off the beaten track on an adventure.
It is not lost on the reader that the this is the vantage point of one who is restrained (actually prevented) much more than we are from enjoying "being out there." He distills his sense of wonder and appreciation into words.
And I enjoyed even more the view of life at the POW camp--really a microcosm of society itself, who would have guessed?This may be a book that will stick with you long afterwards.
When I described this book to a friend, he was upset that the POWs break back into the camp after climbing Mt Kenya: "That's not how an escape story is supposed to end!" But it's not an escape story; it's a story about taking enormous risk in answer to one's inner freedom.
But spirit of this journey comes through vividly -- for me, especially once the party is above the tree line.
As the vista opens out, so does the spirit.
And the chutzpah of breaking back in at the end is delicious.
There's no way I could recommend this book highly enough.
Let me first disclose that memoirs about war or books about climbing don't interest me at all, but I flicked through the pages and noticed the clear and precise writing which is something I always enjoy.
Not only is it written amazingly well, the story is also great - bored out of their minds in a camp, three prisoners of war escape to climb mount Kenya and then go back after two weeks (they never planed to escape to freedom due to impossibly large distances).
Rientrati al campo, vennero puniti ma la loro pena, 28 giorni di reclusione, venne commutata in soli 7 per l’apprezzamento da parte dell’ufficiale inglese responsabile del campo per il loro exploit sportivo.Una storia umana ricca di significato e che porta in sé una grandissima lezione di umanità: anche se la conquista della Punta Lenana, soprattutto fatta con le loro dotazioni, non è stato uno degli exploit maggiori della storia dell’alpinismo, è invece la motivazione dietro a questa fuga che emana uno grande sprone alla riflessione.
Not only did this book entertain you and swallow you up with the story it tells but it also teaches you a great deal from mountaineering, to Kenya and its history and World War 2 as well.
This book is very unique, starting from the plot itself, to the characters and the format.
After reading this book you will feel like you not only visited the POW camp but made your way up the mountain as well.
All in all, this is a brilliant book that is a must-read and one which is so cleverly written so that it makes you feel like you are alongside the characters the whole time.
What a magnificent little book!I won't dwell on the feat itself, on which plenty of other reviewers have commented, other than to say that it is quite astounding.
I only wish to comment on the writing: even without crediting his command of a foreign language, Benuzzi is incredibly gifted with words and has a wonderful eye for the humorous and sublime in life.
Poor modern man, amazed by the wonders of nature, can only describe these by comparing them with the monsters of our mechanical age!A great book from a great man.

This is truly an amazing book. That's because it isn't only a brilliantly written novel, with many breathtaking images vividly depicted in its pages. It isn't either because the story is actually true, and three italians really did such a incredibly stupid and beautiful thing as escaping only for the sake of climbing the beautiful mountain they saw from their camp. This is instead a book where the love for nature and mountain emerges as pure and sincere as few others. Really, you should read it.
Great adventure book about 3 Italian POW's in East Africa who escaped from their camp to attempt to summit Mt. Kenya. The book is extremely well written and one feels that you are there with them on their journey.
This is a fascinating true story of three Italian POWs in a British POW camp in Kenya during Word War II. They escape from the camp solely to climb the nearby Mt. Kenya, a peak that at the time had only been climbed by a few previous expeditions.
Far from detailed, this book just more or less goes through what happened. The writer has good humor every now and then.
Цю книжку написав не письменник, а колишній держслужбовець з тогочасної італійської колонії в Африці, який на початку 2СВ потрапив у британський полон.
Життя кількох тисяч військовополонених італійців у таборах у Кенії, тодішній Британській Східній Африці, було набагато лагіднішим і гуманнішим, ніж, скажімо, у нацистських чи японських таборах в Європі й Азії, не кажучи вже про сибірські гулаги...
Італійцеві втекти з табору, який охороняли місцеві африканці, було цілком можливо.
Навіть втекти до найближчої нейтральної території - тогочасної португальської колонії у Мозамбіку майже неможливо.
А про те, якою нелегкою і небезпечною ця пригода могла виявитися для втікача з табору військовополонених -годі й здогадуватися!
(view spoiler)[They escape to freedom, not as a destination where they would be free from their camp, but freedom as the ability to explore and stand on the mountain, which gains an almost sacred quality for the author.
(hide spoiler)]The book has extra bit of personal appeal as I attempted to climb the trekking peak of Point Lenana, the highest peak next to Nelion and Batian, the twin summits of Mount Kenya's main massif on a much easier excursion.
I gained an extra appreciation for their efforts and achievements and enjoyed the parts of their trip that overlapped with out chosen Sirimon route (including the Mackinder Valley and Lenana itself).
Benuzzi was held in a series of POW camps across Africa by the British.
The climb is a challenge but is more a time of doing, of making your own decisions and of freedom.
Recruiting a second climber and a companion to hold the fort at base camp, gives Benuzzi a team of three undernourished and untrained POWs to attempt a climb that only the best equipped and trained have managed to succeed at.Good to know that tales like this don't just belong to British public school life.
Instead, they decide to escape and climb Mount Kenya, which beckons from above their camp.
And it's quite fun.With none of the proper equip or recent training and no weapons to protect them from the wild animals of the jungle and savanna, the group (with the help of others in the camp) spends months fashioning crude implements, hiding them, and readying for the day of escape.
This book tells the absolutely mad story of three Italian prisoners of war that choose to hoard and cobble together supplies, escape, climb Mount Kenya and return to camp.
It is an astonishing read and was all the more sensational because of how obviously real a story it is.It is a wonderful mix of the all too practical - the number of biscuits left, how many hours marching per day - and the sublimely beautiful.
Benuzzi does not dwell on the feeling of being a prisoner of war, but it is clear that climbing the mountain becomes a purpose and a way psychologically of maintaining himself.
This is an engaging tale of three Italian POWs in Kenya during WW2 who gaze out of their camp longingly at Mount Kenya and decide to break out to climb it (and sneak back into the camp again several weeks later).
Benuzzi's youthful excitement at the enterprise comes across throughout the book; he's entranced by the wildlife and the extraordinary environment of the mountain.
However, that doesn't detract from it being a great read for anyone interested in mountaineering, Kenya or life in the microcosm of society that is a POW camp - or who just wants an entertaining story involving extraordinary preparation, audacity and perseverance.
The book describes in granular detail the entire effort to build equipment out of ordinary items obtained through trades within the prisoners' camp, and the adventures and the ordeal to climb the different levels of the mountain with different terrain, the fear and the actual confrontation with animals, and handling the challenging weather conditions.
It is difficult not to fall in love the with the mountains after having completed the book.The writing style is tedious: it is written by one of the three POWs that actually did the climb.
But, given that the plot itself has so much drama, the book is yet an enjoyable read.

A must read for mountaineers and someone looking for a real adventure read.
I have always been fascinated by Kenya and always will (it runs through my veins), which is why I picked this book up.
As a Kenyan looking for adventure, you won’t regret picking this up either.It was great to see the author praise the tribes that lived on the slopes of Mt Kenya who are formidable in character and beautiful in culture.
Also to go as far as mentioning what Mt kenya meant to each one of them.
Mountaineers are made of tough stuff, and this is especially true of the three Italian POWs who meticulously and creatively planned to break out of their camp, climb Mount Kenya, and return to camp while WWII raged around them.
Their ingenuity is inspiring, and their love of the mountain - and appreciation of the amazing opportunity that they took advantage of - is a great reminder of how to exhibit grace.
Since it was written in 1947, I’m sure his emotions about WWII were still fresh, yet his sense of humor and his deep love of the book’s pivotal experience really shines through.
I read this book years ago without any interest in the genre, let alone extreme mountain climbing.
I gave it a chance because it was a true story and not about a well funded adventurer but instead a POW.
It had me engaged the whole way through and at least 20 years later it still pops into my mind.
And now I won't need to search high and low for the title when the story comes up in conversation again.I highly recommend this book, even if you don't give a fig about mountain climbing, it is about so much more and absolutely rewarding.
The true story of an Italian WW2 POW who, interned in a camp in East Africa, decided to break out so he could go climb Mount Kenya.
His plan was to climb the mountain then return and break back into the camp, accepting that he had no realistic expectation of being able to escape, given their location and the surroundings.
A mad-cap idea, which he describes very matter-of-factly, with a dry sense of humour.
At times I thought he dwelled too long on the journey to and from the mountain, but overall it was an entertaining, inspiring, and above all a humane story.
What a fun story!An Italian POW in Africa decided boredom was worse than risking his neck on a climb of Mount Kenya - so he and a couple fellow prisoners escaped to scale the peak on a multi-week adventure. I loved his perspective on life and the practical things they did to try and prepare for the trip (MacGuyver-ing so much of their gear). The writing is not great, and he does tend to go on a bit too much here and there, but overall, a cracking good adventure story!
If a good book should leave you wanting more, this is a good book, I wanted to know more about what happened to them after returning to the prisoner of war camp.The rest of the book did not leave me wanting more, the descriptions are vivid and you feel for Felice as he tries to organise things. And for the whole party as they struggle with hunger, the weather, flora and fauna on their bid to climb Mount Kenya.
This is a story that painted a picture about life in a WW2 POW camp, and an adventure on Mt. Kenya. Full of details about what led to the climb, the climb itself, but most of all, the spirit of the the men involved. It is a story, universal to all men.... the need to live life to it's fullest, no matter the circumstances. My only wish would be that the author's paintings of this "picnic" had been included. I am amazed at how many details the author remembered.
An epic story of an escape and climb. The book is well narrated and paced. I'm amazed by the motivation and perseverance of the author; the lengths he would go to just for the sake of a few days of climbing.
Not the best climbing story, nor the best escape tale. But it is a one of a kind record of what men are willing to do to regain control of their lives. Having a goal and achieving it gave the men in this story freedom even though they knew they would have to return to captivity.
I was surprised how much I loved this - really colorful writing.
Fascinating story - a true story - of an amazing adventure. Brilliant
