https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/210404.A_Sand_County_Almanac_and_Sketches_Here_and_There
How is it possible that I earned a BS in natural resources (and slipping toward an MS in wildlife) without being required to read this book?
Aldo Leopold is often called the father of wildlife management.
He talks about the need for a land ethic, and it sounds very logical and obvious-- I have to remind myself that he wrote these essays before such a mindset was commonplace.
I can see him clearly, squatting in ice-crusted mud before dawn breaks over the marsh, his shotgun poking through the reeds and ears open to the sounds of approaching waterfowl, all the while silently creating poetry.
What a dull world if we knew all about geese! Nature is refreshing. Even a short walk in a park can powerfully clear one’s head. For whatever reason—perhaps because our ancestors lived in trees—surrounding oneself with birches and maples produces in nearly everyone feelings of warmth, comfort, and peace. And for many people, nature is more than refreshing: it is awe-inspiring, even divine. Natural environments are, for some, more uplifting than cathedrals. Emerson might have captured this strai
Leopold doesn’t say this in so many words; but he does something even more impressive: he illustrates this quality using short anecdotes and schoolboy vocabulary.His most philosophic contribution to the environmental movement is what he called a “land ethic.” Previous arguments for conservation were couched in terms of expediency: how national parks and nature reserves could benefit us economically.
Leopold believed that we had an ethical duty to preserve ecosystems and all their species, and that the aesthetic reward of wild nature was more valuable than dollars and cents could measure.I want to go along with this, but I thought that Leopold was unsatisfyingly vague in this direction.
Today it continues to sell about 40,000 copies a year, though apparently that was not enough or perhaps influential enough readers to stop the tide he saw rising as early as the middle of the nineteenth century, where shortsighted American corporate greed and consequent rapacious environmental destruction triumphed over what he called a “land ethic,” or a responsible relationship existing between people and the land they inhabit.
He asks the question: "Is a higher 'standard of living' worth its cost in things natural, wild and free?" Part I is written as an almanac of seasonal experiences at his weekend retreat on a sand farm in southern Wisconsin.
"There are some who can live without wild things, and some who cannot.
These essays are the delights and dilemmas of one who cannot." Part II are sketches of forty years of travels across the continent and the issues of conservation he had observed.
Aldo Leopold died the same year this book was written (1948) while helping to fight a grass fire on a neighboring farm.
The sandhill crane is there, for the clear reason that he is enamored of solitude, and there is none left elsewhere.
After years of study, I now think I know the reason.
This little circumstance, important for only an hour a day, for only one month of the year, perhaps for only one of the two sexes, and certainly wholly irrelevant to economic standards of living, determine the woodcock's choice of home.
This book was written almost 70 years ago and Leopold knew, even then, that what he was preaching was a lost cause.
Foreword A Sand County Almanac January--January ThawFebruary--Good OakMarch--The Geese ReturnApril--Come High Water--Draba--Bur Oak--Sky DanceMay--Back from the ArgentineJune--The Alder ForkJuly--Great Possessions--Prairie BirthdayAugust--The Green PastureSeptember--The Choral CopseOctober--Smoky Gold--Too Early--Red LanternsNovember--If I Were the Wind--Axe-in-Hand--A Mighty FortressDecember--Home Range--Pines above the Snow--65290 Sketches Here and There Wisconsin--Marshland Elegy--The Sand Co
Foreword
  A Sand County Almanac
January--January ThawFebruary--Good OakMarch--The Geese ReturnApril--Come High Water--Draba--Bur Oak--Sky DanceMay--Back from the ArgentineJune--The Alder ForkJuly--Great Possessions--Prairie BirthdayAugust--The Green PastureSeptember--The Choral CopseOctober--Smoky Gold--Too Early--Red LanternsNovember--If I Were the Wind--Axe-in-Hand--A Mighty FortressDecember--Home Range--Pines above the Snow--65290
  Sketches Here and There
Wisconsin--Marshland Elegy--The Sand Counties--Odyssey--On a Monument to the Pigeon--FlambeauIllinois and Iowa--Illinois Bus Ride--Red Legs KickingArizona and New Mexico--On Top--Thinking Like a Mountain--EscudillaChihuahua and Sonora--Guacamaja--The Green Lagoons--Song of the GavilanOregon and Utah--Cheat Takes OverManitoba--Clandeboye
  The Upshot
--Conservation Esthetic--Wildlife in American Culture--Wilderness--The Land Ethic
The prose is rich and deep, and draws the reader along into looking at the world through a fresh lens -- a lens that accentuates the ordinary and helps us gain a more proper perspective on life.I love this book.
I've read it many times, and have pushed it onto many a hapless reader .
I've taught it many times as part of the reading list in my college Nature Lit course, and have had numerous students tell me they were stunned at how good this book is, and how it changed the way they look at the world around them.Get it.
Aldo Leopold's A Sand County Almanac is a compelling blend of beautiful depictions of nature, personal opinion and reflection, and political commentary.
Leopold depicts hunting as a meditative process in which the hunter becomes part of his environment and develops an understanding of and respect for his prey.
It is interesting to hear someone with such respect for nature also acknowledge that he enjoys killing animals.
This is not to say that I haven't enjoyed wild turkey meatballs and venison sausage killed by the local hunters in my town, but hunting seems so barbaric.
This was first published in 1949, the year after Leopold’s death, but so many of his musings ring true today: how we only appreciate wildlife if we can put an economic value on it, the troubles we get into when we eradicate predators and let prey animals run rampant, and the danger of being disconnected from the land that supplies our very life.
When we see land as a community to which we belong, we may begin to use it with love and respect.”“There are two spiritual dangers in not owning a farm.
Along with scientific precision Leopold brings evocative imagery and an emotion at times ironic, but never overly so.The Almanac teaches us how to really see nature — how to understand a thing for what it is instead of what it is not.
The crowning jewel of the book is "The Land Ethic." He wishes us to see the land not as merely dirt, trees and water, but as a complex regenerative system that is beautiful and deserving of respect in its own right.
Leopold's life was cut far too short, and I can't help but wonder how much further America's conservation efforts might have evolved in the past 50 years had he lived longer.
In this collection of essays about the land he loved, Leopold shared his views as a conservationist, scientist and observer of life in lovely, often literary, prose that surprised me and hit an emotional chord.
His essay, Thinking Like a Mountain, brought a lump to my throat and an ache in my heart as he described how he once participated in the killing of wolves in his "conservation" work for the federal government, and how in doing so he learned what a great mistake and tragedy it was."Only the mountain has lived long enough to listen objectively to the howl of a wolf."
Simple as that.A foundational text on environmental ethics, A Sand County Almanac by Aldo Leopold was a master statement of one who spent a lifetime of thinking in terms of nature and who has meditated on the imperiled future of wildlife.
He built up his hermetic ideas into an exposition of an environmental worldview starting from a monthly calendar of natural cycles of plant and animal journeys, to some of the best sketches of nature writing ever put on a canvas, and concluding with an ethical sequence which unfolded like a jamming session of a philosopher in the underbrush of trees.One’s “prairie birthday” was clearly marked sometime in July:During every week from April to September there are, on the average, ten wild plants coming into first bloom.
Aldo Leopold is sooooo much better.
Likewise Leopold walks the walk when it comes to protecting the environment.
While this book didn’t pass the random page test, if you like authors like Thoreau, then you should definitely check out The Sand County Almanac, which is the bible to environmentalists.
First Page: There are some who can live without wild things, and some who cannot.
Page 20: Is education possibly a process of trading awareness for things of lesser worth?
If you are a die-hard environmentalist (or you just like to read poetic things) this book is for you.
By sun-up every squirrel is exaggerating some fancied indignity to his person, and every jay proclaiming with false emotion about suppositious dangers to society, at this very moment discovered by him.""Hard years, of course come to pines as they do to men, and the are recorded as shorter thrusts, i.e. shorter spaces between the successive whorls of branches.
These spaces, then are an autobiography that he who walks with trees may read at will."The book is not perfect, as there are references that need bibliographic notes and there are a few unfinished thoughts or incomplete conclusions.
The first set of essays, the Sand County Almanac, takes us through a year of observing nature at work on Leopold's farm.
He also supplies us with several formidable quotes and anecdotes on the importance of wilderness and conservation, especially in the later essays.
84) are two that especially come to mind.But Mr. Leopold is also a product of his time, and it shows.
In some respects, the work is as much an ode to hunting as to conservation.
208).Mr. Leopold, I beg to differ.I recognize that he - inevitably - carries assumptions of his own time.
in a time of gross disharmony over environmental policy, one would be well served in (re)reading this book to consider a well-delineated perspective articulated soundly.written in the late 1940's:...but wherever the truth may lie, this much is crystal-clear: our bigger-and-better society is now like a hypochondriac, so obsessed with its own economic health as to have lost the capacity to remain healthy.
the shallow-minded modern who has lost his rootage in the land assumes that he has already discovered what is important; it is such who prate of empires, political or economic, that will last a thousand years.
I mourn at the spot where wild honeybees have been evicted from the hollow of a eucalyptus tree and I admire the honeycombs the bees had built.Let Aldo Leopold speak to you, and who knows what you might notice in your neighborhood.
We will see a film called "Green Fire," and I can't wait to be with others who are still inspired by this man who lived 1887-1948.
Deep Green Passion, here I come.A quote from Mr Leopold: "One of the penalties of an ecological education is that one lives alone in a world of wounds." (p.
I want to tie this book to my heart like a kite and fly it daily.
I want to know my grandfather and father found Leopold long before I did.
I want the chance to talk to them about it, about conservation, about the way they taught me so much by letting me watch the way they loved and respected the woods, the lake, the pristine heartbeat of our wild places.
I want to memorize full chapters to be able to recite them to the trail on long runs, my legs becoming one with the timeless stories only trees can tell.
Mostly essays about Leopold's love and connection with nature throughout his life.
The second part, 'Sketches Here and There', is exactly that, essays about the places he has spent time in and his reflections on how we use and abuse these places.
Here Leopoldo puts his background in forestry and wildlife management to use describing what's happening to our environment and what the future holds in store if it continues in this fashion.It's amazing when you look at the fact this was written sometime in the 40's how relevant Leopold's concerns and warnings still are.
Powerful, inspiring, and passion driven is just a few words I would use to describe this book.
Anyone who doubts the importance of conservations needs to read this book.
His words were powerful and really made me think about what I believe and how I impacted the world I lived in.
" We reached the old wolf in time to watch a fierce green fire dying in her eyes.
But after seeing the green fire die, I sensed that neither the wolf nor the mountain agreed with such a view" That my friends is a message that everyone needs to hear and understand!
Passionate, thoughtful and with an eye for subtle beauty, Aldo Leopold's A Sand County Almanac (much like Rachel Carson's Silent Spring) is a Bible for the modern environmental movement.
He understood the connection between the health of the environment and the prosperity of mankind at a time when the science of ecology was still in it's infancy.
As population and environmental pressures make themselves more painfully felt, I believe Aldo Leopold's Land Ethic will prove more pertinent than ever before, not just to the health of the environment, but to the future of humanity.
To find out more, click here.Written from an experiential perspective, with a style that is often poetic, the main message of A Sand County Almanac is that the land is not there to serve us, but that we need to live in community with the land.
Community without land is empty, so by threatening the land we are threatening community.
The land, the people and the other species are all part of a circular system, which humans have disconnected from since industrialisation.
If we fail to reconnect with nature, nature will suffer and humanity will suffer.
During his life, the population had grown from 1.5 to 2.4 billion, an era of staggering out of control disruption.Part two presents observations, made in assorted times and places, about the damaged relationship between Americans and nature.
Leopold lamented that American culture lacked a land ethic, rules for living with the natural world, the family of life.
Hopefully, in its aftermath, important lessons will be learned and never forgotten.Leopold’s book was written “for people who cannot live without wild things.” As the swelling mobs surge into vast cities, our disconnection from wild nature is almost complete.
The war between the forest and prairie, the return of geese every March and cutting down a tree for firewood; these are just some of the things that Aldo Leopold writes about in his novel A Sand County Almanac.
The novel is split into four distinct parts, but every part of the book is about the environment, either how to save it or the author’s experiences of it.
Through interesting language that makes the reader hold onto every word, the author writes stories about wildlife and wilderness that make it impossible not to appreciate the outdoors.
No matter your interest in the outdoors, A Sand County Almanac will make you appreciate wilderness even more.
I had to read this book for a middle childhood education class that integrated social studies and science.
We had to read this book for our final exam and write 8 responses to 8 quotes we found in the book.
But I put off reading this book because I thought it would be boring and statistical.
I loved the author's thoughts and feelings about the withering and gradually disintegrating environment...even though this was written in the late '30s and published in the late '40s, his opinions and concerns are still very relevant today.
Though dated, Leopold's Sand County Almanac and Land Ethic are classics in the environmental/ecological/conservation world and well worth re-visiting.
I wonder what he would say now given the current situation in the field and in government.
Leopold writes quite lyrically like a poet and with depth of connection to the history he relates.
He poses some opened questions and relates some of the shortsightedness and errors made.
I find his approach refreshing in that he understands the land-human connection and presents this history honestly with an eye to different views, though he makes clear his own.
This edition includes the Almanac and several other essays.
I was overwhelmed and saddened by the information in this book. Even back in the early part of the century, the environment was in serious trouble. I worry about the future of our planet...with all we know about the rhythmns of the natural world...humans continue to destroy the wonders of our world. From aerial wolf killing in Alaska (thanks, Sarah Palin), to the trashing of the world by amazing amounts of garbage (WALL-E)...well things don't look good for future generations. Everyone should read Aldo Leopold...and be afraid, be very afraid of what humans are doing to mother earth.
The short descriptive chapters of the first two parts of the book, the second of which furthers the scope of the book to more remote locations and distant times, build towards the academic essays that make up The Upshot, the final section, wherein Leopold sets out to achieve the reintegration of the human and the natural world through his theory of the land ethic.To call the book visually emotive is to tell only half the story.
The great virtue of this part of the book, and arguably the greatest talent of Leopold, is the way in which he can create a connection between reader and every aspect of nature.
My kids loved the story of the tagged chickadee who managed to live for 5 years.So, I finished the rest on my own (the family assignment was just for Sand County Almanac) because I felt like I should read the full thing for reviewing.
Having just finished reading Atlas Shrugged, I found Leopold's viewpoint to be even more compelling; he argues that we need to see land as biota, rather than just soil and emphasizes that "a system of conservation based solely on economic self-interest is hopelessly lopsided." I enjoyed his comparison between Odysseus's murder of the slave girls and our continual destruction of natural places: until and unless we recognize the value in all living creatures we will not give adequate respect or attention to conservation.
This book exudes warmth.A Sand County Alamanc is comprised of three sections: the first is the almanac itself, within which Leopold describes his farm in one of Wisconsin's sand counties (so called because of their sandy soil), with each chapter comprising of a snapshot of one of the year's twelve months.
Leopold's prose is just gorgeous and infused with the love and wonder he feels for the nature he gets to experience on his farm.
Aldo Leopold didn't just enjoy writing about the beauty of the natural world from his farm.
