https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2836109-erak-s-ransom
Erak's Ransom is set between book 4: Oakleaf Bearers and book 5: The Sorcerer of the North.تاریخ نخستین خوانش: سی ام ماه دسامبر سال 2015 میلادیعنوان: آزادی ایراک - جنگاوران جوان کتاب هفتم؛ نویسنده: جان فلنگان؛ مترجم: فائزه اثناعشری؛ تهران، افق، 1394، در 320 ص؛ نقشه، شابک: 9786003531178؛ موضوع: داستانهان کودکان از نویسندگان انگلیسی قرن 21 مهمه چیز شبیه جادوست.
اسکاندیاییهای مهاجم میگویند اهالی قبیله ای صحرانشین رهبر آنها ایراک را اسیر کرده اند.
گروه کوچک رنجرها برای آزاد کردن او اعزام میشوند ولی صحرا برای آنها غریبه است.
در این راه، مهارت، کار بلدی و وفاداری ویل هم آزموده خواهد شد.
It would have worked great as a fifth book.
It's not because any fault with the writing, but because you already know how things are going to turn up for the characters.For example, at Tug's disappearance, nobody could have any doubts that the little horse would be all right since we already know he's with Will in books 5 and 6.
As it is, knowing how things turn up, it felt a little flat.So, on its own, not a bad a read, certainly not the worst of the series by any means.
This was the first book in the series that I was disappointed in.
Flanagan goes back in time to tell a story before Will becomes a full fledged Ranger.
I ended up feeling that books 5 and 6 couldn't be true to the same style of writing Flanagan usually uses to connect his stories because it wasn't possible.
However, this was not an interesting plot point because at the end of book 6, you know which female protaganist Will falls in love with.
Flanagan says that he wanted to tell of the separation anxieties between teacher and student as Will approaches graduation.
Lots of action, some battle scenes with clever tactics, etc.
This book features some poignant horse scenes (Tug, Arrow, etc.).
Main characters are Will, Halt, Gilan, Horace, Princess Cassandra, Erak and Svengal the Skandians, Setheren the Arridin leader (the Wakir), and Umar ib’n Talud, Aseikh of the Khoresh Bedullin tribe..I loved this one, even though Flanagan repeats things we already know, having read the six prequels (e.g., that Cassandra is aka Evanlyn, that a ranger's horse cannot be stolen, etc.).Ps. This book actually fits into the series chronologically after book 4, before Will becomes a fully fledged master ranger.
This book can better be read before book 5, because now I already knew how the book ended. Nevertheless this book was a lot of fun and I loved that they went on a journey with all my favorite characters in a new place!
This is my favorite of the whole Ranger's Apprentice series. I'm not totally why. Maybe because I love the horse race part. Just awesome. :)
Will the Ranger meets Lawrence of Arabia, and a good time is had by all (well, except for a little being chained to camels and almost beheaded, etc)!
No, not really Lawrence, but definitely Arabia, and the book is much the better for a little touch of exoticism and the lack of rain (I don't know why, but whenever I think of this series, I picture a guy with a longbow standing in drizzling rain).
I got kind of tired of the series last year, but had a yen to pick it up again, and I'm glad I did.
This just needs to be read in between books 4 and 5. I'm rating this book as if I had read it in its proper place. It is exactly what I wanted. It had such a happy-sad feeling that would be a perfect transition to the books where Will is on his own. Loved it, and I am loving this series!
(Halt's wedding, sweet remarks between Halt and Lady Pauline, Horace and Gilan, Will's graduation)*Adventurous!
*Diversity of Characters: One of the basic reasons why I regretted Icebound Land was that it is a monotonous narrative of Will and Evanlyn's life in Skandia.
Almost all characters appeared in Erak's Ransom along with new ones: King Duncan, Cassandra, Lord Anthony, Halt, Lady Pauline, Alyss, Jenny, George, Horace, Will, Gilan, Crowely, Sir Rodney, Umar, Selethen, Erak, Savengal, and many more.
I realized that Gilan and Horace's presence was crucial in any book, for their extreme sweetness, light humor, and cheerful innocence were indispensable :D ) Erak's Ransom is a masterpiece, John Flanagan!
3.5 stars Read all my reviews on http://urlphantomhive.booklikes.com It has been a year since I read the sixth book in the Ranger's Apprentice series and since I was looking for an Australian author to read for the Southern Hemisphere reading challenge, it seemed the perfect moment to pick this series up.For this book I've made the change from reading it in Dutch, to English.
I felt that, compared for example with book six, more things happened and there was more suspense (though it was limited a little bit with the fact that this book takes place earlier).
Okay, first, this book is non-chronological with the rest of the series so-far.
it doesn't offer any spoilers or anything really of value where it is in sequence (out-of-chronology), so I'd suggest reading the books in this order (so far)1-2-3-4-7-5-6I'll edit my book 5 review to reflect that as well....anyway, I really liked this book as well.
As I've said on all the other ones in this series, it's candy fiction.
This one takes place in a north-africa-type setting.
All the civilizations in this series are based on real historical ones.
I've mentioned elsewhere that the merits of such a setting are debatable, but whatever.Anyways, it was a page turner.
The best, so far, in this enjoyable series.
Wait a minute, where were they actually?(By the way, story wise it was between 4th and 5th book, so I read this before the 5th, but it was the 7th book of the installment) (view spoiler)[Taken time some years after the peace treaty had signed between Araluen and Skandian, Svengal took a liberty to crashed at Halt and Pauline's wedding party, brought the news of Oberjarl Erak's hostage situation by the Arridis.
In the first book, we saw that little dubious boy, uncertain of his own feet and eyes.
Another strong addition to the Ranger's Apprentice series!Look, I literally cannot dislike these books, you guys.
Especially when Will lost Tug. I was for serious about to burst into tears until I realized that Tug shows up in book six, which happens after book seven, and then my faith in Will was restored.Another thing I quite liked in this book was the return of Evanlyn!
Gilan too, whom I forgot that I loved so much.So, tl;dr, I liked this book.
Although I liked the return of many of the characters, Alyss and Evanlyn's rivalry seemed forced and kind of out of character for both of them.
اول اینکه بگم، بعد از اینکه اینقدری که من این کتاب رو خوندم یه کتاب رو بخونید، آخرش یه سری عیب پیدا می کنین که باعث بشه کتاب پنج کامل نشه.ولی من اینقدر با کل این مجموعه خاطره دارم، اینقدر که تموم شخصیت هاش برام عزیزن، به جز پنج چیز دیگه ای نمی تونم بدم بهش.
داستان ویل که پنج سال گذشته رو همراه هلت و با پشتیبانی اون گذرونده و حالا مجبوره به زمانی نزدیک بشه که مسئولیت های یه رنجر کامل رو برعهده می گیره.
من خیلی خیلی دوست دارم این کتاب رو، اگه تا حالا مشخص نبود :))----نثر جان فلانگن فوق العاده ست و حرف نداره.
Good sound plot, memorable characters, satisfying action scenes, near-death in the desert, traitors, bargaining, horse-racing, archery, and a princess with a sharp turn for bargaining--as well as a mean slingshot.
The quality of this novel is even more remarkable considering this is the seventh book in the series, although the author has wisely tackled story lines in single books or pairs, not tried to carry a single plot throughout.
In fact, this book is set at an earlier time than the previous two, which is problematic only because you know the main characters must have survived.
This goes back in time in comparison to the last two books by being in the time period when Will is still an apprentice.
But Will goes through some really trying times.
There are also many of the best character in this book, sort of like a celebrity version of it.
But that makes it so that many times you forget they're there and they fade into the background, if you don't remember they're there, they're not important enough, and you don't care about them.
I think if John Flanagan had released this book before the last two it would have been more exiting to read.
It was based around the capture of a an old friend ( almost adversary ) Erak one of the Skandians from previous books.
The one thing that did save this book for me was the horse race in the desert.
It was a brief race but it was thrilling.The author did state that this entry in the series went back a little ways.
Sometimes this is the problem of not reading books in a series you can miss and forget certain things from the previous novels.
This is the double edge sword of reading series books; other books inevitably get in the way.
Nothing but love. I adore the characters in this series. Yes this novel falls out of order but that doesn't mean it is any less meaningful. I like it as much, if not, even more than a number of the others in this series.
This book was a big relief! After reading the sixth and seventh in this series and being greatly disappointed I had low hopes for this one but it was totally awesome! SO exciting and funny and fast paced, it gives me hope for the rest of the series!
خوب اخرین جلدی که از این کتاب رو خوندم موقعی بود که سوم دبیرستان لودم الان خیلی گذشته و از موضوع اصلیش هم دور شدم!حالا ایشالله سر فرصت اینو میخونم!الان عیده ترجیح میدم چیزیو بخونم که بتونم سریع باهاش ارتباط برقرار کنم نه کتابی که اسم نصف شخصیت هاشو دیگه یادم رفت!
i didn't enjoy it that much because i had already read books 5 and 6 so the suspence was tiresome and i already knew everything would be oke.
Oh, I liked this book quite a bit!
Well, not to give anything away, but I loved the beginning, which delved into the personal developments in the lives of some of the main characters.
The overarching theme is that Will is on the verge of becoming a full-fledged Ranger, and even though he's just about completed his apprenticeship, he doesn't feel like he's really ready to be on his own.
There were almost "too many" characters caught up in the main events, so frequently I'd even forget that Horace or Gilan were there, too.
But other than that, this is still a great story and a fun entry in the Ranger's Apprentice series.Will and Halt are sent on a mission to deliver Princess Cassandra (Evanlyn) to ransom Erak, the leader of Skandia, ally to Araluen.
But everything goes pear-shaped when the Arridi kingdom reveals that Erak isn't in the city and they have to go find him and...
yeah, I said pear-shaped, right?The epilogue is where Will actually graduates from Apprentice to full Ranger (which is where we saw him in books five and six) and that was great to see.
I read the first half of this series several years ago and I remember that I really liked, so when I was reminded of it by chance a few days ago I thought I would take it up again.
This book had a lot of nostalgia helping it along for me, but I still believe that this is a very enjoyable read.
The adventure and the characters are fun and it was nice to read about Will and the others after 8 or 9 years.
But all in all I think this (and the rest of the series) is thoroughly enjoyable read.
"...if you wait till you think you are ready, you'll wait all your life."
Absolutely love the Ranger's Apprentice series! Being back with Will, Halt, Horace, and Evanlyn is like being back with good friends! Can't wait to read on in the series.
I enjoyed this book. If I had one complaint it was the fact that book 5 talked about Tug. It sort of gave away the ending of the whole "Will lost Tug" section. I knew that Tug wasn't dead because Will still had him in book 5 and book 6
it was really cool, i got really sad when tug went missing after the sandstorm and when arrow got killed by the lion.
Great story. While it didn't really hold any surprises, it also wasn't totally predictable. It's lack of surprises didn't take away from the story though, and I was excited to see what would happen next every time I read.
