https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/114171.Cordina_s_Royal_Family
Two stories of a royal family with three siblings.
The first story is about Princess Gabriella after her escape from her kidnappers.
Her family hires an American bodyguard.
Reeve is an ex-cop with instincts to handle many situations.
The only situation he cannot handle is his feelings for the Princess.
The second story is about Alex, the oldest sibling and successor to the crown.
He fell for Eve many years ago but never let his feelings show.
After, many years later, Eve is back and this time, Alex is not going to let her go.
Loved both the stories!
I am convinced that there isn't a single book Nora Roberts can write that I don't fall in love with! I love her characters, the setting descriptions are gorgeous and the plots are phenomenal! this two story book is part of a series I had no idea even existed, but am so glad to have gotten! Can't wait to get my hands on the others!
I've read this book before - in fact this is the second time I've read this particular series. Nora Roberts never fails to keep me entertained. In my opinion, one of the best authors I've ever read.
Really this whole story made me think maybe I could read all of Nora's romances.So this book was published in 1986, but I'm still blown away at how often a character smokes a cigarette.
Outside of the occasional cowboy, I've never read a character smoking.ALEXANDER:So in the first book, I really felt like Alexander had no personality, and I wished Bennett had the second book.
I changed my mind quickly.Eve and Alexander were vastly different from Brie and Reeve.
They talk about the smell of the hospital, how could they even tell?The sex scenes with Eve and Alexander were much sexier.
Gabrielle and Alexander's stories are covered in this volume in two stories titled "Affaire Royale" and "Command Performance""Affaire Royale" takes place after the Princess Gabriella has been found amnesiac after her kidnapping.
If you are a fan of Roberts and her Cordina series I would definitely recommend "command Performance" while it is pretty much necessary to read "Affaire Royale" first to truly understand the book I would say that most are going to enjoy this one better then the first.
I would say when you read each book individually they are OK books, but when put together in one book so you can continue the story more seamlessly they become a better story.
I enjoyed the second book better.
Roberts writing evolved quite a bit since the time these stories were written, her character development is a little thin in these stories but I think that was more because of the style of the time than her writing ability.Overall, I enjoyed spending time in Cordinia and it was a nice way to spend time on a weekend while unwinding from the work week.
je lis Nora Roberts a chaque fois que j'ai besoin d'une brise d'amour , de couleurs et de douceur surtout après un thriller ou une histoire qui me bouleverse ... Celui là contient 2 histoires classiques de la famille royale de Cordina .. Fidèle a elle même avec un style fluide , une description joyeuse du cadre royal un peu vintage comme un conte de fées , mais au bout d'un moment ça devient répétitif et très nian nian ... anyway , c'était l'indication parfaite après Cujo qui me hante toujours ...
I love Nora Roberts and her stories and I’ve read some that didn’t have both stories made to go together so I love that this one did.
I think that’s what really kept it interesting for me - even though the first book was about Brie and her life and the second story wasn’t, we still know how she’s doing and what’s going on and vice versa.I’ve never given five stars before, maybe I’m a sucker for love or maybe it’s my intrigue for royalty but this book definitely had me hooked from beginning to end!
I thought this was an interesting introduction to the writing style of Nora Roberts which has been praised by my female relatives for so long. The first story I found dull, predictable, and bland. However, it was worth reading for the second story presented which made up for what the first one lacked. I actually liked the characters it followed and their chemistry was much better than the previous story. While also a little predictable, I didn't mind for the cute romance it provided me.
This was my first time reading Nora Roberts. I really enjoyed both of the stories captured in this novel. I loved the mixture of mystery, romance and royalty. I usually don't enjoy contemporary romance but this added the right fairy tale romance and it was so tastefully written, that the spicy scenes were not over some of over described. I look forward to reading the next book which includes two stories as well.
Two stories in a series.Royal Affair left you hanging, but some of the loose threads tied up in Command Performance.Series based in a country called Cardina and follows the royals who have been threatened by criminals.
I Love romance novels that have suspense, drama or intrigue entwined. This book didn't disappoint, I couldn't read it fast enough to see what would happen next. Great characters and plot.
Normally, it only takes me a few days to read through a Nora Roberts book. These short stories were actually hard to get into.
A guilty pleasure! I actually got quite attached to the characters and the mystery even though it was very light.
It was actually two stories. One of Nora's more "harlequinest," but enjoyable, if you believe in fairy tales! Which secretly, I do. The fairy tales where a prince swoops in!
These are two of the older Nora Roberts stories originally published in the late 80s. If you’re a fan, definitely check them out. They’re on the more fairytale and sentimental side of her work.
Another great couple of books by nora. I loved both couples. Steve was a bit standoffish but love changed him. With ale x i loved seeing his composure break though not for the reasons it did.
Loved it. The two stories were amazing in true Nora Roberts style. Couldn't put it down.
very good book. can't wait to start the next one!!
Reeve MacGee is in Cordina because Prince Armand asked him to come after Gabriella was kidnaped.
Prince Armand wants Reeve to protect Princess Gabriella.
Eve has been to Cordina several times over the years and is friends with the royal family.
Eve and Prince Alexander have had some disagreements over the years.
Prince Alexander is involved with the theater in Cordina, so Eve has to deal with him to make the arrangements for her company to perform there.
Eve and Prince Alexander end up spending a lot of time together discussing things related to the acting troupe.
Creating a enchanting picture of every girls fairy tale with a unnerving twist Roberts is able to place you in the palace surrounded by love and family, but barely beyond the walls lies danger of criminal minds.
Roberts does an excellent job of highlighting the Royal family's importance, giving each member of the family a sense of loyalty and allegiance, but she keeps their many emotions aligned with your common average Joe. The novelty of the family is in the eye of the beholder when it comes to the view of the palace, within the walls lain normal people with sturdy minds, family commitment and loyalty and the need for love.

It me a little longer to read (due to business) but my immersion into the book never waned.
I can't wait to read the next book.
I enjoyed the spunk and humor.
*wink* Great HEA.Command Performance was another great book.
I liked the characters, can't wait to read the rest of the series and see what happens with Bennett, the suspense was good, emotions were empathetically written and felt, there were (of course) some good steamy scenes, and a plot that kept me interested without dragging along.
Great HEA and another bad guy gone.
Enjoy!
Alexander and Eve wasn't my favourite.
I didn't like Eve at first, it was too annoying her obsession to be on equal terms at all times, they just wouldn't make compromises, not one bit.
At first I was intrigued by Alexander, but he lost me when he almost choked Eve and kissed straight after, and I was disgusted Eve didn't slap him, but went to bed with him instead...
At the end I started to like Eve more, but not Alexander...
Affaire Royale: Adorable!
The mystery was intriguing and kept me guessing until the end.
The mismatched pair clicked so quickly and fiercely that I really enjoyed watching them dance around it before finally just going for it.
I can't wait to read about her brother, Alexander, in the next novel in the series.Command Performance: Lovely story.
I really enjoyed meeting Alexander.
The story flowed well and the characters were well developed.
I enjoyed the little mystery and suspense and Nora did a good job concluding the story but leaving room for Bennett's story to come next.
Command Performance - OkRoberts, Nora - 2nd in the Cordina's Royal Family serisIn Eve Hamilton's youth, His Royal Highness Alexander de Cordina played the part of a fairy-tale prince.
But seven years ago Eve had learned that its villains were undeniably real, and put her childhood dreams behind her.
Now Alexander?s request brought Eve, along with her theatrical troupe, back to Cordina.
She still took his breath away, but it soon became clear that the dangers wouldn?t remain in the past -- and neither would the desires.I'm not big on the faux-royal family books, so this was only okay for me.
Gabriella's story: "Affaire Royale": Her Serene Highness Princess Gabriella de Cordina, known to her friends and family as Brie, was found running along a rural road like a woman possessed before she passed out. Coming back from the brink of death, Brie can’t remember anything. No one around her looks familiar; not her father, Prince Armand, ruler of Cordina, or her brothers Alexander and Bennett. Not even the handsome man who has come to protect her from an unknown danger ...Read the rest of my review at my book blog.Alexander's story: "Command Performance":REVIEW TO COME!!!
This novel is one of the most romantic novels that I have ever read. Generally, I hate romantic books because of their lack of logic and, at times, a persuasive plot line; but this book had both, and the language was so beautiful. Its characters are both strong and interesting in their own way.The only concern I have, is its lack of strong research on the part of how the royals live. Although I am poorly informed of how the other half lives, I'm certain it is more complicated than is depicted in this novel.
Nora Roberts is always my "palate cleanser" after reading a book with a more intense message. It's always wonderful to settle into the comfort of one of her romances
So, the first story was pretty decent, and the second one had promise.But what ruined the second story for me was how gross the romance was. The guy was overly aggressive, forcing himself on the woman, even admitting at one point that he wanted to rape her. It just felt like she didn't have much agency in their relationship.Also, in both stories, there wasn't a good balance between the romantic plot, and the ~political intrigue.
