https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/174873.Saint_Francis_of_Assisi
Frederick Buechner once fondly criticized Chesterton with the comment that he'd written entirely too much for all of it to be excellent.
I can sympathize, so long as I mention the fact that I've not yet found any of his "less than excellent" work.
This book was delightful, short, and densely packed--the written version of a small piece of extremely rich cheesecake.
You might as well hike solely in order to lose weight, or make love to your wife for the sole purpose of manufacturing babies, ignoring all of the pleasure to be gained from how delightful God made the path.
Il santo non è un superuomo, è un uomo veroQuesta non è una biografia vera e propria, direi che si tratta di una specie di ricerca del luogo della santità in Francesco partendo dal suo sguardo sul mondo, dal suo sentire, dal suo operare, partendo cioè dal suo essere uomo.E' un libretto esile, di poche pagine, ma ricco dell'intelligenza debordante dell'autore, della sua ironia esuberante, del suo gusto per il paradosso e anche della sua schietta e semplice religiosità.Come si fa a non amare Chesterton?
I am feeling little desperate after reading this book because I am part of the Franciscan culture and unable to live like St. Francis lived.
When Chesterton presents those days of St. Francis earthly life it was really a moment of inspiration for me.
I read many books about St. Francis, heard many stories about him in my first year onwards.
During novitiate time our batch completed the book St. Francis of Assisi: Writings and Early Biographies, English omnibus of the sources for the life of St. Francis.
Chesterton told the story of St. Francis in an entirely different manner.
The fullness of life and truth and God is beyond what the heretic can understand.
The heretic, by narrowing God, wants to control Him. The heretic will not embrace a fullness of truth if that Truth is bigger than the heretic himself.
Mohamed wants to control God, to contain God within the confines of his own mind.
Mohamed wanted to simplify God and make him more rational, more understandable, more sensible.
Pagan myth had suffused nature with pre-ordained images and associations.
Once those images were purged from the mind, man could see nature in its pre-pagan innocence.
By the time you finish the book you can easily believe that the spiritual seeds Francis sowed during his brief life are still bearing fruit.Of course with any human system, things degenerate in the end as some followers become fanatical and lose the original vision in the passion for their own agendas, and in the last chapter Chesterton deals with how this began to happen with the Franciscan movement about the time of Francis' death.
Chesterton makes a case the the Pope and the Catholic Church did the right thing by incorporating the movement into its fold and giving it the official stamp.
This book read more like one of Chesterton's personal dilemmas - complaining that historians write about historical figures without giving historical context. He rambles on about how to write a good biography rather than teaching the reader. I found it difficult to read. St. Francis is awesome though.
Francis loved a gospel that was so simple that the village idiot could understand it.
"St. Francis walked the earth as the pardon of God." There is much to love in Francis and much mimic in his walk towards Christ.
He explains that it makes perfect sense that this first Italian poet (Francis) should never have heard of Virgil.
GKC wisely points out that it would make no sense of Dante would not have heard of Virgil.
Each man serves God in truth, goodness and beauty but on separate and equally relevant paths.
Read this for a retreat I took with John Michael Talbot back in 1998.
Finally reread it or rather re-listened to it.
In light of our new Holy Father's choice of a namesake, I want to listen to it again.
As such we moderns like to pick and choose aspects of medieval lives we understand and disregard the rest.Chesteron's biography is devoted to highlighting the ambiguities associated with clinging to some partial view of St. Francis to the expense of his totality, however challenging it may be for us.
Faço por não me pronunciar de forma negativa em relação a livro algum, mas sinto que a pobre classificação que lhe atribuo merece uma justificação breve.
G.K. Chesterton escreve uma biografia de São Francisco polvilhada de opiniões pessoais que desde o início me aborreceram, tais como uma ode triunfal à Idade Média como período de purificação pós-pagão, séculos de negrume.
São Francisco não era pagão e 2.
Francisco não é abalado por esta "afronta literária", agravada pelos inúmeros erros ortográficos e de concordância da edição que li.
An amazing and insightful spiritual biography that's light on factual details, heavy on context and depth and chock full of Chestertonian wit and wordplay.
This book was written early in Chesterton's career, and soon after he became a Christian, even though St. Francis had always inspired him as a young boy.
Francis seems almost impulsive in his fervor to do God's will - actly rashly at times in ways that get him into trouble (with his family, the law!) but always with the best of intentions.
This book was well-done, although, as with Chesterton's book on St. Thomas, I wish I was better educated than I am on medieval history and the classics.
Chesterton is, in my opinion, an ideal author for this reflection on St. Francis (it's not really a biography, more of an extended musing). Everybody loves Francis, but very few really get him, so the world ends up brushing aside the full personality of the man (a great loss). GKC gets Francis. This book does much to restore the full picture of Francis, and beautifully so. If I could I'd quote the whole book at you.
G.K. Chesterton puts forth a masterful piece of literary work describing the life of St. Francis of Assisi.
He first puts St. Francis and his life into historical perspective.
Why was his ascetism necessary?
Chesterton answers these questions.Next, he describes what drove St. Francis to his life and then his life.
He then puts perspective into why St. Francis would throw himself into the fire of the Mohammedans.
Finally, he touches on the miracles, why they were left out of this biography, and why they shouldn't have needed to be.Chesterton is wonderful, as always.
Both enjoyable in their own way, but after 800 pages of that contemplative, gentle gloom peculiar to Tolstoy Chesterton's vigor (one can imagine the quick, definite strokes of his pen, the delighted dance of his writing across the sheet), is definitely needed.Wonderful stuff.
Francis, I think, is not so much fun as Aquinas, for he is a little more frightening.
(Throughout the book, he reminded me disconcertingly of my quick, unnervingly cheerful little math teacher, of whom I am slightly afraid.) Nevertheless, this book was--I can think of no other phrase--good for me.
A Warning:If you are a person new to the life of St. Francis and if it is your objective to know more of the saint's life then this is not the book for you.
Chesterton himself says that this is just an introduction.
But I would say that this is not an inclusive and appropriate introduction into the saint's life for the new and inquiring person.But if you are well aware of the life of st.
I picked up the book hoping to read a thorough biography of St. Francis, and though I was moved by the Franciscan anecdotes the author shared, this is largely an overwrought essay by G.
I was itching by page thirty to burn the book, written in 1924 though my yellowed paperback was printed in 1957, but after reading positive reviews which referenced actual biography in the book, I pushed on.
And though the book is still light on the events of St. Francis's life, the pace picks up and I closed the book mostly satisfied and certainly moved by the optimistic, selfless, artful existence of this troubadour from Assisi.
He reminds me of C.S. Lewis in that they are both writers of Christian Apologetics but Chesterson knocks Lewis's socks off.Chesterson says that we can only understand Francis if we think of him as a troubadour of the Middle Ages and accept the fact that he loved God with the passion that we normally associate with romantic love.
Chesterson also talks about early Christianity being a turning from the nature worship of the Greeks and the Romans.
Although I can't quite accept that I agree with his opinion that St. Francis brought reverence for nature back into the Christian religion.My only quibble with the book is that Chesterson talks about many of the saint's legends but stops short of retelling them.
I undertook to read this work shortly after the appointment of our newest Pope, Francis, as the saint with whom he identifies most strongly.
I wanted to study the words of a great writer (Chesterton) about a great historical figure (Francis of Assisi) and I was not disappointed.
However, beyond broad strokes, it is ultimately impossible, either for Chesterton, as he wrote it, or for today's reader, to cut through the hagiography that envelopes a saint of such renown.
This did help me to understand our new Pope better and to see the spiritual dimension of his perspectives.
G.K. Chesterton reveals the man without the myth and mysticism while never denying a word of it.
In the casual yet pacy, witty yet serious style that is Chesterton, this small but precious book tells us more about who Saint Francis was than several larger tomes combined.
By avoiding exuberant apocrypha and concentrating largely upon the man who became a saint, rather than the saint who became a phenomenon, Chesterton makes Saint Francis' life and achievements both interiorly and for the world, both accessible and desirable.
I cannot recommend this book highly enough.
Continuing with my study of the life of St Francis of Assisi, I chose this title for my next read after reading the short section in "The Francis Story" that Chesterton wrote. This book puts his life into the perspective of what the times were like just after the Dark Ages, and how the sight of a begger seeking alms changed his entire life. Chesterton called St. Francis "a poet whose whole life was a poem." The book is an unabridged republication of the 1924 original edition.
Not nearly as much a book about Francis as a book about Chesterton. You can learn a little about Francis here but this is mainly Mr. Chesterton's ode to himself and his opinions. His effort to explain away the Inquisition is particularly bizarre. He does have some great lines and insights though, in particular his description of mysticism.
At least 50% of this book is the author telling us what and how he is going to be writing about St.Francis. The recent is a few anecdotes about St.Francis, mostly used as an introduction to his own petty and ill conceived opinions, with a side order of mud slinging at his own contemporaries opinions. Definitely one to avoid if you are looking to actually find out something about St.Francis!
Dense to read, but an excellent provider of insight into the famous saint's life. Provides religious guidance as well as historical context. I'd Challenge non-Catholics to find anything reprehensible or tainted in Chesterton's treatment of his subject.
More of an essay about St. Francis than a biography. I find Chesterton a bit difficult to read because his writing weaves much philosophy into his storytelling, and I struggle with philosophy. I do like his wit.
Uno sguardo acuto e illuminante sulla vita di un titano dello spirito.
I felt like I knew St. Francis for the first time. Chesterton is great.Included in the "Holy Men and Women" section of Fr. John McCloskey's 100-book Catholic Lifetime Reading Plan.
Here's a dusting of some quotes from the book (which can be read in full here):He who has seen the whole world hanging on a hair of the mercy of God has seen the truth; we might almost say the cold truth.
The mood was indeed originally the good and glorious mood of the great St. Francis, but it was not the whole mind of God or even of man.So far from being a revival of paganism, the Franciscan renascence was a sort of fresh start and first awakening after a forgetfulness of paganism.For that is the full and final spirit in which we should turn to St. Francis; in the spirit of thanks for what he has done.
After being disappointed by Chesterton's book on  Saint Thomas Aquinas , I had pretty low hopes for this. As with Aquinas, this isn't so much a biography as an exploration of the meaning of Francis, but thankful, this is closer to  Orthodoxy  than Aquinas in terms of insight. It's still terrible history and barely adequate as a biography, but theologically and psychologically it really works. (He takes fewer potshots at Protestants in this, too.)Chesterton's Francis feels both human and saintly
After being disappointed by Chesterton's book on 
Saint Thomas Aquinas
As with Aquinas, this isn't so much a biography as an exploration of the meaning of Francis, but thankful, this is closer to 
than Aquinas in terms of insight.
It's still terrible history and barely adequate as a biography, but theologically and psychologically it really works.
(He takes fewer potshots at Protestants in this, too.)Chesterton's Francis feels both human and saintly (not an easy combination), and his focus on Francis as a lover is just brilliant.
Chesterton’s biography of St Thomas Aquinas is one of those truly great books that has the power to change someone’s life and perspective, assuming a reader of the right temperament and receptivity.
This biography of St Francis, however, is a different story.
His take on Francis as a sort of spiritual troubadour and his asceticism as a sort of lover’s pining was good stuff, but I felt, in the end, that he had written the book for someone else, for George Bernard Shaw, say, or H.G. Wells.In fact, Chesterton is rather explicit about this.
Читать «Имя розы», не имея исторического бэкграунда насчёт францисканцев и бенедиктинцев было сложновато. Честертон не помог. Все факты, изложенные в книжке, можно было прочесть в короткой статье на вики, а все остальное время автор напускает туману, натягивает сов на глобусы и выносит оценочные суждения космических масштабов. Как Карен Армстронг, только католик. С другой стороны, параллели, которые Честертон находит между перпендикулярами обычно неожиданны и это не даёт заскучать. «Помпей и Цезарь были очень похожи, особенно Цезарь».
