https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6434432-poet-s-pub
Great fun! A rollicking good romp as they say. Reminiscent of Wodehouse.
The story is really about a pub called “The Downy Pelican,” but was run by Mr. Saturday Keith, a poet of no great achievement, but an excellent publican.
Under Mr. Keith’s management, the pub has become very popular and all of its thirteen rooms are usually all rented out at any given time.
It was that Bacon cribbed his Essays from a notebook of Shakespeare’s which he had picked up in a tavern.’” The book continues in this vein for the first half until we have gotten to know the flock of guests at the pub.
This book was one of those, I loved both the title and the cover, sort of books.
I always wanted to read a book about a literary club or a pub and the title of this book was perfect.
In addition to Hemingway’s’ A Farewell to Arms, Eric Linklater’s Poet’s Pub was one of the first Penguin originals that the British people read and enjoyed.One other thing that intrigued me to read this book, was that it was titled “A literary Cheers” and I love Cheers.So I was all set for a good (maybe) great read and Linklater did not disappoint.
I loved it.Poet's Pub is the amusing story of the Pelican Pub in Downish, England, run by (guess what) a poet named Saturday Keith.
When Saturday's mother became pregnant for the seventh time his father was certain the baby would be another son and would be born on a Saturday.
Saturday's father says:"He'll be born on a Saturday," he said, "and that will make a good deed for every day in the week.
Our story begins with Saturday in bed rather dejected because the reviews for his new book of poetry "February Fill-dyke" are in the papers and are rather scathing.
That aside, I thought it a story brimming over with joie de vivre, in keeping with the only other Linklater novel I've read, the optimistic 'Private Angelo'.
And the dialogue is tremendousIt also strikes me as a novel written by a young man (which Linklater was) as its style has a certain lexical exuberance and a turn of phrase that delights.
There was also 'fritinancy' which the OED lists as 'fritiniency' the last instance of which is 1656.
I sent the OED an updated example of its use.
But I don't think I will ever have occasion to use it, though swallows nesting in my eaves are currently fritinating.Very enjoyable escapist read.
This went from quotably hilarious to Britishness-labouring predictable farce faster than you could say Jerusalem, although most of the characters were very interesting, with only Joan Benbow being a stock character, the clever girl whose romantic resistance can be broken down by trying to kiss her a bit and refuting her arguments/feelings of reluctance, whichever, it'll all end in a wedding.
The others were very eccentric, and I loved that; I especially liked Quentin's mother, and Mr. Holly.
It was also a feat of observation to include a hotel barman who thought he was the first person ever to create a blue cocktail.
When I look at the Penguin shelf at my local bookstore, I'm not expecting to find an author I've never heard of. So when I spotted this one, I gave it a try. After a slow first chapter it blossomed into one of the best comic novels I've read in years. It felt like Kingsley Amis but less cynical, or an odd half-way point between Wodehouse and Anthony Powell. More serious thought than Wodehouse, and a crazier plot than Powell. Now I'm going to have to go find Linklater's other novels. Good on Penguin for an arresting cover design.
An excellent read! One of the few books (if not the only one) that made me laugh out loud. Wonderful British humour that sneaks up on you during regular conversation and makes you pause to smile.
Really enjoyed reading this one.Had a smile on my face when i finished it.It was funny without being written funny if that's the right way to put it.
Entertaining and a 20th century Canterbury Tales of characters in English pubs as English life once was before 1939.
A somewhat irritatingly written book.
Pretty dated, a bit Proto-Wodehouse. Of a little interest was references to Bromley !
He's quit his job at a shipping/exports company, and ends up getting set up as manager of a fancy pub/inn owned by the mother of one of his novelist-friends.
As the manager of the Pelican, Keith gets to see bits of people and their lives; so do we, as readers.
He's good at dialogue and bits of conversation, and while his descriptive passages are sometimes over the top, they mostly manage to be amusing rather than annoying.
(39)Also, this made me grin, because my boyfriend and I often squabble about how, um, contrary I am:'I like independence more than anything else.
This is something of an oddity, and a book I would almost certainly never have encountered if it hadn't been brought back in to print as a Penguin Classic to celebrate its inclusion in the first ever Penguin list published in 1946.
Originally published in 1929, it was the book that made Linklater's name.
Ostensibly, the story of a (not particularly good) poet and Oxford rowing blue, Saturday Keith, who ends up running a country pub and hotel, it is also a multi-stranded narrative featuring the intertwined tales of various of his friends and guests.
This spirited farce is fun from the first page to the last. The cover describes it as a “literary Cheers,” but I think a closer movie/TV comparison might be Bringing Up Baby. There are misunderstandings and a comic chase, and throughout the kind of snappy and hilarious dialogue that you can imagine Katharine Hepburn and Cary Grant delivering. I was not ready for the book to end, and sorry that there wasn’t a sequel.
setting 1920'sVery outdated novel about social life in Britain at the beginning of the twentieth century. Lots of references to famous people of that time. No special writing style. Not read to the end.
Jolly rather madcap tale of the characters connected to a pub in the countryside. One of the very first Penguin books, commissioned specially for the series. Frequent use of the word 'charabanc' through the final chapters was delightful.
Woodehouse's characters without the snappy dialogue.
Funny.
Good story, great characters, and terrifically witty dialogue make this book a true pleasure.
great fun and silly. like one long pbs masterpiece theatre episode.
