https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/866886.A_Map_of_Life
He has given us heaven as the logical conclusion to life on earth.
Sheed takes us to Jesus, he refers to Jesus own statement, “ I am the Way, the Truth, and the Life.” This relates to what Jesus reinstated for us, what we had lost through Adam’s original sin.
He came as truly God and truly Man. He is God’s answer to man’s needs.
To attain heaven we need to live a holy life.
Our earthly life is preparing us for heaven.
We need the Supernatural Life to achieve heaven.
Our life on earth is a preparation.
Lovely, thoughtful book on the relationship between God and man. Concise and tightly written, without a word wasted. It's a book I could read every year and discover something new each time.
Sheed's analogy of Catholic life and doctrine as a kind of map in which our particular experiences and perceptions are redrawn in their proper relation and proportion to one another serves as one of the most helpful catechetical images I've yet discovered.
None of us is in a position to judge the suitability of a map of life by our own experience; for only at the end of life will we be able to make that well-considered judgment, but it is precisely a map worthy of use in my own particular life that I am looking for.
I very much like what he said about the soul food that we need on our journey: "For to call a doctrine a mystery is not to warn men's mind off it, as though it were something on which thought cannot profitably be employed; it is to be thought of rather as an endless gallery, into which we can advance ever deeper, to the great enrichment of our minds, but to the end of which we shall never come.
This infiniteness of truth is the most splendid assurance we can have of eternal happiness, for it means that the mind can progress forever, that yet it will never reach the end of truth.
This inexhaustibility of truth is our guarantee against stagnation of the mind; it guarantees to our minds the possibility of progress through all eternity.
Sheed does a good job of explaining the purpose of man: to know, love, and serve the Lord in this life; and how that translates to eternal life with Him in the next.
Each chapter focuses on a sustantive aspect of right Catholic living: that is living with the intellect and the will united with Christ.
Sheed focuses again and again on the aspect of the intellect and the will and how the proper use of these two faculties will either align us with the will of God and allow us to live in Supernatural Life, or will be used selfishly and destructively in sin resulting in a loss of the Supernatural Life within us.
This book may not have taught me a great deal about Life or being Catholic (as I am not new to the topic), but it is very clearly laid out and to the point, as a map should be.
It also made a few points that surprised me, but with which I could not argue; food for thought.
I almost rated it as 3 stars, because I did not find it the most enjoyable or enlightening book, but I gave it 4 stars because it ultimately did its job so very well, as I now feel like I need to grab hold of the rudder and set my course.
Loved this book. I sure wish I'd discovered it long ago. As always, Frank Sheed is crystal clear and compelling. How come this isn't compulsory reading for every Catholic high-school student?Now I have a copy on KINDLE which I've just 'gulped down' rather rapidly, and I've bought an eighth edition copy (1947) which includes a "Discussion Outline for Study Clubs", as well as a couple of the Ignatius Press 1994 edition to share with my friends and my Carmelite Secular Community in Sydney, Australia.I need to study and absorb this.
While I have no doubt that the theology in this book is excellent, and while there are some real gems in this, I found the writing style insufferable. It was repetitive, it meandered, frankly, it was boring. I don't think there's anything boring about man's journey towards heaven. But this book sure made it seem that way! Where this not part of a reading plan with a book club, I would have put it down after the third chapter.
Sheed provides a classically reasoned little work that provides compelling answers to people who are really looking for them. This little treasure will be quickly dismissed by the Dawkins-ite who regards positivism as the height of human achievement. The language is slightly elevated, but entirely reachable without advanced degrees. I loved it.
Excellent exploration of man's purpose in life. Sheed uses the analogy of a "razor cutting wood" to illustrate a creation reaches its potential only when the purpose for which it is created is fully understood. We too are creatures whose happiness can only be fully realized when we understand the purpose for which we are created.
Short and sweet. Packed with nuggets. It really satisfies. ;)
Superb for anyone looking to understand relationship between God and man.
Even though it was written in 1930 it was full of material relating to the Theology of the Body.
The one I read is actually by R. H. J. Steuart, SJ and is a very short work but very interesting insight on contemplative prayer.
Deep
It states "published with ecclesiastical approval"
Beautiful. If I had to pick one spiritual book after Sacred Scripture and the Catechism to keep in my home and to read this year, this book would be it. So much clarity in the last few chapters! This book would be great for RCIA and for lapsed Catholics coming home as well as those investigating or learning more about their faith.
Enlightening! I HIGHLY recommend!As someone who struggles with my purpose in life and with discerning God's purpose and plan for me, this book was an "awakening" of sorts. It provides an in depth explanation into why God created us, how we became a fallen people-not condemned, and how we can return to "right relationship" with Him.
I love Frank Sheed. He has a clarity about him that comes through his writing. A Map of Life was a wonderful outline of our journey to heaven.
Incredible overview of the Catholic Faith
I loved this book - will re-read again at some point. So many great points about the meaning and purpose of life.
A fantastic concise book discussing the journey towards eternal life. A synopsis of our Catholic faith. An excellent resource for all believers, no matter where they are on the journey.
Great quick read, good intro to Frank Sheed.
He explains many of the Catholic mind sets while leaving hints to much depths and mysteries to be found in Church life.
