https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/173794.Sharpe_s_Company
The Battle of Badajoz in 1812 Spain looks to be just the kind of dirty our hero was made for!Most of the time, Sharpe is at odds with his commanding officers or anyone who ranks above him in anyway really, but this time he has a friend in Colonel Lawford.
This guy is the sort of evil you love to hate and is one of my favorite characters in the whole series.AND AS IF THAT WASN'T ENOUGH, Sharpe must also defend his woman (I say "his woman" because this is just that kind of macho.
Almost 5000 British soldiers died in the rushed and poorly prepared attack against the well defended French position, and Cornwell, through the eyes of Sharpe, puts the reader right in the middle of the carnage.The aftermath of the battle though serves to remind me that the author doesn't need to claim the objectivity of the historian in the way he presents the tale, and it is pretty clear to me which team he plays for.
Cornwell knows very well that the end of the siege saw almost as many civilians killed as soldiers trapped in the breach, and several times in the novel he tries to find excuses for the mob behaviour and to play down what by any definition of the word is a war crime.
Sharpe's Company is the third of Bernard Cornwell's initial series of historical novels about daring British rifleman Richard Sharpe.For new readers to the series, Sharpe was born in the gutters of London -- an orphan who had to fight and scrape his way out of his bleak world and into the ranks of the British army during the Napoleonic campaigns in Portugal and Spain (the Peninsular War).
It was assumed a ranker could never adjust to the ways and manners of his betters.Sharpe is often in the thick of the action throughout the series and the Siege of Badajoz in 1812 provides him with such an opportunity.The novel begins with Sharpe’s frustrating visit to Whitehall to check if his promotion to captain was confirmed.
I'd forgotten how brilliant Cornwell's writing was.
His rush of short sentences with escalating violence combine in Sharpe's case with a berserker insanity and (at this stage in his career) bitter ideation of death.
The sack of Bardoiz was like repeated scenes from Goya.
I had to go and look at his Disasters of War several times while reading this.I'd partly forgotten the writing because in between reading Cornwell and rereading him, I'd seen Sean Bean's Sharpe Series on TV.
It was impossible not to imagine Bean and the brilliant Pete Postlethwaite all the way through this.
Sharpe is a newly minted Captain...or is he? on the Iberian Peninsula. His worst enemy in the whole British Army, Hakeswill is back, once again sabotaging things and making life hell for all the soldiers under his command. Sharpe's personal life is also getting messy.Sharpe comes to believe his only hope to advance is to lead a suicide charge into the breach.Good stuff.
Probably my favorite after Sharpe’s Eagle, Company stands out for several reasons: the first is that we meet Sergeant Obadiah Hakeswill, a loathsome creature and villain who opposed Sharpe earlier in the India prequels.
He’s in fine form in Company, rotting the battalion from within, attempting to murder Sharpe, and persecuting the genial Harper.The other reason it stands out is in the sheer scale of the book.
Cornwell describes bodies stacked high in a ditch, of fighting through the grasping hands of the wounded, the sheer scale of the damage taken in the siege.
One of the best of the early SHARPE books -- Patrick Harper gets flogged, Sharpe loses his company, and Obadiah Hakeswell spends a lot of time talking into his hat.
Sergeant Obadiah Hakeswill joins the South Essex with its new officers: Colonel Brian Windham, an energetic hunter with a dislike of jumped-up officers (and a very moralistic wife); Major Jack Collett; Captain Rymer is slated to replace Sharpe — he's one of us, don't 'cha know although it's too bad he's so indecisive in battle; and, Ensign William Matthews.Teresa Moreno, a.k.a., La Ajuga (The Needle), comes back into Richard's life with a little something extra named Antonia and earns the enmity of Hakeswill.
If you are a fan of the TV series Sharpe with Sean Bean, you will love this book, everything you expect from the billiant author, lots of violence that you expect from this era, and the battles with the French. Very enjoyed, cornwell produces excellent sentences straight to the point, one of the authors that inspire me.
This works most of the times but in some Sharpe stories the small stories are just not interesting enough and often saved by Cornwell's absolute mastery of describing gritty battle scenes with historical accuracy.Whether by design or because it is one of early books, this one doesn't really have a small story.
It's mostly about the actual siege of Badajoz and that's what makes this book a powerful and short-ish Sharpe story.
Teresa Cortes is one of the very few interesting women in Sharpe series, who doesn't come off as a cardboard character or an unnecessary plot prop.
There are some continuity issues which can easily come when books are not published chronologically.
Starts with Sharpe at Ciudad Rodrigo, which the English need to get through to Badajoz.In between, he loses his captaincy of the South Essex regiment to a someone who bought the title, making him bitter about the situation.Added to the mix, his old enemy Sergeant Hakeswill is also attached to the company.
The characters are all well written, Cornwell is in his element here (this is book 13 in the Sharpe series, and they've had time to mature in his imagination).It never comes across as lower vs upper class.

This was definitely one of my favorites. You get some good city fighting here, lots of house to house stuff. The romance angle is building and it just goes to a great climax.This is a fun series and I read all of them back to back in about a month or so. I read some of the books in one day because A) they're not that long, about 200 to 300 pages B) they're darn good and C) they don't have A,B,C lists like this.If you want good historical fiction that is entertaining and has likable characters, this is it.
He loses his captaincy because his gazette is not approved, he loses command of the Light Company, his mentor and battalion commander is badly wounded and replaced by someone who doesn't believe officers risen from the ranks can do anything but administrative work, and an old nemesis returns (Sgt. Hakeswill).
Sharpe tries to be assigned as leader of the "Forlorn Hope," the first attackers into the breach, where he would be rewarded with a captaincy in the unlikely event he survived.
He also attacks Moreno twice.
It is a classic Sharpe story, displaying his reliance on his instincts, flare for tactics, and his characteristic bravery.
A lot less character progression in this one, and a whole lot of dumb luck rather than the clever soldiering Sharpe's known for and that seemed a little too convenient for my liking.
Sharpe's Dumb Luck.
Also, the whole thing with Hakeswill being far too evil of an antagonist to be taken seriously culminating in the "mummy-shako" of all things?
Sharpe's Mummy Shako.
Additionally, the abundance of staccato one word sentences.
Little.
Sharpe's Staccato.
Short of the detailed and properly uncensored accounts of British brutality upon reaching Badajoz, this was something of an infectiously page-turning disappointment.
Sharpe's Disappointment.
Since Company is a lot smaller in scale and with fewer things going on than most Sharpe books, due to most of it just being the lads sitting around waiting for a siege to move on, there's more time for our hero to sit around with his angst, which is not Cornwell's strongest suit.
All is forgiven, however, by the time the last third rolls around and treats the reader to a fucking horrific account of the assault on fortress Badajoz.
It is Cornwell at his very best as he in gory detail paints the picture of thousands of men being torn to shreds or pounded to red mist by cannon fire.
1812 British defeat French bastions at Ciudad Rodrigo and Badajos, which are the 2 gateways in the mountains between Portugal and Spain. This allows Wellington access to attack Spain. Bloody, bloody battle and great losses at Badajos, where storm high, deep, thick walled fortress over water obstacles and steep ravine. Ladders up high walls, across moats, in the face of withering cannon and fires in pits. Quite remarkable. To stem the Napoleonic tide, Sharpe must capture a fortress—where his wife and infant daughter are trapped—while protecting himself from a fellow officer determined to destroy him.
I think so far this is the most interesting book in the series that I have read.
It offers a deeper insight into Sharpe's soul and the inner workings of his mind.
The author succeeds in making his hero more human by bringing his doubts and insecurity into the forefront.
The question of bravery is examined up close.The book drives more attention to the fate of the civilians, especially women and children, during the prolonged war and sieges.
In this sense the book is extremely anti-war, as it describes the inevitability of civilian life loss, rape, murder and pillage, and stresses the impossibility to completely prevent these war crimes.
This installment of the series brings back the return of a very early nemesis, Hakeswill.
I didn't much like him earlier on and with him now being returned certifiably insane, I like him even less.
That said, you can tell we are returning to more recently created works since the level and quality of the writing in general has markedly improved over some other recently read duds (I'm looking at you, Sharpe's Gold).
While I don't think the storming of Badajoz was quite as well written as Cadiz in the last book, in the lead up to those confrontations, this is the better book.
Книга за преломен в живота и кариерата на Шарп момент.Британската армия обсажда Бадахос, ключова крепост за изтласкване на френските войски от Испания. Няма време и трябва да се действа бързо и дори безрасъдно.Временната заповед за капитански чин дадена му от Уелингтън е отхвърлена в Англия и той отново е лейтенант и губи ротата си. Очаква го среща с Тереза, а за капак се появява Обадая Хейксуил, който разговаря с фуражката си денонощно. :)Една от най-добрите части от поредицата до тук!
Another Sharpe PageturnerThis book has it all. A further development of character. Historic detail and a fast paced plot. Sharpe is one of my favourite literary characters and Cornwall uses him well to explicate the ridiculous class system of the army
Cornwell does a nice job of introducing a strong antagonist that is easy to dislike from the beginning. I may have enjoyed this book less than the others in the series so far, but possibly only because I had long breaks when I was reading the book.
A solid piece of entertainment and, to some extent, social commentary on class snobbery.
The thing about this Sharpe (apart from the injustices that rain down on the poor man) is the basic military philosophy that if you throw a few thousand men at a strongly-fortified point then, sooner or later, the number of dead justifies the successful outcome.
It says so much for the stupid courageousness of the common soldier (for remember, though a work of fiction, this series is largely based on fact) that they would somehow throw themselves at an oncoming steamroller in order to stop it.
Third to be written but now the 13th in the internal chronology. The contrast to later-written sequels is jarring. Our hero is more mopey, his nemesis is cartoonishly villainous, and a minor officer's WWJD level of devotion and emulation is unbelievable.
Dark days for Sharpe when his gazette is not approved and he loses his company. Despairing, he tries to be approved for the Forlorn Hope, to get his captaincy. On top of all this, Hakeswell reenters Sharpe's life. It seems too much to overcome. But we're talking about Sharpe . . .
Maybe somewhere in this series Richard Sharpe will finally kill off his nemesis Obadiah Hakeswell. This is not that point. This one features a siege with a fair amount of bumbling on the part of the British, outweighed by a larger amount of bravery. Of course Sharpe is in the midst of the action.
Another Sharpe book in which he overcomes the British Army's bureaucracy and snobbishness, plus a number of other objectionable characters, and wins the day by courage, intelligence and brute force.Just like all the other ones, then. But I couldn't put it down.
I very much like the series - and this was one of the books I liked better than others. Probably because Sharpe is coming across as 'more' human. Showing more depth. Plus of course the crazy bady Obadaiah Hakeswill has a part again in this story.
the continuing antics of Sharpe and Patrick in Spain
