https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1251838.Red_Sails_to_Capri
Accidentally requested this a year earlier than we'll be reading it for the Newbery Club.
Happy accident, though, as I'd hate to have missed it (it may get culled in the meantime, as so many older Newbery Honor books do get weeded by libraries).Funny.
Every person, every place, feels just right, as if the reader could just step into the book and be there with them.
But your ugly steps--if I have made you see a bit of beauty in them, Michele, I am very happy."
This book Wins 5 stars from me for being an incredibly FUN read aloud, for being so appealing to children, for having lovable characters, and having a clever storyline.
Let me say, it is very entertaining to read Italian accents out loud!This book of 10 chapters took us 1 week to read aloud, and it has immediately been promoted to my kids #1 most favorite book EVER.
This book as a lot of humor, and a lot of suspense that had the kids on the edge of their seat.The main character is 14 year old Michele.
I really enjoyed this old Newbery honor selection (pubished in 1952).
Weil took me straight to a lovely stay on Capri in the condition the island existed in during the early 1800s - before being so developed.
And what a fun little adventure, discovering the Blue Grotto!
This is essentially a fictionalized tale of the accepted modern rediscovery of the grotto in 1826, "by the German writer August Kopisch and painter Ernst Fries, his friend and travel companion, who were taken to the cave by Angelo Ferraro, local fisherman, and notary Giuseppe Pagano." Grotta AzzurraThis little book sure will make you want to travel.
Slight and and pleasing, told almost entirely in dialogue.
Ann Weil accomplished something unusual--her characters speak with the rhythm of Italian, but it doesn't come across as broken English.
The mother is especially delightful: "His mother lived with the constant fear that everyone around her was going to starve to death, and her whole life was spent in trying to avoid that great tragedy." I don't think she has more that five lines in the whole book that aren't about food.
These ARE the people I knew on Elba (although they would object strongly to the idea that they were anything like the natives of Capri).
Michele, a boy from Capri, spies the most beautiful red-sailed boat he has ever seen.
The boat arrives in Capri harbor with three strangers- guests for Michele's family's inn.
Mama cooks and cleans for the guests but they are in search of something special: one is searching for beauty, one for adventure and one for the truth through knowledge.
I loved his Mamma who reminded me of my Nonnie, whose duty it was to make sure no one ever ran out of food!
They want adventure without thinking of how it will affect Michele's family.
When they understand, when they know the truth, they can do something about it." —Herre Nordstrom, Red Sails to Capri, P.
I really was surprised by how funny the story is; the island of Capri on which Michele and his parents live is populated with quirky, memorable characters, and that cast grows larger when three enigmatic visitors from abroad—Monsieur Jacques, Lord Derby and Herre Nordstrom—come to stay at the inn owned by Michele's parents.
Red Sails to Capri is a fine story with more than one deeper message carried by the plot, and I would probably give it two and a half stars.
This is a great book! I like the creative writing and the fact that it is based on a real place (Blue Grotto in Capri). This would be a great one to read as a family. (Does mention that the villagers thought witches and monsters lived in the cave-which is true to history). Maybe someday I can visit the Blue Grotto in Capri, Italy!
A fun book to read aloud. It will make you want to google then take a trip to Capri.
Three words: Egg. Boiling. Song. 😂
Sailing on the ship were three men who would come to stay at Michele's parents’ inn.
The men said they were searching—one for beauty, one for adventure, and one for “something difficult to explain.” What they brought with them was a mystery and adventure that would change Michele's life—and all of Capri—forever.I thoroughly enjoyed this interesting story about the rediscovery of the Blue Grotto in Capri.
It is a fictional tale (based on fact), but I believe older elementary students (especially boys) would thoroughly enjoy this tale of young Michele and Pietro's adventure with the guests at Michele's parents' inn to discover the mystery of the cove.
I enjoyed this more than I thought I would -- the eccentric characters and some of the dialog in particular made it a fun story of what appears to be an actual place on the Italian island of Capri. For me the best part wasn't the "mystery," but the character interactions.
What a delightful little book.
I read this aloud to my 9 year old son and my 7 year old daughter.
We laughed and giggled through many parts (especially the parts where the mom sang to the food she was cooking.) It was a little slow to start, but was a beautiful story.
There were so many wonderful parts that lent themselves very nicely to deeper discussions and I enjoyed taking that time with my kids.
However, it is such a wonderful book and is not one to be passed by.
I am sure I will read this book again in the future to my younger son.
We read this aloud as part of Sonlight Core B+C, and although it started out slow (the boys weren't that interested) eventually, they couldn't get enough. This is really fun to read aloud with accents and different voices. The boys are also dying to visit Capri now. I can't complain about that. I was en"light"ened. Oh, and, by the way... The Boy (age 9) wanted me to give this 5 stars, but I only demoted it because of the slow start.
My kids and I loved this book! It is a great read aloud. We were hooked from the first chapter by the story line and quirky characters. My son laughed Several times during the reading, especially when the men had to take over the cooking and cleaning. We were quite delighted to find that the story was based on true events and had fun researching about it even after we had finished the book.
This was a really fun book to read with my boys after actually going to Capri because we could picture so fully every detail of the Blue Grotto and the island in general. I liked how the characters overcame their fear of the unknown and social pressures and found something amazing.
A suprisingly good read! I didn't really know what to expect, and at first glance, I thought this book would be boring. I was wrong! Funny, Captivating, and Full of Adventure is what it really was. My kiddos loved it. :)
This is our current read aloud book with Clara and Max. We finished this book today and really liked it a lot. A very fun book to read out loud for a rapt audience.
Lovely book, read aloud with the kids.
The kids were on the edges of their seats!
My favorite part about the book was Signora Pagano's egg boiling song, and the way she talked about her old kettle.
Michele's decision to run down his friend, Pietro, to invite him to the cove, even if it meant missing the expedition (because he felt he disappointed his friend and understood how he might have made him feel rejected and lonely); and 2.
Signor Pagano explaining to his wife the importance of the expedition, especially for Michele, to whom he can give nothing (inheritance, education, etc.).
But he of course he learns his lesson after he wastes six eggs trying to soft boil for Lord Derby's breakfast.
I pictured the setting like the island of Mamma Mia!, with its rockiness and super blue sea, though Capri is an island of Italy, not the Greek Skopelos.
Three men, previously unknown to the young protagonist, come to the island to stay at an inn.
:-) Also, I like the discussion about actively seeking truth.
It was fun to search for pictures and videos of the island after reading the book.
I recommend waiting until after reading the book to do your Google search, so the book won't be spoiled.This was a delightful surprise, coming from an unassuming thin, slightly-yellowed paperback from the 1950's.
**Spoiler Alert** Just finished reading this to my 6 year old son.
He loved it!
The mystery of the cove was exciting for him, and I think he liked the characters as well- we were definitely giggling at parts :).
The story is well-written and I loved getting a glimpse into life on the island of Capri.
Overall this is a fun read-aloud; a great way to introduce children to other cultures and parts of the world, and to engage their imaginations as they wonder about the mystery of the cove :).
I read this to my 7 year old son for a history lesson. I found it interesting and well written, but he had a hard time following along with the writing style. His interest was increased when we were finished and I was able to show him a video of the Blue Grotto that the characters found. Overall, it was a good quick read for me, but too dry for my son.
A boy and his family and friends, along with some visitors at his father's inn, set out to solve the mystery of a certain cove on the island of Capri, where they live.A neat little story, even neater for being about an actual cove and it's beautiful blue cave.
I just read this with Katie and nicole, we all really liked it. We liked the characters and the adventure.
The first two thirds of the book lack action but provide some entertaining dialogue and capture the rural charm of Capri, Italy. A delightful story that ends with a surprise.
An engaging children's book with a connection to a real life place (hello world atlas). Plus, a little life lesson on the tourist trade for people of all ages.
Well this was delightful! I most appreciated the Signora singing and talking to her food and lecturing her guest about seasoned kettles vs new kettles. Delightful.
The dialogue and exaggerated, exasperated characters got on my nerves.(Michele):“do you think it is wrong of Angelo not always to tell the truth?” (Lord Derby): “I think that almost everyone is looking for something—something special, something that means more to him than anything else in the world…But it is not just in Capri, Michele, that we do our searching.
I think some way or other most people find the things they look for.
That doesn’t see too wrong to me.”“There is a saying, Herre Nordstrom: ‘Where there’s smoke, there’s fire.” When people are afraid of something there must be a reason.” Herre Nordstrom’s eyes flashed.
People are afraid of anything they don’t understand.
If anything, this book made me more anxious to go to Capri than ever!
I highly recommend this book.
Then suddenly a big, important day comes along and it's held high.
And it says to everyone, 'Today you may celebrate!' But perhaps I do not feel like celebrating that day.
Perhaps, instead, I feel like making faces at everyone or crawling under the bed." - p.
And each day the tides open wide the entrance, and reveal again one of the most beautiful places in all the world - the famous Blue Grotto on the Island of Capri." - p.
