https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/31177.Morgan_s_Passing
So I decided to reread Morgan’s Passing because it’s one of the books I least remember, likely because this book isn’t so much a well-plotted story as it is a great character study of protagonist, Morgan Gower.
But Morgan feels awed by the Merediths – by their austerity, their certitude, their mapped and charted lives – a sharp contrast to his own home life which is too overwhelming with (easy-going) wife Bonny, their seven daughters, Morgan’s mother, Louisa, who seems to be suffering from Alzheimer’s, and sister Brindle.
I don’t think I’ll be liking this novel once I’m middle-aged, forgetful and grumpy. Even now I can’t write a decent shopping list.
My least favourite Anne Tyler book so far combining two of my pet peeve story lines: 1) infidelity and 2) young, beautiful, bright woman ending up with a mentally-unstable, crusty old man. Still well-written.
As I just did Morgan.This time through I realize that the Bonny character is autobiographical.
She resembles Ms. Tyler from the physical description, and at one point she admits she intends to write this story (a tip-off I did not remember).Bonny is not the main character.
She tolerates and lives with the main character, Morgan Gower.
Tyler was also married to an M, the (presumably wonky) shrink Dr. Taghi Modarressi, who died in 1997.
(The book was written in 1980 when her M was presumably quite fit.) Morgan doesn't die, but in a way he dies to her.
Anne Tyler is so good. She's not everyone's cup of tea, but I just love reading her novels. They're quirky. Morgan irritated me somewhat at first, but then he grew on me. What I like about Tyler is that she deals with people who seem *almost* real, but they're just a little bit off. And they get into situations that feel *almost* familiar, but not quite something that you would ever experience. Yet the emotions ring true.
Morgan's Passing was a disappointment for me personally, but I bet a lot of Anne Tyler fans would enjoy it.
She is definitely an author that has her own style and it is easy to see in this book, but the story lacks the brilliantly odd characters of The Accidental Tourist or the emotional plot of Dinner At The Homesick Restaurant.
I rarely give up on books though so I pushed through to the end and, since I plan on reading all of Tyler's work, I am glad I did so.
I was disappointed with Morgan's Passing.
I loved the first half of the book, but was disturbed when Morgan had romantic feelings for Emily and ended up leaving his wife for her.
He seemed to love his wife and daughters- although at times he felt overrun by the chaos- but I come from a big family.
I still enjoyed Ann Tyler's writing and the way she describes people- I feel so intimate with her characters when I am reading her books.
But this one was a disappointment to me.
I really like Anne Tyler, so I was too stubborn to give up on this, though I considered it several times. Morgan Gower is possibly the most eccentric character I've encountered. They say some people march to the beat of a different drummer. I think Morgan Gower listened to a drumbeat in an alternate reality. And, truly, I didn't especially care one way or the other.
Having read several Anne Tyler books, I know her writing style and the types of stories and characters she creates, but this book was just weird.
I guess that Morgan should be the main character since his name is in the title, but he didn't seem nearly as developed or real as Emily.
There were some parts I liked, and I will post some quotes for those, but...I think unless you are a die-hard Anne Tyler fan who has read everything and is desperate for more, you can skip "Morgan's Passing"...which reminds me: the very title drove me nuts in the last few confusing and far-fetched pages.
Since reading my first novel by Anne Tyler in 1991, Saint Maybe, and instantly falling in love with her writing, I have read her works chronologically backwards for the most part. So this novel, published in 1980, is the oldest novel of hers I have read to date. The prose is classic Tyler and every page held my interest for that alone. Still, this story does not rank up there with my Tyler faves and would not be one that I would recommend to readers who have yet to discover this incomparable author.
Anne Tyler mi piace molto ma in questo romanzo si è spesa per un'opera che risulta bislacca, inutile, senza vita. A meno che non siate un fan sfegatato dell'autrice consiglio di evitarlo.
So I looked that book up on Goodreads, and lo and behold it was also by Anne Tyler.
They aren't emotionless, but life still happens.
It feels very true to my experience of life.
The only unfortunate thing for me was, once I discovered this book was by the same author as Blue Thread, I kept comparing the two, and I just loved Blue Thread so much, and this wasn't quite as good.
Still, I really did enjoy it, and I'll probably pick up another Anne Tyler book now I know that I clearly like her style.
So, what can I say about this book? It is really good. It was my first book by Anne Tyler, and for me it was like good "culture shock". It is written with lot of sense, humour and love. If you never had ridden Anne Tyler, "Morgan's Passing" will be an ideal variant to start!/Sorry for mistakes/
I love everything Anne Tyler writes. This story is of a hardware store clerk with seven daughters, and a rich imagination. He falls in love with a young married woman. Wonderful story.
Okay I started this book about a month ago and then put it down a few times until I put it down for what I thought was forever.
But then like books sometimes do it stuck in my head, this very strange character and how I could actually relate to him, by wanting to try out different personas and looks depending on who I met or what I was doing at the time.
So in Tyler's typical fashion she grabs you with a truly interesting spin on domestic life and makes you see things differently.
I think the writing is well crafted, in Anne Tyler style, but I just didn't like the character, Morgan, nor were any of the other characters likeable in the least, for me.Morgan is a 45 year old man, so really not that old, but he behaves like a dirty old man.
The story starts off with Morgan being part of a crowd at the Presbyterian Church watching a puppet show when an announcement is made for a "doctor in the house," due to an illness.
I picked up a copy of Morgan's Passing on the mistaken impression that I had read another of Anne Tyler's books and enjoyed it.
The events are book ended by birth and death: the births of Emily's daughter and son; and Morgan's reading of obituaries (first other's and then his own).Morgan Gower is the sort of person who plays along with people's misconceptions.
Emily's life is just the opposite and he envies her.
Through his envy he falls into a weird sort of love with her.While I didn't find myself especially liking any of the characters, I enjoyed reading the book.
One day, Morgan is at a puppet show, when one of the actors asks for a doctor.
The young puppeteer, Leon, and his wife, Emily, are expecting a baby, and it is coming early.
Morgan attempts to drive them to the hospital, but winds up delivering their baby on the side of the road.
From that day on, Morgan becomes obsessed with the young couple.
Morgan starts following them in an attempt to live vicariously through their life.
As Morgan's seven daughters grow up, marry, and have children, he becomes stifled in his life and starts spending more and more time with Leon and Emily.
He actually has some weekly ritual he performs in these different personas and this is something his wife accepts as part of Morgan.
This is a love story, but of the most unusual kind.I always enjoy Anne Tyler's books.
They are humorous and her characters are eccentric.
Her novels though are gentle as she has her characters navigate in a puzzling world.
Last year, I traded some books with Carl's mom and out of a whim gave her Morgan's Passing.
I was surprised to find out how much she enjoyed the book.
I think she had a little crush on Morgan.
She makes flawed characters come to life and makes the reader think about them in a new way.
I enjoyed this book but for the first time with a Tyler book, I really didn’t like the main characters.
I thought the hero in this book was creepy and yet similar to people you pass on the street each day.
I did however have to look at his thinking from a different angle.
It makes you wonder about the common and sometimes irritating people that you meet daily.
The bizarre approach to life that the characters have seems disturbingly real and quite commonplace.
I read Anne Tyler ' s books for the quirky characters and this one did not disappoint in that aspect.
Somehow I had missed this one years ago when I started reading her novels.
Morgan is a very eccentric middle aged man with a closet full of costumes he uses as everyday wear.
I enjoyed the book and characters yet only rated it a three because something about the book just seemed off...maybe a little too quirky to actually figure out...the book did seem to drag a little after a while but I did finish.
Anne Tyler has done it again.
Drawn me in to characters that are so odd that I don't really want to know them, and yet, so endearingly quirky that I can't help but be drawn to them.
And then there's that recognition of my own traits in the characters.
And that's why I read every title of Anne Tyler's I get my hands on.
This gem was waiting for me at the Moose Lake, MN public library."He did not believe that there was anything in the world that would make her really happy.
Morgan is a lovable incompetent.
The kind whom we wonder how they get along in the world.
He has an immense imagination, a poor work ethic, and seven children!
One day he is watching a puppet show.
Suddenly the curtain closes and then a young man comes out and asks if there is a doctor in the house.
Morgan stands up.
This is story of how he met Leon and Emily.
He then becomes a stalker, wants to be involved in their lives.
If this happens or not is the gist of the rest of the story.
Highly entertaining.
I love Anne Tyler -- that's a given. But this book, which I originally missed and just read now, rounded out a summer of no favorites. Morgan, it would seem, is supposed to be wonderfully eccentric, but I found him creepy, a stalker, and a ne'er-do-well. Leon was off-putting too, as were the puppets. I read the whole thing, but it was with great relief that the curtain finally fell on the entire cast of uninteresting characters.
Somewhat disappointing, because I absolutely love most of Anne Tyler's novels. I really disliked the main character and my rating is therefore rather subjective, because I do think it was a well crafted book.
I didn't actually finish this book - never happened before with other books by this author. I'm afraid I found it dull, tedious and with characters I didn't care about. I always used to plough on to the end with books but life's too short and there are so many more books to read.
Loved the characters, even Morgan with all his quirkiness, good story.
Anne Tyler’s books house the characters with different oddities such as Duncan in Searching for Caleb, Ben Joe Hawkes in If Morning Ever comes and Macon from The Accidental Tourist, Pearl from Dinner at the Homesick Restaurant, etc.
You want to help them to find their way, but Anne does it beautifully anyway.They all come alive early in the book, their eccentricity makes you laugh or frustrated.
He has his obsessions like writing letters to whoever he knows but when a young family becomes his obsession, his mid-life crises hits him even harder as he falls in love with Emily, who unhappy in her marriage gets involved with him.
The only real problem with the book, as with most of hers that I’ve read, is that it meanders along in such an unassuming way that I just know that in a year, or two, I will see a copy of this in a second hand shop or on a library shelf, and I won’t have a clue whether or not I’ve read it before.
There certainly is a plot and we certainly do get from A to B, and then drop right out of the lives of the characters, but essentially it’s a character study, time passes, things happen, but uneventfully....
I guess it’s about people stuck in their ways, and then suddenly breaking out of them.
This is an old Anne Tyler book that I either missed in 1980 or else read it an forgot.
I generally like Anne Tyler's books though they all have the same theme of of weak man overruled by stronger but neurotic woman.
Morgan is rather eccentric and seems to be somewhat of a chameleon, in this case he takes on the role of a doctor when a young woman goes into labor, successfully delivering her child.
Maybe I missed something but the book never really seemed to have a plot, it just tottered along, one thing happening after another but no real strings to hold it all together.
