https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/308581.The_Carpetbaggers
I see what he does – he flat-out steals well-known stuff which everyone has heard of and stirs it shamelessly into his story – so after the hero gets involved in the movie business circa 1929 when talkies were just coming in, he’s already described a movie which sounds like High Noon (1952), then problems with a leading lady’s horrible voice like in Singin’ in the Rain (1952).
CAPTURING HIS MANHOOD : THE SEX STUFFAllegedly many original readers were wowed by the sex scenes but 55 years later they’re just funny.He stood there watching the blurred, sensual look come back into her face.
I should mention that all the women in this novel are good-looking and have amazing breasts.
My grandpa gave me this book before he died. He thought I was finally old enough for the "smut" in the book. I was 29!
I don't know if that's really true but certainly it has been a widely read story for more than 40 years so obviously a lot of people have read it.
The main character is a Howard Hughes type tycoon named Jonas Cord with all sorts of business interests but most especially aircraft development and Hollywood pictures.
It is interesting to note that Harold Robbins knew Howard Hughes fairly well but despite so many similarities to Hughes, Robbins claims the model for the Jonas Cord character was actually Bill Lear (developer of the Lear jet and the 8-track tape player).
Immensely entertaining pot-boiler involving the exploits of Jonas Cord, a thinly disguised version of Howard Hughes.
The novel is a roman-a-clef of old Hollywood featuring movie star Rina Marlow, and cowboy turned movie star, Nevada Smith whose lives are intertwined with Jonas Cord's career.
The strength in The Carpetbaggers is that it's really 3 novels in one: a western, a soap opera and a hard-boiled Hollywood expose.
The plots never lag and Robbins leaves the highfalutin literary tricks to the artistes.
This isn't Henry James, clearly.
Characters are one dimensional and driven by primal urges.
Yes, it's trash, but it's entertaining trash.
We used to rent a renovated barn-like house on Douglas Lake in Michigan for a summer vacation and there were a ton of paperback books downstairs in the "livingroom." I had rarely seen paperback books, as my parents had hardback books in their library as did my grandparents.
They had covers with men and women and some looked rather forbidden to a 10 year old.
I read many cheap novels that summer and learned about sex, deceit, lying, and lowdown men and women.
Oh to be 15 again and reading the Carpetbaggers for the first time
I read this book because I loved 'The Adventurers' This book was very risque for a young teenage boy, I kept it hidden from my mother as it felt embarrassing that I was reading such a sexually graphic novel, honestly in the 60's this was as close to pornography as you could get in a work of fiction, these days I suppose its tame in that respect.
In any case I enjoyed the book, the story line was good, I read it avidly, but I have to admit my motives for reading it were not literary, well I was 14/15!!
Needless to say it is another very good book from a very prolifically good author, not only that he and I shared the same birthday.
The last novel published while Robbins was still alive (I think since he died in 1997)was Tycoon (1997)and Predators was published postmortem in 1998 with The Secret (2000) the sequel to The Predators.
Jonas Cord inherited his father's industries like Hughes and the sex and romance that comes into play and begins Robbins' signature trademark was he inherited his father's young wife, Rina Marlowe that labeled Robbins as Mister Sex or the inventor of sex in American novels started a movement that had previously been taboo.
A 5-book paperback bundle sells for $75 at Amazon which includes The Raiders, The Stallion, The Predators, The Secret and Tycoon and doesn't even include the Carpetbagger.
Before Martin Scorsese's movie, this guy had already written a novel about the Aviator.
It's ostensibly a roman a clef about Howard Hughes (the Cord character) and his adventures in Hollywood and as an aircraft pioneer from the 1930s through the 1950s (Robbins maintained that Bill Lear was also a model for his character, Jonas Cord) - along the way we become involved with characters who strongly resemble Hopalong Cassidy, Jean Harlow, and a hooker-turned-actress who eventually becomes a nun (ironically, THE CARPETBAGGERS was published several years before Dolores Hart, who did NOT start as a hooker, did exactly that).For pure slam-band entertainment, THE CARPETBAGGERS can't be beat, and as one of the three most famous "dirty books" published in the 1950s/1960s, it probably holds up the best (the other two being PEYTON PLACE and VALLEY OF THE DOLLS) - this 2007 re-read was my third reading of the Robbins novel.
So sometimes you pick up a book thinking, "Wow, this is going to be really awesome and trashy!" and then you're just disappointed. Well, this one did not disappoint. Unfortunately, Robbins brings out the big guns too early (the "Nevada Smith" fugitive-cowboy-turned-hollywood-movie-star story is too good to be true) and then he just keeps recycling the same characters over and over for the next 500 pages.
A good book which can get a rating of 4....this story revolves around the Hollywood in the period of early 20th century...the period when the motion pictures were introduced...the characters portray the supreme urge of getting power success love and lust..
The movie Carpetbaggers starring the hot guy from Breakfast at Tiffany's was very lifetime original...and this book reads like a Sweet Valley High Novel circa 1930's.
The book revolves around Jonas' wreck of a life, Rina (his dream girl)who is basically heartless and they both take the world by storm.
The plot is very dramatic to say the least but dramatic in a dated way where they sort of hint around all the scandal.
I gave it three star because this book is about 648 pages and I read it in one night so it kept my interest.
Rape and incest is always part of his novels. Which is real life for some so I read them with that understanding. This book also has homosexual relations mentioned. Also true to life. The problem for me with this novel is the Howard Hughes type of character. I did not get drawn in by him or the other 4 or so sort of main characters in the background. It was a book about real issues with unreal characters
Up until I started high school, I didn't exactly have a love affair with literature, then my stepmother borrowed a copy of this novel for me. It's complete trash, just filthy and easily one of the most enjoyable novels I've ever read!
Move over, JR Ewing, because Jonas Cord Jr. makes you look like a saint.
He was a master story weaver.One paragraph that stood out to me this time was: "Then, bit by bit, the understanding came to her, as it always must to the survivors, that only a part of the dreams had been buried with him...She heard the birds begin to sing again.
She looked up at the blue sky, and the white sun above her head, and knew that once again she was a living, breathing human being with the full, rich blood of life in her body."I watched my husband die of a heart attack 20 years ago.
Part of me was buried during that time.
I was alive and life is for the living.
Inconsistent characters, tone, pacing, graphicness, length..
It follows the interweaving lives of three main people, a cowboy, a woman based at least partially on jane russel and a howard hughes knockoff.
Its like it was meant to be two books but the author couldn't quite find enough material for the second so instead you have here a novel and a half.
Other oddities are that the book can be quite graphic when it comes to sex and violence, sometimes..
then other times it turns and runs from the sex or violence, again inconsistent.
It was kind of fun to read one again now that I am such a literary fiction reader.Jonas Cord, a motherless kid with a Native American cowboy named Nevada Smith as his male nanny, was raised in the Nevada desert on his father's ranch.
Mr Cord Sr was a fabulously wealthy, hard bitten tycoon whose tough love left Jonas feeling unloved.
I suppose most men wanted to be tycoons and most women wanted to be movie stars in 1961; heck, many still do!How satisfying to read that the rich and famous also have hard times.
My dad has been raving about this book for years that i had to read.
i was reading a different book at the time, but once i started it was a really good book.
I have to say this, i watched the movie while i was in the middle of reading rina's story, and i have to say, it may be an ok movie, but it has nothing on the book.
in the movie, they change a lot from the book.
and in later reading, in the book of Jennie you realize that the two are a like in some ways.
I bought this book in the old Penn Station in June/July of 1962 while waiting to catch the Broadway Limited to Chicago with my mother and younger sister. From Chicago we continued on the California Zephyr to Oakland. I read this sexy book at age 15 while on the trip while all the scenery went by. And kept it hidden from my mother of course. Fictionalized life of Howard Hughes as everyone knows by now.
I can't remember why I picked up this book. It was written in the late 30's and it was great. It was really a scandal in it's day. In todays terms it would be light reading but in the 30's WOW what a shock it would have been. The book is broke into characters and while I was reading it I was sad to leave one section for the next but all the characters were good. This another book I read in 5 days loved it.
Jonas Cord goes through a transformation that takes a lifetime to achieve. I was happy for him at the end, even with all the tragedy that surrounded his plush lifestyle.It took a while for me to read through this, but Harold Robbins different points of view had me hooked and by the middle of the book, I finally caught on to his unique structure to this book. It's long, but overall, I felt satisfied by the end of it.
I was too young back then when I first read this book.It is not recommended for bookworms of a very young age. The promiscuity of the society are expounded in intricate details. It can be an eye-opener of what's behind the high-end class system and what they are capable of doing. I'll give this a satisfactory rating.
The Carpetbaggers is a realistic, tough, ruthless, outspoken novel of men and women who always take more than they give. It is filled with sin and success as the sharply drawn characters search endlessly for love and power, to dominate others even at the expense of self-destruction. Interesting at the time, but now very dated.
only good, not that good, but good, I would recommend this book to the people who are born with a golden spoon in their mouth. I do not belong to that particular part of the society, so this book was like watching royal families day in and day out.
I absolutely LOVED this book! It is definitely a man's read, especially the Old West depictions in the beginning. I liked the touches of true history mixed in with fiction, and the glamour and despair of Hollywood in the 30s and 40s!
Brilliant Harold Robbins novel.A another great read from the Robbins catalog. I really enjoyed this book, I recommend this to anyone who likes great books. I normally read Horror & Thriller/actionGenres. But when I fancy something different I always go for a Harold Robbins book.
I know I am supposed to have probably loved this book, but I just couldn't. It took me ages to finish because I kept finding something better to do. I did however find Nevada to be a great character, he was pretty much the only reason I kept reading.
This is an old book - but an enjoyable one. It is pre-world war II thru WWII, telling about the building of airplanes, the movie business. The characters are vivid and convincing. while the content is raw- it is a story of redemption. I will remember this one.
