https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/790132.The_Other_Side_of_the_Sun
The final dramatic scene, though, is surprising and unsettling, and L'Engle is most definitely an excellent storyteller.
I wouldn't place The Other Side of the Sun terribly high in the L'Engle canon, but there's still an enjoyable story here.
This is one of my favorite L'Engle books. It has a mystic quality to it that is in the oddest of settings, the south after the civil war. Hard to find, but so worth the time.
The narrator for most of it is a young English woman, newly married and having to live with her husband's family in the South right after the civil war.
Oh, and everyone's crazy and there's strange pasts that aren't seen and...Her perspective won me over as well as sucked me into the shaky situation the South was in at that time.
I feel like I better understand the era.One reason I love L'Engle's writings is that she always brings up both God and science, well studied on both accounts, into her books.
She is immediately plunged into a confusing network of extended family and is soon confronted by the two worlds of the south: the white-run city and country life and "the scrub," where former slaves live in extreme poverty and where some still worship the old gods.
There was a lynching in the past, there are family members who want to use Stella, there are other family members who try to protect Stella, and it's very hard for her--and the reader--to sort out.Though I sighed when I realized that the religious practices of the scrub equated evil-doing, L'Engle still didn't disappoint me, because she includes a wise-woman, Honoria, a former slave adept in healing skills and acknowledged as spiritually powerful.
I love the aunts in this book, and the literary games they play.
I wonder how much of my literary character, if you will, was formed by early and frequent exposure to L'Engle.
This is a strange book, dark and full of allusions, mysterious and circular and disorienting.
Like the protagonist, Stella, one is plunged into a complex and layered Southern family with a generous helping of racial tension and conflict.
On balance though, this, like all the other L'Engle books, is about the redemptive power of love.
I have to admit that about half-way through, I started skimming. There were so many characters, many with the same names, that I stopped caring who they were.
I loved ML'E as a kid (Wrinkle in Time et al) but this one just did not do it for me. Way too histrionic and cheesy and just too much. A disappointment.
Stella, a young British bride, arrives in South Carolina in 1910 to live with her husband's family while he (Terry) is on a secret assignment.
The Renier family has lived in a big rambling house at the beach for many generations.
There is a long history of family secrets and animosities, and Stella does not understand the threat of danger that seems to be lurking.
The family also has some ties to a large black family, the Zenumins, who live away from the beach in a scrubby, marshy area.
Naivete seems to be both an element in the story and part of the storytelling.
At points, I feel like L'Engle sometimes treats the issue of racism with too much naivete (particularly in the idea of Nyssa--a plantation run by a white family, still worked largely by its freed slaves), but she describes lynchings with unflinching realism and a decision related to lynching is made with full understanding.
I do feel like many characters are stereotypes.
Still, I like the book and I like that L'Engle was wrestling with the issues that make up the story.
this is my favorite book.
i love it when i read it as a young teenager and i still love it now.
it is about a young woman who marries a man but he must leave her with his family in the deep american south while he goes off to his secretive job.
he leaves her with his old aunties and the housekeeper, honoria, honoria's husband, clive and another aunt and uncle.
and there are darker characters in the shadows vying for the naive woman's attentions.
i loved it and have read it at least 4 times.
This book was a bit of a conundrum to me. Having grown up on L'Engle's books I suppose I expected something different. I still got some good writing and intricate descriptions of a post-civil war south. But the titular metaphor was belaboured, the family tree tricky to follow and I found the 'anti-racism' message got caught up in an accidentally ironic amount of primitivist racism. Meh.
THis book is unlike most of her other works. It is dark and unsettling and amazing all at the same time. I really enjoyed getting to know the characters. It was a time and place that I can't really understand- the South after tha Civil War.I wishe dthat I could have changed the ending. But it would have been wrong to have it end any other way.

this is my second attempt at reading this- i tried many years ago and gave up.
after the civil war, people are riding horses and such.-stella reminded me a lot of l'engle's character vicky austin.
i like vicky austin.-some of the things l'engle says about race in the US rang very true for me today in 2018i didn't like:-the portrayal of the zenumins.
maybe the little ditty was supposed to help me remember, speaking of twee.-the fact that stella stays at illyria with all these bananas strangers- in-laws or no- instead of getting on the first boat back to england once all this weird shit starts happening.
Fascinating story, wonderful imagery, interesting take on difficult themes. Having read mostly newer books this year, I was particularly interested in this past perspective on life, family roles, Civil War themes, and witchcraft. Glad I found this on Hoopla; decided to read because I'm such a fan of Wrinkle In Time.
A classic Southern Gothic story brimming with racial tension and family intrigue. It has the same good vs evil theme that worked so well in A Wrinkle in Time but here it falls flat. This may have been bold and innovative back in the ‘70s when it was written but, to me, reading it today, it comes across as a tired melodrama that reinforces the bigotry it tries to condemn. I expected better. 2 1/2 stars
That said, Stella falls into my least favorite pitfall for L'Engle characters--she has few faults, and even less personality.
I miss Meg (at least in a Wrinkle in Time, before she fell into the same problems) who had a bad temper and a chip on her shoulder, and who had faults that made her human.The other characters and their names and stories are too convoluted for such a short book.
If this one was the same length as Gone With The Wind the story might have been able to be told more elegantly, but since it's not, the generations of characters sharing the same names just felt confusing and less real.The plot was shaky, but, to be honest, most of L'Engle's books that I've read didn't have very intricate plots.
I enjoyed this book although it was slow to get going probably due to there being so many (mysterious) characters to introduce.
The plot is appropriately murky and a little fantastic so that keeps it entertaining.
Although the ending is exciting, I was left with questions about characters I cared about.
And what happened to Finbarr and Minou and what was their significance in the plot anyhow?
They were my favorite characters and they seemed to be doing a good job with little fuss.
Also, in the end, I found Stella to be more annoying than not and that's not really a good outcome for a plucky beautiful heroine.
I love the complexity of the characters and their interactions.
Stella, a young British woman, has just married into a southern American family in the years after the Civil War. Her new husband is sent off on a diplomatic mission to parts of the world unknown to Stella, and she must brave the strange family dynamic alone.
On top of the newness of her husband's family, there is a plot abroad, one that could change everything for the Reniers -- even for the entire South.
Stella must uncover the plot and send word to her husband, Terry, and his superiors in Washington before it's too late to save all she is growing to love.Madeleine L'Engle excels in complex character interactions.
This was quite different from the other L'Engle books I have read and it doesn't seem to have received a great deal of attention over the years, perhaps because it does not fit in with much of her output.
It is a story of the American South in the period following the Civil War and is not a children's book at all.
Although she was born in New York and often set her stories in New England, L'Engle is not writing without first-hand knowledge of the area.
She attended boarding school in Charleston, South Carolina in the 1930s.
Huh. You know I love Madeleine L'Engle, but did anyone else feel like this book is sorta racist?
I mean, it does take place in the post-civil war south, so I guess that's a given.
But the people who aren't supposed to be racist are the ones that really come off that way.
I also have issues with the end of the book--why is Terry so unsympathetic?
Is he supposed to be that way?
And what on earth was he doing in Kairogi anyway?
There is a weight to various items in the book that is never illuminated.
Mysteries abound within this story about the USofA deep South after the Civil War. As expected for the story setting combined with Madeleine L'Engle's style, good/evil, religion, and racism dominate the tale.
And what a wonderful surprise it turned out to be!I think it was written about fifty years ago, and the story takes place in the American south, between the civil war and WWI.
Stella is "sent" to his relatives in the south - I'm not sure if the actual location was ever mentioned.
Belle and her mother are involved in black magic.
A miracle make him know the power belong to God."The ending of the book was a surprise - but thinking it over, I realize that it probably was the best way it could end.
She chronicles the story of a house and the family that lived in it.
Time period is in the south a good number of years after the Civil War, in an era where race still mattered.
Grandfather and son married women from Europe who didn't share the knowledge of the southern culture and broke all the rules, revealing humanity.It's a tragic story, but it shows the resiliency of people who know who they are.
In some ways it was a history lesson-I don't know if the events were true or not, but they could have been.
It's also a story about good vs.
Since I read this book over four years ago, I have been haunted by its mystical reality.
A rare book that I want to simultaneously devour and savor as I read.The impact one person can have in a community is underscored when Stella arrives in Illyria (I love all the names in this novel!) to find tensions existing in a delicate balance, which she unwittingly upset.
Clashes of cultures, powers, faiths, plans, and personalities rivet the reader to the characters and dramatic events.While the theology is heavy in mysticism, many spiritual realities play out over the course of the story.
Painful mercy and love truly triumph over all!
Well-intentioned and readable, but the plot was not entirely believable.
The main character, Stella, who is British, is sent to live with her husband Terry's relatives in the Deep South, while he goes away on secret government business.
Worth reading, but not entirely successful, for me.
When I finished this book there was a back page giving the bio for this author and one of the things it said was that it was on a list of 30 of the most banned books in the United States, primarily because of the heavy underlying theme of black magic versus God that runs through it.
Writtten about the deep south sometime after the civil war I found it to be a really interesting read, espcially when it comes to the wisdom of the older generation versus the younger, for that alone it is well worth the ready.
The witchcraft stuff ...
Madeleine L'Engle is one of my very favourite writers....like Frederick Buechner, she has such a beautiful way with words.
It feels like poetry in prose.
This story is written sometime after the civil war in America, and highlights the plight of the newly freed slaves, who now were indeed free, but also had nothing and were left to fend for themselves as best they might.
She does a good job of working out the complexities of the situation, the different sides both blacks and whites found themselves on with many varied ways of thinking about the present difficulties.
It was difficult not to compare this to the “Wrinkle in Time” books as there were a lot of parallels. As a southerner I truly enjoyed the accuracy of the setting and with all of L’Engle books that I have read i was fascinated with the struggle between good and evil. Some places In the south, these battles of prejudice still exist.I didn’t feel that the characters were stereotypical but they were symbolic of human strengths and weaknesses. I enjoyed getting acquainted with the characters but sometimes it was confusing due to the same name being shared throughout the generations.
Powerful, but Offering No SolutionsIf you've read L'Engle other works, this novel will feel familiar. A young woman finds herself in a strange land, among strange people, trying to sort friend from foe. There is much said about faith, God, and the horrors of racism. There are lovely lyrical passages and there are horrific encounters with the evil men create. The book closes without offering any kind of hope for the resolution of racism. Ultimately, this left me feel more heart-sick than all the violence and death.
