https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/266832.Centerburg_Tales
Annnd Homer is at it again! Trouble mayhem and chaos just seems to circle him like satellites I know the feeling...but it's much more fun to read about Homers experiences than to,live through mine.he seems to skin across the surface of trouble unscathed, a quality I greatly admire. Written very tongue in cheek, this is a wonderfully quaint look back in time that anyone of a"certain age " will enjoy!
Ah, little Centerburg, the quintessential 1940's Midwestern town.
A friendly sheriff, angle (diagonal) parking, a shirt-tail relative who tells tall tales, mass hysteria -- wait a minute, what's with this burg?
Welcome to part two of the "Homer Price" tales by Robert ("MAKE WAY FOR DUCKLINGS") McCloskey, who put his little hero, Homer Price, though a series of them in the eponymous first book and in this one, brought Homer back for more.
CENTERBURG TALES continues to charm children and bemuse parents over seventy years later.
As far as I know this little classic has never been out of print, nor should it ever.
For a small town Centerburg has an awful lot happening there.
The best places in town for all the local gossip seems to be the barbershop where you can get a shave or haircut, read the magazines and catch up on everything happening in town.
The local restaurantis another hotspot where fresh tasty donuts are one of the main specialitys , and this is where the best chats seem to happen.
This book was very enjoyable and the characters are very loveable and memorable.
These are perfect books for kids and the young at heart!!!
Centerburg Tales: More Adventures of Homer Price (Homer Price #2) by Robert McCloskey (Perfection Learning 1977) (Fiction - Children's).
In the town of Centerburg where our boy Homer Price lives, everyone knows everything about each other.
It's not that folks are nosy; it's just a small town.
Interesting things happen there though, and Homer always seems to be at the center of the excitement.
This is a series of stories; my favorite since childhood has been the mysterious phonograph record in the diner that makes everyone who hears it speak in rhyme.
This book definitely is a children's classic.
Think Opie and Mayberry and you'll have just the right idea of this book!Each chapter is easily it's own "episode" so instead of turning on the television tonight, read a chapter of this with the family!
"Aw nuts." "Golly" is said four times.
"Holy smoke" is said twice.
"Shucks" is said three times.
"Durned" is said five times.
These reports give a complete break-down of everything in the book, so you'll know just how clean it is or isn't.
I also have Clean Guides (downloadable PDFs) which enable you to clean up your book before reading it!
It's a sequel to Homer Price, but whereas that book (as far as I remember) was whimsical but ultimately not fantastical, this one crosses the line into a couple of strange fairy-tale like stories.
They're amusing (though with some troublingly racist--by 21st century standards, anyway--attitudes towards Native Americans) but clearly tall tales told by Grampa; we're not expected to believe them.
The next and final one is eve more overtly fantastical: a mysterious stanger puts an unnamed record in the juke box.
The cure is implausible, and there's no explanation for why the guy would have put the record in the juke box anyway.
Terrific book, all the better for not feeling like it's been strained through a suite of lawyers, editors and "concerned parents".
(And this setup captures very much the atmosphere my father painted when talking about HIS grandparents out on the farm in Nebraska, where the truth was a poor second to a good tall tale.) Anyway, Homer is level-headed and considerate without always having to be the center of attention, and that's a good thing.The 9-year-old (girl) loved these stories and was not happy to find out that this (and Homer Price) are the only two books in the series.
Homer lives outside of Centerburg, a small town in Ohio near the Indiana border, where he and his friend Freddy go to school, he helps out in Uncle Ulysses’s lunchroom, and he listens to Grandpa Hercules’s stories.
Centerburg Tales contains the further adventures of Homer, his friends, and his family.
These stories have the aura of tall tales, and I suspect that everyone who has read the book has his favorite one.
It might be Grandpa Herc’s celebrated jump out of his clothes all the way into Indiana, Dulcy Dooner’s giant ragweeds which threaten the entire community, the slick salesman who dupes the citizens with his “Ever So Much More So” magic elixir, or the mysterious jukebox record which sets the whole town singing and dancing.
The story about the earworm, with its shout-out to Mark Twain, has always been my favorite.
The story of his great "jump" is wonderful.
Several reviewers on this site call this book true Americana, and I agree.
It's rich in allusions to our literature and folklore.
About other reviewers, I going to refrain from saying anything.
I just wonder that so many people of whatever age are so ignorant of that very literature and folklore.
(Okay, I guess I did say something about those other reviewers.
Deal with it.) In any event, I don't blame them.
I blame schools.
Homer and the residents of Centerburg, OH are back with more crazy stories, tall tales and wacky inventions!
Kind of a collection of short stories (feels a lot like episodes of The Andy Griffith Show); Grandpa Herc's stories and the almost trouble they get him into, hayfever sufferers' worst nightmare nearly coming to pass, the curse of the song that get's stuck in your head and more.
No sensuality, but some partial nudity in one of the illustrations (and complete nudity in the story as it's talking about a guy trying to take a bath).
Only possibly violent things I remember: some people might have gotten smacked on the head, no lasting damage.

I think it was pretty good but it might need to work on making the tales a little more action you now more fun something that makes me give it a 5 star.I liked many parts of the book the part I liked most was when the weed plant was grown and they try to get reed of it b/c is was making everyone sick and it was killing people. I would recommend this book for the people that like suspense and action.
I read this to Caleb and found it enjoyable for myself, but probably enjoyed it mostly because he loved it so much and laughed his way through it. It has a classic 'old town' feel that I enjoy. As soon as we finished it, Caleb immediately wanted to start it again. There are some politically incorrect attitudes and terms in this book, but they aren't strong and I didn't find them offensive as they are time-period accurate and not vulgar, in my opinion.
I was looking at my bookshelf and realizing that it had been twenty years since I read this book. So I picked it up and *poof* instant nostalgia for a time that never existed and a place that is nowhere.These are not great literature, they are not classic teaching parables, they are just some of the best throw-away summer reading for children that has ever been put to paper. Great fun.
I loved the first book about Homer Price and his home town as a kid. When I found out that there was a second book recently I had to read it. Unfortunatley I was dissapointed. The stories feel a bit more scattered are a bit more outlandish. They all fit into the tall-tale category, but they didn't hold the same appeal that the first book did.
Listened to the audiobook with Emma and Will. They loved it just as much as the original, but I found this one a bit over the top to really enjoy. Instead of each chapter being its own stand alone story, the story was continuous and more like a series of tall tales.
This is the essence of homespun humor. Grandpa Hercules' stories are hilarious, as is the way they confound his listeners' sense of credulity. I don't wanna overthink it but this book is as good as any exploration of the way that stories can be true whether or not they really happened that way.
I don't think we've ever successfully made it through this book. It's such a snorefest that Homer himself is sleeping on the cover. Such a disappointment after the wonder and magical storytelling in "Homer Price."
Rounded up from 4.5 stars. Not quite as charming as the original Homer Price, but still completely adorable. Favorite quote:"Tomesimes," said the sheriff sadly, "I wix my mords all up, but sis thuff ixxes 'em mup so I don't even snow what I'm krying to snay!"
I first read this book years ago as a child and enjoyed it then. On rereading it, I still find it to be amusing. Yes, it is a bit dated, but I think that adds to its charm. Homer Price's world of small town America is gone now, but it is fun to recall.
I actually liked this one better than the original Homer Price. Nobody does silly quite as well as Robert McCloskey. Your kids will love these books and if you come from a small town, you will appreciate the citizens of Centerburg.
I found this book in a library sale was was thrilled- I hadn't read the original book in years, but these charming tales are almost as good as the original. Great to visit familiar characters, but try to read "Homer Price" first.
A pretty ok book.
This is a continuation of his Homer Price which I loved as a child. Love the Tall Tales the grandfather tells.
Close examinations on the further doings in Centerburg, the stomping ground of Homer Price. Not to be missed on any account. Enchanting.
I was a bit disappointed because there was only one story that was different from the ones in the other books. But the one story was good!
I think I like the first book, Homer Price, a bit better--but this was also fun to read (most especially as I read it with my very own Homer Price :).
Even funnier than Homer Price! Grandpa Hercules was a hoot; loved his “stories”!And then of course for the last story, now I’ve got those jingles stuck in my head!
I have been reading this in the morning to Jacob before he boards the bus! It is great! It is laugh out loud funny at times.
Ah.....I love these stories. :) The only reason I didn't give this book five stars was the last story, which I always found a bit sinister as a younger kid.
