https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/38030.Savannah_Blues
One of the things that triggers my geek button is when an author writes about legal issues but doesn't bother to do any real research first.
You know who I'm talking to Rachel Gibson!)But this author, Mary Kay Andrews, actually gets the legal mumbo jumbo right.
The plot summary given by the author describes this book much better than I ever could ..."Landing a catch like Talmadge Evans III got Eloise "Weezie" Foley a jewel of a town house in Savannahs historic district.
An antiques picker, Weezie combs Savannah's steamy back alleys and garage sales for treasures when she's not dealing with her loopy relatives or her hunky ex-boyfriend.
The resulting contrast effect between this book and the others I’ve been reading probably made me more forgiving than I otherwise would be.
Aside from her charming southern accent, her wry inflections sounded exactly the way I would have expected the heroine to sound and successfully increased the book’s humor quotient.With that said, I actually enjoyed this book more than I expected to.
Later, when the fiancée comes up murdered by a gun with Weezie’s fingerprints on it and Weezie is found at the scene, Weezie’s life is thrown into a tailspin.
I have yet to read a detailed sex scene that actually enhances the story.
I've owned this book for a couple months now.
I picked it up at my library's used book sale.
I'm fairly certain I've read at least one book by Mary Kay Andrews and since moving to Savannah I've enjoyed picking up books set in the city.
That alone made this book stand out to me.
From reading the synopsis of the next book it's more about BeBe. While this was a neat quick read I doubt I'll pick up the next one.
I loved the Callahan Garrity series by Mary Kay Andrews. The style and characters reminded me of Janet Evanovich and Stephanie Plum. It took a few minutes to get into this new series (New to me), but I warmed up pretty quickly to it. There are still the quirky characters and the funny adventures although it seems a bit more serious than the other books I’ve read by her. Looking forward to the next one.
I first read Savannah Blues in the mid-2000s.
While I did enjoy the Savannah Blues the second time around, I've noticed I'm not as big a fan of the "good southern girl" stories/heroines.
Savannah Blues is a fun story, with wacky shenanigans and a neat little murder mystery.
I noticed a stronger attachment this time around to Weezie's uncle James and his boyfriend Jonathan.
The first time I read Savannah Blues, it was an easy 5 stars for me.
This time around, I'd go with a strong 4 stars.
I definitely recommend Savannah Blues for anyone looking for a good time with two crazy southern women.
The first two-thirds were good.
The last third kind of dragged.It was pretty good - a lot of interesting characters.
It’s a mystery with a chick lit feel.
Someone is murdered early in the story which gets solved by the end.
There are delays/problems/questions regarding the cabinet which are resolved at the end.There is an on and off romance for Weezie and Daniel a chef.The ending was too fast.
It was technically happy, but I didn’t feel good enough at the end.One chapter was Weezie first person, the next chapter was third person.
Story length: 499 pages.
Genre: chick lit mystery with romance.
I listen when I am driving for work and I usually want something light, humorous and with a bit of mystery.
Sometimes I will listen for awhile to something and then decide it takes too much concentration and I have to quit.Savannah Blues was perfect.
It took me awhile to get into the story, but once I accepted the premises that Mary Kay Andrews was going with, I was hooked.Weezie Foley is a picker.
But if you like Savannah; learning a bit about antiques and want romance in your books - this is the one for you.
everyone did favors, etc., for her, while she really did nothing for them in return.Bebe was constantly there for her with help/shelter/advice/groceries/clothes/other needs, but Weezie makes her pay the "$50 profit" she would make on a cheesecake when she wanted to cut into it?
All of the things Bebe did for her, but she mentions that..
then proceeds to help her eat it...
Weezie couldn't even share a cake when Bebe had just helped her out of jail, took her in when needed, and brought groceries, etc.?
What a delightful and entertaining "listen".. I wanted something Southern for my drive and I absolutely loved this one. My only mistake was not borrowing the next one in the series for my drive back! The book had everything: mystery, love, betrayal, friendship, secrets, and revenge. I am somewhat new to audiobooks and the narrator was excellent, with her lowcountry southern accent to capture the essence of the book.
I wanted to like this book.
Andrews creates a great setting with a lot of fun characters.
I probably would have stopped reading the book if it wasn't for this.
It is a testament to her writing that I kept reading even though I wasn't fond of the main characters choices.
I am not sure how to classify this book, it read like a romance, had some mystery elements, also chick lit.
I have heard Savannah Breeze is much better, so will give that a shot because I really did like the world she created in Savannah.
While the book was readable and I did not have any trouble going back to it night after night, I found it to be poorly written.
Maybe I'm getting jaded but I don't think so.
I've enjoyed other books with simple plotlines and 1 dimensional characters.
The book is presented as the story of a woman who has huge problems and needs to contend with her incredibly awful family.
Weezie (and what a really stupid name by the way) had very normal issue to deal with, newly divorced, no romantic social life, limited funds to work with, a job that she gets no credit for completing competently.
Her family problems?
Every now and then, I indulge in a secret "chick lit" session.
I was looking forward to a good story about a strong Southern woman who is in a bad spot, but comes out on top.
That plot was there for me, but I could have done without the distracting side story about her uncle.
His story deserved its own book.
The main mystery about the murdered girlfriend was left by the wayside, and at the very end, a new mystery about forged antiques appeared and was swiftly resolved.
Not nearly as good as I had hoped, but a cute story in the end.
Second, the main character's boyfriend is THE WORST.
He actually comes off kinda rapey and irrational and it honestly worries me that the author thought she should write a character like this for the romantic interest.
Third, it also concerns me that a book set in the south only features like super white people.
There is not a single non-white person is this entire book, hmmmmm I wonder why.
The worst part is I actually paid for this book and I can't return it because Amazon has decided I return too many books and won't let me anymore.
Meh. I won't be reading any more books by this author. I love Southern literature, and I was pleasantly surprised to find this book was a Southern mystery, which was fun. But the character names bothered me (Weezie? Bebe? Gag.) and the story/character development wasn't good enough to offset the content I felt to be inappropriate. I HATED the way it ended too.
Book as a whole - 4 StarsStoryline with that douche Daniel Stipanik as a love interest- 1 StarHow can I get such wonderful, realistic female characters and the best the author can do for a love interest is an agro, sexually aggressive, fragile masculinity archetype??Give our women men who deserve them.
Cute southern mystery series.
cute read. cant wait to read the next one
During the divorce proceedings, Tal ended up getting their house (and moved Caroline in) and Weezie fought for and got their carriage house, which is in the same yard.
Her lawyer is her uncle James, a former priest with a secret of his own.In the meantime, Daniel, Weezie's boyfriend from high school, arrives back in town, working as the chef in her best friend, BeBe's restaurant, and he pursues her.This is the third book I've read by this author (it is the first in the Weezie and BeBe Mystery Series) and I liked it.
There is a lot going on but it moves at a good pace.
In Mary Kay Andrews’s delectable New York Times bestseller, Savannah Blues, readers will feel the sultry Georgia breezes and taste sea salt in the air, as they lose themselves in a wonderful, witty tale brimming with sass and peopled by a richly endearing cast of delightfully eccentric characters.
Revenge is sweeter than sweet in Mary Kay’s capable hands, and readers of Fannie Flagg, Adriana Trigiani, Emily Giffin, Rebecca Wells, and Jill Conner Browne will definitely want to spend some quality time in Savannah.Love Weezie just as much as I hate her ex 'Tat'..
Also love the wit and humor woven through the book.
I really enjoyed this cozy mystery.
Most of the characters were well drawn and certainly were people I would like to meet.
However, the character of Daniel..and the love interest...well, I just did not buy his behavior.
It was too much of a mix of teenager/adult to be believable.
It felt like the author could not decide which Daniel to write and so mixed several into one character.
Just did not work for me.
But, as he is a side character to the story, it did not deter from my overall enjoyment of this book.
I will continue with the series.
Meet Weezie (aka Eloise) Foley, a feisty antiques “picker,” banished by her spiteful ex-husband from the house she herself restored in Savannah’s historic district,.Personally I adore Savannah (although probably would never live there) and readers can feel the sultry Georgia breezes and taste sea salt in the air, as they lose themselves in a wonderful, witty tale brimming with sass and peopled by a richly endearing cast of delightfully eccentric characters. I laughed, was touched, and mostly just tickled pink listening to this fun tale.
It was a cute, quick read. I loved that it had a few different plots going on all tied to Weezie. I always enjoy Mary Kay's books. Every book I have read by her, is well written, the story flows great, and its a quick but enjoyable read! Would definitely recommend this book! :)
A novel that drips with Southern charm, wit and mysterious. A great summer read.
Just not my kind of read. The description was a little misleading; not enough drama.
I am pretty sure I already read this at some point in the mid/late 2000s. But I can't be sure. It was enjoyable for sure. And now I want to go to Tybee even more!
Loved this book. Weezie is a picker and there is a lot about antiques and a plantation house
This is my favorite summer read. I love the characters, the setting and the story. It's not over the top romance or cheesy.
I listened to this on audio and loved it! I enjoyed both the story and the narrator. It was a fun, fast pace story with enjoyable characters.
Fun!!! Love this author as she makes me laugh and be happy!
At one point, Weezie finds herself alone with this man in some cabin (while he's out, buying "rubbers") she tours the house and wants to make up the bed, yet thinks making up a bed will make her seem like a hussy.
Um, no, making up a bed won't do that....But spending $100 on lingerie and offering to sleep with a man you hardly know....that would make a girl look more like a hussy than making a bed.Finally lets discuss this $100 lingerie.
The romantic relationship overlying the book it almost identical....Weezie and Daniel (Savannah Blues) are exactly like Ellis and Ty (Summer Rental).
