https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/17983690-lick
Things I’ve learnt from new-adult Bad Boys (BB)1.
A BB never wears underwear under sexy jeans.2.
Only medium to zero confidence can attract a BB.3.
After some ruff patches, the BB is no longer a BB, but a SLP (sweet little poodle).5.
You will definitely hit it off with the best friend, who is a BB too, but will also become a SLP, probably in the next book.
6. The BB's bitchy-(but-sexier-than-you)-ex-girlfriend will definitely give you trouble.7.
The BB will definitely mess up.
Afterwards he will definitely beg.
He will under no circumstances let you wear this little cute black dress.
"So congratulations. You're married to a rock star."   I'd been wishing for a new rock star book and this one hit the spot and rocked my world!! Lick is an addictive blend of heart-warming passion and light-hearted fun. It's a story you can lose yourself in. The perfect rock star romance! 5 stars!This book had one of the all-time best beginnings ever. I challenge anyone to try and stop reading after the first page!Evelyn wakes up one morning with a killer hangover and painfully fuzzy memories
Needless to say, this happened in Vegas ;)From the very beginning, my heart was already breaking a little for this guy though because he clearly remembered what had happened despite her mindblank.
Now, don't get me wrong, there was heart-break, the characters messed up and it was certainly not all sunshine and rainbows but the way they reacted to everything was believable and never over-the-top.I also loved that the drama in this one was very personal.
It was a feel-good rock star romance with just the right amount of everything you could possibly want in one.
I LOVE ROCK STAR STORIES....it's so true...I CAN'T RESIST THEM...  LICK may not be the most believable rock star story ever written, but nevertheless it was an enjoyable read.The cover and title interested me…the rock star hero looked kind of dreamy, hot and sexy and I wondered what “lick” had to do with the story…..more about that later!!!!and , yes, David is quite a dish and believe me I would not mind being one of his “groupies”!!! and no….I found that “lick” meant nothing in the story!! Or d
LICK may not be the most believable rock star story ever written, but nevertheless it was an enjoyable read.The cover and title interested me…the rock star hero looked kind of dreamy, hot and sexy and I wondered what “lick” had to do with the story…..more about that later!!!!and , yes, David is quite a dish and believe me I would not mind being one of his “groupies”!!!
But….just roll with it and think…hey ANYTHING IS POSSIBLE IN FICTION…right!!!!...you begin to enjoy turning the pages, meeting some interesting and quirky characters….Mal (loved this guy) and Jimmy (David’s OOC (out of control) brother….both band members and their stories should be quite fun and interesting (hey, they are going to get their own book, right????).
OMG!!5 HOT ROCK N ROLL STARS!!!
So cute <3 <3"But I married you, Evelyn, because you made sense to me.
We're a whole lot better together than apart." What can I say about the sex scenes???????OMG freaking delicious!!!I love all the hot scenes!!“Can you feel what we’re doing here?
We’re building something.”The author managed to create two very believable characters!The tension between them keep me hooked!!There are so many things I loved about this book!!
If you're looking for some sweet,cute,funny and hot love story then I highly recommend this book for you!!
I knew they would end up together eventually, I just thought that I will have a blast reading about them going at each other, hating each other, fighting, while discovering things that they liked about one another and falling in love..
It was no-brainer, she walked in on something that wasn't what it looked like, but author made this huge drama out of it and dragged it on and on through the rest of the story.
Ev made it sound like there was something to make fuss about, but David, being a gentleman that he is, never did.
4 to 4 1/2–I'm glad I gave this book a second chance–StarsAfter my first failed attempt to read this book–explained in my original review below–I knew it would be a good idea to put it aside for awhile before giving it another try.
Word to the wise, if you know you're an emotional mess from the previous book you've just read, have been up half the night reading your next book and are bone tired, and you're having a difficult time following the plot, maybe it's a good idea to put the book down for the night.
"You made sense to me. We make sense. We're a whole lot better together than apart."  4 Rock Stars!This book was all I've ever needed in a rock star romance story. Lick was a sweet, fast moving, and guilty-pleasure book that was a pure joy to read.The story began when Evelyn "Ev" Thomas woke up with a realization that she's married to the famous lead guitarist of Stage Dive band, David Ferris. She happened to forget the details on how she got married to him though, because apparently it was a
Lick was a sweet, fast moving, and guilty-pleasure book that was a pure joy to read.The story began when Evelyn "Ev" Thomas woke up with a realization that she's married to the famous lead guitarist of Stage Dive band, David Ferris.
I've read a few rock star stories with equally hot rock star leads but David is quite different.
She didn't care about how rich and famous David is but instead she treated him like an ordinary guy.
It's my first time to read Kylie Scott's work and she sure made me fall in love with her writing style.
4.5 Lickable Stars!!!
This was such a fun and sweet book!
A really enjoyable read!
Going out for her 21st birthday, Evelyn wants to get a little wild, have a little fun.
So she goes to Vegas with her best friend.
The last thing she remembers is taking shots after midnight...
the next morning she wakes up with a ring on her finger and a tattoo on her ass.
And she can't remember a damn thing.
All I know is if I woke up married to this guy with a 5 carat rock on my finger, I would be asking NO QUE
All I know is if I woke up married to this guy with a 5 carat rock on my finger, I would be asking NO QUESTIONS at all ;)David remembers everything, yet Evelyn can’t remember a thing...
David isn’t happy that Evelyn doesn’t remember anything.
Evelyn realizes that she really likes David.
David still feels hurt and betrayed that Evelyn remembers nothing of their night together.
David + Evelyn = super hot chemistry!
David wasn’t perfect, he made some mistakes, but neither was Ev. They were, however, better together than apart.
‘I married you, Evelyn, because you made sense to me.
5 Rock Gods, FanGirls & Messy, Sexy Love Stars Love isn’t always smooth or straightforward. It can be messy and painful,” he said. “Doesn’t mean it isn’t still the most incredible thing that can ever happen to you. Doesn’t mean I’m not crazy about you.” “Play that lick again, Dave.” Lick: In rock music, a lick is "a stock pattern or phrase" consisting of a short series of notes that is used in solos and melodic lines.Well, personally, I prefer the more literal meaning... Hold meKiss meLICK M
DAVID FERRIS, YOU CAN LICK ME ANYTIME!What are the last or maybe the BEST words, a girl is expecting to hear, when she wakes up from an night of partying in Las Vegas with no recollection of the last 12 hours, with a hangover from hell and the first thing she sees, is a gorgeous bare-chested male specimen?
Will David fight for her with everything he has and will prove to her that love worths taking a plunge and risk your heart in the process?My inner fan-girl got loose, had a wild night in Vegas, joined a rock band and fell in love with a ROCKSTAR!!!
Devoured the entire Stage Dive series in two days! Fun, fantastic, sexy and heartfelt - a definite reread :))))
Ok I’m going to try something completely different here. Sometimes books remind you of certain songs, whether it be that a song is mentioned in the book I.e Angel in This Man. Mr Brightside in The Mighty Storm Or sometimes things happen, emotions are explained and you think of certain songs… I thought of a lot of songs while reading this… So If this book was a musical I think it would go something like this… Today, I woke up, thinking about Elvis somewhere in VegasI'm not sure how I got hereOr
Sometimes books remind you of certain songs, whether it be that a song is mentioned in the book I.e Angel in This Man. Mr Brightside in The Mighty Storm Or sometimes things happen, emotions are explained and you think of certain songs… I thought of a lot of songs while reading this… So If this book was a musical I think it would go something like this… Today, I woke up, thinking about Elvis somewhere in VegasI'm not sure how I got hereOr how this ring on my left hand just appeared outta nowhereI gotta go take the chips and the Pinto and hit the roadThey say what happens here, stays here, all of this will disappearThere's just one little problemI don't even know my last nameOh My momma would be so ashamedIt started off, "hey cutie where you from"And then it turned into "oh no, what have I done"And I don't even know my last nameWhat have I done  Last Name by Carrie Underwood“It’s not fair that you remember and I don’t.”“No,” he said, his voice hard, cold, in a way I hadn’t heard it.
4 DAVID FERRIS STARS "so, congratulations. You're married to a rockstar." Yes, yes, yes cinderella meets 'what happened in Vegas' meets a rockstar romance all combined to create the best kind of blissful book escape. 'Lick' was full of all kinds of treats, Rock God, famous beyond measure hero sweeps ordinary 21 year old off her feet in a whirl wind romance destined to be forever, did I love this book? You don't even need to ask, it had everything I loved tied up in a rock star package and as far
'Lick' was full of all kinds of treats, Rock God, famous beyond measure hero sweeps ordinary 21 year old off her feet in a whirl wind romance destined to be forever, did I love this book?
(if you haven't already guessed)Evelyn 'Ev' Thomas is an ordinary 21 year old looking for fun in Vegas for her birthday, a young woman who lives on the boring, safe side of life finds herself thrown into the limelight when her birthday celebrations are taken a step too far with a certain yummy rock God, David Ferris.
When Evelyn Thomas made plans to have an unforgettable night in Vegas for her 21st birthday, she had no clue that she would wake up the next morning Married to A stunning Rock God...David FerrisBut the problem is, Evelyn doesn't remember how it happened???A shocked Evelyn thinks she's made the biggest mistake of her life because not only is she married, she has his name tattooed on her ass!!Now what??Divorce?
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/ “Let me get this straight, you don’t remember anything?”“No,” I said, swallowing hard. “What did we do last night?”“We got fucking married.” I nearly crapped myself when I realized what Lick (stupid title is seriously effing stupid) was about . . . .  Oh my glob how I love the woke up married to a stranger storyline. Then I found out the stranger in question was a sexy musician!!!! BWAHAHAHAHA! Good luck getting that image out of your
Please note said leading male was actually a member of the long hair don’t care club, but long haired Leto just doesn’t do the same thing for me .
WHICH I AM GOING TO SPOIL RIGHT HERE BECAUSE IT’S A DEALBREAKER FOR A LOT OF YOU(view spoiler)[She catches him being kissed by his ex, but of course since everyone in these stories is effing brain damaged they don’t talk about it and instead break up only to get back together for the big HEA.
just thinking about it.ORIGINAL "REVIEW":It's a WOKE UP MARRIED TO A STRANGER storyline!!!!!
When I started reading Lick I said I wouldn't rate it IF I wouldn't like it.
ME.The beginning was kinda cute, nothing mind-boggling, nothing amazingly good, but still.
This being said, it was good enough until they left to go to his house in Monterey aaaaand the whole thing went down the drain once and for all.
In all honesty, I hadn't expected to read another book of this epic magnitude but Lick licked lacked big time.
and abandoned the book.Now we're coming to the good part coz I need a goody to give me solace.
I'm a fan of Myles Kennedy and Alter Bridge.
To say I enjoy this breath of fresh air would be putting mildly!This story grabs a reader from the first paragraph as our main character Evelyn wakes up in Vegas MARRIED.
She wakes with a 5 freaking karat diamond ring on her hand and no recollection of the guy in her hotel room or anything that happened the night before when she was out celebrating her 21st birthday.Evelyn was such a great female character.
Lick was a very amusing story with terrific characters (loved Mal) and a terrific couple who was not only off the charts in the bedroom but had a connection worth holding onto.
♥ It's been far too long since I read a rockstar romance read and jumping back into it, I realised how much I missed the fun smexy times of dating one of these bad boys.It was a really fun read with hilarious banters all around from the band members like Mal <-- oh yes love him!
I just ate that up when David had so much grovelling to do to get Evelyn back, so that makes me a very happy angst whore :D Overall super fun smexy read of the rockstar romance genre and can't wait to read more from this series!
even if you have absolutely no recollection of the whole thing!Good, respectable, sensible, Portland girl, Evelyn Thomas might have been planning on getting laid, on her 21st birthday, in Vegas...
When she wakes up, hanging like a bitch, on a hotel bathroom floor, with no memory of marrying the gorgeous but mysterious man lying next to her, who is none other than David Ferris, guitarist of rock band, 'Stage Dive', the obvious answer to her problems is an annulment.
And what if Evelyn actually realises she might quite like the sexy, dark, brooding God of rock?David.
2 STARS“Rough sex doesn’t fix everything. Sometimes you actually have to talk.” As much as possible, I try to push myself as a reader, to read beyond comfort zones, expand horizons and challenge my imagination. I've yet to scratch the surface of these wonderful worlds, yet to have read and quoted every heart-wrenching dialogue crafted especially to gut me every imaginable way...But sometimes, I just want to read some smut.Not the funny, absurd kind with men who cums jarfuls of semen but the smu
Like the Thundercats answering Lion-O.Unfortunately, I am not a Thundercat (dammit!) and while the lure of sex, drugs and rock and roll is strong on this one, I could not switch off that part of me that needs to connect with the characters, to make sense of their actions and thoughts that enables me to empathize with their requisite drama and share in their joy as they triumph against all odds.I thought the premise of Lick was promising: a girl wakes up in Vegas married to a rockstar without any such recollection on their wedding night.
OH MY OH MY I AM OFFICIALLY IN LOVE WITH DAVID FERRIS!!!!!!    Straight to the point, My David Waking in Vegas must be so interesting when this happens:1. You wake up besides a hottie rockstar2. You have a huge diamond ring 3. You have no memories of what happened previous night 4. N YOU ARE MARRIED I def added this into my dream list! VEGAS + ROCK STAR + MARRIED  That's the situation, Evelyn Thomas finds herself in! Meet her: LOVE. I am in love with Evelyn and David. Lick has the perfect blen
OH MY OH MY I AM OFFICIALLY IN LOVE WITH DAVID FERRIS!!!!!!
Waking in Vegas must be so interesting when this happens:1.
VEGAS + ROCK STAR + MARRIED 
I am in love with Evelyn and David.
Doesn't mean it isn't still the most incredible thing that can ever happen to you.""Do you, Evelyn Jennifer Thomas, agree to stay married to me, David Vincent Ferris?" "It's you and me against the world" "David, for fuck's sake, I'm in love with you" David Ferris will have you swooning and I have added him into your favourite rockstar book character list!
*4.75 "Hi" Stars*Mix together What Happens in Vegas, The Hangover and throw in a smoking hot Rock Star and you have this book. Ev wakes up in Vegas after celebrating her 21st birthday and she can't remember a single thing about the night before. When she sees a strange man, David , in her room she ask him what happened last night.  "We got f*cking married."  SERIES:    Each book will feature a different band member.Book 1 - David | Book 2 - Mal | Book 3 - Jimmy | Book 4 - ?
4 amnesiac stars I really enjoyed this opening book of the Stage Dive series from Kylie Scott – it’s charming, funny and deeply romantic full of well-rounded characters and a dynamic plot to keep you engaged right through to the very end.Turns out, the old expression ‘What happens in Vegas, stays in Vegas’ probably doesn’t apply if an Elvis impersonator is somehow involved.  "Let me get this straight, you don't remember anything?" "No," I said, swallowing hard. "What did we do last night?" "We
Turns out that  night she can’t remember meant just about everything to him and, after her initial shock, she allows him to slowly and rather creatively help bring back the memories.The book follows the well worn path of boy meets girl, boy and girl fall in love, boys fucks up ,monumentally and loses girl and boy does just about everything in his power to get her back but this isn’t trite at all – it’s well written and the narrative flows beautifully with Kylie Scott’s accomplished style and, with her easy humour, Lick is a charming and engaging read.There’s a whole lot of series building going on here with the other members of the band being introduced in all their glory with the promise of some edgy rockstar romances to come as the series progresses.
(Better than the shoe thing, I think.)So, Evelyn wakes up in Vegas with a rock star husband and a tattoo of his name on her ass.
It could have been worse.A lot worse.Evelyn doesn't remember a thing and this upsets David because he thought he found his one true love in Las Vegas and married her the same night.
and didn't get a pre-nup.Sooo, I'm thinking David isn't the sharpest tool in the shed.But, he's hot, and the name of this book is "Lick", so I'll allow it.That sidewalk power-nap may have helped them avoid this whole thing.
“What did we do last night?”“We got fucking married,” he growled.” Evelyn didn't know anything about her husband until the paparazzi, and her best friend, Lauren ensure her who he is.
It will have you smiling from cheek to cheek, chuckling at the things that are said from Mal to Evelyn to David.
He had the bad boy act all because he was a rock star but David was vulnerable, had huge trust issues and wanted to feel something 'real.' He's been hurt and cheated on many times (dumb whore *rolls eyes*) but marrying Evelyn was the best thing for him.
I need a rock star husband.
Since her husband happens to be David Ferris, a rocks star, what happens in Vegas certainly isn't staying in Vegas.
“What did we do last night?”“We got fucking married,” he growled.
Until you felt sick.”“We spooned?”“Yep,” he said.
One thing I really respected was how she didn’t search the web for information on the band and David.
Another thing I liked about this book was how Kylie Scott described the famous/ rock star lifestyle.
I wanted to really feel everything like I was there and not just reading what was happening.
3.5 stars. Liked it. Good story, nice characters. I seriously thought that being on holidays, I would have way more time to read and review. Too busy doing other things.... have my own Rock n Roll in the coming days/weeks with with concerts to see The Boss (more than once) and Glen Hansard.....
4 'Lick Me' Stars! Imagine waking up in the morning with a hangover, really bad headache, feeling sick, sleeping on the bathroom, no memory, and on top of that married! What would you do if you woke up, remembering nothing but taking shots at midnight and seeing a big ass ring on your finger? Yup my friend, that's exactly what happened to Evelyn Thomas. All she ever wanted was to celebrate her twenty-first birthday in Las Vegas. But what she ended up with was a bad hung over, a tattoo on her ass
But what she ended up with was a bad hung over, a tattoo on her ass check, and a ring that probable costs more than she can ever imagine.She doesn't remember anything.
You’re married to a rock star.”Lets just say when she found out she didn't take the news very well.Like I said about Channing Tatum
He loomed over me, jaw set.“It’s not fair that I remember and you don’t, Evelyn.”She doesn't want this marriage.
Loved the way he loves Ev and everything about him.“I married you, Evelyn, because you made sense to me.
I wanted her to remember the night she got married but she didn't so that's the only problem I have.Overall...
and it still isn't happening???😕 Maybe I need to quickly Book me a trip to Vegas....This book just proves my point, if you like fantasy....
you will truly enjoy romance!💕 Even though this book was highly unlikely, to actually happen I still loved it!
I truly enjoyed the girl....
I think I might find Mal A little more compelling......Highly recommend this book and all the other books in the series to all fans of love, romance, girls with some sass, and hot musicians😍You can check out all our Flashback Friday reviews along with the audiobook narration at V and my blog...https://audiokilledthebookmark.com/
All I could do was stare. Given my current condition, he was just too much. The hair, face. Body, ink, all of it. Someone needed to invent a word superlative enough to describe him. When Evelyn wakes up on the floor of a Vegas hotel bathroom with the hangover from hell, the last thing she expects to hear from the hot but unfamiliar looking inked up hottie taking care of her is that they’re married. Say what? The poor girl can’t remember anything after tequila shots and this sexy stranger’s clai
When Evelyn wakes up on the floor of a Vegas hotel bathroom with the hangover from hell, the last thing she expects to hear from the hot but unfamiliar looking inked up hottie taking care of her is that they’re married.
When David, hot guitar player extraordinaire, figures out Evelyn has absolutely no recollection of the amazing night they shared he storms out promising to take care of the situation.
And so begins new couple phase for Evelyn and David.
That being said, if you can’t handle the insta-love thing this book may not be for you.
I ended up really liking this one!
I tried to read it back in 2013 but for some reason I just couldn't get though it...
I kept saying I was going to try again one day..
I read it but also when I was driving I'd listen to the audio version..
cute story.
Will definitely be reading the next one, Mal's story.
Edit April 2015// So many people love this series..
I think I need to give this one another shot soon.
July 2013 Moved to DNF list at 61%...
just wasnt feeling it.
Might come back to it later
