https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1342091.Me_Too_
* * * Read and reviewed with my niece Emma * * *During our after school time together, Emma and I read through a few of Mercer Mayer's Little Critter books and had ourselves a grand old time!This one was about the little kid's kid sister and how she always wants to do what he's doing.
She can be annoying, yet endearing all at once.
This is typical, good Mayer fun!Emma read Me Too!
to me and wizzed right through it, so the reading level is below her nearly second grade skillz.
This little critter series had more to offer than just teaching manners and methods to annoy your elder brother! The girl critter wants to do everything her brother does, which is frustrating to the brother. It is a good reading material for siblings.
Probably around a level 1 beginner reader book, it's about a boy with a younger sister who wants to do everything he does. It gets annoying and he gets frustrated. It's a story line any kid can relate to and simple enough verbiage that my preschoolers enjoyed it as well. And it was easy enough that my 5 yr old could read it to his younger brothers. A good reading book.
"Everything I do my little sister says "Me Too!""Loving this Little Critter series!
This playful book was a fun read aloud! The students were able to chime in regularly with the "me too!" phrase. Many of my students have siblings and were able to share stories of their younger (and sometimes older) siblings wanting to either imitate what they're doing or spoil their fun. The students and I laughed tons during this book and enjoyed the twist at the end. Great book about siblings and even friendship.
First sentence: When my little sister saw me riding my skateboard, she said...Me Too!
But my little sister saw it and said...Me Too!
Then she threw it in a tree.Premise/plot: Little Critter HATES to hear his little sister say "Me Too!" Will I have to SHARE everything?
I don't know that it's my absolute all-time favorite in the Little Critter series.
(Do most people have an ongoing ranked list of Little Critter books in mind?) But I really enjoy it.
I love Little Critter.
And as the end of the book shows, she is a good little sister too.Text: 4 out of 5Illustrations: 5 out of 5Total: 9 out of 10
A Little Critter book that shows younger siblings will often want to be involved in whatever their older sibling is doing. I think it's in order for parents to explain to their children why it's important to try and include their brother or sister in their doings.
I love Mercer Mayer books. My five year old has me read them over and over again. The illustrations are great and very descriptive. It is easy for a child to follow along and retell the story. This book addresses everyday situations, especially if you have a younger sibling.
My son loves the Little Critter books. We read them all the time!
I'm counting what I have read to the first graders because I don't have time to read real books during the day and I have a goal to meet- part 8
This is a cute book about having a younger sibling.
Cute! Siblings can be so annoying! But they can also be pretty great :)
I was relieved to discover this was not #metoo and have read it repeatedly to my son.
Easy book to read with children. Simply point out the speech bubble of "Me Too!" on nearly every page and they quickly say the words.
Little Critter's younger sister wants to do everything with her older brother.
Little Critter is trying to learn how to do the right thing while also learning how to share with his little sister.
Each time this situation arises, he is forced to make a decision based on what would be easier for him, or what would make her happy.
He is a good big brother so he does what makes her happy most of the time.
They incorporate every day situations so that kids can relate to them and see that making other people happy and putting others first can make other people happy.
•Me, Too by Mercer Mayer - Target Audience, pre-reader to beginning reader, ages 2-6.
A little sister wants to do all the things her big brother does.
He is annoyed that he has to include her but reluctantly slows down to her level.
The amount of text is brief for each page, of average size, and includes speech bubbles for the speaking character.The simple is text and the repetitive nature of the “Me, too” dialogue is a helpful cue for early readers.
Lessons about including others even when it changes the experience would come naturally to the adult/child reading pair.
My nieces and I really enjoy the Little Critter books.They're short, they're funny, they're topical, and they're cheap. This one portrays a very real aspect of sibling relationships - the sibling who always wants to join in and share, even when you REALLY want them to leave you alone.Little Critter spends the book detailing his problems, in short sentences, until the end - when his sister unselfishly shares her candy with him, and hopefully teaches him a lesson in the process.
The thing I love about this book, is it encourages early reading. A kid can quickly figure out that each page ends with the words, "Me too!" So, no matter how young your child is, they think they can read, which is ALWAYS a good thing. I have often teased my three or four year old after reading this, saying, "hey what are you doing? You can't read yet, you are not in school!" And then comes that cute smile that they've accomplished something early. We are huge Mercer Mayer fans.
An older brother having to share with and take care of his younger sister - typical occurance in life. This book portrays that image perfectly! Little Critter learns to get along with his sister and lets readers know that one day, baby sisters will grow up and will take on more responsibility. The only thing I do not like in this book is the illustration. This goes for all books in this series. It is a personal opinion.
Tomahawk 360. Not only did the grasshopper show up in the background of each pictorial as expected but the spider did as well. Siblings can be tough. I can empathize with that Little Critter when the wails of his little 'blessing' sister reverberate through his critter skull. Though he may feel unloved, he knows that he is not. Mercer clearly reaches places within himself here that can only be expressed through this brilliant work.
This was such a cute story about a brother and a sister. I would recommend this book for any age until about fifth grade. It is also a great book for use in the younger age classroom for a read aloud because of the inflection needed to read and the predictable word bubbles that they can join in on during the reading.
I love this book! Great story that lots of children can relate to (annoying sibling) and it has a cute ending as well. This book holds a lot of sentimental value for me, as it was the first book I could read by myself. I think this book is great to teach about sharing, because who knows when that person will be able to help you!Genre: FictionGrade Level: Pre-K- 1
Me Too!Rate: 5I gave this book 5 stars because it reminds me of my little sister and whenever I wanted to do something my sister had to come along but at the end of the day I do love my sister so I put up with it. It is a good book to read especially to children with siblings. They can really make that connection to the book.
I like this book a lot because it teaches kids about sharing in a simple but fun way. His sister wants to play and be just like her big brother and although he finds it annoying he has to share. In the end though his little sister makes it up to him buy sharing her candy cane. The story is really cute and this is a good beginner book for kids.
An excellent example of beautiful simplicity. Repetition that is captivating and not irksome. Phrasing that the little ones will enjoy predicting as you read, and a perfect amount of humor. Loved this series when I was a kid and unlock some other ones I've gone back and read, these ones still hold up years later.
I was the oldest sibling in my family so I understand that nagging little person getting their way. always using that crying and sad face to prove that you did something to them. I like this book because children need someone to relate to so why not a book. Good reading, sequencing, and blend words.
When I was about 5 my brother was 6 and he read this book to me. I'm pretty sure he regretted that decision because I made him read it over and over. It was perfect because I wanted to be just like him, like the little sister in the book!
A cute book about the bond between a brother and his little sister, who just wants to do everything her brother does. This book is great to read for children who have siblings or a friend that they look up to.
Little Critter's sister always wants to do exactly what he does but she always seems to mess things up. In the end, Little Critter ends up wanting to do something that his sister does. This is an excellent story to read to children because the can chime in on the "Me Too!" parts.
this is, for some reason, one of my favorite books at the moment. Since I don't have a sibling, mom's not sure why I'm fascinated with Little Critter and his sister who follows him around, butting in on all his fun. But it IS a really cute book.
