https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/826769.As_for_Me_and_My_House
The lights on the street and in the houses against the black wetness, little unilluminating glints that might be painted on it.
. ." An amazing Canadian novel from 1941, AS FOR ME AND MY HOUSE has been growing in stature for over 75 years.
Never mind that, AS FOR ME AND MY HOUSE is a great book and should be read -- more than once is best.
Something I had neglected to mention when I originally reviewed this book: although this novel is set in Canada (Saskatchewan, "Canada's Breadbasket"), it does not dwell on its Canadian-ness.
I would rather poke my eyes out with a rusty needle than read this again.
Not a book that most adolescents would enjoy, but my favourite Canadian novel. An overlooked classic that deserves more attention internationally. Yes, it's bleak, but it's gloriously bleak.
Oh Mrs.Bentley, I still don't know what to make of you after having finished this book.The novel is set in the prairies during the depression and written in diary entries from her point of view.She is certainly not a reliable narrator, but at the same time, she has moments of such lucidity that it makes you wonder if she's really just deceiving herself.
(view spoiler)[Rather it is in his realizations, revealed through the story in his artwork, that he is like the horses he paints(his name means lover of horses); then his resignation in the end to continue to be tied like those horses together to his wife.

i hated this book so fucking much omgGOOD GOD. THAT WAS ALMOST PHYSICALLY PAINFUL TO READ. Nope. Scratch that. This WAS physically painful to read. This book is The Actual Worst.
I hated the mandatory high school short story "The White Door" by Sinclair Ross - so dreary, boring and Canadian - ECKIn my early twenties a colleague heard me complain about the experience & thrust Sinclair's only novel into my hand and said I must read it.
Sinclair's language and descriptions of the prairie are unique and have a dream like quality.
The language, that complex wife & husband relationship and the house itself all bring you along on their story of small town Canadian life and new horizons.
"As for Me and My House" is a story that takes place on the Canadian Plains during the Depression.
A preacher's wife is the narrator and protagonist of the novel, writing her diary entries during a year in a small town of Horizon.
It goes from boring, to depressing, to disappointing, to a final throw down of the book upon the table after I forced myself to read all 230-odd pages of the book.
I found that the woman (who is never really named) was weak and hollow and the husband was petulant and moody and not in the cute EMO way either.Read it if you must.
I read this book originally in grade 12 with an incredible Canadian Literature teacher. He made this solemn, still-seeming novel into something intricate and mysterious. He suggested the possibilities of Mrs. Bentley as an orchestrator of all the events of the novel, he made this simple book into an extraordinary complex novel with incredible imagery, symbolism, and hidden possibilities that are not immediately obvious. I read it again 2 years later at the university level, and although I'm still amazed by Mrs. Bentley, her role and influence within the plot seemed perhaps more obvious, and also more uncertain.
For over two hundred and thirty pages Ross illustrates the slow, painful disintegration of a marriage in a small town somewhere in Canada. If your wife ever plans on divorcing you for sleeping with her younger sister in Mexico after video footage of your honeymoon surfaces on the internet, just get her to read this novel. Then you can be like: "See babe. We're not so bad...".
The book is literally a women recording the events of her life for around a year and yet it tells so much more.Such a flawed unreliable narrator and we never even learn her name which makes sense as this book is technically her diary so why would she mention her name?
In other words, the unnamed wife of the Pastor Phillip dedicates her entire world to her husband.
She is fully aware of her obsession and knows it's not good nor right.
She is fully aware that her husband does not and will not include her in his life.
Not the pain of a bad book but the pain of a tormented main character, one so terribly inconsequential in her own mind that she never even gives us that most basic and personal piece of information about herself, a name.
This woman made me feel anger because she wouldn't see her husband as the mean, selfish fraud that he was, then sadness because her pain was deep and constant, and finally almost hopeless, because sometimes life just seems too, too hard.In the end I found myself asking who the real coward was.
After careful consideration and a night's sleep, I'm fairly certain this is the worst book I have ever read in my life.I wish I could divorce myself from my feelings about the plot and the characters.
I can admire the cleverness of his writing, the unreliable narrator, the intricacies of the plot, and the stark realism.But I just CANNOT read a novel that is so realistic it is boring.
Because the novel makes you feel trapped.This book made me DEPRESSED, like reading Elizabeth Wurtzel.
But at least with reading her, I'm like "oh hey I'm never gonna turn into a crazy woman with a trichtillomaniac obession for pulling my leg hairs out with tweezers!
Phillip Bentley feels crippled by his hypocrisy and suffocated by life in the "false-front towns" where he preaches on the Canadian prairie.
Mrs. Bentley in turn suffers from Phillip's emotional distance and the disconnect that she feels from the people in the town of Horizon.Told exclusively from Mrs. Bentley's perspective, As For Me and My House manages to convey the barren grandeur of the landscape and the stifling quality of small-town life.
The language of the novel is sparse and haunting and it builds to create a sense of emotional weight within the reader.
I read this book some years ago, but I remember finding it an immensely good read. It's definitely not a happy story, but Sinclair Ross enables readers to almost taste the dust of the 1930s prairie dust storms, and feel the tension between the husband and wife in the story. This is a book I will definitely look for and read again.
We’ll written, colorful and language about living in a treacherous time. A slow moving story, but moves in interesting ways. The main character was challenging to relate to, but probably because of the time in which it is set. Although fiction, it is a very believable tale.
Thoroughly depressing.
If the Little House on the Prairie books had been written in Canada, geared towards adults who enjoy being depressed.
I'd read one other Sinclair Ross story before this (the short story "A Field of Wheat"), and for a man who was a banker by profession I must say he was an extraordinarily savvy writer, being able to evoke powerful, rich images in his sparse and bleak snapshots of Canadian prairie life in the early twentieth century.Written as a diary during the Depression era, the tale is told from the vantage point of Mrs. Bentley, a middle-aged minister’s wife whose first name is never revealed.
It's hard to like a book that makes you think so much, and ties very closely to negative experiences that you may have had, but this one managed to make me do just that.
Ross' narrator remains unnamed throughout the story and really makes you focus on what is going on in her life, the plot, rather than on her, the character, specifically.
Having said that, unless you have lived in a very small town, this book may not truly make sense to you.
I've lived in two, both in Ross' home province of Saskatchewan, I'm painfully well aware of what life can be like in said small towns.
*3.5
this book came into my home and beat me up, then ate all my groceries and left. a must-read
Mrs. Bentley is a complex character; while sometimes infuriatingly dependent, she also reveals a very human hypocrisy and weakness.
The result is something that works quite well as a glimpse at the Depression—but it still leaves me with some reservations.I shall start and end with Mrs. Bentley.Really, everything about As for Me and My House comes back to our narrator.
Close friends of the Bentleys, like Paul and Judith, orbit this arrangement.Mrs. Bentley’s entries, in both style and subject matter, usually concentrate on the details: her descriptions are meticulous and precise; her concerns are often quotidian, related to budgets and numbers and the pragmatism necessary in an economic depression.
However, the story being told by the wife (she remains nameless all through the book) I was sad, albeit not surprised, to have it told in a submissive, almost weak voice that had let go of all desires and dreams.It's a woman's way, I suppose, to keep on trying to subdue a man, to bind him to her, and it's a man's way to keep on just as determined to be freeFinal thoughtsWhile I enjoyed the experience given by this story I did not enjoy the story itself, nor did I like the narrator.
The town is suffering, many people are barely scraping by after 5 years of drought, and the social life of the town is that of so many small towns - stifling, harsh and dull.
But our minister's wife is at the end of her tether and I think her interpretation of her town and its inhabitants often lacks kindness because of this.
I also think it might be hard to identify with her struggles if you are young and the world is your oyster.
It was put on high school courses throughout English speaking Canada because of the vigorous manner in which it attacked all the ills of our society: the mean spiritedness of small town anglophone canada, self-satisfied Protestant ministers and the general horror of living in a land with no culture.
I think that Canadians today can take legitimate pride in our authors such as Margaret Attwood, Michael Ondaatje, Nicolas Dickner, Michel Tremblay, Yves Beauchemin Sandra Birdsell, Yann Martel, Roberston Davies, Mavis Gallant and many others.I am particularly happy that our first Nobel Prize winner Alice Munro was quite the opposite of Sinclair Ross, without being for one minute blind to the faults of small town English Canada, she has also brilliantly defended its good points.
Mrs. Bentley hates the town, hates the people, hates the life, and is fed-up with her husband for not demanding his salary or even requesting better living conditions, but more importantly for not leaving pastoring and focusing on art which is his skill.
Will the Bentleys find happiness in a new town?The story provides us with vivid images of life on the prairies during the depression years.
We only see things from her perspective, and since she spends so much time second-guessing every one else’s words and behaviours, the story is a slightly frustrating read.
If I ever hear one more reference to dust, walking down the train track, moths, or, heaven forbid, 'false fronts'...This was a mandatory read for my Canadian Lit class and let me tell you, I am glad to have Goodreads to get out my emotions after having just finished the novel.WOW.
What was there ahead of her now anyway?" This is after Judith DIES and Mrs. Bentley takes her baby.
There were so many times I wanted to throw this book down but, my book religion includes that I finish every book I ever pick up and start because judging it without fully reading it is a sin.
This novel takes the form of a diary by the unnamed wife of Philip Bentley, a frustrated painter who has been a small town church minister for a number of years in spite of his apparent lack of faith.
Mrs. Bentley dreams of a better future for them and strives to save enough of their meager funds so that they can buy a store enabling her husband to leave the ministry and pursue his art.
This is an excellent novel and deserves its place among classic Canadian literature.
