https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/15677.Strangers_on_a_Train
When Guy Haines and Charles Anthony Bruno meet on a train, they discover they have one thing in common: each of them has someone they would be better off without.
When Haines' estranged wife winds up strangled, he finds himself caught in Bruno's psychotic, alcoholic web...Yeah, that makes the book sound really gripping.
Guy Haines is too by the book and Bruno is an alcoholic mama's boy, more sad that anything else.It may have been a case of wrong book, wrong time, but the engine just didn't turn over for me with this one.
When I was in my 20s- living in Toronto and traveling on the train to visit my parents 4 hours away- I always thought there was nothing worse than trying to read my book while having some annoying fellow passenger try to start a conversation...but then I watched Alfred Hitchcock's STRANGERS ON A TRAIN and realized- Nope it could have been worse.
His idea- I kill your wife, you kill my father...STRANGERS ON A TRAIN is a psychological thriller that stays with you.
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/In order to prove that NO, I DON’T ONLY READ PORNOS THANK YOU VERY LITTLE I begged Steve to pull me out of my downward spiral and buddy read this one with me.
It was at this point my husband pointed out that in the course of our 20 year marriage there has been an annual Alfred Hitchcock movie marathon on Turner Classic Movies and that he was pretty sure the winner of first place in my heart was .
The majority of the book was just “meh” page filler with little character development aside from each respectively losing their marbles.
“My mistake was telling a stranger my private business.” — Guy HainesThis is my first Highsmith book, which is a shame because I have seen most movie adaptations of her novels. Throw Mama from the Train is one of my all-time favorite movies, and now I’ve finally read the book that the movie is loosely based on.The book itself is far from comedic. Written in 1950, this gritty noir novel is mostly set in New York. Guy Haines, an up and coming architect, meets Charlie Bruno on a train bound for hi
“My mistake was telling a stranger my private business.” — Guy HainesThis is my first Highsmith book, which is a shame because I have seen most movie adaptations of her novels.
Guy Haines, an up and coming architect, meets Charlie Bruno on a train bound for his Texas hometown, where he is due to meet up with his estranged wife.
Though he doesn’t exchange too much personal information, Bruno has an uncanny perception of Guy’s mind and the real nature of his relationship with Miriam, his wife.
Everything has its opposite close beside it. Why don't people write thrillers like Patricia Highsmith anymore? This, her first novel, boasts an iconic plot, gruelling tension, characters with psychological complexities, and plenty of intellect to balance out murderous actions. Plus, a psychopath. She's so good at the psychopaths.I'm not surprised Alfred Hitchcock found this book worthy inspiration for his 1951 film. It's clever. Two men meet on a train journey. Guy, our 'hero', on his way to se
Bruno shares that he wishes his father were dead, and suggests a plan for the "perfect murder": Bruno kills the wife, Guy kills the father, and >pouf< all their problems disappear.
No one would be the wiser because the men are strangers and can't be connected.Guy being normal, is repelled by Bruno and his switcheroo idea, and removes himself.
The idea of opposites, good and evil, as naturally coexisting forces, is exemplified in the characters of Guy and Bruno, but also within Guy himself.
How much threat is necessary to cause a basically 'good' person to commit murder?
Haines talks about his problems with Miriam and Bruno talks about his hatred for his father.
Before long Bruno makes a suggestion: the two men should "exchange murders." That is, Bruno should kill Miriam and Haines should kill Bruno's dad - and having no demonstrable motive - neither man will be suspected.
Before long, however, Bruno tracks Miriam down and murders her.
I wanted to jump into the book and shout at Haines to "get that nutcase out of your life" but of course that would have spoiled the plot.
I enjoyed the book.
After reading The Talented Mr. Ripley, I confess I really did want to like this book more.
But, given this was her debut novel it's pretty darn good and does make one think: Could a manipulative psychopath really drive one to this kind of evil by the arousal of fear??
A seemingly normal “Guy” and psychopath Bruno are strangers on a train whose secrets revealed lead to Bruno suggesting they create the “perfect murder".
Strangers on a Train was more like watching a train wreck—it made me really uncomfortable yet somehow I couldn’t bring myself to turn away, but wanted to get past it quickly!
Since the author preferred to be discreet about her personal life, my speculations here are gratuitous, but it is interesting to note the level of analysis that can be supported in the behaviour observations of Highsmith's characters.The third part of the novel started to drag on for me, as the lines are already drawn in the conflict of personalities between Bruno and Guy, the action is concluded, and the only unresolved issue is the aftermath of the crime.
It contains a lot of the early hints of some of her later, great Ripley novels: obsessiveness, insanity, meticulous crimes, impulsiveness, boats, doppelgängers, homoeroticism, art, food, etc.
I didn't enjoy it as much as the Ripley novels, but even without knowing the great body of work to follow this one book, 'Strangers on a Train' contains enough to convince even the most hardened skeptic that Highsmith wasn't just an innocent young writer hoping to make her mark.
I can only begin to imagine how this novel (dropping in 1950), written by a woman, would have contained its own unique blast zones.
Apparently Highsmith liked both psychology and “literary” fiction; she studied the psych texts of her time, and also liked Camus, Dostoevsky, the darker guys that inform a lot of noir.
Anyway, there's a lot you are going to have to question about in this story beyond your disbelief about Guy becoming murderer.But, Highsmith has other concerns in her psychological drama:“Any kind of person can murder.
Drink, present in most detective stories and noir in particular (and looking back to Dostoevsky), is also an interesting aspect of this story:“The way to see the world was to see it drunk.
Budding architect Guy Haines is currently in the process of trying to divorce unfaithful wife Miriam
Charley Bruno is a psychopath, insane, beyond the pale--but Guy is just a guy like me or you who gets embroiled in a situation not of his making and becomes an active participant.
Sounds like he would be hard to understand, but what makes this work is that he isn’t.
Makes you feel like life turns on a dime and you could cross a line without even knowing it is there.If you love this kind of tense, dramatic conundrum, this is one of the best.
I hate having my gut in knots when it doesn’t serve a higher purpose, and this is like a horror film--pure entertainment, if you like to be entertained that way.
Since I haven't seen this movie, I wasn't aware that this book was the inspiration for Alfred Hitchcock's classic 1951 film with the same title until after I finished reading this book.
Of course it did not work out as planned, but evil did gain the upperhand in this classic, dark, gritty, psychological thriller.
The duality of the weak versus the strong determines the outcome of the two people who meet on the train.
It's a gripping story, but gritting on the teeth.
But wow, what a story!
Finito And really, I do not want to watch the movie.
Told in third person omniscient point of view, Strangers on a Train features nicely fleshed-out main characters Guy Haines, a buttoned-up architect, and Charles Bruno, a relaxed character who spends most of his time inebriated.
(hide spoiler)] Guy’s work situation has little, if any, relevance to the greater story, so it’s hard to care about his work worries.
(hide spoiler)] It’s all very muddled, and the second half is thus markedly weaker than the first.The attention on obsessive psychopathy is mostly in the beginning and is fascinating and the main reason to read Strangers on a Train.
All in all, Strangers on a Train is a simple, merely good story.
Each was what the other had not chosen to be, the cast-off self, what he thought he hated, but perhaps in reality loved."Strangers on a Train is another case where most people have seen the movie but haven't read the book or didn't know there was a novel behind it.
The basic plot is the same -- two men, total strangers, meet on a train; one (Bruno) is a psychopath and in conversation things eventually come around to the concept of the "perfect murder." Bruno will get rid of the woman who stands in the way of the other man's (Guy Haines) path to happiness, and Guy in return, will get rid of Bruno's father.
I went into this already familiar with Hitchcock’s film version of the same story.
Two strangers meet on the train and discuss among other things, people in their lives: a Wife, a Father, who they would be better off without.
One of these strangers, Charles Bruno, is an extremely well imagined sociopath, while the other, Guy, is a mild mannered architect whose role in this story I never entirely accept.
(view spoiler)[Bruno murders Guy’s wife, (hide spoiler)] even though Guy never agreed to this plan.
After this setup the film and the book are very different.
The book delves into the conscience of Bruno and Guy and takes you into their heads.
I was prepared for some lack of suspense because I knew the story - but was not at all prepared for boredom, which is all the book gave me.The movie itself has plot holes - only to be expected in any Hitchcock film, as he himself touts his use of the MacGuffin - but the director always gets away with it because of his masterly handling of pace and suspense.
I got seriously fed up with Guy's ruminations.Maybe I'd have enjoyed the novel if I had come to it without expectations.
3.5 stars. This was one of the rare cases where the movie was actually better than the book. The novel unfortunately had a few too many slow spots where the plot just dragged, but overall I did still enjoy the story and the characters.
Strangers On A Train was worth the hype. It was worth my time.
It’s no secret that I love a good psychological thriller, but I’ve only read recent books from within this genre so I decided to broaden my range.Strangers on a Train tells the story of Charles Anthony Bruno and Guy Haines, two men that meet while they are on the same train.
Of course, Bruno was just joking around…wasn’t he?I enjoyed that the story alternated between both Guy & Bruno’s perspectives.
The narrator was very whiny and he raised his voice a lot when reading in Bruno's perspective and it kind of irritated me while listening with headphones.
As the hours pass, the two men, loosened by alcohol, begin to share their miseries.
These two men are inherently different, yet they become closely bound by the feelings shared within the space of a few hours, and by the terrible aftershocks of that meeting.
He hates Charles, but he feels a deep connection to him.
Each was what the other had not chosen to be, the cast-off self, what he thought he hated but perhaps in reality loved.I stumbled across Patricia Highsmith in a quest to find female authors of noir fiction.
And then some.Guy is the poor sap Bruno lays his murder  plot out on.
Having learned that Guy is separated  from his wife, and that wife is carrying another man's child, Bruno decides she needs to die.
Bruno is just the person to do it, in exchange for Guy murdering Bruno's  old man.
Guy does not agree and finds it all quite disturbing, but then Bruno takes things into his own hands.A very detailed psychological study, where you can't  help but get sucked up into the plot.
A genius idea drowned in a soup of too many uninteresting characters. Most of the book could have been edited down to one taut, terrific short story.
This book is a psychological novel that gets deep under the skin of its two main characters.
The compulsive way this novel is written makes the reader feel like they too are trapped, just like the book’s main protagonist Guy Haines, in an unceasing nightmare.
As trains are driven along an irrevocably permanent track, we its readers, often squirming with anticipation, observe two increasingly desperate men reach their inevitable destinations.
As in The Talented Mr Ripley, Strangers on a Train has a strongly understated homo-erotic element lurking just underneath the story’s surface.
If you like exceedingly well-written, utterly compulsive and rather disturbing psychological novels/thrillers, then I can highly recommend this one.
I just found the character of Guy to be a wimpy victim (after a while you just become a volunteer) with Charles/Bruno to be a bumbling drunk who was repressing his real feelings about Guy.
The only authentic piece in this book really was Guy feeling horror and disgust of Bruno when this first comes up.
The rest of the book Highsmith alternates between these two in a third person POV.I honestly hated Bruno's sections the worst.
Highsmith doesn't pay much attention to locations so no place feels real besides the scene we get when Bruno stalks Miriam.
I’m not sure what I was expecting, perhaps a lot more suspense and a lot more thrills, but not the back-and-forth banter, the dragging on and on and on with the exceedingly weird, almost perverse, relationship between Guy and Bruno.
Wealthy alcoholic Bruno was the complete opposite, but had no redeeming qualities whatsoever as we read about (and read his thoughts) in his desire to commit the perfect murder (Guy’s estranged wife) while having Guy commit one (Bruno’s father), too.Overall, this book left me sort of flat, though it was interesting in the fact that Hitchcock was able to create one of his classic films out of this book.
Now, you see, if you ask me to write a review on this book, I'm going to write it in relative to Hitchcock's infamous Strangers On A Train.(Brain: No one's askin' you, Pri!Me: ...Me: Shut up, Brain!)Leave it to Hitchcock to find such little gems, especially in their obscurity, while others deemed it to be "just a silly story".
When you look at Bruno and Guy, you really begin to appreciate how- for the lack of a better word- jumbled Highsmith's characters are.
Do you think Guy's affinity towards Bruno- even though, he knows Bruno is a sociopath- is out of "innocence"??
“My mistake was telling a stranger my private business.”After watching The Talented Mr. Ripley, I desperately wanted to read more from Patricia Highsmith. If all her novels were as psychological twisted as that movie, I was sure I had found my new favorite thriller-author. Sadly, twisted as  Strangers on the Train  is, the rest of this novel isn’t good enough to blow me away.Set in the 1950’s, this smoky noir thriller takes a long time to really take off. After the first meeting of architect Gu
is, the rest of this novel isn’t good enough to blow me away.Set in the 1950’s, this smoky noir thriller takes a long time to really take off.
After the first meeting of architect Guy Haines and mama’s boy Charlie Bruno, in which the vague murder-swap plan is made, we have to wait a long time before some fire gets into the story.
*shakes head in frustration* For the rest I found the plot itself and the ending are predictable, but I liked the interesting questions on the duality of good and evil: do each of us have a twin that is both our exact opposite and enemy?
I was mesmerized by this creepy, suspenseful story of a sociopath (Bruno) and how he gets a fellow train passenger (Guy) to swap murders with him, i.e., each will kill a person the other would like out of his life, so there will be no apparent motive for the murders.After reading this novel, I watched the Hitchcock movie based on it.
I don't want to introduce any spoilers, so I'll just say that in the book, I didn't find what Guy did credible.
The movie was more believable in this respect, and for me it had a more satisfactory ending.
Love the noir vibe to this, but the story dragged on for a bit too long.
