https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2275129.Little_Red_Riding_Hood
This was a great book. Again what a great classic. This particular book was different from others u read because the text was kind of like comic book style which was very different from what I was used to. Same story, just a different style.
I picked this up from a second hand store and thought that it would be good to have a copy on my bookshelf. A classic example of traditional literature which has lasted the ages and will continue to be told to children for many generations to come.  This edition is well illustrated.
Childhood favourites.
Little Red Riding Hood is a classic example of traditional literature.
The story starts off with a little girl wearing a red cape on her way to her grandmothers house to give her a basket of cookies.
I will try not to give it away for the suspense of the story to a new reader can be something they will always remember.This is a perfect example of traditional literature.
It has the stock character of Little Red Riding Hood.
It also has the trickster who is the Wolf as he tries to trick Little Red into believing that he himself is the Grandmother.
Her mum sends her off to go and see her grandmother stressing the fact that she must not talk to strangers or go in the woods to pick flowers.
The wolf gets to the grandmother’s house before her and displays her on the bed.
On getting to her grandmother, she notices that she is acting strangely and on moving closer to the bed, the wolf captures her.
I will like to recommend this book to KS1 children.
Children can write their own version of the story or change the middle and the ending.
It is an exciting, enjoyable story for young students.
I would also bring up a more mature moral of the story for older students, such as "don't talk to strangers" and "don't go anywhere without an adult." These themes could be used for first or second graders.
A follow up activity to go along with this book could each child naming a moral of this story in a literature circle and then voicing what each group thought out loud to the whole class.
This activity could help with a child's speaking skills, critical thinking skills, and skills on group work.
This is the classic tale of a little girl in a red cloak making her way through the woods to grandmothers house, and encounters a wolf along the way. I would use this book to spur conversation about traditional literature and folk tales, and what makes it classified as traditional lit. I would have students write as if they were little red riding hood and what their reactions would be to the events in the story.
A tale that is well known and has been taken and twisted many times in modern literature. This book provides the most traditional version of the tale where a young girl has some trouble with a big bad wolf. A great time to read this book would be when something is scary for children in class or to bring up the topic of fear.
Not sure if this is the right edition, but I read this children’s classic a few times in childhood. Reckon the last time would’ve been when I was eight or nine, circa 1983-4.A must for all youngsters!
Con ilustraciones tan tradicionales como la propia historia, este libro utiliza un lenguaje simplificado para hacerlo asequible a los jóvenes lectores. Por lo demás, esta versión del cuento presenta la novedad de que el padre de Caperucita es también el leñador, así que todo queda en familia.
i read this book when i was like about 4 years old my mom used to rea fairy tales like to me before i went ot bed and i used to think it was fascinating and i still do think so.........
I read this book a long time ago!!
Excellent childhood classic
Grandma is ill so take her some wine - great lesson for life ;)
Gambar dan suaranya ok, apalagi versi dari mebook bisa ganti suara..ceritanya yg chapter versi nenek sakit dan dikirimkan wine...diterjemahkan saja sebagai sirup anggur ke krucil..
A very enjoyable story about an adorable girl and a bad wolf. I am not sure why the author choose the colour red for the girl's cape but it was a striking feature.
Normal fairy-tale with nice, creative pictures from the illustrator!!!
I had this story read to me as a child and read all the Ladybird books to my children when they were young and am now sharing them with the children in schools.
A fairytale favourite, part of my ladybird book collection as a child.
Little red riding hood is very advetures
Good romance book . It also shows how wildlife can get a long with other people.
