https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/178160.The_Strange_Message_in_the_Parchment
Nancy Drew takes on a case to solve the mystery of a series of pictures painted on parchment.The Nancy Drew books were my favorites as a kid, and rereading them as an adult has been fun. This wasn't one of the best stories, but it's still worth reading if you like Nancy Drew.
I have read commentary in regard to the shifting of Nancy from being a confident, strong young woman in the earliest stories, to a more easily preyed upon and less assured individual by the 1980s.
In earlier books we see Nancy on the cover snooping around and on her guard.
The cover reflects neither strength nor confidence in Nancy.
This particular author also puts the location of the quotation from the bible at the bottom of the page.
While other Nancy Drew stories from this period have weak plots, this was particular story was my least liked.
Nancy Drew returns in another thrilling addition to this mystery book series.
Nancy is on a yet another adventure and this time its her former schoolmate, Junie Flockhart who has brought the mystery for her to solve in "The Strange Message in the Parchment". :)Junie's father, who also owns a parchment making factory and lives on Triple Creek Farm, has bought a parchment with four scenes painted on it. Junie tells her that soon after buying the parchment, her father got a mysterious call where  "a man who didn't give his name said the picture had a message. Anyone who coul
Nancy is on a yet another adventure and this time its her former schoolmate, Junie Flockhart who has brought the mystery for her to solve in "The Strange Message in the Parchment".
:)This book is better in terms of plot planning, execution and keeping the suspense till the end as compared to the previous Nancy Drew book that I read "The Secret of the Forgotten City".I loved the character of Eezy who quotes the bible and plays the harp beautifully.
All this could have been said only once rather than bringing it up 2-3 times in the book.All in all, I really enjoyed the book and recommend all to read it.
This is another of the poorly written later Nancy Drew books written by someone writing anonymously for the publisher, whose goal was to crank out as many money-makers as possible as quickly as possible. It broke from the pattern of Nancy Drew stories by including a shepherd who quoted from the Bible, which would make the book questionable for inclusion in a public school library.
Searching for some stolen parchment paintings lead Nancy to a mystery
Another exciting adventure in this long-running, classic series. It was surprising to see all the Bible quotations.
However, I find these books enjoyable for what they are and consider them an effective way to unwind at the end of the day.This particular mystery was overall an enjoyable read, like all others.
Obviously, foreign language was not going to create a major obstacle in a Nancy Drew story, but the way that the obstacle was handled also seemed rushed and thus very hard to believe.Despite these details, overall my reading experience was still enjoyable and fast.
You know that at the end everything is going to be all right in a Nancy Drew book, and that is part of the pleasure of reading these light stories.
Ok, but not one of the better stories of the series.
The story lines aren't as crazy as some stories but some things don't quite make sense.
Why steal the boy when Rocco had already stolen the money from his mother?
Why keep the parchment when it might have some clue to what actually happened to the boy?
It was just done to make clues for Nancy to follow.
The stolen sheepskin jacket doesn't make much sense either.
How often do people just walk into someone's house in daylight and steal a coat instead of money or something.
I just didn't like the way the story flowed.
This book I do remember reading when younger. I liked this one. The mystery did seem to solve itself fairly quickly, but that's ok. A little unbelievable that Janie's boyfriend couldn't speak the correct Italian dialect, but after a few hours study he suddenly had it down.
Nancy Drew and the Mystery of the Heavy-Handed Messages about Socialism and Immigrants: Also Featuring Random Bible Quotes and Anti-Vegetarianism.
Nancy Drew is certainly a very amazing amateur detective! This book, filled with its great twists, is jam packed with adventure, danger, and my ultimate favorite...MYSTERY!
I loved the mystery!
I've always enjoyed Nancy Drew stories (and I started reading them when I was really young) but this one just felt preachy to me. I feel sorry for animals that are slaughtered for specific uses but that doesn't mean I want to read 180 pages about how terrible it is for them
The Strange Message in the Parchment  is a children's story by Carolyn Keene (pseudonym) and the 54th book in the  Nancy Drew  series. After a friend's father receives a mysterious phone call, Nancy Drew is invited to Triple Creek Farm to try to find a hidden message in a parchment painting. But when the painting is stolen Nancy becomes involved in tracking a kidnapper and extortionist. I’ve always been a voracious reader. So, as a child, one of my favorite things about summer was the frequent
After a friend's father receives a mysterious phone call, Nancy Drew is invited to Triple Creek Farm to try to find a hidden message in a parchment painting.
And as I would read her most current adventure, I would imagine myself following in her footsteps … taking charge and plunging ahead, getting into mischief, chasing down culprits and solving the mystery.
Even though I haven’t re-read any of these books since I was a child, I still think that Nancy is a great character—her courage, confidence and fierce independence, makes her an iconic source of inspiration for young girls everywhere.
A must-read children's book, 
is another wonderful Nancy Drew mystery.
I was happy to search the catalog for this publication year and find a Nancy Drew book in our collection - The Strange Message in the Parchment by Carolyn Keene.
I was a bit disappointed in this one.The story takes place at the sheep farm of one of Nancy's friends, June.
June's family has a parchment that has a mystery behind it that Nancy is invited to solve.
It's plot is much more linear than other Nancy Drew Mysteries I've read.
Nancy got the bad guys in the end, of course, but I will not be returning to read this book again.
I'm not sure what to make of this Nancy Drew title.
Of course, Bess is appalled at the idea even though she loves her lamb chops!Nancy meets a man who is always quoting scripture which is another departure from the norm.
Of course, in many of the books Nancy is often described going to church before starting her detective work on Sundays, but there were actual footnotes with chapter and verse in this book.
The gang doesn't show up until the end of the book, so it was a little weird reading the descriptions of Bess and George when the book was almost over.Not your typical Nancy Drew book but worth a read.
Nancy Drew just always knows how to solve a mystery, and a tough one at that.
Like all the Nancy Drew series, #54 has just the right amount of suspense that just wants the reader to read more and more to figure out the case.
Not only suspense, but I love how Nancy and her friends work together to solve the mystery, also know as perfect teamwork.
I've always enjoyed mystery, especially the Nancy Drew series.
And if you're also a mystery hog, or if you're a fan of Nancy Drew, then I highly recommend this good read.
For taking place in the United States, when these stories have taken place all over the world, this was among the most different and deep of the Nancy Drew mysteries I've read.
While it still held that vintage aura and continued its familiar themes, Nancy is the most on her own in this story and some of the elements were different than previous episodes.
For one thing, a bad guy rarely turns into a good guy in these stories, biblical verses are quoted (and footnoted!), there is actual child abuse (though it is discussed rather than dealt with directly, and Nancy actually considers the idea of being a vegetarian!
One of my ultimate favorites! Top five of the Nancy Drew series, for sure. Reading this novel made me think, reflect, strain, and ultimately build my own inquisitive skill set. Twenty years after reading this particular book ("Message in the Parchment") I find it haunting me in my every day life. It's central plot is haunting and its confluence with Nancy's everyday life is unforgettable. I own all 56 ND's in first edition and rewritten sets. This is my favorite. Read it. Devour it. Adore the engulfing narrative.

I remember the first time I read Nancy Drew. It blew my mind that there were girls presented with a brain. Most of the stuff I'd read up to that time, was that girls were sugar and spice - fluffy. No brains. To also learn about George who is a tomboy was a nice validation. Carolyn Keene wrote just for me! That is how I felt. When I did more research, I was shocked to find out, Ms. Keene was actually a man ... writing under Frank Dixon. I also loved the Hardy Boys. No wonder I loved these series.
Hmmm...Nancy ready to give up a mystery because the mystery object was stolen?! Worried about her ability to reproduce a stolen painting?! Too expensive to fly to Rome to check out a clue?! What is wrong with Nancy in this mystery? First, and probably last, time I read this one. It's in that group of 5-10 that I consider the worst of the original 56 hardcovers and 119 Digests that compose the Nancy Drew Mystery Stories so I didn't expect much. I'm interested to see what the next two which I've never read, are like.
Travel cocktease. They talk about going to Italy but this is the first time that capricious travel has been TOO EXPENSIVE for Drew 'n' Company.One of the character is a shepherd named Ezekiel and he quotes scripture.Nancy tries to find the origin of a mysterious child and comes across a phony union extortion scheme.Nobody loses consciousness but Nancy gets attacked by a flock of mechanical birds and attacked by a ram.
This was one of my least favorite Nancy Drew's. The person writing it was obviously a vegatairian which just got on my nerves because the book is set on a Sheep farm and theres all this "Aww you wouldn't kill a cute little lamb like that would you?" stuff in book. I really love animals but it was still grating. There were a few other minor things about the book that were anoying but that was the main one.
Ok.... Nancy could have used some tact and discretion before openly trespassing on somebody's property. That was disappointing. Also the author could have used some tact when describing how the lambs were slaughtered. ugh. :-( I did enjoy the Biblical references every so often though. This was another good book written slightly different.
I felt like Nancy was a bit less competent in this book than she usually is which was annoying. I also thought all of the sheep farm / slaughterhouse stuff was really weird, overdone, and not enjoyable to read about. All of Eezy's bible quotes seemed out of place too. Overall this was just a weird installment in the series.
Oh, Nancy Drew, such a beloved figure of my childhood. Although the books do not stand up well to adult scrutiny (all-too-convenient plot "twists", flat too-perfect characters, and many actions on the part of our heroes that most people would consider extremely illegal), Nancy Drew is still a fun read for a bit of nostalgia.
Nancy's friend Junie has a parchment that her father bought from a neighbor. It seems to have been created by the same artist as another couple of paintings, all seeming to have some sort of message. Nancy needs to solve this message as well as the mystery of what is going on with her neighbor. The man is Italian and has a mysteriously downtrodden nephew.
This book is a thriller!!,It started out when a somebody call Nancy's friend Father,This is what he said: "there is a strange message in the Parchment, and can right an old wrong"!, hope you enjoy reading this book!
