https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/12425532-of-poseidon
It's official. Mermaids are the new "angels" of the Paranormal Romance genre. The is the second mermaid book I've read and I'm less than impressed with these sea creatures. Incidentally, Of Poseidon happens to be worse for me than  Lies Beneath .Of Poseidon tells the story of Emma, a girl who possesses a few Syrena (mermaid) traits, and Galen, a Syrena prince, who attempts to unravel the secrets of Emma. It's discovered that she has the Gift of Poseidon (think Dr. Dolittle at the aquarium) and t
.Of Poseidon tells the story of Emma, a girl who possesses a few Syrena (mermaid) traits, and Galen, a Syrena prince, who attempts to unravel the secrets of Emma.
You know what happens next: they fall deeply in love.I was really looking forward to starting this book for two reasons: 1) The cover is stunning and 2) The blurb mentioned it was a mermaid tale told by both Emma and Galen's PoV.
I usually like books that feature duel point of views, but in this case I didn't because it switched back and forth from 1st person (Emma) to 3rd person (Galen).
I don’t read many books that I would rate 1 star these days. I seem to have mastered my preferences and hit a stride of excellent books – or at least mostly readable books.Admittedly I only made it fifty-six pages into this book before I threw my hands up in disgust and tossed a pillow at the wall – so I suggest you take that into account when deciding whether to buy this book.Why did I stop reading?First reason:The death of a token characterWe didn’t know her long enough, but I’m pretty sure sh
I seem to have mas­tered my pref­er­ences and hit a stride of excel­lent books – or at least mostly read­able books.Admit­tedly I only made it fifty-six pages into this book before I threw my hands up in dis­gust and tossed a pil­low at the wall – so I sug­gest you take that into account when decid­ing whether to buy this book.Why did I stop reading?First rea­son:The death of a token characterWe didn’t know her long enough, but I’m pretty sure she could play base.Right off a POC char­ac­ter is killed and whilst that would be annoy­ing in its own right, since killing off POC char­ac­ters is a frus­trat­ing cliche in books, TV shows and films, this was even more annoy­ing.
Also, I realized that my writing this review will make me come off as some cruel hater bitch, as there are almost no negative reviews of this book on GR, and none of them seem to be articulated.But these days have been all about the debate on women's reproduction rights (which shouldn't even BE a subject to debate) and Russia still threatening to outlaw the word "gay", and I realized that sometimes silence is not the way out.Of Poseidon is the story of Galen, a prince of the house of Triton, who acts as an ambassador of sorts between Syrena and humans.
but it doesn't because after Toraf changes strategy and makes Rayna jealous, it is revealed that she does love him and wants to be with him, and that she was, in fact, playing hard to get.*bangs head on desk*Okay....
THIS BOOK WAS SO GREAT!
There ARE some darker moments, and they perfectly added intensity to the plot, but it never got bogged down - it remained a good time!2) The mythology: It's fascinating!
Sometimes mythologies can be too complex, too boring, and can drag a book down..
it brought this book up!
I was genuinely interested to learn all about it!3) The characters: We have such a fun cast here!
I really enjoyed all of the characters and grew to love them all in a different way.I really super duper recommend that you pick this up!
However, I cannot, in good conscience, let these things pass me by so if you are reading this, keep in mind that the following are my opinions and ones you may not necessarily agree with but nevertheless, they are opinions I have a right to express.Of Poseidon promises a lighthearted story dabbling in the mythology of mermaids and some faint Greek myths that, superficially, has all the elements of an entertaining YA novel.
Emma's best friend, Chloe, is black and she (view spoiler)[happens to be eaten by a shark (hide spoiler)].
This review is also available over at my blog.______________________I made it about 130-something pages before I decided that I could not stand to suffer through this book anymore.What bothered me right off the bat was the writing style.
Why can't Galen's chapters be first person or Emma's be third?
Jokingly, of course, because Chloe at the time was "embarrassing" Emma in front of the oh-so-hot Galen.
She's a serial-blusher (seriously, in 100 pages she managed to blush about 352 billion times) and the epitome of a Mary Sue. She can never stand up for herself, always needing Galen to save her and give her "tingles".Oh God, I haven't even started yet.
Sounds good, but I kind of wish (view spoiler)[the folks who write the synopsis for these books wouldn't broadcast the fact that there's going to be one of those "inexplicably attracted to" romances, where people are drawn to each other...without knowing why....because it makes me kind of hesitant to pick this up. I'm getting a wee bit tired of paranormal romances where girls are attracted to guys for no reason other than the fact that they're "hot." (hide spoiler)]
I haven't had the best of luck with mermaid books in the past, though I haven't read very many of them.
We get Emma's chapters in first person, and Galen's in third.
We've got Emma; I could have easily liked her, she's feisty and funny, but besides letting herself get treated like a child by Galen, her personality is very inconsistent.
Galen takes Emma to one particular spot by which I was simply mesmerized.
I'm certainly interested in reading the sequel which I think may be more to my liking with, I assume, a more settled relationship and further plot advancements.
SO GOOD. Galen....mmmmmmm.
We get everything in the first pages, laughter, hotness (=Galen), cuteness(=Emma) and heartbreaking tears!
Belongs to the hall-of-fame of awesomeness heroines!Emma was incredibly cute but at the same time I loved loved loved her snarky retorts.
In Of Poseidon, Emma has to discover that there is something else in the world, something that was hidden until now and that fairy tales with mermaids (please Galen, excuse this word!) are true!
This initial spark he felt when he meet Emma made him follow her to her school to figure out the mystery behind Emma.I adore and love Galen insanely!
This book was a bit ridiculous, unrealistic, and a bit too convenient at times, and I loved every second of it.
Unlike our typical idea of mermaids, Syrena have smooth gray tails like a shark.
And going on land is strictly prohibited by all but the select few with special permission.
They all seemed to have this fiery temper, which apparently is a Syrena trait, and after awhile I started to find it entertaining.
Especially when Emma develops an explosive temper as well.
Toraf was my favorite character in the book.
If you're looking for a cute, if predictable, mermaid book, give Of Poseidon a shot.
I decided to go on amazon to read the first few pages and boi.
The writing is so light and easy and kinda fun that i decided to buy the full ass physical copy and here I am.I LOVED THIS.
and the fact that I actually liked Emma was a shocker.
2.Galentbh I felt like there's a random personality switch for him on the first half of the book and the second half.
The first half was quiet and cold and the second was fun and cute.
a cute little fish boy.
tbh idk man i just loved this book.
As the two fight a growing attraction, they must work together to uncover the mystery of Emma’s heritage, because while Galen cannot have Emma for his own, her rather singular gifts may just be the key to saving his kingdom.My Thoughts:Though it may seem strange calling a book which opens with the bloody death of a girl 'light', it’s precisely what Of Poseidon is.
***Update July 22, 2013*** Upon reading Mythology by Edith Hamilton for my summer reading assignment, this specific quote has come to my attention: "Triton was the trumpeter of the sea. His trumpet was a great shell. He was the son of Poseidon and Amphitrite." (38) Really, Anna Banks? Really? You couldn't even get the basic facts down? (For those who haven't read this, she claimed that Triton and Poseidon are brothers. Why? That's beyond me.) Now I for sure won't be reading the next book.______
Of Poseidon didn't even execute the paranormal aspects well, which is why it was so easy to notice that it was merely a sexist, angsty-romance book disguised as a fantasy about mermaids Syrena.
According to this book, it’s a bad thing that Reyna wanted to choose her husband by herself, not forced to marry a man she didn't want.
You know it’s a horrible book when you find yourself questioning why you bothered to read a book, which is what happened to me with Of Poseidon.
Not if you actually want to read an intriguing story on the nature of Syrena, because that is obviously too much to ask.
🤩This is the "tale" of Emma, a high school senior, who learns that she is half Syrena (it's a mermaid/merman, but don't say that to their face) after meeting Galen, a gorgeous Syrena prince, who is allowed to visit land in order to study humans.
He realized upon meeting her over the summer, after seeing her lavender eyes and feeling "the pull", that she was Syrena, and he needed to investigate further.Things don't go smoothly between them at first.
She plays his mom and does all the necessary human things for him, including purchasing his house and car, enrolling him in school, etc.The second book picks up where the cliffhanger ending from the first book leaves off.
*4.25*Super cute and fun!I loved the main characters, their relationship was addicting to read about and I loved how they interacted! The characters were also very funny and had very distinct personalities.The side characters were also great and definitely added so much to the book.I was a little confused about the world, but I think I figured everything out by the end. The plot is also pretty crazy with some plot twists thrown in there!This book is just so enjoyable and I can't wait to read the next one!This is also the PERFECT beach read :D
Emma meets Galen, Syrena prince, by tripping and smashing her face into his chest.
I encourage girls not to think of themselves this way, even as a joke.Galen, of course, is drawn to her from first meeting, purportedly because his mermaid (sorry, Syrena) senses are tingling.
Among his other charming qualities, he also bosses her around constantly and takes advantage of her memory loss to convince her to accompany him somewhere.I would also like to point out that Emma completely forgets about Chloe's death and that she's supposed to be sad within a day of Galen's showing up at her school.
Go read ;) The Writing:I was a bit confused and put-off by the dual POV because Emma's side is told in first person while Galen's is told in third person.
I wish that Banks explored more of the Syrena world, but I guess this book was more about Emma discovering her gift.
Sometimes I felt that this book focused too much on the romance and less on developing characters and an actual plot/storyline.
But besides that, I do like Emma.
She gets a bit on my nerves sometimes, but overall I like the girl.
I really like Galen.
He had this aura of strength and loyalty, that I just fell for, and I knew that he end Emma were perfect for each other right from the start.Their love towards each other was a little to "classy" for me.
But at the same time, I really liked their love, not only because I like "the classy"-sorta-thing a little too, but because of their reactions and thoughts, which made their love so real and so much more than just a teenage love.I guessed quite early in the book what was going to happen, and who this 'stalker' was.
After reading Of Poseidon, I think I now realize why this is: An underwater story is hard to do, for a number of reasons:1.
Female Association: Call them what you like, but if they have a human upper body, a fin for a lower body, and live under the sea, they are merpeople, and referring to them as Syrena is not going to change that fact.
But none of this even matters, anyway, because Emma's mom is conveniently never home.I apologize for the long-winded rant, I didn't think that's where this review was headed when I started it, but I should have had an idea since I wrote six pages of notes while reading Of Poseidon and the majority of my bullet points end in these characters: !?!?!?!?!?!??!!?!?!?
However, I can ensure you that this book is not a disappointment, but rather a surprise.Our heroine, Emma, grows up thinking she is just another ordinary girl, except with a pair of violet eyes.
After a blood-filled accident and with the help of Galen, Emma finally starts seeing the truth, about herself and her family.The book starts off really well.
I liked Emma okay.
Then it comes to Galen, whom I loved very much.
This makes Galen a very real character.Of Poseidon is an entertaining and fast-paced story filled with humor and surprises.
But Prince Galen isn't ready for this twenty first century thinking girl, and Emma’s not about to take orders from this prince of the sea.Galen is an awesome guy, even if he is behind the times with Emma and her world above the sea.
Anna Banks had my heart swooning for Galen, and wishing for my own Prince Galen.There’s also another romance going on with Rayna, who is Galen's sister, and Toraf.
Although there's no way you can not help but to fall in love with Toraf, Toraf takes a lickin’ and keeps on going, determined to win Rayna's heartOf Poseidon is a beautiful romance of Galen’s sacrifice for his love for Emma with a fantastic adventure with merfolk of the sea.
Galen happens to be a royal Syrena (or merman) from the House of Triton, and he believes that Emma is a Syrena with her characteristic violet eyes and gift of Poseidon, where she can talk to sea creatures.In preparation of this review, I have earmarked 16 pages throughout the book.What I enjoyed about Of Poseidon- The mermaid mythology.
The flow of the book was somewhat interrupted and sometimes when you are reading about one person, the plot jumps when it goes into the next person’s perspective.- Emma’s constant temper tantrums.
Omg this was super cute and hilarious. Full RTC
If you’re up for a good plot idea but odd and unflattering execution that manages to insult the female race with it’s promotion of patriarchalism, then this is your book. If, like me, all you’ve ever asked for is a mildly engaging plot, simple (I’m not asking for anyone to spew the dictionary) but fluid and concise writing with a sprinkling of tastefully used metaphors, a good grasp on tense and POV, characterisation that is either relatable or satirical and a little bit of common sense then t
If, like me, all you’ve ever asked for is a mildly engaging plot, simple (I’m not asking for anyone to spew the dictionary) but fluid and concise writing with a sprinkling of tastefully used metaphors, a good grasp on tense and POV, characterisation that is either relatable or satirical and a little bit of common sense then turn away and don’t look back.
Well let me give you a clue: It dips my favourite tense into a pot of blood and takes it out into the middle of the bloody ocean, drops it in the sea and says “Good luck with life, but you’re most probably, in fact definitely, am going to become a scrumptious meal for the killer sharks who peruse this part of the sea”.
Wow, it's been a very long time since I finished a book in that record-of-a-time.I really enjoyed this book, awesome debut to the series and the way it ended; kinda of a i-knew-it moment, but I couldn't put my hands on it before,, I like how Anna Banks left to be unraveled until the very last pages.The Mythology in the story is awesome, I'm obsessed with all things Poseidon so ...
*cheers*I loved how easy it was to get into this book, how simple the story started off and very interesting to keep reading yet not so brainy.
lei precisa che non vuole accoppiarsi e il riassunto finale è "sei una donna, che altro vorresti fare?" eppure il fratello ha la sua stessa età ma nessuno gli dice che si deve accoppiare eh no lui deve aspettare la mary sue!Tra l'altro sono i maschi che "scelgono" la femmina dopo aver passato del tempo con ognuna di loro ??????
From the title, I was thinking something along the lines of the Percy Jackson Poseidon and I didn’t get that at all.
But, I still enjoyed myself plenty.So, what’s this book about you ask??
At the core, it’s about Emma.
Emma who just lost her best friend.
Emma who has a bad temper.
Emma who is clumsy.
Emma who just bumped into Galen.
Emma who has a secret, she doesn’t know about herself.Emma can communicate with fish, Galen witnessed that firsthand, but he needs to know if she is really a Syrena.
Galen is such a corny, yet sexy beast!
Jajaja tan estúpido sin embargo tan entretenido.
I knew at that moment that I wanted to read her book.
The tension between these two characters is palpable and had me saying out loud, “Just kiss her already!” I even texted my friend that while I was reading because I knew she was ahead of me in the story.
I’ve made a number of predictions about the ending and what’s going to happen next, so hopefully I’ll be lucky and get to read an ARC.If you’re looking for a light, engrossing book to read this summer, I highly recommend picking up Of Poseidon by Anna Banks.
