https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1027978.Fun_with_a_Pencil
There's a great deal to appreciate in this (or any) Loomis book, however.His approach to drawing the head is easily grasped and fun, and he gives the reader scads of angles and ideas for creating variety.
Loads of content on creating the figure is provided, also, from structure, to point of gravity, to in-action.
I found the bit on foreshortening the figure quite fascinating, but I rarely use the technique he outlines, as it's a bit tedious!Really, everything you're likely to draw (except nature--apart from the human animal, of course) is covered here--furniture, entire rooms (another maddening but technically precise technique), shadows (excellent!), folds in clothing...
It's a true helpful guide for the beginners, who have interest in illustration. The way of showing the basic techniques is so easy indeed.And yeah, making lines & images on paper with a pencil is always fun to me. :)
He's a master illustrator but he's racist, propagates stereotypes and if you actually did the lessons in this book, you'll realize that it's way too hard for beginners!
Reading this book was an excellent first step into understanding how cartoons can be created by breaking them down into simple forms and exaggerating their various proportions.
This book was also my first look at the Loomis method of constructing the head, which I will be learning more about as I read his other books.
My main criticism is that this book is labelled as a book for beginners, however the content gets increasingly more difficult towards the end of the book when Loomis dives into complicated perspective and shadow construction drawings with little explanation to aid in understanding them.

racist crap...well, racist anyway. This one includes lots of fun instructions on how to draw stereotyped forms of all sorts...from the librarian with glasses on the nose to the African-American man with lips the size of Australia. Yes, this book was written in the early 60s, I think. If that's enough excuse for you then enjoy the read...it's not for intermediate or advanced artists.
It's fun to "interact" with pencil. But still it's not as easy as it is in the book. I've tried, hard enough. But still, it's the practice you need, not the theory. However, i recommend this book for those who doesn't have time for a drawing class. But try as the book say. Don't just stare at the book. it won't help you out.
Very good book for learners.
~3.5 stars A pretty good book with some fun lessons rooted in simple geometry and clear instructions.
I'd say back this up with other books on the fundamentals (including perhaps Loomis' other books on figure drawing), since formulaic lessons can become a crutch, but this book is still rooted in a lot of those basics, so you won't be lead astray.It's unfortunately got some racist caricatures that don't at all age well, with a couple bits that might be sexist by today's standards, but maybe I shouldn't be that surprised, since this book is nearly 80 years old, and some of the 20th century's more brutal, trying lessons hadn't been learned yet (WW2 and its horrors were only just getting started, and the Civil Rights movement was still 15 years off) I call these things when I see them, but I wouldn't throw the baby out with the bathwater with these older texts.It's a quick book too, especially if you're just doing an initial read through.
Fun with a Pencil is a really awesome introductory drawing book for people who have little to no experience with figure drawing or basic techniques.
Anybody could pick up this book and get a great grasp for how to start drawing and where to progress from there.
Andrew Loomis's lessons are classic and simple to follow and provide enough structure to even encourage those people who don't think they can draw at all.
That being said anything Andrew Loomis does is classic and provides a pretty solid foundation for those who don't know where to start.
Fantastialy authentic, endlessly usefulAndrew Loomis was one of the biggest influences in commercial art. His guidance will never be missed as long as you can find his books. This one is fun, but loaded with practical information on how to upgrade your feeble attempts to draw what want to illustrate your ideas. Andrew seems to genuinely want you to become proficient and maybe even even excellent as an artist if you catch the drawing bug. And you just might.
best artbook volgens munchy
In my opinion, the book "Fun With A Pencil" is probably the perfect resource for people who are interested and wants to learn how to draw. It contains step by step photos on every chapter and makes it easy to follow the steps. It also contains many tips and techniques which I find useful as an artist.
While the principles seem simple, they are actually very powerful tools to learn how to correctly draw from life. I've always struggled with "seeing" the world as shapes and the examples were good enough to let me draw accurate representations of objects and people I see in my daily life. Now the struggle comes to draw from imagination.
Great introduction to cartooning and drawing in general. All Loomis assumes is the person can pick up a pencil and draw a few shapes, but he quickly builds on basic shapes to constructing frameworks and figures. I've drawn for a long time and still found his methods useful and helpful. Loomis wrote in the 30s/40s so the books can be difficult to find but many libraries carry them.
I read this one a long time ago. I recommend it to anyone who wants to learn to draw a little bit better just for the fun of it (even if you "can't draw at all"). Or to children and teenagers who want to improve and become pros. Its indeed very fun to read and very fun to do the exercises (lots of funny cartoons!)
I was 16 when a fellow artist recommended this book for me. Andrew approach is very interesting and will keep you following up the steps and continuously learning. As we had no art schools or classes around, Andrew books were the ultimate learning resource. I highly recommend all his books not just this one.
Andrew Loomis's Fun with a Pencil is a wonderful about drawing. Starting from the premise that anyone can draw, Loomis draws what becomes circles, circles in circles, and ultimately human shapes and figures. The twist? It's not only a masterful course on drawing (cartoons) but also a course on drawing philosophy. Read it and all the books signed Loomis.
http://illustrationage.files.wordpres...Not all the photos in here are good, upon looking at it, but mostly. A lot of focus on the cartoon type, but still might be helpful.
Don't think the whole book is published here!I only got a couple of pages with my purchase, basically an introduction. Problem with the programming ... book freezes up. Crappy! Not happy.
October 9, 2013 @ page 14--> Great book! Happy to own an Andrew Loomis how-to book!--> Will come back to this book once I find my confidence in drawing again, so that I can perform each and everyone of the drawing exercise with my own originality rather than copying his works.
I keep giggling all the time I read this book. Marvellous!! I love all the illustrations. It feels like there is someone actually taking to me and teaching me how to draw. And it is just so easy following all the steps and I always get amazed of what I have drawn. An awesome book. :'D
This book is an excellent introduction to illustrating comic characters. In this book you will find the original models for the comic strips we know and love, and many marvel and DC characters known today. If you want to learn to draw american style comics, not manga, this is the book for you.
Excellent for beginners! A must have!
This is the book of my dayIts a very interesting book wich let you know how to draw by the shapes and mostly the circle It show the basics you need Read it and start drawing your own painting
Great tips for successful drawing skills
Great book on hw to draw cartoon charactersstep by step and really made it easy
Loved this book in High School! Such a fun way to learn to draw. I am so excited for the 2013 reprint so I can finally share this with my children!!!
Fantastic art instructional book for beginners. These techniques for drawing the human form are the same ones used by most artists today.
Love his character Drawing so fun and inspiring.
