https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/12855.Great_Short_Works_of_Fyodor_Dostoevsky
Notes from the Underground: Not an easy read, but certainly a worthwhile one.
4 stars(March 13, 2009) [Note: Due to a group read, I read this one out of chronological order.]The Double: While in the beginning it seems to be funny and farcical, it quickly turns confusing and sad.
4 stars (Sept 16, 2012)White Nights: Probably due to a 'hangover' caused by the previous story, this one had me thinking at first that the female character might not be real.
3 stars (Sept 20, 2012)A Disgraceful Affair: Similar to "The Double" in that the character feels paranoia, though his is due to excessive drink and not mental illness.
I'll just cite a quote to display the piercing quality of Dostoevsky's philosophical exploration:"Why, we don't even know where this 'real life' lives nowadays, what it really is, and what it's called.
Leave us alone without books and we'll get confused and lose our way at once--we won't know what to join, what to hold on to, what to love or what to hate, what to respect or what to despise.
Soon we'll conceive of a way to be born from ideas..."--the underground man in "Notes from Underground" (we could easily substitute "entertainment" for "books" in our day and age)
this is the best short story compilation of dostoyevsky's work i've ever found. it features stories i've never seen published in other editions, including one of his little known masterpieces: 'the dream of a ridiculous man.' the latter story could indeed forever change how you view humanity, or affirm it, and possibly change our life. stories include:the doublewhite nightsa disgraceful affairnotes from the undergroundthe gamblerthe eternal husbanda gentle creaturethe dream of a ridiculous man
I dream of ridiculous men
Not all of Dostoevsky's short works are created equal. A Gentle Creature earns five stars. Notes from the Underground garners only one.
In these stories the fat, old, hairy, smelly pawnbroker marries the tragic teenage Russian scrub girl to release her from the sadistic bondage of her cruel aunt and uncle.
Of course the teenage girl, lets call her Irina Slombovina, doesn’t love the decrepit old scrivener, lets call him Issur Davidovitch, after he tries and tries again to make her love him.
Usually the ungrateful teen wretch meets with a tragic end – yup, she dies, a sad waste given that 200 years later Irina would be the toast of New York Fashion Week tearing up the catwalk modeling the latest Proenza Schoeler fall collection.
Fyodor Dostoyevsky does a rare thing here with these masterful stories, and that is to make the reader both despise and understand the unreliable, spiteful, manipulative protagonists of his world. The Underground Man dishes out everything he's been given, tenfold, to an undeserving prostitute, and still, the reader feels empathy for him. The narrator of A Gentle Creature is a controlling misogynist, but he is also a beautifully constructed, three-dimensional human being. Great Short Works is a wonderful, though disturbing read, and a wonderful introduction to one of the most philosophically complex authors of the nineteenth century.
You got it, Phil: here's my first review. Next comes my goodreads picture. I've re-opened the book to read the last couple stories.If you loved the one Dostoevsky novel you read in high school and never dove into another, then this collection might be a great way to back into his work. There's no excuse to miss out on Dostoevsky's unique and well-crafted worlds; get them in your life and share with your friends. These are the old-school translators, for those aware of the new efforts by Richard Pevear and Larissa Volokh.
The two main characters are an amoral single man who had an affair with a now deceased married woman, that resulted in a little girl, and the cuckolded widower who sought him out.
The most self-aware characters in the story, other than the tragic little girl, are a group of teens who easily see right through the two of them.The Gambler is a compelling study of a chronic gambler (which Dostoyevsky was).
She is very, very entertaining, and she exposes the randomness of anyone's success at roulette, not what the Gambler believes in at all.Notes From Underground is a very long essay on Dostoyevsky's personal philosophy concerning our inability to understand our true motives for the actions we take.
Author surprisingly grew on me despite my general dislike of dense 19th-century writing style.----Comments in <20 words for each story in book (also publication) order:1.
Notes from the Underground (1864) translated by David Magarshack - First part semi-incoherent philosophical existentialist diatribe by anti-social narrator with superiority complex; difficult read, reread, reread, reread… Second part better.5.
The Dream of a Ridiculous Man (1877) translated by David Magarshack - Hurray for dreams…?
Ending was just too preachy for me.----Order of personal preference:A Gentle Creature (1876)The Eternal Husband (1870)The Double (1846)A Disgraceful Affair (1862)The Gambler (1866)White Nights (1848)Notes from the Underground (1864)The Dream of a Ridiculous Man (1877)
During the summer of 1974 I endeavored to read everything by Dostoevsky that I could find in order to better understand my girlfriend, a great fan of his.
There wasn't much to do but read and write, visiting the bookstore during the lunch break and checking out other, used bookstores during my days off in search of volumes of material yet unread.
For instance, this collection contains The Gambler, a novella I'd already read elsewhere.
A more financially prudent reader would have gone to the library and headed for something like The Collected Works, but I've always preferred owning what I read, even when it entailed such redundancy.
I always have a sense of uneasiness when I read translations but it can't be helped.
I discovered that 'short fiction' is kind of relative with Dostoevsky – the page count is sufficient warning to anyone expecting a quick or simple read.
The two final stories in the collection break that trend and remain very interesting, but at least one of them has already been praised enough in other reviews.'White Nights' is easily the best love story I've ever read; 'A Disgraceful Affair' is a fantastic, funny deconstruction of socially awkward situations and hypocrisy; 'The Double' is somehow more than just a rehash of Gogol, and made me laugh more than I expected to.
just finished Underground. is it awful i found it tedious? — 11/13/2008 finished The Gambler over the weekend. interesting, but... it left something to be desired. the characters seemed flat at best, and overly dramatic at worst. that the dialog flipped back in forth among french, german, and english was fun -- but it would've been better had i understood the German (and therefore, the "insult" that makes such a pivotal point in the story. — 10/18/2009
The Double was interesting, but more like Kafka than like what I think of as Dostoyevskian. White Nights was kind of melodramatic. The Eternal Husband and A Gentle Creature were good, solid, Dostoyevski psychological stories. A Ridiculous Man seemed like something Tolstoi would write. Notes from Underground, The Gambler, and A Disgraceful Affair I skipped since I'd read them before (respectively: good but depressing, a featherweight comedy, and a very good story).
I didn't feel the desire to finish reading all of his stories. The style felt repetitive. I imagine that at some later point I will read the ones I skipped: The Eternal Husband, A Gentle Creature, and The Dream of a Ridiculous Man. That being said, my favorite story of his that I read was White Nights. A wonderful character and a beautifully narrated story.
Odd how certain authors click at one time of life and not another. "The Eternal Husband"! Could have, should have been written today. But of course this is a different world. Pritchett points out that for Dostoevsky psychology *was* the plot and subject, not just motivation or causality for the character's actions, as it is in our post-Freudian world.
Like all writings by Dostoevsky, I loved these! The book took a long time to get through, but only because I wanted to savor each story. I would have to say that White Nights was probably my favorite story, but I'm looking forward to reading each story again sometime. Thanks, Bob, for loaning me the book and being so patient while I finished it.
Many overlook Dostoevsky's great collection of short stories, but they miss out on more musings of one of the greatest literary minds to have lived. All that you love in The Idiot or Crime and Punishment is concentrated and condensed into these stories.
I'm a bit disappointed. I love Dostoievski's novels, but this collection of short stories was a drag to get through... I wonder if reading it in English had something to do with it, it really lacked all that Russian atmosphere that I love.
This collection is brilliant. I especially enjoyed The Gambler, The Dream of a Ridiculous Man & The Eternal Husband.
He's really good at short stuff too.
from my amazing college Dostoyevsky class
Sounds like a great way to begin (again?) with Dostoevsky.
"White Nights" "A Gentle Creature" "The Dream of a Ridiculous Man"
Haven't read this. Got this in Graduate School at the University of Pittsburgh, and it is badly acidified. Maybe someday I'll find another copy.
Full of great stories, I did not read them all before I lost the book.
Stories from the collection I've read:The DoubleWhite NightsA Disgraceful AffairNotes from the Underground
No exciting new translation or daring new critiques here, just a solid collection of some of the greatest short writing of all time. Affordable and well-chosen.
Only a bad translation of "The Double" flaws this collection.
*The Eternal Husband* abides.
