https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/77611.Murder_by_the_Book
The only people who know the contents of an unpublished novel (the author, the publisher's reader, the typist of the manuscript) have been murdered, the novel has apparently been destroyed, and Nero Wolfe is determined to discover why--despite the fact that neither Wolfe nor Archie has the slightest clue where to begin.This is one of interesting features of the novel: what do detectives do when they don't even know where to start?
How does a professional go blundering around, trying to shake something loose?
Nero Wolfe does not feel like offering one, so pissed off Cramer leaves.
Later on when a wealthy Illinois businessman hires the detective to find a murderer of his only daughter - it seems to be hit-and-run accident to the police - Nero Wolfe is the only person to see the connection between this case and Cramer's problem.
In the scenes his is present, the businessman really feels like a grieving father.
This is the first time we see Archie Goodwin has to leave his usual place of action - New York - and come California and I really like his description of the West Coast (hint: it was raining non-stop during his visit so he was not fond of the place much).

I love all the Nero Wolfe books I've ever read. Archie's voice is an amazing blend of smarts and charm. I admit that I guessed the murder wrong, even though I've read it before, but while I love the mystery aspect of Stout's books, it's Archie's voice and the character interactions that really make them shine.
A clerk in a law office writes a mysterious manuscript, and a few months later, his body is pulled from the East River.
There was slightly too much chin for my taste, but the forehead and eyes were all any father had a right to expect.(When Nero asks Archie if he has an engagement for the evening): “Yes. With a blond switchboard operator.
The title on the old cover looks like it came fresh off a typewriter, and a giant pencil tip in the background appears to have scrawled the subtitle: Nero, abetted by Archie and assorted girls, discovers what a certain novel had to do with multiple murder.
The police--and Nero Wolfe--only know two things: (1) a manuscript ostensibly written by Baird Archer was submitted to and rejected by a New York publisher, and (2) everyone who's ever read the manuscript is now dead.
Much of the charm relates to Archie's attempt to seduce (as in 'entice'--not in the sexual way, much to the relief of Wolfe's churchgoing client) a whole office full of women by sending them all orchids and inviting them, en masse, to the old brownstone for a genuine gourmet meal (courtesy of Fritz Brenner), unlimited alcoholic beverages, and a tour of the orchid rooms, which is maybe not the best combination ever.
Archie definitely has his hands full.This is also one of the few Nero Wolfe books to boast a cross-country trip.
It's sharp, it's got the usual moments of humor, it's got great Wolfe-Archie interplay (and for the Archie/Saul shipper in me, there's a terrific moment when Archie explains that Saul would totally be the best US President ever if you just upgraded his wardrobe), it's got a loathesome and intelligent villain, and it has one of my favorite female characters in the series.
(And I guess Stout visited in January, because when Archie goes to LA to talk to Mrs. Potter, it's pouring.) This is definitely one of the books on the Wolfe short list, and it wouldn't be the worst place to start with the series, either.
He imbues the right amount of wit and capability to Archie and the Nero Wolfe books are simply designed for audio thanks to Archie's strong character and the amusing first-person perspective.I enjoy stories about writing/publishing and legal topics, and this one combines both.
This one had more than the usual number of characters, making it more of a sprawl than the usual Nero Wolfe story, but even the side characters were fairly well-drawn and added a layer of information and/or amusement.
I would probably ake off a star, or maybe 1.5 stars if I read the book, rather than listened to the wonderful audio version.
This one often gets called one of the best Wolfes, but for me it's too uneven. First 100 pages are kind of snoozy (even with three murders) and oddly paced, and the scene with Archie and the "girls" from the office was a little dated and annoying. But Archie's trip to LA (where it rains the whole time), the scenes with Mrs. Potter (more than Archie can handle/understand), and the climactic scene with the murderer confronted by the client are all terrific. Lotsa orchids in this one.
Fun read. Interesting to see your standard murder mystery through the prism of the author's day and age. Eesh that 9 page confession letter.... I totally skimmed that.... Just to get yo the section where Nero sets out his logic of who, what and when.Not earth shaking but will let you kill some time enjoyably. Archie is a charmer.
I am a Wolfe/Goodwin fan and thoroughly enjoyed rereading this one; which I consider one of the best. Plenty of twists and turns as Wolfe tackles a mystery with apparently no client or evidence other than connection with a manuscript has meant death to three people. Great fun with the usual cast plus interesting suspects and supporting characters.
Very good full length mystery. I didn't have any idea of who the guilty party was until Wolfe does his big reveal at the end & Archie was in fine form.
Nero Wolfen toimistossa käy kova kuhina, kun Corrigan, Phelps, Kustin & Briggsin lakiasiaintoimiston koko asianajajakaarti saapuu yhtä aikaa orkideoja kasvattelevan newyorkilaisetsivän juttusille.
Vikkeläliikkeinen murhaaja tuntuu kuitenkin olevan aina askelen edellä, eivätkä tutkimuksia juurikaan vauhdita maanvaivana tunnetun tarkastaja Cramerin yhteistyötarjoukset.Kuoleman käsikirjoituksen tapahtumat sijoittuvat 1950-luvun New Yorkiin.
Eletään vuoden 1951 alkupuolta, jolloin konekirjoitustoimistot olivat arkipäivää.
Teos onkin jännityskertomuksen ohella myös kiehtova aikamatka yli kuudenkymmenen vuoden taakse, jolloin kaikki liike-elämän asiat hoidettiin ilman tietokoneita, kopiokoneita, matkapuhelimia ja Internetiä.Teos on epäilemättä yksi Rex Stoutin parhaita dekkareita.
Vauhdikkaat tapahtumat ja hulvattomat tilanteet viihdyttävät lukijaa ensi lehdiltä kirjan loppuun saakka.
Neron Wolfen avustajan Archie Goodwinin osuus tapahtumien selvittelijänä on poikkeuksellisen merkittävä.
Archie Goodwin toimii myös teoksen kertojana.
A A father from Peoria comes to Nero Wolfe and Archie Goodwin to hire them to solve his daughter's murder.
Her last letter said she was going to meet up with an author willing to pay to know how to make a rejected book better.
The problem is that the author used a fictitious pen name.
But Nero Wolfe has seen that name once before ...
on a list stuck in a dead man's book.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SPOILERS STANDING IN THE RAINCover Art - Interesting.
This is easy prey for Wolfe to spot and point up.
She has nerve and the sense to trust Archie, out of the ...
You read Rex Stout and you keep wondering how such a nice guy could be part of one of those organizations that want to rule the world.
His crime fiction is all about the positive side of individualism and the stories are full of conservative morals.
In this particular one, Archie falls for a married woman - a little too plump, a little too short - but never makes a move.And Wolfe, the essence of the sucessful individualism, the guy that beats the Estate, gives us his usual show.
Reading the ones on my shelf.
If you know a book has been written revealing your terrible secret would you murder those who have read it to prevent it getting out to the public?
Archie is 2 minutes too late at one point and that angers him.
I have just realised one of the great things about Rex Stout: when describing a character he doesn't.
He comments on something important about the person and the physical thing that goes with that.
Mrs. Potter is 10 pounds heavier than Archie's ideal but has a cheery round face and twinkly eyes.
I'm sure I've read this before.Rex Stout's Nero and Archie are my favorite mystery characters of all time. Archie is a "wag" and Nero is a genius who manages to exert pressure on the world using only his brain.
Partly because a book is involved, but also an excellent mystery and good characters, including one of Rex Stout's best: the one and only Mrs. Potter!This one is a delight to read all the way through.
(Oddly enough, another book in which the killer keeps a step ahead is another one dealing with books; PLOT IT YOURSELF--another favorite of mine.)The west coast scenes date the book, because the weather is such that you don't find so much out there anymore around Los Angeles.There was a small matter that I was surprised that Wolfe did not bring up: one of the clues involved receiving various material from the law firm, and one of the letters had a notation printed on it in a distinctive hand.
Su creación, Nero Wolfe, - un sagaz y antipático detective privado - ,alcanzó popularidad en los años 30, y también fue llevado al cine y la televisión.Sin embargo, aunque era Wolfe quién resolvía los crímenes, el verdadero investigador era su ayudante, Archie Goodwin, quien actúa como narrador - en primera persona - de las historias.En esta obra, mal traducida al español como La muerte entre orquídeas, - su título original es Murder by the book- , Wolfe y su equipo deben desentrañar una serie de asesinatos relacionados con la fallida publicación de un libro.La novela es entretenida y llevadera.
Overall, I enjoyed this mystery, which was this month's book group selection.
The mystery was well done, with all the clues present, but with enough red herrings that it kept me guessing.
That being said, the characters are somewhat dated (book was written in 1951), and I found the attitudes towards women expressed by Archie, the narrator of the story, a little off-putting.
Still, it was a fun read, and kept my interest, even though I occasionally wanted to hit the narrator upside the head!
Your mileage may vary on this - some members of my book group were also bothered, while others were not.
Murder by the Book is one of the later, and better loved Nero Wolfe mysteries.
I thought it was just alright, as Nero and Archie stumble through a leadless case, where three murders are linked only by a pseudonymous manuscript and its unknown contents.
With little to go on, our heroes badger the staff of a small law-firm that employed the first victim, setting an elaborate trap to flush out the murder.
The climax, which hinges on a confession that contradicts the confessor's prior actions, is quite moving, but the rest is Archie bumping around New York and a rainy and placeless Los Angeles.
Rex Stout's "Murder by the Book (A Nero Wolfe Mystery 19)" is another of his good ones (of course, even his bad ones are better than most books).
It's the 19th book in his Nero Wolfe series and was first published back in 1951.
It's written in good Stout/Wolfe style, so you know exactly what to expect by this point, and there's the added bonus that Archie has some really good interactions throughout the book.
But, other than that, I'm happy to rate it at a Very Good 4 stars out of 5.
Mysterious auto accidents, an apparent suicide and a missing manuscript all add up to a classic Nero Wolfe mystery.
As usual, Wolfe's right hand man, Archie, does most of the work, and gets to wine and dine lovely women.
It is fun to read books that were written in a past time and compare them to books written recently about that time period.
If the book were written today, the working women would be doing it by choice, and would be career minded.
In this book, Wolfe comments about a 40 something woman working in an office that she obviously has a bad marriage or else she wouldn't be working.
I have always considered this story one of the best in the series and return to it often.
What makes Nero Wolfe books work is not so much the unchanging setting; the brownstone, dinners, beer and Archie, but the departures from the norm.
Murder by the book contains a taut mystery concerning what may have been written by a dead law clerk, but also a trip to California by Archie that features two beautifully etched portraits of minor characters.
I would recommend Stouts books to anyone; all of them are excellent but this one remains an elegant classic.
Easily one of the most baffling Nero Wolfe mysteries. Three different deaths seem to have no connection but for a scrap of paper with a list of names found by Inspector Cramer. Wolfe is very reluctant to get involved at first but eventually gets pulled in to a case which perplexes even his great mind. To try and find the elusive hidden nugget of truth which will break the case open, Archie Goodwin must travel across America to find the one individual who may be able to flush the murderer out into the open...
"Murder By the Book" is one of my favorite Nero Wolfe mysteries. It contains all the hallmark Stout qualities of this classic series from the wry humor to the gourmet food to the mass denouement in Wolfe's office as he unmasks yet another murderer. Written in 1951, it does have the cultural mores that were ingrained in American society at the time, but once past the political un-correctness of some of the passages (nowhere near the pervading tone of a Mickey Spillane novel), it is a fun and entertaining read for the mystery aficionado. A very good read.
One of the top Nero Wolfe novels. Unlike some of Stout's books, this does not have too much plot getting in the way of the story. And that makes it even more fun to read.Also worthwhile for the scene in which Archie gets about 10 women into Wolfe's house for dinner.I'd rank this with the three Zeck novels as representing peak form for Stout.
This is an interesting mystery filled with humor and witty dialog. Many theories and possibilities float around the plot line and then, as so often happens, the mastermind detective explains all the details with the help of the suspects. This is the 19th of the Nero Wolf series. I have not read the first 18, so I might backtrack and read another in the near future.
one of the better Nero Wolf novels.
Another gem by Rex Stout.
