https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/47959.Queen_of_the_Darkness
Anyway, I really did enjoy QUEEN OF THE DARKNESS; Daemon at long last stepped into his role as consort, Jaenelle showed the Blood who’s boss, and other characters such as Lucivar & Saetan got their happy ending.Angelline is now the undisputed Queen of Queens, although not everyone has accepted that fact yet, namely her wayward family because she hasn’t fully demonstrated what she’s capable of.
The author does get there eventually, and it is one of the best parts, but still I was expecting something a little flashier.I was so very happy when Jaenelle & Daemon’s relationship made it to the romantic stage that I think that I may have whooped out loud.
I was already growing tired of it in the second book, but by the half way point in this book I just couldn't help but outwardly sigh/roll my eyes at the ridiculous over-use of Jaenelle's midnight voice/saphire eyes, Lucivar's arrogant lazy smile, and Daemon's killing edge.
Is this the only way Bishop knows how to differentiate the character's from each other?
It took me a day or two respite to decide that it really couldn't get any worse and luckily for me, it didn't.To her credit, Bishop does manage to write some truly touching moments between some of the characters and I think these moments are the reason I keep coming back for more.
I really enjoyed the growth of the main character in this book, and the agony and tension between the main character and the love interest was great...to a point (see below)SPOILERS:I had a FEW quibbles along the way, namely:-Why, if everyone is SO UBER with magic and detection was the spy allowed to stay in the house to try to kidnap her sister?
Why did she let her family stay so long AT ALL?!?!
I woulda kicked them to the curb after a day!-Let's be honest, after about 1200 pages in the trilogy, THAT WAS THE CONSUMMATION SCENE?!?!
1st read - July 20142nd read - October 2018Buddy read with AlyI have been absolutely addicted to Anne Bishop's Black Jewels trilogy ever since I discovered Daughter of the Blood and after the huge changes at the end of Heir to the Shadows I couldn't wait to start Queen of the Darkness.
If you don't want to see these spoilers then look away now but before you go I will tell you that the Black Jewels trilogy is one of the most complex, compelling and utterly addictive fantasy series that I've discovered in a long time and if it's one you haven't started yet then you're seriously missing out!Still with me?
They finally admitted they wanted a physical relationship, they kissed, and then they had sex.
It’s not like I expected erotica or anything but I was sorely unsatisfied here.The big face off with Dorothea and Hekate isn’t much better.
The webs indicate a war would be Really Bad, so Janelle concocts a plan that is dangerous, self-sacrificing… and anticlimactic.
I wanted poor Damon to have his love.
I wanted Saetan, Lucivar, Surreal, and Janelle to find some peace and happiness.
I thought Damon’s big plan was pretty awesome.
I wanted at least a few pages of HEA.
I NEED MORE

If for just one second, we really knew what was going on inside her head and her heart--not just what every single male character who fawns over her thinks that she thinks or feels.Without any real insight into Jaenelle's actual mind, the books feel kinda creepy and almost...idk, voyeuristic?
The fact that Jaenelle had to have all the men in her life come and save her from how emotionally and physically hurt she was by this left an extremely sour taste in my mouth.Especially since Daemon has been lusting after her since she was a little kid and fighting his inappropriate feelings for her since they met.
The characters are as flat as pancakes.
The two main villains plan about 5 evil schemes and all of them are foiled in 2 seconds flat.
We keep hearing how sadistic the the main love interest is and there's nothing of the sort.
One good thing was when the main couple finally had sex it wasn't the giant cheese fest I expected it to be.And besides the plot, just plain repetitive writing, repeating the same things and the same words over and over again.Like others have said, if you're looking for books like this go with the Kushiel series by Jaqueline Carey.
Buddy read with Sarah
3,5. Ik vond het een leuke reeks,alleen spijtig dat je het centrale personage nooit echt leert kennen omdat alles uit de standpunten van anderen wordt verteld.
The world-building is still the weakest aspect of these books (though I finally got, in this third volume, that the only access from Terreille to Kaeleer and vice versa is through portals, so there's very little communication between the two realms) but again, it's less problematic now that the work has been put in getting through books 1 & 2.The stakes are higher in this book than the previous two; Jaenelle has now come of age and taken the reigns of power, so Hekatah and Dorothea band together to make a final attempt to wrest control of the realms from her hands.
"The Realm of Terreille will be torn apart by its own foolish greed.
Those who survive will serve, but few will survive."So said the mad seer Tersa in the prologue in the first book of this trilogy, Daughter of the Blood, and this is when it finally happens.Everything changes, everything gets torn apart in this book.
It's an awesome, incredible book, and I am greatly indebted to the person that recommended the trilogy to me!If you like dark fantasy, this is an excellent read for you; if like well-crafted stories and convincing worlds, this is an excellent read for you; if you have a pulse, this is an excellent read for you!
I am completely in love with this series. It makes me laugh, cry, and rage. I am crying right now from both happiness and heartache. Don't judge me until you read until the last page because this story is BRUTAL on your emotions. Good lord. Anne Bishop I bow down to you as my queen.Daemon, I love you so very much. I find peoples' lack of faith in you astounding, but I have always believed in you!
Reread audible version 5 stars (2017)Original reading paperback publishing date 5 stars
I will slap the shit out of you.I am pretty excited to read the other Black Jewel novels but holy ever living shit do I not want to let go of these characters.
We've seen some fucking dark times and had some great laughs and lived in an indescribable (at least on my part) world full of magic, beauty, death, destruction, torture, kindness and love.
I couldn't bring it to words.As usual, I feel the need to warn with this series, that it is dark.
Personally, I think that makes it feel all the more real.
Daemon, her promised Consort, will sacrifice himself if it means keeping Jaenelle from annihilation as she works her powerful magic to restore balance to the land.I've already talked about character development and gushed about how much I love these books, so I'll just say a few words more.
I'm a little unsure, at the end of it all, whether the three realms were on different planes or in different places.
All in all, if you like fantasy, and even if you are a bit squeamish most of the perverted stuff is more implied than described (which is an important distinction), you will love this trilogy.
I first read this series in Sept of 2013 and was rereading by Dec 2013.
I have reread a couple series but this is the first that I read every single word and savored them!
Absolutely love the intensity of the writing and "adore" doesn't sound right coming from a guy but I do adore all the characters.
What a great bunch.The characters that have been gathered along the way start to come into focus in this one.
Reading it the second time was definitely more intense knowing how every little scene affected the outcome.9/20/13Totally LOVED this book but i want MORE!!!
Fuller review to come.
An excellent conclusion to a really weird series.I read all three books in about 3 weeks, they were that well written and that well paced.
I still can't decide whether I liked these books or not.
However they were a great way to kill a few weeks at a boring summer job.
Upon finishing the series, I realized that they are not telling Janaelle's story, but instead the story of Daemon...which was a really interesting revelation.
He ended up being such a multi-layered complex character that it surprised me.
Probably one of the most interesting male character's I've encountered in fiction.
Finally, all the children are grown up.
Well, as grown up as they can be.
Some die which just break my heart.
Usually, I'm okay with characters dying or getting hurt, but I feel like I've watched all of these characters grow up and to watch them die just kills me.
This is the final show down.
Witch will now bring war to all the rotten.
Lorn is finally revealed.
Regardless, I do have to say, I cried in this story.
When the war is over, I cried for Daemon.
And how those ungrateful brats were cold to Daemon.
Queen of the Darkness, the third and final book in Anne Bishop’s Black Jewels Trilogy is comparable to that of the movie, Return of the Jedi.
Her great Witch power that is deep inside of her is building at such a fast rate because of the evil skanky whore queen, Dorothea, the High Priestess of Hayll and Hekatah the self-proclaimed skank Dark Priestess of Hell.
This story begins a short time after Queen of the Darkness ends and about the aftermath that Jaenelle has unleashed.
Anne writes a tender story about Daemon and Jaenelle that I was hoping for in Queen of Darkness.
That Daughter of the Blood was her debut novel is truly astounding for the sheer scale of the world she had built and the richness of the characters who inhabited it.Like the two books before Queen of the Darkness, this one too was told from multiple points of view.
I even took it slow with Queen of the Darkness and yet, as I got closer to the end, I finished it one sitting and I could not stop reading till I had reached the end.I love how well Bishop writes the grey characters.
Damn! I did not expect to love this series so much, but here I am with five stars on all three. This is by far my favorite though. I only have one complaint. Jaenelle and Daemon finally getting together left much to be desired.
*happy sigh* I love coming back to this trilogy. The additional glimpses you get into the world from the following books (short stories as well as the Lady Cassidy books) just makes this series all the greater. I'm already looking forward to the day I can come back and reread them again.
This is one of the books that I have re-read multiple times throughout my life. And every time I find something different, and every time I love the book even more. Saetan, Daemon and Lucivar will forever be my favorite heroes. ❤️
I just loved this trilogy, but I would say that Daughter of the Blood is the best one!!!
I just don't understand why these are popular. They are repetitive, the characters are all flat and there isn't any dramatic tension because the heroine is 6000 times more powerful than anyone else. I completed the trilogy but I'm not reading the rest.
Twisted-wonderful---I loved this series. — this is still one of the very best series I’ve read—
She also knows that she may have a price to pay but she is doing it of her own free will for the people she loves and cares about most.Daemon has finally returned home and taking his place as the Queens consort he is still taking everything in with Janelle still being alive and the fact that she is a woman and not a young lady.I wanted to read more about this couple but still, this book was good and interesting the author took her readers for a roller coaster ride.
I hope there could be one more book to come but if not the series was a great read.
The immense amount of sexual violence and torture in this series (like, seriously...these books fall under every TW in existence) has made it hard to truly enjoy, but in this final book I think, at last, Bishop's writing skills have balanced out her occasionally grotesque content.
I can't remember the last time I read the finale of a fantasy series and felt so satisfied; Bishop sacrificed neither plot nor action, and ended the trilogy's arc nicely.
