https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/390252.The_Saint_and_Mr_Teal
Most intrigingHere we clearly view how the saint manages things to reach his own brand of justice, even when it doesn't go as he plans. Particularly in " The Death Penalty"! His opinion of the frailty of human life and when the death penalty is applied is as relative today as it was back in the 30's and 40's when the story was written.
But this is enough draw the killer’s attention to him, involving him in the first of the three adventures related here.
The mainspring of the story is a scientific invention that was implausible even by the standards of 1933; but if those with a knowledge of atomic physics can put it temporarily aside, they will still find an enjoyable yarn.The next story finds Simon helping Chief Inspector Teal for once, combatting an outbreak of gangsterism in London, and in the final one he deals in a fairly drastic way with two purveyors of something possibly even more unpleasant.All of these novelettes, especially the last two, are rather grimmer and more serious than the general run of Saint stories, despite several comic interludes.
Originally published on my blog here in March 2000.The three stories in Once More the Saint include one of Charteris' best, one of his worst, and one pretty standard.
This is a more exciting story, and is interesting in the way it starts a train of thought which leads to Simon Templar facing these gangsters on their home territory, in The Saint In New York.The best of the three stories, The Death Penalty, is set in the unlikely location of the Scilly Isles.
The story is about the evil of drugs, and has one of the most unpleasant villains in any of the Saint stories.
They are collected together because they all feature an appearance by Scotland Yard Inspector Claude Eustace Teal, his primary nemesis amongst the rozzers, but, in truth, the persistent and often helpful Mr Teal figures prominently only in the first two stories, "The Gold Standard" and "The Man From St Louis." In "The Death Penalty," that pillar of the English legal system only shows up for a moment at the end.Like all the tales of The Saint, these three are vibrant and whimsical, fast-paced and violent.
The Saint was a great character and is still an enjoyable read after all these years.
I came across The Saint after seeing the movies with George Sanders and found a Saint book in my local library, the saint seemed the natural progression from The Hardy Boys and the Three Investigators for a young reader.Charteris style of writing was always stylish and exciting, he made the most of his characters and always gave value for money, adventure and intrigue.If you haven't read the saint and only know the tv show, then be prepared as he is completely different character in the books.
But I won't spoil it for you, pick up The Saint and Mr.Teal or any of Charteris books and enjoy.Scott A.
Coleman
This was my first sampling of Charteris, and I thoroughly enjoyed his Robin Hood-slash-James Bond creation The Saint, the pulp-fiction plots with sinister criminals and the swift yet elegant prose. This book is really three novellas and provides an excellent introduction to this great character, of which I plan to read more!
Enjoyable. Like the writing style. Wins the prize for most bizarre similes.
