https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/564546.Sharpe_s_Honor
Another enjoyable entry in the Sharpe series by Bernard Cornwell.
Like all of the Sharpe books, Sharpe's Honor takes place during the Napoleonic Wars.
They follow the exploits of soldier Richard Sharpe, whose unlikely rise up from private into the officer ranks only occurred due to him saving the life of Arthur Wellesley, aka Lord Wellington.
Usually Sharpe is fighting the French, but there's a twist in this one that embroils friend, foe and ally all together at any given moment.
It shakes up the series nicely and Cornwell's description of battle and his excellent attention to period details make Sharpe's Honor a winner!
Not much to add to what I have already written about Sharpe-series. It's like pop corn - once you start, you can't stop, but it will never really fill your belly. But as long as you take those books for what they are - a guilty pleasure and a quick, fun read - a book about Richard Sharpe is always an enjoyable experience.
It's terrifying enough just reading Cornwell's words and makes me very grateful to soldiers everywhere.The StoryThe story begins with our introduction to El Matarife, priming us for the terror of the knife fight at the end of a chain and continues with the very worried Trumper-Jones wondering if Sharpe really means to surrender.It's the Treaty of Valençay, named for the chateau where the Spanish king is held prisoner.
Major Montbrun is a French officer and wants to make a deal with Sharpe that will benefit his master, King Joseph of Spain.
Поради част от събитията в предишната книга от серията, майор Шарп е изпаднал в дълбока депресия.И когато е предизвикан на дуел от испански генерал, той приема и по този начин застрашава кариерата и живота си.Принуден е от обстоятелствата да се бори и за честта си, единственото нещо което му е останало и което никога не е било за продан.Идва и решаващата битка от Войната на полуострова, тази при Витория-Гастейс. Уелингтън показва на целия свят, че знае и да атакува!
I am a fan of the Sharpe series, but this one seemed a bit forced to me.
Even given Richard Sharpe's knack for being at the wrong place at the wrong time, the sequence of events that lead to his multiple apparent deaths are a bit far-fetched.I also do not recall Cornwell using so many point of view shifts within single scenes.
During the battle scenes you will hear the roll of the drums and smell and taste the gun smoke in the air, and if you are reading a Sharpe novel, that's probably what you're after!
I think the worst aspects of this book came from a new theory I have that Bernard Cornwell comes up with clever words to attach to Sharpe’s name for book titles, and then writes the book trying to shoehorn as many allusions to that word as possible throughout the book.Taking place in the closing months of the Spanish conflict between Britain and France during the Napoleonic Wars, Major Richard Sharpe is the target of a plot by the French intelligence officer Pierre Ducos.
Sharpe spends a lot of time ruminating about honour and feeling guilty about his infidelity to his wife and daughter.
His ruminates about whether his personal honor is worth more than serving/protecting his country, carrying out his assigned mission which was given by a friendly superior officer with Wellington's concurrence, lessening the chances his men and other British troops will be killed in battle, and aiding a paramour who is in dire straits.
Unbeknownst to him, Sharpe is caught up in an espionage plot to trick the Spanish nobles into supporting the French puppet regime and sever ties with the British and Wellington.
Sharpe books seem to come in two formulas.
The first Sharpe gets into trouble with his own side fights a big battle and wins.
The bigger the battle the better the book.
Cornwall is at his best and probably the greatest ever explaining and entertaining with battles of the Napoleonic wars.
This is the second type of Sharpe book - alone behind enemy lines.
I just wasn’t convinced by the fight the baddies, get the girl, escape, revenge and lame plot around a treaty that comes to nothing.
The final third of the book covers the battle of Victoria we are back in the sweet spot.
At the Battle of Vitoria (21 June 1813) a British, Portuguese and Spanish army under General the Marquess of Wellington broke the French army under Joseph Bonaparte and Marshal Jean-Baptiste Jourdan near Vitoria in Spain, eventually leading to victory in the Peninsular War. British outflank French, attack over and ridge that thought to be un-passable and smash French army which fled in complete disarray and abandon plunder from Spain that causes British soldiers to plunder the plunder.
An unfinished duel, a midnight murder, and the treachery of a beautiful prostitute lead to the imprisonment of Sharpe.
Sharpe is at his best when he's battling a memorable foe, and aside from Obadiah Hakeswill (who, Cornwell unfortunately killed off in the last installment of the series, Sharpe's Enemy) , the French spy Pierre Ducos is about the best adversary the rifleman could have.
In Sharpe's Honour, Ducos is at the centre of a plot to push the British army out of France before said army can dispatch the French from Spain.
Picking up soon after events in 'Sharpe's Enemy', a brooding, unhappy, frustrated Sharpe finds himself in all sorts of trouble and must get out of it before the Battle of Vitoria.
This episode in the Sharpe series is a bit different than the others. It seems that it was written to be a an old time serial with several cliffhangers that would keep the movie goer coming back to see what was going to happen. Deceptions and last minute rescues make up much of the book. As usual, there is a woman involved who tests Sharpe’s honour, hence the title. It was still an exciting story that was hard to put down.
Richard Sharpe gets falsely accused of murder, hung, beat up, tortured, captured by the French...and still comes back to lead his regiment, win a battle, gain riches, and save the girl. The great thing is that despite the pardonable fictional excess of putting one character (a lovable rogue at that) in the middle of everything, the basic historical thread here is true, including the low-ranking soldiers making off with the King of Spain's diamonds and gold.
It should have been named “Sharpe's Deux Ex Machina” as the plot is filled with implausible twists which conveniently help the hero reach a climactic scene, much more than usual dosage of Sharpe plots.
Most of the plot seems hastily cobbled together just to place Sharpe at the pivotal battle in the end.
He is a famous and popular soldier, who is set to be hanged in front of scores of British soldiers as well as British, Spanish high ranking officials yet NONE of them notice that the man being hanged is not Sharpe at all!
A more personal story than many of the other entries - more character driven and with only a single small battle scene, and no real appearances by the usual greenjacketed supporting cast - yet still infused with the occasionally surprising turn of phrase or small, intensely human scene that marks the best entries of the series.
Here Cornwell departs from his usual plot of “Sharpe encounters a problem and solves by going into battle” and makes the story less straight forward. This is a twofold benefit: Sharpe’s own story becomes more interested, unexpected and allows some significant insights into his thoughts on one hand, and allows some fascinating action to take place in Sharpe’s absence.
Another “Sharpe is a spy” tale that works quite well as a direct sequel to Sharpe’s Enemy, though it lacks that volume’s overall punch and sense of tension. Well written, as are all of the entries, and breezy in its construction.
Rifles, War with Napoleon, crazy inept officers, amazingly adept soldiers, Richard Sharpe who continues to up and down from Officer to plain soldier and back again. THe regency version of Secret forces
Sharpe is accused of murder but manages to clear his name in the end.
In this book Sharpe realizes some important trough about himself. Also the battle of Vittoria is fought
A fantastic Sharpe book. one of the best of the series!
excellent read!! loved the description of fights and detail of the characters!
Not one of the better ones
One of the weaker installments of the series. It meanders around, the concluding showdown is ho-hum, and there's a distinct shortage of Harper.
Considering Sharpe's series, I would rate this specific book as average. Not one of my favorites but not the worst.
audiobook. This is one of the best of the Sharpe series - at least so far...
Sharpe disgraced? Never happen! The war in Spain is ending. What will Sharpe do for soldering?
One of the best in the Sharpe series. Excellent insight into the fighting, intelligence and strategy of Wellington.
You can literally figure out the plot of this within the first 20 pages, so predictable has the formula become. Doesn’t mean it’s not tremendous fun, though. Whenever I’ve read a few disappointing books, I can always rely on Sharpe to give me something to speed through and love.
just to emerge at the height of the Battle at Vitoria as the conquering Hero leading his own South Essex into victory when it already seemed lost for good.I guess what i want to say is that this time the plot sucked hard, it is stereotypical, not too inventive and frustrating in its repetitiveness, but the fun was in the descriptions, in Sharpe's once again cynical and suffering character and views on the world and the authentic feeling of the descriptions of the time and customs when McClane isn't on screen and la Puta Dorada doesn't try to start her own porn empire 200 years before motion pictures were invented.
That aside, this is an unusual entry in the series in that Major Richard Sharpe, now the South Essex's second in command, spends almost the entire book away from his Regiment, and some of it - due to a handy plot contrivance - dead.
The plot unites the scheming French spymaster Major Pierre Ducos (Sharpe's Enemy) with the beautiful French spy, Spanish aristocrat, and ex-lover of Richard Sharpe, Hélène Leroux (Sharpe's Sword), as well as a villainous inquisitor (I didn't expect to see the Spanish inquisition feature in this series, but it's historically accurate) and a ruthless guerilla leader in a scheme which sees the hero tried and convicted of the murder of a Spanish general.
