https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/994794.The_Mind_Of_Mr_J_G_Reeder
From BBC Radio 4 Extra:,Mr JG Reeder has the mind of a criminal, using it to uncover the peculiar circumstances surrounding a bank robbery, the death of the night-watchman and the part in the plot played by his beautiful daughter.This first story provides useful insight into the past of Mr JG Reeder.
His novel methods bring the criminals of 1920s London to justice.Novelist, playwright and journalist, Edgar Wallace, is best known for his popular detective and suspense stories which, in his lifetime, earned him the title, "King of the Modern Thriller."Although created at roughly the same time, Mr JG Reeder is the diametric opposite of Sam Spade, Philip Marlow and Mike Hammer.
A series of enthralling mysteries by written by Edgar Wallace. They feature the enigmatic figure of Mr JG Reeder who works for the Public Prosecutor's office and has the mind of a criminal. His novel methods bring the criminals of 1920s London to justice.
On the back cover of my Dover edition was written "[d]uring his two-decade period of popularity, in the 1920s and 1930s, it was estimated that one out of every four books read in England, excepting only Bibles and textbooks, was authored by Wallace."What was even more incredible to me is that the man is an excellent writer.
The Mind Of Mr J.G. Reeder (American Title: The Murder Book of J.
So good, in fact, that I plan to pick up some more titles and read them in the coming months.Mr. J.
While I was reading this book, just now, I found myself feeling: I know this, I must have read it before, but at the same time I did not know exactly how each of the 8 short stories in the book would finish, so I could enjoy them as though they were new.After finishing the book, I looked in my archives and found out that I had already read it twice (one in 1965 and one in 1974) both times in translations to different languages.
This third time was the first I read the book in the original English.
Even so, and although it was over 40 years since I had read it last, something of the book remained in my deepest memory.
I cannot say this of every book I've read.
inanılmaz sıkıldım okurken oysa polisiyeyi çok severim ama bu kitabı hiç sürükleyici bulmadım
Una pequeña maravilla!!
These stories are entertaining and bizarre, featuring as detective the elderly Mr JG Reeder, an expert in statistics and financial fraud.
He's fond of saying "You see, I have a criminal mind." In an early story he falls for Margaret, who is being pestered by a poetic policeman.
There is a strange entry in the series involving chalk caverns and a collapsing house and a five-mile swim for Margaret.
JG becomes an unlikely action hero and she proposes at the end of this book, but they never seem to get married, and in other stories they are as distant as ever.
Grandpa had a good taste
Synopsis: Public Prosecutor Reeder is a shabby little man but extremely talented. Here are eight of his cases.
This is a quaint collection of short crime stories highlighting the criminal mind of the affable Mr J G Reeder, a detective at the Public Prosecutor’s office.
His USP, as he keeps reminding his boss, is that he has a criminal bent of mind and views everything from that perspective, allowing him to second-guess and anticipate the actions of the criminal fraternity.
The first set of this collection is better than the second set, with the endings in the latter relying on coincidences that are only borderline believable.
Nevertheless this is a good collection of short crime stories for a lazy Sunday afternoon.https://theprintedword.wordpress.com/...
I'm afraid the J.G. Reeder stories suffer from comparison to Sherlock Holmes. Reeder resembles Holmes in a few respects; quirky, with a fantastic memory and a talent for putting together clues. I enjoy Holmes' arrogance and manic qualities. Reeder, on the other hand, is outwardly demure, unimpressive, and except for a seeming inability to do anything but work, is without charming faults to balance his brilliance. Still, I shouldn't be so critical. In fact I enjoyed these little stories, despite Wallace's inability to create any sort of tense build-up. The "reveal" is always thorough and satisfying.
I first discovered these stories when I heard two of the stories in a collection of old mystery pieces on audio book. The collection is good. The character is impossible and fun to read about. The mysteries are preposterous but would you want it any other way? The writing is smart and ornate, nice diversion
Great 1920s murder mystery!
I do enjoy Mr. Reeder. He's such an unlikely hero.
A.L. Burt, n.d.
pretty good collection of mystery stories by a prolific athour
