https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/148584.Elephants_Can_Remember
You see, the reason I hold Dame Agatha Christie in such high regard is that she always outsmarts me, and I don't mind in the least--I love her for her twisted mind.
I don't believe for one moment that Christie declined with age--she wrote excellent novels throughout her 56-year career, and a few of my favorites were late in her life.
I just think, for whatever reason, this wasn't one of her best.Christie has many excellent "cold case" novels; they were one of her specialties--Murder in Retrospect, Dumb Witness, Nemesis, Sleeping Murder, and many others.
It took me a few attempts to get into the story, not because it was difficult to find a way to engage with the plot but purely because I enjoyed re-reading the opening of the story where Ariadne Oliver, Dame Agatha's alter ego in this series, considers the different ways to wear a hat and which hat is appropriate for which occasion.I love Ariadne.
Despite the occasional comic relief through Ariadne's antics, there is little that is cozy or twee about this story and in a way it struck me as if Christie tried her hand at a dark, psychological thriller, rather than at another Poirot mystery.
Many of the Christie novels I love best are quite dark - just look at Endless Night!
Wonderful luck that was, Mrs. Oliver thought to herself.I actually really enjoyed this novel although it was very different to the usual Agatha Christie murder mysteries.
Elephants Can Remember deals with a cold case, one devoid of threat or danger, where Poirot tries to put together events that happened 12 years prior.
This could sound drab but for the brilliance of Ariadne Oliver.
Not only does the case land on her lap but she actively goes in search of elephant people with long memories to great humour.
Her comments about the literary gathering, experience with fans, etc., all sounded like things Christie had experienced.
When I first read this novel, I did not realise that it was among the late ones, published in 1972 (and AC died in 1976).Now it was a more conscious read and bearing the publishing date in mind, it really felt a little ... hmm... maybe "tired" is the appropriate word.The mystery in itself was quite intriguing, but the way it was presented, was not. Hercule Poirot and Mrs Oliver both lacked energy and the solution was also just an eye-witness eventually confirming & telling what happened.Not a bad book altogether, but not engaging either.
This was my least favorite of all the Poirot novels.
On the surface it was a Poirot novel, possessing all the necessary elements: the complicated mystery, the little clues that don't seem at first relevant, the humor that comes out mainly through the side kick full of fanciful ideas, the love story between two young people, and of course, Poirot himself.
And the mystery itself....Though I didn't have every detail worked out, primarily because I was over complicating things and building in coincidences that turned out to be untrue, I still managed to figure the whole thing out well before Poirot.
Poirot is still my favourite of AC's detectives. And every time I read one, I picture David Suchet in my mind. :)Ariadne Oliver returns in this book and she is such a fantastic character. Apparently she is slightly auto-biographical and if that is the case than Ms Christie must have been a ton of fun to be around.As usual, there are loads of clues and potential plot lines, and although I mostly got there, I still didn't quite solve everything. Great fun!
Reviewing an audio book is difficult because you have to separate out the different aspects: story, narrator and how well the story works in this media.First, the story feels a bit typical and mundane with no real excitement or cause pushing the storyline along.
With so much dialogue, he really had his work cut out for him and he saved this from being a 2 star rating.This book would have been better suited, in my opinion, as an actual book.
This book does bring up issues of murder, suicide and even sexual impropriety (though nothing vulgar or graphic) so that I would not recommend it to young readers.
Το πρόβλημα είναι πως ένα βιβλίο γραμμένο το 1972, φαντάζει τόσο πολύ "παλιομοδίτικο" για την εποχή του : μακρυμάλληδες που παίρνουν ναρκωτικά, και αχ αυτοί οι σιδηροδρομικοί υπάλληλοι που κάνουν απεργία.
Μάλλον, οι θετές μητέρες δεν είναι "πραγματικές" μητέρες (ΟΚ, και φυσικά δεν είναι, αλλά το πνεύμα της συγγραφέως είναι εντελώς αρνητικό), άσε που επιβουλεύονται και την περιουσία των υιοθετημένων τέκνων τους...Επίσης : σε τι κόσμο ζούσε τέλος πάντων αυτή η κυρία ; Όλοι πια "θα κληρονομούσαν ένα σεβαστό ποσό" για να ζήσουν ; Το είδα σε πάμπολλα βιβλία της.
Choose Your Own Adventure!The elephant brain is denser than the human’s, and the temporal lobes, associated with memory, are more developed than in humans.
Elephant lobes also have more folding, so that they can store more information.
Elephants can recognize over 200 different individuals.
A mother can remember who is trustful and complex bonds are the bricks of elephant society, while the memory is the cement.
When two elephants approach one another, they emit a “contact appeal”: if the other recognizes the appeal, it responds and approaches; if not, it starts to agitate and adopts a defensive position.
"Elephants can remember," said Mrs Oliver, "but we are human beings and mercifully human beings can forget." (Ariadne Oliver page 299).
4 Stars Elephants can remember was a satisfying read about a cold case from approximately 20 years ago where everyone involved remembers different things about the victims; you don't know who is right, wrong and which if any of it is relevant.
But of course it is nothing for Hercule Poriot's little grey cells.
Before the middle of the book, I already knew the solution to the crimes. Moreover, the explanation for the crimes was too melodramatic. And I love Poirot, but he appears little in this story, as Ariadne Oliver does too many investigations. Well, I read it in my native language and I got it from the public library where I work, but I have this book in the original in my home. Now, I don't know when I will read this story again to improve my English.
هنا سنعود بذاكرة للجريمة في ماضي لأن للحكايا الماضي ظلال طويلة .المحقق هيركول سيفتح جريمة اغلقت بسبب رغبة صديقته الكاتبة .حبكة القصة بديعة و نمط آخر لاغاتا . هي مأساة الحب.
Ariadne Oliver plays a large part in the solving of a cold case. While it's a Poirot story, Ariadne takes up much of the book, to-ing and fro-ing, and shamelessly pumping various individuals involved with the murdered inviduals for information about the odd case. She's hilarious, and for that alone, I'm giving this book 3.5 stars.
the length of time she and Poirot have been friends to focus on the story.If she was a bridesmaid at her friend's wedding, then they must have been around the same age--presumably within five years of each other.
How, then could she and Poirot have been friends for 40 years, as she says in the beginning of the book?
When they meet, she's already "Mrs. Oliver," a lady, all enormous and gray-haired and loopy--certainly not a 13-year-old girl.Trying to figure out whether Christie meant to write that they'd been friends for 20, even 30 years, or if the entire "we were school friends" connection was a mistake to begin with, drove me NUTS.
3.5*I wouldn't say I didn't like it, but it wasn't really that good, nor that captivating. But I must say that I absolutely loved the ending where everything came together, even though I had my suspicions even before it was declared.It's a story of love and jealousy and mental unstableness. Quite interesting.
I have read all the Christie Poirot books in order, the last couple years or so, and this is the last one she wrote, published in 1972, when she was 81, though she wrote the last intended one in the series, Curtain, in the forties, to be released at the conclusion of the series.
People forget, sure, though they sometimes remember things for many years.
52 years later, you do the math, is he 117?!“Elephants can remember, but we are human beings and mercifully human beings can forget.”—This is kind of how I feel about this book, after reading it.
Το είδες να έρχεται αλλα πέρα απο αυτό ήταν απλά οκ (και είναι λογικό, έχει περάσει η χρυσή εποχή της, που έγραφε και σε έκανε να την θαυμάζεις). Παρ'οτι διαδραματίζεται το 1970 και κάτι ψιλά, δεν μπορείς να καταλάβεις διαφορά σε γενικές γραμμές με τα παλαιότερα μυθιστορήματα της. Βεβαια οι ήρωες της είναι άλλης εποχής αλλα και πάλι, είναι σαν να έσκασαν με χρονομηχανή απευθείας στην εποχή του sex, drugs and rock n' roll. Οι πρακτικές και οι νοοτροπίες είναι εντελώς απαρχαιωμένες.
I skimmed from 40% on, it was more than I could endure not to.The Agatha Christie's Poirot version for telly is almost infinitely superior to the novel, and I loves me some Ariadne Oliver as played by Zoë Wanamaker, but it's still a chopped salad instead of filet mignon for dinner.First and foremost, Celia Ravenscroft is pretty much accosted by her godmother Mrs. Oliver and grilled about her parents' death in public.
The discovery of the Ravenscoft woman's twinship which is a surprise to her self-described dear friend Mrs. Oliver!
In fact, unless you just love Ariadne Oliver like I do, I encourage you to skip it.
Or was it an outsider?I think this has to be the most disappointing of all the Christie books I have read so far.
One thing I noticed in this book was that there was a ton of dialogue, which I didn't really like.
Overall, the other Christie books I have read are better, but this one was still pretty good.
It had an interesting plot, but I feel like the nature of it made it easier to guess what really happened, because with that kind of scenario there are limited possibilities for who was responsible.
A 4+, not top level, but very pleasing, nonetheless. As with most of the Mrs. Oliver/Poirot books, a little too much Ariadne, but I can forgive that. Many red herrings, and many trips into the past...I had it figured out early on, as soon as twins & wigs entered the discussion, but after years of reading Christie & other mysteries, it is hard to be totally surprised. Second tier Christie, but still very entertaining & fun. Just right for being sick in bed, as I have been most of this past week. Recommended.
I was pleasantly surprised to find that this is a Hercule Poirot/Ariadne Oliver Christie. I love the way the slightly pompous(rightly so) investigator Poirot and his dear mystery writing friend Ariadne interact. I found myself wondering if Agatha was painting a picture of herself in Miss Oliver's character.'Elephants Can Remember' is your basic cold case file, solved. The trail is cold, and there are no true clues to inspect, only vague hints by those in-directly involved so long ago. 'Old sins have long shadows'...
القصة حلوة و الفكرة حلوة و النهاية حلوة و مُرضيةبس أنا كان عندى مشكلة مع الحوار و حاساه غير منسق و غير منطقى..يمكن عيب من الترجمة مش أكترلكن بوجه عام، أنا سعيدة إنى قريت الرواية دى لأجاثا :)
This was my favorite Poirot book in some time (the last one being Death on the Nile) and everything worked wonderfully throughout.Mrs. Ariadne Oliver, mystery writer, is approached by an older woman (Mrs. Burton-Cox) at a luncheon about her goddaughter's (Celia Ravenscroft) possible engagement to this woman's son (Desmond).
The woman wants to if Celia possibly knows more than she is telling about a probable murder suicide by her parents more than a decade ago.Mrs. Oliver, feeling annoyed by Mrs. Burton-Cox for bringing up something that is none of her business, decides to seek out Hercule Poirot.
The character development and the writing style was awesome in the beginning, and it was good here and there afterwards from there. Other than that, the book was mostly boring. This is the first Agatha Christie book I've read because this one was short. But I am hoping I will like her more as I finish more of her books
Give it to Agatha Christie's superb story telling skills that the ace detective Poiroit is able to solve the mystery long after the crime has been committed. The only Poiroit novel in which his investigative effort is amply supported by another person. However compared to her other crime novels, this one is a bit flat as the end is abrupt and there are just too many coincidences.
Update: Noooo! I've been spoiled for this book and I'm not sure if I'm ever going to pick this up.Me and my dang spoiler-attracting eyes...
Ενδιαφέρον, αλλά όχι από τα καλύτερα της Κρίστι.
Reading this at the same time as Agatha Christie's autobiography made it super fun.
I see SO much of Agatha in Mrs. Oliver.I guessed what happened, and how, but I think much of that is I've read a LOT of Agatha Christie in the last few years.
And really there weren't a lot of red herrings in this one.
Edited: I dropped it to 3 stars after thinking about it/ discussing it a bit more.
Specifically, there were some mysteries that happened that were set up but never resolved.
But still - very fun to read in conjunction with the autobiography!

Too repetitive. Worst Christie book ever
