https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/557231.Five_on_Finniston_Farm
Back with the Famous Five again but this time Enid seems to have forgotten something. There's a distinct lack of conflict in this book.There is an antagonist, of sorts; a couple of them, actually, but they're so ineffectual that they're nothing more than comic relief. Without a convincing antagonist, you're left with a story that's not very exciting at all, unfortunately.This was definitely my least favourite F5 book so far.
Anyone who has seen various barely identifiable relics pried from the mud in actual archaeological digs will find it hard not to roll their eyes at Blyton's hidden tunnels and pristine swords.We have an extra dog for Timmy and a tame bird (a jackdaw for finding clues) both of which have featured before.We have more farmhouse cuisine with salads fit for kings and ripe plums (presumably considered a delicacy since they were a succulent fruit that grew in the UK at a time when imports were rare and oranges were for Christmas).We have objectionable Americans, brash and overly rich, set on buying up our history without any appreciation for it.
The "Famous Five" books gets the "It was OK" rating due to that they were among the books that made me a reader in the first place. They were soon replaced by Alistair MacLean and the Bond-novels, but did provide a stepping stone. I remember this being my favorite cover, but that I found the story a bit uneventful.
Hmmm, it wasn't even a mystery. No danger, no crooks, no fun. Also, I didn't enjoy the side characters.
Eindeutig mein Favorit bisher von der Hörspielreihe (Nr. 3 statt 18!). Ich hatte diese Folge auch nie gehört in meiner Kindheit. Die Amerikaner sind einfach super gesprochen mit diesem übertriebenen Dialekt - wahnsinnig witzig! Das Abenteuer selbst ist auch geheimnisvoll und spannend bis zum Ende. [07.08.2018]
These books (Famous five) are hands down one of my favorite books from my childhood. All those adventures and mystery …and those sandwiches they always packed! aww, just the best! I would love to read one of these again. To bring back those memories..memories of first experiences with reading books.
The children help all they can, but they are baulked by Junior and his Pops, Americans who are intent on snapping up items of historical significance to take back to America.While this book has less action in it than others, it is still an exciting, quick read.
They are a piece of my history, and the history of those who owned and loved them before me as every one of them came to me second hand.Another great Enid Blyton book; Parents, get your kids reading them to remember a simpler time, and possibly get them hungry for dinner.
Diet Famous Five anyone? Famous Five Zero? No? Not quite the same tempo as her other books, I think the middle must have fallen out. The famous five are on some weird diet in this one too, not the usual gargantuan stuffing of faces. Sarah Green reads brilliantly but it's Jan Francis who has the voices the same as they are in my head when it comes to audio versions. A small beige chunk of Famous Five fun but it Finniston a high note!
My first book on famous five!! Oh, wait... might be my first long-page book i read :)
seru juga ya kalo masih bisa liat harta2 peninggalan abad 12 di Puri Finniston. tadi ada baju zirah, trus pedang juga. jadi kebayang drama2 abad pertengahan gitu. :DP.S. : disini Enid Blyton kayaknya ada sentimen sama orang Amerika yaa. Hmm 🤔
The series makes me wonder if there is so much treasure hidden across England. So many FF books have treasure involved in some way. Might be good to go treasure hunting :-D The book showed how people can be greedy and would try to trick honest people to achieve their ends.
The one that started it all. The first book I read of the series, found in my father's library when I was 9. The book that I read more times over than any other in my life so far (between 15 and 20, by my calculations). Simply superb.My version is a Spanish translation by Editorial Juventud.
cooooooool for anyone.
I really enjoyed this one with the two Harries and Snippet the dog as well.
This was always one of my favourite Fives, although I'm not really sure why. The castle, the chapel, the treasure and Old Great-Granddad must all feature somewhere in the reason.
Den är lättläst men ändå bra! Jag läser oftast svårare böcker men jag hade förmodligen älskat denna när jag var mindre!
I enjoyed the initial hostility of the twins and how they became friends later.Having said that, and understanding the difficulties the farm was going through, once you decide to accept boarders you need to offer a good service.
The adventure this time is about as simple and light as in Go Adventuring Again (in fact, Finniston Farm is the shortest in the series going by length of the audiobook), but like in that book, there were other things surrounding the adventure that made me enjoy it.Mainly, this book seemed to me genuine and heartfelt.
Kali ini Julian, Dick, George, Anne dan Timmy (Lima Sekawan) berlibur ke Pertanian Finniston.
Bersama si kembar Harry dan Harriet, mereka menyelidiki reruntuhan puri yang konon menyimpan harta karun.
Berhasilkah mereka memecahkan misteri puri sekaligus mengamankan harta karun tersebut dari incaran Pak Henning?.Membaca buku ini seperti kembali bernostalgia ke karya Enid Blyton yang pernah kubaca saat masih SMP 😂😂 Hanya saja, yang aku baca saat itu adalah petualangan "Pasukan Mau Tahu" 😊.Walaupun misteri yang dipecahkan cukup mudah (ya iyalah, ini kan cerita anak-anak 🙈🙈), tapi aku cukup menikmati petualangan seru Lima Sekawan ini.
Yang paling menarik perhatian pada misteri ini adalah "ulah" si Nosey, burung gagak yang ada di rumah si kembar.

One of my favourites, perhaps THE favourite, as a child - there are more jolly adventures with the Five to be read, this time on a farm in sunny Dorset (where else!) Buried treasure in secret cellars, kindly farmwives, TWINS (again), DASTARDLY AMERICANS (again), swords, jewels, chapels...you name it, this has it. A tame jackdaw and small dog accompany the crew as they solve the mystery of long buried castle cellars that has been plaguing the family for years, and it only takes them 3 days or so! Go, Famous Five!
The four children and Timmy the dog are paying guests at Finniston Farm, and find themselves shocked at the behavior of the other guests, and American and his son, Junior.
But when the four children volunteer to help out, the twins become friendly, especially after George and Timmy teach Junior a lesson.
But Junior's father, Mr. Henning, is searching for old English treasures to take back to America, and just maybe there are some on the farm, beneath where the old castle once stood.
INO, Mr. Henning is not a true villain, but merely rich and unlikeable.
Finniston farm, ancient ruins, a medieval castle, and twins!I absolutely adored Famous Five as a child. I trawled through secondhand stores and slowly acquired all of them. For some reason in my childhood, there were lots of British books and comics widely available and back then they were sold for the mighty sum of 10 cents. Seems funny now when some of the secondhand shops charge $7-10 per book! I still have all of them safely saved in storage for when Little Miss grows up.
Pretty disappointing this story from the Famous Five series! The build up was long and then the actual adventure itself was pretty tame to be honest! Given that it is the eighteenth book I kind of understand that ideas might have been running thin but this one was a little dull. I am hoping that the last few books will be better than this one!
Another great adventure!! Loved little Junior and his Dad. There have been lots of castles to discover and this one had valuable treasures!! Maybe I’m just getting used to the books but I’m liking these last ones more and more!
Compared to the rest of Famous Five books, this one is not really as exciting. I feel that the characters are lacking, and so is the conflict. Although not one of my favourites book from the Famous Five, it is still a quick, good read.
Not worth spending time for this. Boring, predictable and repetitive.
My favorite childhood read.
Delightful read! I’ve read this multiple times over the years and it never gets old. Love the pursuit of castle ruins.
Lumayan mengobati mood baca. Pas kelar baca Paper Town yang boring abis.^^
Eigentlich mag ich die "Fünf Freunde" Bücher total gerne, da sie mich auch immer an meine Kindheit erinnern. Dieses Buch fand ich allerdings recht schwach. Es kommt keine Spannung auf, Gefahren gibt es hier auch keine, die "Fieslinge" sind seicht und kaum der Rede wert. Nettes Kinder-/Jugendbuch, welches aber leider nicht mit den anderen "Fünf Freunde" Büchern mithalten kann.
