https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/10133923-the-skull
One of the pleasures of early Dick is that, because of his unusual treatment of otherwise hackneyed plot devices, even the oldest stories seldom strike the reader as old.
After all, at least on the surface, it’s just another of those “let’s go jump in the time machine and kill Hitler” yarns, only this time it’s not Hitler or someone like him, but a cult leader whose pacifism and Luddite beliefs led to the stagnation of human progress two hundred years ago.Even the big twist at the story’s end no longer surprises (I wonder if Michael Moorcock stole this idea from Dick for “Behold the Man”?) Still, it is a well-written story, and I enjoyed it.
It just didn’t thrill me, like almost everything else by Dick always did.
The Council decides that the way to solve their problem is to use their handy-dandy time travel machine and send someone back to assassinate the founder of this movement before he makes his world-changing speech in the 1960s.
They find a prisoner named Conger and offer him a Get Out of Jail Free card if he'll travel back in time and kill the Founder before he can make this speech.
Conger carries the skull back in time with him to help him figure out who the right guy is, so he can kill him and bring back the new skull, and the Council can be satisfied that he got the right guy.I saw where this story was going from the very start, so it's pretty predictable in that sense.
Coincidentally I read it two weeks before Christmas.The title is rather misleading for me. I assumed a rather grim tale, but I was wrong. The conclusion of the story is heartwarming, and as other reviews had revealed, The Founder in the story is obviously based on Jesus Christ.This review is my early Christmas Greetings. Merry Christmas!
Last, but not least, there was Grampa Simpson, who, on Homer’s wedding day, advised his son that whenever he might find himself hurled back into time he should never ever change anything, not even kill a mosquito, lest he start a chain reaction with unforeseeable consequences for the future.The problem about time travel, then, is, in terms of literature, that there is hardly anything that has not happened before.
One reads this short-story and tells himself/herself: "I guessed the ending after reading only seven pages." And  "The Skull has a blunt anti-war message, but so have a thousand other short-stories." True and true, but that's not the (ultimate) point of the story.
Yes, the ending is obvious, but...
I personally believe that the conclusion is so undisguised in order to point out to the main question of the story: What message would you have for the world should you know that very soon you will die?
Because in the end that's a question all of us (should) ask...
Sci-fy/time travel short story from the 1950's. A little on the creepy side also.
Dick just killed it! Planning to read some of his other short stories too.
I think Looper was heavily influenced by this book? Maybe.Saw the “twist” coming miles away..
What if Jesus was a modern day prophet, and someone in the future wanted to kill him in order to make the world a better place for the warmakers?
Ok, the story doesn't call the prophet Jesus, but it's clear that's who this tale is modeled after.
Being seen alive after death, the call to non-violence, beard, etc.This isn't too cute by half, but it was obvious early on what the big denouement was going to be.
I suppose it was original in its day, but the idea has been told to death so many times it's no longer original.
There are worse ways to spend your day.
P.K.Dick writes the kind of stuff that keeps science fiction going.
My first Philip K. Dick story. Nice one indeed. I should read few more of his story and before determining who is better, Asimov or Philip?
4/5
He's sent back to the past with the skull of the guy he needs to eliminate before he can cause the ripple that's responsible for their current situation, to happen.The story feels a little jaunted, a little malfunctioning, but it only adds to this mercenary's means to blend in a past world.And he's in for a surprise when he finds out whose skull he's looking for.All in all, a very entertaining short story, with some strong views from Dick himself.War acted to reduce their numbers; like storms and earthquakes and droughts, it was nature's way of eliminating the unfit.Click here for more of my reviews..
E' un racconto di poche pagine che ho letto ieri e che non mi esce dalla testa.Ancora mi chiedo come abbia potuto pensare Dick ad una cosa del genere, perchè è talmente geniale, ma al contempo chiara e semplice, che non si può non rimanere estasiati davanti ad un lavoro del genere.Il lettore si ritrova a riflettere su di sè, su ciò in cui crede, sulle caratteristiche della religione e via dicendo. Il protagonista è profondamente umano e lo si intuisce soprattutto alla fine. Nel momento in cui sta per diventare un effettivo Dio, si dimostra per l'uomo che è.
Of course the twist is completely predictable, but I wonder if that would have been the case in 1952, or if it's predictable to modern readers because Dick was so successful that we now expect the Dickian twist and take pains to discover its foreshadowing?Also, I wonder if Moorcock had read this when he wrote Behold The Man.
“What if he could see this, his own skull, yellow and eroded? Two centuries old. Would he still speak? Would he speak, if he could see it, the grinning, aged skull? What would there be for him to say, to tell the people? What message could he bring?What action would not be futile, when a man could look upon his own aged, yellowed skull?”
Way into the future the government wants to get rid of the First Church and the only way to accomplish that is by sending someone back in time to 1960 to assassinate its founder. Well, in steps this man called Conger, he does the time travel stuff, has a series of adventures, and stumbles upon a strange discovery...
Some nice touches, in the observations and details, and the hint of paranoia at both ends. The ending wasn't a surprise - I figured it out in the first 10 minutes - and generally this just wasn't one of his best. I wasn't overly sold on the narrator either; his voice just didn't have enough variance for me.
More 1950's religious time travel. These short stories honestly reenforce my belief that the 1950's are my favorite decade!
Namely, if I had either read it as a kid or if I had lived closer to the time of the first publication, I probably would have been blown away.
So I stress, the two-star rating (rather than a higher rating) is not directly a comment on the quality of the writing, idea, plotline etc., but only a statement of my own profound wish to go back to a time when these ideas were fresh to me or to the world.
But alas, that time is gone!
I liked this short story.Conger is on a quest to find the original man.Al Kessel did a fine job narrating.“I was voluntarily provided this free review copy audiobook by the author, narrator, or publisher.”
I would guess that this book established the trope that movies like 12 Monkeys built on later. I knew almost immediately what the ending would be, which is why I think it's probably the trope originator. Newer works obfuscate the old trope a bit more. Still, good nonetheless.
I was surprised by this book, because I had forgotten the genre, and did not place the author's name.I think I have a few more by this author in my library, I'll have to check. Delightful short sci-fi story.
An Excellently Crafted Time Travel Yarn!Phillip K Dick is a master of the science fiction genre. Fans of Science Fiction are bound to love this time travel short story! Prepare yourself for a surprise!
MehInteresting short story in the vein of Neil Gaiman, but somewhat less entertaining. Would be better as an illustrated novella.
Absolutely tickled by the story even though I saw the climax coming. Read, re-read, then re-read the final several paragraphs. One of my favorite short stories now.
Not one of Philip K. Dicks best stories but it keeps your attention and manages to seem fresh rather than old.
if you like time travel stories this one is interesting
Fast read but interesting!! Definitely worth the money😎I love Philip K Dick stories. This one was typical with a cool twist at the end. Give it a try.
This is my favorite PKD short story so far. Wow. Just. WOW.
