https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/216330.The_Important_Book
My first experience with this book was with grade 4 students today and I just loved it! Each page chooses something different an apple, grass, the sky etc and talks about the most important thing about it. My colleague used this as a great writing icebreaker for students to then let her know what is the most important thing about them. Great use of repetition and eye catching illustrations.
The important thing about this book is that it is fabulous.
It is true that if I could give this book 6 stars, I would.
And when my daughter is ready to learn how to write, this book will help me explain the difference between the main idea and secondary supporting details and the various places they should go in a well constructed paragraph.
All these things are true, but the important thing about this book is that it is fabulous.
For example, he doesn't think that the most important thing about a daisy is that it's white.
So really, even with my husband's criticism, I think this is a book that keeps on giving.
This is a great book for a discussion starter on points of view and the difference between a big idea and supporting ideas.
Here's one example from the book:The important thing about an apple is that it is round.It is red.You bite it,and it is white inside.I cringed as I read these words.
I realized that these factual statements might differ depending on point of view.
A starving person and an artist would not agree on the 'important things' about an apple.
From the classic writer, illustrator Margaret Wise Brown, comes a book with simple yet important facts.
My instructor read this to us with a group of kids and she made the point of saying during the reading "This is what the author thinks is the most important thing, you might think differently." To me this was perfect because you wouldn't want a child to have a narrow view of what's 'the' most important thing about something because it's highly subjective and open to interpretation.
But then again this could be a good discussion point from this story depending on what you want to do with it.
In general it's a good story that will make kids think.
I was excited to read this book because I completely agreed with the idea of a book that illustrates how to determine the most important aspects in contrast to other characteristics.
Many of the examples, however, I did not agree with.
For many of the items It said that the most important thing was the color or some other outward characteristic, and I think this is a shallow message to send to children.
It might be a fun read for some students because the way it is written is very captivating.
I would only recommend this after talking to students about different perspectives and finding the main idea for themselves.
Finally, the writer repeats “But the important thing about a spoon is that you eat with it.” Other objects that the book describes are daisy, rain, grass, snow, apple, wind, sky, and shoe.
In the end, the writer turns to the reader and concludes that “The important thing about you is that you are you.” This is a picture book because illustrations and text interact to create meaning.
With grades 1-2, this book can be used to teach about main ideas and details (since the book lists facts about objects, it can be used for informational text; ELA 1.2.2.2), describing characteristics/properties of things, and adjectives/descriptive language.
Could use as a jumping-off point for a poetry unit, but most of the things Margaret Wise Brown claims are "important" about objects in the book are pretty subjective. I suppose that would also be something good to discuss in class.. anyway, I recalled not really liking this when it was read to us in a Children's Lit class last year, and now that I've given it a second chance I still am not overly fond of it.
Good grief, is the important thing about a daisy is that it is white? Or the important thing about a grass is that it is green? I think that is a matter of opinion. I do like the message at the end that what is important about YOU is that YOU are YOU!
I really did not like this book, it is repetitive, and annoying, and lacking in creativity but the most important thing about this book is that I didn't like it.
I'm afraid this book wouldn't pass today's ideological censors.
See my review for Hailstones and Halibut Bones if you want to know why I think this book is bad and stupid and boring. https://www.goodreads.com/review/edit...
Mommy: 3 Stars. I think my expectations were too high based on author’s previous books, but a good book nonetheless.Maxwell:3 Stars: I think it should make kindergarteners go up to 2nd grade. That’s what George’s mom said when George was in kindergarten.
I can not believe I never read this book before.
It's absolutely fantastic!
What a teaching tool.
Basically, we read The Important Book to our class....
and end up making a page for our mothers just like the book's pattern.
I used a selection of cool glittered scrapbook paper, 3d stickers, and pictures I had taken of each student and each student with their mother to make a scrapbook page - wall hanging thingymabab.
The moms loved it.
The kids loved making it.
This is a wonderful book that I adapted to use for a writing project with my fourth graders.
The book highlights the important characteristics of certain items.
Students use the same format to highlight who/what is important to them in their lives.
The stories are touching.****I have been using this book throughout my career to teach characteristics/properties.
Other than relying too much on color, this is an excellent book.
Students mimic Wise's style.
Some years students describe themselves, others they select an object.Wise finds several properties of an object and then identifies one as the most important.
The formula is simple.
I like the idea of using this book for what Jeff Anderson calls "sentence stalking." Give students the structure, and try their hand at their own complex sentence construction. The book itself is repetitive to the point of tedium, but that could work in a teacher's favor in getting the rhythm and structure of the model sentences in a student's head so they can create their own.
I like the idea and the pictures and the repetition, and maybe it's a good way to discuss opinions and that written words aren't always to be accepted as true. Unless we accept that the color of something, for example, is *the* important thing about it.
After two pages my son was groaning "This book is so boring!" I tend to agree. Not a big fan of how simplistic it is. There's more to things than their color, etc.
The Important Book tells the reader what is important about everyday things they see, such as the wind, rain, daisies, and the sky, it even includes a nice little surprise at the end.
The one complaint I have with this book is that I don't necessarily agree with the author's opinions on why these things are important.
Is the important thing about a daisy that it is white?
Teaching Idea: This is an excellent book for teaching main idea.
Throughout the book, there is a repeating pattern of a stating the main idea, providing rich supporting details, and then restating the main idea.
Part of my children's literature reading project.Simply described, the book points out a number of extremely common objects and determines that each has various properties, but one stands out about each one.
e.g., the important thing about the sky, whatever else you may say about it is that it's always there.The value of such a book IMO is that it is a springboard to discussion about observation and analysis.
Children may agree or even disagree with the points made.
Is the important thing about a daisy really that it's always white?
This strikes me as a useful thing.
I like the idea of listening to why people think something is important.
The reason it is important could change, depending on the circumstances too.
I think more important than the reasons one person says something is important, is to find out why they think that is the important thing about that object.
Could be a could addition to a lesson on elaborative detail and descriptive writing (although, the poems aren't very elaborative).
Could focus on using the most important descriptors.
Could also be used for teaching main ideas.I've heard a few teachers rave about this book.
"The important thing about The Important Book is...." LOL
It ends with talking about you and why you are important.
The major theme in this is that we are all important no matter what and also what makes up “you”.
My personal thoughts on this book are yes, it is an easy read for teachers to read to students but it has a deeper meaning.
It wants kids to know that they as individuals are just as important as everything else in the world.
I recommend this book for teachers to ready it out loud with the whole class.
They can really dive in and dig deep about the importance of who we are.
While there are some aspects of the book that I felt have not held up over time, there is genius in those pages. When I taught writing to 4th graders it helped kick off discussion on elaborating and describing with purpose. It is because of those wonderful discussions in the classroom that I have such a fondness for this book. It is a truly important book in my life. Thank you Marion Dearman for bringing it into my classroom and my life.
I've never been excited about Margaret Wise Brown books and this book is no different. Interesting concept but I didn't like her "important" things. I think the kindergartners in our classroom did a better job of zeroing in on the important things. (for example, "The important thing about the sun is that it is hot. It shines. It is yellow. But the important thing about the sun is that it is hot.")
The Important Book is a book of poetry all written with the same structure. It explores the most important thing about everyday objects and thing, like grass, an apple or a spoon. This book is a 2nd grade reading level. I think this book could be used in many classrooms for teaching about how describing is used in the text we read and in our writing. It is also a wonderful book for teaching poetry and writing structure.
This book has a good concept (identifying what is important about something) but the execution is terrible. The author lists various qualities about different things but then seems to pick something random from the list to conclude "what's important is.....". WRONG. The book should have either left each conclusion as a question, such as "What do you think is most important about this?" or given clues to how one decides which quality is most important. As written, the book gives children the very wrong impression that what's important about quite a few things is its color!
Simple yet cute book with a pattern throughout the pages. Ms. Wise Brown used simple, everyday objects to relay her message that she tied up at the end. It's sweet and simple, yet profound and a great reminder -- there are many attributes to all things and they each have something important about them, as do people. A great book and a message I need to remember and to share with my kids as well.
I love how this book explains the qualities of different things. It especially highlights the good things. It is a great segway into a project. Students can make a page about the most important thing about themselves.
This is a great book that will make children and readers think about the importance of everyday objects they use. The idea of using a spoon and why is it helpful? Six Traits: Presentation, IdeaLexile: AD460L AR Level: 2.9
DRA Level: 24Lexile: AD580LApplicable Traits: sentence fluency.This was a good book to introduce children to sentence fluency but it was quite boring. It might be hard to get students' attention at certain spots.
