https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/74537.Someone_Like_You
Marvelous surreal stories (several first appeared in the NYer). Dahl insinuates a lethal twist into everyday life. A wife wants to kill her husband ("Lamb to the Slaughter"): she whacks him with a chunk of frozen meat and then cooks the weapon as the police arrive.Spinning comic impudence : In "My Lady Love, My Dove," a snobby bridge-playing married duo plant a mike in the guest room of visiting couple and learn their secret bridge-winning codes. ~~ Forget bridge.  I've always wanted to do this.
I'm not going to write a long review of this book. All I'll say is that I love strange and quirky tales that explore the way human beings are and I consider Roald Dahl to be THE master of such tales. I hope that "Someone Like You" isn't really about you or me, but I'm afraid it very well might be. I'm not going to claim this is the best short story collection ever written, but it can't be far off the mark!
Excellent, creepy, and bizarre short stories from an author known for his off-kilter children stories.
So, if you're familiar with those, take that weirdness to an adult level that borders on the horrific, and you have the genius that is Roald Dahl.
I also enjoyed "The Man from the South," which I was unaware Quentin Tarantino used for his short film in the movie "Four Rooms." What I like most about these stories is that they all have a twist at the end, that upends the trajectory of the narrative, but makes them all the more satisfying.
Alas it went nowhere and I literally felt like I had wasted forty minutes of my life reading it.The one thing I will say about this collection though, is that even when the stories are dull it is clear that Roald Dahl could have done some amazing adult novels.
The writing standard in this collection was spot on, the plots and characters just lacked any sort of direction or development due to the length of the stories.It was clear that Roald Dahl was trying to make a point about human beings and how they react in certain situations, and in that sense you could really see this in every single story.
Brilliant brilliant brilliant. Roald Dahl is the King of the Macabre. He is the Charles Dickens of the 20th Century, with a sense of humour that can ONLY be described as deliciously wicked. This collection of short stories is decidedly grown-up, but reading it I often found myself sniggering like a little child. My favorite stories by far were Lamb to the Slaughter and Taste, I believe they were the first two, although they were all darkly humorous and very entertaining.
I will say that the stories were well-written but the conclusions were disappointing.
The endings just fizzled out and left it up to the reader to determine what really happened.
If I wanted to determine the ending, I'd write my own darn novel.
All in all I liked the outside of the book better than anything on the inside.
Most of the stories were 1-2 stars at best though there were a few I liked (regardless of the crappy ending) Lamb to the Slaughter, Dip in the Pool, Skin, Poison, The Sound Machine and The Great Automatic Grammatisator.
“Someone Like You”Written by Roald DahlReview written by Diana Iozzia “Someone Like You” is a collection of short stories that are comical, dark, and sinister. When I stumbled across this collection, I was excited to see how Roald Dahl’s writing would be for adults, and I wasn’t disappointed. Funnily enough, I recognized some of the short stories from the television program, Alfred Hitchcock Presents and The Alfred Hitchcock Hour. The stories in this collection include:“Taste”“Lamb to the Slaugh
“Someone Like You”Written by Roald DahlReview written by Diana Iozzia	“Someone Like You” is a collection of short stories that are comical, dark, and sinister.
The stories in this collection include:“Taste”“Lamb to the Slaughter”“Man from the South”“The Soldier”“My Lady Love, My Dove”“Dip in the Pool”“Galloping Foxley”“Skin”“Poison”“The Wish”“Neck”“The Sound Machine”“Nunc Dimittis”“The Great Automatic Grammatizator”“Claud’s Dog” novella	My favorites in this collection are: “Taste”, “Skin”, “Neck” and “The Sound Machine”.
“The Sound Machine” follows a man who creates a fantastic machine that can observe the sounds that plants and trees make.
As a personal fan of short story collections, I thoroughly enjoyed this.
Roald Dahl'ın ilk kez büyükler için yazılmış kitabını okudum. 50'li yılların ingiltere'sinde geçiyor çoğu öykü. üçkağıtçılara, kötü kalpli zenginlere, hayvan düşmanlarına nefreti satır aralarında da olsa öykülerinde de hissediliyor. kitaptaki ilk öyküler daha çok şaşırtmacalı biterken, sonlara doğru daha olgun bir tarz benimsiyor. yazıldığı yılları bilmiyorum ama muhtemelen arada fark var.ve ayrıca bu kitabın da baskısı yok, can yayınları roald dahl'ın büyük kitaplarını basmayı düşünmüyor sanırım.
I've basically been a fan since I learned to read (it's been a good 13 years, Mr Dahl) but I had yet to explore his more 'adult' works.
This, coupled with the fact that I was told it was 'very disturbing' (I'm a little twisted), gave me exceptionally high hopes for the book - despite my general disdain for short stories.
As always, Dahl's writing was exceptional.
That comes from the 5/5 for writing style.At the end of the day, I'm glad I read this book.
Someone Like You is a fantastic collection of short stories, and unlike the work that Mr. Dahl is most well-known for, it’s definitely not one for kids.See, the stories are dark, and I like that – subject matter includes a bet in which a man could lose his finger, a man who’s almost driven mad by his sound machine (which records even the cries of plants and trees when they’re uprooted), and even a man who’s terrified that he’s about to be bitten by a poisonous spider.
It’s worth tracking down a copy for your collection.
They predominantly ended with a predictable cliff hanger or an ironic ending, telling you that there really was no reason to read the story because what the person believed at the start was actually completely wrong (Galloping Foxley, Nunc Dimittis).The strange this is why I gave it 3 stars (representing "I like it)...
I think I am in a strange conundrum that I still like this collection of stories BECAUSE they infuriate me and annoy me so much...So at some time in the future I will read more of these and get infuriated again...
I went into this expecting some Tales-From-The-Crypt-style short stories with twist endings.
I had no idea that one of the most classic Alfred Hitchcock Presents episodes was an adaptation from a story in this book (and further research told me that numerous Dahl stories served as the basis for episodes of AHP and subsequent imitator shows that followed).
My only complaint is that several of the "twist" endings in these stories turned out not to be twists at all...
Fortunately AHP changed the twist-less ending to some of these stories for television and delivered the expected twist ending.
I keep forgetting how much I enjoy Dahl's adult short stories.
This was picked up for $1 as a library extra - fantastic value.
A few of these are familiar to me and there are some of his most well known stories here.
Some are short and sharp, others convoluted and devious.
I particularly liked the predictable but grossly satisfying Nunc Dimittis and the Great Automatic Grammatizator, poking fun at the publishing world.In fact, I liked the book so much I went out and bought the first volume of his collected short stories.
A great collection of macabre, heartless and (blackly) comic tales. Any adults who still re-read his more popular children's stories thinking that's all there is should be made to investigate this.The Penguin Modern Classic's edition I have also includes a rather pedestrian forward by Dom Joly which is a shame both for this collection (that deserved something more) and for Joly himself. Anyone that comes up with Stupid & Son's removals has a brain that is capable of being far more engaging.
Having whet my appetite for Roald Dahl’s Adult novels with “Switch Bitch” I immediately found myself reaching out for the next one.I was going to exhausted the entire collection beginning with “My Uncle Oswald”; given that Oswald’s character in “Switch Bitch” was most unforgettable and prominent, I just had to read it, devour it!.
The irony kills me when he uses the word, amusing, witty of roald dahl, coz he puts himself in that situation as a writer (page 200)“Rummins”As the story draws to an end it is very sad; as the old mans fait wasn’t in his hand.
Roald Dahl… toľké očakávania…. A toľké sklamanie….. Každá poviedka má čosi do seba, je niečím zaujímavá, tak prečo tá mágia nefunguje ako celok?Každý z príbehov odhaľuje ľudské chyby i črty v krajšom i menej peknom šate, jazyk i opis sú skvelé, len akosi na mňa nefungujú. A to všetci vedia, že som anglofil :)Prvá veta:V ten večer sme u Mikea Schofielda v Londýne sedeli pri stole šiesti: Mike so ženou a dcérou, moja žena a ja a istý Richard Pratt. Posledná veta:Bol čas pobrať sa domov.
Bloody brilliant. I had no idea Dahl wrote short stories for adults. This collection oozes with darkness, barely concealed menace and black humour. Of course I enjoyed some tales more than others, but all had a dark sparkle of wit and Dahl's fiendish sense of fun.
There are short story writers... and there's Roald Dahl.
*3,5
Yet even in the book’s more unpleasant moments, we sense the fun that the writer is having, with stories such as The Great Automatic Grammatizator recalling the wilder creative moments found within Danny Champion of the World or Charlie and the Chocolate Factory.I think that the true beauty of Someone Like You comes from the way in which the narrator draws the reader in, speaking to them confidentially, so often in the guise of the detached observer, so that we are moved to a kind of complicity even when an act of true repugnance is taking place.
Taste  >> A bet goes too far between a man desperate to acquire a reputation of one who has refined culture and a man whose expert senses can guess the wine being served.
Would you be willing to bet the hand of your only daughter in marriage if you're almost perfectly sure that the sommelier can't possibly guess the wine (it's year and vineyard from whence it originated) you've presented for tasting?
The Great Automatic Grammatizator  >> What if the creativity and imagination that goes into producing stories be bottled up and sold?
Roald Dahl didn't disappoint me.This book consists of 15 short stories, some are very cool and funny, some are average.
This was the first story in my version of the book and it pretty much introduced Roald Dahl's style in short stories - a funny, slowly unraving story with an unexpected, witty ending.
(view spoiler)[I didn't think that you can kill with a frozen lamb and then eat it, very cunning indeed.
(hide spoiler)] I wonder how the story would continue in the real life.
(hide spoiler)] 4/5My Lady Love, My Dove - I think Roald Dahl liked to bet.
Roald Dahl is a British novelist, short story writer and screenwriter of Norwegian descent, who rose to prominence in the 1940's with works for both children and adults, becoming one of the world's bestselling authors.
Having said that, in this collection each story had distinctive characters and unique plots so that each short story stood out from the one before; eliminating much confusion.
Overall, an enjoyable read but not on a par with the children's book I used to enjoy by Dahl.Would I recommend it?
Fans of Dahl's children's novels may find this collection interesting, if it's the first of his adult books they've read.
2.5*Some amusing tales but others really were hard work, or had little storyline.
Someone Like You clocks in as a solid collection of decidedly adult short stories by  Roald Dahl.
The rest of the stories, well, I didn't actively dislike a single one and several do bear mentioning although I can't recall the titles.All in all this is a good collection, but not a great one.
I'd highly recommend "Lamb to the Slaughter" to anyone, but the remainder of the stories are a bit more difficult to pin down.
I'd say this book is best if the aforementioned story gets a laugh from you, and if it doesn't...
I was lucky enough to be chosen as a giver, and I chose to give away copies of Someone Like You. I chose this book because I love Roald Dahl's writing, and because I think that his adult writing is hugely under-read, and (therefore) hugely underrated.
Every copy I had to give away was taken, and I hope that some of the people who took them away will love Skin, Neck or The Great Automatic Grammatizator as much as I do.
all i know is that the word was deliciously evocative of all those things i could feel so viscerally but could not articulate clearly in words: the eerie, gruesome, sometimes ghoulishly humorous stories that kept me up at night but still made me want to open the book for more...)both patricia highsmith and roald dahl are masters of dread and apprehension.
For me, after that, it was like the awful moment when you see a child running out into the road and a car is coming and all you can do is shut your eyes tight and wait until the noise tells you it has happened.
This is a very strange but very good read, which is typical Dahl style but adult content.This book is a series of short stories compiled together in one book.
I'm a massive fan of Roald Dahl and have been since a child, and although the content is nothing like the stories from my childhood, it has some typical Dahl traits.
I really enjoyed this book as it was easy to pick up and read in short sections, with each chapter being a complete story.
It was also really interesting as it was totally unexpected, with each story having a different style and strange ending which took you by surprise.
Over the years he has published a number of collections of short stories, a genre in which he excels.
There are so many good writers around, it's hard to get to them all, but it's worth finding "Someone Like You" for a number of reasons.
First of all, you might like Dahl, in which case you'll be set for quite a while (as long as you can find his books).
There's no doubt in my mind that we'll be reading Dahl for many years to come, if we've got any sense.Comment
Dahl is best known as a children's writer but his work for adults is also extremely accomplished.
Although these stories are perhaps a little long-winded in the sense that it generally takes ten or twenty pages to deliver a single twist ending, Dahl's style is crystal clear, cool and very effective.
Although his parents were Norwegian, Dahl was born and raised in Wales and in my opinion is the best writer Wales has ever produced, better than Dylan Thomas and even superior to Arthur Machen.
And yes, the twist endings aren't especially 'unexpected' but the stories are good anyway...
