https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/317404.The_Outermost_House
I keep this book on my nightstand when I need to transport myself from this world to the natural beauty Beston describes.
How many of us would just like to "check out" for awhile?
Beston, like Thoreau, did this for a year and chronicled all he saw and felt.
They walked the beach each night, 365 days per year no matter what the weather conditions were.
Their walks averaged 6-7 miles a night.
They walked in Northeasters' and in gales looking toward the sea to find any boat that might be in distress.
The Outermost House has long been recognized as a classic of nature writing.In 1925, Henry Beston built a two room cottage on the outer bank of Cape Cod as a vacation retreat.
In September of 1926, he went to spend two weeks there, but "The fortnight ending, I lingered on, and as the year lengthened into autumn, the beauty and the mystery of this earth and the outer sea so possessed and held me that I could not go." He left the beach in the fall of 1927, with several notebooks full of material, but no publishable manuscript.
Poetry is as necessary to comprehension as science. It is as impossible to live without reverence as it is without joy And what delightful Poetry it was! Not mere wordplay and expression of feelings, but an extremely astute and microscopic observation and description of the very molecules,the very atoms, the very quarks of nature.Henry Beston wasn't someone whose idea of outdoors is revelry in a crowded beach or DSLR photography in a zoo or botanical garden.His idea of outdoors was to live alon
Remote from universal nature and living by complicated artifice, man in civilization surveys animals through the glass of his knowledge and sees thereby a feather magnified and the whole image in distortion.
If this book was relevant in 1928 and became a classic, it should only be a million times more relevant now.
When I told my sister I was reading this book on a recent trip to Cape Cod, she asked me how many times I’d read it.
However, an unusual feature of this book is that you can open it at random, read any chapter, and it will tell a complete story.
I have read many chapters this way throughout the years.
This is the most poetic book ever written about Cape Cod. Henry Beston is a careful observer of nature and worthy scientific theorist.
The world happens everyday, everywhere.
We're often forgetful whence we came and we easily dismiss that seemingly distant background which is always there – nature.
We follow the old rhythm of the earth as it follows the Sun, and before us nature shines: glorious, beautiful, generous, bountiful.
And as it happens, we see it unfolding, as it should be, as it always does, bewildering with an elemental and transcendental beauty.
Nature becomes the main character of a novel without narrative, where people are but silhouettes in that greater background where everything happens, everyday, everywhere.
Originally published in 1928, and still in print today, this is perhaps one of the early examples of literary nature writing, an account of a year spent living among the sand dunes of the great peninsula of Cape Cod, living closer to a rough sea nature in all her aspects than most humans normally do and observing all that passes through all the senses during that time.Having planned to stay two weeks in his house on the sand dunes, his fascination with the changes of the dunes, the tides, the sky, the migration of birds and butterflies keep him captivated, so he keeps extending his stay, observing the minutiae of life and nature, writing it into this book.I first came across the title while reading one of my favourite nature writing books by Rachel Carson, Under the Sea Wind, in which she mentions this as one of her inspirations.
Cape Cod is my happy place and my best friend gave me this book for Christmas.
It is an old memoir/nature book written by a man who chose to live on the dunes of Eastham for a year.
I read the book in one sitting and it transported me to the sand, surf, wind, and light that I so love.
His descriptions and powers of observation are amazing.
He tried to depict all that he experienced: listening to the sound of the ocean, watching deer playing on a beach, witnessing men dying in a shipwreck, decoding a myriad of birdsong, and chronicling the smells wafting around him.
I first read this book in 1968.
Since then (altho I have my original copy which sold for $1.45) I have purchased dozens to give away.
It is ostensibly a nature, wildlife book that rivals Walden.
However, I found it to be closer to poetry than any other prose I have read.
Henry Beston's family is (was) very literary.
His wife, Elizabeth Coatsworth was a wonderful writer and their daughter, Kate Barnes, was once Poet Laureate of Maine.
She is elderly and still lives here in Maine.
I recently went to the Cape and was unable to find the marker where once the Outermost House stood.
This book has been compared to Walden, but it's so much better. Beston's descriptions of the sun, the waves, the sand and the birds made me dream of rustic life on the coast. His tales of shipwrecks and the "surfmen" who walked the beach as watchmen, were fascinating.
as I read this book my mind was totally living Beston's year in that cabin on the beach.It is amazing to notice all the changes in the enviornment throughout the year when separated from populous man and his harried life and man made creations. I read this book about once a year.
It is beautifully written and Beston makes it easy to close your eyes and feel the ocean spray on your face as you read along.Having married young and being almost immediately blessed with one child that eventually grew to become a family of 6 and the often overwhelming busyness that accompanies a family of 6 in modern times, simply the thought of doing what this author did makes me take in a deep breath, sigh and think, "ahhh, how wonderful!" Then, I think about how antsy I get when I somehow, unexpectedly end up with an entire day to myself and I wonder if I have what it takes to be able to live a year like Beston did.
Who says there aren't any more Henry David Thoreaus? Okay, granted, Beston wrote this in the late 1920's, but still...An incredibly fascinating description of the daily observations and musings of someone living on the far eastern tip of Cape Cod. His keen eye and enchanting retelling of nature's annual cycles is beautiful in and of itself. But what I found most incredible was his fiancee's insistance on his doing this (living alone for 1 year in this "shack," in order to complete this book) before she would marry him. A worthy wife indeed...
This book should be required reading in every school. It is that good; the focus on the life of the Cape over a year is captivating. I never realized descriptions of birds, and oceans could be so varied and expressive.
What a lovely book.
Simply beautiful, contemplative writing.
If you're coming for a story, you won't find it.
There's a theme but it is a grand theme and certainly not plot driven.
The pleasure here is in the reading, and putting yourself into the world that Henry Beston illuminates as he spends a year on the beach of Cape Cod. It took me quite a while to get through it because it is not a page turner.
Instead, one wants to linger on the pages, to see and taste what Beston is describing.
This is going on my inspirational shelf of beautiful writing.
It's merely one man's year of watching birds and fish migrate in and out of cape cod, the bare conversations he had with the others who lived out there, and mainly his wanderings among the shores.
Do no dishonour to the earth lest you dishonour the spirit of man.
To all who love her, who open to her the doors of their veins, she gives of her strength, sustaining them with her own measureless tremor of dark life.
For the gifts of life are the earth's and they are given to all, and they are the songs of birds at daybreak, Orion and the Bear, and dawn seen over ocean from the beach."
I expected to hate this book.
I should have hated this book.
The Outermost House is a book about nothing; reading it is like watching a porn movie with no nudity in it.
Henry Beston lives by himself in a house on Cape Cod for a year.
That is as much intrigue as you will find in The Outermost House.
Beston goes on about birds for about 45 pages.
But Beston writes pretty.
I don't give a damn about birds and sand; I am as apathetic towards nature as it gets, and still I made it through this book with a positive opinion of it.
21We need another and a wiser and perhaps a more mystical concept of animals.
Remote from universal nature, and living by complicated artifice, man in civilization surveys the creature through the glass of his knowledge, and sees thereby a feather magnified and the whole image in distortion.
We patronize them for their incompleteness, for their tragic fate of having taken form so far below ourselves.
For the animal shall not be measured by man.
In a world older and more complete than ours they move finished and complete, gifted with extensions of the senses we have lost or never attained, living by voices we shall never hear.

This is an amazing book with a timeless appeal.
This is very much a sensory book rather than something that is plot-based or even character based.
That is, unless you count the sea, birds, and all other forms of life and nature that are described so well in this book.Coincidentally, Orion of the Dunes just came out November 2016 (I may have that title slightly wrong) but it is a biography of Henry Beston.
As "The Outermost House" brought up so many questions in my book group, we are looking forward to seeing if the biography answers some of our questions.
Beston writes with a passion matched only by his respect for nature; for every beauty there is a struggle, a tragedy. His celebration of a year on Cape Cod includes weather, seasons, ornithology, the townsfolk and Coast Guard employees, reveling in the strengths and pride in all equally. This is not Walden; Beston does not seek to isolate himself from people, but writes of the whole experience life and nature has to offer. The writing is more like a journal, as it is not bogged down in too much science, and could appeal to a very wide audience.
Henry Beston's description of his year on Cape Cod's Great Beach reminds me of Aldo Leopold's "Sand County Almanac" and John Janovy's "Dunwoody Pond," which is high praise. Beston shares Leopold's and Janovy's thoughtfulness, elegenat writing, and natural concerns. "The outermost House" will be worth rereading.
Instead, the book is a fairly straightforward, if poetic, chronicle of his year on "the great beach," focusing especially on his experience of the sea and of animals.
The spirit Pan also plays this role for Kenneth Grahame--an atavistic connection to the countryside and nature in a land that has mostly moved on.There are not a lot of people in the book, but Beston is great at writing about them too.
One of my favorite parts of the book is Beston's description of how, after a wreck, people would show up on the beach to quietly take away anything useful that could be salvaged.
What a lovely little book. Lots of quotes I want to post, but I've got some things to finish first.WATCH THIS SPACE!
Hands down, the best evocation of the seaside I've ever read. Beston's prose is pure poetry. I have to read it in small doses, too rich for gorging. A book I re-read for its beauty.
One of the best books I’ve ever read.
I've been listening to this while driving back and forth to the Cape. The language is beautiful, and now I'm going to buy the book and read it, to really feel the language!
With lights and ever more lights, we drive the holiness and beauty of night back to the forests and the sea...Learn to reverence night and to put away the vulgar fear of it, for, with the banishment of night from the experience of man, there vanishes as well a religious emotion, a poetic mood, which gives depth to the adventure of humanity.""Do no dishonor to the earth lest you dishonor the spirit of man.
Touch the earth, love the earth, honor the earth, her plains, her valleys, her hills, and her seas; rest your spirit in her solitary places.
Lovely book and stunning example of just being, and living in the present moment.
They are not brethren, they are not underlings; they are other nations, caught with ourselves in the net of life and time, fellow prisoners of the splendour and travail of the earth." "The world today is sick to its thin blood for lack of elemental things, for fire before the hands, for water welling from the earth, for air, for the dear earth itself underfoot.
In my world of beach and june these elemental presences lived and had their being..."
I bought this book years ago on the recommendation of my father, had never read it and finally listened to it.
I particularly liked his descriptions of waves.
So glad I finally read this and look forward to re-reading it.
Thanks, Dad.Somewhere in ocean, perhaps a thousand miles and more from this beach, the pulse beat of earth liberates a vibration, an ocean wave...Once created, the wave or the arc of a wave begins its journey through the sea.
So it goes night and day, and will go till the secret heart of earth strikes out its last slow beat and the last wave dissolves upon the last forsaken shore.
It's beautiful and stirring how a writer can take a reader into their experience of nature the way Beston does.
How I wish I could enjoy the vast, star-filled sky for an entire year from the vantage point of the great beach on Cape Cod!
And when I go back to the cape this year I will most certainly view the birds with new eyes.
It's hard to imagine how raw and untamed the natural world was, and how far we've come with navigational aides.
