https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/820863.Henry_and_Mudge_The_First_Book
I must spend a Saturday reflecting on a favorite early transitional chapter book from my childhood.
I read so many of these as a child, and I have most of them for my own classroom.
The characters and stories are appealing to young kids, and it's a nice step up from the typical picture book.
The chapters and longer length help reading confidence tremendously, and the illustrations and larger text keep kids grounded enough to what they're used to with books.
The very first one that started it all is cute story that introduces readers to the two main characters.
I remember reading Henry and Mudge books as a kid, but I did not remember any specific details.
This is what made it so fun to read this chapter book.
It was like being a kid and reading it all over again.Read Aloud: This is a cute short chapter book and so it would be easy to read in a day with children during reading time.
A good journaling activity would be to ask if there is anything in their lives similar to what Henry went through when he got Mudge.
After each chapter, you could have them stop and journal a paragraph or two on what they think is going to happen next.
First sentence: Henry had no brothers and no sisters.
"I want a brother," he told his parents.
"I want to live on a different street," he told his parents.
"I want to have a dog," he told his parents.
Then they looked at each other.Premise/plot: Henry and his dog Mudge star in Cynthia Rylant's early chapter book series.
"Every day when Henry woke up, he saw Mudge's big head.
And every day when Mudge woke up, he saw Henry's small face."I don't know that it would be fair to compare Henry and Mudge with the Mr. Putter and Tabby series.
They are actually some of the books that helped me become a reader.
That said, I would definitely use these in my classroom because I think they are a great tool that teachers can use to help their students learn to read.
They are always very fun plot lines that the students will want to read.Purpose: A big component of these books are character development.
Being such a big series of books, students have the opportunity to grow with these two characters.
The illustrations are always light and fun, which will tie into the students want to read more of them.
I'm not sure I've ever read a Henry and Mudge Book before. This one is so sweet! I will definitely keep these in mind for when my son starts to read.
Even though it was a pretty basic chapter book it still gave beginning readers confidence and the story lines were cute as well.
There are pretty detailed pictures on each page allowing readers to use the images to help follow the meaning of the story if they are confused at some point.
These books create a basic story line for children to follow and understand which could be great to create questions on or activities requiring them to retell some part of the story.
The humor within this book would help the students pay attention and enjoy reading it.
It is also an easy book to read, because there are only about 2-3 sentences on each page, which will help students follow the story without it being too difficult.
If the students like this book, they can be encouraged to read the next book in the series, which will encourage the child to read more.
For narrative: literary elements that could be taught using the book This could be used as an introduction for students to plot and setting.
The feelings of isolation and lonesomeness that Henry expresses are powerful and extremely well written, though simple and straightforward.
They become fast friends and Henry is a different child with Mudge by his side.
Mudge does not like to be away from Henry and when he ventures out to look for him one day, he gets lost.
The feelings of loneliness return when Mudge is lost.
Henry decides that he must go and look for his dog.
Henry and Mudge have the sweetest reunion.
Henry is perhaps a little better at expressing himself than most children his age.
Henry asks his parents for a dog and to his surprise is given a very small puppy he names Mudge.
We follow the two and watch as Mudge not only becomes a huge, happy, and loving Dog but Henry’s Best friend.
Stevenson’s illustrations also give the comfort of a picture book to early readers.
I can remember reading many Henry and Mudge books as a child.
Their exciting tales not only made me want and enjoy reading but also made me want a dog like Mudge.
I really liked this book.
Early chapter book.
Loved the description of Henry's lemony hair, milky mouth, soapy ears, and chocolate fingers as Mudge breathes him in!
Cynthia really tells a wonderful, heartwarming story.
The love between Henry and Mudge is so real.
when he has Mudge to all to school with you can tell that he is more at ease because he stops thinking of bullies and thinks instead of ice cream.
The words do tell the story and the illustrations are complements to the words.
I admired this book very much and have read it several times over!
I've heard so many good things about this book and that it is hugely popular. Perhaps I had too many expectations, then. I'm not sure I was completely dazzled, but it is a very sweet story told in simple words (good for beginning read-on-my-own readers) about the friendship between a boy and his dog.
Title: Henry and Mudge – The First BookAuthor: Cynthia RylantIllustrator: Sucie StevensonGenre: Juvenile Fiction, Transitional Chapter BookTheme(s): Dog, Fiction, PlayOpening line/sentence: “Henry had no brothers and no sisters.
Although the text in these first two books in her series about Henry and his dog Mudge does not have the poetic lilt of some of her other picture books, her depiction of the relationships of boy, dog and family and of Henry’s thoughts and emotions raise these above other similar stories.
The pictures simply guide the reader visually as the text directs the story.Consideration of Instructional Application:For an activity, I would have my students identify the parts in the book that they believe are the beginning, middle and end.
Little did they know he would grow to 3 feet tall and 180 pounds.Henry used to be afraid to walk to school worrying "about tornadoes, ghosts, biting dogs, and bullies." But when Mudge walks him to school he "thinks about vanilla ice cream, rain, rocks and good dreams."Rylant divides the story into chapters written from each character's point of view.
Henry walks through the same fields, crosses the same stream, and wanders through the forest calling Mudge's name.
Henry and Mudge do everything together, but now when Henry goes to school, Mudge stays at home and doesn't wander away.The illustrations by Sucie Stevenson are colorful and childlike, capturing a boy and his dog perfectly.
Henry and Mudge: The First Book by Cynthia Rylant.
This story is about a little boy named Henry who was feeling lonely and wanted a dog.
The whole story is about all of the adventures Henry and his dog went through.
There are many different stories about Henry and his dog.
I think this story is easy for children to read and comprehend of what is going on.
This story is also skillful for children.
I would use this story to teach about responsibility and things that are important to someone, since Mudge is extremely important to Henry
It allows young readers get a taste of reading a longer book.
It is a tale of a young boy named Henry and his first dog Mudge.
It allows the reader to see the relationship between them both.
They are simple and allow the reader to focus more on the words on the page than the illustrations.
The illustrations are rather small and are not the main focus of the story.
It allows the reader to see what is being described, however it does not take away from the importance of the words on the page.
The artwork was awkward as well; I was terrified of that zombie-like dog.
It was treacly and a little insipid for the 5 to 7 year olds that I know.
My six year old laughed at it and she was clearly being derisive.
That being said, it was a very sweet story and "a boy and his dog" is always a heart warmer.
I'm sure this will not be a popular review, especially as the series was and is, clearly, so popular; but I repeat that I was not impressed and have no desire to delve further into the lives of Henry and Mudge.
This is great for beginner readers- not many words to give struggle, but enough to make them feel like they're working. The story is actually remarkably sweet- I and any other dog lover would probably love it. My one "issue" was that the art feels pretty dated and would probably turn me off if I wasn't pushing myself to read these "classics." I'm wondering if kids today are okay with the art style- if they think it looks "too old," or if they are forced to read it so they are rewarded with the story and end up liking it.
I've read a couple other Henry and Mudge books and have always liked them and recommended them to new readers. But I had not read the very first Henry and Mudge book until today. It's so funny! As a dog lover myself, I can really relate to the funny, adorable things Mudge does and to the special bond between a child and his dog. Cynthia Rylant's books are beginner books at their finest!
Henry and Mudge books are a great start to chapter reading. The stories are fun and who doesn't love a big old floppy dog who gets into all kinds of predicaments. Good early chapter books for second grade readers. My new chapter book readers loved the stories. Great book to teach predictions, main idea, and compare and contrast using text connections.
This is a fun one and I'm kind of curious to read more in the series; which I think says something for a beginners book. Enjoy!Reading Level: K - 2nd gradesCleanliness: a boy sometimes worries about scary things likes ghosts (shows a picture also).
I was always curious about how Henry acquired Mudge and this book tells that story. I love this series and this book in particular is so endearing. It is a wonderful example of the bonding that can happen between a boy and a dog. A great book!
Read this to my first graders - hoping that they will become interested in the series.
It was good win the boy named henry got a dog he wanted a Perfect dog and he got a perfect dog and he was so happy he . took the dog home and they had fun
My three year old loved this book.
A great read aloud with my son. We took turns reading to each other. This series is filled with pleasant stories about a boy and his dog.
I love dogs so much! I loved to read about how Henry would take care of Mudge. I also loved all the adventures they would go on together!
A cute beginning chapter book. It appealed to my second grader because he is also an only child.
My second grader in my resource room loved it. He can’t wait to read the second book.
I adore this fun series about a boy and his big sweet dog.
Let me read
