https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/36236125-invisible-monsters
Quite possibly the most fucked up piece of literature I’ve ever read, this novel is a brilliantly executed train wreck from beginning to end.
It made me want to blow my own jaw off...but in a good way.
The book's like a really hard-core Swedish massage.
Not only do the characters suffer FOR beauty, they suffer BECAUSE of beauty, and that's a powerful comment on current American society.
Palahniuk shows off masterful writing all the way through, allowing the reader to both like and dislike, agree and disagree with all of the characters.
He lays pathos out before his readers and expects us to have the capacity and intelligence to simultaneously exalt and suffer, and that's powerful stuff.
If you don't have a firm grip on your sanity, a good sense of humor, and an expansive sense of the ridiculousness that is humanity, don't bother with this book.
I'm too old for this stuff. Shocking doesn't do it for me alone, and he works SO VERY HARD at being vulgar and violent and crass. Don't get me wrong; those are three things that can make for a great story. But it was so unrelenting and contrived, and not as funny as it was supposed to be. There were some clever turns of phrase, and it wasn't entirely unenjoyable, but I was not really impressed.
I really enjoyed Invisible Monsters and it was the first Chuck Palahniuk book I read.
It was such a shocking book to me that I loved every page of it.
Of course, since, I have read Chuck Palahniuk books that I could consider to be better, but the initial shock of this book on me has kept it the one I've liked the most.
A lot of people I have talked to really don't like this book of Palahniuk's, but I think that is probably because they didn't read it first.
Chuck Palahnuik’s Invisible Monsters has many similarities to Fight Club and clear influences from Sartre and John Barth. It’s disjointed, fragmented, almost incomplete, and yet, he raises complex questions and makes brilliant observations. I don’t think he is so much nihilistic as he is post-modern and just doesn’t believe in culture de jour, readily satirizing at what needs to be poked fun.
Si tuviera que decir de qué trata Monstruos invisibles, diría que es un relato rayano a lo absurdo, un viaje en compañía de individuos que te espantarían si te los cruzaras por la calle.
Monstruos invisibles es una critica al estereotipo belleza y al modo de pensar.
Trata que nos desprendamos de cualquier modelo de pensamiento y de creencia.
Lo que queremos es lo que nos dicen que tenemos que querer, lo que odiamos es lo que ellos odian.
Creemos que soñar es infinito, pero los sueños se alimentan de esperanzas, y las esperanzas, de lo conocido, y lo que conocemos no es más que lo que nos muestran.
For this reason I did not expect to like Invisible Monsters, originally published in 1999.The story is told by a nameless narrator: a young woman who used to be beautiful.
Along the way flashbacks are interwoven with "the present" and other points in the time line of character's lives.This is the kind of book that requires a lot of attention.
Palahniuk manages all of these elements impressively well, making it all work despite the bizarreness and absurdity inherent to certain parts of the plot.More than anything, though, this book is really a character study.
As might be expected from the plot description given above, many ofthe relationships between characters in Invisible Monsters are dysfunctional.
The main character in this book is nameless, and disfigured.
In speech therapy our main character meets Brandy Alexander, and the story unfolds.This is probably my least favorite book so far by Palahniuk, but it was still enjoyable.
I wish I hadn't read the synopsis of this book, and just went into it knowing nothing at all.
When I heard this was Palahniuk's first book he ever tried to have published, and it got rejected as "too disturbing" I thought this was just what I was looking for at the moment.
Invisible Monsters is a book that's not about the plot.
Chuck Palahniuk's ego is so bloated that he thinks he can write a story from a "woman's" perspective and still refuse to change his typical male chauvinistic-smug-self-indulgent writing style. Please. I can imagine him sitting at his computer, typing away, stopping only to jack off at his own drivel.
Of course, this is the remix version, so it was different than the original Invisible Monsters but mainly just in the formatting and some added chapters.
* If you haven't read Invisible Monsters before and you decide to read it, I would recommend the original version.
* Ultimately, this is the best book ever (other than the original version), and reading Invisible Monsters for the first time was one of the most significant points in my life and led to so much for me.Edit: Sorry, there are a few more extra chapters than I originally thought, so make sure to look through the book a few times for all the extra chapters I guess.
The narrative flips the reader around from chapter to chapter (41, 1, 40, 2, 39, 4, 38, 5, 37, 6, etc.) with the instructions at the end of each chapter to, “Now, Please Jump to Chapter …” So polite.
We’re back to the Vogue magazine idea here.Most of these side stories deal with the process of revision and re-imagining famous movies, as Chuck did with this novel, while others detail where our narrator is now (after her story).
The end of a book generally doesn’t signal the end of a character’s life, unless you’re reading a historical fiction novel, and Palahniuk knows that.

Bu kitaba biraz kusursuzluk ver.Flaş.Biraz çarpıcılık ver.Flaş.Bu kitap bildiğin şov! İçeriğe bakarsak bu kadar kusursuz olması mükemmel bir ironi. Karşı koyması imkansız. Bütün olaylar yokuş aşağı yuvarlanıyor ve bunun parçası olmaktan haz alıyorsunuz. Hannibal dizisi gibi. Neden yapıldığını anlamanıza gerek bile yok, hissediyorsunuz. Hele o son sayfalarda iplerin koptuğu kısımlar yok mu! Otobüste şaşkınlıktan gözlerim doldu resmen! Doyamadım. İş yerinde, izbanda, otobüste, hatta otobüsten indikten sonra yürürken bile okudum. Uzun süredir böylesine açlıkla okumamıştım bir kitabı. Çok yaşa Chuck!
This just did not work for me.
The narrator grated on me, the writing style just annoyed me, I was already sick of the moral/social commentary after the first chapter, and I was bored - not even frustrated, just bored - trying to follow the so-called plot.
As for the much-touted sex and violence, it felt like he was trying way too hard to shock, simply for the sake of being offensive.
Usually, I'll skim ahead a bit, or at least check out the last chapter before condemning a book to the DNF shelf, but I just didn't care.
This is, and always will be, one of my favourite Palahniuk books. Something about it just grabs me by the throat, punches me in the throat and leaves me breathless! I love how truly fucked up and twisted this story is, no one does fucked up and twisted quite like Chuck does! It’s been years since I’ve read this book so I had forgotten most of the story and it was like I was reading it again for the first time and it reminded me why I love Palahniuk’s writing.
Pages: 200+So, it's safe to say that Chuck Palahniuk owns my soul.
I spent a good chunk of the book stuck in confusion and my mind felt like it had just been exposed to the trippiest thing ever.
But, as I like to think, what is a Chuck Palahniuk story without mental mind trips and without confusion?
It is not a Chuck Palahniuk story at all!
Chances are you'll just end up confusing yourself more, and who wants that?
Repetition, my favorite Palahniuk weapon, is used intensely in the story.
Me being a big fan of repetition, especially Chuck-style, thought this was a great story enhancer.
Jump to me reviewing Palahniuk's Invisible Monsters.
So what he does is at the end of each chapter he tells you to please, jump to this or that chapter.
Palahniuk draws his characters as caricatures but that is not a problem at all because that is simply not the point.
Besides, the type of people he describes, are little more than caricatures in real life too.
Nothing better than a book which describes the most extreme dysfunctionalities modern society brings about, in such a delicate and unpretentious manner.
That’s you.
Now, Please, Jump into the river and die with me(The End)
Dislocating the reader by organizing the chapters so they don't give you an exact idea, a hint, when the book will end is novel (it did kinda remind me, in some ways of those cheap "choose your own adventure" books I used to buy from Scholastic books when I was a kid).
BUT...But when viewed as a whole, with all of the satirical dancing, noise, and absurdity -- it just didn't work or me in the end.
As the novel wrapped up, I was bored more than anything.
I closed the book and just felt meh.
It says right from the start that you are going to read this book feeling like you are missing things and it's very true.
(This is a FABULOUS idea ps!) UPDATE:So I am now 3/4 of the way through and it is all(finally!) starting to come together.
I feel like I am going to have to re-read it now that I am starting grasp the plot and characters(yes, it really is that confusing!)It's a trip.
I am going to re-read the book now that I know where all the pieces go!
(Só dá vontade de fazer o livro saltar pela janela...)A escrita também não é grande "espingarda"...tem uma ou outra "tirada" filosófica mas com tanto saltitar perdi-as...O enredo e as personagensÉ uma trapalhada tão grande e tão absurda que já não me lembro muito bem...(vamos lá pensar...).
Um transsexual, que anda em tratamento para mudança de sexo, e que tem a cara esfacelada pela explosão de uma lata de laca.
Parece que também foi alvejado (não tomei muita atenção);.
Não tem uma única letra.(As estrelas são todas para mim porque fui uma valente e li até ao fim.)
3.5 stars rated down.This one was pretty strange, not gonna lie.
I didn't really research much before I finally decided to pick it up and I'm kind of glad that I didn't.This books was weird.
It was written in a weird way and I liked that...I think?
Part of me enjoyed this book and then another part of me is just really confused at what I just read.
The storyline itself was so strange and over-the-top, but at the same time...it was really unique.Would I call this novel one of my favourites of all time?
Nah, but it was still pretty entertaining in its own strange way...
They can't for the life of them imagine say, a woman obsessed with particle physics, or philosophy, or even where to get the best coffee beans(The hipster male circa 1999 already had a monopoly on that one, I guess).
Instead, these ladies fret over invisibility because they haven't developed a life of the mind, which then allows said f#ckboys to either pity (Wallace) or castigate them, while remaining wholly oblivious to the fact that their own pea-sized imaginations have failed to fill in their characters.
And speaking of 1999, the consumerland drivel, where's-my-jet-pack jokes, and tasteless--albeit about as shocking as the "She's man, baby!
You can find my review on my blog by clicking here.If I told you that Invisible Monsters was supposed to be Chuck Palahniuk’s first novel, before Fight Club were to ever happen, but was rejected by publishers for being too disturbing, would you believe me?
If you’re feeling adventurous and are curious about where you could find your next alarming, messed up and disturbing story, need look no further.Give me unique.Flash.Give me unpredictable.Flash.Give me a masterpiece, baby.Flash.Jump to Invisible Monsters.Yours truly,Lashaan | Blogger and Book ReviewerOfficial blog: https://bookidote.com/____________________________Such a chef d'oeuvre.
Monstruos invisibles trata de una modelo joven, preciosa y que lo tiene todo hasta que un dia sufre un accidente y su cara queda desfigurada.
Pero ese solo es el desencadenante de una serie de descubrimientos que añadirán venganza, drama de telenovela y tragedia a la trama, contado con buena dosis de escepticismo y humor escatológico.La estructura que tiene es un poco complicada porque son flashbacks continuos.
Si no tienes claro como va encajando todo es fácil liarse.
The story seemed mostly the same, with the major difference of being forced to skip from chapter to chapter like being trapped in some sort of deranged Choose-Your-Own-Adventure novel in which there was only one choice.
This is not a new theme for the author--in fact, Invisible Monsters was his first novel--but it remains an important one.
Extra chapters, hidden throughout the narrative (if I hadn't noticed some backward text I might have missed it completely, not thinking to mark chapters as I read them) give new tidbits about the characters and the author himself.
I listened to this book on audio.
The narrators were fantastic, especially Anna Fields.
Or, you can just listen-after each portion, a narrator pops on and tells you where to go next.
I just listened to it straight through.
Especially the 4 times Chuck himself narrated.
These parts were interesting because he talked about other things going on his life-I liked these sections the best.So this book has a non linear story with lots of graphic violence, language, thievery, sex and lots of drugs.
This was a totally crazy, unique, in your face, fun read and I liked it a lot!
Without question one of Chuck's best.
WARNING: I might be an asshole in this review...and there will be few spoilers here and there, as well as a lot of profanity First of all, I don't give a slightest shit about any of the characters in this book, especially Brandy Alexander, Queen Supreme, AKA Princess Princess.
She is obsessed with looking good and she pops pills like crazy.
Brandy tries to help the narrator and tells her unless she stops thinking about the past and the present, she will never be happy in the future, or some shit like that.
“If I can't be beautiful, then I just want to be invisible.”Chuck Palahniuk is a truly unique and twisted individual.
He also seems to be a bit hit or miss with me.
I have come to the conclusion that timing may be everything for a Palahniuk read.Invisible Monsters has it all.
Pretzel plotting, biting wit, uber-bizarre characterizations, scathing sarcasms, all wrapped up in a non-linear format that was either going to suck balls or be utterly brilliant.
I’m going with brilliant.Geesh piercing, Manus’s man mags, vaginoplasty, face eating birds, 46" of silicon glory, and The Elephant Man’s jazz hands.
It's lingerie for your face.”
