https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/9601.Bluebeard
One thing I've discovered is that people tend to have different favorites of Vonnegut's work.
The only person I've ever met whose favorite Vonnegut book is Bluebeard is...
What is Rabo keeping in the huge potato barn on his large estate.Some of you may remember Mr. Karabekian from Breakfast of Champions; he was largely the same character, albeit younger in years.
There's several jokes regarding Rabo's paintings, one of which he gave away in Breakfast: his work is Rabo's view of the human soul.
And we do get to find out what Bluebeard keeps in his potato barn.
Old, lonely, and guarding his Abstract Expressionist paintings, Rabo says that they “are about absolutely nothing but themselves”, and lack of passion and message in his works was why he was rejected by art school.
In contrast, his teenage works were made with the best possible materials, given to him from the stores of a successful artist.Writing is another art form central to the narrative: Rabo is now writing; his friends Circe Berman and Paul Slazenger are also writers, of varying success, and the letters of Dan Gregory’s PA, Marilee, are crucial to the story.
Όλη η ουσία κρυμμένη στο μυστικό της κλειδαμπαρωμένης παλιάς παταταποθήκης.Μέχρι να αποκαλυφθεί το μυστήριο του Κυανοπώγωνα μπαίνουμε σε μια ιστορία ζωής παράδοξη και συμβατή με παγιωμένες αντιπολεμικές απόψεις,τραυματικά βιώματα και την αυτοκαταστροφή της καλλιτεχνικής ψυχής στο βωμό της Τέχνης. Ο αφηγητής μας είναι ένας μονόφθαλμος βετεράνος του Βπαγκοσμίου πολέμου,γεννημένος απο γονείς που επιβίωσαν στην γενοκτονία των Αρμενίων και έζησαν ως μετανάστες στην Αμερική.Ο ίδιος ένας αποτυχημένος ζ
Ο αφηγητής μας είναι ένας μονόφθαλμος βετεράνος του Β´παγκοσμίου πολέμου,γεννημένος απο γονείς που επιβίωσαν στην γενοκτονία των Αρμενίων και έζησαν ως μετανάστες στην Αμερική.Ο ίδιος ένας αποτυχημένος ζωγράφος,φρικτός σύζυγος και απαράδεκτος πατέρας δυστυχώς κατανοεί πλήρως την ανεπάρκεια του σε όλους τους τομείς της ζωής και ζει απομονωμένος σε μια εξοχική πολυτελέστατη κατοικία 19 δωματίων με ιδιωτική παραλία,την οποία έχει μετατρέψει σε μουσείο για τα έργα των φίλων του.
Στο φθινόπωρο της ζωής του είναι πάμπλουτος και συνειδητοποιημένος πως στο ατελιέ της ψυχής του δεν υπάρχει πλέον κανένα ουσιώδες έργο τέχνης.
“What a fool I would have been to let self-respect interfere with my happiness!” ― Kurt Vonnegut, BluebeardA pseudo memoir of Rabo Karabekian a minor Abstract Expressionist whose art literally disappeared (thanks to a poor choice in paints).
He lives in his big house in the Hamptons among the art he bought cheap (Rothkos, Pollocks, etc) years ago.
He is being bullied into writing his memoirs by Polly Madison, a writer of cheap blockbuster novels.
At its heart, this novel is Vonnegut working his way through some of his previous big themes (war, isolation, humanism, pacifism) along with explorations of art, commerce, &c.This isn't one of his better novels, but is firmly in the middle of the pack.
This is maybe the fourth or fifth Vonnegut book I've read, having only been introduced to him recently, sadly. I'm becoming quite a fan of his writing. What I like about him is that a lot of deep truths mask the ironic and humorous statements he makes. Definitely a must-read for those who like satire.
Gregory makes Rabo promise to learn by heart the sentence, "The Emperor has no clothes." He regards modern art (as found in the Museum of Modern Art) as "the work of swindlers and lunatics and degenerates."How is that for trivia?The Kitsch WriterCirce Berman is actually a popular author of kitsch young adult novels that are "useful, frank and intelligent, but as literature hardly more than workmanlike" (under the pseudonym, Polly Madison), who is writing a biography of her deceased husband, Abe (a brain surgeon).
There are so many layers to this book I'm sure I'll be thinking about it off and on for the next several months at least and will almost definitely re-read this book a number of times before I reach room temperature.Check it out: The protagonist/autobiographer is a veteran who lost an eye in WWII who later becomes one of the biggest jokes of the Abstract Expressionist art movement because all of his art disintegrates due to a poor choice of paint.
Both the original Bluebeard story and Vonnegut's have curious, prying women, too.But the thing that's occupying my mind about the book right now is endings.
Although it's only a little bit about that too.What it's really about is Rabo Karabekian, ageing hermit, art collector, and life-regretter with a secret something in his potato barn.
All the characters here are wonderfully realized and I was sad to see them go by novel's end.I love how Vonnegut is able to tie tethers through time to connect a character's past to their actions throughout their lives without shoving it down the reader's throat.
In fact, it's a trait I remember loving from my earlier readings of Vonnegut.I'm not sure if this is a well-known Vonnegut novel, but I was pleasantly surprised when it was chosen as our latest book club read.
Πέμπτο βιβλίο του Κερτ Βόνεγκατ που διαβάζω, αλλά τόσα χρόνια που πέρασαν από την τελευταία φορά που διάβασα βιβλίο του (Μάιος του 2011), είναι σαν να τον γνωρίζω για πρώτη φορά. Ειλικρινά δεν ξέρω γιατί απείχα τόσα πολλά χρόνια από τα βιβλία του, ενώ τα προηγούμενα λίγο έως πολύ με είχαν ξετρελάνει (εκτός, ίσως, από το "Σλάπστικ", που θυμάμαι ότι μου είχε φανεί κάπως αδύναμο). Πρόκειται για ένα ιδιαίτερο και σχετικά ιδιόρρυθμο βιβλίο, μια μίξη αυτοβιογραφίας και ημερολογίου, το οποίο εν πολλοίς
Ειλικρινά δεν ξέρω γιατί απείχα τόσα πολλά χρόνια από τα βιβλία του, ενώ τα προηγούμενα λίγο έως πολύ με είχαν ξετρελάνει (εκτός, ίσως, από το "Σλάπστικ", που θυμάμαι ότι μου είχε φανεί κάπως αδύναμο).﻿ Πρόκειται για ένα ιδιαίτερο και σχετικά ιδιόρρυθμο βιβλίο, μια μίξη αυτοβιογραφίας και ημερολογίου, το οποίο εν πολλοίς μιλάει για την Τέχνη, την καλλιτεχνική φύση, τον πόλεμο και την αυτογνωσία, με ύφος έντονα σαρκαστικό και αρκετά κυνικό.
Η γραφή είναι πραγματικά εξαίσια, ρέει σαν γάργαρο νερό, μόνο αυτή αρκεί για να λατρέψει κανείς το βιβλίο, ανεξάρτητα αν βρει του γούστου την πλοκή ή τους χαρακτήρες.
Thanks to the conversational first person narration and the consistent switching between Rabo’s reminiscences and the present day at his home in the Hamptons, Bluebeard feels like a light novel.
Vonnegut, the Vietnam War no doubt weighing heavily in his mind as he wrote this, wanted to remind us that the militaristic mindset that accompanied the United States’ rise as a twentieth-century superpower was not always the status quo.Rabo Karabekian is an awesome narrator in general, because he does not bullshit.
I picked this to read as a little birthday treat to myself and, true to form, Vonnegut didn't let me down.Once apprentice to 'great man' and famous illustrator Dan Gregory before becoming one of the founders of an important abstract art movement, even if he was the least talented of the lot, Rabo Karabekian is now a septuagenarian content to live out his days in his well-off dead wife's family home, on the proceeds of his extremely valuable art collection and his only company his cook, her daughter and his best friend, Paul Slazenger.
Բարի, հավես նախշուն Կուրտ Վոնեգուտը հայ սոցիոպատ նկարչի մասին։ Վոնեգուտի մյուս գրքերից տարբերվող գիրք էր, բայց իր ոճի մեջ գրված, հետաքրքիր, յուրօրինակ կերպարներով։ Վոնեգուտը սահուն կերպով դառնում ա սիրածս գրողներից մեկը:
“What will be found written after the name Rabo Karabekian in the Big Book on Judgment Day?  Soldier: Excellent.  Husband and Father: Floparroo.  Serious artist: Floparroo”Loved this autobiography of the fictional painter Rabo Karabekian (who briefly appears in Breakfast of Champions and Deadeye Dick). In typical KV fashion, it touches on morality, war, and the human condition. And, of course, there’s that dark humor I so adore.
No one can bring these disparate elements together in a manner more interesting than Kurt Vonnegut, and "Bluebeard' does so in a very pleasing and rather un-ironic (for Vonnegut) way."Bluebeard' is written as a sort of diary, from the first person perspective of the novel's protagonist, Rabo Karabekian, and is told in the conventional linear format, with flashbacks seemingly every other paragraph.
The book builds to a climax that is the most uplifting and life affirming that I have come across, so far, in the Vonnegut oeuvre and I was stunned and pleased by it.
I would call this the most mature of any of Vonnegut's books that I have read so far.
I know that Vonnegut began his novel writing close to the age of 30 which is considered an adult but his work still lacked maturity.
This perspective and style work really well when looking at life through art.
I felt I was looking into Vonnegut's heart and mind as I read each page.
The medium is different but the message is the same.
This really make's McLuhan's the medium is the message resonate with me.
The “Bluebeard” of the title is Rabo Karabekian, an abstract expressionist painter, who has also appeared in Vonnegut’s Breakfast of Champions. Karabekian is the narrator, and in addition to telling his own biography, he comments on modern art. I don’t like it as well as some of the other Vonnegut novels, but it’s worth reading for Vonnegut’s black humor and satiric social commentary.
But like all of Vonnegut's books, it's one I hope to revisit many times in the future.Bluebeard is a fictional autobiography of a cranky old Armenian modern painter living alone on a beachside estate.
I’ve read and reread many of Vonnegut’s books and to this day, if you pinned me down and asked me to recall for you the plot of Breakfast of Champions or of The Sirens of Titan, I would fail miserably.
Bluebeard is unusual in comparison to his other books.
The main character, Rabo Karabekian, is a widowed former painter who is writing as an autobiography.
(Vonnegut goes so far to make the book Rabo’s, that he credits a fictional character in the dedication).
Rabo is a sad character.
Rabo himself is missing an eye.
When a bossy, mysterious writer invites herself into his mansion, Rabo opens up about his life, his art and his sadness.
This saved the book.
While the Rabo’s memoirs are completely boring, the suspense Vonnegut builds for Rabo’s secret is well constructed.
Vonnegut's biting satire comes through with this, his profile of fictional artist Rabo Karabekian.
The book spans such events as the Turkish Armenian genocide, World War II, and the post-war climate in New York that gave birth to Abstract-Expressionism.
Karabekian is the strongest character in the book (the others are not as developed as I would have liked) and through him, Vonnegut's love for art and particularly the Ab-Ex movement come through.
An art movement not without its own tragedies for the painters involved.
"Survivor guilt" is a theme throughout the book as Karabekian goes back and forth between his own writings and his unfolding uneasy relationship with the Widow.
Another interesting Vonnegut book.
He covers the usual gamet of Vonnegut trademarks - WWII, a reactive protagonist (as opposed to proactive) how art can be quite useless etc...
The book is filled with great quotes and many thought provoking ideas.
It's not one of his most famous books partially because (in my opinion) it has so many cross over themes from his other novels.
He's talked about some of these themes before but comes at them from a different angle in Bluebeard.
A very brilliant writer and one of my all time favorites.
As he said, maybe it's time to give women a chance.
More Vonnegut...I really liked this one. Some of the smartest commentary on modern art (well, sort of modern -- the abstract expressionists) and just being human via art...Ah, I'm not doing this justice. It's grumpy and the ending is a little implausible (the final masterpiece sounds pretty cool the way a World War II diorama of infinite detail is cool...I like that sort of stuff, but I find it hard to consider it sublime, exactly). I miss Kurt Vonnegut.
Kafam çok karışık. Çok gerçek,çok güzel,çok tuhaf ve sıkıcı bir kitap bu.
Vaikka "Siniparta" ei ole yhtä hyvä kuin aikaisemmin lukemani Äiti yö tai Teurastamo 5, niin huomasin nauttivani romaanista melkoisesti ja monella tavalla: sekä hymyilin kirjailijan (vähän mustanpuhuville) nokkeluuksille että pohdiskelevani kirjailijan kanssa ihmisyyttä ja ihmiselon omituisuuksia.Keskeinen teema on myös pasifismi, kirjailijalle kai aika tyypillisellä tavalla, joka pahimmillaan ja samalla toki parhaimmillaan viiltää syvältä:"Isät ovat aina niin ylpeitä nähdessään poikansa ensi kertaa univormussa", hän sanoi."Iso-Jussi Karpinski ainakin oli, minä sanoin.
Kun hän ensi kertaa tuli kotiin univormussa, Iso-Jussi näytti onnellisemmalta kuin koskaan, sillä hänestä tuntui, että Pikku-Jussi oli viimeinkin ryhdistäytynyt ja hänestä vielä tulisi jotain.Mutta sitten Pikku-Jussi tuli kotiin ruumispussissa.
Vonnegut’s humor, cultural criticism and his anti-war messages were my favorite things about the book. Can’t really tell why but there is something different in his lines, nothing really happens but you feel engaged in the story. Before you even realize it suddenly becomes addictive. The flow of the book is fantastic. It’s not only funny and has magnificent satire but also the characters make you feel involved in them. I didn’t want to put it down and I am looking forward to reading more of his work.
It seems like every book by Vonnegut is better than the previous one I read. Perfect satire, can't find many words to write a good review I just can say that I liked this biography of Rabo Karabekian, worth re-reading for sure <3 Vonnegut is one of my favorite writers!
By far, my favourite Vonnegut book (though, to be fair, I've only read two others: Slaughterhouse-Five and Mother Night). I'm also biased because the main character was Armenian, and I could relate. Incidentally, however, I was inspired to read Vonnegut from YouTuber climbthestacks. Her video series on where to begin reading certain authors includes Vonnegut, and she too said her favourite book was Bluebeard, so I'm in good company :)I read a library copy, but I'll definitely be buying this book for my personal library.
And while it wasn't anything mind-blowing or completely crazy or shocking or anything, what's in that potato barn is vintage Vonnegut.
BLUEBEARD is basically a straightforward story, taking place entirely in a "believable" reality, whereas many of his other books contain elements of science fiction, science fantasy, and other fantastical shhhhtuufff.
In fact, if it wasn't for the ending and that potato barn, I'd likely have not liked this book as much.
Some people may love the opportunity to read a fantasy-free Vonnegut story that still remains 100% Vonnegutian (I thought I was being really clever coining that term, but apparently it already exists.
Occasionally, he would kind of wake up and spout off what might have been happening in his dream, and then fall back to sleep.
That’s the kind of non-connectedness Vonnegut provides in this novel.
It is the story of Rabo Karabeckian, an artist of Armenian descent, who is relating his own life to us (the reader) as a series of fragments.
Instead, he has become the repository of many stories about the people who made up Abstract Expressionism in the early days of this century and wants to get them off his chest.
It’s an amazing feeling to read your favorite author’s book written about a person of your nationality.
'Bluebeard' is the imaginary autobiography of Rabo Karabekian, an abstract-expressionist painter and close friend of Rothko and Jackson Pollock in post-war New York.
Vonnegut did a good research about Armenian history and culture in order to make his character and his feelings more realistic.
If Bluebeard is not one of Vonnegut’s two or three best books, it is nevertheless very much worth the ride.
Once started, Bluebeard is will be hard to put it down.
Sarcastic and haunted by what he has experienced. This is Vonnegut at his best. Slaughterhouse-Five is still my all-time favorite because of its science fiction element, but this is just as effective in combining pain with humor. After reading it, it seems odd to me that this book isn't one of his more popular. For me, it was a much more enjoyable read than Breakfast of Champions and Galápagos, which came off as a little too over-the-top. If you loved Slaughterhouse-Five but couldn't find another Vonnegut book that you enjoyed as much, give this one a shot.
