https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/23756.Berlin_Diary
Shirer’s diary is also a first-hand report of how Hitler and his henchmen kept deceiving the German public with propaganda and outright lies, this being simplified by having full control over the press, which also required foreign correspondents to have their reports censored before submitting or broadcasting.This is not history in retrospect.
This is ugly history in the making.There is actually not much I could say about the book that other reviewers haven’t already said.
I would like to point out, however, that what Shirer considered to be the psyche of “the regular German” was actually the psyche of “the regular Nazi”.
A Personal PreambleReading  William L. Shirer 's   The Rise and Fall of the Third Reich   rocked my world. At the time, I wasn't much into reading historical tomes, and it swept me away by its sheer scope in addition to the material covered. When I read Eric Larson's   In the Garden of Beasts   a few months later, it seemed to be a sort of on-the-ground companion narrative of what life was like in Berlin during Hitler's ascent to power, and that was the end of my WWII erudition for a while. That
a few months later, it seemed to be a sort of on-the-ground companion narrative of what life was like in Berlin during Hitler's ascent to power, and that was the end of my WWII erudition for a while.
That "while" ended, and several WWII-centric books later, I came across Shirer's actual eyewitness account of many of the events he would later go on to chronicle, as they unfolded at the time.
I recently found a photo (below) of Hitler arriving at a youth rally in Berlin in 1934 that seems to capture a sense of in-betweenness I found in the pages of Shirer's diary, and it's this liminal phase that is easily lost to history.
Just as I was finishing Neil MacGregor's engaging, "Germany: Memories of a Nation," a little voice reminded me that it was about time for a reread of William Shirer's classic, "The Rise and Fall of the Third Reich," while another voice immediately scolded me for not having read his "Berlin Diary 1934-1941."Maybe I should read that one first?
Well, 605 pages later, my overflowing plate is still calling my name.A diary at the epicenter of world events is not an objective history.
Shirer's diary is a unique window into what was known and believed at the time in Nazi Germany ... I am currently focusing on the 1939-41 period when Shirer, in Berlin, had access to many sources and was able to put information together in a series of brilliant reporting, analyses and conjectures.In my sequel to A FLOOD OF EVIL, I am thinking of having Shirer meet my fictional character Berthold Becker and carry on a series of conversations - in the Tiergarten, at the Adlon Hotel. A Flood of Evil
Shirer’s diary is also a first-hand report of how Hitler and his henchmen kept deceiving the German public with propaganda and outright lies, this being simplified by having full control over the press, which also required foreign correspondents to have their reports censored before submitting or broadcasting.This is not history in retrospect.
This is ugly history in the making.There is actually not much I could say about the book that other reviewers haven’t already said.
I would like to point out, however, that what Shirer considered to be the psyche of “the regular German” was actually the psyche of “the regular Nazi”.
Mr. Shirer knew at the time that things were afoot in Europe, where he'd been living and working since the age of 21, and he wrote his diary with the thought that it would be published--in other words, this is not the personal diary of someone musing about what they had for breakfast that day, and it's published b/c the person or some event in it became momentous later on.
Do note the end year--it ends before America comes into the war--the end comes when Mr. Shirer finally leaves Berlin.If you are at all interested in WWII, even if you think you've read it all by now, this is still a great book.
"Berlin Diary" is one of the more unusual documents to come out of World War II.
Shirer spent the years from 1934 to 1940 in Europe as a foreign correspondent, and was mostly posted in Berlin during that time.
As such, he witnessed the rise of Nazi fanaticism from a privileged position, often being given access to Nazi functions that the public could not attend.
Shirer's better known work, "The Rise and Fall of the Third Reich," is more exhaustive and examines the subject from a slightly more detached point of view.
As a European correspondent(first for a wire service, and later for CBS) stationed in Berlin from 34-40, Shirer was uniquely placed to comment on every major event of the early stages of WWII as they unfolded.
Luckily for us, he kept a diary.
In addition to reporting on war news he also provides keen insights into the psyche of both the Nazi leadership, and the regular German citizen.Reading this book felt a little like watching WWII on CNN with Breaking News every other page.
this book had a much more intimate and visceral feel than Shirer's best known work, Rise and Fall of the Third Reich.
Shirer wrote the classic "Rise and Fall of the Third Reich" based on his experiences as a foreign correspondent and his later exhaustive researches among the captured documents of the fallen regime.
His frustration at the fact that nobody would listen to his and others' warnings about the danger of the regime comes through quite clearly.
One comes away from this book with a feeling of bitter regret that these warnings were not listened to and that Hitler and his band of political thugs were not stamped on when it was still possible to stop them and prevent the war they were clearly planning.
It's an account of what happened when, where and how from 1934 up to 1940, as the author lives, writes, experiences/witnesses, and reports on events happening in Europe, especially the cities of Berlin, Munich, Geneva, points in France and a few other countries.
Shirer's diary covered both the BIG, important events as well as the minutiae of everyday life in Germany, Poland, Austrian, Switzerland, France, etc.
(OMG his wife had a baby at this time and she was often with Shirer, or being shuttled around to safer cities as she had some serious post-natal complications.
Very interesting reading. I only wish I had read this concurrent with The Rise and Fall of the Third Reich. This would have provided a really comprehensive look at these years. Having read both of Shirer's books as well as Klemperer's I Will Bear Witness (1933-1941), I really feel i'm getting a good sense of life in Nazi Germany up to the point where the US enters the war. For anyone interested in this time period and how these atrocities could apparently be accepted by the German people, i would highly recommend all three books.
He tells us of constantly stumbling through the dark during an air raid at 1 am in order to reach the transmission station in Berlin, in order to broadcast a censored script that may not even get through.This is an incredible book, and it was eerie because of parallels of our own current culture, as we invade countries in order to protect them, complain about human rights as we send drones which impersonally kill civilians, monitor the daily lives of civilians and lie about it, and lie about provocations for war.
Shirer had access to many of the top Nazi officials and got to know some of them quite well.This book covers the period from 1934 until the end of 1940.
Since America was not yet in the war Shirer, as an American reporter, was given significant access to the inner workings of the German government.
This is the best book on the prelude to America entering the War that I have ever read.Along with the story of the Nazi's, it was quite interesting to read about Shirer's personal life and trials during this time.
Shirer's thoughts and experiences provide fascinating insight and invaluable context to what it was like to be there in Europe during the years leading up to World War 2.
While most history books necessarily look at things in the hindsight of time, Shirer's account provides a raw, running commentary on what people who were there thought about Hitler's rise to power and the run-up to the war.
Shirer is a great chronicler and a likeable protagonist, and his own story intertwines with the story of the events going on around him, but never detracts from the main story of the amazing events going on around him.
For them he has become infallible."Shirer's Berlin Diary documents his years as a reporter in the late 1930s, watching Hitler's rise as it unfolded.
But Shirer plays more than reporter here.
And he's at his best describing Hitler's speeches which Shirer attended in person.
You can feel the energy jumping off the pages.
I'm tempted to say with some editing this book could really jump, but I think editing out the mundane daily entries would steal the essence of the book.
The trudging pace stays true to the evolution of events-both in his personal life and on the world stage.
Shiver was a legendary foreign correspondent whose best known work is probably The Rise and Fall of the Third Reich.His Berlin Diary is a more than interesting account of daily political life in Berlin between 1934 and his return to the USA at the end of 1940.
The diary deals almost exclusively with politics except for brief passages about rationing and its effects on the general population.
Two things stand out; the ludicrously restrictive censorship imposed on foreign correspondents and broadcasters and the atrocious lies from the Nazi Propaganda Ministry led by the appallingly odious Josef Goebbels.
This is the gold standard for documenting how a society can succumb to the evils of a dictator.
The writer's style stayed true to the diary as he had written it down at great risk to himself in Nazi-held countries.
It starts slowly and by almost unnoticeable steps until people start to wonder how they got there.
It is the same pattern we see many times except often people in a society do not seem to recognize it and are OK to surrender seemingly minor rights.
As with Hitler and the Nazis, one of the first targets is a free press.
I don't know how much Shirer worked over his notes for this instant history of the Nazi rise to power during his years as a correspondent in Germany, but it was not enough to make this book at all comparable to his excellent The Rise and Fall of the Third Reich or his three-volume autobiography.
He also writes about things that he saw and the rumors that he heard as he was a journalist in Berlin.
He was able to see first hand the damage and also hear the propaganda of the Nazi's excuses.William Shirer was an American radio journalist living in Berlin and covering the Nazi leaders.
He was able to stay there longer than most journalists since the sensors were able to read over his script each night before his broadcast.
I found the first 300 pages a quick read, but towards the end seemed as thought the author was ready to leave Berlin.
I have read William Shirer's The Nightmare Years and . This is journal mainly about Shirer's time spent as a correspondent inside Nazi Germany. Shirer makes note of the way Hitler dealt with other countries in his quest for domination mainly by accusing them, falsely, of conspiring against Germany. Hitler always played the victim needing recompense, and it was a song that played well in his day just as it is playing in our own day.
Without question, William Shirer's Berlin Diary provides a remarkable look inside the rise of Hitler and Nazi Germany during the period of 1934-40. His descriptions of the people of Germany as well as the conditions they were forced to live under during this period are surpassed only by the horrific images of the devastation brought about by Hitler's thirst for domination of the European continent. This is a must read for history buffs.
Diary of William L. Shirer while he was CBS radio correspondent in Berlin and elsewhere in Europe. Good first-hand accounting of "breaking news" of the time, including the Austrian Anschluss, Munich crisis, invasion of Poland, invasion of Norway, and invasion of the low countries and France. Although I knew generally about the "home front" in Germany during the war, Shirer provides good information on German rationing and the effect of the Allied bombing raids on Berlin.
It really sounds like the most exciting job.
Then again the world today is a different place...The diary feels like a beacon of reason and sensitivity in an island of brutality, so apt for those times as well as these.
Shirer's account is always to the point and impressively perceptive, no extra fat in this book at all.My only complaint is I wish Shirer had arrived in Berlin earlier and written more often in those early days.
The pre-war part of the book, with its analysis of German society and grim predictions of the future, were the principal draw for me.
It is important to note that this is not your typical historical work.
While I found myself somewhat put of by his use of the perforative "Jap" when referring to the Japanese, I do think it is a result of the time he lived in than any underlying prejudice.One of the things that hit home for me was the historical timeline.
for those of you using a Kindle Touch I would warn you that there are numerous hyperlinks to the notes and index and it is exceeding easy to click them inadvertently.
I think it would not be a problem using one of the other Kindles.
This book is full of information like this, with a constant thread of the author's frustration at the Allies' (mis)steps.Lastly, read this book for nuggets like this: "To record a few of the jokes which the Germans are telling these days: The chief of the Air-Raid Protection in Berlin recently advised the people to go to bed early and try to snatch two or three hours of sleep before the bombings start.
The Berliners say that those who take the advice arrive in the cellar after an alarm and greet their neighbors with a "Good Morning." This means they have been to sleep.
Others arrive and say: "Good evening!" This means they haven't yet been to sleep.
This journal is a fascinating view of Nazi Germany from an American journalist who lived there at the time of the start of World War 2.
It was particularly insightful since he seemed to understand what was really happening in the government even when the regular German citizen didn't know at the time.
His view of the contrasting ways Germany, France, Belgium, and Great Britain fought the war was among the most insightful in the dozens of books I've read on the war.
I learned a lot about the war in Nazi Germany that was new for me.
The Berlin Diary is correspondent William Shirer's recording of the Nazi's rise to power, mostly from his post in Berlin (and elsewhere is Europe) from 1934 to December 1940.
Every German news report was manipulated to show the Nazi's in the most positive light, with actions by other countries as being evil.
Shirer offers interesting insight into German psyche.
All in all a very satisfying book and a "must read" for anyone interested in World War II history.
William Shirer's engaging first hand account of life in Nazi Germany leading up to and during the Second World War provided an interesting view of a world which we often times generalize and analyze in a retrospective manner.
This first-hand account describes Germany and Europe in the throes of radical change and conflict, and in doing so transports the reader back into a most historic time.
While the times accounted in the is work are bleak and very much under the shadow of the Nazi Regime, (Shirer makes it clear he is no fan of Nazism) it cannot be denied that the Europe he inhabited and wrote upon was fascinating and historic.
Incredible and riveting diary of Shirer, a journalist living in Berlin during the rise of Hitler's Nazi Germany . . . It is fantastic reading these first hand impressions of events that have become so well known to me over the years! Another must-read for all history buffs!!
Riveting...compelling...A grim reminder that evil has to be confronted and conquered. A great historical record.
