https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/819198.Little_Toot
OK, of course I love Little Toot because he's been part of my life since I was born! My dad wrote and illustrated it, and in 2007, I was part of getting Putnam to publish this beautiful, vibrant restored edition with the original endpapers and some rescanned or new artwork from the first edition (1939). I love the enthusiasm that readers have for Dad's original watercolors. It's fun to see that others love this mischievous little tugboat too.
Little Toot doesn't like to work.
But then something happens and he learns a valuable lesson about working hard and building a good reputation after messing up.A good, solid classic to read with your children.
It is long, 86 pages, so will take roughly 15-20 minutes to read.Ages: 5 - 8**Like my reviews?
These reports give a complete break-down of everything in the book, so you'll know just how clean it is or isn't.
I also have Clean Guides (downloadable PDFs) which enable you to clean up your book before reading it!
Visit my website: The Book Radar.
Yesterday marked my reacquaintance with "Little Toot", a story I first read decades ago as a child. It's a wonderful, heartwarming story - complete with colorful illustrations - of a little tugboat long used to frolicking on the river among the other, bigger, oceangoing tugboats, who finds himself put to the test one night and discovers much more about himself than he had thought possible.
I read this book to my son at the library today and it was really good. Little Toot has big waters to fill, with this granddad, an old river tug, and his dad, Big Toot. The drawings are really good and it's nice to see an author able to do something so good, in it's own way.Certainly a good story well worth reading.
Such a fun and happy little book that is absolutely perfect for little kids.
As classic as THE ODYSSEY. Pretty much.
Little Toot did not like to tow bigger boats, and would much rather play all day creating figure 8's in the river.
Little Toot used his smoke bubbles to create and SOS for others to see far away.
Little Toot had saved the day and he was respected from that day forward.
This story would be good for a reader who has been reading for a little while because there are a few words that could be difficult to new readers.
I liked this book because the lesson was cute.
This is definitely a truly older book from the childhood but one that never truly interested me in it.
It is interesting to note that so many older books had lessons in them that were sometimes repeated in other reads while I would have to say I got my Little Toot lesson from "Champ: The Gallant Collie", which was geared towards a slightly older audience and had animal suckers (if you don't follow my older reviews then you mustn't know my love affair with the animal kingdom growing up).
Right up there with Mike Mulligan and his Steam Shovel.
Little Toot by Hardie Gramatky is about a little tug boat who enjoys playing in the water instead of working and tugging the big boats.
One night he got caught in a storm with some other boats, it was dark and dangerous.
Everyone wasn't safe until Toot came to the rescue and used his smoke bubbles to create and SOS for others to see far away.
He was the hero for the day and was respected from then on.This was a very cute, heartwarming story because to me it showed that little things or people can make big differences despite how little you are.
I found this with my daughter in the local library. As a kid who grew up on Disney, I know of the classic song and cartoon from the 40s from the movie Melody TimeThe Little House
How can you not adore this vintage little storybook? A little long for my 3.5 year old, but we pulled through. I love reading these old classics to her. The vocabulary is a little dated, but still a strong message to take away.
Toots are hard workers, except for the youngest, who is a dilly-dallier. At first big boats don't take him seriously when he sets out to be more responsible, but then he saves the day and shows all the big guys what he's made of.
This book goes right up there with “The Little Engine The Could”. Oh the nostalgia.
This book is so cute. It’s got beautiful and adorable illustrations. The story tells about a little tug boat that hates to work, but ends up saving an ocean liner and starts to work hard
Follows the fairly standard plot of a tiny hero that accomplishes more than anyone thought possible. It’s probably too long for a lot of kids, but it’s elevated by Gramatky’s beautiful water colors.
Copyright 1939. Lovely retro illustrations with a nice little word about work ethic.
I can take from this story that great things come in small packages! I loved how this story takes you through an emotional change and the ending is so happy with a beautiful message too. The illustration was also fab, especially the faces of the boats!
PB26: A classic picturebook that I remember from my childhood.
Little Toot is just a playful little tugboat that does not want to venture out into the scary sea but enjoys playing in the river instead.
It is a great story about overcoming your fears and becoming the person that you were meant to be.
I would definitely recommend this book for children who are afraid to overcome one of their fears.
I love all the expressions Little Toot has on his fave throughout the picturebook.
Great story!
While some of the details of this story could be challenging to explain to children today (boats from Antarctica loaded with whale oil, being proud of how much smoke one can make) the moral message is great and comes full-circle.Little Toot doesn't like to work, he ends up being ridiculed by his friends, he sulks, he ends up in the right place at the right time to help in an emergency, becomes a hero, and changes his ways.
It's actually an inspirational little story and enjoyable too.
However, because of the basic color lithography, it probably isn't as appealing to kids today as it was 50 years ago.
Maddie came home talking about Little Toot and the fact that they hadn't had time to finish the story. It stopped me for a minute as I wondered if it was the same story that I had read as a child and then read to my children. As she spoke, knew it was one and the same, so had to get her a copy, so we could enjoy this memory together. She was so surprised to hear that I had read this as a child and that her father had read it also. It was a wonderful experience.
This wonderful story is both vibrant in it's tale and it's gorgeous artwork. And, even for my distracted son that was still focused on beating the latest of the Batman levels on Wii, children can be sucked into the intensity of it all. My son, literally, crashed around on his bed sheets in an attempt to dramatize Little Toot's adventure in the waves for me. And who can fault a book that does that?
This story of a little tugboat and his adventures on the water is a classic that has lasted for decades.Age: 2+Skill: Playing (Little Toot could be a great book to read along with toy boats and to play the main characters- Little Toot and his father and grandfather, as well as other boats around.)
Little Toot doesn't like work at all or the thought of pulling big ships. After being made fun of for playing and making figure eights, he decides to make his father proud. He made his smoke balls spell S.O.S. when a ship needed help. Other boats come to help, but Little Toot is the star. He works hard from then on.
Delightful illustrations hit the mark both for their artistic merit and child-friendly, expressive charm. Perfect picture book illustrations. The story is timeless in its appeal to a preschool to beginning school age; exploring themes of self worth, being brave and learning to behave with self awareness.
Sometimes I wish I was born after the depression so that I could have the strong work ethic and good morals of their childrens books. I have to admit I think they're so sweet and I love a lot of them, including Mike Mulligen and the Steam Shovel, Katy and the Big Snow, Make Way for ducklings, and that one about the house of the hill that I'm too lazy to walk over and get right now.
Little Toot is an okay book. Nearly too long for story-time and there's a lot of language that makes it difficult for younger children. The illustrations are very charming and the story is all right. A little tugboat that prefers to play learns the value of hard work when nobody will take him seriously.
This book was one I read as a kid, and I read it to my daughter tonight. It's a good story about a frivilous tugboat who decided to get serious, but the other tugs and seagoing ocean liners ignore him until he is forced by a crisis to become a hero.
Quite long for a children's picture book; I can only surmise that children of the 1940s and 50s had less distractions and longer attention spans. Familiar trope of a playful young thing proving himself through an act of heroism. Cute.
Classic story of a tugboat who is afraid of the seas in which he is to work one day like his brave father and grandfather before him. What will he do when a storm whips up and he finds himself in the churning waters?
