https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/911325.Journey_to_the_Alcarria
كتاب في أدب الرحلات للأديب الأسباني كاميلو خوسيه ثيلارحلة قام بها ثيلا عام 1946ويحكي عنها من خلال رجل رحّالة يبدأ الرحلة من مدريد إلى إقليم القرية وهو إقليم متميز طبيعيا وجغرافيايمشي حاملا جِرابه يتأمل في جمال الريف وأحوال الناسطوال الرحلة يصف كل ما يراه بالتفصيل, الطبيعة بكل مشاهدها والناسلقاءاته بأهل القرى والبلدان الصغيرة التي مر بها وحواراته البسيطة والغريبة معهمأسلوب ثيلا جميل, وخاصًة التشبيهات بصور وتعبيرات رائعة ومبتكرة
Camilo José Cela, the author of The Family of Pascual Duarte and The Hive, undisputed master of the Spanish novel of the twentieth century, spent a few days in Alcarria, and he liked it.
During his comings and goings through the Alcarria, Camilo José Cela recorded in a notebook all that he saw: these notes formed the canvas of this book that was written while walking and "to the good franquette".
It is an escape book written with happiness by someone who has "taken the key of the fields", and this is one of the most rigorous, most important contemporary Spanish writers.
He spent around nine days visiting various small towns, sleeping in local inns and talking to those people he met during his wanderings.
But that is not where we went.When coming back to Madrid, after leaving behind the scarcely populated small towns and valleys I was engulfing myself back into an urban agglomeration, seeing the almost threatening large modern building on the outskirts of the big city, I again felt as if I were traversing the tunnel of time.I will count the days until I can set off for the Alcarria again, and visit the cities further to the south, such as Cifuented and Pastrana.
Creo que lo he leído en el momento justo, he disfrutado el viaje a un tiempo pasado de caminos polvorientos, mulas y mendigos, posadas sin camas ni comida, gente encerrada en su pueblos desde el nacimiento hasta la muerte salvo causa de guerra o hambre, un país de zurrón y alpargata.Tambien he descubierto al Cela más humano, socarrón y coñero, que sale al campo a disfrutar descubriendo palabras y parajes, que trata a todos por igual.
Puede que ahora las carreteras sean de asfalto, que los mendigos se muevan en autobús y que todos presuman de teléfono móvil en los más recónditos pueblos de la montaña (eso si, sin cobertura).
Uno de los mejores libros del siglo XX, al decir de Saramago. Falacia de autoridad aparte, y como ya le he dado 4 estrellitas de cielo y he citado a otro Nobel elogiándolo, ahora viene lo malo: la ridícula fatuidad del viajero, cosa que molesta especialmente en un libro de descubrimiento de lugares y gentes, en un libro de apertura a experiencias como este..., por no decir que esos aires de superioridad con respecto a minusválidos físicos o mentales hace parecer al viajero, enredadoras que son las paradojillas, tonto del culo.
قرأت ثيلا في مجموعته القصصية "سحب عابرة"، وأقرأ هنا ثيلا من وجه آخر...ففي قصصه سحب عابرة يتبدى للقار
There was something about the way that the author, referring to himself in the third person as the traveller,, observed the countryside and the people in it in great detail, but without judgement.
His observations were like a snapshot of the time and place.
It goes without saying, naturally, that the traveller goes via Casasana."There was also something endearing in the way that some people he met, when finding out he was from Madrid, asked him if he knew someone of their acquaintance there.
Very quiet book of observations and descriptions during a trek through the Spanish countryside in the mid-1940s. Leaves the reader to draw his own conclusions; the author simply takes each road and peasant or traveling salesman as he finds them. Interesting to read along with Laurie Lee's Spanish walk between the wars; this is a people closed in and reserved but not unkind.
Un libro maravilloso cuyo interés, más que en el paisaje y en el detalle geográfico, radica en la filosofía del viajero y sus cavilaciones. No le doy 5 estrellas porque al final del libro la narración se centra más en las descripciones geográficas y menos en la proyección de la filosofía del autor.
My favorite travelogue, period. Charming, wise, eloquent.

En este peculiar libro Cela escribe como dios, parco en palabras, pero claro y directo. Poco se puede decir de un libro que retrata una época viva de este país. Es cierto que la historia en si no existe, pero los personajes y las situaciones tienen una autenticidad impresionante. Es un retrato histórico literario. No le doy mejor puntuación porque no es un libro que haya disfrutado como lector, aunque como escritor lo he gozado muchísimo, Cela es un gran maestro.
Brief, Simple, informative and interesting.
La verdad que Cela, cuando escribe bien, escribe como los ángeles (no le tendremos en cuenta veleidades incomprensibles como La cruz de San Andrés). Pero lo suyo es la prosa, las poesías intercaladas las podría haber escrito yo :P (bueno, casi.... ;P)
When the belly is empty and the mind filled with golden memories, the golden memories continually retreat and at last, though no one goes so far as to admit it, there is even doubt whether they ever existed and there is nothing left of them but a benevolent and useless cultural residue.”Cela's account concerns the rural Spanish countryside tho it's clearly addressed to - and has obvious and important implications for - an educated, modernized urban readership.
So I'll take it as a sort of provincial cousin to novels in the 'flaneur' tradition (see this great LARB essay: https://lareviewofbooks.org/essay/imp...) Fans of WG Sebald, Ben Lerner etc take heed: an insightful, penetrating travelogue that rolls out in flawless, graceful prose.
Cela prefaces Journey to the Alcarria with a letter to Gregorio Maranon, to whom he dedicates the book.
He writes:I didn't see anything strange during my journey, nothing really shocking - a crime, or a triple birth, or a man possessed by devils - and I'm glad of it now, because since I had planned to tell exactly what I saw (for this book isn't a novel, it's more like a geography), if I start off telling horror stories people would say I was exaggerating and nobody would believe me.A fine, short travel book in which nothing much of note happens, recounted in a serene, perfectly crafted way.
Journey to the Alcarria is quiet and unassuming, observant and beautiful.
This is a great book to read when feeling absolutely drained.
Libro pretendidamente simple, y que va más allá de su simplicidad.
La literatura de viajes es un género con ciertos amarres que el viajero de Cela en Viaje a la Alcarria respeta durante los diez días que recorre la región en la provincia de Guadalajara en España.
(fin de la cita) Nuestro viajero que también es padre, a diferencia de aquellos con quienes cruza camino, no fue bautizado por su creador, son solamente los poemas de su autoría que Cela intercala a lo largo del recorrido, su carta de presentación e identidad.
This short book is a travelogue/memoir of a walking trip through the Alcarria region of Spain in the 1940s.
It is interesting, but knowing little of the area or really of Spain in general, I couldn't really relate to it.
The parts I found most interesting revolved around old buildings and current uses, and food.
And the walking--I would love to take a trip like this, though Cela picked an area without many walkers.
I would absolutley love to read something like this from there.If you like/know rural Spain you might find this very interesting.

Much more than a travel guide from Cela and as ever words of wisdom 'to push any article you've got to put yourself out and have a lot of patience; take a lot of trouble and put up with a lot, because otherwise you don't get anywhere" hmmm
The author recounts a trip he made to a mainly impoverished rural area of Spain. It reads more like travel notes than a detailed travelogue, much of it is very short on the details, although he does say where he went, where he stayed and ate, and a few conversations with people he met along the way. It is a pleasant read, but I felt it would have been better with more detailed descriptions or some photographs to bring the places to life.
Según es un libro de viaje..., pero como suele ocurrir con las obras de Camilo José Cela, es más que eso. Me gustó.
Interesante libro donde se puede captar un atisbo de la vida rural durante el los años 40 a 50 en España.
Studied in Spanish for IB around 1992
استمتعت كثيرا في البداية وكآني في رحلة وكنت استشعر كل الاوصاف التي يحكيها ولكن بعدذلك اصبت بالملل وفقدت القدرة على التركيز ربما لاتروقني كثيرا التفاصيل الدقيقه
Ooooh! Found a copy online HERE!The traveler wanders the Spanish territory of Alcarria. The traveler meets many townfolk, animals, stops to drink, smoke, and nap a lot. But, the dialogue was so cryptic that it was sometimes difficult to tell if the traveler was a decent fellow or a snob. A rather boring travelogue about a rather boring guy who went on a rather boring adventure.
Un anecdotario de lo más entrañable y por momentos irónico que he tenido la suerte de leer conociendo esa bonita y hospitalaria tierra.
The protagonist is a traveller (actually Cela himself although he only mentions his name once or twice) who leaves home and travels through Alcarria a largely rural region northeast of Madrid.
The book is neither character nor plot driven but rather is like a journal of travels.
Readers are given virtually no information about the protagonist (Cela) or his intentions in wandering the countryside, but instead are taken along for the trip.
Cela wanders from village to village through some beautiful and often desolate land.
Overall, I enjoyed this book despite its lack of plot or character development.
I felt that Cela really captured the beauty and atmosphere of the countryside.
