https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/854274.The_Angel_of_Terror
I have been wanting to read one or two of Edgar Wallace's novels for some time to see what all the fuss was about in his day. This tale of an amoral but beautiful woman and her victims was surprisingly timeless and entertaining, just perfect for a day of airplane travel after days of fatiguing meetings and work.
This is a 3.5 star read.Rating only.
Exquisitely beautiful and thoroughly vile, Jean is a scheming murderer, who gets away with multiple murders because she is so so lovely, innocent looking, and a skilled liar. But lawyer Jack Glover has her pegged, and does his best to protect Jean's latest target, an unbelievably naive and debt-ridden working girl, who unexpectedly inherits the fortune that Jean had planned on acquiring. In spite of the tense nature of the plot, it is told in quite a humorous manner with a cast of fascinating characters. First published in 1922, I listened to this as a free download from LibriVox.org.
Now comes the next problem in the money making scheme, since James isn't going to die, the beautiful lady must wait until he turns thirty, for some odd reason it was a condition of his father's will that he must be married by the time he is 30 or he will lose the inheritance and it will go on to his next successor.
But of course that was just a coincidence too, Jean is so beautiful.Then Mr. Briggerland, who happens to be writing a book on crazy people and visiting insane asylums, that we never hear about again, happens to talk to one of them about this girl, and the crazy man just happens to escape that night and show up in Lydia's bedroom.
This is a riveting tale which sets out with a man being sentenced for murder and a beautiful, innocent woman having had to testify against him.
Except, what everyone thinks is exactly opposite to the truth, according to the condemned man's friend and attorney, Jack Glover.
Meanwhile, poverty-stricken Lydia gets pulled into this scenario completely out of the blue and is put in the situation of having to decide who to trust.
One person is telling the truth and the other is out to murder her.
We are not really ever in the dark about it, but watching Lydia's thinking and also seeing the behind-the-scenes machinations makes this a real page-turner.
Náhodný výber z domácej knižnice. Thriller či detektívka? Hm, skôr zvláštny mix oboch a dokonca nie veľmi oslnivý. Postačil však, ako oddychové rýchle čítanie. Mimochodom, "hrdinka" sa volá Lýdia. Je neuveriteľne naivná a hlúpa. Hodnoteniu to teda nepomohlo :-)
Jack Glover saves Lydia from a life of penury. Written early in the century, this is a book by an author whose works have been translated to television and film. Lydia had taken on the debts of her late father, and could not reduce the amount that his creditors were owed. THe Angel of Terror is a beautiful but ruthless woman who, along with her father, plots to steal all Lydia's fortune. How she is thwarted--well, read the book--
I'm sorry I started on this book. I kept reading, hoping it would get better but it never did. The lead character, Lydia, was incredibly naive and stupid. How could everyone be deceived by the villaness, Jean? I do not recommend. I only give it two stars because there are some exciting scenes but, overall, the end was disappointing.
Did anyone else think Lydia deserved to die for being so stupid? Her stupidity nearly ruined the book for me. I actually wanted the "bad guys" to succeed. Nevertheless, three stars because this book was fun, I loved so much of it being set in the south of France, I was in suspense and Jane Briggerland is a really wonderful character. A fun quick read.
While definitely not as great as his previous works but quite good nonetheless. I found the protagonist to be too naive almost on the verge of being stupid, but the character of the antagonist is indeed quite interesting especially her role as a provocateur of evil. I would definitely recommend this for fans of victorian era mysteries.
Old-fashioned mystery, very easy to read or in my case to listen to (audio book version). Great book to pass the time but I don't think that I will remember it for long. It is well written and the story is decent but I would say that there is nothing special about it.
In this one, another free download to my Kindle, the "bad guy" was known right away. However, what was not known was how much danger could be done, and how would the bad guy eventually get caught. I enjoyed this one.
A classic mystery crime novel involving the evil deeds of one Jean Briggerland, a woman with all the outward angelic qualities imaginable but possessing an unspeakable evil nature... Can Jack Glover stop her???
This was an audio book and was rather interesting. It's a "murder mystery" but only in the sense of will the murder be found out by the society at large and be caught. I liked the premise and the characters and will remember the book because of the "non-traditional" ending.
This was a very odd book. I didn't like it as much as some of Edgar Wallace's other works, primarily because one of the primary characters seemed almost unbelievably naive. The book has an interesting (albeit relatively implausible) plot that kept me entertained.
Mostly good, but the heroine is unbelievably naive & too stupid for anyone to fall in love with. The villain however is extremely well written, as well as her nemesis, Jack Glover. Watching them trying too outwit each other throughout the book was a lot of fun.
Jean Briggerland is the "Angel of Terror" and she is evil.
I stumbled on to this book quite by accident.But i am glad i did. It was a very consuming book, finished it in just 2 sittings. Not a fan of the ending but otherwise an enjoyable read.
I have quite a few of these old mysteries and I hope they are as entertaining as this one. A quick enjoyable read.
audio from Librivox, very funny
This was a surprisingly good and quick read!
A classic crime novel where you know who the bad guys are and who the good ones are. The heroine is more than naive. The cold blooded villain is a female, with looks deceiving.Everyone is blinded by her charm and beauty, except for Jack Glover, the detective, who knows the crimes she has committed.The plot is okay-ish , with not many twists and turns. Neither a great nor a bad read.
It's a nice book about a very deceptive girl that seems only like an angel
A beautiful woman can do no wrong, regardless of how much evidence proves otherwise. Decently written, but idiotic.
This was a painfully slow book for me. I bought the book, so I was going to read it no matter what.
So, the best friend of a young lawyer, Jack Glover, has been convicted of murder, basically upon the sole witness of a beautiful, well spoken young woman, Jean Briggerland.
It turns out the alleged murderer, James Meredith, is a cousin of Jean Briggerland, and also her ex-fiancée, and she stands to inherit all his wealth upon his death, unless, of course, he concocts to find another heir before he is hung, e.g. getting himself a spouse (since she struck out on the spousal rouse).
But first, he sets Glover up with a spouse, one Lydia Beale, so as to ensure that Jean Briggerland won't inherit Meredith's wealth.
Jean Briggerland - I am smitten by her ! What a villain :)
The "heroine" is the dumbest of dumb despite multiple attempts on her life.
How many times can she say that the "villain" can't possibly be a bad person and been involved in murder.
This despite the mayhem happening around her that only started when this woman appeared in her life.
And is heir to her money.
Lots of money i suppose i should be grateful that he was modernistic enough to let the "villain" get away and end up with someone with the same morality and ethics as she (foreign of course) and not in good old England.
I have to admit that I am not completely done with it, but I really don't think that my opinion of it will change much at this point.I agree with many of the other reviewers who didn't really care for the book.
The heroine is so painfully blind, and frankly stupid, to all that is going on around her.
She is so infatuated with the villain that even when everything is laid out step-by-step in front of her she still refuses to believe that her new "friend" is in fact a villain after her money.I will bravely try and finish the book, I hate leaving books unfinished, but I don't expect much from the ending.
Wallace was at one time arguably the most popular writer in the world. This is the first book that I have read from him, most of which are now in the public domain and freely available. "Angel of Terror" is an entertaining enough thriller with a memorable female antagonist and some cozy mystery and absurdist themes. Although written almost 100 years ago, the prose is not hindered by the boring anachronistic English found in many older novels, making it an easy and relatively fun read. Perfect for casual reading when complex plots and characters are not so welcome.
