https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/755786.The_Deep_Range
Heinlein or, someone I can't quite put a finger on while writing this.Clarke proposes a near future world, whose seas are fenced in, by using ultrasonics, to create and procure rich plankton meadows grazed by herds of whales, now domesticized animals raised to feed the masses, like the cows and chickens of today.
The real grabber, however, may be that through the demanding daily routines of Walter Franklin's new life, somewhere deep below in the bottom depths of the ocean, lies a mystery or two that may not be at the story's center-piece but, is Arthur C.
A convenient caveat Clarke arranged in order to justify his story line, which is to give Franklin a new love on Earth, even though it is peripheral to his main idea.Franklin now works at a Marine Center where he has learned to drive underwater subs to monitor sea life and maintain herds of whales which are used as sources of food, the way cows are now.With his new co-worker, Don Burley, we see a future world underwater and how it functions to support human life.
Gender relations have advanced a little past the time of writing, but only because the book was published in 1957; all the front-line jobs on the ocean are done by manly men, who communicate in the sort of painfully manly banter recognisable from any third-rate mid-twentieth century film portrayal of pilots or lumberjacks.
Most shocking, though, is the way in which the novel's main topic is treated so blithely - the oceans have been fenced, like the prairies of the American West before them, and turned to producing food for a hungry future populace.
Except it turns out that Clarke is one step ahead after all, of his time if not of ours.
Expresses hope of how mankind can very well be able to get beyond the idea of animal torture, in its unnecessary killing of other creatures.I loved the idea of the novel, which is actually an expanded form of the short story by the same name published originally in 1954.
A truly fabulous book, and indeed the integration of an important element, for today's meat-frenzied world!"Within a century or so, we will literally be going outside the solar system.
And when that time comes, the treatment man receives from his superiors may well depend upon the way he has behaved toward the other creatures of his own world."
It is very sad that the Ocean (which by words of some number guys takes up 72% of Earth surface) receives so little in the department of sci-fi literature.
Yes, many stories includes Ocean as a background or even "ground", many uses it as a scenery, some even try to make it alien life from.
But how many takes Ocean as a system "environment<=>human"?
I'm not talking about scientific papers or longwinded dreams of "what if?", I'm talking about stories where author actually explores situation when person changes ocean and ocean changes person in return.There is soooo much literature about space exploration, space wars, space romance, space culture clashes...
I read almost all of the Arthur C Clarke books as a teenager and really loved them.
Re-reading this book after all those years makes you realise how the world and yourself has changed.
This book is science fiction, but it has really dated - hardly any of it is prophetic, in fact, quite the opposite.
In fact, Clarke is very casual about killing things all throughout the book - despite the 180 degree shift towards the end.
Despite being well written, it was a bit of a chore reading this book at times - in a nutshell, it was very Victorian in its outlook.
The book had some excellent ideas and started really well. For me, it was too long drawn out with noenough action or depth of character (please pardon the pun)
I picked up this book because Arthur C.
Clarke is generally a good writer and I liked the sound of the title and the write-up.
Unfortunately it didn't really live up to my expectations.
It's not a long novel but even so it's split into three individual, but linked, sections.
Part 3 on the other hand I found quite boring.
The theme was more political and provided a vehicle for the author's views on what the future scenario for world food supply should be, in a vastly over populated earth.
The Deep Range is such a story.
I am curious what story it told.The Deep Range is the story of Walter Franklin, an astronaut who suffers from astrophobia who no longer can work in space.
In this future, humans now farm whale meat as a primary source for meat, oils, and other parts, and this is the story of Walter Franklin as a recruit to later administrator.I enjoyed this short, fun novel quite a bit.
If you are a fan of old SF, this one is quick, fun read that does not overstay its welcome.
Por una vez la ciencia ficción de Clarke no nos lleva al espacio y se permite imaginar como será el aprovechamiento de los recursos marítimos dentro de unos 100 años.
Granjas de placton, rebaños de ballenas, exterminio de tiburones, debates mundiales sobre el veganismo...Un libro muy rápido que va enlazando una historia con otra sin llegar si quiera a flaquear.
Será porque no esperaba mucho de el pero me ha dejado muy buen sabor de boca.
Un roman de SF avec comme toile de fond les profondeurs océaniques de notre bonne vieille planète bleue. Ça paraît bête mais il n'y en a pas tant que ça. C'est terriblement d'actualité dans son traitement et la seconde moitié du récit avec son questionnement écologique et philosophique est tout aussi moderne. C'est bien à cela qu' on reconnaît les bons auteurs et les bons livres. Par contre, on repassera sur la place de la femme...
Outstanding and thought-provoking book. Must read more from the great man's canon ...
От космоса тут только упоминание о полетах и Марсе, что меня даже не смутило, ведь с самого начала книга на свой неторопливый лад рассказывала о переживаниях и адаптации гораздо больше, чем об окружении.
Я не большой любитель психологизма в окружении бытовых вопросов, которые я и так каждый день лицезрею (совсем другое дело – рутина в космических декорациях!), но будни Отдела китов меня приворожили.
Лучше бы Франклин оставался в воде и счастливо доживал деньки в роли смотрителя, потому как политическая борьба с ним в одной из главных ролей показала его с нерешительной и даже трусливой стороны.
Oh and these aren’t just any old coincidental meetings, two of them happen at a great depth under water.
What really sets the teeth on edge however are the overtly and irritatingly preachy last few chapters which are not saved by a semi interesting thought about how non terrestrial life may judge us.
Many readers, myself included, would actually agree with the authour about how we should treat the particularly large sea life these chapters focus on, but Clarke handles this in such an uncharacteristically heavy handed way that I found myself almost empathising with the few characters taking the opposing viewpoint.
Adding covers to GoodReads is particularly interesting when one comes up with one for a book read long ago.
This one brings back memories.I was fourteen, finishing up eighth grade at Lincoln Junior H.S. in Park Ridge when an infection arose under my left eyeball, causing a high fever and swelling that side of my face to such proportions that when my grandmother came to check in on me while Mother was at work, I saw her face react with horror before she regained her composure.During that period of long convalescence not only did I miss school, which was pretty much over with anyway, but I had the opportunity, after the fever abated, to read a lot of science fiction.
Of the books read then, Clarke's The Deep Range and Heinlein's Green Hills of Earth are the most memorable.
In the future (as seen from 1957), submersible game wardens herd whales around underwater ranges.
The whales are food animals which, along with equally farmed seaweed, have solved the world’s food supply problems.
The story is about an ex-engineer on a spaceliner who suffered an accident and gets a new start as a warden.This book has aged quite badly.
While much of Clarke’s space based science fiction can be read with enjoyment today, this one is just plain tedious.
So tedious, in fact, that I only got about half way through before giving up.
The Deep Range is an important Arthur C.
Clarke novel because it is devoted to the ocean, as was Clarke all throughout his life.
It’s been quite awhile since I read this one, but I remember really enjoying it.
The vast oceans of Earth merit the same type of exploration we give the solar system.
As with other books, Clarke takes a stab at philosophy, leaving much to muse upon.
If all other Earth species were polled, could two be found who need humans to exist?
These are questions I was presented by reading Clarke.
I definitely will revisit this novel in the future.
I listened to the audio version of this book.
The narrator's voice was a little too high for me, but that wasn't my main problem with the book.
Although it was a short book, it felt long because nothing really happened.
The first 9 chapters were spent revealing the protagonist's secret past and describing the setting and equipment.
Other than being set in the future, this didn't really feel like sci fi.
I don't know why I keep tormenting myself with Clarke other than the fact that it appears a lot of people love him.
I just don't get the Clarke love.
The Deep Range conjures up the image of shepherds protecting their flock and cowboys rounding up livestock on a futuristic backdrop.
Desperate to stave off famine, humans returned to the ocean to feed.
As it proved to be a bountiful resource, new technologies and jobs were created to ensure continued success.
Don, a man whose occupation I can only describe as "whale cowboy", protects his massive herd by utilizing underwater electrical fences and trainer porpoises who rival dogs in loyalty and intelligence.
When a Greenland shark skips through the electric barrier, Don sets off in a sub equipped with sonar and retractable dart spears to fight it.
To modern readers (or under middle-age), then this might seem a bit outdated in its style. But I still like it after revisiting it like an old friend from many years ago.There are no SF grandiosities (time travel etc), and no villians. There is an unfashionably benign view of the future, helped by technology, and by some characters who manage harvesting of the sea.
My first story read by early Clarke. So, Deep Range has interesting ideas and solid technical background to stick those ideas together. But, its vague plot development and blunt characters make the whole story difficult to be in love with.
An obscure and underrated masterpiece in Arthur C. Clarke's canon. The book deals realistically with the life of a man in the future, his psychological fears, regrets and grieving, and his chance to find a new life.
Usually a huge fan of A.C Clarke but this was a slow read with one too many tangents. Shame as It started off with a nice sense of mystery.
Very good book, highly entertaining.
My first Arthur C. Clarke! Love the combination of sci-fi and the intensely psychological.
In 2018, we're a lot closer to the timeframe of the story (the 2030s, I think) than Clarke was when he had the novel published in 1957.
Another is when, again, in 2030, the World Food Organization is struggling to feed the five billion people on the planet.
From my reading of Clarke in general, several of his stories are not really structured that way.
If you're a fan of underwater science fiction, this is a must-read, like Verne's Twenty Thousand Leagues Under the Sea. But the story has not worn well, and may not appeal to other folks.
It didn't live up to my expectations, mainly because my expectations were to get graded for simply reading stories, not for quizzes, papers, or any of those other requirements that the teacher tacked onto the class.
I did, however, get a nifty little book of science fiction tales, one of which was a short Story called "The Deep Range".
I had also heard at some point that Mr. Clarke had expanded the short story to novel length.
Mr. Clarke has expanded it beyond the cowboy tale, exploring how the oceans might be converted to agriculture.
This book balances both, perhaps tipping a bit too much toward the character and away from the idea, but it is still remarkable since I am so used to the less defined ACC characters.
The extrapolation of the novel is well executed, if a bit absurd--what if the whales were treated like we treat cows now?
If we need to respect the feelings and spirits of whales and cows, who is to say a tomato plant does not have those same things but in a way we cannot understand?
How immature and illogical to assume whales or cows are more important than tomato plants.
Ενδιαφέρον βιβλίο, χωρίς την υπερβολική φαντασία, ούτε επιστημονική, ούτε άλλη, όπου οι άνθρωποι έχουν καταφέρει να "κατακτήσουν" τους ωκεανούς και τα χωράφια είναι στη θάλασσα, οι φυτείες πλαγκτόν, τα κοπάδια για γάλα και κρέας διάφορες ράτσες φαλαινών και οι λύκοι αντίστοιχοι θαλάσσιοι κυνηγοί όπως οι όρκες και οι καρχαρίες...
Μπαίνει και κάποιο φιλοσοφικό ερώτημα σχετικά με το αν θα πρέπει να σκοτώνουμε τις φάλαινες για το κρέας τους (όπως γινόταν στο χρόνο του βιβλίου) και αν αυτό είναι σφαγή ή όχι...
Δε νομίζω ότι θα είναι από αυτά που θα μου μείνουν, αλλά δε μετάνοιωσα και για το χρόνο που αφιέρωσα, απλά περίμενα περισσότερα από έναν συγγραφέα όπως ο Clark.
I thought highly of this book when I first read it in the late fifties.
I enjoyed it again today.
It is a finely written examination of man's relationship with space, but even more with the oceans of planet Earth.
A space pilot, psychologically damaged by a near fatal accident in space, retrains as a submarine wildlife manager.
He succeeds, eventually rising to the director of his agency only to face a moral crisis.
Combines elements of love, friendship, heroism, and character.
A timely read today as we reinvigorate our manned-space program, but fail to provide a parallel effort in ocean sciences.
