https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2011.The_Dosadi_Experiment
Fans of all the Dune books (and I am one) worshipped the original (correctly and justly) and simply enjoy reveling in the world building.
Dosadi is much akin to Arrakis, a small world where a spartan, violently simplistic society breeds a possible change agent that may affect everything else.Finally, this makes me think that, along with the Dune novels, that Herbert belongs in the ranks of Dick, LeGuin, and Bradbury and the “soft science fiction” side of the house because unlike hard science fiction Heinlein, Asimov, and Clark, Herbert’s story lines revolve around legal, political.
The basic plot involves a secret experiment in which a group of humans and aliens are kidnapped and placed on a planet with a brutal environment in order to produce...( no spoilers).In tone, this story reminded me a lot of the later Dune books in so far as its focus on the psychological motivations of the characters and its significant exposition on the basis of the main characters' mind-set.
If, on the other had, you thought God Emperor of Dune had way too much psychological babble about the "Golden Path" then this book might frustrate you.
In fact, I'm convinced that a back-to-back re-reading of these two books would provide some seriously deep insight into the mythology/origins of some of the pivotal races in the Dune universe.See below my brief/oversimplified thoughts on why I'm convinved that 'The Dosadi Experiment' was, ultimately, Herebert's playground for working out many of his ideas that would later come to fruition in Dune series: ****SPOILER ALERT for this and Dune series books (especially Chapterhouse Dune)****(view spoiler)[The Benegeserit/Honored Maitres = Dosadi-The Dosadi are essentially tested and tempered by the crucible of their own planet-Jedrik is the product of a generations long breeding experiment-When Jedrik and Mckie join, there's the issue of being nearly driven crazy because of the difficulty in managing the linkage to multiple consciousnesses at once.
It is a novel that summarizes many of the themes that can be found in his works but also highlights some of the problems with his writing.
The lack of character development, the constantly changing viewpoints and the cognitive leaps that characterize the novel keep it from being a great work.
Herbert's grasp of the ideas he wants to discuss is unrivaled in science fiction but the way he translates them to the plot is less so.
I wouldn't recommend anybody new to Herbert to start here, but if you like his style this is certainly a novel you'll not want to miss.Full Random Comments review
This had the makings of a second "Dune", twelve years after publication of that ground-breaking book.
And all the elements are here: a richly-imagined world - Dosadi, a strong emotional focus - an enslaved population, a back story that goes back generations, and sinister forces to ramp up the suspense.
I thought this was the strongest part of Frank Herbert's books, the sense that he has a fully conceptualized story and each chapter is an integral building block.
Not much meandering.As with Dune, The Dosadi Experiment comes with a heavy dose of pseudo-mystical and religious undertones that have adherents wondering about their truths this far removed from first publication.
But that doesn't mean that you didn't leave "Whipping Star" without a whafuck?!
in your frontbrain, because I bet you did, and that's why Herbert is so fun to read."Dosadi" carries on the story of the Bureau of Sabotage's ugly duckling ninja-saboteur McKie who gets wrangled, through an infinitely fascinating and barely explained legal conundrum into investigating a planet some conspiracy between aliens set up to do some sinister shenanigans.
at the utter weirdness, the alienness of his words and worlds, others are lining up to see the latest Star Wars dumbness.
Or to use a review trope: Herbert tells a lot about finesse, but doesn’t show any.(...)On a thematic level, Herbert tries to tackle quite a lot of themes familiar to those who’ve read Dune: religious engineering, breeding systems that enhance the offspring, power, violence, mind melting.
The Dosadi is in this "other" category -- other in that it takes place in an entirely different universe than what occurs in said series.
X. McKie is a Saboteur Extraordinary and the protagonist of this book.The book itself revolves around a planet, "Dosadi" where some Humans and Gowachin (a frog-like alien species) are trapped in some sort of grand experiment.
The Gowachin legal system alone is worth reading this book once.Though this book takes place after Whipping Star, I did not read the first and yet had no trouble following the events of The Dosadi Experiment.
McKei has been sent in to clean it up, though the ultimate motive behind his mission is a mystery.Dosadi as a planet is like Dune on steroids, a punishingly deadly environment where simple survival has attuned its inhabitants to superhuman levels of competence.
The toadlike Gowachins have an attitude of 'respectful disrespect' towards the law, and McKie is the only human ever admitted to their ranks of Legums.
The courtroom drama is quite tense, but the whole thing exists to make Herbert's points about power, and how it is too dangerous to put in the hands of mere humans, but also disastrous to hand over to any bureaucratic entity or superhuman.
If you've ever wondered what Dune would be like with aliens and computers, well...
I was able to follow the basic arc of the plot, but I admit a lot of the details of the intrigues ("plans within plans within plans..." à la Dune) were hard to follow; it was also difficult to keep track of all the characters, factions, alien species, etc.The basic plot centers on McKie and Jedrik.
I've always loved the the weirdness of the Dune series, and Herbert kicks the weirdness into high gear with this one.
I am perhaps too lenient on this book, else this review will serve as a confession that I am too stupid to grok the Dosadi mindset.
As in Dune, Herbert attempts a merciless dissection of society.
This set an appropriately macro scale for the Byzantine plotting that followed, and suited the skill set of a science fiction author, a breed used to painting in broad strokes.
Here Herbert attempts to paint in subtler strokes, and he doesn't succeed.
Similarly, it was rare for the calculating motives of the Dosadi characters to stand out with real clarity.
So be prepared.I really enjoyed the story but the motivation of the main character was a little unclear to me.What I especially enjoyed was how the writing mirrored the story; The confusion you feel as a reader mirrors the confusion McKie feels when landing on Dosadi and trying to integrate into their society.
The brisk pace of the book mirrors the brisk mental pace of the Dosadi inhabitants.
Another author might have turned this into 3 or 4 books, there's a lot of world building going on in a small amount of space but a Dosadi would consider that wasteful and stupid.When I was recommended this book, I was told it mirrored the Palestinian conflict and I found a thoughtful blog post that explores the connection: http://h2oreuse.blogspot.com/2007/06/...
Fascinating insight nto the internecine underpinnings of modern urban culture and basic complexities of natural human subversion. Riveting Sci-Fi. Timeless in so many of it's implications. Applicable to today, the Tang Dynasty, the Obama Administration 2013.
Pure philosophical science fiction. Highly recommended
I was pleasantly surprised that it did.One part I liked/thought was hilarious: (view spoiler)[that McKie was described as looking like the frog-god of one of the races, and that because of this they gave him more deference than they would any other human.
(hide spoiler)]The ending [last few chapters] reminded me of Heinlein's I Will Fear No Evil, but only better than Heinlein's entire book.
(hide spoiler)]There were a lot of 'wheels within wheels' going on in the book; a lot of plots and sub-plots and twists and turns.
McKie must try to find a solution to this situation other than simply destroying the whole planet, which is what the gowachin are now inclined to do.This is, if nothing else, a quite original plot and set of circumstances, and Herbert shows his ability to handle multiple competing motivations in each of his characters and their respective societies.
Dosadi itself seems to be a confirmation of social Darwinism, which again confirms a certain set of assumptions in Herbert’s world-building.Which brings me back to “Dune,” which I am now inclined to see also as an argument about social Darwinism and the primacy of individuals over governing bodies or social groups.
Unlike last time I also tracked down and read Herbert's earlier ConSentiency writings (The Tactful Saboteur and Whipping Star) which are far more amateurish than The Dosadi Experiment but help to fill in the background.Herbert likes characters who are super smart and are alert/aware enough to handle themselves in tricky situations/conversations where normal mortals would have come seriously unstuck.
Maybe this accounts for the polarisation of reactions to the book.
If you take him as you find him his works are right up there.
Who in their right mind would want to be a Legum at the Gowachin bar?
I enjoy Science Fiction - this one is hard to explain, but for those who've read some of Frank Herbert's Dune series, this one is understandable and regularly surprising.An experiment by two races (human and one other) who have put "volunteers" of their population on to a planet, quarantined it, and allowed the two populations struggle to find their way under very tough survival conditions.The experiment has gone on secretly for decades, with the fear that this experiment is strictly illegal under the terms of intergalactic treaties of dozens of species.
Another attempt to control and create destiny gone awry.
This may be my favorite of Herbert's books outside of the Dune series and the Jesus Incident trilogy.
I almost wish that this universe he created, it could be expanded to a series.
Much is left to the imagination and the insinuation of the reader, in a way Herbert does early on with Dune.Many similar aspects between Dune and this universe are seen...
Very well written, similar in style to the Jesus Incident trilogy in how things are presented: enough to explain, but never enough to really understand without thinking for oneself.
Yes, it is obvious that he is a master writer with complex yet solid plotting and inspiring world building...
And it is true, that I have not yet read the Dune series, I have tried a few early short stories and the later novel "White Plague" and had to give up on those - just did not grab me!
'Cause man, I would really rather read better stories by less competent writers!!!In this novel, he has all the right elements for my kind of Scifi: a good protagonist, weird alien beings with bizarre alien physio-bodies and socio-political-ideals and such, yet...
Wow. I loved Frank Herbert in middle school, and I hadn't realized just how poor a writer he was. It's especially apparent in this and Whipping Star. Herbert was skilled at creating fascinatingly foreign and complex cultures, and then demonstrating through them the tedious ideas of 1950s-era business gurus which he seemed to hold in high regard. He reminds me of Hubbard in that respect. Of course, he's still a much better writer than that!
This was a book that I had thought I read in the past but turned out to be new to me (unless extreme CRS has set in). This was a solid space opera tale told by one of the past masters of this genre and was a really enjoyable story. I will need to pick up the first story with Jorj X. Mckie so I can see the past that is discussed in this one.4.5 stars for a really fun read. Recommended for any fans of space opera especially if you enjoyed Dune!!
I read this Frank Herbert novel out of sequence which is perhaps why I didn't get much out of it.
It's not so much that this book was bad, as that it was incredibly boring.
A complicated story that makes several leaps that I'm still shaking my head over, but an enjoyable story that leaves me wishing Frank Herbert had explored this universe.
Though the mix of different beings makes it baffling as a story: Panspechi + Calebans (by the way, the instantaneous interstellar travel sometimes cheapens the “close-to-home” feeling, like one can say Orwell’s “1984” novel is great for its accuracy of how surveillance grows enormously, or Gibbons’ “Neuromancer “ , but this future is so far away that it is like fantasy instead of Science) + Wreaves (sound terrifying!) + Palenki (fascinating creatures Herbert introduced in “Whipping Star” the prequel).McKie is fun to follow & to root for .
I’m all for open ended endings and ambiguity – but not in what is clearly a structural element that the main character clearly understands perfectly but that the reader is still confused as hell about even after finishing the book.Also, he shifts POV between paragraphs with little to no warning or designation that it’s happened.
Which drove me nuts.Having said all of that – I stuck it out to finish the book because he does have interesting sci-fi ideas and there’s hints of really cool, complex characters if you’re willing to overlook the POV issues and the deus ex machine plot structure.
I'm not sure why this was important, but it just pops up a few times.
The other was the purpose behind the Dosadi project (see spoiler tag below).
The idea is curious, but it felt like it came out of left field.
The process seems much like deus ex machina...
actually the Caleban species in general feels like this.Anyway, this is a very weird story but entertaining.
This is certainly not my favorite Herbert novel, but I believe it is the last one that I hadn't read.Spoiler: The purpose of the Dosadi experiment had to do with ego transfer between two beings.
As the story unfolds, we discover (view spoiler)[ that Dosadi is essentially an experimental prison colony, and 20 generations of life under these conditions have bred a race of people so hard, so ruthless, so resourceful, so fearless, so inured to suffering, violence and death, so terrifyingly capable and efficient in the arts of intrigue, treachery, and violence, and so unhindered by any traditional notions of morality, loyalty, or compassion, that if you combined the warriors of ancient Sparta with the hordes of Genghis Khan, they would still be innocent babes in arms compared to a Dosadi child.
Definitely better than Whipping Star, and set in the same ConSentiency universe that Herbert created.
Again, the world-building is the best part of the book; it's such a strength with Herbert that it becomes the thing that carries the book.
The plot is confusing, and some of the assumptions don't seem sensical.
But the reader wants to keep going just to learn more about the universe Herbert has created.
There isn't the universe depth of the Dune series; that's not possible in two short books and a novella.
But it's still quite impressive, and it covers a multitude of plot-related sins.
