https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/330721.Dreaming_of_You
Quick review finally completed 10/31/13 FANTASTIC!!! HUGE 5 Stars!Dreaming of You is one of the most beautifully told love stories I've read. It's full of vibrant and flawed characters that will touch your heart like few other characters will. There's nothing new I can say about this slightly heartbreaking yet wonderfully heartwarming story that hasn't already been said other than Derek Craven and Sara Feilding and their love story is why I read romance. It doesn't get better than this!
And it’s no wonder why this is such a sentimental, LK fan favorite...Derek Craven...*dreamy sigh*.Author Sara Fielding wants to observe the workings of London’s underground gaming halls for her latest novel, including the most famous gambling club of all, Craven’s, and the notorious man who runs it.
Derek Craven, the sexy, cynical, hardened cockney son of a prostitute, grew up on the rough streets of London and learned to make his way in the dangerous rookeries by any means necessary, eventually accumulating vast wealth and power by running a popular, thriving gaming club.
♥ This book was a BLOODY AMAZING READ !!
I want to take your innocence.
I want to ruin you for anyone else.” 
This book really has it all !
Fast paced and emotionally charged,Dreaming of you  manages to stay original and fresh to the very last page.Derek & Sara..
I adored them from the very first page.Even though they were eccentric and so different from each-other.Together they were just two perfect pieces of thepuzzle.“I didn't want to give you the one last part of myself that I couldn't take back.
It drove me mad, the thought that you would never know.” Would I recommend the book ?
Did my 5th re-read of this book yesterday. I used to love it--really, I did.But things changed. My views have changed, and I can't let the fact that Derek shagged that housewench as a sub for Sara go. It felt unclean for me, and was so downright disrespectful to women in general. No woman should be used for her body like that. Enough.And this delineation between pure, naive Sara and the unclean OTHER women? Yeah, that can go to hell. I'm sick of that shit.
This book is a beautiful love story.
Derek Craven is a self-made man who is not interested in love, and certainly not with a sheltered provincial spinster like Sara.
The beauty of this story is how deeply Derek comes to love Sara.
She might be rather plain and certainly unfashionable, but she has a great mind and a beautiful heart.
He earned this because of the fact that this man was so utterly affected by love for Sara, and how he cherishes her.
This book is in my top 10 of romances easily.Rachel Weisz as Sara Fielding[image error]Gerard Butler as Derek Craven[image error]
ALERT! ALERT! Cheating hero!Hero was not celibate during the separation. I will avoid this book since I had a BAD experience with the last book I read by Kleypas:Forever My LoveForever My Love? Oh, really?I don't know if people can understand this but, I CONSIDER that a hero is a cheater when AFTER he MEETS the heroine and HAS SEX with her, and maybe he started to feel "something" for her, he dumps her and sleeps with other woman/women. This separation was not for YEARS!I like my heros being celibate during the separation, PERIOD!
However, I must say looking back on it now I can see that it was an ok read but it also had some questionable moments like when he first sees her and does not help her out but she saves his life.
So he sends her away and eventually sleeps with another woman who looks like her and calling the heroines name the whole time.
This poor woman goes to visit the heroine to ask her to come back and tells her all about what he had done and how he is behaving.
AMOOOOOOO!!!Me ha encantado mucho mucho mucho, y estoy indecisa si fue mejor que el anterior o no porque siento que lo historia de Lily y Alex es un poco mejor pero en personajes me quedo con Derek y Sara son INCREÍBLES!!Derek es uno de los personajes más misteriosos y enigmáticos que he leído en histórica, es oscuro, cínico, peligroso y ladronzuelo que se robó mi corazón.
Pero Derek tiene lo suyo siento que faltaron páginas para descubrir más de él.
Liked this one. I always like a tortured hero ... and Derek Craven really is tortured. He feels that because of his upbringing he is unworthy of love, especially the love of a sweet person. Separately they had different strengths. Together they were complete. Loved catching up with Lily and Alex again. I loved the first book.Derek fights his attraction to Sara. She is not even his "type": a country maiden from a small village. He is used to the flirtatious ladies of the ton.  He was so far from
Liked this one.
I always like a tortured hero ...
and Derek Craven really is tortured.
He feels that because of his upbringing he is unworthy of love, especially the love of a sweet person.
Separately they had different strengths.
Together they were complete.
Loved catching up with Lily and Alex again.
I loved the first book.Derek fights his attraction to Sara.
Derek's breath touched Sara's throat in unsteady urges.
"Sometimes," he whispered, "I'm so close to you ...
and I'm still not close enough.
I want to share your breath ...
"I want you more each time I'm with you.
MARAVILLOSA. ❤Moví cielo y tierra para encontrar los libros de esta serie principalmente para conocer al famoso «Derek Craven», por lo cual mis expectativas estaban por las nubes. Bueno, ahora sí puedo decir que Dereck es uno de los personajes más complejos y mejores logrados de esta autora. Todo lo bueno (y lo malo) que se diga de él lo tiene absolutamente merecido. Peeeeeeero, debo confesar que el personaje de Sara me FASCINÓ. Y no solo por cómo logra «reformar» a nuestro descarriado Derek, si
❤️Moví cielo y tierra para encontrar los libros de esta serie principalmente para conocer al famoso «Derek Craven», por lo cual mis expectativas estaban por las nubes.
Bueno, ahora sí puedo decir que Dereck es uno de los personajes más complejos y mejores logrados de esta autora.
(…) Te quiero —Sara sintió que un ligero estremecimiento recorría el cuerpo de Derek—.
Te quiero —repitió—.
No nos mientas a los dos fingiendo que me dejas por mi bien.
Lo único que harás será negarnos a los dos la oportunidad de ser felices.
Puede que yo suspire por ti día y noche, pero al menos mi conciencia estará limpia.
Me ha enganchado tanto que llevaba el libro en el bolso a todas partes. Sara es genial, pero Derek... Derek es uno de esos protagonistas masculinos que se quedan en el recuerdo; complejo, oscuro y tentador. Aunque no es una novela corta, cuando termina casi te deja con ganas de seguir conociéndolo más, porque tiene innumerables capas y una gran historia detrás. Muy recomendable.
Derek Craven's got to be thee finest historical male that was ever written!!
Sara Fielding is a young writer from the country who visits the casino for research on her latest book, but what she finds is one *irresistible* man who doesn't want to give her the time of day.This is one of those books that once you read, you never forget.
It is book 2 of the Gambler series, but can be read as a standalone book.
This, along with Kleypas' "Again the Magic," are my all-time favorite books period.
*Originally read in 2011 and many times since then**Updated review*
I cannot believe how I have chosen to ignore a MAJOR big problem in this book the first time I read it.
Was pretty awesome – whatever.At least up until the point where LK makes Derek F**King Craven use one of his house-wenches to seek comfort while missing the heroine.
and all he could do, it seemed, was wait.- ''You're offended that I'm here," Sara said in a small voice."I'd rather stand in a bucket of coals than spend one night under the same roof with you!""You dislike me that much?"Derek's lungs began to work hard as he stared into her small, lovely face.
I’ve heard great things about Derek Craven, about how he’s Kleypas’ favourite hero that she’s ever written and now I understand why!
Derek easily stole my heart in  Then Came You and he broke it in  Dreaming of You!And then there’s Sara Rose Fieldings whom I just adore as well!
Derek Craven has definitely topped my list of favourite LK heroes along with Kev Merripen from the Hathaways, Sebastian St. Vincent from the Wallflowers and McKenna!
If you haven’t read anything by Kleypas before, get out of that hole you’ve been living in and start with the first book in the Gambler series, Then Came You or start with the Wallflowers prequel, Again the Magic!
I read this book at least once a year, and have been doing so for the past 5 years.
If you are a romance fan...this is an absolute MUST READ.
After 5 readings, I still am left with a further understanding of him....and he is absolutely endearing (to say the least).
Derek is a self-made man.
Seeing Derek for who he is, not excusing his past behavior, but understanding why he is how he is.
His love for her is so compelling and believable that it literally takes my breath away.
I can not say enough about this book....I read it again yesterday and am still smiling today.

Miss Sara Fielding, a celebrated but reclusive author, is researching her new book about gambling in the seedier parts of London a long way from her sedate live in the country. When she saves a man from being attacked she is astounded to realize that it is none other than the owner of the renowned gaming hall Mr Derek Craven. In repayment for saving his life he lets the spinsterish but adventurous Miss Fielding into his club for her research; however, the little “mouse” seems to be getting unde
And what makes it so good is Derek Craven, a truly brilliantly well rounded character, you get a glimpse of him in Then Came You but in this book he is outstanding; a truly unforgettable hero.
He has a chequered past, which I won’t reveal any of as I don’t want to spoil it, because of this he doesn’t think he is good enough for Sara; with this mixture of danger and vulnerability I challenge any woman not to fall instantly in love with him!Sara is another prime example of Ms Klepas's skill at creating unforgettable and well rounded character.
Me ha gustado mucho. Pero menos que el primero, por el que siento debilidadImposible leerlos por separado para ver la evolución del personaje de Dereck CravenMe han gustado los dos, pero el que más (contracorriente) SAra. Por esa bondad, esa valentía y ese romper moldes de mujer independiente que es un pequeño homenaje a las escritoras de a épocaEs una novela lleva de simbolismos, una historia muy bonita con unos personajes que atrapan,Lectura imprescindible, aunque yo me quedo con Lily y Alex
Me llena de vida esta mujer porque me ha regalado un libro que me gustó incluso más que el anterior (aunque de un modo distinto).Le doy las cinco estrellas, no porque creo que sea perfecto (no lo es), de hecho, al principio no estaba muy segura de que me fuera a gustar, sentía que faltaba algo, no encontraba la chispa; pero una vez que llega la fiesta de máscaras, todo escala en la dirección correcta y la historia se vuelve una cadena de emociones y cosas bonitas que me tuvieron a punto de llorar por lo menos dos veces.
its never ok to sleep with someone whose already married and his/her deniability of it by using excuses from their past habits!This did not seem to bother other readers, but it did bothered me and even the characters in the book seem accepting for not addressing Derek's pervasive and distasteful lifestyle of sexual indulgences throughout the entire book and I do not wish to read in explicit details about him having sexual encounter with his mistress...
After finding out who Derek is, Sara asks in the name of research for her next book to view his gambling club but, when sparks fly between them Derek and Sara they both face obstacles as they fall in love with each other.
Derek is complete at times, but hides and runs away from Sara as he starts to fall in love with her, Sara shows a great strength as she opens her heart to Derek knowing he may not love her, still willing to take a risk and take a chance on love.
Lisa Kleypas is one of my favorite Historical Romance authors, but based on this I am not sure I want to go further back than her Wallflowers series. The writing style is still the same, which I like, but the insta-romance is a downer and there weren't any "fun" interactions like we later see in her Hathaways series (and I hope to see with West in her book coming out next year, Devil's Daughter). This one also felt a bit slow at times. This was good, but I know this author wrote much better later on.
3.5 stars.
I liked but didn't love this sweet HR about Sara the apparently mousy writer who is really quite a strong and interesting person, and Derek the poor Cockney orphan made good.
Derek has had a very tough life but he has pulled himself up by his bootstraps and is now highly successful.
On the surface, they don't seem like an obvious couple, but they fall deeply in love and it's soon clear they were meant for each other.
There are a few twists and turns to the plot, including a suitably twisted and evil baddie who I ended up feeling a bit sorry for.The characters felt a little underdeveloped to me, but overall I did enjoy the book.
Es que es MARAVILLOSO, MA.RA.VI.LLO.SO y cada vez que lo leo, me enamora más
Pero en este libro comenzamos a ver su verdadera personalidad, muy compleja y llena de complejos, valga la redundancia.Incapaz de amar por miedo a ser abandonado, Derek hace todo lo posible por alejar de él a aquellas personas/mujeres por las que empieza a sentir algo más que atracción y deseo, ya que no se cree merecedor de ellas.
Y ahí es cuando aparece Sarah, la verdadera protagonista de la historia y que para mí, ha eclipsado por completo a Derek.Decidida, valiente, inocente, amable y con las ideas bien claras desde un principio, ha sido una protagonista de las que me gusta leer.
The slowness and petty villain (and if you go to my spoilers section at the bottom of the review at "Love triangle?
(view spoiler)[Sara is pretty much engaged to a guy she has known for a long time since the beginning of the book (Perry).
So yes, it’s a love triangle technically, even though it’s obvious whom she wants more.Because she is promised to another at the beginning of the book, but kisses, gropes, and almost has sex with another guy during that time, there is cheating.
(view spoiler)[The ending is pretty damn sweet and emotional.
Unlike Lily, she seems to like men, and she's actually nice to Derek, whereas Lily wants to keep her husband, Alex, as a pet.
Plus, Sara shot a man to save Derek's life, which is badass, for a country girl!An aspect of this book that I really liked was that, for once, it was the hero who had the stalker!
I do like her, but...I'm generally more interested in the man, and this was very much Sara's story, despite the fact that Derek was the interesting character.
Derek's "rejection" of Sara got old after a time, because the whole "I'm not good enough for my heroine" is beyond old.
"You have to leave, Sara ... because I want to hold you like this until your skin melts into mine. I want you in my bed, the smell of you on my sheets, your hair spread across my pillow. I want to take your innocence. God! I want to ruin you for anyone else."   Lisa Kleypas is my favorite HR author. I just love her books. And Dreaming of You was great. It reminded me of Devil in Winter, probably because of the whole gambling house, and Derek thinking he wasn’t good enough for Sara. Derek remin
It reminded me of Devil in Winter, probably because of the whole gambling house, and Derek thinking he wasn’t good enough for Sara.
So broken that he thought himself undeserving of pure and innocent Sara.
There were many wonderful moments between Sara and Derek, but I must admit there were parts that I didn’t enjoy.
The chemistry between Derek and Sara was so intense, you could feel their longing for each other.
Pure Lisa Kleypas greatness!
If you have not read Lisa Kleypas yet, you are missing out.
Her historical romances are just wonderful and a must read for all who loves this genre.
Segunda entrega de la serie “Jugadores” en que precisamente el protagonista es uno de los personajes secundarios que destacó en el primer libro, y que siempre fue caracterizado por una personalidad extremadamente compleja.
Por lo mismo, la gracia de esta historia está en que por fin conoce a la persona capaz de quebrar todos los muros que había construido para protegerse.
Ese proceso está tan bien desarrollado por la autora que es imposible parar de leer.
Lisa Kleypas definitivamente siempre sorprende con personajes originales e historias inmensamente emotivas, que además acompaña con una buena dosis de intrigas y escenas íntimas que encajan perfectamente.
I'm rounding to 4 stars.I'll begin by saying that LK's earlier works are definitely from a different era.
Perhaps one that doesn't allow romance authors to get too explicit with their love scenes (unfortunately).
Now, I know LK can write pretty hot love scenes.
But her earlier works, at least for me, are not terribly fulfilling in the love scenes department, hence 1 star off.The other .25 star off is for all the pages I skipped trying to get back to the two main characters and their relationship development.
I felt like Ivo Jenner and Joyce were given too much text, as well as Sara's ex-fiance.
