https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/21727.A_Simple_Plan
I wasn’t really sure who was collecting that week, but a couple of questions later and the die hard hockey fans steered me in the right direction and the envelope made its way back into the right hands.But as I said these are little tests, how I wonder would I respond if the payoff was a lot bigger?Well Hank Mitchell, his brother Jacob and Jacob’s friend Lou are given just that opportunity when they accidently come across a small aircraft that has crashed in the woods on the outskirts of their Ohio community.
The three men agree to sit on the money until they're sure no one is looking for it.
Hank wants to protect his brother but also wants the money.
Much like the Ruins, I wasn't sure how any of the characters would live much longer at the 50% mark.The series of revelations near the end spell out the book's message: Crime doesn't pay.
If I ever find a bag of money in the woods and I have people with me, we're turning it in to the cops.
Where's the next book, Smith?
Hank calculates there might be three million dollars here.Jacob was still crouched there, the money in his hand.
"We could wait a while, then leave town, start up new lives.""A million apiece," Lou said.
Hank makes Jacob and Lou promise not to speak a word to anyone, and he agrees not to tell Sarah.
She suggests Hank take Jacob with him when he returns to the plane, in case he or Lou spot Hank's stationwagon out there and gets suspicious, but not to tell them about returning part of the money.
No longer holding leverage over Lou, Hank tells him that he's stashed the money upstate and will divide it up after Sarah's delivery.
Trying to make it look like Sonny and Nancy were having an affair was an unnecessary risk that could have easily backfired.• Speaking of that shotgun murder spree, I’ve read this three or four times, but I just realized that Smith made some critical errors with Hank's actions that should have got him caught.
First, Hank called Sarah after Lou and Nancy were dead, and she comes up with the plan about involving Sonny.
If the cops pulled the phone records (Which seems likely at the house of a quadruple murder.) they’d see that call to Sarah and have a good idea that Hank was lying.
If characters always made the right decisions or the smartest ones, there would be absolutely no drama and why the hell would anyone want to read about people who do all the right things?!I think this was a wonderful story about how all of us are capable of terrible things if circumstances were there, such as greed, fear, the need to survive, or simply by just making BAD DECISIONS.
That one decision begins a terrible domino effect that leads to dire consequences.
It's like a classic tragedy where the end is inevitable.Great book!
Tightly written with great pacing!
If you found four million dollars, what choices would you make?
Would you lie, cheat, possibly kill?What makes this an effective thriller is that all of these questions are addressed at one time or another by the narrator and choices are made based on the given circumstances.
The narrator tries to deal with the fallout from his decisions - rationalize his actions and bury the guilt.
Coping and trying to move on, making excuses, but always with the memory of heinous acts just below the surface.
This incident illustrates why Scott Smith's novel "A Simple Plan" is unquestionably the scariest book I've ever read.
Hank is a midwestern accountant with a wife and a baby on the way, a real swell fella, anyone would agree.
One Winter day, Hank takes a ride with his no-account brother, Jacob, and Jacob's pal, Lou. An accident sends the three trudging off into the woods, where they happen upon a small airplane that has crashed and been covered over with snow.
It seems painfully simple, but Hank doesn't take into account his brother's impulsive stupidity, or Lou's desperate need to have his share RIGHT NOW.
The plot of the novel is simple enough, but what makes it unique is that it gives us a chance to see inside the mind of a person whose life has been completely turned upside down in one moment, and see how far he is going to go as the situation develops.
It's the mind that is most fascinating in this novel, the mind of Hank, his wife, his brother and Lou. What will they do with the bag?
I liked this book a lot!It was very easy to identify with Hank, the protagonist of this story.
That's exactly what happened here, It was very easy to take the next step with Hank, and then the next, and so on.
The last quarter of this book turned into a nightmare from which I could not pull myself away.
I did feel that the last scenes slightly stepped over the line of believability and for that I deducted one star.Overall, I enjoyed this story quite a bit and would recommend it to anyone that enjoys a fast paced thriller with some blood and gore.
2.5-3/5*how to get away with murder ...or commit even more unnecessary murders ;pένα απλό σχέδιο που έμπαζε από παντού νερά ή αλλιώς το άκρων άωτον της χαζομάρας
This is one of those books where you genuinely can't stop reading and need to find out what is going on and how things are going to end.
If they then added a bit of pressure to that saying that some of you started acting strange or whisper together and make you feel paranoid how would you react?
Maybe folks like me aren't meant for this life of deceit!This is both a well written story with complex characters.
One of the best I've read this year and in a long while.
Oh well." I realize money does weird things to people but this guy and his wife's reactions and actions are not believable on any level--while sure, maybe there are some people who might--MIGHT--do some of the things these two do, I do not believe for one moment that there would ever be two "normal" people on earth who would do what these two did over this money.
Then there is the whole segment where he describes in great detail how he could kill his infant and then his wife (oookay, as if the book weren't already atrocious enough we get to read that).
For all their chaos and violence, everything seems inevitable, everyone acts logically, and yet, without fail, things go terribly, terribly wrong.
It's impossible not to imagine yourself in his characters' places, wondering if you would have made similar decisions, acted in a similar way, and still come to the same calamitous end.
He's accompanied by his brother, Jacob, and Jacob's deadbeat friend, Lou. Together they decide on a "simple plan"; that is, take the money, but don't spend it until the plane is discovered and no one reports it missing.
If anything goes wrong, they plan to burn the money instantly.
This book was probably THE most painful reading experience I have ever had.
I actually finished it - more because of my own stubbornness than anything.
I guess I would have to liken it to the first few weeks of American Idol where the whole point is to show you the people that are really bad.
I am just too sensitive for that - I feel the pain and embarrasment they should be feeling but in some cases don't.
In the case of this book the pure idiocy that these characters go through after finding this money pains me in the same way.
But make one doomed mistake.
telling a wife of the discovery, this sets off a chain of events leading in only one direction, bad.
A Simple Plan is a novel that slowly but surely grips, it unfolds with an inevitable and doomed spiral of events, through murder, betrayal and mass killing.
From its deceptively simple beginning, to its horrific and surprising conclusion, it made for a decent read with pretty good descriptive skills, but all too predictable in the end.Sam Raimi's film is also a solid adaptation, just not as good as the book.
Μιλάμε για ένα τρομερό θρίλερ που δείχνει με γλαφυρό τρόπο τι μπορεί να κάνουν τα λεφτά και ότι μπορεί να οδηγήσουν απλούς ανθρώπους σε τραγικές αποφάσεις ή να βγάλουν από μέσα τους τον σκοτεινό εαυτό τους.
Παραμονή πρωτοχρονιάς τρεις άντρες, ο αφηγητής της ιστορίας Χανκ Μίτσελ, ο αδερφός του Τζέικομπ και ο φίλος του αδερφού του, Λου, προσπαθώντας να αποφύγουν μια αλεπού που βρέθηκε μπροστά στο αυτοκίνητο όπου επέβαιναν, χτυπάνε σ'ένα δέντρο.
Τίποτα το σοβαρό, αλλά ο σκύλος του Τζέικομπ βγαίνει από το αυτοκίνητο για να κυνηγήσει την αλεπού και οι τρεις άντρες πάνε να βρούνε τον σκύλο.
Scott Smith really know how to propel a plot, while never losing sight of the human frailties at the heart of his story. This is really really well-done.
Well that was bleak.Hank, his brother and his brothers friend are walking in the woods when they come across a downed plane. Inside is a corpse and 4 million dollars. Now what would you do? Take the money or report it to the police? Tough decision.This novel is all about greed, tough decisions and how making one bad one can set the ball rolling, until complete chaos ensues, which is exactly what happens. The novel is a slow burn up until a certain point and then it escalates and never looks back. Its bold and brutal and i loved it.
Το βιβλίο έπεσε τυχαία στα χέρια μου και νιώθω τυχερός που έγινε αυτό.Ξεκινάει δυναμικά και από σελίδα σε σελίδα γίνεται όλο και πιο πολύπλοκο, όλο και πιο αγχωτικό.Άραγε θα έρθει η λύτρωση για τον ήρωα?
Θα καταπιαστώ με την ηθική πλευρά του ζητήματος?Εσείς τι θα κάνατε αν έπεφταν στα χέρια σας 4.800.000 ευρώ, τα οποία είναι προιόν εγκλήματος?Μέχρι που θα φτάνατε για να τα κρατήσετε?Θα είχατε ηθικούς φραγμούς ή θα κάνατε τα πάντα, θα γινόσασταν ανεξέλεγκτοι?Θα σχεδιάζατε την μελλοντική σας ζωή πάνω σε προδοσίες και πτώματα ανθρώπων?Μία συγκλονιστική ιστορία, μία ιστορία που ξεκινάει γλυκά με την εμφάνιση των χρημάτων και την ουτοπική υπόσχεση για ένα ευκολότερο μέλλον και σε ταξιδεύει.
Ύστερα από αυτό το βιβλίο, πιστεύω πως όλοι μας πρέπει να ξανασκεφτούμε τα πράγματα που πραγματικά αξίζουν στην ζωή.Την αγάπη,την φιλία, την οικογένεια, την ανθρωπιά.
The best thriller I know! Scott Smith managed to create a nail-bitingly tense thriller against a backdrop that feels totally ordinary and believable and at the same time bring in and describe moral dilemmas, actions and consequences in a way that that equals Joseph Heller. Make sure to watch the very good film after reading the brilliant book!This is for the translated book that I read the first time around, the text is really good and I would whole-heartedly recommend this edition.
Excellent escapism! A man, his brother, and his friend discover a downed single-engine plane in the woods outside of town. The lone pilot is dead and in the back seat is 4 million dollars in cash.A roller coaster tale ensues as the three try to decide what to do with the money and events just snowball out of control. Written in the 1st person, I felt like a co-conspiritor with them.I wish I could find more novels like this one. It was so good I almost ate it.
Actually I saw the movie. I can see the movie after I've read the book but not vice-versa.Actually I should have never clicked read-but once again I don't know how to get rid of it now. Sorry -embarassed emoticon
What makes the first half of the novel is so devastatingly good is its simplicity.
Smith comes across as a natural, plainspoken storyteller and the 'simple plan' of the title makes for a tale of suspense grounded in character in which the tension mounts, relentlessly, to an almost unbearable level.
That same simplicity allows the story to achieve an almost mythic resonance, deepening into a timeless tale of human folly and moral erosion.
It's all so good that the flawed nature of the second half of the book is that much more disappointing.
Smith does close the novel on a grace note- the final few pages are quietly haunting.
Hank, his brother Jacob, and Jacob's best friend find the wreck of a small plane in the woods.
They devise a plan- stash the money away for 6 months, if no one comes looking for it they'll split it up.
Hank starts off as the level headed one and tries to keep his accomplices in check but this gets harder and harder to do.
Will they be able to keep the money and get away with the crime?
The best part of the book is following Hank.
He's the car crash you can't look away from.Overall a great story but I didn't get the suspenseful page-turner I expected until the end.
A simple plan is a simple story in which things go terribly wrong.A good read and makes you wonder how normal people can be capable of committing serious crimes through greed, fear and in order to survive.Bad decisions are made that cause life changing consequences.
Hauntingly beautiful, a true tale of horror about being human. Extremely well written and just excellent.
I am sure part of the reason I loved this so much is because I read it in the wake of a truly disappointing read (also a thriller) approved by the masses (i.e. NY Times Best Seller List).
The writing was bad, the plot was far-fetched and contrived and the characters were depthless.
The writing was truly excellent (for being a thriller at least...
This book is a stark reminder of the common man's tendency and compulsion to endlessly justify his contemptible actions in furtherance of his own self-interest at the expense of others.Recommending this perfect thriller to everyone I can.
I predicted each and every move of our anti-hero beforehand and was waiting for Scott Smith to catch-up.
I don’t generally try to anticipate anything consciously whenever I am reading fiction as it would suck the joy out of it.
The story was that predictable.
It seemed to me that Scott Smith had only one solution for the plight of his anti-hero.
Also, I thought that the book was way too lengthy.
It’s not the taut crime-thriller one might expect by reading the blurb.
It’s unpredictable and not needlessly lengthy, just how an ideal crime fiction book should be.3 stars
I'm not surprised by the "loved it!" "Hated it!" Reviews here.
I absolutely hated it for all of the same reasons other "hated it" reviewers listed.
The story line is one bad, horrible, stupid decision after another.
One reviewer said "well yeah, that's where you get the drama!" But normally those bad decisions are not so direct.
Usually a character makes a bad decision and can't see the consequences, not here.
For those of you who loved it can you tell me what it was you liked?
His wife's dress was green.
His wife was wearing a blue dress...blah, blah, blah.
This book gets 5 stars from me because it was thought provoking and also extremely gripping.
This was one of those books I stayed up until the early hours reading.
My opinion of what I would do changed drastically by the end of the book and actually had an impact in my life about the relationship between money and happiness Did I agree with all of the choices made by the main characters?
It was a little dark but nothing too disturbing (I am sensitive to books that are too graphic/dark in tone)
