https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/357922.Dream_Park
This book is not very deep.
It has little artistry.
It will not be able to help us.But holy crow is it fun.This is, for my money, the most sheer fun I've ever had reading a book.
It's absolute popcorn fare for the dorkiest gamer, trekkie, cosplayer, or other form of geek with which you might be familiar.
In addition to the sheer indulgenece of the setting (a nerdtastic mixture of the Holodeck and GenCon), there's the undeniable message: victory, in the end, does not go to the swiftest, the strongest, nor even the fastest.
May the best gamer win.
This book is pure wish fulfillment for the D&D/fantasy crowd.
(Darn it, the back of the book review quote is "Unadulterated wish fulfillment".
No originality points for me.) The Dream Park setting is an Xtreme Disneyland.
If you are good enough at winning these adventures you can become a star and make a living off the videos of your games.I can't say anything else is special.
The adventure is competent.
But I think unless the Dream Park setting appeals to you, there's no reason to read this.
First of all, Kudos for the incredible cover art by Rowena on the Phantasia Press first limited edition... You can be forgiven if you think the cover art is a bit campy, for Dream Park is a campy novel. Written during the height of the Dungeons & Dragons craze, it depicts an amusement park in which the participants role-play in an incredibly technologically advanced environment. There's a murder involved but the fun for the reader is in escaping into this world and wishing such a park actual
First of all, Kudos for the incredible cover art by Rowena on the Phantasia Press first limited edition...
You can be forgiven if you think the cover art is a bit campy, for Dream Park is a campy novel.
Written during the height of the Dungeons & Dragons craze, it depicts an amusement park in which the participants role-play in an incredibly technologically advanced environment.
There's a murder involved but the fun for the reader is in escaping into this world and wishing such a park actually exists.
It may not be great literature, it is certainly a lot of fun.
There's the obvious - people smoking indoors in the workplace – and the subtle.Dream Park was written when RPGs like Dungeons & Dragons were relatively new, and it was inspired by those games and by the Society for Creative Anachronism.
The titular Dream Park is a Disneyland for gamers, where players can live out their games in the world's most elaborate LARP (written before LARPing was really a thing).
The security chief of Dream Park realizes one of the members of a current high-level game taking place must be the killer.
I might give The California Voodoo Game, written much later, a try rather than read Dream Park again.
I wouldn't rate this book as high as I did when I first read it a little over thirty years ago, because now I notice more of it's flaws particularly some of the early dialogue between Griffin, Harmony and Skip being horrendous.
It reminded me of cheap 1950's SF movies.
Also long ago it was one of the first novels I'd read about fantasy gaming something I was very much into.
I've since read many more novels on the subject that I feel are much better, last year's Ready Player One is a prime example of a more exciting and interesting story.
It brought to mind several other books and movies, most notably "Jurassic Park" (another Crichton book) and this one, perhaps less popular and memorable, but deals with similar themes of the lengths and risks humans will take, technologically, simply to be entertained...I've never been into gaming, both computer or role play.
Like Disney World, the park offers rides and attractions but its major draw is simply called The Game.
Deaths are simulated, and those that die early are simply brought back to Dream Park debriefing quarters to watch the rest of the game on TV.
The most bizarre thing about it is that when I first read it in 1981, it was SCIENCE FICTION!
it's not science fiction any more.
It's a murder mystery set in a high tech move/TV theme park that also runs a televised LARP reality show.
actors in special effects makeups...
computers for communication and recordkeeping...Hell, the actors use tiny earphone headpieces with concealed voice pickups to get their lines from Game Central, and to keep in touch with the main computer.
Now, it's a Bluetooth headset.Dream Park is visionary, in that it was the first example of "reality TV" that I'd ever heard of.
ZOMBIES!!!D&D!!!
But with it happening in a fantasy roleplaying theme park, it sounded fun.It gets off to a bit of a slow start, with lots of exposition and back story (which was pretty much the norm at the time it was written), but once we get into the game things pick up nicely.There are several major subplots weaved into the main narrative and it is skilfully done.In the beginning, there are only about 3 characters that feel distinct, but because there are so many I can forgive this minor issue.By about the middle of the book we have a strong connection with the 8-10 characters who are the major players and everyone is distinct with their own quirks, voice, and mannerisms.The plot took a bit for me to wrap my head around, as it is a bit convoluted at times.
Gee, did I love this one when it first appeared!
It was a science fiction book and a murder mystery and a gaming manual and had zombies and the exotic South Seas adventure setting and...
I guess it was a book written more for its projected audience (fans and other such folks like me), than anything that had ever been done before.
The plot was an intricate blend of what was happening in the game and outside of it, and the role-playing characters were also fascinating in and out of character.
It spawned a whole generation of imitations, but it's still one of the best.
Read originally as a teen, this murder mystery in a live action RPG land is a lot of fun, even if the mystery has flaws.Set in the near future, this book was a little visionary at the time.
LARP (live action roleplay) at the time was either styrofoam boffers or rock-paper-scissors.
Still, at the time, this book had no equal, and I eagerly awaited the two sequels.
Also at the time, this created enough of a stir that a Dream Park game group was incorporated, with the intention of making Dream Park a reality.
Worth reading, and looking forward to rereading the first two sequels.
I was a bit worried re-reading Larry Niven's and Steven Barnes' "Dream Park." I initially read the book way back when it was release around 30 years ago and really like it.
Because of the nature of the book, I was very worried that the advances in online gaming and computers over the intervening three decades would have made the book seem silly.
I rate it (even after all these years) at a Very Good 4 stars out of 5.The books in the "Dream Park" series are:1.
Dream Park2.
The Barsoom Project (Dream Park)3.
The California Voodoo Game: A Dreampark Novel (Dream Park)4.
The Moon Maze Game (Dream Park)
I read this book the first time right after the book was released, and loved it.
Funny, that in my memory of the story, it was very similar to Jurassic Park, and I was quite surprised to realize that the premise was a actually a gaming fantasy park (as in Dungeons & Dragons) and not prehistoric dinosaurs!That makes sense when I think back to what everyone around me was into at the time, and explains why I probably liked it so much.
Is it odd then that I liked it almost just as much this time around?
A fun read with an imaginative view of the future of entertainment and amusement parks. Nothing terribly deep in terms of exploring the human psyche or anything but decent character development and an intriguing murder mystery. Solid, enjoyable read and it fit perfectly in my cross-country flight. I just found out there are more books in the same universe but this story is satisfyingly self-contained if you're not interested in getting involved in a series.
Although I've never been involved in role-playing, I really enjoyed this book and loved the idea of an amusement park entirely dedicated to real-life "gaming". I was pretty impressed when I saw that the book had been written in 1981, it's aged particularly well! A great read, I can't wait to read other books written by Larry Niven!
I read this years ago, but re-read it quickly. Still a lot of fun, if a bit dated in the world of WOW and EverQuest. I still want to read the rest of the series though, so I guess that says that it's worth it.
This book was a RPGamer's dream. A vividly told story with good characters, but the setting... oh man. LARP taken ten steps forward and made into a world-wide sporting event that creates "champions" the way pro football does today.
Read this when I was 15 and blew my mind. Complete nostalgia 3 star even though it was filled with more absurdity than I remembered. Also the ending was a truly WTF moment. Contemplating reading the series though I'll be more critical.
One of my favorites. As a teenager, I loved the fantastic idea of going on a real RPG adventure. Couple that with a murder mystery and you have a sure winner.Loved it then, love it now.
One of my all time favorite fantasy sci fi books. I wish there really was a Dream Park.
I tripped over this at the library the other day. I remember loving it madly as a teenager, so I thought a re-read was in order. Ultimately, not up to par with my recollection, but still enjoyable.
On the one hand it’s built around a very interesting murder mystery in which the authors play fair and give you all the pieces you need to solve the murder.
(I didn’t solve it, but I was left feeling like I could have done so.) On the other hand, it’s the story of a role playing game played live-action with incredibly sophisticated technology—a clear forerunner to many modern novels built around virtual-reality-based games.
This is an intricately plotted novel in which the role-playing adventure is built upon the most interesting mythology.
Ahead of its timeDream Park is thrilling and frustrating at the same time. It's vision of virtual reality and LARPing predates both concepts in the forms as we now know them by about 4 years and the cargo cult magic system that forms the foundation of the game world still remains original. However the book's murder mystery is half-baked at best and an unfortunate air of 80's misogyny taints the entire story. Still, some of the book's concepts still inspire me (as a VR experience creator and former Imagineer) even to this day.
A lot of great stuff came to be as a result of this book and a lot of the gaming culture that surrounds it.
But the story itself is just kind of underwhelming.
Imagine a fantasy story where the reader is guaranteed that none of the characters are in any danger.
Also, there is a weak mystery that you can't help but wish was not there at all.
In all, this book is kind of like watching other people fantasy role play without participating yourself.
Seems a bit contrived to watch, but you know the participants are having a lot more fun that the viewers.
In a virtual adventure park during a match someone commits murder, and a security employee enters the game undercover to sniff out the killer.Entertaining D&D-style battles as the undercover agent tries to find the killer. Not as good as Ready Player One or CTRL ALT Revolt! but still fun with interesting characters.
The premise and setting of this book were very intriguing. Dream Park could be a forerunner for West World, but with different mechanics for creating the “illusion characters “. The book was cringe inducing due to the language used towards women, gay people, little people,and sexuality in general. I nearly dumped it, but hung on to see the author’s vision of the grand finale.
I remember reading this book a couple of years after it first came out (beginning of the 80's). It was a great romp, and at the time there was nothing else like it. A few things are dated by now, but since the characters were engaging in live-action roleplay instead of computer gaming, it wears well.
Love Dream Park. This is a reread for me, but read it on two successive nights and devoured it completely. It's a great book for gamers, and sci-fi fans, an lovers of pulp adventures to for that matter. Or turner of the first degree. 🙂
The concepts and ideas are better than the actual writing, although this imaginative SF adventure is plenty entertaining. Like a mix of 'Ready Player One' and Westworld, with a murder mystery thrown in as well.
This one was recommended to me. Ok read but I have discovered that I don't particularly like books about role playing. 😳
