https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/323823.Rhinoceros_and_Other_Plays
Rhinoceros.How can you pass up a title like that?Ionesco, a man who spent his life in Romania and France, is an exceptional writer.This collection was of his plays, but he writes prose and poety also.There were three or four plays in this collection, but the most outrageous one was ‘Rhinoceros.’It can be understood on many levels.We can find several sentiments that recur throughout these four plays.His thought carriage contains; a disdain for material things, a lack of trust in the communication process, an agitated awareness of banality, a need for solitude at times, the absolute absurdity of the human disease, a distaste for ideological conformity, a lucid reduction of reality that is both frightening and fantastic, and much more.Is ‘Rhinoceros’ an allegory or sorts about Nazism, which he lived through?
And how did the victims rationalize away their free thought and systematically allow themselves to take fatal showers and chose the suicidal paths created for them?Remember Ceaușescu?
Rhinoceros is a brilliant allegorical theater play, subversive of social pressure, mass brainwash and animalism. The advocacy not to conform to an animalistic society puts the audience to a great moral test. Some of the questions that arise during this magnificent work of literature are: To conform or not to conform? To rebel or not to rebel? It makes one wonder about one’s own role in society and about the madness of the social rank. Brilliant.
Wow. How is it that I never read Rhinoceros before?
Regret doesn’t quite capture how I feel now.
Rhinoceros is about conformity and uniformity in all their possible guises—political, social, cultural, commercial, religious, artistic: you name it—and how they can creep up and overtake society before people take notice; before it is too late.
The Leader is a farce about sycophantic admiration that has the feel of a surreal Bob & Ray sketch set in a totalitarian state.
The Future Is in Eggs or It Takes All Sorts to Make a World is a weird, funny, tale of two families chattering their generations that has the feel of an LSD-laced Hee-Haw sketch ending with a serious point about humanity.
My father suggested that I read this play in the late summer of 1983.
I don't know what my old man was thinking, but as hard as this is to believe, I'm pretty sure he was not expecting that after reading this play I would be encouraged to be even more stubborn and flagrant in my eccentricity...
Every young person who feels like a misfit or an outcast should read this play and take heart- as a punk rock band (whose name I don't remember) said, circa 1987: "Most People Are Dicks!".
Delightfully absurd.
I don't care what Ionesco was trying to say with this play, although I think there are definitely some ideas about conformity and independence in there somewhere.
It doesn't matter--this is one of those experiences where I feel like trying to pin labels on it and decipher all its possible meanings only reduces it.
I just enjoyed the absurdity of it.As far as the other plays, I have to say that I didn't care for them at all.
But, since the reason for buying the book would be mainly for Rhinoceros anyway, I think it's safe to give four stars for the entirety, as that's what I'd rate the top billing.
George Orwell could not have put it better: << All animals are equal, but some animals are more equal than others>>When you live in a supposedly egalitarian society and yet you see yourself at the bottom of the pyramid and the fat pigs at the top, you plunge in the middle of the Irrational and you do not react in the proper way when you hear about the rhinoceros running in the street.Well, come to think of it does sound funny and I should have taken more of the impact in.
And like ALL works of this genre, it has a lot of deeper ideas to present to the theater-goer (and reader of the book).
Although read 30+ years ago, this one book has influenced how I see the world at times.
Read the book and judge for yourself.
It's still a good read.But I do LOVE "Theater of the Absurd".
This type of theater has also influenced my sense of humor.
Sometimes we need such humor to see the weakness within ourselves, do a little soul-searching, change and grow.
(But I am an optimist, which is different from this genre of humor.)
I only read Rhinoceros, it was pretty good, and really funny.
My favorite character was the logician.
This is part of the book, but it doesn't really spoil anything:My favorite part was when the logician said (This is not an exact quote) "Cats have four legs, your dog has four legs, therefore, your dog is a cat." I love this because the logician is not very good at what he does, which make the book really funny.
But all in all, it was and really good and I do plan to read the other two shorter plays.
I really enjoyed reading all three of these plays, but would love to see any of them, most especially "Rhinoceros," on stage. For these plays, I think actually seeing their stories unfold live would be more enjoyable than just reading the texts.
With outrageous comedy and unforgettable imagery, Ionesco tackles the most serious subjects: blind conformity, totalitarianism, grief and death. Truly witty, and bold.
Ionesco cleverly and articulately makes his point. His characters are comically absurd and telling.
very absurd very true. ARE THOSE RHINOCEROS?
"[...] you'll never become a rhinoceros, really, you won't... you haven't got the vocation!"Hopefully, thankfully.
The turn from comic to paranoic over the course of the play is really effective, and the dialogue of the first two scenes is swift and funny and does great work guiding us into the lives of these characters and their relationships. I could do without the philosophical grandstanding that dominates the final act.
I loved the writing style.
I just thought Berenger's character went a little sour here on a writing standpoint.
However, this scene is still pretty good, just not amazing like the beginning and middle.So overall, I loved "Rhinoceros." It was a hilarious, bizarre, and terrific play that exceeded my expectations by a whole lightyear.
I thought I was not going to really enjoy this play, but alas, I loved it.
So, if you are able to obtain and love this type of bizarre humor and story, than I can HIGHLY recommend it.
I've had a copy of Ionesco's Rhinoceros on my own shelf for years so it seemed fitting to start my absurdist theater/fiction quest with it.I initially thought that the rhinoceros of the title would be some metaphor, like when folks say, "There's an elephant in the room" when talking about some big issue no one wants to confront.
I didn't enjoy either one nearly as much as the title play but could also see their inclusion in absurdist theater.It is now a life goal of mine to find a stage production of Rhinoceros.
I'd honestly never heard of this play or this author before.
But then again, I don't often delve into the Theatre of the Absurd.
While the idea of this play was intriguing at first, in reading it I realized two things.
One, no way in hell would I attempt to teach this play to seniors.
And two, I do not really like Theatre of the Absurd.
It's too, well, absurd.
I really want to SEE this play though.
Through so much of what I was reading, I kept wanting the visuals that would accompany actually seeing the play.
That's the beauty of absurdist theatre: it can mean so many things to so many people, but its undercurrent is pessimism toward the human condition.
Because I think I'm rooted and situated in the world I live in, though, I've interpreted Rhinoceros as a criticism against blind conformity.
It's like the rhinoceroses running amok, and no one paying attention.
At the end, the last human being is fragmented and ambivalent: he wants to preserve his individuality, but he knows he is an outcast in the world dominated by rhinoceroses.
It always pays to observe and to think for oneself.
Definitely my favorite of Ionesco's works.
The other two plays in the collection, The Leader and The Future Is In Eggs, are a bit more "business as usual", though The Leader is fun and silly and with the right energetic cast could be an amusing watch (it's also thankfully short).
The Future is In Eggs, however, is exactly what I dislike about Ionesco: heavy handed and too long for it's own good, and by the time you get to it you're already ready for it to be over.
The other two plays are much shorter: The Leader is a political satire, while The Future Is In Eggs is a social satire.
Though I haven't read the first part of this play, the sequel is still comprehensible and could be treated as a separate piece and does not depend so much on the first part for its meaning.
Man's want for immortality as expressed through the act of procreation is seen through dismal eyes.
The Leader satirizes our political preferences and man's natural bent towards senseless hero worship.
Ionesco's plays are multilayered and profound, and are definitely recommended.
The Leader and The Future is in Eggs are both a part of this book too. Super weird and absurdist but clever as hell.

It's almost like a zombie story, but with little cues (often contradictory) about the kinds of meta-textual targets the audience (or author?) has in mind: governments, totalitarians, colonialists, liberals, conservatives, capitalists, etc.
When the entire world has changed does it make sense to pride oneself on remaining steadfast and ugly?
The other two plays in this collection are very minor works, "The Leader" is entertaining enough, skewering the kind of political apparatus that has only gotten worse since the play was written; and "The Future Is in Eggs" a blunt satire on racism, conventional love, and systems of (re)production.

Ionesco, Eugène had written very complex book. I've read this one and La Cantatrice chauve so far. Both when I was young (14-15 years old).First I remember thinking "WTF is that?!". Yes indeed, I was a pain in the ass (I still am by the way).Anyway, the book is about believing in people, misunderstanding, fear and mistrust.I didn't like it younger, I do now :)
Only ended up reading the feature play of this collection, that is "Rhinoceros," but I actually enjoyed it the more I read it.
A lot of the dialogue seemed unnecessary, and reading involved a lot of sifting through excruciatingly-detailed stage direction, but overall the social commentary of the play was quite compelling.
I'm curious, however, if the metamorphosis that the civilians undergo isn't just a statement about fascism and herd-poisoning: to me, it seemed as if the whole human-to-rhinoceros business drew a subtle allegory for the process of coming out and of homosexuality in a time when it was still illegal and socially frowned upon.
"I am not capitulating!"This defiant exclamation sums up brilliantly the whole play, which provides a profound look at human nature and its inclination towards conformity. This strange play also reiterates the absurdity and the irrationalness of mankind.Instead of a verbose of words about the human condition, there is some stark humour(characters inability to form judgements) and the introduction of the pretty but not very bright Daisy makes the play enjoyable.Rhinoceros is one of the few plays I read and I love, which remains as relevant as ever.
Absurdist theatre was an enormous influence on my own writing, particularly in my first novel The Hope Valley Hubcap King, and my newest, The Time of New Weather. This is the best of the best of that genre, particularly the title play, a peculiar surrealistic fable about a gang of rhinoceros that begins to take over the world and converts nearly everyone into being 'one of them'. An illuminating and brilliantly absurd parable about the nature of conformity, often interpreted as an allegory about the rise of fascism in Europe in the years leading to World War II.
Have yourself an absurdist little Christmas! I tried to recreate the profound experience I had several Christmas Eves ago when I read Waiting for Godot for the first time, but Ionesco's Rhinoceros just didn't make the cut. I enjoyed the play, but it seemed too long for its own good--not as compact or effective as his great play The Lesson. Still, it beat Matthew, Mark, Luke, or John.
A man's struggle to maintain his independence/identity among a politically and socially changing landscape--in this case when all who he knows turn into rhinoceroses. Though absurdity is drizzled in (or perhaps the root of the play), it's not nearly as overpowering as Bald Soprano; communication and confusion are still central focal points, but they don't take away from the characters' personalities and development.
