https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/728471.The_Berenstain_Bears_Go_to_the_Doctor
Straight-forward story about what to expect when going to the doctor. It's not very exciting.The kids both read it and were not too move. They also gave it 3 stars.
‘The Berenstain Bears Go to the Doctor’ is part of a series of books which sees a family of bears encountering a variety of everyday life experiences.
Sister Bear’s worried attitude represents the attitude that many children may have.
The story also introduces children to a variety of new vocabulary associated with doctors and hospitals.This story is often used in the EYFS and Key Stage 1 to explore the topic of ‘People who help us’, alongside firemen, teachers and policemen, helping to broaden children’s life perspective.
Being part of a series, the children often look forward to finding out what adventure the bears will embark on next.
Another excellent addition to the Berenstain Bears Series.
When it’s time for a routine checkup, Sister and Brother are a little anxious about what might happen to them … like getting a shot.
In the end both Sister and Brother are brave and things turn out just fine.
If you have little ones who are a bit nervous about going to the doctor, or you just want a fun read with great pictures and a bit about being brave, this is a good book.
As with most of the series, I highly recommend Go to the Doctor.
This was Ben's present for being SO brave when getting his 6 month shots and he loved that it was all about what had happened to him earlier that day at his well visit and that he was allowed to peel off a sticker!
The Berenstain Bears are some of our favorites - reading all of my mom's Berenstain Bears books is great. I also like to watch the cartoon before school. It's fun to sometimes see stories I've read on tv.
8/6/2016 Read with Naomi & Julia.1/25/18 Read with Julia.
This book is fantastic. Great for kids to read. Yet also a great way to introduce them to going to a doctor appointment, should they be worried or nervous.
Mama assures them that this is when doctors check to see if cubs are growing correctly.
When the cubs were brought into the doctors office, Dr. Grizzly recorded their weights and heights, listened to their chests, looked at their throats, ears noses and eyes and took their temperatures.
Dr. Grizzly explained that booster shots are to keep cubs from getting sick and when sister got hers, she hardly knew it had happened.
Dr. Grizzly took notice of Papa's sneezing and decided to take a look at him.
Booster shots are often required at check-ups but they barely hurt at all and can keep you from getting sick.
Papa Bear is a stereotypical male, and he doesn't go to the doctor, because he-- achoo-- never gets sick.
At least it's good in that it explains, briefly, what a shot is for: it keeps you from getting sick.
The doctor prescribes Papa some medicine for his cold, which is not a thing that exists.
There is no medicine that gets prescribed for colds.
So not bad, not great.The best part: "She tested their hearing by whispering very softly." Somehow I don't think that would work as well as a machine.Message: Don't be afraid of doctors.For more children's book reviews, see my website at http://www.drttmk.com.
They are nervous that it will hurt, although when they get there they see all of the other bears there too.
When they go inside the doctor tells them what all of the utensils are and what they do.
The bears realize that it doesn't hurt and they are brave getting their shots.
Papa bear even leaves with medicine because he has a cold.Guided reading level P and grades K-2.The Berenstains have received many awards and honors for their books over the years.
These books corralate because they both are about doctors and explaining the different doctor utensils.
When I was little, picture books were all I would read.
To tell the truth, I hated reading, so looking at pictures made understanding the story so much easier.
I still remember the Berestain Bears because they had lessons that could relate to a little guy like I was in 1988.
I hated going to the doctor mainly because I abhorred shots.
I used to cry simply by being in the office, and many times, I wouldn't even get a shot.
This book was one of the first to teach me that going to the doctor is a good thing.
I think there's a very good reason that this book series has spanned decades and maintained popularity.
It gives children the chance to think on their own and make their own choices for behaviors that carry over into their adult lives.
Many of these issues will be ones that will persist through their lives, just on different levels of course.I love the nostalgia reading this as an adult.
Even grown-ups struggle with keeping up with their health and attending the doctor regularly.
I bet kids read this and remind their parents about going to the doctor themselves, which is exactly what this book should accomplish.
My granddaughter and I really enjoyed this Berenstain Bears book.
It's one of the original stories with Brother and Sister (before Honey and the more 'modern' stuff).
Mama tells the kids they are going to see the doctor for a check up they are scared and unsure...but the story take a child on a trip with the Bear kids and find out that visiting the doctor isn't a bad thing and they are for your well being...
and that shots are good things and explains a little about 'why' you should get booster shots etc (so for those that don't believe in shots for children this book isn't one for you) but my granddaughter and I enjoyed it.
Many people are unnecessarily frightened by going to the doctor.
This is especially common for children because they have not gone as many times and are still easily frightened by pain, blood, and needles.
If your child is scared you can show them this book which details exactly what happens during a visit and shows that it is not as scary as you first thought.This could be used in a classroom to teach about visiting the doctor and common procedures which many of your students may not know.
This could help alleviate some fright from a few students worried about future doctor visits.
This story is about children who are going to the doctor for the first time and are very nervous.
But, throughout the book they go through the whole doctor checkup with the bears and they realize the doctor isn’t such a scary place after all.
We would use this book in a classroom by teaching children about doctors and how they are here to help you stay healthy.
There are many mysteries when it comes to the first visits to the doctor when you are little.
I remember being terrified to go, but if I had this book to read beforehand it could hand alleviated some of those worries.
this book talks about how children are all very scared of going to the doctors and getting shots because it might hurt.
In this book it shows brother and sister bear go in get shots and it shows that all that worrying was for nothing because the shots didn't even hurt.
Most children are scared of the doctors thinking that it will hurt them instead of trying to make them better and this book helps them get over their fears.
I would recommend this book to be read to children to get over their fears of the doctor and show them that they are here to help.
The Berenstain Bears were always some of my favorite books growing up. This series of books is great to teach children about everyday problems, challenges, fears, and rules they might encounter. The bear family is very relatable and the stories are easy to follow with a clear beginning, middle and end. This particular story is one of my favorite because I remember it helping me to not be so afraid of the doctor's office.
I chose this book because I remember my mother reading it to me when I was young. This would be a great book to use in the classroom because it could calm children's fears of the doctor. Also, this book does a good job of explaining the purpose of shots in a way children will understand. This is important for students to know because they will be getting shots often as they grow up. This book is cute, and has humor in it to keep the reader's attention.
This book talks about what to expect when going to the doctor. I liked the main idea of it and the way the story is told. However, I think it has a lot of wording for children to follow through. It can be a story to read in circle time and make sure it is read with motivation so that children can follow along. I believe children can react to it positively if they are asked questions about when the go to the doctor. Engaging them with questions can make this story enjoyable.
This is another good read that will help inform children about doctors’ visits and make them laugh at the things that go on at the doctor's office. The Berenstain family takes a trip so that brother and sister can get their booster shots. I like this part because this is a very routine thing that most children have to experience. In the future I will definitely share this book with children who may be fearful of what goes on at the doctor's office.
I would rate this book a 5. This story is about children who are going to the doctor for the first time and are very nervous. But, throughout the book they go through the whole doctor checkup with the bears and they realize the doctor isn't such a scary place after all. You could use this book in a classroom by teaching children about doctors and how they are here to help you stay healthy. This book is good for young children from kindergarten to 3rd grade.
I do like how this book tackles exactly what to expect in a check up. I don't like how the cubs are paraded out in their underwear to show the other cubs in the waiting room how bravely they can get their shots. Ick. We might need to have a talk about privacy here...The additional storyline about Papa Bear is predictable but fun all the same. I do love that his smug self righteousness leads to his downfall.
This is another classic series of stories that are typically a favorite among young ones. This particular one is my favorite from the series. I love how they made the doctors office seem like a nice and inviting place and not a scary place like most kids think. I would pick this for my classroom because I want to show the children that it doesn't have to be a scary place and shots aren't has painful as they may think.
This is a great book to read for understanding sequencing. This book is also a great book to do a character study activity since there are a lot of Berenstain Bears books. I think students will enjoy these books because they are fun books to read and listen to. This is a great book to talk about why it is important to wash hands and what causes you to become sick. This book would be a great introduction to talking about germs.
Read with Logan on a marathon BB reading day in Sept, 2012.Funny tale of the kids being good at the doctor's office and Papa then needing a shot because he is sneezing, though the entire book he's been insisting he NEVER gets sick.Update: Re-read this book with Sabrina while visiting Austin in May, 2014. Classic!
Every alternate day....my 3 year old pixie...want me to read it for her. I loved the lines ..."Take a deep breath..& stick out your tongue..Go to Doctor Grizzly, when you are young. When I talk about booster shot ...very innocently she will say...mom, like papa bears...I don't need, as I am not sick.
It's time for Brother and Sister Bear to visit the doctor for a checkup. They are weighed, temperature taken, height checked and more. The cubs to great until they are told they need booster shots. But Dr. Grizzly talks them through it and they do fine. Papa Bear, however, apparently has a cold!Dated, but the Berenstain Bears books are still good.
If the kids hand me a book versus me picking one out, then yes, I'm definitely reading it. They love stethoscopes, so this one is a hit. Although I have my doubts about that doctor immediately offering to check a sick Papa Bear with a cold during his kids' own check-up, especially with all those other bears waiting outside. Overthinking a children's book is fun!
★★★★The Berenstain Bears Go to the Doctor by Stan and Jan Berenstain This book is about the cubs going to the doctor. They are scared, but do it bravely. The realize that the doctor is not a bad place, and they are there to help you. They also learn that if you don't go to the doctor you can get sick, like Papa Bear.
I found this book to be very humorous for me as a child. I personally was always afraid of going to the doctor but reading this book gave me almost a boost of confidence seeing as sister bear was not afraid to go to do doctor. It's a great book for young readers not only for its humor but also to loosen up that fear of doctor visits. I would recommend this book to children 3 or 4 years and up.
