https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6224807-vampire-dari-sussex-the-adventure-of-the-sussex-vampire---sherlock-hol
He refused to believe it, until there was another incident, where the wound on the child’s neck and the blood on his wife’s lips were quite evident.
She offered no explanation, only fled to her room and locked the door.The wife is Mr Ferguson’s second wife, and he has a son aged 15, from his first marriage who suffered a nasty accident as a child and no longer has the full use of his legs.
His name is Jack, and he has also been abused by his stepmother, though Mr Ferguson cannot understand these incidents!
Even before Holmes and Watson set off for Mr Ferguson’s house, in Sussex, Holmes has deduced the solution and it has nothing to do with vampires.
One of all time favourites! I read it a long time ago when I was staying with my grandparents, and there was a huge collection, and I loved this one. I remembered this one, but I could not find it. And when I went back, I could not even find the book. So when I stumbled upon this one, I realised it was the one I was searching for. I am ecstatic right now! No other Sherlock story has stuck with me so much that I remembered it for years.
Um livro com contos pequenos do Sherlock Holmes, em uma época em que o Watson não mora mais com ele e ainda tem seu consultório médico - para ajudar o Sherlock Holmes ele precisa cancelar agenda com paciente e etc. O conto da capa do livro é mais ou menos, o livro fica alternando entre contos mais ou menos e bons. Como sempre não tem nenhum ruim.
The 2nd most popular book in our school during 2014, look at our October Issue for more about this book.Vampire books have and always will be popular amongst students of all ages, authors that write Vampire novels already have a huge fan base to aim their books at, I have been the editor of our school magazine for three years, and during this time I have noticed that the most demanded types of books year upon year are any books with a Vampire tone, during my three years as student magazine editor I have done ten articles upon Vampire theme novels, because that is what satisfied student demand at my school.
I would highly recommend this book to anybody, I think its target audience will be book readers aged 25 and below, although adults could quite easily find themselves engrossed in the story line.
El parasito fue publicado antes de El perro de los Baskerville y El mundo perdido, así que todavía no había caido completamente en las garras del ocultismo.La historia es la de un científico que se somete a sesiones de hipnotismo de manera experimental, por parte de una mujer que empieza a tener cierto control sobre él.
Cierra la historia con un tono muy interesante.Probablemente lo único negativo que puedo decir de él, es que tiene ciertos toques melodramáticos góticos algo exagerados, sobre todo en lo que respecta a la historia de amor con la prometida del protagonista (personaje bastante poco aprovechado).-El vampiro se sussex (***): No es uno de los Holmes que mas me gustan.
This was short enoough so that I was able to finsh it in one sitting yet long enough so at the end I was ready to close my eyes and drift away.Sherlock Holmes is always the go-to character when it comes to a good detective mystery.
The stories are short and enjoyable yet at the end the reveal still always manages to surprise you.
Normally, I always try to figure out things for myself and most of the time I do get one or two elements character, but I'm never able to figure out the entire picture.
This is like the supernatural series I read for Ahmad Tawfiq, where he investigates the medical and logical matter in mythical and supernatural stuff. I was super excited to read a case related to vampires and wanted to see the real explanation behind it. It gave me a great joy reading this. Definitely 5 stars.
Vampire DeductedNot the most twisty of Holmes stories and predictably dismissive of the supernatural. ("Ghosts need not apply.") But a very interesting and surprisingly sympathetic view of the rights and role of the Victorian wife is worked into the mystery. I had never read this one before a friend suggested it, and I'm very glad she did.
I liked it well enoughRead full review at link belowhttps://gszengarden.wixsite.com/mylit...
The fifth short story in The Case Book of Sherlock Holmes by Arthur Conan Doyle. Sherlock Holmes and Dr. Watson investigate a case involving a vampire. Gothic and entertaining.
Audiolibro
In fact, the very name is weird for a respectable author of crime stories, who has created a reputable detective known around the world for solving tough cases of murder and not looking for vampires.And yet, even after we start reading the mystery and the feeling that something supernatural is going on are still there.This woman, who comes from a very different culture, seems to attack her babies and drink blood from them in the manner of…vampires.The only question left to answer to is what happened to her?Is she crazy?
Then, with the dry chuckle which was his nearest approach to a laugh, he tossed it over to me.” Thus opens this foreboding Sherlock story.Clever!
It has been a case for intellectual deduction, but when this original intellectual deduction is confirmed point by point by quite a number of independent incidents, then the subjective becomes objective and we can say confidently that we have reached our goal.
I had, in fact, reached it before we left Baker Street, and the rest has merely been observation and confirmation.'” - - -
Sherlock holmes kitabini okumamin nedeni daha once sherlock holmes filmlerinden izledim ve polisiye turune pek ilgim yokken sherlock holmesden sonra polisiyeye merak sardim ve filmlerini hayranlikla izleyince kitabini da okumak istedim.
Boylelikle sherlock holmesun okudugum ilk kitabi oldu ve buyuk bir zevkle okudum.
Sherlock holmesun stratejileri cok zekice ve cok ilginc.
Nasil oldu da bu sonuca ulasti dedirtiyor insana.
Ve okurken kendini de icinde kaybettiriyor.
Hikayeler halinde oldugu icin ben de okurken kendimce cikarimlar yapmaya calistim ama o cikarimlari yapmanin oyle basit birsey olmadigini daha iyi anladim.
Kisaca heyecan, gerilim, aksiyon dolu sherlock kitaplarini herkese tavsiye ederim mutlaka okunmasi gereken kitaplar.üveyş yücel-100913060
At the start i was like: The Vampire thing sounded so cool...i was expecting a lot of murders and action, however it was not the thing i was expecting it to be. LOL i was not expecting it to be like twilight, i was thinking of some horror type fun.Sadly it was not that cool.
I really enjoyed this story. It had a gothic style and though the truth was not supernatural, it was interesting and showed the extent of love between the couple.
یکی از معدود داستانهایی بود که از شرلوک هولمز جا انداخته بودم و حالا به حسابش رسیدم.پس از این همه مدت که نه تنها داستانهای خود دویل بلکه دیگر ماجراهای هولمز -که توسط الباقی نویسندگان بزرگ به رشته تحریر درامدهاند- را خواندهام، همچنان متحیر میشوم و زمانی که کاراگاه دوست داشتنیم قدرت استنتاجش را به رخ میکشد غلیان درونی میابم و نتیجه گیری خودم را به وی مقایسه میکنم!"خون آشام ساسکس" یکی دیگر از پروندههای بینظیر و به ظاهر پیچیده و دشوار است که توسط کاراگاه دماغ عقابیِ خیابان بیکر حل و فصل میشود. این د

The great Christopher Lee narrates four Sherlock Holmes short stories: The Sussex vampire, The adventure of Shoscombe Old Place, The Adventure of the Illustrious Client and the Adventure of the Veiled lodger.The first two stories are great, but I wasn't too keen on the latter two which is more to do with the actual stories than the narrator. I wish Lee had been narrating some of the other, more gothic stories such as the devil's foot or hound of the Baskervilles. Still he is perfectly suited to the Sussex vampire which is a delight to listen to.
It is a wonderful story. Very entertaining. Mrs Ferguson's love for her husband left deep impression on me. If a woman is willing to endure being misunderstood and misused by the one that she loves most, she must loves him very dearly at any cost. Of course Holmes was smart and intelligent and Waston was a good person, but a little weak-minded compared to Holmes. That's the tone of the book. Like the story.
This was an interesting case for Sherlock Holmes, for one thing, it has a cool gothic and horror twist to it and for another its has the classic red herring villain. The supporting characters seemed to have a bit more eccentric personalities and a more colorful backstory which added a little bit of the intrigue to the tale. Overall, this was a thoroughly enjoyable story with a gratifying conclusion.
Bacaan yang ringan untuk sekali duduk, cukup menyenangkan untuk membaca ungkapan misteri secara tegas dan cerdik. Meskipun setiap menuju akhir cerita, ku bisa menebak jalan cerita selanjutnya. Coba kalau lebih tebal lagi mungkin lebih menyenangkan lagi. Bagus kok, bagus. Tapi ratingnya tidak bisa lebih tinggi :P.
sebenarnya ceritanya bagus, hanya saja kurang panjang. Ada 2 cerita dalam buku ini, yang pertama ada seorang pria yang mengirim surat kepada Sherlock tentang masalah yang dihadapinya yaitu istrinya ketahuan menghisap darah bayinya sendiri, tentu saja Sherlock penasaran dengan kasus ini, membawa serta rekannya dr Watson, Sherlock pun menyelidiki kasus ini...
Si bien el Vampiro de Sussex es una mas de las novelas donde se exponen los dotes de observacion de Holmes y no brinda ningun elemento nuevo a su amplio haber de casos, el Parasito es una novela diferente, donde la narrativa a traves de un diario y la manera de abordar el tema vampirico la hace un referente por excelencia de dichos seres desde un punto de vista no convenciones
My relativly low rating may not be totally fair, since I hate crime stories, even classics like Sherlock Holmes. Many inconsistencies also bring down the quality. If you love old fashioned detective stories you might enjoy this collection of short stories. Otherwise you can easily pass this one by...
Achei os contos bem fracos, com exceção do conto que dá nome ao livro. Não parecem escritos pelo criador do Sherlock Holmes. Os três primeiros contos não podiam ser mais entediantes, os dois últimos, com destaque pro conto que dá título, melhoram um pouco a minha avaliação. Por causa dos dois últimos contos mereceria ser melhor que 3 estrelas, mas não dá pra dar 4 então no fim será 3.
2 öyküyü önceden okumuşum zaten.Sevgi Yolu'ndan 5 tl'ye almama ve hiç duymadığım bir yayınevinden çıkmış olmasına rağmen çeviri de editörlük de baya iyiydi, hiç sıkıntı yaşamadan su gibi okudum geçtim. Sherlock Holmes'ü baya acayip seviyorum <3
Read as a follow up after finishing Dracula by Bram Stoker.Arthur Conan Doyle and his fabby creation Sherlock Holmes never fails to please. Holmes' logical deduction of who the "vampire" really is is accomplished in short order by the master sleuth. This is a quick and fun read.
The Adventure of the Sussex Vampire was a very creative and macabre story for the famous Holmes and Watson. This story combined many eerie elements as well as some very interesting twists and turns to create one of my favorite stories yet! A great short read!
Sherlock Holmes tracks down a vampire. Pretty classic tale. You can read it for free here: http://internettroubadours.blogspot.c...
It might be short, but once more Conan Doyle proves that it is not the length that matter, but the content!
