https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/34971475-the-wife
It was an absolute delight to find a novel that I didn't have figured out in the first 15 pages!I'm dying to include more quotes, but I just can't risk setting off a bomb that might ruin the read for you, so I'll just say that I was surprised multiple times over with the reveals.
I've always taken such a clear stance on sexual assault claims; I'm a huge proponent of supporting other women who are walking through the horror of surviving that type of trauma, but this book made me question so many of my beliefs and prejudices.If you're looking for a domestic drama that includes just enough legal thriller and a dash of current events, this one's for you.
Holy freaking cow! All the Stars!!!! This was a 4 Star ⭐ book for me. Then came part four and it went into full 10 Star turbo mode! Wow! What a way to end a novel!Please don’t let the generic title or the cover sway you from reading this. I loved it! This should be made into a movie. The subject matter is so timely and that ending would leave viewers gasping!I listened to the audio version. The narrator was good but not great. Although I felt she did a fantastic job with the last part of the boo
Holy freaking cow!
All the Stars!!!!
This was a 4 Star ⭐️ book for me.
Then came part four and it went into full 10 Star turbo mode!
Wow!
What a way to end a novel!Please don’t let the generic title or the cover sway you from reading this.
I loved it!
This should be made into a movie.
The subject matter is so timely and that ending would leave viewers gasping!I listened to the audio version.
The narrator was good but not great.
Although I felt she did a fantastic job with the last part of the book.
I love the simple mystery of figuring out which characters we can trust.In THE WIFE, Alafair Burke has created the perfect blend of a character driven suspense novel with some police investigation (just enough) and courtroom drama (again, just enough!).
The story feels relevant and timely; seriously, this book feels like it was written this month, all the current events are spot-on accurate.The story is full of twists, but not huge IN YOUR FACE twists, again, just small enough that you read a sentence a couple of times to make sure you got it right!
I am too biased to review the insides, but isn't the jacket pretty? Hope you enjoy what's behind the cover.
*4 stars*A fun and addictive surprise...Brief review: After a slower start, this ended up being quite a good read with various twists and surprises—each one well-paced and cleverly-constructed.
This isn’t a heart pounding, race-to-the-finish experience, but a tame psychological voyage that entices you with its mystery and enchants you with its design.
Fans of the genre should certainly give this one a read when in the mood for a more humble thriller with mystery and mind play.
*Traveling Friends Read — special thanks to Norma for discussing this one to pieces with me ;)
Addictive read about a wife who stands by her husband’s side even though he’s been accused of sexual assault.
On the surface, Angela and Jason have the perfect marriage.
However, when Jason is accused of sexual assault, secrets of their marriage come to light.
The more and more we learn about Jason, one wonders why would Angela choose to stay by this man’s side?
Is she in denial or is there a lot more to Angela and Jason’s marriage than we know?Told primarily through the Angela’s POV, we learn her rationale about why she chooses to stay by Jason’s side.
As Angela wades through the questions of whether or not Jason is innocent, how to hide her past and deal with her son viewing his father in this new light, things slowwwwwly devolve into mayhem once we find out one of these women - Kerry Lynch, has abruptly gone missing.
No, we search for clues about what makes that woman or child different from the women and children we know and love.What I will give The Wife is that the last quarter of the book was Grade-A crazy pants.
It's a great little mystery and if police procedurals are your thing, this is is going to be right up your alley!
It's been said the apple doesn't fall far from the tree. While this may not be a surprise to those who have read her work before, but as a first-time reader of Alafair Burke, I can definitely say that storytelling talent definitely runs in the family! (She is the daughter of one of my all-time favorite authors, James Lee Burke.) But the thing is, James Lee Burke never quite got my pulse pounding as hard as his daughter did in her new book, The Wife!Angela Powell's husband Jason was quite the gu
(She is the daughter of one of my all-time favorite authors, James Lee Burke.) But the thing is, James Lee Burke never quite got my pulse pounding as hard as his daughter did in her new book, The Wife!Angela Powell's husband Jason was quite the guy—smart, handsome, and successful; a best-selling author; a sought-after consultant; and a frequent expert seen on television programs.
But when a second woman, an executive for one of Jason's clients, steps forward with more serious allegations, Angela starts to wonder if her husband is telling the truth.

This sent me on an exuberant and manic Google mission, naturally, and yep, she sure is his daughter.And the second reason the dad-daughter connection slays me is that I postponed reading a NetGalley book and chose to read The Wife instead.
To make matters even more cool, the main character in James Burke’s famous Robicheaux series has a daughter named Alafair—as in his own author-daughter’s name!In a 2004 article from NPR about this father-daughter duo, it says that Alafair Burke was interested in writing mysteries when she was young: "As a kid...
.....I was hooked from the start.....wondering who the hell was telling the truth? ......Then wondering what everyone hiding? ......I was Intrigued about ‘The Wife’ ( Angela) from the start and thoroughly engaged and curious about every character and the sexual harassment claims against Jason. I conclude the author, Alafair Burke, “LOCKED THIS PSYCHOLOGICAL SUSPENSE NOVEL *DOWN*”!!!Great storytelling- crafting - Simply GREAT!
For authors these days, it’s more of a challenge than ever before to put a fresh spin on familiar plots or to keep their material fresh and original.
Jaded readers, like myself, can often see a twist coming a mile off, which might be why some authors are trying to keep readers off balance by throwing in a multitude of over the top shocking twist and turns.
So, it takes a very skilled author to weave a complex, clever tale around a timely storyline that will keep readers engaged, add in a nice balance of well -timed twist and turns, and top it off with a stunning conclusion they never saw coming.
🌟 🌟 🌟 🌟 🌟 The Wife grabbed me from the very first chapter.
When Angela’s husband was accused of sexual harrassment, and later sexual assault of a different woman, would she continue to stand by her husband?
I was able to figure out one of the twists, but not the other; but it took me until later in the book to put my finger on it.
#thehypeisrealWith the #MeToo movement and widespread media coverage of sexual harassment and sexual assault as of late, The Wife is a timely release that would offer plenty of discussion for book clubs.
Because, you know, I don’t have seventy four thousand other books to read and review, let me pick up a library book!
3.5 stars for The Wife, a sleepy thriller with a tedious build-up but a shocking payoff!"In a case of he-said, she-said, 'she' had just racked up one small point on her side of the board."Jason Powell is a famous economist who's afforded his family a lavish Manhattan lifestyle through his books, lectures, and media appearances.
After two successful women accuse Jason of lurid behavior, Angela worries that her secret past will come to the surface.
However, when that backstory and the current timeline eventually collapsed on one another in the final chapters, things REALLY picked up.
Another addictive read that skillfully reveals pieces to the mystery one layer at a time and draws you into the story.
I HAVE to know...thus I have to keep reading!The husband "flirty" Jason is mega successful and married to Angela (the narrator).
Rachel, an intern at work, enters the story with some accusations against Jason and things start to get "messy" in the couples dream life.Angela will do anything to protect her husband (or will she)?
We'll soon find out just how good an investigator she is and what Angela is willing to do or not do to protect Jason.I love legal based thrillers and this one really picks up the pace and throws the punches.
Her secret.When Angela met Jason Powell while catering a dinner party in East Hampton, she assumed their romance would be a short-lived fling, like so many relationships between locals and summer visitors.
She and her son were finally able to move out of her mother’s home to Manhattan, where no one knew about her tragic past.Six years later, thanks to a bestselling book and a growing media career, Jason has become a cultural lightning rod, placing Angela near the spotlight she worked so carefully to avoid.
But when Kerry disappears, Angela is forced to take a closer look at the man she married.
Jason Powell, a man we might all say is quite the catch is married to Angela who is the narrator of this story, They met and married and Angela breezes into a life of privilege.
Not too long after a second complainant comes forward with a much more serious complaint, that of rape and the Powells' whole world is turned upside down.Add to all this upheaval is the secret that Angela carries that tends to undermine her and her relationships.
Then Jason gets accused of sexual assault.
And then another woman comes forward, this time she accuses Jason of rape and hiding is something that Angela is no longer able to do.
It was twisty and turny and kept me gripped to the storyline till the end.
For me however, I felt that too much was revealed only at the end of the story and had certain elements been “let out” during the course of the novel, they might have worked a bit better.
I read this with Brenda and Kaceey and am glad I discovered this author with them.
I will definitely be reading her books in the future!
4.5 Stars  At last a smart grown up thriller that had me guessing right to the end.
I tend to have a love hate relationship with the thriller genre and while I do love to dip in now and again I am more often than not left feeling disappointed.
This is a great story that shows how little we know about our spouses.
Angela’s husband is first accused of sexual harassment from an intern.
Then another woman accuses him of rape.
It’s also a fascinating study in how the law and legal system work.
The story juxtaposes between Angela’s story and that of the female detective pursuing the case.
Nice, short chapters keep you engaged and the story moving at a brisk pace.
This would make a great movie or tv miniseries.
It’s the sort of thing Reese Witherspoon would excel at producing.
I listened to this and Xe Sands was a great narrator.
Angela Powell’s orderly and comfortable life is upended when her husband Jason, an NYU economics professor and best selling author, is accused of sexual harassment by a student.
I thought this was going to be another traditional story where the wife dutifully stands by her man to the bitter end until she’s wrenched into an alternate reality.
I know I’m being cryptic but once you listen to/read this story, you wouldn’t have me be any other way.
I enjoyed Xe Sands performance, especially the second half of the story where she just didn’t get in the way, if that makes sense.
4.5 stars, rounded upA Traveling Friends group read, this is a well-written, intelligent domestic thriller/police procedural that restores my faith in the genre.
Complicated characters, perfect pacing, and solid plotting combined with the author’s knowledge and experience in criminal law makes for a riveting tale.
To ramp up the tension even further, there’s a murder, and all the signs point to Jason.
She's an interesting character with many layers and a past she doesn’t want revealed.
Better yet, the ending makes sense and the twists are logical.
I don’t want to give away too much so I will end my review here.
I like to see the pressure a wife and family may feel when their private life is made public for others to scrutinize.This book is told in the first person point of view following Angela Powell, wife to Jason and mother to Spencer.
On the opposite side is Detective Corrine Duncan, told in third person point of view as she investigate the case against Jason.
This book is still worth the read and I do recommend everyone to read it!Pro: the ending, some humor, some investigation dead ends, blogs as an outlet for infoCon: slow paced,I rate it 4 stars!***Disclaimer: Many thanks to the author Alafair Burke, publisher HarperCollins, and Edelweiss for the opportunity to read and review.
What an ending!!!THE WIFE by ALAFAIR BURKE was an extremely fun, enjoyable, twisty, and surprising psychological domestic thriller that started out a little bit slow for me, but once I grasped the focus of this story, I was totally intrigued and immersed in this tale.
To sum it all up it was an entertaining, compulsive, appealing, quick and easy read with an ending that will definitely surprise you!
A special thank you to Kris for reading & discussing this one with me before my Overdrive copy disappeared!Review can also be found on our Traveling Sisters Book Blog:https://twosisterslostinacoulee.com/
I read all of her books years ago, and I can't read a mystery or thriller novel now without weighing and analyzing every sentence with the dedication of a private investigator.
I'm always working the angles and trying to stay one step ahead of the author because Christie was so sneaky, I learned early to treat everything revealed with suspicion.
That doesn't always make for the most relaxing reading experience - and it ruins the fun.So, if you read this (and you should), just go with the flow and enjoy the story.
Let the author surprise you and don't overthink it!Sincerely,Miss Marple
I don’t know how many times I can say it but shortish chapters are the best!
Jason has many jobs, one of being a professor and the other a consulting business.
Angela has had a horrible and tragic past but has moved forward in life by marrying Jason.
Because Jason is well known, Angela often times feels worried that her past life will come back to haunt her.An intern from Jason’s business goes to the police after an incident in his office.
After the post another woman, Kerry Lynch, has come forward accusing Jason of something terrible.
The HYPE is real Well played, Alafair.
It's engaging, mysterious, powerful, message-filled, with one hell of a surprising twist...surprising to me anyway.
Even though I probably make this book sound like a women's fiction drama, it is indeed a mystery/psychological thriller.
Check it out.My favorite quote:"The public's first instinct is to disbelieve the woman because we don't want to admit these horrible things actually happen.
So to counter that instinct, we good feminists take the position that we believe every single woman every single time.
And then the Rolling Stone article about West Virginia happens and it hurts us all."1/23/18: I did not see that coming.
⭐⭐⭐⭐💫 / 5 rounded up to 5 ⭐ for Goodreads.
I think I have really been on a roll of good books lately, and The Wife by Alafair Burke did not disappoint.I loved this book so much.
Seriously, you need to run and not walk to get yourselves a copy of this one.
It is out now!This book reminded me a little bit of Anatomy of a Scandal, but with a faster place and it was less procedural (which I liked).
You can tell that Burke is a former prosecutor and that she teaches criminal law.
I love that she wrot
It is out now!This book reminded me a little bit of Anatomy of a Scandal, but with a faster place and it was less procedural (which I liked).
Even though the book isn't incredibly procedural, there's still a lot of things that show off what she knows about law.
Anyway, there were some great characters in this book, and I liked that Angela didn't seem to be a complete doormat.
Like I said, it had a little bit of that Anatomy of a Scandal vibe, but this one was a more enjoyable read for me.
The WifeAlafair BurkeMY RATING ⭐⭐⭐⭐▫PUBLISHER Harper AudioPUBLISHED January 23, 2018NARRATOR Xe SandsA timely and gripping psychological suspense novel that will leave you gasping for air. SUMMARYHe makes a mistake and she may pay the price. All Angela wanted was to live a quiet life, maybe get married, have another child, and most importantly, stay out of the media limelight in order to avoid the press about nightmare that was her past. But six years into her marriage to Jason, a brilliant NYU
Jason, handsome and well-dressed, had already become a media darling when he published a best selling book, developed a podcast and started a very successful corporate consulting firm several years ago.
But it was when a intern in his consulting firm made an accusation against Jason, and another woman comes forward with a more troubling charge that their perfect life implodes.
The investigation into the accusations against Jason, Angela’s troubled past, and her strained marriage all coalesce to draw you in, but it is the final chapters that will have you gasping for air.
