https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/75867.The_Theater_and_Its_Double
Artaud faz uma Crítica ao teatro verbal do ocidente que não se utiliza da metafísica dos gestos ,que nunca soube utilizar a música para fins dramáticos ,não faz uso de movimentos ,formas, cores, vibrações, atitudes e gritos.
Critica também as adaptações de obras primas a qual chama de teatro psicológico .Essas obras teriam que ser adaptadas para a época atual.Propõe então através de manifestos, uma nova forma de se fazer teatro( isso na década de 30) que seria o teatro da crueldade.O espectador não seria apenas um mero espectador , seria submetido a uma carga emocional , a um tratamento de choque emotivo.
Going back to what I said earlier, the reason why people want to go back to a primitive state is that they think that requires no thought.
Getting out of the body, in other words.Simply listen to Keiji Haino if you want to see his philosophy in action.
The art of theater is not for those narrowed few who wish to proverbially curse others, it is however for the people who have a sense of implacable knowledge; a strong utterance to those who seek the numerous plateaus of getting out of our existence (e.g. body.) Maggie Nelson's recent book "The Art of Cruelty" defines a kind-of metaphysics, and also writes about many forms of cruelty.
Perfect for a day at the beach
This is one of those books that seems cursed by having been too influential.
The end result is a book that feels repetitive and rather banal.
He covers Balinese theater, Kabbalah, Aztec culture, and the Black Death; not in the manner of an eclectic scholar, but rather like someone who has become fiercely obsessed with a few random subjects.
As a Marx Brothers fan, I appreciated this bit near the ending: "The poetic quality of a film like Animal Crackers might correspond to the definition of humor, if this word had not long since lost its meaning of total liberation, of the destruction of all reality in the mind."
Meni je tekst uvijek draži od posttesktualnog kazališta, no kužim što Artaud želi.
S time da nikada nisam gledao artaudovsku predstavu, možda bi nakon gledanja jedne takve predstave i zavolio takvo kazalište više od ovog srednjostrujaškog kazališta.
Artaud smatra da je temelj kazališta režija, po uzoru na kazališta nezapadnih društava želi ostvariti kazalište utemeljeno na kretnjama tijela, simbolici scenografije, neljudskim zvukovima, neartikuliranim zvukovima te na novom korištenju rasvjete.
Artaud želi dovesti publiku nasred kazališta, da se predstava odvija u svim smjerovima oko publike.
On je Napoleon književnosti, Raskoljnjikov koji je pokušao ubiti Aljonu Ivanovnu, no gledajući današnje srednjostrujaško kazalište, očito je da je Aljona Ivanovna još živa.
Aljona Ivanovna će valjda uskoro preminuti.Hvala ti Artaud!
I just re-read a little of this.
After finishing Strip City I wanted something to read while hanging around the house one day but couldn't decide what to start next so I went with a little out of Theatre.
It is one of my all time favorite peices of writing.I've picked this book apart so many times that this time I decided just to enjoy the words.
Artaud had a way with words that I haven't found anyone else close to.
“cruelty” might be the functionally irreducible element that endures in all of its unassimilable difficulty on through the frustrated attempts of bertalanffian sociological capture.
the vigor and wildness of this non-theoretical anarchistic kinship with antonin artaud stems from an embrace that all sociological form must be continually subverted, that this is the tendency of collaboration, that the structure of kinship is continually broken in its recrudescence, like how fred moten in *in the break* during one of many of its most perspicacious passages describes the homoerotic link between prolific jazz co-composer of one of my absolute favorite pieces of music “satin doll” billy strayhorn, harlem renaissance modernist painter beauford delaney and artaud.
munjen si, čo
A solid manifesto, trying to save the theatre from the fetters of the written text.
Artaud's point is that the theatre should be above the text and reclaim the performance space in favor of addressing the senses.
In this book, he suggests a new drama that he calls "The Theatre of Cruelty" where actors and directors aim to distress the audience rather than telling psychological stories about characters, which is the domain of literature.
The theatre according to Artaud has been subordinated by literature and written text, which only serves to dissect human beings psychologically.
Who knows.Artaud thinks of theater as a venue to play out “the perverse possibilities of the mind.” To those who think that’s dark and morbid, Artaud says that’s life’s fault, not theater’s.
Artaud says that if “the public” doesn’t respond to a new production of Oedipus Rex, it’s the fault of Rex and those deciding to stage it.
All this sounds like a theater that relaxes, considers the audience over the need for prestige of those performing it, but Artaud says The Theater of Cruelty’s goal is to change the minds of its audience by force, Sontag calls it a theatrical version of shock therapy.
It took me longer than expected to finish this book. A collection of essays on modern techniques that should be introduced to theatre, and how theatre shouldn't be a mere performance based on a written text. Many interesting elements but a lot of redundancy that made me lose focus several times.
Yes, he points out that there is some kind of problem with contemporary theatre (of the 1930s), which I think was a fairly well accepted idea, but apart from a general primitivist ethic in Modernism I don't see anyplace where he explains why the Theatre of Cruelty is THE way to redeem theatre.Original Review: I was intiially put off by several aspects of Artaud's theory--his notable racism (he has overly romantic of non-Wester ultures), the vagueness of his terms (especially "life," just as in Nietzsche), and his general inability to clearly articulate what exactly he wants.
The Occidental (Western) theater, the theater of psychological conflicts based on spoken language, could acquire the same incantation, depending of actors’ professionalism and directors’ skillfulness.
Nevertheless, thanks to Artaud I discovered the theater of cruelty, the surrealistic theater, I did not know anything about before, being just a theater lover and not a specialist.As for me, the general ideas of the theater of cruelty would be better understood if one ever watched the works of Mnochkine’s “Theatre du Soleil”, Punchdrunk’s immersive “Sleep no more” or pantomimic “Mummenchantz,” presenting the art of performing in different means, but alike in surrealistic approach, brought to life by Artaud’s generation.

Artaud argues that theater has become subordinate to the text and that the mise en scene and spectacle need to be privileged in his revolutionary call for a theater of cruelty.
He calls for a new language, not one of words, but one of signs in which words are still used, but not solely for their grammatical meanings; words instead should be chosen for their sonority and vibrational qualities.
I was alternately fascinated by Artaud's vision and suspicious that it's possible (Conclusion: it's possible  once , but repetition is against Artaud's vision).
This book is to the theatre as Alfie Kohn's "Unconditional Parenting" is to parenting. So many of the sacred Myths keeping the theatre from its potential exist today as much as they did when Artaud and Brecht were writing. This is a masterpiece; essential to a reading list for any first year theatre student."In the true theater a play disturbs the sense's repose, frees the repressed unconscious, incites a kind of virtual revolt (which moreover can have its full effect only if it remains virtual), and imposes on the assembled collectivity an attitude that is both difficult and heroic."
I disagree wholesale with pretty much everything Artaud has to say--and his philosophies usually produce the kind of insufferable pretentious theatre nobody outside of an art school can stand--but this is still essential reading for any serious theatre student. The last chapter on actor-as-athlete Is particularly worthwhile.
This is a very dangerous book. PERILOUS. I am going to re-read it at once.
Artaud era de fato um louco reacionário, mas o seu estilo de escrita e argumentação são ótimos. Muitas de suas ideias continuam válidas, mesmo com o radicalismo que incutiam.
Not an easy read, but an authentic one.
If our lives lack fire and fervour, that is to say continual magic, this is because we choose to observe our actions, losing ourselves in meditation on their imagined form, instead of being motivated by them.This took me seven months to get through, but that excerpt unpacked everything for me.
This was a quick read for me. I read it because I'm studying drama as part of my degree. I find the concepts interesting, but a little hard to grasp. There are points in the book that feel quite profound, and yet others that seem completely abstract. I'd recommend it to anyone interested in theatre and its history.
Zo ook moet ons toneel zijn, zegt de in zijn leven vaak door psychische problemen en daardoor in de instellingen van zijn tijd verblijvende toneelschrijver, regisseur, poëet, acteur, tekenaar en essayist Antonin Artaud het in dit werk.
Maar we mogen blij zijn, om een cliché te gebruiken, dat de in het algemeen gezien interessante Uitgeverij Ijzer (me voorheen volkomen onbekend) uit Utrecht, dit werk, in een let op, vertaling van de ook wel spiritueel ingestelde dichter en nog niet zo lang geleden overleden man Simon Vinkenoog, op de markt heeft gebracht.
Teatrul cruzimii definit ca fiind "afirmarea/unei teribile/ și de altfel ineluctabile necesități"
Fascinating, critical, turbulent, insightful. Provides invaluable perspective and criticism for literary artists.
"Teatro de la crueldad significa teatro difícil y cruel ante todo para mí mismo"
quickly skimmed through this for my theatre project. very interesting ideas!
Recommended by David Hrivnak.
a physically ill man
For him theatre has to be real and when an audience sees a performance on stage they should see themselves.
The audience should live in the world of the play and put themselves in the place of the characters.
It unravels conflicts, liberates powers, releases potential and if these and the powers are dark, this is not the fault of the plague or theatre, but life.”Essentially, if the audience doesn’t like what they’re experiencing because of the amount of cruelty that’s in it, they shouldn’t blame the problem or the play, but they should accept its existence.
Today’s theatre rather alienates the audience from the performance.
