https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/814937.The_Curious_Casebook_of_Inspector_Hanshichi
A very informative introduction about Kido and the cultural impact of the Hanshichi stories was also provided by the translator.Hanshichi is by no means Sherlock Holmes.
Rather, the detective stories were intended to bring an intertwining pretext to educate the reader about the cultural norms of old Edo (Tokyo) in the period between 1840s and 1860s.
Or, citing from the introduction, "Kido was motivated as much by a desire to educate his readers as to entertain them.
I didn`t mind the read for what it was, I just wish that Hanshichi`s antagonists put up more resistance when he had them cornered.
Seemed a bit too easy for him to track down and subdue the criminal elements.Pretty good book for learning about Edo period and eras before, with the translator having notes at the bottom of the page for elements the average foreign reader may not be acquainted with.
(Change of city names over time, festivals, shrines, plays, prominent individuals, cultural aspects and etiquette etc.)Worth reading, especially for those who are fans of the detective/mystery genre.Wondering if Kido wrote anything other than detective fiction?
Probably if so, not translated yet.
След прецизните в прелестта си Китайски загадки на вездесъщия Хюлик, в мен се отвори един нечовешки читателски глад за изящни азиатски истории, смесващи смущаващи местни легенди и вярвания с изключителни в жестокостта си престъпления на странна раса.
Докато не се посблъсках със следната компилация от великолепни истории на, за мен лично, напълно непознатия Окамото Кидо, разгърнал един почти извънземен свят по тертипа на Дойл, където мастър Шерлок се заменя от странния субект Ханшичи.Кой обаче, или какво е господин Ханшичи?
Наглед като образ от японски театър, малко комичен, но и доволно агресивен съoбразно времето на шогуните, упорито отказващи да приемат съществуванието на друг свят освен техния.
Колкото голяма да беше аналогията с Шерлок Холмс, толкова и различно беше всичко.
Книгата носи онова толкова характерно спокойствие и лежерност на японските романи, което търся и във всички други книги, но не намирам все още.
:) Случаите на инспектор Ханшичи не са сложни и напрегнати главоблъсканици, макар наистина да става дума за убийства, то всичко е някак особено и дори на моменти абсурдно, имайки предвид средствата за разследване в една Япония от далечното минало.
Въпреки тези странности, случаите на нашия инспектор са изключително любопитни и приятни за четене.
Определено ми се ще да прочета още за нашия японски Шерлок Холмс.
It's a bittersweet feeling of something grand and at the same time simple, that got lost through the years.Something you've heard people older than you discuss, seen decayed and imagined in its original form, skeptical it was once so different from what you know.The amount of info, entertainment, magic contained in each of these stories make up for the disappointing "detective" elements.I've learned so much about 19th-century Japan thanks to Okamoto that I can't really give it less than four stars.
Inspector Hanshichi has been referred to as the Japanese Sherlock Holmes.
Okamoto Kido wrote the Hanshichi stories over a period of 20 years (1917-1937), though the stories were set in the period of the 1840s to the 1860s.
Some favorites of mine: "The Ghost of Ofumi" - the wife of a samurai claims she is being haunted"The Stone Lantern" - the mysterious disappearance (twice!) of a young woman"The Dancer's Curse" - the murder of the "Haunted Teacher""The Mansion of Morning Glories" - the disappearance of a young boyI enjoyed all the stories and the introduction, which is very informative and helps you understand the background of Okamoto Kido and the stories.
These were nice, a few of them were intriguing and the rest were still fun to read.
Un sherlock japonés mezclado con j-horror.
Intentaré ser sintético como la ropa del Decathlon.Varios relatos en los que el detective de Kanda resuelve casos "like a boss".
XIX.::Independientemente de lo anterior, ¿crees que es un buen libro?Soy muy fan de lo japo y, aunque he visto bastante cine, soy un profano en la narrativa japonesa.
No nos hemos entendido bien.::¿A quién lo recomendarías?Amantes de la cultura japonesa del siglo XIX.
Ya habrán visto obras mucho mejores en ese sentido.::¿Leerías más de este autor?No, con esto me conformo.::¿Qué te ha gustado más?El retrato de la sociedad japonesa, sus costumbres y supersticiones.
::¿Qué te ha gustado menos?Previsible.
I was the only person in there and it was creepy too, but eventually, I didn't mind the eerie feeling because I found lots of books by Russian, Middle Eastern, Indian, and Japanese authors!
And the cover was excellent as well!While the various cases encountered by our protagonist were quite entertaining, I didn't really feel the mind-boggling intensity whenever we are watching or reading good detective stories.
As a history geek myself, I loved the regular footnotes that appeared on the pages as well.I was debating giving this a two, but I understand how translating from one language to another takes away some of the essence and wit of the story, no matter how good the translation is.
Hanshichi is sometimes called the Japanese Sherlock Holmes, but the comparison is misleading.
The stories were written in the 1920s and 1930s, and the retired Hanshichi tells them to a younger friend in Tokyo in the 1890s, looking back to cases in Edo in the 1850s before the Meiji Restoration and the transformation of Japan.
So, unlike the evocation of contemporary England in Doyle's stories, these are deeply nostalgic, looking back to a vanished world divided from the world of its first readers by a wide gulf.
The world of Sherlock Holmes is open to ratiocination; the world of Hanshichi is mysterious, ghostly, only periodically explicable.
The actual crime and detection aspects are pretty much secondary, though, in a compilation easily enough seen as nostalgia for a bygone era.
It's a difficult compromise to hit on, since the nostalgia thing immediately nullifies any suspense generated in a 'crime' genre, and anything that promotes chaos & jeopardy too much ...
A bit like when Kurosawa allows his plots to go a little goofy (samurai getting drunk on saké, say)...
It doesn't always work.Nothing really un-likeable here, though, and if you'd like to take a breezy, carefree holiday in Meiji era Japan, this has it's moments.
If you're looking for something a little suspenseful or haunting ...
These short stories reveal the life and times of a city and its inhabitants in a time of social and political change. Our guide on this adventure is not the narrator but his "source", the detective Hanshichi, whose knowledge, insights and judgement solve cases with a practicality that is refreshing. These are "whodunits", but the reader doesn't become so absorbed in figuring that out, because there is too much to savour on the canvas of life and social interactions that is painted for us.
Не бях очарована от книгата, защото стилът ми беше скучен. Трудно ми е да оценя останалото в разказите именно заради този факт.Много ми допадна обаче корицата на книгата - изключително тематична! Харесаха ми й калиграфските букви в заглавията, макар че честно да си кажа - трудно ги разчитах.Ако сте пропуснали, ето едно ревю за книгата от другия книгоядец в блога: http://knigoqdec.blogspot.bg/2016/04/...
En este libro nos encontramos con Hanshichi, un inteligente detective que con su astuto e hábil sentido de intuición logra conseguir la información exacta con grandiosos interrogantes. Siempre te lleva la delantera!. También contamos con una excelente introducción de Linea de tiempo en la historia japonesa, cultura, tradición, arte; de esta forma nunca te vas a perder en la historia.
Siempre resulta interesante leer cosas de escritores de otros paises.:)
Много леки и приятни истории. Случаите са кратки, стегнато представени и тук отсъства онзи цинизъм и перверзност, чиито елементи често се откриват при поредицата от японските загадки например. Не е Шерлок Холмс като сложност на случаите, но дедукцията и опита на Ханшичи определено са водещи в разрешаването на ситуациите. Прави отлично впечатление добрата редакция, с липсващи правописни грешки и множеството пояснителни бележки (+въведението) за атмосферата, вярванията, йерархията и други, характерни за Едо преди Реставрацията Мейджи. Препоръчвам я на феновете на азиатската култура, в частност на японската, както и на почитателите на кримки, макар и не така сложни и дълги :)
Hanshichi de Okamoto Kidou, el primer libro de origen asiático que he leído y me encantó, algo nuevo a lo que estaba acostumbrada. Editorial Quaterni hizo un excelente trabajo agregando pies de páginas explicando temas que lectores de hablahispana no entenderíamos de la cultura japonesa. El libro cuenta los casos resueltos por el detective Hanshichi en un Japón supersticioso ya que se desarrolla en el Edo, lleno de ironía y sentido del humor, Okamoto hizo de Hanshichi el Sherlock Holmes Japones. 😊 5/5
Las comparaciones son odiosas, pero como lo dice en la introducción de este buen libro, Kidō se basó en Sherlok en algunos casos para la creación de este libro. Una añoranza por el antiguo Edo. Hanshichi un excelente investigador comparte sus casos con un joven. Donde mucho ven seres mágicos del Japón, el detective descubre cómo los humanos somos arrastrados por nuestras debilidad y cometemos crímenes.
Basado en el personaje de Sherlock Holmes, Kido creo a este detective japonés de la época de los sumarais del siglo XIX , desafortunadamente no llega a ese nivel y los casos tratados no tienen el mismo grado de ingenio que la obra de doyle , bien por la descripción de los hábitos y constumbres de esa época pero nada más.
Lo bueno de los relatos es que puedes disfrutar de varias historias en pequeñas dosis. Lo malo es que no siempre todos agradan por igual.El resultado de este volumen en general es bueno. Hay casos realmente interesantes, y otros no tanto.En cualquier caso, no deja de tener el interés histórico de conocer a uno de los detectives literarios más populares de Japón.
Synopsis: fourteen stories of criminal matters in feudal Edo (Tokyo) as told by the street-smart Inspector Hanshichi.
He disfrutado mucho las descripciones que hace de la época y la cultura japonesa, pero más allá el libro resulta un poco insulso y los casos hasta aburridos.
The best thing by far about this book is the description of the Edo period, which to me is fascinating. The stories, however, were not very engaging.
Very interesting and evocative -- a clear Sherlock Holmes figure from 1920s Japan.

I have chosen those I find most compelling, and I hereby put them before my readers, though not necessarily in chronological order.'After the first story, each one follows a set pattern, beginning with the young narrator paying a visit to the elderly Hanshichi who, we are told, always served 'the choicest tea and most delicious cakes'.
Following this brief introduction, the old man begins his tale, and at its conclusion he generally comments on how things have changed since he was a young man.Hanshichi himself is often likened to Sherlock Holmes, and there's no doubt that there are similarities (and Kidō was an admirer of Conan Doyle's work), but there are a greater number of differences between the two detectives.
Cosas que todo el mundo sabe de Hanshichi porque las reseñas se han encargado de mencionarlo una y o
This marked the time when Japan began to modernize rapidly by adopting western practices and many feudal customs.The protagonist is inspector Hanshichi (half-seven), a mid level detective in the Japanaese capital's police force.
And of course there is one set of laws for the poor and another set for the high ranking officials and samurai.Though the stories are set in the middle part of the 19th century, they were written in the first decades of the 20th century, at a time when many of the customs and attitudes of the characters would have seemed old fashioned or quaint to Kido's readers.
Ubicadas entre 1919 y 1940 aproximadamente, los diez relatos que conforman este libro no sólo nos permiten disfrutar de unas historias enigmáticas y en ocasiones sorprendentes, si no que nos abre la puerta a descubrir una sociedad tan fascinante como peculiar: recorreremos con el detective las casas de baños, mansiones de samurais, restaurantes de anguila, conoceremos a sirvientes y a importantes señores, sabremos cómo vestían, cuánto dinero ganaban, sus tradiciones e incluso qué comían.
