https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/396329.The_Man_Who_Fell_to_Earth
After a few years on Earth with no way to communicate with his home planet Newton begins to feel lonely and miserable, he also feels that he has gone native in that he now thinks more like a human than an Anthean.
Newton is not a happy alien even when things are going well for him, and when they go south the man who fell to earth probably wishes he had fallen somewhere else.
his name on earth will be t.j. newton (sometimes called tommy) and this novel is his story, of how our world affects him, physically and emotionally, as he tries to achieve his mission.there's not much more of a plot.
i can't imagine the film would be able to replicate the immersion in the disoriented and sad psyche of newton as he starts to realize he's not equipped to deal with being on earth; of being with him as he starts to crumble.
in fact there is a film based on the man who fell to earth in that book.
I'm so used to the writer as the essential protagonist, the writing as his conflict, and whether or not I want to throw away his book as his comedic or tragic end.
It's lightening-quick and so satisfying that I had to, for the first time, linger in a subway station to finish a book because I didn't want to wait until I got home.
(And that precise location, my friends, was the enigmatic, Escher-like layer of the W 4th St. station, between the blue and the orange floors, quite possibly the smelliest place out there, just to attest to the refreshment of the reading experience.)I have the DVD and cannot wait to watch it - maybe even tonight.Why only 4 stars then?
It might come off as slightly trite now, as with most mid-20th century fiction set in "the near future" (the late 1980s, of all things!), but I'm sure in 1963 it was truly a sign of the times.
What I'm sure hasn't lost its charge over the years is the tint of sadness, of individualized despair, that permeates the book and ultimately embitters the characters.
No one escapes their self-destructive fears - not the American government, not the curious scientist, and most especially not the titular visitor who comes to save his world but can't even save himself.
Come si possono sbizzarrire gli autori di fantascienza nel creare i loro personaggi provenienti dai 
3.5 to 4.0 stars. I really struggled between giving this 3 or 4 stars and settled closer to 4 for one primary reason: the ending of the story was deeply emotional and I believe will stay with me for some time. Apart from the excellent ending, the rest of the story was well-written, moved along at a good pace and kept me interested.
This novel follows an extraterrestrial, arriving on Earth to see if he can find a way to bring his drought suffering people into the planet so that they might live.
This is one of my favourite science-fiction classics, and is truly worth the read, as an exploration, not only of science, but of the human nature and politics.
I will tell you this, if it were a Greek play, it would be classified as a tragedy, and if you are like me, you might just weep tears of blood at the end and curse humanity for who we are and what we do, because of fear and ignorance.
Rielabora efficientemente il concetto di alienazione nella società post-moderna e post-industriale.2)Lo stile Uno stile asciutto, essenziale nel descrivere pensieri e rapporti dei personaggi, ma non per questo non pregno di significato.
Non è uno di quegli autori che ti sfianca con lo stesso concetto fino a fartelo entrare nella zucca.
Non c'è la volontà di spiazzare il lettore ("ed ora qualcosa di completamente diverso"), ma di condurlo per mano fino al centro della storia.Detto questo, quando un autore azzecca queste tre cose, per me non c'è null'altro da chiedere.
Dünyaya düşen bir adamın insanlaşmasını konu edinen "Dünyaya Düşen Adam"ı okurken elimden bırakamadım. En ağırından bir uzaylı hikayesi okuyacağımı zannederken kitap bittiğinde buram buram yozlaşma kokan, aslında bir insanın hikayesini okuduğumu farkettim.Kitabın, David Bowie'nin başrolünü üstlendiği bir de filmi çekilmiş. Konu olarak ayrı düştükleri baya bir nokta var diyorlar, o yüzden kitabı hali hazırda bu kadar kaliteliyken filmine hiç bulaşmaya gerek yok.
Only came to this book through a winding road of Valis by PKD in his description of David Bowie in the novel.
PKD was influenced by Bowie in the movie "The man who fell to earth".
I watched, thought it was interesting, and THEN finally read the novel, which, I'm sure most people will agree, was a lot better than the movie.
That being said, I did like the book quite a bit, being an outsider type of novel with a lot to say about those earthling aliens.
Fun read and well done, well worth being a classic, although perhaps it doesn't date as well as other novels.
Ashes to ashes, funk to funky, we know Major Thom’s a drunkard, strung out in heaven’s high, hitting an all-time low . . .
The characterization is clumsy, obvious and in the case of the gin soaked country woman straight out of "Lady For A Day" borders on self parody.
The social commentary is sometimes bizarre such as when our alien friend ruminates on the pros and cons of The Welfare State and sometimes obvious with it's JESUS WAS TEH ALIEN subtext.
And lordy if you don't think that a book as slight as 160 pages can be overwritten within an inch of it's life look no further then here for your proof.
Picked this one up somewhere in Edison Park, Chicago, my home in Park Ridge being right across Canfield/Ozanam from the city limits.
Read it on the same day I, rarely satisfied under our household's strict food regimen, bought my first real food, a can of black olives.The Man Who Fell to Earth was one of the saddest books I'd ever read at the time.
When, years later, the David Bowie film adaptation came out, I went to see it in Manhattan.
Although not as powerful as the book, it wasn't an entirely bad effort.
It is difficult to convey the inner life of a person in film.
This is the cover I had because Bowie. Read this more than once because Bowie. It suited him.
Who would have thought that a book about an alien coming to Earth could be so sad?? I was surprised at how much I enjoyed it.
I've discovered this book completely by chance (having heard of the film but never seen it) and absolutely fell in love with it.
The subject matter is timeless...every man is an island, so may be every alien as well, for this book deals with the basic human condition of loneliness as well or better than any other book of any genre.
Not every visitor fits in as well as Superman, just like not every human can be a shiny success story.
This book makes the reader think, feel and emote just like any good story should.
Di solito quando affronto un libro non leggo review prima di avere scritto qui il mio commento, eventualmente confronto dopo ma, in questo caso, terminato questo romanzo è stato necessario dargli un contesto storico (1963) e cercare anche i riferimenti biografici dell'autore.
Informazioni soddisfacenti e condivisibili.Aggiungo solo quello che mi rimane come sentimento inaccettabile dall'analisi della specie umana sperimentata dal protagonista extraterrestre Tommy, ed è la malizia , con la quale non ha fatto i conti pur avendo un'intelligenza e tecnologie superiori.
E, solo dopo essersi progressivamente "umanizzato", si rassegna all'evidenza.Direi che Tevis sia riuscito con estrema efficacia ad uscire dalla sua condizione terrena e guardare il mondo con occhi alieni.
On the outside, The Man Who Fell to Earth is about Thomas Jerome Newton, an alien from the planet Anthea, who has come to Earth seeking salvation for the last of his people but it's really about being alone inside your own skin and struggling to feel connected to anyone or anything before you die.Walter Tevis takes a subject that has been overdone, ooh a spaceship and an alien EXCITING!, and makes his own unique brand of sociopolitical science fiction.
The lyrical descriptions mesh well with the no nonsense dialogue to create a colorful yet direct backdrop to the storyline.
"Where will you go....with the money?""Maybe to the Pacific, to Tahiti. We'll probably take an air-conditioner with us."#theguywiththebookreview presents: The man who fell to Earth. This book is going to stay with me for a long time. Not because of great/good/pleasing writing but because I expect it to have many layers which will unearth themselves when I talk about it. Some moments of sheer frustration at our hapless nature gripped me by the end. The book was very effective in conveying a messa
Not because of great/good/pleasing writing but because I expect it to have many layers which will unearth themselves when I talk about it.‎ Some moments of sheer frustration at our hapless nature gripped me by the end.
It had a life of its own and some consciously recall-able moments.I would be spoiling a lot of readers' experience if I say more and to be fair to Walter Tevis it needs to be judged by everyone themselves.Would recommend it if anyone wants to read a Sci-Fi with a very human touch.If you do, let know how you felt about the last 2 lines.
Simply fantastic. This is one of the most heartbreaking novels written in the past 50 years.
The problem with this book is that author must have thought that the only way to make a person seem deep is to make them an alcoholic--alcoholism defines all three main characters in the book.
The vast majority of interactions in the book include drinking, which Tevis describes in painstaking detail, over and over again--what they are drinking, how they are drinking it, what the other characters think of what and how they are drinking, whether they stir their drinks or not, what the other characters think about whether they stirred or not.
If the author had found more creative ways to express the tragic elements of the human experience (besides alcoholism), it could have been a great book.
Bir süredir çok sevdigim sci-fi&fantasy kitaplardan uzak kalmistim; ozlemimi muhteşem bir kitap seçimiyle dindirdim, bir solukta okunmasi kacinilmaz mükemmel bir kurgu örneği.
For 'The Man Who Fell to Earth is a poignant novel'.
Walter Tevis was not your typical sci-fi writer and 'The Man Who Fell to Earth' is not your typical work of science fiction either.
And the main character might look like a man, but - as it happens - doesn't belong to the human race but comes from planet Anthea.
The uneasiness of Mr Newton, the Man who Fell to Earth, first in dealing with Earthlings and then with himself is non extraterrestrial, but very much a human feeling.
Ostensibly a story about an extraterrestrial, this is a profoundly human story of isolation, self-destruction, and failure.Arriving incognito on a mission to save his dying home planet, the newly named Thomas Newton stumbles into Haneyville (pop.
1400) and is immediately unsettled by the appearance of the locals: “...
the look, the feel, was strange - even though he had known that seeing them would not be the same as watching them on television.”It’s an outsider’s novel, later described by its author as a thinly disguised autobiography.
Both missions end in defeat.
Every page is soaked in ill-advised booze, and the portrayal of Newton's cosmic loneliness is heartfelt and red raw.
A book that makes you feel pride after you've read it.
Walter Travis is clearly a writer with huge story telling abilities which lead me, at times, to think that I was reading Stephen King Novel.The charachters are developed, and have a certain level of depth.
They´re developed enough for you to care about them, which is always something important in a novel.Although a short book, the story it tells is big and would never be forgotten after you've read it.
A história é super cativante, sobre um alienígena que vem pra terra e começa a transformar a nossa forma de viver com novas tecnologias, novos estudos e novas possibilidades. O plot é incrível, mas o ritmo não me pegou. Demorei pra ler o livro e ele é bem linear. Não é a leitura com altos e baixos, cheia de emoções, mas isso não é um "erro" e sim só o estilo do livro mesmo. Não combinou muito comigo, mas reconheço toda a genialidade da obra. Ainda vale a leitura <3
Not a huge fan of Sci-fi but it's still a fun read. Not much happens really, it follows two main characters ~ T.J. Newton the alien millionaire and Nathan Bryce that's wants to find out who Newton really is and why he's here. I don't think it gets into real depth about Newton's situation enough, its more interested in should humans be saved, Republicans and alien Jesus.
I love this book. I wish the edition were not so glossy and ugly. The one I read was packaged with the film in the Criterion Collection set. Still haven't gotten around to watching the movie (I know! David Bowie! What am I waiting for?). for real, read this.
Although I had very much enjoyed that novel when I read it, it hadn't occurred to me to check out anything else the author had written and, although dimly aware of this book for many years (also being a Bowie fan) I hadn't connected the two.Anyhow, there are probably a number of similarities between the two books.
This will be a mutually beneficial arrangement because with their superior technology and long history from which they have learned from the folly of near self annihilation, they can help humanity avoid a similar fate (which the protagonists of the story, and presumably the author himself, thought was inevitable within a matter of years).
Then you read it, and with a bit of biographical information it makes sense.“The Man Who Fell to Earth” is the story of Thomas Newton, an alien who appears in Kentucky, he has a pocketful of gold rings and a mind full of inventions that he’s brought to earth to make millions of dollars to build a spaceship to bring the rest of his species from their dying planet.
For such a short book “The Man Who Fell to Earth” is filled with lots of themes that different readers are sure to pick up on.
