https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/23553419-the-ice-twins
‘You keep saying she’s dead but she comes back to play with me, she was here, she was at school, she plays with me, she is my sister, it doesn’t matter if she’s dead, she’s still here, still here, I’m here, we are here – why do you keep saying we’re dead, when we’re not we’re not we’re not.’ This was a fantastically atmospheric book about mistaken twin identities, fraught with tension. I absolutely loved the depiction of a family broken apart by grief, and the portrait of a marriage simmering w
What?’‘Why do you keep calling me Kirstie, Mummy?
Sarah and Angus had the perfect marriage, the picture-perfect family with beautiful blonde identical twin daughters, Lydia and Kirstie.
Kirstie, Sarah, and Angus have no other choice.As if the move isn't bad enough, Angus and Sarah as faced with the question of which twin actually died.
Was it Sarah or Kirstie?
In their grief, they never thought to question the fact that the surviving twin declared that it was her sister who died.
And now Sarah is left alone to deal with her daughter's grief...and maybe something else.
Sarah and Angus' marriage is unraveling fast.
I really wanted to like this, I had seen a lot of 5 star ratings, not read any reviews and thought I was in for a treat.
The rest of the story is the aftermath between the parents and their rising anxiety as to which twin actually died as doubts begin to creep in.I'm not going to go too much into the storyline, I don't want to spoil it for anyone but a lot here didn't work for me.
Here I found her character to be so unlikeable as the book progressed, I actually stopped caring, I couldn't feel anything for her.
It took me through a range of feelings and my brain hurt from trying to guess what was the truth.
Let's take a moment to reflect on the story.A year after one of their identical twin daughters, Lydia, dies in an accident, Angus and Sarah Moorcraft move to the tiny Scottish island Angus inherited from his grandmother, hoping to put together the pieces of their shattered lives.But when their surviving daughter, Kirstie, claims they have mistaken her identity – that she, in fact, is Lydia – their world comes crashing down once again.What the?
It sent my mind into such a spin that even now, writing this review I am thinking “Have I got those names in the right context?” It is a book that I didn’t want to put down, but at the same time I just had to keep putting it to one side and just get everything straight in my head and try and work out what had happened.Angus and Sarah’s relationship is already strained and what happens now is bound to add even more tension, and I particularly liked the way the author shows their marriage crumbling further away bit by bit as the story progressed.
Lydia and Kirstie were identical twin girls, but one tragic night one of them dies.
Thus starts the gripping and creepy story about what really happened.
The girls parents (Angus and Sarah) are having some financial troubles so they decide to move out to an island that Angus grandmother owned.
Before they moved to the island, Kirstie started acting strange.
She started acting like her sister Lydia.
It gets so bad they have to call her Lydia at the new school they enroll her in and try to keep up the facade.
I mean you just can't help getting creeped out at some things.
Especially the behaviour of the kid (Lydie-loo or Kirstie-koo?) makes you feel you are in the middle of a creepy ghost story.
Behind the name of S.K. Tremayne there is said to be a well known British author, even Julian Barnes, J.K. Rowling and Ian McEwan are mentioned, best bets on journalist and writer Sean Thomas.The story:One year after one of their identical twin daughters, Lydia, dies in an accident, Angus and Sarah Moorcraft move to the tiny Scottish island Angus inherited from his grandmother, hoping to put together the pieces of their shattered lives.
Sarah is feeling isolated, and Kirstie (or is it Lydia?) is growing more disturbed.
What did I just read?
I did not like this book.
I didn't like the same things that the other four unfavorable reviews pointed out: flat characters, the nonsensical decision to move a grieving twin to an isolated island...without a boat, non-communicative parents but that was all part of the story and I don't need to like all the pieces or characters to enjoy the story.
I couldn't wait to read this because it had so much creepy potential.
As I was reading I came up with six or seven possible scenarios right away (which I can't share because even though none of them happened, letting you know that none of them happened would be spoilery).
I'm not going to say much about this one, because the whole point of a GOOD thriller is to go in as fresh as possible!!!!!I will say that if this book and The Girl on the Train ever got into a fist fight, The Ice Twins would be on death row for murder, no hope for an appeal. Get your creepy, icy twin fun right here, folks!!!! 5 stars!!!!
Five things you need to know about The Ice Twins.
If this book does not appear somewhere in some subconcious form or another in my dreams tonight I shall be very surprised.2) Storytelling genius.
You need to read it.
The pure and haunting prose and beautifully constructed plot will engage and enchant you at the same time as having you feeling vaguely afraid of something you can’t quite capture.3) Atmosphere.
One of the most atmospheric and exquisite novels I have read for some time.
I hate boxes for books.
I’m not going to tell you whether or not that worry is justified because I really am that mean.Highly Recommended.
At one point Sarah and Angus Moorcroft had it all: beautiful monozygotic twin girls, Sarah and Kirstie, blissfully happy marriage and a beautiful family dog, Beany.
The island is only accessible by boat during high tide and they feel this is perfect for the whole family, especially the surviving twin, Kirstie.
Sarah seems to think her daughter is haunted by Lydia, but she too doesn't confide in Angus about this.I also found it totally unbelievable that the parents, especially the mother, couldn't tell her children apart.
They can't tell their daughter apart and the twins were wearing the same kind of clothing on the day one of them died.This is a real page turner, never a dull moment and the ending of the book, well I was afraid that S.K. Tremayne wouldn't be able to write a satisfying ending, but he did.
This is without one of the best thrillers I have ever read and I recommended it strongly to anyone that likes psychological thrillers.On a side note: S.K. Tremayne was a woman, but it's Tom Knox, and he usually writes archaeological and religious thrillers.
This was one of those books that I had to take what I know to be true in reality and set it aside and just enjoy the story for what it was.As you would probably guess from the title, the story focuses on a pair of identical twin girls, Kirstie and Lydia.
I mean mixing twins up when they are babies is a definite possibility but by the time the kids reach school age, like the girls in this story, I just don't see it happening.
The little girl, either Lydia or Kirstie, just seemed creepy to me throughout the book.
"Sometimes things aren’t remotely as you imagined, sometimes what you thought was reality does not exist at all." Well, color me surprised! This was such an unnerving, gripping novel that coalesces with the insidious, intolerable, and malevolent to form an eerie, psychological thriller filled with paranormal overtones that upend the psyche leaving one bamboozled! This one is utterly believable, although not perfect all throughout, in my honest opinion.Kirstie and Lydia are monozygotic twins. Id
"Sometimes things aren’t remotely as you imagined, sometimes what you thought was reality does not exist at all."
This one is utterly believable, although not perfect all throughout, in my honest opinion.Kirstie and Lydia are monozygotic twins.
Kirstie/Lydia acts unusually strange as if inheriting something from the dead twin and becoming the other one.
My only quibble is the supernatural aspect which was left unexplained/weird or presumably a plot hole, especially the part where Lydia/Kirstie was at school and everyone seems to freak out because of the duplicitous identity.
I can understand some of the criticisms I had read such as it being too slow etc but for me there was enough suspense to keep me interested.The story tells of Sarah and her husband Angus who are planning to relocated to a remote Hebrides island with their seven year old daughter Kirstie following the tragic death of her identical twin Lydia.
Kirstie starts acting strangely and claims that she is actually Lydia, the twin who died, a claim that her mother Sarah starts to believe.
3.5 rating Quoting the blurp on Goodreads:"In the tradition of 'The Girl On the Train' comes bestseller UK 'The Ice Twins', a terrifying psychological thriller with a twisting plot worthy of Gillian Flynn".I haven't read "The Girl on the Train".
(I've nothing to compare)Yet, the blurp says 'enough', doesn't it?
A standing room-only review!
Speaks clearly!
As to WHY I read this book?
Yet--to be honest --I go back & forth about my thoughts of reading books like this -in the first place.
I prefer not to include a heavy diet of psychological thrillers -- especially involving children.
3.5 Moving to an inherited island in Scotland, this family wants only the chance to start over after the death of their daughter, one of a set on identical twins.The setting was alternately beautiful and intimidating.
But which twin died?
Who is keeping secrets and is the twin that is left telling the truth?
A good, twisty and creepy, a little suspension of belief is needed here as we follow the unbelievable, and attempt to learn the secrets of that fatal day.
Really helped me picture their location.Good story that kept me reading to find out what would be the final reveal.
If you want to prove my point you can just read the beginning and end of each chapter and I guarantee you won't miss anything.
If there was no mystery I would have stopped reading, but I read/skimmed my way to the end just to find out what happened.
This one just doesn't stand out among its competition.
In fact, it doesn't really stand out at all.
A good book will keep me enthralled, reading every word, turning pages quickly, not wanting to put the book down.
I only turned the pages quickly this time to be done with the book and move on.
(Source: I received a digital copy of this book for free on a read-to-review basis. Thanks to HarperCollins UK, HarperFiction/Blue Door and NetGalley.)  “She is Lydia.”  (These babies are soooooo cute!)This is quite a haunting story about a woman who lost one of her identical twins, but wasn’t sure which twin had died and which twin was still alive.I did feel sorry for Sarah in this story, as it must have been awful to lose a child. I did find it a little odd that she couldn’t tell her 6-year-ol
(These babies are soooooo cute!)This is quite a haunting story about a woman who lost one of her identical twins, but wasn’t sure which twin had died and which twin was still alive.I did feel sorry for Sarah in this story, as it must have been awful to lose a child.
The storyline in this was about Sarah’s surviving daughter insisting that she was Lydia – the twin Sarah believed to have died, and the problems this created, as well as the fact that they were seemingly haunted by the dead twin.
I don't understand this book. It starts off so well, especially when the creepiness sets in. But then I felt like things were being hammered into me. I thought, "OK, I get it. C'mon, not another chapter telling me the same thing." The problem is the book wasn't telling me what I needed to know. I have unanswered questions, and there are things that don't make sense to me. My biggest questions all seem to start with WHY? Now in hindsight, there are things that are implausible. The more I think about this book, the lower my rating goes.
The Ice Twins presents two parents who are unappealing and seem to not talk to one another about a danged thing that matters, or even the mundane conversations that fill every marriage.
It's quite odd, quite early on in the book, when one discovers that Gus has had an extraordinary and key conversation with the remaining twin - and never told his wife a word of it.
The Ice Twins went off the rails for me at this point - even parents who don't speak to one another would immediately call off the school experiment and home school or do nothing until they figure out what's going on.
The Ice Twins.I wondered how the author came up with that title, now I know, and very apt it was too.This story blew me away, I was glued to my Kindle reading this into the early hours of the morning.
The author answered my long puzzled question in this book, it was well researched.If one of the twins died, how would you know which one if they grew up pretending to be each other to play pranks?
I often figure out the big reveal before the end, and am sorely disappointed.This one surprised me.Angus and Sarah Moorcraft are struggling to pick up the pieces after one of their beautiful twin daughters, Lydia dies in an accident.
They decide to move to an old family home isolated on a Scottish island that Angus has inherited with their remaining daughter, Kirstie.
But as Kirstie's behavior becomes more and more bizarre they are forced to face what really happened the day Lydia died.The pattern.
I didn’t enjoy the story but I loved the writing, excellent pacing and the suspense was dreadfully intense.
All the characters are stuck in this muck of memoriesThe whole story is bleak even the setting.
The setting fits perfectly for the story.This surviving child, she frightened me, my heart broke for her and I disliked her.She is so off, so twisted.
I just couldn’t like her.There are so many secrets Secrets cause pain, some of them are already exposed some stay hidden slowly revealing to a horrific realization.I hated the story, hated the unending pain and sorrow.
I loved the writing, even with a subject I found unpalatable I could not stop reading.
I'm Lydia."With these chilling words, Sarah Moorcroft's remaining twin tells her that she and her husband Angus may have made a terrible mistake about which twin they buried a year ago.
With a view to starting afresh they sell their London house and move to a dilapidated lighthouse-keeper's cottage on a small island near Skye, left to Angus by his grandmother.
Kirstie/Lydia's confusion about her identity becomes worse and she imagines her twin is present in the house.
Angus and Sarah are both hiding secrets about what happened the day Lydia died and their revelations will change everything.
5 Words: Mystery, family, love, secrets, lies.Guys, this book is INSANE.Even a week after finishing this, it is still distracting me.
I can't stop thinking about it.The Ice Twins has a very mixed pace - it swing backwards and forwards between fast and slow, and I was never quite sure when that pace going to tip back in the other direction.
The story is packed with twists and turns and one crazily unreliable narrator, I honestly had no idea what was happening at times.I received a copy of this for free via Goodreads First Reads.
But then again, every stupid thing anyone does in horror stories is a mystery to me.
This story is very compelling, and I read the book in one sitting.
It also annoyed me to no extent that this author could not decide whether she wanted this to be a thriller or a horror.Another problem I had with this book is that I'm tired of the mother being the bad guy in such stories.
That said, I would recommend this book to people who aren't as anal about horror stories as I am.
O carte impresionanta! Care se joacă nu doar cu emoțiile tale, ci si cu ceea ce crezi ca s-a întâmplat cu adevărat. Un thriller foarte bine scris, cu suspans la cote maxime. Personaje bine create si o poveste care te frânge. Iar la final îți oferă o perspectiva neașteptata si in același timp, șocanta!
Angus and Sarah Moorcroft were once parents to identical twin daughters.
But with such strong similarities between the two, how can their parents ever really be sure which daughter truly died and which one survived?
I appreciated how the borders between mystery, horror, supernatural, and gothic fiction were consistently blurred and how the multiple climaxes and conclusions were impossible to presume prior to the author delivering them.My only small contention was the sluggishness of the middle portion and the slight repetitiveness of the events that occurred there.
Honestly, if I hadn't recently read Little Black Lies by Sharon Bolton (which has a very similar setting and gothic atmosphere) I may have rated this book higher.
That isn't always a bad thing, but I felt that I was left with more questions than answers (for those of you who read this book I would love to discuss your thoughts!!)Overall I liked this book.
The mystery was certainly intriguing, and I found myself reading late into the night, wanting to uncover the secrets everyone seemed to have.Overall I would recommend this book.
If you enjoyed Little Black Lies or like a dark Gothic mystery, I would recommend this to you.
It seemed sort of Mystery/Thriller, but beyond that I knew nothing.This story boils down to a grieving family moving to a remote Scottish island after the death of one of the twin daughters.
With no real way to tell them apart, the very real prospect that they had a funeral for the wrong twin starts to eat away at the family.There are twists throughout, and then twists on top of those.
I listened to the audiobook for a large portion of the book and the voice for the little girl almost pushed ME over the edge with its creepiness.Only small complaint would be pacing, but I can't say I ever got bored.
