https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/431.The_New_York_Trilogy
In "City of Glass," he creates a "strange loop" (Hofstadter's term) between the world captured by the narrative and the one inhabited by the reader, with no clear line between them: the boundaries between what's real and what's fiction are masterfully blurred.Reading the novel, you almost begin to suspect that you were meant to be a character, that Auster probably viewed our world as identical (or at least isomorphic) to the one inhabited by Quinn, Stillman, et.
Άλλωστε αυτός ειναι και ο σκοπός του βιβλίου, δεν χωράει σε πλαίσια,σε συνηθισμένες πλοκές με αρχή-μέση-τέλος.
Αυτές λοιπόν οι υπάρξεις προσπαθούν με αυτοθυσία να μην παρεκκλίνουν απο τους πραγματικούς τους εαυτούς οι οποίοι-όπως και ο συγγραφέας-δεν πρέπει να χάσουν την αλήθεια τους μέσα στο ψέμμα που δημιουργούν οι ίδιοι ανάμεσα σε αυτόν τον κόσμο και τον κόσμο της φαντασίας.
Όλοι αυτοί οι ήρωες μπορεί και να είμαστε εμείς οι ίδιοι ή κάποιοι που προσποιούνται πως ειναι εμείς.
Αυτή βεβαίως κατα την γνώμη μου ειναι και η μαγεία του συγγραφέα.
219. The New York Trilogy, Paul AusterThe New York Trilogy is a series of novels by Paul Auster. Originally published sequentially as City of Glass (1985), Ghosts (1986) and The Locked Room (1986), it has since been collected into a single volume.The first story, City of Glass, features a detective-fiction writer become private investigator who descends into madness as he becomes embroiled in a case. It explores layers of identity and reality, from Paul Auster the writer of the novel to the unna
Auster calls his article an "imaginative reading," and in it he examines possible identities of Cide Hamete Benengeli, the narrator of the Quixote.The second story, Ghosts, is about a private eye called Blue, trained by Brown, who is investigating a man named Black on Orange Street for a client named White.
Blue becomes frustrated and loses himself as he becomes immersed in the life of Black.The Locked Room is the story of a writer who lacks the creativity to produce fiction.
Ma quanto è bello pedinare (e essere pedinati) da Paul Auster?
I was thinking of starting off this review the same way, given that this book leaves you wondering about everything, but thinking about that as an option makes it also dishonest, because I would know where to start with this review.
The book starts with the quirky idea of the first story's protagonist being called up by a person looking for "Paul Auster".
The author, the characters, the reader are all embroiled in these stories of stake-outs, shadowing, minicious observations and carefully planned investigations and what starts out as a seemingly cute gimmick of having the author's name as part of the story turns into an adventure you yourself become part of.
It's becoming clear that Auster has adopted very interesting themes, such as the transitory nature of fiction and reality; the writer's world manifested in a literal form; & the double...
Yeah, Auster is in love with New York, with the writer, & obviously with himself.
But doesn't the saying go "Write what you KNOW"?
And Auster, perhaps not really knowing how his novels will EVER end, does do something very admirable: He keeps the reader in a trance, submerging him/her in a world completely constructed from the marriage of the writer's everyday experience and his almost-visceral psyche.
I think this was my first encounter with Paul Auster, a man who I met through the cult of the 1001 books to read before you die list.
For the first forty pages I'd already rather rudely pigeon-holed the book as "arty-wank", thinking to myself, Oh dear this looks like it is entering into pretentious toss territory.
In a complete about turn I then had to remove the book from the arty-wank pigeon hole and give it a little hug.
This one is deserving of a place on the 1001 books to read before you die list - just don't let the first forty pages fool you.

By coming to the end, perhaps he could intuit the beginning.To seek we must have an object we want to find.
To quest we must have a goal we want to achieve.
But even if we don’t have an objective we seek and quest anyway because we want to penetrate into the future.
In his little speech to Alice, Humpty Dumpty sketches the future of human hopes and gives the clue to our salvation: to become masters of the words we speak, to make language answer our needs.
I should have been more civil, initially and subsequently.Update: WELL, CONGRATULATIONS, PAUL AUSTER!!I wouldn't actually have thought it possible, but with the breathtakingly sophomoric intellectual pretension of the final 30 pages of "City of Glass", you have actually managed to deepen my contempt and loathing for you, and the overweening, solipsistic, drivel that apparently passes for writing in your particular omphaloskeptic corner of the pseudo-intellectual forest in which you live, churning out your mentally masturbatory little turdlets.Gaaaah.
PASS THE BRAINBLEACH.Earlier comment begins below:My loathing for the only other of Paul Auster's books that I had read (the Music of Chance) was so deep that it's taken me over ten years before I can bring myself to give him another chance.
Baudelaire cited by Paul Auster in City of Glass: "Il me semble que je serais toujours bien là où je ne suis pas." In other words: It seems to me that I will always be happy in the place where I am not.
I read some reviews here of City of Glass which were rather aggressively negative.
'In three variants on the classic detective story, Paul Auster makes the well-traversed terrain of New York city his own, as it becomes a strange, compelling landscape in which identities merge or fade and questions serve only to further obscure the truth.'I stayed on in the house for a few more days.
"Να νοιάζεσαι για τις λέξεις, να ποντάρεις σε ο, τι γράφεται, να πιστεύεις στη δύναμη των βιβλίων. Αυτό υπερβαίνει όλα τα υπόλοιπα και, πέρα από αυτό, η ζωή του ανθρώπου γίνεται πολύ μικρή."Δηλώνω Οστερικη μετά απο αυτές τις 3 εξαιρετικές ιστορίες. Θα επανέλθω με περισσότερα σχόλια όταν αναρρώσω από το διαολεμένο συνάχι.

Auster's first novel/second book/first of his 'New York Trilogy', 'City of Glass' is simultaneously a detective novel, an exploration of the author/narrative dynamic, and a treatise on language.
Those chapters reminded me obliquely (everything in City of Glass is oblique) of Gaddis.In the end, however, it all seemed like Auster had read Gaddis wanted to write a PoMo novel to reflect the confusing nature of the author/narrator/translator/editor role(s) of 'Don Quixote', set it all in Manhatten, and wanted to make the prose and story fit within the general framework of a detective novel.
The reason is that I assumed that the book being a trilogy is composed of 3 totally unrelated stories since I read in the write up that the stories were published one at a time in a weekly magazine in the 80s.
I agree with what they say that Paul Auster contributed to American literature by having a totally different writing style – the mixed up identities, the infusion of psychological insights into the narratives (Don Quixote for example in the second story) and even witty practical advises to the reader (you have to slow down to appreciate literature – to which I am a bit guilty because I have been reading books one after the other).
Our lives carry us along in ways we cannot control, and almost nothing stays with us. It dies when we do, and death is something that happens to us every day. Qué gran libro. Mi primero de Auster y sin dudas no será el último. En ocasiones un poco pesado, en muchas otras se estanca, pero es innegable que esta obra es brillante. Personajes excelsamente desarrollados, vívidas descripciones y tramas desbordantes de locura y mentes extraviadas buscando un hogar.Con una prosa soberbia, este autor me
Personajes excelsamente desarrollados, vívidas descripciones y tramas desbordantes de locura y mentes extraviadas buscando un hogar.Con una prosa soberbia, este autor me llevó de recorrido por tres historias sobre personas solitarias que están tan vacías que ya no sienten el peso de la vida.
Tan huecas que sus identidades están desdibujadas por un juego de fragmentadas realidades.
Y Auster, para experimentar un poco con esas almas perdidas, como un dios que todo lo puede, interrumpe la vacua cotidianidad de los protagonistas con hechos extraordinarios que terminarán por borrar cualquier residuo de identidad propia para reemplazarla con una nueva, que no podrán sostener.
I can't believe I read this all the way through, but I just kept thinking that at some point, something has to happen.
There is no experience to it, no stake in the characters, and like I said, nothing of note really happens.
When Auster makes an attempt to wrap up the disjointed and feeble plot lines after two and three-quarter books of emptiness and abrupt endings, it feels like he is just throwing words and sentences out in order to get it over with.
At this point, I didn't care.
(عالم الكتب تدب فيه الحياة , ويغلي بالاحتمالات و الأسرار والمتناقضات , ولمّا كان أي شئ يقال أو يُرى 
Consummate MetafictionIf you’re interested in reading just one example of metafiction, I can’t think of any better work than "The New York Trilogy" (except perhaps Thomas Pynchon’s  "The Crying of Lot 49"). Paul Auster mightn’t get the same accolades as other writers of post-modern fiction, if only because he has built a loyal readership that doesn’t depend on post-modern academics and spin merchants: "This recognition by a non-academic community may account for the lack of critical attention gi
We know when we open up a book of fiction that we’re reading something that is imaginary, and I’ve always been interested in exploiting that fact, using it, making it part of the work itself.
I have no other verifiable facts about what happened this evening.The next Friday, when it was still light, I was surprised to see Sophie Fanshawe visit the man, who by now I inferred was a writer, despite how little writing he seemed to be doing, even compared with the amount entailed in the reports I had committed to.If Virginia Stillman had appeared to be forward, Sophie was even more enthusiastic.
Tuče na ferku su visoko cenjene u svim krugovima, pa niko ne zamera što je to malo bajata fora.Upravo to Pol Oster radi čitaocu Njujorške trilogije.Najpre ću se malo čuditi nad nemalim brojem komentara da su ovo tri nezavisne priče među kojima je teško pronaći vezu.
Nisam se baš načitala američke književnosti zato što mi kod većine tamošnjih pisaca ona pomenuta zabava uvek ostane samoj sebi svrha, što mi brzo dosadi, ali Oster ima malo evropejskog šlifa i finog francuskog glanca, pa je elemente visprenije ukrojio, štepovi mu se ne vide i tako postiže izvesni stepen elegancije (dok američka elegancija ostaje skoro pa oksimoron).Nije Pol Oster kriv što je došao na red malo posle Havijera Marijasa, pa sad ne može i on da dobije peticu jer nema dovoljno ležernosti da padnem u nesvest.
Estas tres novelas me parecieron más una forma de problematizar la identidad y la literatura antes que un homenaje a New York a través de la escritura.
Lo cierto es que esta novela atrapa por la forma en que ahoga al personaje en su propia red, en sus obsesiones y en el hecho de “creerse otro”.
Eso no significa que sea mala, sino todo lo contrario: Auster parece redoblar el juego de las identidades y, para colmo, los personajes tienen nombres de colores.
No sé si me gustó más que  Ciudad de cristal,  pero la amé (otra vez) porque toca la literatura como tema secundario, pero pone especial foco en el proceso de escritura.
This is fiction about fiction, writing about the writer.
Who’s the author and who’s the imagined character?
Auster's characters aren’t “real” people (even when they are autobiographical) in the sense that you might invite one over for dinner, but are real in the sense that you might imagine yourself dissolving into fiction, or have the sense that the self is fiction.These are stories that demand that the reader NOT check her brain at the door: disquieting, self-weary perhaps, not particularly plot-driven.
Detective stories in the sense that characters follow one another around and spy on one another.
Characters disappear.
I can't write anything about this novel. This isn't some predictable, pitiful attempt to make an opening. I literally can't write anything about it. I've been squeezing my mind over it since yesterday, but no. Read it.
رواية مجنونة، مثل شخص يلعب معك لعبة، باستثناء أن اللعبة هي كابوس. لم أقرأ شيئًا كهذا منذ زمنٍ طويل..
في منتصف الثمانينات صدرت لأوستر رواية " مدينة الزجاج " و التي قام برفضها سبعة عشر ناشر حتى جازف أحدهم بطباعتها و ذلك لكونها رواية غير مألوفة و غامضة إن صح التعبير.
من عبقرية أوستر أنه توقع هذا الحنق ليربت على كتف القاريء بجملة من كتاب " والدن " ترجو من القارئ أن يتهمل في قرائته حتى يستوعبه كاملاً!
هناك الكثير من السطور التي سيطل بها أوستر مخاطباً القارئ بشكل غير مباشر.
في الرواية الأولى يلعب كوين دور التحري - علماً أنه كاتب عادي لا أقل و لا أكثر - بينما يذهب التحري بلو ليهدر سنة من عمره في مراقبة شخص آخر في " الأشباح " و في الرواية الثالثة تتحول رسالة فانشو صديق الطفولة إلى ديناميت من شأنه أن يدمر كل شيء.
The New York Trilogy is an incredible anthology of mystery stories, written with an evocative voice and a completely original style.
Το πιο άχρωμο, άοσμο, ανάλατο βιβλίο που διάβασα τουλάχιστον τον τελευταίο χρόνο και που ο ένας και μοναδικός λόγος που το τελείωσα και δεν το παράτησα κάπου στη σελίδα 50 όπου και κολάστηκα για πρώτη από τις πολλές φορές που ακολούθησαν ήταν γιατί ήθελα να δω μέχρι που θα φτάσει η βλακεία του συγγραφέα.
Ισως από τα πιο οδυνηρά διαβάσματα που έχω κάνει με κάθε σελίδα να κυλάει απίστευτα βαρετά εν μέσω χασμουρητών και αναρώτησης του βασικού νοήματος.
Να γράψω την κριτική μου και στα αγγλικά μπας και τη δει ο συγγραφέας σοκαριστεί και δεν ξαναγράψει τίποτα και μας απαλλάξει απο την παρουσία του στο λογοτεχνικό κόσμο?
το κόκκινο σημειωματάριο είναι το βαρίδιο, η συνεχής υπενθύμιση όλων να μείνουν πιστοί στους πραγματικούς εαυτούς τους, η συνεχής υπενθύμιση του ίδιου τις συγγραφέα να μείνει πιστός στις δικές του λέξεις, πιστός στον εαυτό του, πιστός στην ξεχωριστή θέση των χαρακτήρων του στους φανταστικούς, πλασμένους από τον ίδιο, κόσμους τουςτο pattern φυσικά, που ψάχνουν χαρακτήρες αλλά κι όλοι μας, δεν υπάρχει, γιατί, ας σοβαρευτούμε, that’s life και το μόνο που έχουμε είναι ο εαυτός μας.
O Poder da Palavra de Paul Auster em três romances curtos, que se interligam.
Um livro "negro" em que ficção e realidade se confundem; e onde a obsessão por entender o "Outro" pode levar à solidão extrema, à loucura e à perda da própria identidade.
Como não tenho o poder de Auster para elaborar um comentário razoável sobre este livro (nem sei se entendi todo o seu significado), selecionei, para ilustrar a ideia que retirei de cada história, imagens de três Grandes de outra Arte que, como a Literatura, me faz "perder o juízo"...
A CIDADE DE VIDRO
Trilogia di New York mi ha mandato in crisi durante la lettura e mi sta mandando in crisi adesso, mentre sono davanti ad uno schermo chiedendomi cosa mai potrei dire su questo libro senza risultare confusionaria.
Si intitola Trilogia di New York perché contiene tre storie, diverse per certi aspetti, ma molto simili per altri; tutte e tre le storie sono ambientate a New York, e fin qui è stato semplice.La prima storia si intitola Città di vetro.
Ένας κόσμος που ορισμένως μοιάζει γερασμένος παρόλο που επιμένει να βιώνει μια υστερική και εντελώς παράταιρη νιότη.Οι ήρωες στις ιστορίες του Auster σπάνε σταδιακά τους δεσμούς τους με τον κόσμο και την εποχή τους γίνονται αρχετυπικές μορφές που δεν μπορεί να τους χωρέσει καμιά διήγηση, δεν μπορεί να τους περιγράψει καμιά λέξη και στο τέλος εξαϋλωμένοι, σβήνουν, για να ανάψουν κάπου αλλού σε κάποιο απρόσιτο σε εμάς, ουράνιο στερέωμα, σαν μεταμορφωμένοι αστερισμοί.Το διάβασα στα αγγλικά με μεγάλη ευκολία, η γραφή του είναι απλή, χωρίς γλωσσικές ακροβασίες, ρέουσα και μεστή.
Dans les trois romans de sa trilogie new yorkaise – "City of glass", "Ghosts" et "Revenants" – Paul Auster brouille les pistes en emmêlant infiniment les mêmes thèmes et les mêmes images : la filature, le langage, l'écriture, le personnage du détective, surgissent à nouveau sous de nouvelles identités et de nouveaux traits.
Telle l'unifinished music de John Lennon et Yoko Ono, pour rester dans les références new yorkaises, c'est au lecteur d'Auster que revient l'interprétation finale de son oeuvre.L'entrelacement d'images et de références fait tenir ces trois textes comme un ensemble ; ça et, bien sûr, le thème de New York.
At times The New York Trilogy strikes me as something like the movie Saw for intellectual types.
People who enjoy Saw tell me that it "messes with your mind," when what they really like are the suspense and the gore.
Readers who enjoy The New York Trilogy tell me that it "challenges your perception of reality" (the intellectual form of the above statement), when what they really like is all of the cleverness and the self-reflexive smartypants in-jokes.
The Locked Room feels the same, and Ghosts was even more disappointing, reading like a poor minimalist imitation of Borges.
Such is the way of the world: one step at a time, one word and then the next.” The elaborate setup, leading to the open ending finale, the utter ambiguity of the three stories, might have been frustrating in the hands of a lesser author.
As areader, you (vainly) try to grasp the meaning of this whole book, though, in Auster’s view (or at least in his narrator’s view), sense cannot be made of the story of anyone’s life.
Perhaps the best summary of Auster’s point is the narrator’s synopsis of Fanshawe’s work: It is as if Fanshawe knew his final work had to subvert every expectation [the reader has] for it.I'll be reading more of his books.
Throughout reading this confusing set of novels, I wondered what I might say.
We refer of course to the disorientation, the search for identity.
But there are so many people who have said it all and much better than what I could do.
So that was my first contact with Auster and despite the confusing world, the three short stories take you in their own worlds.
Whatever the character crosses the different names.
Thriller without investigation, story with characters named: white, black, blue.
Stories in history.
No one can say anything, you must read this trilogy, so of course you are not allergic to some kind of absurd.
There are books where you say to yourself "it just don't get better than this," and The New York Trilogy is one of those. Trying to explain is futile -- this one you have to read for yourself. Even if you don't make it past City of Glass, you will find some of the best thought, best brain-expanding reading, and the best postmodern writing of an author who examines identity, narrative, language and who truly plays with reader expectations. But do read the entire book - it is beyond excellent. Recommended especially for Borges fans.
Me explico: narra los hechos desde una distancia tal que siempre cuenta, jamás muestra, atendiendo a la diferencia de Ezra Pound; los personajes tienen siempre motivaciones dramáticas que aparecen como justificación a sus actos (la muerte en el pasado de algún ser querido, o un viejo trauma, del que sólo tenemos conocimiento de puntillas) y aunque en muchos casos éstas son completamente inverosímiles y están tan sólo mencionadas de paso, meramente esbozadas, no prestamos atención al truco, pues estamos demasiado distraídos persiguiendo la trufa.
E, stando alle singole parti, probabilmente le quattro stelle sono generose.Ma credo si possa guardare al tutto come a un’idea di narrativa e un modo di raccontare diversi, dove i simboli e le allegorie ci portano a livelli di coscienza nuovi e differenti.Ogni storia è un labirinto di disagio e solitudine, un gioco di specchi in cui chi osserva è a sua volta spiato.
Tre gialli non gialli col finale aperto.Siamo dalle parti del metaromanzo: tutti scrivono, taccuini dovunque.
“La stanza chiusa”, forse il racconto più tradizionale, è per me il migliore del lotto.Non consigliato a chi ha bisogno di certezze.
τελος πρωτης ιστοριας και ειμαι ενθουσιασμενη..!!!!
Nessuno è in grado di comprendere il prossimo (nemmeno lo scrittore che, scrivendo, tenta di indagarlo), in quanto rimane esso stesso imperscrutabile a se stesso.I tre racconti, si comprende avanzando nella lettura, altro non sono che una storia sola, ma ad un diverso stadio di consapevolezza dell'autore (e di conseguenza del lettore che lo segue).
Black non fa altro che scrivere una storia, e sembra vivere (o avere scopo di vita) solo per il fatto che qualcuno lo osserva.
Originally published as three separate volumes - City of Glass (1985), Ghosts (1986) and The Locked Room (1986) are separate stories, though linked by events and characters.City of Glass is about Daniel Quinn, a writer of mystery novels, which he publishes under a pseudonym.
Thus begins a dreamlike story of identity and consciousness, where the borders between reality and fiction are slim, if any.Ghosts is about a private detective named Blue, who's tailing a character named Black, though who really might be watching who is never revealed.
When I was halfway through "Ghosts" (part II) I would have completely agreed with that sentiment, since I thought "City of Glass" was kind of a drag with some highlights, and "Ghosts" initially did everything in its power to make me want to set the book on fire and drop it into a chasm.But whoever was saying that either did quit halfway through, or is just plain wrong.
However, I honestly don't think Auster needed to write it that way, and while you can argue that the third part's power is cumulative, that you've got to pound through the first two wondering whether you were being mind-fucked or just pointlessly bored in order to win the prize at the end, I absolutely do not agree.
E alla fine si scoprirà che sta scrivendo proprio il libro stesso, “Fantasmi”.Nel terzo romanzo, “La stanza chiusa”, il protagonista si immerge nella vita del proprio migliore amico, interpretandolo, fingendosi lui, sposandone la vedova, adottandone il figlio e scrivendo addirittura libri usando il suo nome.Tre romanzi complessi, non facili da seguire e che lasciano un senso di angoscia e confusione forte.
E alla fine era solo questo che chiedeva alle cose: di non essere in nessun luogo.
Se avessi dato il voto quando ho letto il libro sarebbero state sicuramente cinque stelle. Ora, a distanza di tanti anni, le stelle sono solo quattro perché non credo che riuscirei a rileggerlo. Temo che sia datato. Ma spero di sbagliarmi. Sono stato un gran fan di Auster. Poi, ho cominciato a trovarlo ripetitivo, e l'ho abbandonato. Fa molto intellettuale newyorkese, molto fico, quello che in effetti è. Ma io non lo leggo più.
Video reviewThe Trilogy of Detective Novels That Are Really About Semiotics (New York, Not So Much)
