https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1527003.Gentian_Hill
I've read two other works by Goudge: The Rosemary Tree and the Scent of Water.
I loved the Rosemary Tree, liked the Scent of Water, and am perplexed about Gentian Hill.Should I rate it four or five stars?
The pages of Gentian Hill are loaded with wonderful descriptions.5) As in her other works, Goudge manages to weave religious and spiritual themes into a good story, and she does this without coming across as too sappy or stilted.
I found this quality charming in the two other books I've read by Goudge.
Not as strong as The Dean's Watch or The Scent of Water.
I always enjoy Elizabeth Goudge's gift for language and description and this historical novel was no exception.
Set during the Napoleonic Wars it is rich with atmosphere and a sense of the loss that the French community in exile felt after the Revolution.
What worked less well for me was the romance, which involves a young man who falls in love with a child and then waits patiently for her to grow up.
Still, for me, anything by Elizabeth Goudge is worth reading at least once.Content rating G except for the weirdness of the romance.
Gentian Hill is about home, beauty, innocence, love, loyalty, and the God who holds them all.
The pure goodness of the main character, a 10 year old girl named Stella, held me captive, but nearly every character holds treasure to be unearthed.
On finishing the novel, I felt that I didn't love the ending, but I think I really just regretted that the story had come to an end.
(GH is out of print, but I loved it so much that I purchased a hard-back copy when I was done, so if any of my goodreads friends would like to have my falling-apart, highlighted copy, let me know)
Set in England in late 18th to early 19th century, this novel gave me a longing to find out more about Admiral Nelson and the naval battles of the Napoleonic Wars.The story is multi-layered, combining two major characters; Stella, an orphaned farm girl, and Zachary, a naval deserter, and follows their lives as they make friends (among others), with a French ex-patriot, (persecuted during the French revolution for his nobility), and a village doctor (a hero in his own right.) The author creatively weaves in Zachary's personal story with that of Admiral Nelson's naval strategy, while Zachary fights the demons of war and fear, faithfulness to duty and love of country.
English history, legends, sweet romance, mystery, deeply flawed, yet lovely characters, a quiet stone chapel, a lovely working farm, and a gorgeous, idyllic coastal English village make for another charming, beautiful, deeply moving story.
She is so good at transporting you to the place and gently leading you into, through, and with the characters to profound spiritual truths.
I love Goudge's quirks and weird, magical bits for the most part though because the depth of everything all tied together creates such a sense of being right THERE.
Doctor Crane is my absolutely favorite character in this book!
Old Sol is lovely too...and the main star of the book Stella Sprigg is so interesting too...sigh.
This book was a labor of love.
It says it's only 315 pages, but I read it on my kindle and it felt much longer.
It was fairly loveable, though overly descriptive for my taste.
The first half of the book was stable but then it got confusing.
Different perspectives, stories within stories but not properly prefaced, etc.
It seemed like the author just wanted too much from it.
Too many story lines, too much wrapping up every one of them with a pretty bow.
I liked it ok nonetheless and I would give another of this author's books a try.
This is my third time through with this book, which I first ran across by accident when I was 10 or 11.
Goudge never really tells us why the connection between Stella and Zachary is so instant and so deep and unwavering, just that it happens and nothing can kill it.
But religion in Goudge's books does not swamp the story, nor are the most religious characters the most self-righteous--usually the opposite.
I can relish the spirituality in her books without being surfeited with religion.
This is a historical novel, set in Devon, based around a legend which is told in the book.
The main character is a ten-year-old girl called Stella, who lives at a farmhouse but knows she is 'different' from the people she calls mother and father.
Stells learns something about her past, and she meets two people who change her life: a boy a few years older than herself who has deserted the Navy, and a rather remote Catholic priest.
There are battles to be fought - both physical (the book is set in the time of Napoleon and Nelson) and psychological, as characters struggle to overcome their internal fears.
I know this concept had been presented to me before, but it seemed to shine out particularly in this passage and I am grateful to it for bringing me a greater depth of understanding into the mystery of Jesus as not only God but also Human.
Enjoyable, but felt overly wordy and drawn out, even for a Goudge.
(And I usually love her wordiness!)Lots of beautiful imagery and reconciliation, but also lots of bits about the war which wasn't quite as interesting to me, alas.
Anyways, this one wasn't particularly inspiring, but I'm glad I read it and will be looking forward to the next one!
A sweet, old fashined book. I enjoy the background descriptions that are incidental to the story line: the descriptions of the farm and a simple, disciplined hard-working lifestyle are so beautiful. I love how the farm is what we now describe as biosustainable permaculturing, having sheep, bees, croplands mulched by shell-sands from the seashore, a patient oxen team, dogs who are part of the family.That is totally not what the book was about, but it was my favorite part.
Where has Elizabeth Goudge been all my life? I just love her writing, such depth and beauty. I always feel enriched after I finish one of her books. Actually, I probably would not have appreciated her when I was younger so I'm thankful that I finally discovered her in my 30s.
He doesn't like the sea, but feels he can put up with it until Boney is defeated, after which he will return to the farm and work with the sheep.Of course Stella's parentage has to come out and she is revealed as the daughter of French emigres who fled France during the Terror.The whole book is filled with true stories from the locale as well as additions Goudge has introduced.

This lovely story emphasizes the healing nature of "location stability" (my term to describe this), community and Christian faith.
Set in the time of the Napoleonic wars, it is a sweet story into why some men fought against France....
to protect the England they so loved and wanted to preserve.
The author has a trend in her writings regarding the mysterious orphan, the healing location of home, the value of hard work fighting against evil, and the rewards of forgiveness and love as a tonic against bitterness and anger.
See "The Little White Horse", "A City of Bells", and the Eliots of Damerosehay series, among others.
Sweeping romantic love between two young people from England.
He goes off to win in the wars with Napoleon.
Read the book.
There is no way a littl review will fully tell their story without revealing too much!
However, since it is a book by Elizabeth Goudge, know that it's magically romantic, sweet, tender and to read it will take you back to when you believed two people could love like that!
Perhaps sentimental today, maybe even a bit naive, but nonethless, I'm sure it's as good of a read now, as it was back in the late sixties when I first read it.
This was a slow read full of lovely language. It was my first Elizabeth Goudge, and I really enjoyed her writing. The interwoven elements of old English superstition, Scripture, and deep biblical thoughts was a surprise. I look forward to reading more of her. She's very quotable.

Elizabeth Goudge is just one of my favorite writers for her beautiful descriptions of home and farm life and her sharp moral sense combined with a deep mercy and realism. This story, of children who fall in love and go on to complete an age-old circle that brings healing to the people around them, is reminiscent of The Little White Horse. Mix together a little magic, a little romance, a little history, a little faith - it's a great cozy read.
One of the beauties of reading anything by Elizabeth Goudge is that one has to slow down and just enjoy the process.
It isn't my favorite but I loved it anyway.Stella is a young girl, living in Devon, England.
Stella grows into a thoughtful, considerate confidante of several older people.
One of the things I love about this novel is the interaction between ages, the respect each has for the gifts of the other.
Stella and Zachery will eventually be reunited because of their fidelity to each other and the love and concern of those around them.If you decide to read this book, take your time.
Bonaparte is a very real threat.And then she meets Zachary Moon.
Zachary has his own demons, and he is separated from Stella, but life has a way of bringing them together again, but not in the way you might have expected.Beautiful and many-layered, this is a book to savour and to wallow in the vividly painted scenes of yesteryear, when life was harsh and real, but the people were the same as always, some were thinkers, some do-ers and all of them in need of someone else to help them through this life.
This has never been a favorite Elizabeth Goudge for me and not on my re-read list, but I picked it up casually the other day and found it spell-binding.
Of course her prose is lovely and her children and animals are masterful-they always are.
The whole point of this book is that there are no coincidences in life, that everything is connected, that no matter what happens there is always redemption.
It's a powerful, gorgeous (oh, those flowers, trees, landscapes!) novel, and, unlike Great Expectations where I thought Dickens ruined his book by throwing in coincidence after coincidence, this one is perfect and is the heart of the story.
Simply lovely.
This felt like a fairy tale for grownups!
I loved it.
I loved not only the basic storyline but also the spiritual thoughts included within it.
And I loved the line she had about how God holds the whole universe in His hand as one would hold a little brown hazelnut!
I believe this is an allusion to a statement by Julian of Norwich in her book about the love of God...I can't remember the name of that book right now..but what a lovely thought to express how cherished and safe we are in God's hand..
Hmm, interesting book. The writing is beautiful, as is typical for Goudge, and the story fairly interesting (centered primarily around a farm in Devonshire, and the people connected therewith). It wouldn't be my favorite, though, because of the rather odd spiritual undertones. In this book, set around the turn of the 1800s (I think), Goudge is writing about an England which, though Christian, still has deep roots in fairyland, superstition and pagan thought. It's an odd blend.Re-read summer 2014. Liked it better, but it's still a little weird.
This novel, though about the universal experience of suffering and love and how to endure, is readable by very few people; having an almost nineteenth century discursiveness intolerable to the current ear. I skipped some of the side stories myself this third time of reading it. But the evocation of the beauty of nature and love makes it worthwhile.
This book ranks in my top ten. A rare treasure of joy that is sure to satisfy both the adult who's still a child at heart, and the child who's longing to grow up. However, I wouldn't read if you are the sort of person that doesn't enjoy fairytales, beautiful friendships, perilous plots, wise priests, daring youths and maidens, and happy endings.
I loved this book! since I sent the quotations via email as they appeared before me, no need to reiterate here. Tried to see what amazon.com had to offer and the one I want to read, The Rosemary Tree, is offered used starting at $87.00. she has a following.
Another book that is meant to be read slowly and savored. I do believe I am hooked on Elizabeth Goudge's writing, although I intend to pace myself.Such rich prose and fascinating characters! I think I fell in love with the Abbe and Dr. Crane both.
Historical fiction from Elizabeth Goudge again. Of all her books, some of my favorite lines and characters appear in this one. It has lots to say about the comforts and purpose of home, and the necessary difficulties of work in the world.
This is a book to be savoured. The prose and the story are rich and eloquent and each character shines. The book is full of joy and beauty and in places thought-provoking, and is worth spending the time to read.
Stella is the daughter of Father and Mother Sprigg. She meets Zachary who has deserted the navy because he hates being a sailor. Dr. Crane takes the boy in and adopts him as his own son. Stella learns that she is not the actual daughter of the Spriggs.
