https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/716329.Blue_Adept
Come on.)It loses a star for the last scene, really, in which he (spoilers ahead, but seriously, none of you will care, the book's thirty years old) defeats his enemy by implying that he's in love with her.
The only other women in the book who don't are a menopausal woman and a child.
(And the child totally harbors a crush on him for the next four books.) Psychopathic man-hater!
This totally threw me even as an eight-year-old, and as a thirty-something woman, I have no patience left for this kind of bullshit.
Following Stile further as he continues the struggles from  Split Infinity . Trying to complete a series of competitions to win his freedom in one world while trying to understand his new position and powers in the other. All while trying to avoid getting killed and working out who's trying to kill him. Phew!While it doesn't really stand alone as a book, it's a good continuation of the series and keeps the intrigue and revelations coming.
Oh, man. I'm still going to listen to book 3 just to complete the re-experience, but this one was even worse in terms of Anthony's depictions of women - especially via the main character's opinions of women and their natures/qualities/abilities/etc. I guess as a kid all of that went over my head somehow? Yikes.
Again, I read this to my kids, editing out as much of the sexist crap as possible on the fly while reading aloud. My kids enjoyed it and definitely wanted me to read the next book, which we have begun.
Not even making that up, he excuse was, he needed something, and she was available.Moving on to Book Two. Lady Blue informs Stile that she loves him, because of the magical roofie spell he cast on her.
While she is talking about the magical roofie spell, that also involved Neysa, he is reminded about how he'd "raped" Sheen in book one.
I'm pretty sure the Werewolves were included in these book just so Anthony would have an excuse to call females "bitches." Yeah, I get the joke.
Stile doesn't find out she's female until almost exactly 3/4 of the way through the book.
The saga of the sex robot continues1 March 2012 Hmm, as I glanced at some of the reviews I seemed to notice the suggestion that it really is not a stand alone book, but rather a direct continuation of book one (in the same way that the Two Towers is a direct continuation of Fellowship of the Ring) though that is hardly an issue considering the number of series out there that need to be read in order. Fortunately not all serial books are like that (such as The Dresden Files) but many are (in part
One thing I didn't mention in the previous book is the female robot that one sees on the cover.(view spoiler)[ (hide spoiler)]Yes, it is female, and yes it is naked, and yes, Stile does have sex with her.
As such, by crossing over to Phaze, it turns out that Stile, the serf, becomes one of the planets rulers.
However, I don't really understand why he wouldn't stay since back on Proton he is little more than a serf, while on Phaze, he is one of the ruling elite.
It is a little difficult to understand any of the reasoning behind it, particularly since it has been quite a while since I actually read this book.
So.I’m continuing on my trek through pulp fantasy I read as a kid – although I’m really not sure if I actually read these 3 books or not, I know I read books 4-7 of the series (I still owned them when I bought (or re-bought) these three).
The lady in red with the demon jumping out of an amulet is actually pretty accurate though.The story itself suffered from some of the same technical flaws as the previous volume – things that are either just obvious to me now because of the quantity of books I’ve read since then, or because I’m older and pickier.
Middle book of a trilogy is supposed to be the weakest.To some extent that is true as the protagonis
3.5 stars really.One of the things I've enjoyed about Piers Anthony is his ability to tell a complete story in each book of a series.
So, when the book ended without the Game actually being played it felt incomplete.
Instead, simultaneous with the Game Stile identifies who killed the predecessor Blue Adept and the book ends with the conclusion of that confrontation (which is particularly annoying since it happens very near the end of the game).
Along the way Stile discovers that his antagonist was manipulated into killing the prior Blue Adept so that mystery isn't solved either.Still, for a book that fails to tell a complete story it is well written with interesting characters and setting.
He’s self-confident (of course) and self-assured (obviously), and the few times that he’s not the best at what he does, he’s at least second-best (clearly), so it’s somewhat understandable, but he lacks empathy toward anyone else who doesn’t meet his own standards (always).So, I re-read the series, and plan to finish off the Battle Circle series (I already picked up the rest of the books in the series), but I think after these, I’ll be done with Piers Anthony for good.
This is the second in the Apprentice Adept series continuing Stile's adventures as a lowly serf in the science-based Proton, and an exalted Adept in the magic based Phase.
He continues to explore both worlds and Anthony paints a beautiful picture of the world of Phase, making you feel it's the better place to live.Stile is still trying to win the game, working through one challenge at a time and getting closer to the top with every win, but he's also working to track down the murderer of his other self, the person who still wants to kill him as well.
Well, I liked this; but not as much as the 1st one. Stile is still slipping between Proton and Phaze searching for his enemy. He's still being helped by Neysa the Unicorn, Sheen the android and Lady Blue. He's still playing the Game in Proton. He's doing well, with the help of his friends. So, I'm not sure why I didn't like this one as much as the first. However, I will still move on to the next book.
Better than book 1. Kept me on the edge of my seat. Loved the books as a kid and still do. They are fun. I don't understand the bashers. These are fantasy books. You suspend belief when you read books like this.
2nd book more of the same. We get to see a lot more of the other Adepts and the world of Phaze but they're all fairly shallow. Even more major misogyny, to the point where the main villain is defeated by her own unhinged misandry. Because "bitches be crazy" is apparently the best motivation.
It’s interesting to see stile becoming two people almost, and books that blend science and magic don’t often do so in this way. Not a series to leap and shout about but with solid, steady messages going forward.
The second book of the series, an excellent marriage of fantasy and science fiction. Anthony is a master of both genres and this is a combination that proves he can weave the two as expertly as he does individually.
Great author This is a good read. An old favorite of mine.Excellent trilogy.On to the next one to finish the series.
I enjoyed Blue Adept and Juxtaposition (Book 3) My favs of the series!
An enjoyable read after having read the first book. Though you will need to read the third in the series as this one does kind of finishes in an unfinished way.
Piers Anthony is a consummate author.The storylines, whimsical and dramatic alike, will propel you from front to back cover at the speed of a good storyteller.
Fun book. Got tired of all the descriptions of the different games. Obviously unrealistic. Nobody can be expert at that many games no matter how many years they train.
So I read this book second, after having read #6. It works, but is a little like having dessert first, then the soup, having skipped the appetizer.
Not as good as the first installment but did an interesting job at expanding the universe.
Sheen, the female robot designed specifically to be Stile’s ideal women (it was creepy when Warren and Spike did it on Buffy, it’s creepy here), has a plot that could have been horrendous, but is redeemed somewhat by how it is resolved not by Stile, but by Lady Blue.Lady Blue was probably my favourite character.
Both of these hinder him, but he learns to deal with (and sometimes take advantage) of both.The contrast between Proton and Phaze is another important part of the novel.
This is the second book in the series, and I'm really enjoying the characters - Stile, Sheen, and Nayla the unicorn, and their adventures in Proton and Phase. Lots of action and excitement. had to start reading the third book right away!
Looking at it now, I can't imagine actually finishing this book, but not only did I, I read the entire trilogy of which it is a part, in a single volume, over the course of a few weeks in Summer.
And I did learn from reading Piers Anthony.
It wouldn't surprise me if the second word in this paragraph had been one of them.This particular trilogy was called "Apprentice Adept" and it involves a fellow who finds a gate between two worlds - one highly scientifically advanced, and the other steeped in magic and dragons.
I made the mistake of coming back to read this book after reading the author's autobiography "Bio of an Ogre".
When you realise how much the author is projecting, the whole thing invites a lot of cringing.
The main crux of the book (and a lot of his other books) is about unappreciated and unsung heroes that finally get the glory they deserve and all the women clamoring after them to boot - which makes it all a bit of literary self-satsifying (I'll avoid the "M" word).
The worst part of it all is the author's view of women, which is evident on every second page.
I have loved the main character of Stile for decades.
I first read this series many years ago and it has remained one of my favorites.
As for Piers Anthony, he was my favorite author for a decade or so until the Xanth books became more and more silly and young reader oriented.
I like that Stile became an Adept and that he has magical powers in Phaze that are musical-based.
I generally like to read a few other books between ones in a series, but I just couldn't help myself.
The Blue Adept is an excellent book that I just couldn't put down.
I read this book back when it came out in 1981.
And I picked it up again because it was a library book (via Overdrive) that was available now.
Anthony writes an interesting story with the two worlds of science and magic.
And the Game on the science side is really interesting too.
"That's fine," I thought, "I'll just go check out book three and keep reading." But the library only has book 2 available on Overdrive.
I love that I can check out digital books from the library, but man it would be nice if there were more titles available.
This is the second book in the Apprentice Adept series and the characters are starting to change more, and realize their perpous in life.
Piers Anthony makes you really see the love and fear in all of his characters.
I could read these books (Split Infinity, Blue Adept, and Juxtaposition) forever and ever, over and over again.
The way that Piers Anthony combineds science fiction and fantasy in his books is wonderful.
I totally recommend this book if you like fantasy and or science fiction.
You dont even need to love them, but when you read these books, Piers Anthony will amke you love these genres.
