https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/77259.O_Jerusalem
I did like the descriptions of Palestine and the nomadic life of Holmes and Russell, but King's attention seemed to be so focused on that that the mystery element totally went by the wayside.
On a side note, as a Holmes fan in general, his magical skills of deduction seem to be going away.
I don't know if King isn't up to the labyrinthine and ingenious logic plots that Conan Doyle had in spades, or if she's just not interested, but there is hardly one per book, and if there is, all the deductions are unexplained.
What I'm beginning to learn about this series is that, while King has based these books on Sherlock Holmes, the series itself is in Mary Russell's voice and is about her.
Because we can see, through the maturing character of Mary Russell, living through one of the most tumultuous and rapidly changing eras of civilization, an era when women finally begin to break free of societal conventions and strictures that have held them back for eons, how one young woman of deep faith, strict ethics, and broad scholarship, comes to be one of the most celebrated detectives, and the life-love of the curmudgeonly Holmes.
I think the last 25 pages or so I just barely skimmed, just enough to get the point so that I wouldn't feel like I'd totally wasted my time.
This was definitely my least favorite of the Russell/Holmes series so far.
Clearly sort of an excuse for King to get all her religious knowledge across and cram everything about the Middle East into as many pages as possible.
It ended up being sort of painful to get through.
I would actually recommend skipping this one completely if you're interested in the series.
It was in these relatively good high spirits that I plunged myself into the fifth book, O Jerusalem.This novel, unlike the last few, is a story told out of chronology with the rest, detailing Holmes and Russell's adventure in Palestine, mentioned in The Beekeeper's Apprentice.
On the run from dangerous bomb threats in London, Russell and Holmes have made their way to Palestine, where they find themselves in the care of two Bedouins, Ali and Mahmoud Hazr, who are also agents in the service of the Crown.
This was a bit difficult to get into initially, because the setting - both time and place - are pretty foreign to me.
Russell helped me out in her narrative, being specific about the rules she was and was not following and why, so it made a lot more sense going forward.That being said, this part of the series was not as satisfying a read.
Russell's difficulty in focusing on the mystery, rather than all the historical bits around her (true to character as it may be), made it difficult for me to focus on the mystery as well.
O Jerusalem takes us back in time to the first book when Mary Russell and Sherlock Holmes had to flee England because of the danger they were in.
That doesn’t mean that the book isn’t good.
Now it’s a good book for me, and I wouldn’t mind re-read, but I was a bit disappointed when I read it the first time.
It was quite a lot of years since I read it the first time so it’s hard to know exactly why.
The case was probably just not as engrossing as the previous books cases.
Excellent. Once again Laurie King creates the sense of "being there". In this case, "there" is Palestine in 1919. Not only does she seem to get the history right, but also the geography, the sociology and the feel and smell of the Middle east.Another good tale, well told.
Fifth in order of publication in the Mary Russell/Sherlock Holmes series, the story line actually fits into the latter part of the debut novel in the series, The Beekeeper s Apprentice.[return][return]Holmes and the 19 year old Russell have fled for their lives from England to British-occupied Palestine, where in addition to buying time in order to deal with a lethal criminal genius, Holmes and Russell will also look into a little matter for Sherlock s brother, Mycroft, who holds a powerful but shadowy post for the British Empire in what would later be called Intelligence.
In the middle of "The Beekeeper’s Apprentice" Russell and Holmes leave England for a bit to get a breather from the relentless pursuit of there cunning opponent and agree to do a favor for Mycroft during their travels. This launches them into the world of international intrigue and the hands of the Hazr ‘brothers’. Two hard edged, unaccommodating ‘allies’?Then there’s the walk with Russell and Holms on the path of the Good Samaritan, amazing!
Mary puts up with a lot of men and Holmes is kind of an ass to her through most of the book. This dampened my enjoyment a lot... probably just my mood. But also the plot of this book was too thin. It needed a more focused plot and less minute description of every possible action and detail.I do really like Mary, though and the style in which her narrative is told in all the books I've read so far. That was the saving grace of O Jerusalem. But ultimately I was miffed by the characters and the plot.
I find this to be the best fit after reading The Beekeepers Apprentice. The three books between this one and the first of the series are very good but O Jerusalem describes the journey that Mary Russell and Holmes made in the Beekeepers Apprentice. I really loved the lush descriptions of the land and for those who enjoy reading about adventure this aspect was wonderfully well done.
Fun, fresh entry transplanting the typically British Holmes stories to the Middle East. A pleasant shift from the previous entry, The Moor, which felt quite a bit slower-paced, or perhaps simply of a different, less appealing form of exoticism. Great cast, with some rather James Bond dashing about and intrigue.
Of course, Holmes could have spent these last 30 years regularly polishing his brilliant Arabic, but somehow I couldn't believe in this either.Marry Russel, who is known for her "ear for languages", displayed even more impressive linguistic talents.
Just 10 days on a ship with a textbook of Arabic and Holmes's tutoring, then a couple of weeks of language immersion in Palestine plus more tutoring from Holmes, and lo and behold -- she too is almost fluent, her comprehension is excellent, and although she occasionally resides to feigning dumbness and speech defects, she is not particularly consistent in this maneuver.
Even compared to the last few books I've read in this series, the mystery was very tight and didn't feel random at all.
They're always fun since I enjoy King's characterization of Holmes and any other character we come across.However, as the series goes on, I find myself getting annoyed by Mary Russell herself.
Every character, in my opinion, can come across as a "Mary-Sue".
The one good thing about this series is that memory of past books/cases don't come into play.
I'd feel pretty comfortable jumping around in this series if it came down to it.So, overall, I really enjoyed this book.
This story is more a typical mystery/adventure than the previous books, being a very linear tale of their time in Palestine tracking down a possible spy.
There were no long digressions about theology, women's rights, or any of the other things the previous books had.
I recently watched an IMAX movie of Jerusalem and the surrounding area, and reading this made me feel like I was watching the movie again.
I love a book that can take me someplace I've never been yet make me feel I was there.
BTW- I listened to the first two books on audio and enjoyed them.
I wondered for a long time if I would ever come back to the Mary Russell series, they're a visual pleasure to read and the prose (if somewhat of a 1920's kickback with the ridiculousness of the run-on sentences) makes me want to roll around with contemplation and maybe go back for a second read.
It's a nice way to bring back some of the tension between the pair which to be honest was getting a little stale with their current married status.
Interesting to read but the novel concentrated a lot on the surrounds of Jerusalem than the mystery on hand, lovely to read but I struggled with the pacing.
In the Sherlock Holmes-Mary Russel series, although it takes place in an earlier time period than the last one--1918.
Sherlock and Mary are forced to flee England and choose British-occupied Palestine as their escape.
Their trip coincides with a series of unsolved murders which exacerbates tensions between the Jewish, Muslim, and Christian populations in the city.
Unlike the previous four books in this series, there was very little detective work or character development in this novel.
I had a difficult time even getting through the book as it seemed like one long trip through an underground tunnel.
No witty dialogue or clever detective work, just pure drudgery.
Great fun. I also learned a lot about Israel and WWI. King does a fine job of recreating Holmes, and Russell is a great foil for Sherlock.
Although this book in Laurie King’s Mary Russell series is the fifth one published, it is actually the second chronologically. During The Beekeeper’s Apprentice Holmes and Russell retreat to Palestine to distance themselves from the antagonist and to have time to plan how the villain will be caught. Since Mary Russell alludes to the fact that their adventures in Palestine was instrumental in Holmes now considering Russell as a partner rather than an apprentice, I decided that I would read this b
Although this book in Laurie King’s Mary Russell series is the fifth one published, it is actually the second chronologically.
During The Beekeeper’s Apprentice¸ Holmes and Russell retreat to Palestine to distance themselves from the antagonist and to have time to plan how the villain will be caught.
Since Mary Russell alludes to the fact that their adventures in Palestine was instrumental in Holmes now considering Russell as a partner rather than an apprentice, I decided that I would read this book next.Until WW1, Palestine was part of the Ottoman Empire.
Additionally, it was good to see why Russell was elevated to partner from Holmes’ student.
It's a little out of sequence with the book before, but Laurie King writes so deliciously that it really doesn't matter where you follow Mary Russell and Sherlock Holmes as they help to solve mysteries. It's a nice change to go into the country where Mary has her educational training so we get to see some of the depths of her passions play out in what must be a real treasure house for her. Fast paced and a good change from the expected. Such a great series.
This is my favorite of the series so far, loved the intro into a culture I know so little about. Also enjoyed seeing the sexual tension build between Sherlock and Russell
Mary Russell and Sherlock Holmes in Jerusalem on another adventure. I love these stories by Laurie R king!
This is the fifth novel in the Sherlock Holmes and Mary Russell series, even though the narrative takes place within the time frame of The Beekeeper's Apprentice, the first novel in the series.
Russell, Holmes and the two other central characters in this novel, Ali and Mahmoud, engage in much improbable derring-do in the course of the narrative.
Notwithstanding the fact that the narrative is far-fetched, this was an entertaining read and I look forward to the next installment in the adventures of Russell and Holmes.
The next hundred pages are a little better and get back to the novel's story but are again overly drawn out.
The final 100 pages are a bit more interesting and rescue the book from one star, but are still not very good.
The best part of the book are the last two pages--it ends adequately.
At one point, early in the novel, Holmes and Russell are on a stake out.
Holmes wishes Russel a happy birthday.
So far, this is a much better novel, and the Sherlock Holmes character retains some vestige of the persona Doyle created.
Actually, it's more like 2.5 stars, since Good Reads refuses to do that half star thing.Mary Russell has officially plunged into the deep end of Mary Sue with the (view spoiler)[perfect knife throwing abilities and skinny dipping parties with Sherlock Holmes.
(hide spoiler)] That particular bit from A Monstrous Regiment of Women bothered me when I first read the novel, long before Sherlock was even on the air.King's writing isn't terrible, it's just not Sherlock Holmes.
Since I'm reading these books in order, I remember Mary Russell telling readers that she and Holmes had spent an extended period of time in Palestine, and O Jerusalem fills in the details.
This fifth book in the series did a lot more than advance the story of Mary Russell and Sherlock Holmes.
O Jerusalem is filled with what I love so much about this series: marvelous characterizations, an intriguing mystery to solve, a wonderful dry wit, and a setting that I can really sink my teeth into.
I certainly didn't figure out who he was until the denoument, at any rate, and normally I know "whodunit" by the middle of a book at the latest.One thing that I am enjoying in this series is the fact that Ms. King really did her Holmes research.
She used his name in the previous book, and actually had one of the characters be an ancestor of William S.
She knew the name of the first actor (hand selected by Conan Doyle in THIS reality) selected to play Holmes on stage, and there are other interesting little nuggets of gold like this scattered through her stories for us die hard Holmes worshippers to mine.
But this book convinced me that I eventually don't like books in a series without an ongoing plot arc or strong character development.
What I liked about The Beekeeper's Apprentice was the developing relationship and respect, sometimes the teasing banter, sometimes the serious intellectual meeting of minds, between Sherlock Holmes and Mary Russell.
By this point in the series, King doesn't see much need to draw out the subtleties of their relationship because she has new characters and situations to deal with.
So I feel like my apathy towards this book says more about my weariness with following the thread of this type of series, not a fundamental flaw in the novel.
4.5, really, and very close to rounding it up to five, but in the end I think it's a smidgen closer to the Goodreads rating of "I really liked it" than to "it was amazing".Anyway, I really did enjoy this much more fleshed-out return to the Palestine & Jerusalem visit barely touched on in the very first book in this series, both because it was an excellent mixture of adventure and mystery, and because I loved getting another glimpse of Holmes and Russell in their pre-married state.
I've enjoyed the more sedate pace of a few of the previous books, but this more action-filled tale was a wonderful change that, I think, fits well into this point of the series.
O Jerusalem is the first Mary Russell/Sherlock Holmes novel I have read.
Mary Russell is a wonderful character, full of life, intelligence and courage.
All the characters in the book are strong and well developed.
It is less of a suspense mystery during the first half of the book and more of a series of adventures that occur between four unlikely companions; Russell, Sherlock Holmes,and brothers Mahmoud and Ali. The later half of the book gains momentum and the writing becomes more urgent and taut with the conclusion being exciting.
I'm looking forward to reading the whole series.
