https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/158944.The_Fannie_Farmer_Cookbook
I love this cookbook! It is my very favorite! All the recipes are simple and if you like good old fashioned homemade food that is easy to make and doesn't cost a lot, this is for you. This book will teach you how to cook. The ingredients are basic and there are many recipes for simple inexpensive dishes. A must for people on a budget who want to learn to cook from scratch. The date is set for today but I have had this book for 5 years and I still use it all the time.
My mother's favourite cookbook, a thick hardcover, the source of waffle batter, baking powder biscuits and the best dumplings for a beef stew, I remember learning how to use our cast iron waffle maker in the 1960’s with Fanny Farmer's directions.
THAT cookbook was left with my father after my mother's death in 1980, after I hastily gathered vintage memories of my mom, the other cooking bibles of a life, so that her Pineapple Upsidedown Cake and Shortbread cookies would belong to my own family as part of their history too.
The deal was, I told my father, don't under any circumstances throw that FANNY FARMER COOKBOOK out.
I asked you to keep The Fanny Farmer Cookbook for me.
The Fannie Farmer cookbook by Marion CunninhgamAlways trying to improve on our healthy eating habits so thought I'd listen to this book on tape about the Fannie Farmer cookbook.So much information about measuring and how different ingredients react to liquid, heat, etc Also entertaining ideas and even beverages are discussed.More than 30 hours to listen to the whole book. So much information, treasured the vegetable section and how to cook them differently.I received this book from National Library Service for my BARD (Braille Audio Reading Device).
I received this cookbook as a wedding gift in 1979. The marriage didn't last, but the cookbook has remained my closest kitchen ally. Recipes are altered with every publication, and so although the cover has fallen from it and the binding is failing, I put a big rubber band around it when not in use. I have a lot of cookbooks, but this is the one I reach for still.
What a fabulous reference cookbook! This would be a great gift for a new home.
It is comprehensive enough that I cross-reference all recipes against it.
My great-grandmother used this book, and she was an amazing cook, so I trust it for pretty much all basic recipes.
I must note, if you are vegetarian-leaning, it is worth it to pick up the latest edition as over the years many recipes have been added that do not require meat.
But if you are vegan, you will need to make the substitutions on your own as many recipes have dairy.
I cook vegan a lot though and have had no problem making subs with the recipes herein.
Fanny is a good staple, especially for someone rather new to the kitchen (not too new, you have to at least know the basics as there are no pictures and few drawings). If you only owned one cookbook, this would be a decent choice as it contains all the major categories. However, if you love food and you love to cook, you will outgrow Fanny.Drawback: My edition doesn't have any nutritional information, which dates any cookbook.
Marion Cunningham writes cookbooks the way I would: informative, but dull; all head and no heart.The recipes are reliable and simple, but uninspiring and unspectacular.I'd say skip this one, and get  How to Cook Everything by Mark Bittman. For some historical perspective and to see why Fannie Farmer herself was so important to cookbook authors everywhere, you should also have a look at  1896 Boston Cooking-School Cookbook.
I read my mom's 1960 (?) copy of Fannie Farmer over Xmas break from front to back - as if it were a novel. All the really neat parts of that edition are missing from the newer editions. Bummer. I would have liked to see a trend of old fashioned coffee made with eggshells and yolk; or cookies made with chicken fat.
This is really a hands-down best "go to" guide for cooking really anything you can think of. It gives the basics as well as more complex recipes. I find myself reaching for this again and again. It would make a wonderful gift for a newly married couple or any person starting out in the kitchen.
Although the copy I have is older, printed in the early '80s, this is pretty much the gold standard of basic cookbooks. I always refer back to it for things, and this is the first time I really sat down and read it all the way through.
This is the ultimate cookbook. Everyone should have this as a staple in their kitchen. If you are ever in question on how to go about cooking something, you have a pretty good chance of finding the answer in the Fannie Farmer Cookbook.
Haven't been reading much, but have been baking some treats from this great book my mother in law gave me years ago! I recommend the any fruit crisp! We had one last night with strawberries and apples. Yum
I have always been a fan of the Fannie Farmer cookbook. This is my go-to basic cookbook for whenever I need to read up on how to do something or at what temperature something should cook at.I find this easy to follow and enjoy the approach taken in describing dishes.
This is a great all purpose cookbook with wonderful recipes. Although I have many, many cookbooks, Fanny Farmer, the Joy of Cooking and The Best Skillet Recipes, a gift from a dear friend, are the three that I use 95% of the time and contain the vast majority of my family's favorite recipes.
This is a good cookbook for vegan baking (believe it or not!) There are many recipes for things that use only one egg (which is easy to substitute) and some which call for no dairy at all. Good for pie crust, cobbler and other traditional baked goods.
I use this even more often than The Joy of Cooking for reference.
My fiance's paternal grandmother gave me this little treasure! I have some of my family's recipes that I love, but this book is now my go to for everything that isn't in my own collection.
This is the best basic cookbook in America, hands down. It is filled with all the classic dishes you could ever imagine, as well as some great old forgotten recipes.
Three cheers for the perfect cookbook! Really. Whether you know nothing or everything about preparing food this book will come in handy. Basic techniques, delicious recipes, and Cunningham's updates are stellar. Awesome food is possible.
"To my darling daughter Teresa on her 22nd birthday. May you have many happy years and great meals. May 26/95 Mom"It's an amazing cookbook, too.more later
I really want to read this book but it does not let me read it
My go to cookbook for more than 40 years
My go-to cookbook for all the basics.
It feels so good to have a cookbook I can rely upon to simply work whenever I try to make something.As for my mother's tattered '70's edition, she did buy herself a new copy at the same time.
I simply remind her that, if you find a good reference you will be opening a lot, buy a hardcover; the expense is worth it.EDIT: Having read other people's reviews, I must concede that the lack of pictures can be troublesome for some beginner cooks and the recipes are mostly basics - this is not a foodie cookbook (I have others for that).
This is my go-to cookbook for just about everything.
So after a while I figured out that the illusive Boston Cooking School Cookbook of my mother's shelf is also the famed Fannie Farmer cookbook and I could be super efficient in my cookbookery.
I found an awesome copy from 1943 in a used bookstore and it came with handwritten recipe cards for disgusting 60's food tucked in between the pages.
Altogether awesome.Everyone should have a Fannie Farmer Cookbook because it tells you how to cook pretty much anything.
There are no pictures because Fannie has no time for pictures unless it's a diagram of how to truss a chicken or fold a danish.
I very rarely use cookbooks, but I figured it couldn't hurt to take it.
To look up how long to bake a sweet potato for Natalie.
I still needed to call my mother though to ask if wrapping it in foil would change the cook time.
I will say that I was impressed that it had directions for cooking a sweet potato.
My Better Homes and Gardens cookbook focuses on more fancy recipes.
That usually means its not useful for us since I am allergic to the two most popular ingredients: Eggs and flour.
My paternal grandparents gave me an inscribed copy of this when I was a teen, and it was one of the building blocks of my cooking knowledge.
Actually, my grandfather's wife (a step-grandmother I disliked) was more of a Julia Child fan and did most of their cooking.
But my grandfather bought this book, and said his mother had the original Boston version.
My copy was lost - stolen, really.
She was crazy - but I may still one day track her down, invade her kitchen and find that cookbook, with my grandfather's inscription inside the cover.
While I learned a lot from Julia Child and company, Fannie Farmer was my right hand kitchen Bible and I’ve passed that along to both my girls who also have “cookbook-itis” to some extent.
The younger daughter at age seven lounged at table or in armchair with this book trolling for dishes for her birthday dinner and put together a menu which has been her standard pick forever since – chicken divan as entrée, angel food cake with peach melba served alongside as the finishing touch.
Skip the frosting and decorations and candles please –- just give her plain angelfood with peach melba.
You gotta love it!
