https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/176284.Monster_Blood
When Evan opens the can of Monster Blood he finds in the back of a dusty old toy shop, he discovers more than just a pile of gelatinous green goo.
There are a few too many cheap tricks employed in Monster Blood for it to compete with its predecessors.
There's this gem: He cried out as something leaped out at him"Help!
Please - help!" Everything went black.
"Help!
I can't see!" Evan screamed.
Not to mention this old trick: His screams woke up him.This time he really woke up.
And realized that, the first time, he had only dreamed that he was awake.
12 year old dogs just DO NOT jump around and yip all over the place and run laps around the owner who has only been gone twenty-fucking-minutes because they are just sooooooooo excited to see them again.
Instead, the kids have to know for sure that he ate it, because they stand there and watch the dog eat it (while pleading with him not to, which is absolutely going to work 100% of the time because dogs are absolutely human, remember!).
Because instead of treating him like a dog and training him, the idiotic characters in this book plead with him and ask him to do or not do things, or reason with him.
#3 "It's a monster blood drive!"Well visiting his aunt, Evan visits a toy store nearby and finds an old can of Monster Blood. It's fun to play with until his dog Trigger eat some of it! Evan is in for the surprise of his life when his dog begins to change and not in a good way.
The Goosebumps series started out very strong and promising with Welcome to Dead House and Stay Out of the Basement but this one was just plain stupid, I hate to say.
He buys a can of Monster Blood at a dusty old toy store and the shit Monster Blood hits the fan from there.Every other scene in the book is Evan chasing his dog, Trigger.
The ending would probably be scary to a five year old.
What was the purpose of it all?For me, reading this book was like reading a book about say, farm animals.
Man that was a fun time! I loved Evan, the creepiness slowly creeping up, monster blood growing and growing causing havoc, and the twist I didn't see coming and really enjoyed it! CW: Bullying
In fact, I owe it to R.L.Stine and  Christopher Pike for shaping my reading taste into that of an avid horror reader.The endings to these Goosebump books are often queer, sometimes there wasn't even a happy ending.
One day, Evan visited a toy shop with his new friend and bought a can labelled 'MONSTER BLOOD'.
I want to know why the creepy, mean aunt got cursed in the first place.
Monster Blood  is not the best Goosebumps book but oh well, there are still 40+ more books in this series that I get to choose from.
So sad these stories are so small...
These books are quite a lot silly and the endings can be a little frustrating at times. That being said I find myself really enjoying them, They have a tension that makes them a great ride and makes you compelled to swallow them in one sitting. This one in particular brings back the nostalgic fears from childhood which meant I enjoyed it more than I thought I would and probably should!
“Did he tell you I was a scary old witch?”“No,” Evan protested, looking at his mother.“Well, I am!” Kathryn declared, and once again burst into her deep-throated laugh.Erm. Ok.The next character introduction is Kathryn’s cat, Sarabeth.
“Evil, evil, evil.”I wonder if the cat is evil?Trigger is relegated to living outside for Evan's stay at Kathryn's.
Must be some confused lab techs.The monster blood has overflowed its coffee can, so he takes it to Andy in a 'big bucket.' She's sufficiently creeped out by it, now that it, much like this book, has taken on sucking properties.
Yeah, right, like a giant ball of monster's blood [similar to alien slime] is going to scare me and give me sleepless nights. This book was a fail for me and I found it very unbelievable and rather silly.
I will find out soon enough!This story follows a young boy named Evan who has to go live with his great aunt Kathryn because his mother is going to Atlanta for a trip (ATL haaaaay!) Who would be excited about something like that?
Well, it didn’t totally surprise me… but I bet it would have had my 8-year-old self all shook up!Things I did not like: the repetitive nature of Evan always chasing/looking for his dog, the actual monster blood itself (just growing and not really doing much of anything), and how blunt his cooky, great aunt Kathryn is!
Monster Blood (Goosebumps, #3), R.L. Stineعنوان: خون هیولا - کتاب 03 از سری دایره وحشت ( 04 انتشارات ویدا)؛ نویسنده: آر.ال. استاین؛ مترجم: ماندانا قهرمانلو؛ تهران، ویدا، 1385؛ در 136 ص؛ شابک: 9789646807501؛
Una entrega más en la línea de la serie, divertida y con su punto escalofriante. Me ha gustado bastante.
Kathryn also has a black cat named Sarabeth that she describes as 'evil.' She makes Evan keep his cocker spaniel, Trigger, outside in the yard.Evan decides to explore the neighborhood a little bit.
Well, Andy needs to buy her cousin a birthday gift, so she and Evan go to an old toy store.
Bye!But Evan and Andy know the truth - Trigger is growing rapidly because he ate the monster blood.
I liked the old woman, Kathryn - although Stine uses old age and deafness to make her Other, to make her something more than (less than?) human - I enjoyed her attitude and rather scary sense of humor.
This read-a-long promoted me to give it a shot since my library had a copy of it when I went, but I honestly don’t think I would’ve missed out on anything if I hadn’t read this.Monster Blood falls flat in several places- ranging from plot to characters to dialogue and to the conclusion.
This toy shop closes and it leaves all kinds of gaps in the plot as to how it even obtained Monster Blood in the first place from the creator.
Sadly Monster Blood’s plot wasn’t fun, but annoying.Plotastic Scale: 1Cover Thoughts: The covers for this book are fun to look at, but some are worst than others.
Радвам се на факта, че Хермес се заеха да вдъхнат нов живот на тази поредица в България. Goosebumps все пак е Гинес рекордьор с 400млн. екземпляра на 32 езика, а у нас имаше издадени само 10 от около 60-те книги и то с не голям успех. За тези, които са гледали като малки епизодите това е една вълнуваща среща с източника. Започвам тази с позитивна нагласа и си очаквам следващата, Хермес! :)P.S. И тази беше доста приятна и леко предсказуемо-непредсказуема по свой си начин.
The Monster Blood title sounded great so I decided to read it as my second Goosebumps book. A tween boy has to spend a couple of weeks with an ultra-strange, deaf grand-aunt. This book was better than Welcome to Dead House. Things moved faster, there was a good new friend, two bullies and an interesting grand-aunt. And there was some monster blood, of course. Scary but not too scary. 4 stars. Enjoy!
I love horror stories about slimy and amorphous monsters. This one is perfect - very likeable protagonist and very cool beastie for an enemy! And this comes from a hardened horror reader like me! Enjoy the full review in Bulgarian here:http://citadelata.com/%D0%BA%D1%80%D1...And buy the book!
Αν και τρίτο κατά σειρά κυκλοφορίας, το συγκεκριμένο βιβλίο είναι το δεύτερο των "Ανατριχίλων" που διάβασα. Συγκριτικά με το πρώτο, η υπόθεσή του μοιάζει αρκετά απλοϊκή, ίσως και κάπως αφελής, και σαφέστατα δεν καταφέρνει να σε τρομάξει όσο θα ήθελες, ή και όσο θα μπορούσε. Παρ' όλα ταύτα, διαβάζεται ευχάριστα, χωρίς να κρύβει ανατροπές και εκπλήξεις.
These books are so much fun to read.
i never saw that comingas they say, the mystery adds to the horror
Una entrega más divertida y con su punto escalofriante. Me ha gustado bastante.
This book passed the time, but it wasn't all that great and it was very choppy, even for middle-grade fiction.
Katherine is a formidable character, Evan is a scared rabbit, Andy is playful, Bullies are Bullies and the Monster Blood is a disgusting menace is what I can say after reading this.
The shopkeeper tries to stop the purchase and warns them not to return the tin, if they take it home and discover it does not work.Evan takes Andy back to Kathryn's house, so they can investigate the tin of Monster Blood.
Evan and Andy try to run after it, but they do not get very far before Trigger turns into a horrible monster.
Capitoli finali a parte, ho trovato il resto del libro un po' noioso, senza contare che leggere il nome SANGUE DI MOSTRO sempre in maiuscolo mi ha irritata un pochino. Insomma, Sangue di Mostro non andava bene?E comunque, che cavolo di nome è Sarabeth?!Va be', almeno i protagonisti mi sono piaciuti e devo ammetterli che un po' li shippavo, anche se sono ancora piccoli.Nel complesso direi che si merita la sufficienza.
When you are a prolific author some of the stuff you churn out on schedule just comes out half undone. Maybe Stine had a deadline and a wicked case of writer’s block. He probably pulled an all-nighter to just put something on paper and to appease the hungry editors (hey, that’s not a bad Goosebumps concept), and Monster Blood was born. Just okay, if forgettable tale with very little spookiness. Kids like gross, oozing blobs of goo, I guess, so it might just fly by a certain audience.
Monster Blood  was my very first Goosebumps book.
Recently, as I've been collecting and re-reading the Goosebumps book, I've noticed that nobody really likes this book, and mostly because of Evan, though I think Evan is  great.
But I'm going to do a bullet-point list for why I think this book is actually the best Goosebumps book, because let's be real it totally is.
This is actually most often cited as why people don't like this book/series, because Evan is a whiny little jerk.
But let's be real here, he's actually got some sort of character.
Monster Blood, after reading it again, is really just an evil flubber.
How boring is this Evan kid if all he does in this entire book is walk his dog (Who GASP!
Also do you know how hard it was for me to not sit and read this book and laugh while thinking about the fact that it is essentially an evil flubber?
The whole premise of an evil flubber is more hysterical than it was terrifying.
Maybe have the evil flubber/monster blood spew out like red blood or something.
The fact that there is 3 more Monster Blood books in the original Goosebumps series makes me sad.
You must be wondering why I gave it one star if I liked it this much.
Anyway, I created this Goodreads account long after I read this book and now that I think about the story of this book, I think it was bad, horrible even.
Also, the characters are so flat that you wonder whether you are reading about blocks of wood who have human-like faces.On reading other Goosebumps books, I realize that R.L. Stine can spin much better tales.
Well, it doesn't really matter because most teenagers really are like this.
The ending was a little too scifi for my taste, but stil good and thats what I like about these Goosebumps books the author takes something really dumb like playdo and gives it life.....not exciting at my age, but he writes the characters so well and has so many events happening that it keeps you glued to the book.
I don't judge books by their cover, but I sure do judge by their title and this book did not catch my interest at all.
I was so disinterested that I thought about skipping this one and moving on to book #4 of the series, but I'm glad I read it.
The longest I spent ever reading a book.
