https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/447095.Lord_Grizzly
To begin with, the description of this book needs to be revised, by someone who has read the book.Rereading Lord Grizzly after a lapse of thirty years, two things strike me.
He really takes us over the ground with Hugh Glass.
Second, the language deployed and relationships depicted mark the work as a period piece.
Lots of stuff that would not pass today.It's a period piece in another way in that it depicts an epic, fiercely masculine American West.In this and other tellings of the saga of Hugh Glass, it is easy to get distracted by the theme of retribution.
The hero of the novel is Hugh Glass, an early American mountain man who was hired as a scout by the Rocky Mountain Fur Company to explore the upper Missouri country.
He crawled a staggering distance in what became one of the first near mythic tales of the Great American Desert.
The book focus on Glass's thoughts and fears and determination to survive.
I read this book years ago because it I was interested in the time period when the American government was allied with the Sioux against the Pawnee and the Arikara.
I also read the foreward to Lord Grizzly and found that author Manfred Szameit had done literally years of research about Hugh Glass and his 200 mile crawl to save himself.
He even went so far as to bind up one leg so he couldn't use, and crawled around on just his hands and one leg and ate many of the insects mentioned in the book, so he could accurately describe what Glass might have physically experienced.
Is my topknot gone lad?""If it ain't Fitz and Jim, it's downside Dutton honey-fuggling the booshways."Yeah, lots of talk of topknots, and good mountain-manny exclamations like "Whaugh!" and "Ho-ah!" and "Ae," and "Hep-ah;" and Indians who go "Howgh-owgh-owgh-owgh-h!" (not sure how that last "h" is pronounced).
Whaugh!UPDATE: And did go ahead and read The Revenant - and despite its flaws, Lord Grizzly is by FAR the better of the two tellings.
Instead of actually making them sound like trappers and/or old timey "mountain men", each line spoken by Hugh Glass and his company sounds forced and "store bought", rather than natural and "a family recipe." Another analogy could be a generation X (or worse-a baby boomer) trying unsuccessfully to use modern slang, as in "Man, Richard, this bean dip is lit af!" Manfred's attempt at trapper slang only served to irritate readers.
Given how repetitive and relatively uneventful Hugh's crawl was, author Fredrick Manfred did not need to spend as long as he did describing it, unless he wanted to lose readers' attention.During the section about the crawl, the passages also get very repetitive, to the point where I thought I was re-reading parts.
I like that the author doesn't pretty it up for us, but it makes for an uncomfortable read, sometimes.The main character, Hugh Glass, is presented as an experienced and careful mountain man with extraordinary resourcefulness.
The author hints at some of the larger issues at work in the story, like the white trappers viewing the Indians as amoral for doing the same things that the white men were doing.
Interestingly, we also see Glass railing internally against the settled East where he came from, which he thinks of as ruled by harpy-like women who force men into nice clothing and stifling jobs.
But Manfred doesn't dig too deeply into these issues, so his story feels authentic.
So it was with a mix of nostalgia and intrigue that I recently picked up Manfred’s "Lord Grizzly," a National Book Award finalist in 1955 and the story of Hugh Glass, a real-life mountain man who survived a bear attack and subsequent abandonment in 1820s South Dakota –- not far from my Blue Mounds stomping ground."Lord Grizzly" invokes that long-ago land of Indians, grizzlies, mountain lions and buzzards, but Manfred recreates it to a fault.
Manfred seemed to prefer the former; for me, those daylong prowls in his Blue Mounds backyard were wilderness enough.
Giant caveat: this is full of racial slurs and stereotypes and the only way to read and review this is with a critical engagement with the way Native Americans and people of color are portrayed in books and popular culture.
A mountain man fights a grizzly bear in hand-to-hand combat, then after he's abandoned by his companions and left to die alone, he CRAWLS hundreds of miles through harsh terrain while gravely wounded, because VENGEANCE.My first encounter with this book was years ago when someone booktalked it in a library school class.
The book has been in the back of my mind since then - best Western I've read since  True Grit.
Wow. As an armchair historian of the American West/Frontier period, of course I'd heard of the long crawl of Hugh Glass, and come across it in a number of western anthology books (the slightly higher brow crowd, less prone to Louis L'Amour reprints)...
but I'd never fallen in love with anything more than the concept, the idea of the legend.Then I read Manfred's Lord Grizzly, which is an exercise in colloquialism, storytelling, and voice.
It's terse Americana, and made me want to go back to the Rocky Mountains (even though old Hugh was more of a plainsman).
This is a brilliant novel with a new edition with U of Nebraska Press. "Grizzly" was runner-up for the National Book Award in 1954 (?) and lost to "Tales of the South Pacific."I've wondered about any similarities with "The Revenent," which is based on the same story of Hugh Glass, mountain man.
I read this book in high school. They had many copies of it in the book room, but it was deemed too violent for us to read. I tracked it down again and reread it. Survival and moral quandaries... I enjoyed this thoroughly.
Hand to hand combat with a grizzly bear. Enough said.
If the Revenant is half as good as this version of the Hugh Glass story, it is a great book.
Fantastic true life story of probably the toughest man to ever live. Incredible adventure. Very recommended
Holy crap i have forgotten about this book! It's a true account of a mountain mans revenge against the men left him for dead. I'm gonna have to read this again....
Incredible. True story of a man left for dead after being mauled by a grizzly bear. He crawled for over 200 miles to track down the men that left him.
Fantastic book! Saw the movie before reading the book and I guess I shouldn't have. I had an inkling of the story but Manfred's writing brought the story vividly to life for me! The author's writing is second-to-none in terms of his descriptive quality of "place." Many times, I felt as though I was right there with 'ol Hugh. Very exciting and I couldn't wait to see what happened at the end of his journey. Not what I expected at all! 5 stars for story content and of course, historical accuracy in the 1830s.
Historical fiction of early US development in the west, one of my favorites!! Having grown up with Louis L'amour and other writers of that time, the great US West never fails to catch my imagination!
excellent reader!
Good story. Great characters. Fantastic description of environment and the zeitgeist. Ending seemed a little contrived, but within bounds of believable.
Slow moving at times with lots of description about the landscape of Indian territory. Numerous exciting happenings, and a good picture of the Wild West mindset.
adventure, excitement and a journey into the wilderness from a writer who seems to know quite a lot about the above mentioned things.

This 1954 novel is the inspiration behind the 2015 film and later book adaptation, "Revenant" starring Leonardo DiCaprio (novel by Michael Punke), all based on the 1823-24 Sioux land experiences of mountain man, Hugh Glass.
Manfred has an excellent grasp of the Sioux land west of the Mississippi, native American culture, and how trappers and hunters operated back then.
When his hunting team (only Jim & Fitz were to stay behind) leaves him for dead, Glass must utilize his survival skills to find a way back home while avoiding natives & other threats on their own hunt.
This was the first novelization of Hugh Glasses immortal feet of crawling some 200 miles out of the wilderness after being attacked and brutally mauled by a female Grizzly protecting her cubs.
What also makes this story fun to read, especially if you are going to compare it to the movie, are the additional life threatening situations that Hugh finds himself in while trying to search out Fitzgerald to deliver his brand of Mountain Man justice after he has recovered from his crawl and Grizzly mauling.
I certainly recommend this book to any fan of this period of American History or to anyone that wants to read a little deeper into Hugh Glass's story outside of what you might have seen or learned in watching "The Revenant".
I don't know if there was a way to avoid that or if that was the most accurate depiction, but I thought it lessened the overall effect.Also, descriptions and attitudes portrayed really highlight to me how wasteful our society was with the natural resources of the time.
Finally, having lived where I could see the Bridger Mountains from my backyard, thinking of Jim Bridger as a "lad" who is portrayed as young and inexperienced was surprising and against my impressions of him from what he made of himself in what would mostly be events that take place after he leaves this narrative.
His friends thought that he was dead but somehow Hugh pulled through and survived.There were some parts that I enjoyed about this book.
I liked the part when he had to crawl away from the bear.
I didn’t like a lot of the parts.
When something was serious, like when he crawled away, the author was very repetitive.
I did not like to read some parts of it.Overall, I would recommend this book to other readers.
The beginning was really boring, but later on in the story, it was pretty good.
If you can get through the beginning it is a pretty good book.
Frederick Manfred is one of the great lost American writers, and Lord Grizzly is a fine introduction to his huge body of work.
Set in the high plains during the 1820s, Lord Grizzly is based on the real-life story of a mountain man, left for dead by his companions after a near-fatal mauling by a mother grizzly, who literally crawled his way back to civilization over untold miles of wilderness prowled by hostile natives.
This is the beginning of a five-novel cycle Manfred called the Buckskin Man Tales, which covered the period from the initial white incursions, through the skirmishes with the Sioux and other Indians, and then to range wars among the settlers and their descendants.
All are great reads.
Lord Grizzly by Frederick Manfred is the story of Hugh Glass.
He was being taken care of by a couple of men left behind to help him out.
until they they left him for dead.
But Hugh would pull through and live.
The men that left them would soon get a surprise from their friend Hugh, because they thought that he would be dead.
I think that Lord Grizzly is a great book.
I think that they did a very good job of telling the story of Hugh.
It will keep your attention the whole book because you never know what will happen next or if he will survive.
Lord Grizzly is perhaps a more accurate portrayal of mountain man Hugh Glass's encounter with a grizzly bear and subsequent 200 mile "crawl" back to civilization as compared to The Revenant which is, of course, the book on which the movie by the same name is based.
It's much different than anything I usually read so I had a harder time getting into it but once I did, Manfred's historical, but fictionalized account came through.
Manfred explored the area described even getting down on his hands and knees to see what the world would have looked like from that position.
