https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/30689335-the-roanoke-girls
In the end, we either run or we die".As soon as I read that first sentence in the blurb for this book, I knew I had to have it.
They probably called my name a few times before I even heard them.Fifteen year old, Lane Roanoke is still reeling from her mother's suicide when she comes to live with her maternal grandparents at the Roanoke estate in rural Osage Flats, Kansas.
But when Lane learns the horrific secrets of the Roanoke family, she has to leave.
Allegra...the only Roanoke girl who wouldn't leave.In my opinion this was a very well written and extremely thought-provoking novel.
*5 stars* Amy Engel’s writing is as powerful as this story's subject matter is unsettling. It’s a forceful combination; one that had my churning stomach forever at odds with my growing curiosity and admiration for these tortured Roanoke Girls and their legacy of heartache.   Roanoke girls never last long around here. In the end, we either run or we die.  This story’s tone is dark and haunting, and its content downright appalling. But, if you give the plot enough time to show its face, you’ll fin
It’s a forceful combination; one that had my churning stomach forever at odds with my growing curiosity and admiration for these tortured Roanoke Girls and their legacy of heartache.
I’ll leave you with a completely *spoiler-free* portion of the book where the writing hit me the hardest.
On the nights my words cut deepest, sliced quick and deadly as scalpels, her eyes practically bulged from her face, and I was filled with a rotten, hellish joy because at least she was finally looking at me.
$1.99 TODAY ON KINDLE US 11-30-18This book is horribly sad and nasty!
Lane's mom commits suicide and she gets shipped off to live with her grandparents in a little town.
Lane has a cousin living with them as well, her name is Allegra.
It's not good to be a Roanoke girl.
The book tells the story of then and now.
It also tells the story of other Roanoke girls.
All of that doesn't matter in the end, you get the real story and it's nasty!
Even though this book is beyond messed up I still liked it.
DNF. Too many triggers in this one for me to push through. I'm sure this is a great book for the right reader, I just didn't fit that bill. I understood that sexual abuse was an aspect of the plot but wasn't aware it was the entire focus. Still wish the author all the best and am sincerely happy for those who enjoyed it. On to the next one!
But that feeling of discomfort was for all the wrong reasons.Next, and this is a first (paradox?), I had to delete two of my status updates because my jokes, my motherfucking goddamn sonuvabitching jokes, ended up being fucking spoilers.
(I'm telling you, folks, there's nothing new in this book.) One of the characters is even a motherfucking V.C. Andrews cast member.
If you're looking for a book wherein you can predict the outcome in the first 50 pages, read this motherfucker.
Then again, good friends of mine loved this book, so what do I know?
The only way I can explain and justify enjoying this book as much as I did is that this tragic story sucked me right in on page one and didn't let me up for a breath of air until the final page.
I'm not going to get into any plot detail because I don't want to risk any spoilers but mainly because I don't even know how to properly explain this awful family situation.The author, Amy Engel, blew my mind with her ability to draw me so deeply into this disturbing story.
And when Lane’s cousin goes missing, Lane is drawn back to that same ranch in Kansas, the one that those Roanoke girls can’t seem to get out of their blood, the one that they’re all bound to, even in death.Admittedly, the big secret was alluded to early on, but, honestly, that really helped this novel, because it allowed Amy Engel to take the time to peel back the layers of the family and each of the Roanoke girls, to answer the more important question of why rather than what.
Very disturbing novel!
Water seeping across wood.""Allegra is gone.
She's gone!
And both of you are sitting here like everything is normal!Like this whole place isn't fucked".
Horrifying things have taken place inside that house.
In my opinion the subject is so dark that.....[WITHOUT GIVING ANYTHING AWAY].....I would have liked to have seen MORE 'rage' and 'exploration' for the 'reason' Roanoke Girls were gone than where they went.
Its easy to become engrossed with the storytelling and characters immediately.I read it in one sitting.
Release date in March3.3 This novel - IMO- would be enhanced with discussions
(Don't read this 'head in the oven' book and look at us weird.
We were already weird to start with.)This book starts off with fifteen year old Lane after her mother's suicide.
She is greeted by her cousin Allegra, who has lived with the grandparents since birth.
She learns that Roanoke girls either run or they die.
That sounds like the perfect type of girls doesn't it?
Years later she gets a call that her cousin Allegra is missing and she must return home.
But really because I have no shame in my begging for a book like this.
This is chilling, dark and disturbing fiction from Amy Engel, set in the oppressive and overpowering heat of Osage Flats, in rural Kansas, where the Roanake girls end up running or dying.
Heeding Yates, Lane is compelled to return and search for Amy. Did she run or has something infinitely worse happened to her?
Lane's strong connection with Allegra make her determined to find out what happened to her.Amy Engel is a gifted and atmospheric writer who manages to write about upsetting and distasteful issues without dwelling on them in depth and thereby keep the reader onside.
Release Date: March 7, 2017My Review:Lane Roanoke is sent to live with her grandparents in Kansas after her mother commits suicide.
Lane has no prior connections with her grandparents because her mother left her home as pregnant teen.
The move also gives her a chance to meet with her extended family.Lane quickly assimilates to living with her grandparents and cousin Allegra at their rural estate.
Allegra is the same age as Lane and has always lived with them.
The characters are all flawed individuals but they are interesting and integral to the story.
5 holy cow stars!“Nothing around here has ever been right.”The subject matter of this book is quite obvious and unsettling which did make me feel slightly uncomfortable at times but in my opinion the author handles the content gently and with care!THE ROANOKE GIRLS by AMY ENGEL is a dark, dirty and haunting tale that is emotional, thought-provoking, disturbing, and heartbreaking with a hint of a romance weaved into the story to lighten the mood ever so slightly.
I particularly liked the narration in Lane’s voice as she was quick-witted and had a sense of humor that I found extremely enjoyable to read.I was also thoroughly impressed with how the author made me feel while I was reading this story.
I read some of the reviews before starting this and a lot of people described the unsettling content in The Roanoke Girls, but even then I was still shocked by it!
After Lane Roanoke’s Mum commits suicide, she returns to the family home in Kansas.
Where her grandparents and cousin Allegra live - one she has never visited before, and one her mother never mentioned.
Every female in the family has either died or run away, Lane’s mother, Auntie, her grandfathers sisters.
Every single Roanoke girl apart from Lane and Allegra.
The content is handled maturely and with care by the author, but that made it no less shocking.
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/TODAAAAAAAAY (3/7) IS RELEASE DAY. “You know your family’s fucked up, right?” he asked. “Like, seriously screwed.” If you want to sit at the lunch table with Mitchell and me you probably need to buy this. (Also, we wear pink on Wednesdays.) I’ve only read about 40 books so far this year, so declaring this to be “My Favorite Read of 2017” is a bit lackluster at this point. I will say that I bet any of you a dollar it ends up as at least
I’ve also been forcing this on everyone I know – even though it wasn’t even available for them to buy/check out from the library.
You’ll also most likely pick up on the trail of breadcrumbs that is left almost from the start, but if you’re anything like Mitchell or myself it won’t deplete your reading experience in the least .
If your idea of a "beachy read" is dark like Mitchell's heart, this might be the winner for you.
It gets every single star and people need to get on their library waiting lists pronto before it blows the roof off the joint on release date.
The Roanoke Girls is exactly the type of twisted tale that I’d sneak into my library book stack when I was a teenager, so it triggered a nostalgic feeling in me.
(view spoiler)[The Roanoke Girls addresses the confusing feelings a survivor of sexual abuse may have, the type of feelings that aren't easy for outsiders to hear.
Because behind the secrets and the horrible truth, under the shame and anger that beat like a heart, there still lives a terrible kind of love.What kept the whole story from being too much for me, was that it isn't overly explicit.
I'm in a state of shock.I am stuck for words.
I only remember maybe two other books making me feel like this after finishing.
This novel is already in my list of Top 17 Books of 2017, skipping the long list and the short list.
The plot will devour you as you inhale each word.
Please promise me you'll get this book, right now preferred.
Just read it and come back and please tell me how it made you feel.6 stars.
Trust me.A must-read book in your lifetime dear readers.
I bought and read the Kindle version of this book.
What a messed up family!All of THE ROANOKE GIRLS are dark haired and exceptionally beautiful.
Generation after generation, nothing but mesmerizing knockout beauty, but they have a big problem.
They all hail from a "sick" dysfunctional family and end up having short troubled lives.The story begins when sixteen year old Lane is sent off to live with her rich grandparents and vivacious cousin after her disturbed ROANOKE mother commits suicide.
DNF. I think I'm going through a rut. I've DNF'ed several books in the past week. This is definitely the case of it's me not the book. I made it about 50%. I wasn't even bothered by the subject matter.
Copy furnished by Net Galley for the price of a review.What is with those Roanoke girls? More to the point, what is with their ever-so-loving Dad and Granddad? And how does the mysterious and glamorous Gran fit into the picture? Being welcomed home with open arms is not always everything it is cracked up to be. The Roanoke girls. They either end up running away or they die.Subject matter will be a deal-breaker for some readers.
There were really no shocking or overly disturbing moments for me as I was prepared for them allowing me to stay focused on the characters and not the subject matter.The story is told from Lane one the Roanoke girls shifting from the past when Lane first arrived at Roanoke after her mother dies by suicide and the present when she returns after her cousin Allegra disappears.
The Roanoke Girls is a disturbing story but I felt Engel did a good job of keeping it somewhat comfortable allowing me to care and feel for the characters without overwhelming me with anger with the disturbing subject matter.
Characters that at once irritated me, then made me want to reach out and give them a hug.The reader is privy to the 'dark secret' early on, and to be honest I wasn't all that surprised.
What did surprise me though was how the author handled this secret through the rest of the book.Instead of it being smack in your face, there were undertones of it as the story played out, bouncing between Now and Then chapters, leading up to the final confrontation where there can be no more denial.
Right. Now we have 'domestic noir', we need a new genre name for this kind of book. The trashy literary thriller thing. The stories that fake depth with verbs that seem to be drawn from a litfic-by-numbers crib sheet.  The Girls  and its sisters. Reading one of these is like finding a box of mini donuts in the reduced section at the supermarket, when the sugar's turned gummy but they're only 20p, or all of The Only Way is Essex being added to Netflix: it's rubbish, but you'd better believe I'm c
One of the eponymous girls even carves out words with a knife in an attempt to exorcise her own demons, exactly like Camille in Sharp Objects, though Allegra Roanoke uses hard surfaces, not skin, as her canvas.
The disturbing secret that makes the Roanokes 'special' is revealed pretty early, leaving the bulk of the story to deal with the mystery of Allegra's disappearance and the question of whether returned runaway Lane will reunite with the guy she dated as a teenager.Of course there are sparks of good stuff, or I wouldn't have finished it, much less finished it in a day.
Look at this tangle of thorns ~ Vladimir NabokovOsage Flats, Kansas. Roanoke farm. A family of extraordinary beautiful women - descendants of Lily and Yates Roanoke; a mix-n-match architectural mansions; old hired hands; an old barn; corn fields; oil reserves. Lane, fifteen, almost sixteen years old, the last surviving descendant, was called home by the patriarch when Allegra disappeared. Roanoke girls never last long there, they either run or die.   “Sophia drowned in the North Fork during the
I felt like puking my lungs out and burn the darn Roanoke place to the ground with the entire family bolted in chains to the floors to prevent them from escaping.
I'm still not giving away the secret, so don't worry :-)(view spoiler)[When I decided to read this book, I was under the impression that it was all about an old mansions, the family populating it through several generations and a delicious mysterious secret behind its walls.
I'm joking, but I just felt the carnal element in the book was so totally over-exploited and unnecessary so (perhaps to enhance sales, I don't know?).
Her Mother never wanted Lane to ever know about the Roanoke family or history.Lane attempts to make a life for herself at Roanoke, spending a lot of time with her Cousin Allegra and forms a relationship with a teenager boy, Cooper, in town.
Coming home to look for Allegra, also means that Lane needs to face the demons from the past.
I wanted to know if this families secrets would ever see the light of day and of course, what happened to Allegra.Even though this book has uncomfortable subject matter, there are no graphic scenes.
Now, years later, her cousin Allegra is missing and Lane goes back to Kansas to figure out what happened and face the events of the summer that changed her life...I saw the title Roanoke Girls being thrown around but I knew nothing about the book when it went on sale for $2.99.
When her cousin Allegra goes missing, Lane has to face the music.Much like Tampa, this will be a polarizing book.
The story is told in two threads: the summer after Lane's mother's death and her return to Kansas to find out what happened to Allegra.
These characters enraged me at times- the story had kept me curious and wanting to find resolution within it- and then other parts were so vile and disturbing, it left me with my jaw dropped and just staring at the wall asking -what did I just read? I want to thank Amy Engel and Crown Publishing for the opportunity to read this.I received a copy of this book through NetGalley for an honest opinion.
It reminded me of my first time picking up a V.C. Andrews book as a kid, and being so enraptured, yet totally disgusted from start to finish.
You learn very quickly that there is some incest and child grooming going on in the family, and things just snowball onward from there.
The chapters alternate timelines between Lane’s teen and adult years, which is done flawlessly and makes the story pass incredibly quickly.I enjoyed Lane tremendously as a narrator; despite making poor decisions, her behavior is constantly being addressed as the result of her childhood traumas.
Lane discovers more about the rest of her family, "The Roanoke girls", and that the only two remaining are her and Allegra - the others are either dead or simply ran off.
Yet Lane know she can't leave without finding out what happened to Allegra - did she run or did something much more sordid happen to her?
The atmosphere throughout the book feels suffocating with the stifling and oppressive heat of Kansas.
This book achieves that feeling through the descriptions of the isolation that comes with living in a middle of nowhere small town, combined with the stifling heat and humidity.
This story is about one messed up family with secrets and very flawed characters.
Covering very dark subjects, this book is likely to trigger strong emotions in some readers.The Roanoke Girls was told in such a way that it had a subtle feel to it, rather than instant shock.
I don’t like that it made me feel that way, and for me that made it all the more disturbing to read.
Perhaps that was the author’s intention.Definitely not the book for you if you’re easily upset or offended, but I think this will appeal to those who like dark stories with flawed characters.
This book was addicting, but I couldn’t stand the MC!
