https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18114060-missing-you
Loving my fabulous book talk with my uber cool Goodreads friends of late.
He’s undoutably a safe bet, I don’t always rate all his books 5 stars but I do enjoy them a bloody lot!I ripped through this one in a few days, stayed up till 1am last night to finish.
Those who know me even a wee bit know that this is a good sign, and there was no trace of my impatience and not being able to absorb myself into the small pockets of reading time that I’ve been struggling with over my last couple of books.
Only this time the connections are more broad and cautionary to all you Match.com people out there.Kat Donovan, a respected NYPD detective, is encouraged by a friend to seek companionship on an online dating site in an effort to bring some haneky-pankey into her mundane love life by a friend.
Seriously, after 18 years, and feeling like I lost the true love of my life, I'm searching for him.
It is you I'm searching for on Facebook every night.Besides my small qualms with this novel, I still love Harlen Coben's fiction.
When it comes, Jeff appears not to remember her, which crushes Kat. She sends him another message, identifying herself, and Jeff replies telling her that the past is past, and she should just leave him alone.Something doesn't seem quite right, and so Kat begins to investigate and stumbles onto an Internet dating scam where innocent victims are going of on dates with people they met online and are never heard from again.
It's clear that he enjoys doing this sort of thing, and apparently a lot of his readers enjoy it too, but for me it's a twist too far and inevitably leaves me a bit disgruntled every time I finish one these novels.
Originally posted at The Book NymphoYou can always count on several plots that will eventually converge in a Harlan Coben story.
This is the first of his stories I've read where a woman is the main character.
There's another storyline involving a woman whose son believes she's missing and asks a skeptical Kat to investigate.
It was a chilling aspect of the book and I stayed up all night to finish, riveted by a pretty exciting climax.
The ending was fantastic and the requisite twists (another Coben staple) were pretty remarkable.
I've yet to be disappointed by a Harlan Coben novel.
Kat's friend sets her up an account with a dating service and out of a sense of obligation, she logs on to the site and gets the shock of her life when a picture of Jeff, the love of her life and former fiance also has a profile on the site.
Kat's search for the truth about her father, the dating service, missing women, and Kat's puzzlement over what she learns about Jeff who has been out of her life for many years now.
I am so amazed at this book. I need to think it through. Don't even know where to begin, what to include and where to end.First off, I laughed at the silly pickup lines in O' Malley's Pub in New York City.  Sunglasses honed in on Kat and began to make his move. He didn’t so much walk toward her as glide on his own slime. Stacy suppressed a giggle. “This is going to be good.” Hoping to discourage him, Kat gave the guy flat eyes and a disdainful frown. Sunglasses was not deterred. He bebopped over
Websites such as "Justmytype.com".Stacey was a private detective with her own successful firm.
Some people learnt from experience that happiness is fragile, which should be treasured every moment, and that the rest of life is, in a sense, just background noise.Kat had eighteen years of sorrow behind her.
The day her police officer dad was murdered, was also the beginning of the end for Jeff and her.
Being obsessed with her quest to find the real killer, she lost the love of her life, Jeff, who walked away.
But then Stacey thought of doing Kat a favor by enrolling her on the "Justmytype.com" website.
3.5* The first few chapters were exceedingly slow with pointless silly dialogue.
The main character, NYPD Detective Kat Donovan innocently checks out an online dating site,‘YouAreJustMyType.com’ looking for romance.
However, romance isn’t in the cards on this website as Kat is suddenly drawn in to find a missing person who has disappeared after several dates with one of the male members.
Donovan has other matters to deal with as she continues to search for answers with regard to her father’s murder.
Overall the book was enjoyable once you were past those first annoying chapters.
Kat is a NYPD Detective and has been trying to figure out why and who killed her father, (also a NYPD cop), eighteen years ago.
When the person who confessed to his killing dies, the information he provided starts to become chock full of holes, which in turn sends Kat into overdrive with more questions than ever.
She has devoted herself to her work and searching for the truth behind what really happened all those years ago, this of course does not leave much time for relationships or dating.
Kat is confused but decides to let sleeping dogs lie, however, her best friend is not and starts her own little investigation.
I'm taking a 'life's too short' approach to books these days and on this basis I've decided it's way too short to continue with this one.
If the reader is good it can add value to the telling of the story but if they are bad it can ruin it completely.
Now, I'm not saying Kerry Shale is a bad reader but here he uses some terrible, condescending voices to portray a number of the male characters.
It's just so off-putting I can't continue.
The characters are one dimensional and overall it's just dull, dull, dull.Ah well, the good news is it will free me up to pick up something better.
I've read pretty much everything Coben's written, and liked most of it, but this outing was an incoherent pastiche.Let's see.
You've got Kat and her father's murder and her cop buddies, all with issues.
You've got the online dating issue.
You've got the wisecracking sidekick, and the little sly references to other Coben characters.
But the pieces don't precisely fit together into a believable story.And worse, you get Coben's smart-ass verbal tone--the one that works so well for Myron Bolitar--coming out of the mouths of other characters.
And finally, you get long stretches of characters running around in the woods or drinking expensive booze, etc etc, that feel like (no nice way to say this) padding.
Or maybe it was Sigmund or Freud or Siskel or Ebert.MISSING YOU did have its sentimental moments.
Probably one of just many reasons why I’d say I’m not necessarily a normal member of society.That’s also why I probably need to find a slightly more populated state for my twilight years.
The ending came a bit too soon (although not at the wrong time), but I wanted to continue to dangle on the edge of the plateau staring down at the river below.Was I satisfied?
Harlan Coben is the go to man for seat of your pants excitement.Talk about “can’t put this down” that’s an understatement.Brendan’s mother has gone of for a holiday with a guy she met online.
Brendan is convinced that she is in danger but the police tell him she’s a grown woman and he should not worry her.At the same time Kat Donovan, a 40 years old, single, NYPD detective sees a picture of her boyfriend from 18 years ago on a online dating site.
Brendan, a genius with computers, tracks Kat down and unloads all his worries on Kat concerning his mother.Kat and Brendan decide to look a little closer at the dating site.
Every time I pick up a Coben novel, I get gripped by the story and race through the book, ignoring everything around me."Missing You" was no different.
(Yes, yes, the proliferation of crime TV shows means it's become a cop trope that an officer is haunted by a parent's homicide, but just roll with it.)Anyway, Kat is working multiple leads, one of which involves her ex-boyfriend, Jeff, who might be mixed up in something illegal.
(view spoiler)[Bonus points to Coben for coming up with a good catfishing scheme.
If this is your first Coben, you're in for a wild ride.
Missing YouDetective Kat Donovan is persuaded to put her profile on an online-dating site.
From this very coincidental event, the entire plot will develop, involving missing men and women and an adaptable villain who has moved from a low-level early career to something more profitable and deadly.What I liked: the actual mystery was suspenseful.
The other secondary plot line about Kat's father also left me cold.
I was expecting a mystery or thriller with this novel, and it was there, but only after suffering through two tedious secondary story lines.
Ante todo tengo que decir que más que una novela negra me ha parecido de suspense romántico. De todas maneras, me ha decepcionado un poco; quizá porque me ha parecido que le faltaba algo, o porque no me he llegado a creer ese amor...
4.5 Stars. Zipped right thru this latest tome by Harlan Coben that is full of mystery, suspense, murder and surprises. Super fast-paced with interesting characters (gotta love Aqua), and even a very brief tie-in to Win and Lock-Horne Investments (from the Myron Bolitar series). Loved it! Highly recommend!
Although you are able to fit the pieces together, piece by piece, you're still unsure of what the overall picture is....you're also missing that one very important puzzle piece.....even when it's all solved, you still won't see everything until the last possible minute....that's right....you need to read this one to the end.....and just listen up....it's worth your time and your trouble.....this is a heart racing read...the further you read, the more your heart is going to race....near the end, you're certain to be fighting yourself to slow down and actually read the pages and not just race ahead to see what happens....This is a solid 5 star read for me....It might not be the best book I read in 2014, but I wouldn't be surprised if it ends up being the most suspenseful and exciting read of the year!
I can't believe I had never read a Harlan Coben novel before, where have I been?!This is definitely one of the best thriller books I have read in a long time.
oh my gosh. so intense!!!! few twists in this book and totally did not see the end happening. totally would recommend if you love a good crime and thriller
And I've discovered that what makes a good written book doesn't necessarily work as an audiobook.
Audiobooks need to be fast paced enough to keep your attention without bogging you down in detail.
Harlan Coben succeeds with fun plot lines, wonderful turns of phrase and interesting characters.
In fact, I found myself scratching my head trying to figure out how they were going to come together.
The ending beggars belief, but overall the book is an entertaining story that will keep your attention.
The narrator does a wonderful job with distinct voices for each character.
I need to say that I'm not a huge fan of Coben, but I enjoyed reading this book very much.I couldn’t put it down until I finished the entire book. (Read in Portuguese)
The first chapter made me want to not even read the rest of the book.
I just kind of felt that the author did not do a very good job of writing a convincing female lead.
This is the first book I've read by Harlan Coben so I don't know if he has written strong female characters in the past.
But it is a decent story with a good ending that is quick and easy to read.
So despite some character flaws and lack of descriptive dialogue, I give this book 3 out of 5 stars.***I received this book for free through Goodreads First Reads***
She is also drawn into the mystery of the murder of her father, who was also a cop, and tries to discover the real truth behind it.I really loved the main character, Kat Donovan, she was just a great kick-ass protagonist, almost like a Clarice Starling type-character from The Silence Of The Lambs!
So far, as long as I've been a Harlan Coben fan, I don't think I've ever picked up a book by him that I did not like, he's just such a great writer, one of my faves!!
There were far too many plots in this book involving far too many characters; all felt unfinished and all characters felt undeveloped.
Each story/plot was quite interesting on its own, and I would have enjoyed a fuller exploration of each one.
Each character was intriguing, and in would have greatly enjoyed the back story of each character.
What was Brandon like before his father died?
I can't speak for every Harlan Coben fan, but I enjoy his writing style and wouldn't be dissuaded from reading a much longer book that was properly developed.
When NYPD Detective Kat Donovan learns that Monte Leburne - the hitman convicted of killing her cop father 18 years ago - is dying, she visits him in prison.
The love of her life, Jeff Raynes, called off their enagagement soon after her father's death and Kat never got over it.
But when Kat contacts Jeff she gets a discouraging response, hurting her all over again.While Kat continues to look into her dad's murder - which antagonizes her superiors and the cops who originally investigated the crime - nineteen-year-old Brandon Phelps asks for her help.
My 100th book read this year - and it was fantastic!
I've had this book for a year or so, but I read "Fool me once" first, which I hated.
The main one is Kat. She is still suffering from her father's murder 18 years before, she isn't convinced that the right man was convicted.
It's not often I come across a book that manages to both entertain and touch me, "Missing You" managed this.
Because here's the thing: in this type of book the dog - if one is featured - ALWAYS dies.
A friend gives her a membership to an online dating site, where she finds hew ex-fiance.
I know I’m going to be in for an exciting ride and this book did not disappoint me.
Piece by piece, the picture of all that is going on in Kat’s life fall into place, but it takes that last piece for everything to become clear.Mr. Coben always gives us believable characters and story-lines.
This one really spoke to the potential dangers of online dating sites and how the internet has become the new focus for committing crimes.

I know that I expect a whole lot out of a Harlan Coben book.
This was a great book but it was not as great as some of the books that Mr. Coben.One of my fangirl moments with Harlan CobenKat Donovan is a NYPD detective.
As Kat is scrolling through the photos of available men on the site, she finds Jeff, the man that she had planned to marry 18 ago.
While Brandon has had some contact with his mother, he feels that something is wrong.Several plot lines connect and intertwine as the book comes to an exciting conclusion.
I love Harlan Coben's writing a lot so this was a real treat for me since it has been awhile for me reading one of his books.SynopsisIt's a profile, like all the others on the online dating site.
I found it to be very fluid and easy to follow but would have liked it to be a bit faster paced.
At times though, it seemed like things were a bit too easy for her, not many challenges and that kind of makes the story lack that certain excitement when our protagonists have to fight for every inch.I do recommend this book to any one who is a Coben fan.
