https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3873.A_History_of_God
Now, what to say about it?I started this book knowing a moderate amount about the history of Christianity, a small amount about Judaism, and much too little about Islam.
Some of her writing confirmed my frustrations with organized religions while other portions encouraged me to have a more open mind about the innumerable ways to conceive of and worship God. I have appreciated this book immensely in this regard.A final note: Armstrong seems to have considerable beef with Christianity, and to an extent Judaism, and she considerably elevates Islam above the other two.
سيرة الله لكارين أرمسترونغالكتاب يبحر في مفهوم الإله في الديانات الثلاثة الكبرىاليهودية - المسيحية - الإسلاملقراء الإنجليزية يمكنكم مشاهدة هذا الوثائقي الممتعوالذي يعتمد على أفكار الكتاب الرئيسيةhttps://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Fx4m1...
For instance, the Holy Trinity in Christianity - sorting out a satisfactory formula expressing the relationships between God the Father & Jesus the Son & the Holy Spirit presented hideous problems which took around 300 years to resolve and - it seems to me - the whole enterprise was utterly - utterly - futile because it stemmed from a misreading of a metaphor in the New Testament, i.e. Jesus as Son of God. You don't need to figure out the relationships between metaphors, but if you think they're actually describing realities, then you do.Fundamentalists appear to be unable to either grasp the idea of metaphorical language, or, allowing them that degree of intelligence, unable to accept that the Bible is poetry which uses metaphor all the time- And they heard the voice of the Lord God walking in the garden in the cool of the dayAnd the angel of the Lord appeared unto him in a flame of fire out of the midst of a bush: and he looked, and, behold, the bush burned with fire, and it was not consumed.
عندما جسد البشر الاله بحيث يكون بعيدا، ليس كمثل اي شيء نعرفه، اصبح الاله بعيدا، ولم يعد البشر يشعرون بالقرب منهفهنا جسدته بعض الديانات بصفات نفهمها نحن البشر ونشعر بها، كي نشعر نحوه بالتآلف والقرب، وهنا اختلف المسيحيون عن بقية الأديان الابراهيمية، بحيث أنهم حولوه الى رجل، أو أب حنون محب، بينما ركز المسلمون واليهود على اعطاؤه صفات بشرية (كالغضب والفرح والحب والبغض والغيرة) ونسب له اليهود صفات بشرية تدل على الضعف كـ(التعب)..الكتاب حول الى فلم وثائقي تحت نفس العنوان..
هل هي ملحدة أو أغنوستية ترى أن الدين ظاهرة مفيدة وصحية للشعوب؟أعتقد انه بعد السماع لمحاضراتها أنها "موحدة" تميل لفهم يهودي للاله، مع أخذها لخلاصة رسائل الديانات المونوثية الثلاث..
She approves of the latter, while disliking the former whose finest or worst examples depending on your point of view she finds in the Western European Catholic and Protestant traditions which finally, in her opinion, hoisted themselves on their petards by embracing a literal faith in the Bible shortly before the age of Lyle and Darwin and Mendel.Armstrong's history of God then is the history of styles and manners of belief in God. The problem with the way she does it is that she unleashes, not hell, but such a mass of prophets, mystics, and philosophers upon the reader that we can move across the thought and ideas of three or four people in a single page - almost all of whom are men, Julian of Norwich, Bridget of Sweden, and Theresa of Avila just manage to squeeze in.
I still can't decide if it's good or not. That's that problem with being kinda dumb.
It reminds me of the type of history Will Durrant wrote, where he would take a period of time and write extensively about all the facets of history within that time.
Armstrong, on the other hand, takes just one facet of history and writes extensively about it over a long (4000 year) period of time.
I know I will continue to think upon what she said and use it as I try to make sense of the world.And, to make it even better, I learned recently that Karen Armstrong was a winner of the 2008 TED prize.
(I highly recommend all the TED prize winners' talks!)
The same religion in south east asia saw the need to absorb locals in :)Me: Ambedkar claims elsewhere that early Hinduism was an evangelizing religion and that once caste and varna systems were hardened, it had to stop being one.
what say?now, if i assume that tribal religions are exclusivist and accept this line of reasoning, it would seem to imply that religions once they pass a critical mass, will become missionary in nature (religion and politics going together).
however if they do not reinvent themselves to lose completely their exclusivist tendencies (as happened with islam etc), then they will eventually reach another critical mass when they harden and cant expand anymore.
Having never taken a comparative religion class, and in fact bordering on an antiestablishment stance when it comes to organized religion, I can only conclude that this book was not the place to start.
I hate to indulge myself this way, but to illustrate my point I quote from page 270 a part of a paragraph which starts, "Luria gave a new meaning to the original image of the exile of the Shekinah.
In Luria's myth, the Shekinah fell with the other sefiroth when the Vessels were shattered." Granted, it is taken out of context, but it borders on reading a foreign language.
الله والإنسان للأسف لم يحظ كتاب بهذه الأهمية بترجمة جيدة، أتمنى ألا تعاني بقية كتب كارين أرمسترونغ من ذات المشكلة، خاصة وكتبها مهمة وتتناول مواضيع متعمقة في الأديان أو التجربة الدينية، في كتابها هذا والذي تم تغيير عنوانه ليتلاءم مع الرقيب العربي – العنوان الأصلي (تاريخ الإله)-، تؤرخ أرمسترونغ للطريقة التي فهم بها الناس الإله، وهي تركز في ذلك على الديانات التوحيدية، متناولة صورة الإله في اليهودية والمسيحية والإسلام، من خلال الفرق والمذاهب الدينية التي ظهرت وتصارعت في الأديان الثلاثة. كتاب مهم جداً، ومن الأفضل قراءته بلغته إن أمكن.
Karen Armstrong's superbly readable exploration of how the three dominant monotheistic religions of the world - Judaism, Christianity, and Islam - have shaped and altered the conception of God is a tour de force.
From classical philosophy and medieval mysticism to the Reformation, the Enlightenment, and the modern age of skepticism, Armstrong performs the near miracle of distilling the intellectual history of monotheism into one compelling volume.'My reading is going extremely slow, merely because it requires concentration to read the book and I suspect that it will take a few months to get through it.
It is not only the historical timeline of the development of religion (of God), the evolutionary process of polytheism to monotheism for Judaism, Christianity and Islam, but also a philosophical experience.
Perhaps, somewhat unfortunately for religion and for God, we are in a period marked by the predominance of rationality.
Ever since Kant, philosophers have admitted the existence of a god cannot be logically supported (and of course, Kant still willingly chose to believe).So where does Ms. Armstrong take us in world after Kant, Hume, Schopenhauer, Nietzsche, and the like?
As such, I had a number of things I wanted to say in my review, yet, I think a quick bit of advise would suffice as an alternative.Unless you're moving into the field of Theology (in which case I doubt you'll read this anyway) I would advise NOT to try and kill yourself over remembering every name, every sub-catogary and every belief system held about God thought this book.
Believe me, you won't think quite the same afterwards.Ultimately, this is just another story of human kind trying to make sense of what it is we're doing here, and I believe if the reader imagines this whilst reading A History of God, they won't be disappointed with the result.
Kali ini dalam Sejarah Tuhan (gold edition diterbitkan Mizan tahun 2012) Armstrong membahas dengan lugas, secara gamblang namun mudah dipahami tentang tiga agama monotheis terbesar di dunia: Yahudi, Kristen dan Islam.Dalam bab pendahuluan ada secuil kisah ketika Armstrong berada dalam sebuah ordo Katolik dan keluarnya dari ini yang melatarbelakangi ia menulis Sejarah Tuhan.
Bab-bab berikutnya adalah komentar Armstrong tentang sejarah "pencarian Tuhan" yang bermula dari agama-agama politheisme Mesopotamia dan bagaimana keyakinan mereka bersinergi dengan kisah pencarian Tuhan oleh Abraham dan sejarah awal Yudaisme.
Tak hanya tentang sejarah Tuhan yang muncul dalam Yahudi, Kristen dan Islam saja namun Armstrong juga membahas tentang perkembangan spritualisme dalam ketiga agama tersebut terutama dalam hal filsafat dan mistikisme.
Ternyata benar kata broda Graha, meski tebal (dan gada gambarnya ;)), namun tidak membosankan untuk dibaca.Dalam buku ini, Ms. Armstrong menitik beratkan pada tiga agama samawi di dunia, dengan sedikit meyinggung Buddha, Hindu dan kepercayaan lainnya.
Dengan merujuk pada para Tokoh filsafat dan religi dari masa kebudayaan Pagan hingga agama modern, Ms. Armstrong secara sabar menuntun pembaca untuk menemukan benang merah pada ketiga agama besar tersebut, yang pada akhirnya membawa kita pada keseragaman konsep pemikiran mengenai Tuhan.
Salah satu yang saya tangkap adalah, meski setengah mati kita mencoba merasionalkan keberadaanNya, pada akhirnya harus mengakui bahwa Ia memang tak terjangkau akal dan dimensi ke-mahlukan kita.
At the same time, we can have a personal relationship with that Being we call God. Religion is something purely human-made about a phenomena that is undeniable--God exists and He can exist purely for the benefit of the individual, however he or she defines God. This book is not for the light reader.
I suggest reading the book quickly through first, to understand what the author is saying.
Don't worry about understanding further chapters until earlier chapters are understood.
I consider this one of my all-time favorite books.
It is about time for another read.
It is about time for another read.
Karen Armstrong has no background in history nor in the academic study of religion, and it shows.
This book's approach to the three Abrahamic religions is overly simplistic, presenting only Armstrong's often-erroneous views of these three prominent religions with almost no grounding in historical fact.
Books like this are part of the reason why so many non-academics have such a poor understanding of the history of religion in the world, and do little more than contribute to the cloud of misinformation which surrounds the field.
Meski tidak sempurna...Well, dari yang gue pahami setelah baca, buku ini menjelaskan sejarah PERSEPSI dan PENGALAMAN manusia tentang Tuhan.
Buku tebal ini tidak menjelaskan sejarah realitas, tapi sejarah persepsi.Gagasan tentang Tuhan ternyata punya sejarah tersendiri karena setiap kelompok manusia dalam tiap periode memiliki pandangan yang berbeda mengenai citra Tuhan.
Terus, lanjut ke masa agama Yahudi dengan sejarah yang bikin gue tercengang karena sering banget diceritakan bahwa bangsa Yahudi diusir dan harus pindah dari satu wilayah ke wilayah lainnya.
Selain itu, gue jadi paham ternyata tiga agama ini berasal dari satu akar yang sama.
"The economic changes over the last four hundred years have been accompanied by immense social, political, and intellectual revolutions, with the development of an entirely different, scientific and rational, concept of the nature of truth; and once again, a radical religious change has become necessary." As science and technology began to become associated with such visible successes in overcoming disease and social ills, the tendency was to believe that logos (rational, scientific thinking related exactly to facts and external realities) was the only “means to truth and began to discount mythos [that which is timeless and constant, “looking back to the origins of life .
For example, she asserts that the creation myths of Sumeria, Canaan, and Egypt were not intended to explain the origins of the world.
Finally, she cites original sources extensively, but fails to cite any of the critical sources from which she draws; when the Higher Criticism is introduced, it is not even referenced by that name, let alone any of its proponents.
Still, it is a very good guide to the development of mystical (rather than theological) thought in the three Abrahamic religions, and I recommend it especially for those who, like me, disagree with its final conclusions.
Karen Armstrong does an outstanding job of describing the rise of the world's three most important religions besides Hinduism, Buddhism and Confucianism. It is a daunting undertaking which she absolutely masters from end to end. I keep saying this in reviews, but with all the slander of islam in on Fox, CNN, TF1, etc and the long history on anti-Semitism particularly here in Europe, it is critical for truly understanding and interpreting our modern world to understand where The Big Three came from, how they are similar and how they are different.
stop in the mid of book, maksud hati ingin mendapat pencerahan terkait sejarah agama2 monoteisme tapi bukannya semakin tercerahkan tapi malah semakin bingung.
mungkin sebaiknya harus memiliki pengetahuan teologi yg memadai terlebih dahulu sebelum membaca buku ini.
buku ini juga menunjukkan bahwa Tuhan terlalu besar dan agung untuk dibahas dan dipahami secara rasional.
perubahan definisi dan pemahaman akan Tuhan di tiap jaman dan bangsa bukan berarti bahwa Tuhan selalu berubah2 mengikuti perkembangan jaman, tetapi lebih karena keterbatasan manusia untuk memahami Tuhan dan pemahaman manuasia akan Tuhan pun pada akhirnya mengikuti kebutuhan spiritual mereka.
terlalu naif bagi manusia untuk memahami dan mendefinisikan Tuhan, kecuali meyakiniNya sebagai penguasa alam yang Maha Segala.
The most comprehensive, exhaustive, and fascinating study of the Abrahamic religions and how they have changed over a few thousand years. Of definite interest to both religious and non-religious folks. Absolutely fascinating, but be warned: it is very dense, well-documented and cited, and reads much like a textbook (though a very engaging one). Over 100 pages of endnotes, a glossary, extensive bibliography with annotations for further reading, and fortunately, copious amounts of space in the front and back of the book for microscopic notes on topics of interest. Brilliant, thought-provoking, prescient, and challenging.
The dissection of Islam was handled with an informed respect, and makes this book a useful guide for those whose knowledge on the subject is minimal (like myself).
The history and competing image of the Koran is given a good deal of the spotlight-treatment, which I found very helpful.Besides covering the major movements of the Abrahamic faiths, Armstrong breaks down all the divisions that arose that most of us don't consider when analyzing the standpoint and structure these faiths at any given time; she is always careful to include the stance and specifics of the dissenters whenever she makes a statement on the more commonly-known positions of the Church or governing religious body.
Armstrong, a former Catholic nun, traces the histories of Christ, Yahweh, and Allah from their common roots to the present, taking brief excursions along the way to explore some of the more interesting and eccentirc sects that have sprung up and usually been exterminated with extreme prejudice along the way.
She points out, for example, that all three trace their claims of Truth back to a single man, Abraham, who believed in a god named El, who is none of the three major monotheistic deities of the west.
Oh, and while Abraham did worship a single god, he believed in many gods.
This book by Karen Armstrong covers the development of the world's three major monotheistic faiths. Although I am incredibly interested in the subject, this book was a tough read for me. It is very dense with information and I probably ended up skimming the text more than I should have. I'll most likely end up re-reading it some time down the road to gain a greater appreciation of the subject.
The day before results were due, he goes to a place of worship and with a rather embarrassed face tells God :‘I mean….you know….well…I am not saying you should get me through but then if I don’t make it then people would think you didn’t do your job well…so what say ?’ and he ended up passing the exam.
Armstrong however plods determinedly ahead and tries to make sense of how the abstraction of God has achieved shape and form among the followers of these religions.
A reading of the title of this book will bring to your mind an image of an easily understandable history of God as told by the three religions but then nothing could be farther from the truth.
ولكن، لماذا أربعة آلاف عام مما قد يشكل تاريخاً للأديان التوحيدية الثلاث الكبرى فقط ؟ فنجد أرمسترونغ تجيبنا عن هذا السؤال المهم بحق؛ لأن مفهوم الإله الواحد في الشكل الذي اتخذته الأديان الثلاثة يشكل بداية تطور مفهوم ناضج للإلوهية لدى الإنسان، وهي عودة لمفهوم الألوهية الأول الذي عرفته البشرية قديماً، وقبل أن تكون هناك الأديان الوثنية، حسب نظرية شميدت في نشوء الأديان.
أما الإلحاد الثاني، فهو الإلحاد المبني على فكرة أنه لم تعد هناك حاجة للإله، فالإنسان يستطيع أن يقود الكون من هذه اللحظة.
Tak jarang, bertolak dari konsepsi mereka terhadap Tuhan, lahir gerakan-gerakan sosial yang bersifat liberatif atau bahkan juga muncul tindakan “anarkis” demi menegakkan citra Tuhan yang mereka yakini.Buku ini memerikan suatu peringatan dan pesan yang cukup jelas, bahwa kita semestinya tidak bersikap ahistoris terhadap konsep Tuhan yang berusaha dikenali manusia itu, bahwa ternyata sepanjang sejarah manusia nyaris memiliki konsepsi tentang Tuhan yang begitu beragam—bahkan dalam suatu periode.
Armstrong dalam buku ini memberikan suatu paparan menarik bahwa pada dasarnya ateisme itu muncul akibat ketidakcukupan konsepsi tentang Tuhan dalam mengikuti gerak roda zaman.
Abraham's El, Moses' Yahweh, The founding of Israeli Kingdoms, The expulsion of Jews, The birth of Christ and the Introduction of the Trinity, the Rise of Islam of Prophet Muhammad's Mission to create a world which works by the laws of Allah and for the benefit of his followers, the reformation of the idea of God and the roles of Mystics and Philosophers, the resentments towards the deity and seeking atheism as the solution of salvation, and many more events are covered in a brief, fast pacing way.
