https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2381176.New_World_Translation_of_the_Holy_Scriptures
I read the bible and meditate on it each day.
This book gives me inspiration and hope for the future.
Jehovah's Witnesses try to encourage bible reading throughout the world.
After all, he did give his life for us so that we could have everlasting life here on earth." "For God loved the world so much that he gave his only begotten son in order that everyone exercising faith in him might not be distoyed, but have everlasting life." John 3:16 Another comforting thought is found at Revelation 21:4 "And he will wipe out every tear from their eyes, and death will be no more, neither will morning nor outcry nor pain be any more.
The former things have passed away." It is truly inspiring.
"All scripture is inspired of God and beneficial for teaching, for reproving, for setting things straight, for disciplining in righteousness, that the man of God may be fully competent, completely equipped for every good work." - 2 Timothy 3:16,17.
This is of couse the best book ever written, and the best translation available. I recommend it for everyone!
no other book like this. Amazing read. Saved my life.
Clearest translation ever!
The bible is the most profound book that I have ever read.
I meditate on the scriptures and learn daily with this book.I highly recommend it to everyone who truly wants to live forever and to be able to see your your loved ones again, here on the earth in real life.
You will have the possiblity to be able to live forever here on the earth, as Jehovah's Kingdom will rule once again here on the earth and he promises no sickness, no death and he will have a princely rule by Jesus Christ.
Awesome
Best English translation of the Bible. The committee's goal was to translate phrases to not only faithfully represent the meaning, but to also use vernacular of modern English. The result is a Bible that anyone can read and easily understand. And since the Bible is the most important and influential book of all time, this is the way to go!
This is my lifeline. Without it I would have no hope.
Excellent translation.Makes Bible reading a pleasure.
The one, the only, the best book EVER!
It is an awesome book!
This is actually a collection of books put together by the Catholic church about 300 years after the last characters in the stories had died.
The original versions of these stories had many gods, but these had been edited out for the most part in an effort to rewrite history by people who were embarrassed by their polytheistic past.
Part 2: The New TestamentThis section is mostly about one main character - a half-human demigod who claims to be the son of the god of war from part 1.
This demigod character shares some of his father's traits, but is much milder tempered.
the best book EVER written. This is the most accurate translation of the original manuscripts you will ever find, and it is truely a life saver. Seriously~ if you read this book and follow what is outlined in it, then you can have everlasting life! No joke! You will live forever! So~ go read it! And don't worry about how long it takes you to read it. Some people can do it in a few months, other people take 2 years! But you definitely need to read and meditate on what it says!
Currently reading and will continue to read for the rest of my life. Life giving bread a spiritual feast.
My beloved assures me that this version of the Christian Bible is the best for accuracy and readability, and in some ways, I am agreed. Being one of those individuals with a lot of free time on their hands, I have read several versions of the Jewish Tanakh and the Christian New Testament, and find this one to be one of the clearest. Of course, having been raised Catholic, I will always be partial to their versions of the Good Book.
My first Biblical reading was from this. I began to notice some differences between this and my family's King Jimmy on the book shelf.
Best Bible translation period. Literal throughout, but discerning enough to know when a word for word translation would throw the English reader off. Not pressured by clumsy wording to support false doctrines. Uses the divine name throughout. Modern English. Most accurate Bible I have ever read.
A wonderful English translation!!
I just couldn't put it down!
According to David Bauscher, translator of the Aramaic Bible in Plain English, these instances coincide with his finding of God's name in manuscripts of the Peshitta, (he found 239 instances).To translate the Tetragrammaton, NWT uses the same spelling, Jehovah, as found in earlier translations.
Regardless whether this is the most accurate transliteration of God's name, it was the only accepted spelling in the English language when the NWT was translated.When Israelites spoke Hebrew, they pronounced God's name, יהוה, with three syllables, and later, after Bablylonian exile, and spoke Aramaic, they pronounced it with two syllables.
FIRST :)
Excellent version of the Holy Bible! I would highly recommend this book. Because, although I had read the Holy Bible years ago and even took a class in high school titled "Bible As Literature," this edition of the Holy Bible enabled me to better understand exactly what our Heavenly Father wants from His children. Past editions confused me a little. I feel this edition explains Father, Son, and The Holy Spirit much, much better than the editions I had read in the past; both in school and at home.
I've read from many versions of the Bible. This is the first version I have read cover to cover. I find this translation to be clear and direct. A friend who is a Greek Scholar has read from some of the oldest manuscripts. He told me that the New World Translation of the Greek (New Testament) is the most accurate he has every come across. In his opinion no one can improve on this translation of the Greek Scriptures into English.
This translation uses God's name, Jehovah, whereas many other editions refuse to use His name!I personally find the Bible to be very upbuilding and uplifting; it gives a wonderful hope for the future, and contains many prophecies that are a wonder to watch and see fulfillment. It's a great comfort in times of distress. (: 2 Timothy 3 v 16~
A must read.....daily. Inspiration, direction, reflection and motivation.
Jehovah is the name of our heavenly Father. And that Jehovah truly is the only true God and that HE is the author of the Bible
Finished!
And I strongly believe that it is God's word.
I was 9 when I started reading this.
And my goal since then was to finish reading the entire bible.
After long years of battling against unnecessary activities, I was able to finish reading the book last year.
And I'm reading it again but this time, I'm giving myself a chance to meditate on each chapter, to determine why God decided such chapter to be included in His book and how should it affect my life.
I have just finished reading the book of Ruth last night.
If you don't give the Bible five stars... you're seriously asking to get hit by a bus.I've read this book dozens of times in my life.
