https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/62795.Patriotism
The Niniroku Jiken Incident (or the February 26 Incident), was an attempted coup d'état in Japan on 26 February 1936, organized by a group of young Imperial Japanese Army officers with the goal of purging the government and military leadership of their factional rivals and ideological opponents.The hero of the story of the novella, the fictional Lieutenant Takeyama, feels that it is more honorable to commit ritual suicide than to have to choose between loyalty to his comrades and loyalty to the Emperor, by whom he is ordered take action against the rebels.But the novella is a foreshadowing of yet another event, an even stranger one, instigated by Yukio Mishima himself.Yukio Mishima is an icon of Japanese cultural life.
On -ismsIt seems that I had some issues with this novella. And the reasons, as usual, are completely personal and thus, irrelevant to your reading experience.Beyond tradition, beliefs, fear and indignation  at the imminent prospect of Imperial troops attacking Imperial troops,  I can't find a story breathtakingly infused with romanticism. I can't relate to the concept of patriotism. To a sort of world citizen, the attachment to a portion of land is somewhat feeble. Why I came here, I know not; w
I dislike most terms which end in the suffix -ism that don't involve my favorite writers.On licking blades and finding it remotely eroticAnother issue – the real theme in this novella – which prevented me from greatly enjoying this story was the excessive fascination for the concept of death, the morbid enchantment by the blade which was juxtaposed to a sense of beauty and sensuality; elements that when combined, I usually fail to identify with.
Regardless of my thoughts on the subject, with the precision of a surgeon, the author associated the concepts of patriotism and death with a sense of eroticism, until they were one single reality.
Thinking about words to express feelings.
Just in case: This review contains spoilers!Patriotism, for me, is one of those confused and confusing concepts that many equate simply with ‘love of country’ (which would, I suppose, be fine) but often takes the form of an ugly nationalism, which in my opinion, has never been merited—by any country, at any time.
It equates, roughly, with the notion that only other people’s religions are superstitions.For the sake of clarity, I do not regard Patriotism as a virtue, and that had something to do with putting off the reading of this novella as the title created approach/avoidance conflict within me.
Moving on.The novella presents the story of the final two days in the lives of Shinji and Reiko Takeyama.
He believes that death is better than having to choose between Japan and his close comrades whom have committed mutiny.While the prose is poetic and evokes a sense of beauty and eroticism in death, I feel that it isn't the kind of novella that you're supposed to love, as with patriotism towards one's country - rather, a sense of sorrow and melancholy for the characters and their fates, as with 憂国.After all, there is much to be discussed about a novella when the author himself ends his life in a similar vein to the main character - ultimately, was that an act of patriotism, or 憂国?
His wife, Reiko, followed him, stabbing herself to death".This is the opening to this powerful Mishima short-story, we know what's going to happen, it may lay out all of the facts of the story but only alludes to some of the emotion.
And the opening paragraph is done in a style similar to that of a news report or an obituary, disturbing as it is, this feels like it was written with immense pride.
In Patriotism(1960), Mishima uses the love-death theme executing the ancient ritual suicide, viscerally playing it out through a recently married couple.
The agonies they could not yet feel, the distant pains of death, had refined their awareness of pleasure.....At the touch of his wife's tears on his stomach the lieutenant felt ready to endure with courage the cruelest agonies of his suicide.
Takeyama considers his final act with the courage of a soldier entering battle, to "a death of no less degree and quality than death in the front line." For Reiko who, almost in a dreamlike state, would bravely follow him to honor their death pact like the dutiful spouse: "The day which, for a soldier's wife, had to come, has come." 
This story about lieutenant Shinji Takeyama and his young wife, Reiko, who commit suicide together after a mutiny against the Imperial Army, is one of the most harrowing tales I have read. The description of seppuku (ritual suicide by disembowelment) is graphic and visceral, yet lyrical and beautiful; knowing that Mishima himself performed the act in 1970 to end his life adds an eerie layer of significance to the story.
What an interesting novelette. Striking images all placed on a symbolic backdrop of white and red like the book cover. It was amazing how Mishima takes the reader through a horrible ritual but makes it feel like an art. Disturbing. It's a very quick read. So quick that I read it twice. I kept noticing things everywhere in the text. Review on the blog is up at http://didibooksenglish.wordpress.com.... Check it out!
yukio mishima's patriotism, though seemingly beloved by nearly all others, did not agree with me entirely.
while this is undoubtedly a complex story, dependent upon at least a cursory understanding of japanese culture, it may very well be that i simply misinterpreted mishima's aim.
perhaps he really was offering this visceral tale in criticism of fervid, often blind, patriotism.
it, however, seemed rather literal to me, especially given the overwhelming critical accolades it has attracted over the years.
i cannot say i disliked this book, it is simply that i was surprised by how little it moved me.
Torn between love for his friends, and love for his country and Emperor, Takeyama decides to commit suicide, followed by his wife, in the ultimate act of loyalty and patriotic duty.
However, the mixing of love, desire, eroticism, and violent death in the book seem to be meant to disturb the reader in some fashion.
This was largely successful, as Takeyama and Reiko's intense drive toward honourable suicide, and their violent death, are meshed with their feelings for one another, their intense loyalty, and their devotion.
Even so, such intense devotion to ones nation, and the act of committing suicide with ones own lover, offers a stirring tale.
Reading this book is sort of what I’d imagine watching a snuff film would be like.
I’ve written some apocalyptic fiction and I’d love to be able to capture that sort of mood so well.However, all of this is sort of spoiled by the fact that what the couple is doing is completely ridiculous.
The idea of ritualistic suicide is bizarre to me, and in the case of this book, you can’t even fool yourself into thinking that the author might be subtly critiquing the practice, as Mishima himself later committed seppuku.
Read Mishima’s incredibly detailed description of ritual disembowelment and think about that.
Patriotism is said to be Mishima's favorite story; there is little doubt it is one of his greatest - sublime in all its nuances, and compelling in its vision of finality.
How does Mishima create a scene that overwhelms the soul, enslaves the imagination, and draws out - almost beguiles - the perverse desire for the death act?He writes with sweeping power in a style so subtle, yet so alluring and consuming, that it leaves you trembling in bliss.
He writes with the absolute authority of determination that leaves no room for escape.Mishima has you believing that you are the master of your own destiny, in life, and, in death.
Mishima shows us the last act of a young officer who decides to commit seppuku. This novella offers insight into the reasoning process that someone about to end their life makes when they decide to die with (their perception of) honor - and foreshadows the tragic act Mishima latter committed.
This short story is breathtaking. I read it in college and I was brought to tears reading it on the subway.
Oh..Mishima.
I'd planned to read a lot more of his work, but with such a lot of world to see I never got around to seeking out more than some of his short stories.
It's a gruesome and harrowing story, but as an insight into a particular culture, and as a contemplation on the notions of love, devotion, duty and honour, it is one that I am glad to have read.Of course, mirroring this story, Mishima carried out 'seppuku', for political reasons, aged just 45.
It seems incredible, given his death at such a young age, that he could have produced so substantial a body of work, which amounted to 34 novels, 50 plays, 25 collections of short stories and 35 collections of essays.
Two questions: Why did I read?
A novella that contains one of the powerful beginnings.
The novella begins with a first chapter of just two pages in which the reader is already told of the tragedy.
The tragedy is always on every page and at the end when it really happens it is unbearable and you choke reading the pages.Why did Mishima write this book?
And then there is another point that can be also perceived: Mishima seems to be in love with the act of suicide.The pages at the end are really "bloody" and heavily disturbing for the weak hearts.
Probably the most sensual short story ever written.
The tale is gripping and pulls the strings of loyalty, honor and tough decisions that follow such stringent moralities, giving insight to ancient Japanese custom and culture as it reverberated down through the generations toward today's confusion in the cross between modernity and tradition.
I highly recommend this short story, most likely found in the short story collection Death in Midsummer, and as pertains to this story, don't be surprised if you find yourself hooked at the vivid descriptions in the story forming clear mental images of the short life of the two characters in the tale.
Mishima O Mishima!How is your writing to survive our world increasingly devoid of the notion of honor? Does your soul seethe, or does it merely regret your doings? How are we to give any value to this double suicide? It is better that we don't talk about you.
Not a book your girlfirend should read, unless they like seppiku..
He's the stunning, muscular guy who works out three times a day, a regimen that was not disrupted for the final 15 years of his life and appeared as a photo model in Young Samurai: Bodybuilders of Japan and Otoko: Photo Studies of the Young Japanese Male by Tamotsu Yatō; dressed in a loincloth and armed with a sword, posing in the snow.
It surely can't be out of patriotism--or at least our definition of patriotism: "love of one's country." Japanese uses a few different characters to describe patriotism, and I think this story outlines the patriotism that is a sort of gloomy grief and sorrow for one's country, except Mishima makes a mockery of it through his extremely flat and exaggerated characters.And if you've ever seen the movie version (starring The Man Himself), you'll realize that he really sexualizes seppuku, an act of penetration; there are two sexual climaxes in the film and he makes them painfully obvious.Again, don't take Mishima too seriously.
This book has only 30 pages which are better written than most 300 hundred page novels I've read.
It is beautiful, evocative and astonishingly terrible.
There's barely any plot to this.
Mishima describes the ritual suicide the Japanese call seppuku.
A lieutenant of the Imperial army torn between an impossible choice follows the only possible way out, the only choice that would save his honour.
An exaltation of suicide which the narrative compares to the act of loving.
Mishima's fascination with seppuku - the method he chose to end his own life - is strange and disturbing.
This book makes you uncomfortable right from the opening line and never loses the tone till the end.The overall story focusses mainly on the act of self-killing by an Army officer and his wife.
It opens with the announcement of the death of the couple, reverts back to give their background and proceeds to the act.
The emotional investment by the writer in the act of self-killing (Hara Kiri) is like that of a maniac.
PS : On more research, it appears that the writer also killed himself the same way, thus it's like foretelling his own death.
A lurid, blood-curdling "dissection" of suicide. The display of patriotism through suicide must be Mishima's master statement about the pursuit of art to its own end. It celebrates supreme vanity and it negates everything. Don't buy this book. Buy Death in Midsummer and Other Stories where this short story is only one of several masterful stories.
This is the short story that eventually defined the Mishima mystique. Which is the manner how he died and why. Well, the why we'll never know, but one could pick up the clues that are in this short story as well as look as his life in whole. He was a man who I think thought himself as a performer. The writing was his foundation to do other things - and I think he was so into that identity thing, he would never have ignored his 'death' impulses. It's part of his DNA at that point.
So good! Oh the writing, I loved it! I'm not sure which translation I read, but it was a free online edition and it was a beautiful, sensual read. Which is kind of weird considering what the story is about.
Masterfully written short story, equally romantic and violent. Short stories don't get better then this.
An intense and violent and astonishing story. Pure Mishima.
Jesus Christ, the last few pages of this were hard to read.
