https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6613956-the-solitude-of-prime-numbers
But, people still don't know that, people still haven't heard about Paolo Giordano and his brilliant, brilliant work called, 'The solitude of prime numbers'', which stands on the same magnificent title throne with Kundera’s, ''Unbearable lightness of being''.
And The solitude of prime numbers, easy to say, broke my heart.
In this book, in a human form of numbers, Alice and Mattia are separated from the world and from each other with layers of loneliness, personal traumas and decisions.
17 and 19 are divided by the whole world of number 18.
Trust me, read this book, please.
He's able to occupy a girl/woman's psyche as seamlessly as a man's and he shines when he's occupying interior spaces: "she had grown attached to it with the obstinacy with which people become attached only to things that hurt them." The lead characters battle with anorexia and cutting--very current, almost hip post-modern symptoms.But where was the denouement, or the arc?
The lack of completion of myriad thoughts and plot devices (SPOILER ALERT), i.e. was it indeed Michela at the hospital?
In the end Giordano uses emptiness and lack of resolution as a plot device, and I respond with the dissatisfaction I feel he should have expected.

The focus is on two main characters named Alice Della Rocca and Mattia Balossino- — two people I’ve been thinking about throughout the dark hours of my sleep last night while tossing and turning.
As I got closer to the end - very little left to read - I became more aware of the title of this book than ever — ‘something’ kept separating Mattia and Alice - yet here they were looking closer than ever towards the end ....
Non c’è stato nessuno degli opinion maker della cultura italiana, in effetti, che abbia parlato de “La solitudine dei numeri primi” come di qualcosa di appena meno significativo di un nuovo romanzo generazionale.
Paolo Giordano, con l’invidiabile piglio scientifico che gli viene da una rigorosa formazione matematica, si trasforma in austero entomologo della sfiga, costruendo un romanzo in cui i due protagonisti – due stereotipi del mal di vivere da generazione X – stanno al determinismo di Laplace come gli innamoratini di Peynet a un cartoncino di San Valentino.
Compare people to numbers, compare the loneliness of people who don't know how to belong to the otherness of prime numbers, and thus imply that there could be resolution to their alienation because it's part of a logical pattern, and if they can't belong to everyone, at least they can belong to each other.However, other than the fact that Mattia, one of the main characters, is a genius mathematician, and one passage where he introduces the concept of twin prime numbers, there's really no mention of this theme.
In addition, the characters are dull and silent at best, and selfish and unlikable at worst.
Developmental AgonyI’m not sure how this book has been marketed or how I encountered it, but it’s definitely YA not adult fiction. Lots of schmaltzy tragedy and teenage angst with a core of unlikely coincidence. Very hard going if you’re over age 21 I suspect. Definitely a waste of time for an old stump such as myself. The most significant effect of reading the thing is a feeling of vaguely regretful embarrassment for an afternoon I can’t recover. So unless you’re into mean girls, oblivious parents, eating disorders and self-harming, you’ll want to give it a miss.
Absolute disappointment.One of the worst book I've ever read.The flatness of the characters is an insult to the reader.
I can't really begin to think of an accurate way to describe the depth of solitude these two people seemingly want to seek out in their lives because it comforts them.
All I know is that I found myself relating on so many levels: in making stupid decisions, in feeling socially awkward, in being unable and unwilling to communicate true feelings, and in being paralyzed by fear.
And I couldn't help falling completely in love with Mattia, and envying numbers because of the way he described them so beautifully.
I really liked how the story took the reader through each stage of their lives.
Hay libros que estimulan la imaginación, libros que se basan en una trama apasionante, llena de viajes a lugares exóticos o de historias fabulosas, que te permiten pasarlo bien durante un rato, que te ayudan a evadirte del mundo mientras estás imbuido en ellos.
Como bien reza la contraportada, "Todo el mundo reconocerá algo de sí mismo en el libro de Giordano, pues el verdadero protagonista de esta maravillosa historia es la soledad." Todo el libro rezuma soledad y nostalgia en cada una de sus páginas.
Es una gran novela.
The early days for a detached Mattia are spoiled by a tragedy he is responsible for.
Alice, on the other hand, is an awkward child who experiences cringe worthy embarrassments at the hands of her cruel peers.
Both Mattia and Alice are deeply stunted individuals that are impossible to connect with.
This novel carries the sad reality of the messiness some people carry that obstructs the path to love and happiness.
If you're looking for a romantic, feel good novel, this is not for you.
It's a bit dark and deeply sad.
maybe in a happier novel, but...Not every book needs a happy tied ending.
3 stars....moments of heartache and a fewpassages that were beautifully written comprised about 20% of the book....the rest was not bad but full of two dimensional characters doing and saying very expected things....it was like a made for TV movie from the 1980s that had the occasional glimmer of the unusual that did not last long enough to have a major impact of the experience of the whole....
This was embarrassingly bad, and the news that it has met with broad critical acclaim is infinitely depressing.
Take two "damaged" stick figures, define each only in terms of their 'abnormality', surround them with the standard tableau of distant parents, cruel classmates.
Because this will allow you to sprinkle in some mumbo-jumbo about prime numbers which will then be taken for some kind of hugely deep meaningful symbolism.
This write-by-numbers dreck actually appeals to you?
Or did you just give it stars because the author is young and cute?
My actual rating is closer to zero stars.
Despite the glowing reviews, this book was too depressing for me.
The Italian award-winning Physicist author, Paolo Giordano, has a polished minimalist style that I admired, but the characters were, ultimately, so damaged, insular and cold that the book may well have been titled, "The Abject Loneliness of Dysfunctional People." The real title reflects the mathematical fluke of “special primes,” prime numbers that are close, such as 13 and 15, but ultimately still separate.
I wanted to like the characters – I’m usually drawn to dysfunctional protagonists - but, despite a New York Times review stating that, “Mattia and Alice emerge like ice sculptures,” these young people mired in guilt and anger did not melt my heart.
IncredibileMe l'hanno prestato, senza che lo chiedessi, anche se prevedevo che, prima o poi, ci sarei cascata, con un titolo così...
Alla fine però la mentalità scientifica si risolve in un atteggiamento maniacale e si riduce a distorsioni mentali.
I problemi sono seri, le malattie vere, di cui però sembra nessuno (pre)occuparsi.
Non sono riuscita a farmene carico.
Non ci ho letto nessuna partecipazione di cuore dell'autore.Appare poi incredibile, nel senso letterale della parola, che un medico conosca Alice, la sposi, condivida con lei la vita di tutti i giorni per anni e non si renda conto che è affetta da anoressia.Qualcosa non va!
Even worse, I found much of the book highly contrived and was unable to suspend my disbelief.I knew things were bad as I slogged through the beginning, where Alice is a crippled, anorexic teenager who manages to be both unreservedly snotty to her parents and completely cowed by the Queen Bee at her school.
Doesn’t any part of Alice hate Viola for the way she treats her even as she feels this desire to win her friendship?
Alice ends up marrying a doctor she doesn’t love (does she love anyone?
Tra i vari demeriti di questo libro, che sono tanti, troppi, ce n'è uno che è più imperdonabile di tutti gli altri, ed è la spocchia con la quale Giordano racconta la storia che racconta, la presunzione di allargarla a ritratto collettivo, in qualche modo rappresentativo di una generazione, o comunque di una parte della stessa che, per quanto frivola, per quanto danneggiata, per quanto supponente e molle, non meritava di essere trattata così, con questa superficialità, con questa piattezza.
Profondamente convinto di avere per le mani due personaggi profondi, intensi e complessi, non ne dubito, Giordano ha ritratto due fogli di carta velina ritagliandoli con le forbici per dare loro una silhouette vagamente umana, ma non basta dotare un personaggio di un compendio di tragedie a tratti quasi dickensiane per renderlo una figura vivida, per forzare l'empatia nel lettore.
The incidents of the characters' lives are blended together by the young author, Paolo Giordano, in a way that suggests their lives exist, fictionally, on the edge of reality.
The wonder of the novel is in the beautiful, even loving way that this is demonstrated.As I read I kept trying to think of the right word to describe the events of the story.
None of these words seemed to capture the feeling created by the author's prose which seemed almost poetic in the ethereal way the quotidian accidents of life were presented.
That a story of two such lives would be compelling is a tribute to the author and his novel.
This was a an oddly stark book, melancholy in tone, but heartbreakingly beautiful. I often read to escape, to feel lighter, but The Solitude of Prime Numbers added weight to my heart, almost unbearably. Reading the stories of Alice and Mattia, the two damaged souls at the heart of this book, was a pleasure, but definitely not an escape. The translation from Italian is really flawless, I did not see one sentence that seemed awkward. I read The Solitude of Prime Numbers last night, but I have a feeling I will be thinking about it for some time to come.
Não foi um livro fácil, foi antes um mergulho em águas profundas e turvas.Toda a gente conhece ou pelo menos já ouviu falar de casos como os que foram aqui expostos.
A relação de cumplicidade que partilhavam não foi suficiente para derrubar todos os muros.
Serviu para perceber a sorte que tenho.
E serviu para perceber que há dias em que também eu sou um número primo.
Também há dias em que fico com as mãos caídas.Se calhar, todos somos números primos de vez em quando.
Sostanzialmente un libro inutile.Personaggi inutili, storia non sviluppata come meritava, finale inutile all'ennesima potenza! Non ho capito dove Giordano pensava di poter accompagnare il lettore... sostanzialmente, questo libro è una tragedia dalla prima all'ultima pagina. Non c'è speranza, non c'è la scintilla, non c'è nulla!#delusione estrema
A lovely novel by a gifted author.
It is a story of a lifelong, ambiguous but inescapable relationship between a intellectually gifted but socially awkward mathematical genius, and a conflicted, anorexic woman with a great sensibility but also with a chronic incapacity to deal with her own life in a positive manner.
The characters are interesting and original, the story flows very fluently and is quite captivating, several themes are touched with balance, some insight and with no unnecessary saccharine, and the finale is close to perfect.
Note to myself: do not give too much weight to other readers' reviews before deciding on whether or not to read a book.
The Solitude of Prime Numbers broke my heart multiple times, ruthlessly.
A prime number can only be divided by one or itself.
Then there are prime numbers like 17 and 19, 41 and 43 and so on.
The thing about these numbers is that they will always, till the end of the world, be separated by a wall, a number, be it 18, 42 and many others.
These numbers can never come together in any other place.
That's their solitude.
I read this book in the my college and found myself speechless for weeks.
This is such an amazingly sad book.
Por el estilo de narrar y por los personajes solitarios, raros y marginados se me vino a la mente el mundo de Murakami, y quizá por eso enganché rápido y no solté el libro hasta la última página.Por los comentarios que leí pensé que iba a perder mi tiempo leyéndolo, suerte que no fue así.Al estar acostumbrada a finales abiertos, inconclusos y hasta dudosos no me hizo ruido que este terminara de tal manera. Además ya la premisa de "los números primos" te daba la idea de que no iba a ser un final de cuentos felices.Seguiré leyendo a Giordano.
XD )Dopo le prime 50 pagine, l'autore ci stupisce trasformando il libro da "brutto" ad "assurdo".COMPOSIZIONE:Principio attivo: cercare di suscitare lacrime nei lettori e far credere loro che sia un buon libro dato che ha vinto molti premi.- Spettacolarizzazione del dolore, disgrazie, disagi e aspetti brutti dell'esistenza: 50% (zoppia, autolesionismo, autismo, anoressia, bullismo, asocialità, cancro, momento di violenza domestica,...il tutto non legato da un nesso [psico]logico credibile: perché i protagonisti si portano avanti quel disagio per anni e non riescono a guarire?
a year later, still a solid 5 stars.I love it when I get rocked unexpectedly by a book.
Every so often, I would read a sentence ...
and realize "Wow, that was incredible" and would have to read it again.
Given that it was written originally in Italian, part of me wondered if I was missing anything in the translation-- I guess I'll never know (unless I buckle down and get working on learning Italian and get that version), but it doesn't matter ...this book kept me up at night.
how does a 27-year-old particle physicist write such a stunning work of fiction??I'm eagerly waiting for more.
1 stellina e mezzo.Dov'è il capolavoro della letteratura italiana di cui si vociferava? Io non l'ho trovato di certo in questo libro.
Paired primes become less frequent as numbers get larger.That is the mathematical truth behind Paolo Giordano's novel.He introduces the idea that people can be defined in this way: that some people are like prime numbers and cannot be defined in terms of others and cannot be adjacent to another 'prime'.
As a story of some damaged, lonely people it is quite good, with a certain haunting and sad inevitability.Does the prime number analogy work?Alice is self-obsessed, but not self defining.
She could not be considered a 'prime'.Mattia is a better candidate, but a large part of his self definition is related to his twin sister Michela.
Italialaisen Paolo Giordanon esikoiskirja Alkulukujen yksinäisyys (La solitudine dei numeri primi 2008, suom.
2010) on yksi suosikkini lukemistani kirjoista.
Giordano sai Alkulukujen yksinäisyydestä Premio Strega -palkinnon ja kirja on käännetty yli 20 kielelle.Alkulukujen yksinäisyyden (Wsoy-Aikamme kertojia) pääosissa ovat Alice, joka vammautui lapsuudessa ja Mattia, joka kadotti vammaisen siskonsa lapsena.
Molemmat ovat vaurioituneet henkisesti lapsuuden kokemuksistaan, joihin he olisivat tarvinneet pitkäaikaista tukea ja terapiaa.
Alice kärsi lisäksi ankarasta isästään, koulukiusaamisesta ja anoreksiasta.
Mattia viilteli itseään ja oli uneton.
Molemmat olivat kouluaikana masentuneita ja yksinäisiä, kunnes kohtasivat toisensa, sen jälkeen he olivat vain masentuneita.
Kirjassa Mattia toimii kuin robotti ja Alice yrittää kadota näkymättömäksi.
No me equivocaba cuando al empezarlo pensé que lo iba a devorar. Un día ha durado en mis manos. Un día aprendiendo sobre Mattia y Alice, sus defectos, su historia y su final. Me ha sabido a poco, necesitaba más
