https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/821003.When_We_Were_Very_Young
Shall I go off to South America?Shall I put out in my ship to sea?Or get in my cage and be lions and tigers?Or - shall I be only Me?Extraordinarily funny and cute, When We Were Very Young features a variety of poems by A.
A. Milne.
One of them first introduces us to Winnie-the-Pooh.While I enjoyed most of them, and love others dearly, a few didn't hold my interest and were rather unimpressive.It's one of those books that I will read to my future children, if they'll like it or not.P.S.: Can someone please tell me what is the matter with Mary Jane?Find more of my books on Instagram
This book failed me totally. It is a collection of poems. The poems have nothing to do with Christopher Robin, Winnie-the-Pooh, Piglet, Eeyore, Tiger, Owl, Kanga and Baby Roo. I do not think the poems will appeal to a child and they did not appeal to me, an adult. Skip this. It is is not made magical even by the Peter Dennis' excellent audiobook narration.
No wonder his books for children have outlived his more "serious" works.Reading these poems, I could visit Christopher Robin's pre-school world of late mornings, drowsy afternoons and exciting days spent in the nursery engaged in such momentous pursuits as naming a dormouse, catching a beetle or stalking a brownie behind the curtains.
The shadows pass,Little ones, baby ones, over the grass.If you were a cloud, and sailed up there,You'd sail on water as blue as air,And you'd see me here in the fields and say:'Doesn't the sky look green today?'Where am I going?
For people who missed Private Eye's obituary poem a couple of decades ago:Seventy-seven, shorn of his locksChristopher Robin beds down in a boxNo need to whisper, we've got past that stageChristopher Robin has died of old age
These were really cute, but I liked the second book of poems much more!
Also know this one by heart. My poor future kids are going to have A. A. Milne rammed down their throats. "Can I please have some dinner?" "REPEAT 'JAMES JAMES MORRISON MORRISON'!!!"
I decided to read the Winnie the Pooh books on a whim.
However, I recently discovered that section when I decided to read the classic Ferdinand.
While picking up Ferdinand, I saw A.A. Milne’s work and picked up the Winnie the Pooh tales and When We Were Very Young.
WWWVY is a short book of childish poems.The most memorable thing about this book wasn’t the content really.
The poems are very simple and more like nursery rhymes.
However the Introduction explains that Milne wrote these while his son was a toddler.
He wrote them as Christopher Robin experienced new things.
I've never read any Winnie-the-Pooh books but am extremely aware of what it's about. These are poems from the same author and they are extremely hit-and-miss, but those that hit are utterly wonderful.Illustrated by Ernest H. Shepard, the poems centre around young people who are in charge of their own lives and worlds. They are whimsical and very Carroll-esque in their magical and lyrical prowess. Some are droll, however, but most are nice.Blog | Instagram | Twitter | Pinterest | Shop | Etsy
Utterly charming and lovely--delightful rhythm, fun rhymes, and illustrations that fit it perfectly! This was my first introduction to A.A. Milne.
I used to sell newspapers in the island every afternoon when I was in grade school.But among the 44 poems in this book, I remember I read some like “Jonathan Joe” and I thought I liked it because of the relationship between Jonathan and his grandpa.
His first public appearance!The funny thing during that party was that we latter found out that the one asking the question also did not know the answer.So, you see, many of us here in the Philippines, did not read this book when we were young.
Ages 5 to 9!!!???Balderdash.I've been reading this book ever since my older sister Di and I discovered it in our Nana's bookcase in the early 1950's.We eventually knew just about every poem off by heart, not because we set out to achieve this noble task but merely because we just read the poems over and over and over again, delighting in their rhythms and rhymes and subjects.This is a 1938 edition.
And the now famous illustrations by Ernest Shepard are a delight.Since January 1953 Our Book has been constantly REread, because Poetry Books can NEVER be DONE WITH.
If anything, it made me love the Hundred Acre Woods and it’s weird and dear inhabitants even more.Reading this, I remember years ago when I would plop my butt down on the shaggy carpet in front of the television at eight in the morning to see what they were up to, the Heffalumps were out then.
It’s a wonderful thing isn’t it, sharing a piece of your own childhood with them and knowing that they might love it as much as you had, and still do?
LOVE LOVE LOVE this book! I used to love reading this book with my Mum and Dad. Inside is one of my favorite poems of all time...'Halfway Down'Halfway down the stairsis a stairwhere i sit.there isn't anyother stairquite likeit.i'm not at the bottom,i'm not at the top;so this is the stairwhereI alwaysstop.Halfway up the stairsIsn't upAnd it isn't down.It isn't in the nursery,It isn't in town.And all sorts of funny thoughtsRun round my head.It isn't reallyAnywhere!It's somewhere elseInstead!
While I was sad when I opened the book and found it wasn't another Winnie-the-Pooh story, instead a book of short poems by the author inspired by his son, I decided to give it a try anyway. It was pretty cute. Poetry tends not to be my thing, I find it confusing, but this book made me want to look more into it.
I've read this many times, but not recently. Still so charming and sweet.
A top notch book of children's poetry with excellent illustrations.
I think the reason that children and adults and nostalgic twenty-somethings love these poems is that they take utterly ordinary subjects-- a windy Spring day, a grumpy sibling, a quiet place in the house-- and make them extraordinary again.
Children 'get' the poems because they describe these simple things as though they were being described for the first time ever, and that's obviously how children perceive the world.
For adults the poems cast sunlight on forgotten things, forgotten ways of feeling.
I’m not sure if any other writer quite captures the lyrical simplicity and self-seriousness of a child like A.A. Milne.
He clearly remembered being and child and was sympathetic to children.
His ability to craft something as complex as a child’s meditations of self-awareness into something simple enough for a child to read and understand reminds me of Williams Carlos Williams, and yet at face value it’s still a charming book for children.
I adored A.A. Milne as a child, and I can still enjoy all of his works today!
I will certainly read his children’s books to my kids, if I ever have any.

I think I might have enjoyed it more had I read it as a kid. I read the poems to my son who liked a few of them and was indifferent towards the rest of them. Will try reading to him once he is little older to see if he likes them.
I cannot tell you how much I LOVE Milne's poetry!! One of my all-time favorites, for sure! I never tire of reading him. <3
Poetry book by the author of Winnie-the-Pooh. This book is for everybody. Words are simple and there is no difficult expression in this book. So, children can enjoy the book. To adults, this book reminds us of a child in us. The child in us is a precious thing. Our feeling such as joy, wonder and yearning come from our inner child. When we read this book, we will notice our inner child never die. It's a wonderful experience.
"And I'd say to myself as I looked so lazily down at the sea: 'There's nobody else in the world, and the world was made for me.'"This is a 'close' to liking rating, 2.85* to be precise.
If that matters or not.
I actually think there should be a better 'star rating' than this.
I didn't realise this was a poetry book for children.
I'm not really into poetry but I thought this was all right.
Spring MorningWhere am I going?
What does it matter where people go?
(I agree)Down to the wood where the blue-bells grow -Anywhere, anywhere.
I don't know."
A very sweet collection of (mostly) rhyming poems about childhood, dreaming, fantasy, and just life. Makes me want to go run barefoot through the grass and then watch clouds change shape.
Milne, A.A. When We Were Very Young (1924)As books begin to show their age, some are best weeded and forgotten, but others are meant to be preserved and cherished.
It contains childhood poems of a bygone age and culture (after all, what child now-a days has a nurse or goes to the market square with a six pence to buy a rabbit) and, like Mother Goose, the poems don’t always make much sense, but they are fun to read and recite out loud just to celebrate their catchy rhythms and rhymes.
A. Milne   I'm not sure what it says about me that I don't really like any poetry written in the last fifty years.
But it is no doubt some kind of meaningful that I have always loved Milne.***Now I read it and think about a soldier coming back from WWI and choosing to immerse himself in domestic life, writing about and for children, and I feel tremendous pity for all those poor bastards, both the ones who made it back and the ones who didn't.
I'm totally down with writing poetry and imagining the real lives of stuffed animals, and really looking very closely at a child too young to go to school.
There are some poems in here that I enjoyed.
Admittedly one of them, "Disobedience," is mainly because of its association with Pamela Dean's Secret Country trilogy.
"Vespers" I have a soft spot for, but mainly because of its association with The Last Hot Time.
(Having identified something as the probable source of a reference in something else always gives me a pleased-with-myself feeling.) "The Wrong House" is not without its charms.
But many of the poems here are rather nursery-rhyme-ish.
That may be a problem unique to this edition, though.I would probably rate this 2.5 if I could, but I can't, so I won't.
I really enjoyed this collection of poems, although I did expect another Winnie the Pooh story at first. It's lovely writing though, capturing that essence of childhood and growing up without being patronising. Also, the illustrations are just gorgeous!
My experience with A.
A. Milne is somewhat backward from most people, I think.
I first encountered him with his poem “The Knight Who’s Armor Didn’t Squeak”.
Years later I learned about Winnie the Pooh.His understanding of the way little children think and behave makes it obvious that he spent a great deal of time with his own child, observing his behavior.This is a collection of his poetry about being young and experiencing the world and it is absolutely brilliant.
It will only take about half an hour to read it and I suggest anybody who wants to understand children should do so.
Precious. Only a few of the poems were really funny and had a good flow, I feel. There rest were too short or disjointed. It wasn't awful, but I feel that it relies heavily on sentiment. I know for myself that I never would have picked it up had it not been written by A.A. Milne. It was a quick, easy read, but it was "just ok".
An adorable collection of poetry verses for kids of all ages! Also loved the cute illustrations.
