https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/9263.Stand_Still_Like_the_Hummingbird
The closest thing to a Bible I've ever owned, my copy is dog-eared, stained and well traveled. Miller's genius lies in his philosophies, not in his prose - he's an ideas man, and here his ideas are perhaps at their most focused. It is this text that I turn to when I need to be reminded that life is to be enjoyed, even when it does not happen on my terms.
Top three books of all time. I can't get enough of this book. I've lent it out so many times and I just keep buying it. Just writing this makes me want to pick it up.
Better than what I expected. A lot of these essays are just the ramblings of another beatnik who just can't live unless the rest of the world knows how much of a brooding nonconformist he is. But there are a few really good essays in here that make it worth reading, particularly the title essay.
Having read several of Miller's books in the past, this collection of essays marked, for me, a growth point in Miller's creative genius. He is more mature, more aware of life and its vulnerability, more philosophical. If you like Miller (really like him), you will enjoy this book. If you don't like much past the two Tropics, you will probably have a hard time with this book. For the record, the two Tropics are my least favorite books of his.
Or is he both?I have just finished reading a book of his essays, reviews, and prefaces entitled Stand Still Like the Hummingbird (1962) and find myself alternately idolizing and deploring the man’s work.
The ones I have seen are pretty good, and I shouldn’t be surprised if the author likes the act of pure creativity involved in coming up with these scenes, which he does not paint from life.In the end, I see Henry Miller as, at times, gifted by his muses—and at other times merely producing when the muses aren’t present.
This book has elemts of both Henrys.
Several of the more remarked-on pieces here do fall under that charge, including "Money and How it Gets That Way," an unsuccessful attempt at both sardonic humor and sociology in the form of a whisk through the history of currency in Culture, and "When I Reach for My Revolver," a bitter comment on the paucity of big-c-Culture in America as compared to the continent, which he cannot help but leave and return-to yearly.He is at his best here when he manages a simple, direct sweetness free of irony and anxiety.
Of these few pieces--including a worthwhile review of George Dibbern's Quest--his appreciation of Sherwood Anderson rates the highest.
A wonderful collection of cultural critiques, metaphysical quandaries, and words of wisdom from a truly great writer.
Miller's independence in thought and prose radiates through the stories, supplying a definite amount of poise and a good kick in the pants for any reader.
Most of the writings are quite short and digestible, allowing one to skip around from piece to piece easily.
While the collection was quite good, I would not recommend this volume of Miller to a reader just beginning to peruse this great man.
Check out his two first novels, then maybe see what made the freak tick.
I deeply adored this book.
It's the kind of book that I think when I re-read it, I'll discover new things to love.
I want to recommend this book to about 5 completely different people.
I want to talk about it.
I want to book club it.
I want to take it camping and re-read the parts about Walden.
I want to find an economist and laugh with them over the essay about money, and how it got that way.
With the presidential race, and Brexit it also felt oddly timely.
This is a collection of some of Henry Miller's best writing, covering topics in philosophy, art, literature, and the state of the world, post-WWII.
But most striking parts to me were when Miller went deep.
After 70 years in the world, Miller has plenty to say.
I've also accidentally spilled water on it and the cover has entirely come loose — it's safe to say this book is now thoroughly mine.
It's a book I will need to come back to again when I inevitably veer of course.
I recently made the mistake of again buying a book that intrigued me, and finding out I had read it before, but then deciding to read again.
In this case it’s Henry Miller’s Stand Still Like The Humminhbird.
Miller is a best known for his ribald scatalogical novels, but has written a number of wonderful non-fiction books about his travels and his philosophy of life.
Something of a hodgepodge, often times both tedious but literally wonderful.
Reading the book is like digging for precious golden nuggets of insight and beautiful poetic writing in what can be otherwise long stretches of overly erudite overlong repetitious prose.
But it was real life and not the life he imagined...and not very exhilarating.The best lines come from the introduction...while they're great, this fact isn't a great sign.When you find you can go neither backward nor forward, when you discover that you are no longer able to stand, sit or lie down, when your children have died of malnutrition and your aged parents have been sent to the poorhouse or the gas chamber, when you realize that you can neither write nor not write, when you are convinced that all the exits are blocked, either you take to believing in miracles or you stand still like the hummingbird.
Was disappointed by this collection despite a few of the essays being fantastic I ended up skipping more than I read. The longest essay, concerning money, was exceptionally dated and inaccurate and too many of the others repeated Mr Miller's basic philosophy - live for oneself. I suspect that my watching Henry & June did not help my mood.I was also frustrated by the lack of dating for most of the essays.
Miller is an amazing author and in this collection one can see how he might have come to be that way.
Here we see what Miller read on his own time and whom he revered.
Thoreau, Whitman, Patchen- many of my favorites are talked of and studied by miller in this volume.
"Walt Whitman" is the most personal I have seen.
"Children of the Earth" is intelligent and life-affirming ( much like the rest of Miller's essays).
This essay was particular poignant for me, reaffirming thoughts embracing the brillance of life, even at it's worst moments.
A lust for life.
I simply am not interested in all of this book.
There are some fantastic lines:..every moment; every sin already carries grace within it.The greatest revolutions known to man had their inception in moments of silence.Creator and creation are one and indivisible.Man is in revolt against himself.
How can he overthrow himself?Man has his being not in a vacuum of historical facts, but in a realm of magic and mystery.
Only in the myth does he have courage to acknowledge the glory of his origin, the power of his spirit.Are we not all victims of fear and anxiety precisely because we lack faith and trust in one another?
A highly enjoyable selection of essays, book reviews, forewords, satire, and Henry Miller just writing. It is not nearly as preoccupied with sex as his novels, and allows us to see different sides of him, including some very powerful statements about humanism, art, society, and other problems. His appreciation of Thoreau is wonderful, although it follows his brief essay about Whitman in which he uses the same distinctive quotation from D.H. Lawrence, which makes for a jarring repetition. Minor quibbles notwithstanding this is a fine batch of writing
Don't get me wrong, I love Miller's novels, but this collection of essays simply doesn't carry any of their charm or extravagance. The problem lies in the lack of cohesion, the essays are very self-contained but the winding road this book leads you down just doesn't bring you to any truly worthwhile destination. For Miller fans, there is definitely some worthwhile stuff here (like his chapter on Money and various political sections) but it's wedged between banal veneration of very popular (and some not so much) artists and writers. I'd say this is for well read Miller fans only.
This book contains a number of Henry Miller's short writings and essays; they are some of his most accessible and affecting works, and this book was a gateway for me to his larger volumes. It makes me want to drink whiskey and punch the moon out of the sky, and laugh as the tidal waves sweep away all evidence of the constructs of man and his society. On a side note, there's a handful of lines from these essays that have been paraphrased (and nearly lifted verbatim) by Jeff Tweedy from Wilco.
A collection of essays, articles and stories by Henry Miller. Unfortunately, most of these works were reviews of obscure people or other works - or oppositely, praise for all-too-well-known figures like Thoreau or Ianesco. Most of the articles on topics like money, morals or (as most of them) himself come off outdated, preachy and plain curmudgeonly. Miller is far more eloquent and angrily existential in his books.
Reading Henry Miller is, to me, one of life's truly great pleasures. The joy Miller got out of living, and out of relating his life through his writing, is a palpable thing, easily consumed as I read. The essays collected here are one of the most direct distillations of that joy. One of my favorites by one of my favorites.
I picked up Miller after having read Nin and discovering that they had a rather passionate literary and romantic relationship. From his writing, I imagine Miller with a swagger, with a smart-ass personality. Again, this is another book I packed with me from the States, and it's still sitting on my shelf. Maybe I feel guilty that I wasn't able to get into it. Will try again soon.
We were at a wedding at the Henry Miller Library in Big Sur last weekend, and couldn't resist getting a book. This is a series of essays collected out of chronological order, but loosely by theme. The first two are fantastic ruminations on no less a topic than the meaning of life - perfect for summer!
I love reading what Henry Miller thinks about things. His view is so open, his opinion so logical, and his prose so erudite and direct. He was a very deep person who obviously thought a lot about everything.
A collection of essays in the Miller vein, about the struggles of the artist and the decline of western civilization. One of those books that is wonderful if you like Henry Miller (but maybe a bit tedious and repetitive if you don’t).
I hate to give Miller anything less than five stars, but despite the brilliant prose, the late-in-life Miller, after finding god/"the creator," interests me a lot less. I confess I could not abide the very long chapter on the history of currency, and gave up on it.
I learned that I am not really into Henry Miller. It is difficult for me to concentrate on what he is writing. Perhaps it's because I am coming out of 7 years of schooling and am tired of extreme focused effort while reading. I will try again some other day since he is my sister's favorite author.
The commentary was repetitive at times, and so many chapters focused on artists, authors, and playwrights that were so niche-based in their times, that I found myself disinterested with the text nearly as often as I was fully engaged with the text.
Some of the chapters kind of drag on, but the good ones (My Life As An Echo, Quest, The Immortality of Morality, To Read or Not To Read, and First Love) make this book a must read.
Oooooooh, just can't wait!
complex and confident
henry miller is so fucking smart it makes me want to give up.
