https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/40647345-need-to-know
When Vivian manages to access the computer of a Russian operative, it should be cause for celebration, but the discovery will threaten everything that she holds dear, and will put not only her own life in danger, but also those of her husband and four children!Wow!
Just wow!
How easy it was for Vivian's life to turn completely upside down with just a couple of clicks on her computer.
Just be prepared to share in Vivian's sheer terror as events increasingly overtake her life.
Vivian and I probably have very little in common however we are both mothers and I could just relate so well to her need to protect her children at all costs.....Truthfully when I first read the blurb to this book I wasn’t all that interested, just The idea of the CIA was a turn off.....
fortunately I read some very favorable reviews from people that I trust the opinions of and decided I’d take a chance on this book.....
I even found the spy stuff super intriguing and very authentic.....I believe the plan is to turn this book into a movie?
5 stars - Not just “Need to Know” but also “Need to READ” 🌟 🌟 🌟 🌟 🌟 Need to Know came highly recommended from several of my Goodreads friends.
I also think this went beyond the typical spy story because Need to Know was family-driven.
Vivian and Matt’s children were adorable and very much in the forefront of the story.I’m walking a tightrope on what I want to tell you so I don’t spoil anything.
Even if you don’t typically enjoy spy or political thrillers, this is a fantastic read!
I love that this is a straight up spy thriller that isn't bogged down with too much analyst mumbo jumbo.
Vivian and her team are hard at work trying to bring down some suspected Russian sleeper agents planted in the U.S. Vivian is excellent at her job and what she sees on her laptop when she clicks on a secret file of a Russian agent she is investigating takes her breath away!
The story takes off and doesn't stop until the last word which took my breath away.
I read this straight through and really look forward to the author's next book.
4.5 stars, rounded up.Wow, this was so good!If you're looking for a suspenseful thriller that will keep you guessing, one that seems tailor-made for the movies, look no further and pick up Karen Cleveland's Need to Know. (In fact, the film rights have already been sold to Universal Pictures for Charlize Theron.)Vivian Miller has the perfect life—a handsome, supportive husband, a challenging job as a CIA analyst, and four beautiful kids. Sure, with her career moving at breakneck speed she's not
Sure, with her career moving at breakneck speed she's not at home as often as she'd like, so she's missing key moments in her children's lives, but she's doing important work that impacts the country, as she tries to track down a Russian sleeper cell here in the U.S. It's what she has been working for, and success means a big promotion.One day, in the midst of some surveillance on the laptop of someone believed to be a handler of Russian spies, she makes a discovery that takes her breath away and turns everything upside down.
I really didn’t need to know about this book. While I didn’t hate it, I certainly didn’t love it. And, it’s not just that CIA counterintelligence analysts and Russian sleeper cells aren’t my usual fare. At the end of the first chapter I thought, “now we’re cooking with oil” but it just didn’t pan out for me. Based on the reviews I had read I was hoping Need to Know would be as exciting and surprising as the first season of The Showtime series Homeland. Unfortunately, it was predictable so I’m going to classify this book as Homeland lite.
What she sees turns her life and her family in danger.
Everything that matters to Vivian, her job, her family are threatened.Who can she trust?
Her life is torn apart, she tries to do her best for her family and her country.
I usually do not like spy thrillers, but this one is so different than others.
This kept me turning the pages.
It was an addictive read.I found this to be very realistic and very intense.
I kept on wanting more.
The author used to be a CIA Analyst and I think that is why this book felt so realistic.
Wow – I simply devoured this book!
I felt like I was holding my breath the entire time waiting to see what would happen in the next sentence, paragraph, page, chapter….
I was drawn right into this story from page 1.
My initial thought was to give a 4.5 rating due to a few slightly impractical details, but the book was just SO good that I can’t give this anything less than 5 stars!
I’ll keep this review short and simply advise you to get your hands on a copy of this novel ASAP!
3.5 Vivian has been married to Tom for many years, they have four children together, the last two a set of twins, one that has medical problems.
What she sees will change her life, and those of her family.I enjoyed this, liked Vivian, she struggles so hard to keep things together, find a way out and keep her family intasct and safe.
Maybe that was why I wasn't too surprised by some of the revelations.
The ending though was surprising, and a nice touch.
Definitely leaves the reader wondering.
So a mixed read for this reader.ARC from Edelweiss.
Just read that this is being made into a movie, with Charlize Theron playing the lead, Vivian.
This will play out well on the silver screen!***Whether you are into political thrillers or not, I highly recommend you grab this book, as it is so much more than that!
I typically shy away from this genre, unless it comes highly recommended or has high ratings, which this absolutely does.
What really got me hooked was how the author was able to create such suspense, tension and paranoia.
I was right there with Vivian, questioning everything I was reading.
The payoff will come in the way of uncovering Russian sleeper cells operating in the U.S..
Signed, sealed, and delivered wrapped up in the red, white, and blue.As Vivian clicks on a folder entitled "Friends", she gets a paralyzing shock that leaves her breathless.
And at the core of all this is the deep, deep reality of her heavy-duty job that will shine a light on her family and the protection of the country at large.Need to Know is a fast-paced thriller lined with untruths.
The story is told from the point of view of Vivian and it gives you a glimpse into the everyday life of a CIA analyst.
The author worked for the CIA for a few years and the novel is being adapted into a movie.Overall, I enjoyed the story and highly recommend the novel to readers of thrillers and contemporary fiction.Thanks to NetGalley, the author, and the publisher for providing me with a copy of this publication in exchange for an honest review.
But I saw a lot of positive reviews on GR about this book and decided to take a chance.
Vivian Miller is a CIA counterintelligence agent searching for Russian sleeper spies in the US.
In truth, this book isn’t so much a spy thriller.
This book really grabbed me.
I felt all the tension and angst that Vivian felt.
This is a book that you just want to keep reading.
I had to know how it was going to play out.
The whole time I was reading this, this old adage kept going through my brain...
The author Karen Cleveland was an actual CIA analyst, which made the professional aspects much more intriguing for me.• ↑ That was basically me the entire time I was reading this book!
I ended up accepting it and actually started cheering on her bad choices, because I wanted to see what the consequences would be!• Vivian feels guilty about all the time she's missed out on with her four young kids.
I love when an author presents me with a difficult situation and makes me see how hard it can be to make the "right" choice.
This spy thriller novel is now on sale!A CIA counterintelligence analyst investigating Russian sleeper spies finds a face she never expected in a hidden file, and her world is immediately turned upside down.
Viv has developed an algorithm for identifying people who are likely suspects for being Russian spy handlers, based on education, their banking practices, travel to and contacts with Russia, and so on.
And in fact, once she's able to hack into Yury's laptop, she finds a file labeled "Friends" in Russian, with five images of people who could be in Yury's cell of sleeper spies.
2 Stars Need to Know, revolves around our naive but also idiotic CIA counterterrorism analyst Vivian and her family of a billion kids and her shady ass husband Matt.
The entire novel then becomes about Vivian analyzing her entire relationship with her husband cue the many love-y dove-y flashbacks and then deciding the best way to deal with this problem is to just delete it and then empty the trash.
It's like being aware you suck and then not changing or evolving isn't really helpful; this entire book was just me wishing Vivian was real so I could slap her.
I suspect that given the lack of detail, the endless talking in circles and the oddly robotic characters, a big name movie cast might be the only thing that can save this admittedly fast-moving novel from mediocrity but as it stands Need to Know is a disappointment.The story centres around happily married couple of ten years, Vivian and Matt Miller and their four young children living in the suburbs of Washington D.C. As a CIA counterintelligence analyst, narrator Vivian is dedicated to her work and despite working long hours she is satisfied and well aware of how much her flexible, encouraging and supportive software engineer husband Matt brings to the combined family unit.
On track for a much-needed promotion, she’s developed a system for identifying Russian agents, seemingly normal people living in plain sight.After accessing the computer of a potential Russian operative, Vivian stumbles on a secret dossier of deep-cover agents within America’s borders.
You can really relate to what Vivian actually does and doesn't do during the book.I often find books featuring espionage go either one or two ways - either really tedious and like wading through mud in reading terms...or superb, authentic feeling and i am pleased to say this was the latter.
The Hook - Recommendation by Michael Kindness, voracious reader and Sales Rep for Penguin Random House, in an interview on Book Cougars Podcast, Episode 39 hosted by Chris Wolak and Emily Fine.
Vivian Miller works the Russian Desk of the CIA.
When Vivian finds a picture of her husband Matt in a group of five suspected Russian Sleeper Agents, she is stunned.
The clues to the answers are there if you read between the lines.Did I like Need to Know?
(hide spoiler)]I’ll read Vivian Miller’s next adventure, as I believe there will be one, if only to see what’s up next.
The main character is a woman so mind-numbingly STUPID and easily manipulated that she is an incompetent CIA agent who lets her emotions get the better of her.
Russia doesn't need all those sleeper cells if the USA is full of emotional, incompetent agents like this.
Apparently when push comes to shove, women just turn into traitors.
That when push comes to shove, we'll just throw country and loyalty and oaths overboard for the husband or kids.
WHY WHY WHY do we have to be shown in such a light all the time?!Can I please for once read a book with a competent, strong woman who doesn't just do idiotic things?
This was a tense novel that keeps the reader totally engaged in the intrigue and cunning that goes on in the spy business.
Ms Cleveland keeps the action, suspense, and intrigue going all the way up to the end with lots of twists and turns.
The spy system of our country and others is extremely sophisticated and these agencies know our deepest secrets and use them to their advantage.
I highly recommend this book if you are a lover of spy, suspense, and the biting of nails type reader.
⭐⭐⭐⭐⭐ / 5 Happy pub date to this beauty of a book! I absolutely L-O-V-E-D this spy thriller. Need to Know was a real page turner. Espionage and a whoooooooole lot of secrets. The story jumps between current day and goes back to when Vivian and her husband Matt first met. It continues on through them having kids, and experiences they have had together. I loved that the book jumps back and forth, and it really gives great background on both Vivian and Matt. I think the characters are very well-dev
I loved that the book jumps back and forth, and it really gives great background on both Vivian and Matt.
However, I can definitely tell that she is a former CIA analyst!
I love when authors write about what they know, and I think it really shines through in this book.
I was a tiny bit frustrated with Vivian as the book progressed, but I can't tell you why because I don't want to give anything away!
Final Thought: This book is a definite MUST READ in my opinion.
With all the thrillers coming out lately, this book was incredibly new and different.
I have been enthralled with the idea of Russian sleeper cells and the real/not-real dilemma any relationships that might form as they try to assimilate into American lives ever since seeing the first season of “The Americans.” And this AMAZING offering by Karen Cleveland absolutely lived up to everything I had hoped for.Without giving too much away, because half the fun of this novel is the clever way Cleveland whips you around one shocking corner after the next, Vivian is an analyst working for the CIA on a project to uncover Russian sleeper cells—Russians who have been posing as Americans and can speak fluently with no accent.
I was on edge right there with her, thinking through what I would have done in that situation.Once her decision is made, it was a matter of figuring out whether her husband, Matt, could be believed and trusted.
I certainly can remember things said to me in my past.I think I have a healthy sense of skepticism and a pretty good bullshit meter.
So I accepted Viv's actions and went along for the ride.The book does become a bit predictable as the resolution draws near, but I did enjoy the story.
All in all, this is a good debut and I’d read Karen Cleveland's next book.
In one of her assignment she finds a folder with "friends" name on it but what she sees in the folder spins her whole world, threaten her life, her work and her family!
How can she save her family!
How can she choose between her family and her country!?
I don’t know why I waited so long to read it, maybe because I’m not really into the political thrillers!?!
It’s just that I was hoping for a different ending!
It’s a standalone novel.
Overall, I had a good time with this one and hope you like it as well!
I'm sure that this book will be made into a movie, a cheesy Lifetime network movie.
If CIA agents really behave this way then perhaps "draining the swamp" is actually called for.
Vivian Miller is a CIA counterintelligence analyst searching for leaders of Russian sleeper cells in the US.
Wouldn't it be nice if she spoke and could read Russian?
A woman who should be intelligent behaves like a dithering, easily manipulated idiot throughout the entire book.
I disliked everything about this book - no suspense, predictable twists and an ending that is no surprise at all.
I received a free copy of this book from the publisher.
I have read this book.That ending though.Highly Recommended.Sorry that is all I can tell you if I value my life....
NEED TO KNOWKAREN CLEVELANDMY RATING ⭐⭐⭐⭐⭐PUBLISHER Ballantine BooksPUBLISHED January 23, 2018A heart-wrenching counterintelligence thriller that is impossible to put down. SUMMARYVivian Miller is a CIA counterintelligence analyst trying to identify Russian sleeper cells and their handlers. She's getting close. And then she find something total unexpected when hacking into a suspect’s computer. A picture of her husband labeled as “friend”. Viv and Matt been married ten fabulous years and have fo
Viv and Matt been married ten fabulous years and have four young children.
She confronts Matt with the accusation and he volunteers he's been a deep cover operative for the Russians for 22 years.
This is a fabulous debut novel by KAREN CLEVELAND, who worked as a CIA analyst for eight years.
She knows of what she writes!I was so emotional invested in the book.
Where do you turn when the person you trusted the most has been lying to you for years?
Thanks to Netgalley, Ballantine Books and Karen Cleveland for an advanced reading copy in exchange for an honest review.
I received a free electronic copy of Need To Know by Karen Cleveland from NetGalley for my honest review.This is an edge of your seat spy thriller.
I loved the details and intensity that Karen Cleveland writes with.
Vivian Miller, CIA analyst who tracks Russian sleeper cells loves her job, has four beautiful children and a wonderful husband, Matt.
One day Vivian's whole live changes when she comes across a picture of someone she knows.
The more she digs, the deeper she gets and the more she doesn't know who to trust.
I really need to thank my Goodreads friends for writing such stellar reviews for this novel because I would of never requested this one otherwise.
Political thrillers just aren't my thing.
I saw this on NetGalley and kept passing it by but then all the reviews started pouring in and I became intrigued.
I am glad I did or I was going to miss out on an amazing thriller.
This is a fast paced wild ride right to the very end.
And that ending,WOW, best epilogue EVER!READ THIS BOOK!!!!Thank you to NetGalley for proving me with a digital ARC in exchange for my honest review.
