https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/375272.Hungry_Hearts
This is a collection of short stories by Anzia Yezierska, of whom I was a die-hard fan in my early 20's.
I liked her novels better, but all her writing is the same: set amongst Jews of the Lower East Side and featuring a female protagonist desperate to get out.
The best and longest story in this collection is "The Fat of the Land," and it won "Best Short Story of 1920" and was made into a film.
But the quote I remember best was from another of her stories about heartbreak: "I've breathed the air from the high places where love comes from, and I can't no more come down."
There aren't enough stars to rate this work and I don't think this is a work that should be rated. I will however give it the highest number in the currently popular star rating system, FIVE.Attaching stars to this book though feels like I'm sullying her and her author.If I were told that I could only have ten books for the rest of my life, this would be one of them.
Tales of immigrant women. The better ones explore domestic settings or interactions with do-gooders.
I read about 2/3 of the book.
The author wrote in the early 20th century about the immigrant experience, probably most Jewish, probably set in New York.
The book is made up of a number of stories, each about different characters.
Each story is about an immigrant with a "hunger" hence the title.
The stories are very sad and affecting.
The atmosphere is chaotic, with many of the characters living with a panicky desperation as they worry about finding their place in America and often about also finding love.
I'm glad I read what I read but there was a sameness to the stories that wore me down.
I received this book through a Goodreads Giveaway contest!Contrary to what the stars say, I actually enjoyed this collection of short stories.
I recommend this book to those who enjoy short stories.
I recommend this book to anyone who wants to understand the immigrant experience (which is truly something I think many Americans need to understand).
But more importantly, if you're planning on reading this book, appreciate and recognize that this is the JEWISH immigrant experience, which is in my opinion the most important element of this book.
Yezierska wrote these stories in the late 1910s, and this collection was published in 1920.
The stories are quite raw in that they are unvarnished, and show what the life of the immigrant was in the early 20th century.
The stories are uneven, but "The Fat of the Land," about an immigrant mother whose children made good, was so beautifully captured it and rendered so clearly, it gave me new insight into the dilemmas of immigrant parents.
That story alone makes the collection worth reading (or just go straight to this story!).
A very readable collection of short stories about immigrants in New York in the early part of the 1900s.
The women who populate these stories are all searching for themselves and for their piece of the American dream that they bet on when they left their villages in Poland and Russia to come to New York.
The women now find themselves barely scraping by while trying to break free from the poverty and daily grind of children and sweatshops.
I found the characters compelling and their voracious desires for bigger, more real lives to be both heart-wrenching and yet surprisingly optimistic.
3.5 Stars.In general, short stories aren't my favorite thing to read, but I enjoyed this collection. The author did a great job of capturing the immigrant experience and of writing about different experiences. There were some stories that I enjoyed a lot more than other, but I didn't dislike any of them. I would definitely recommend this collection to people who enjoy short stories.Received from NetGalley.
Falling under the genre of "working girl's fiction," these stories are all about Eastern European immigrants in New York in the 1920. As the title implies, all of the characters are hungry for various things: to be an American, to be educated, to be loved, etc. Very readable, I enjoyed it very much. Interesting side note: apparently Yezierska was the first author to use Yiddish expressions in her characters' dialogue. Hm! The things you learn when you read the introduction!
America Still CallsAmazing short stories, full of heart and grit. A new learning experience for me about immigrant Jews from Russia & Poland. Heart breaking and lovely all at once.
Yezierska always comes through.
Interesting stories of the immigrant experience. I received this book as part of the good reads program.
Excellent. A powerful evocative voice.
"Hungry Hearts" was Anzia's first book. See my rating for "The Open Cage."
Love the messages in this book, and the stories are all really humbling. The writing tended to be melodramatic, though.
A touching collection of stories that capture the immigrant experience. I received this book from the goodreads program.
Perhaps it's my own family connection to the stories, but Yezierska's work touches me. I find her stories fascinating, and her protagonists heartbreaking.
This is about as saccharine and sentimental as it gets.
Optimistic writing, despite the sometimes sombre themes.
overall i thought this book was pretty good...it's a collection of short stories dealing with the lives of Jewish immigrant women. Some of the stories i thought were really good, others not so...
You. Read. Now. Short story collection.
ARC: NetgalleyAn intimate glimpse into the lives of Jewish immigrants in the early 1900's. I love books from this time so this was right up my alley.

I probably would never have heard of Yezierska had she not been on the Virago Modern Classics list which I’m making my way through.
I was quite looking forward to seeing what her writing style would be like, particularly after being so intrigued by the blurb of Hungry Hearts and Other Stories.
Inside its interlinked stories, I found some incredibly interesting musings on time, place and community, and I liked the author’s thoughts and comments about forging a new identity in a foreign country.
Hungry Hearts and Other Stories is not the best short story collection I’ve ever read by any means, but it was quite interesting nonetheless.
