https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/39662.Different_Seasons
I've watched the movie so many times that I can quote passages of it from heart, and I'm not really a TV watcher.
To this reader the movie is a bit darker than Stephen King's story.
This story is about Hope..it's about picking yourself up every single day and keeping moving..it's about Redemption.
This quote is in the afterword of the book, where Mr. King tells how he got typed as a horror author..not that there is anything wrong with that.I've been in love with these stories, too, and a part of me always will be in love with them, I guess.
Stephen King's best work. I dare anyone to say otherwise.
This book is PERFECT King!
Each story is interesting and special in its own right.
At least two of them ("Rita Hayworth and The Shawshank Redemption" and "The Body") are must read classics that were turned into equally great movies.
Apt Pupil might be a little less accessible to some, but is one of King's best character studies.
The Breathing Method is one of his shortest novellas, but wildly creative and is guaranteed to leave you saying, "WOAH!"Every King fan should have read this already.
Looking to get into King for the first time?
This is a great place to start!
He wrote "Rita Hayworth and Shawshank Redemption", "Apt Pupil", "The Body" & "The Breathing Method" as unpublishable novellas right after the completion of one novel each "with just enough gas left in the tank." Wow.More than any pop culture writer, King is almost never a boring or dull read.
(*Ok, just for fun: I've read CARRIE, THE STAND, CUJO, CHRISTINE, PET SEMETARY, CYCLE OF THE WEREWOLF, IT, EYES OF THE DRAGON, MISERY, THE TOMMYKNOCKERS, DARK TOWER #4, THE DARK HALF, NEEDFUL THINGS, GERALD'S GAME, DOLORES CLAIBORNE, INSOMNIA, DESPERATION, THE GREEN MILE, THINNER, THE REGULATORS, NIGHT SHIFT, DIFFERENT SEASONS, FOUR PAST MIDNIGHT, NIGHTMARES AND DREAMSCAPES, CREEPSHOW, BAG OF BONES, EVERYTHING'S EVENTUAL, THE GIRL WHO LOVED TOM GORDON, CELL, LISEY'S STORY, DR.
FANTASTIC!!I knew going into this book that I’ve seen movies for two of the stories.
I thought, “Since I’ve seen the movies, do I need to read the actually book?”And that’s a resounding YES.
A big HELL YES!1st story: Rita Hayworth and the Shawshank RedemptionI’m sure most of us have seen this movie at least once or 50 times in your life.
It was the weakest of the 4 stories but was still decent.If you’ve ever wondered whether Stephen King is a good storyteller, read this book!
Well......WOW! These four LONG-short stories are ALL fabulous! RITA HAYWORTH AND SHAWSHANK REDEMPTION - 5 Stars  "Get busy living or get busy dying." Everyone has probably seen the movie adaptation or read the book by now and knows the story about the wrongful imprisonment of banker Andy Dufresne, the horror of "the sisters" and his best friend at Shawshank Red, but if you haven't, you are so fortunate to have this amazing read ahead of you.The novel provides a bit more detail here and there abo
Todd Bowden wants to be a P.I. when he grows up and is off to quite a start as he sleuths out a criminal of the most vile kind; and as his true unsettling nature begins to surface, our creepy apt pupil gets a whole lot more than he bargained for when he goes up against the master.Dark and powerfully evil, this unique story even has a cool Andy Dufresne tie-in, but dam.....why couldn't the butcher from hell stick to humans.....minus 50 basis points!THE BODY (re-read) - 5 Stars - Four young lads head out on an adventure to see 'the dead body' but what they find is trouble and a few hard lessons learned.
I'm told the film is a classic and I know some people who've seen the film and read the story – they all seem to prefer the celluloid version!
Surprisingly, King is able to invests the whole thing with a degree of warmth (though perhaps no surprise to anyone who has read  The Green Mile) and it had me desperately hoping he'd thought up a happy ending to this sometimes brutal tale.Apt PupilSixteen-year-old student Todd Bowden has discovered that a Nazi war criminal, Kurt Dussander, has been quietly living in Todd’s home town.
و في رحلة العودة احتلت مكاني بجانب النافذة في الكابينة المغلقة التي تتسع ستة افراد...و دخل رفقاء السفر : أربعة في سن 18متبايني الاشكال ..أخرجت رواية كينج المكونة من 4نوفيلات و كنت قد قرات ثلثي القصة الاولى الخلاص من شاوشنك  https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...
بدأت Apt pupil  https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...هنا دخل مفتش التذاكر ..نحن كنا في السن الذي يدفع أعلى ثمن للتذاكر 45 يورو لو قطعتها من هناك..و 90 لو قطعتها من مصر عبر شركة سياحة"سرقة صريحة" فنحن تحت الستين و فوق 26 أخذ يطابق اسماءنا و اعمارنا من الجوازات على التذاكر..فهي شخصية في قطار اوروبا..و اخرج اصدقاؤنا جوازاتهم السحرية و تذاكرهم ..لتظهر ابتسامة المفتش..و بالطبع لم يفتح الجوازات.

Some books stay with me clearly even months later; others start to fade as soon as I turn the final page (if not before).Stephen King’s Different Seasons is a fascinating case, because I got to see how one story haunted me while I went on to the next.Published in 1982, it was King's first book of non-genre fiction.
My story sounds so much like a fairytale that it’s fucking absurd.I sold the book and it was made into a movie and the movie got good reviews and it was a smash hit besides.
Different seasons, Stephen KingDifferent Seasons (1982) is a collection of four Stephen King novellas with a more serious dramatic bent than the horror fiction for which King is famous. The four novellas are tied together via subtitles that relate to each of the four seasons. The collection is notable for having had three of its four novellas turned into Hollywood films, one of which, The Shawshank Redemption, was nominated for the 1994 Academy Award for Best Picture.Novellas: "Rita Hayworth and
The collection is notable for having had three of its four novellas turned into Hollywood films, one of which, The Shawshank Redemption, was nominated for the 1994 Academy Award for Best Picture.Novellas: "Rita Hayworth and Shawshank Redemption", "Apt Pupil", "The Body", "The Breathing Method".تاریخ نخستین خوانش: روز دهم ماه آگوست سال 2006 میلادیعنوان: فصول گوناگون: داستانی زمستانی؛ اثر: استیون کینگ؛ برگردان: ماندانا قهرمانلو؛ مشخصات نشر: تهران، نشر قطره، 1384، در 992 صفحه، فروست: سلسله انتشارات نشر قطره 667؛ هنر و ادبیات جهان 113، شابک: 9643415589؛ مجموعه داستان فصول گوناگون، شامل چهار داستان، در چهار سبک، با حال و هوا و موضوعات متفاوت است، که در سال 1982 میلادی نگاشته شده است.
King made the best use of the material with uncharacteristic restraint in terms of page length and, I again feel the need to stress, great dialogue and straightforward prose.We get to know Andy Dufresne indirectly, through the eyes of Red, the hardened con who can get you anything you need for a price: He was a short, neat little man with sandy hair and small, clever hands.
Through Gordie, Stephen Kings talks not only about his adolescence, but also about writing (“When you don’t know what happens next, that’s the end.”), dreams, family, growing old.
Hope can set you free."Considered by many to be King's best collection of stories/novellas, Different Seasons contains two stories that were ultimately developed into two of the greatest movies of all-time: The Body, which became Stand by Me, of course, and Rita Hayworth and Shawshank Redemption - the movie is obvious, no?Sometimes I really hate reading an awesome Stephen King book...
Having read most of King's epic stories, I thought I'd seen King at this best - but no, this is his best.
Yet this story is absorbing, once it hooks you in, you can't get back out.The horrific nature of Apt Pupil is swiftly followed by the nostalgic novella, The Body.
If you want to read King at his finest, then read this."Different Seasons" is a collection of four novellas, each of which he has written after the conclusion of his four earliest novels.
Out of his interest in the Second World War, upon discovering a secret of Dussander's, Todd threatens Dussander and forces him to tell highly detailed stories about his crimes during the War. Time passes, and as Todd becomes older and turns into a teenager, the stories narrated by Dussander begin to cast long shadows on Todd's behaviour.The only aspect to be critized of this novella might be the very rushed ending, but apart from that, King enthrallingly managed to make his reader sympathize with two vile characters with motifs and thoughts as dark as night.
I'd like to think of this novella as a fantastic warm up to King's later novel "IT", which captures childhood almost perfectly.The Breathing Method is aptly subtitled "A Winter's Tale".
All stories are utterly original and independent; even if you are a long time King reader and have read most of his work, you'll discover this volume provides a fresh breath of imagination without author intrusion or any hint of staleness and boredom.
I read this book many, many moons ago and it's still as good as I remembered it to be. This time around I listened to the audiobook. Frank Muller's voice is sublime, his narration is always on point.
I didn't picture either actor while reading the story, and it worked for me immediately.So, how good is this 100 page novella?
I loved them all, and it's a story that enters your psyche as "real." I doubt I'll let go of the feel of this one for years.The last novella, "The Breathing Method" is the book's "Winter's Tale," and it is the shortest at 60 pages.
I love this book, and I dog-eared several different passages, but I wanted to share this one here from "The Body:"The most important things are the hardest things to say.
"Remember Red, hope is a good thing, maybe the best of things, and no good thing ever dies." Andy Dufresne"تذكر يا ريد، الأمل شيء جيد، بل ربما كان أعظم الأشياء، والأشياء الجيدة لا تموت."  Andy Dufresne ...ـــــــــــــــــــــــــــــــــــــــــــــــــــــــــــــ The Shawshank Redemptionفي اعتقادي لايوجد أحد لا يعرف هذا الفيلم ..وهنا الرواية..
والتي كتبها ستيفن كينج رغمَ مشاهدتي للفيلم منذ عدة سنوات ها أنا اليوم أقرأ الرواية .طبعا الرواية جميلة يرويها زميل أندي في السجن من وجهة نظره لذا لا تخلو من الثغرات واللحظات التي لم يشهدها بنفسه ..مع بعض االإختلافات عن الفيلم - لن احرقها - وأقولها لكم طبعاً ...جميلة جدا ..
5/5....ملاحظة :  الرواية أكثر تفصيلا من الفيلم ..أرشحها لكم جميعا ..حتى وإن كنتم شاهدتم الفيلم لن تشعروا بالملل :)
If you've ever subscribed to cable TV, or been to someone's house who has a TV on, you probably know that the spring, summer and fall novellas have been adapted into one classic movie (released as The Shawshank Redemption in 1994), one intriguing if flawed movie (Apt Pupil, released in 1998) and another classic movie (released as Stand By Me in 1986).
Screen rights to The Breathing Method were picked up in 2012, no doubt due to the marketing potential the other three tales offer.While a movie version of a Stephen King story isn't news (thirty-five have been done for film or TV so far, with varying success) what makes Different Seasons my favorite King book is the transportive ability of the storytelling.
My first Steven King's book and it's solid 5 stars.
First of all because I watched some adaptations and I wasn't impressed.
Shining was decent but very overrated, I fallen asleep during Dreamcatcher and Under the dome is one of worst caps I watched.
Green mile was only truly great thing I watched based on his book (until recently I didn't know Apt pupil is based on book ).
Second reason is that there are so many interesting books so many potentially great authors are waiting for their turn.This was great collection all 4 stories are between 4 and 5 stars except Rita Hayworth and Shawshenk redemption which deserves few more stars.
Because I went back to this book, this collection of novellas (some of which are, by the way, longer than many full-length novels), which was published over two decades ago, and it has done everything to remind me what I used to love about Stephen King, possibly confirming for me that I have not necessarily outgrown him, but that he has mostly been just kind of phoning it in lately.
I saw the movie years ago but I didn’t remember much when I started this novella, nor have I read the Tolstoy short story it was based on.
First up we have Rita Hayworth and the Shawshank Redemption, everybody’s seen the film, it’s the story of 30 year old Andy Dufresne, who gets a life sentence in Shawshank for the murder of his cheating wife and her lover.
The Body is the third story and the film was called Stand By Me. Set in the fictional town of Castle Rock, Maine.
The final story is called The Breathing Method and is told through the eyes of David, a middle-aged lawyer.
I don't know if I'll get to the rest any time soon, but here's a review of the first:Rita Hayworth and Shawshank Redemption (finished reading May 23, 2012)The movie is only titled "The Shawshank Redemption" and with the little research I did, I learned it was because they didn't want people thinking it was a movie about Rita Hayworth's life (before the movie was really underway, they received multiple solicitations from actresses to play the lead).
(4 out of 5 Stars)The Breathing Method (Finished November 23, 2018)This is one of those stories within a story that King loves so much, at least in the Dark Tower books I've read.
I’ve seen the movie too, and this would be my second time reading the novella.
The movie was also great, but I’ll say the book is better, because there would be no movie without the book.Apt Pupil - Who says King didn’t include a horror story in Different Seasons?
It did for me anyway (a second time), because I got lost in the words of Gordie, who narrates the story of many years past-tense.
Reading it a second time has secured it as one of my favorites.
Rereading with my book buds, the Floatin Troopers. Very excited to get back into this collection. All 4 of these are very strong reads.
Ono što mogu da zaključim jeste kako su, uz neznatne i potrebne izmene (npr, narator u "Šošenku" nije tamnoput; Gordijeva priča o "Čiku" zasnovana na ličnom odnosu prema poginulom bratu Deniju izostavljena je u filmu; sama scena u kojoj četvorica dečaka pronalazi leš, uz njegov podrobni opis, takođe nije prisutna u ekranizaciji), filmske verzije savršene - ovo naročito važi za "Stand by me", u kome je izvanredan kasting doprineo da sve vreme pred očima imam Rivera, Korija, Vila i Džerija.
Fantastic!Tales (not stories :-)) are quite remarkable. Every one of them on their strange way.I watched Shawshank Redemption movie and I enjoyed, but the story bring something more to it that I like even more.
This was the most disappointing Stephen King book I’ve ever read. Womp to the max. Shawshank Redemption - 3/5 starsApt Pupil - DNF (tw: animal abuse)The Body - 3/5 starsBreathing Method - 2/5 stars
Therefore, with four previously unpublished novellas just lying around, King crammed them into one singular release he dubbed Different Seasons.Rather than review the whole book in one long blurb, I’ll just share my thoughts on each story individually:Rita Hayworth & The Shawshank Redemption - I’m sure I’m not going to ruffle any feathers by saying that Frank Darabont’s film adaptation is one of the greatest of all time.
The original ending is chilling stuff.The Body - Like Shawshank, The Body is one where I had seen the movie (Stand By Me) beforehand.
King i horor. Provereno dobar spoj. Nakon senzacionalnog debija („Keri“, 1974), usledili su hit za hitom: „Salemovo“ (1975), „Isijavanje“ (1977), „Uporište“ (1978), „Mrtva zona“ (1979), „Potpaljivačica“ (1980) i „Kudžo“ (1981) – sve sami krvavi dragulji u kruni kralja horora. Početkom osamdesetih, King je napravio hrabar eksperiment. Zbirka „Godišnja doba“ (1982) donosi četiri novele u kojima uspešno „izašao iz horora“. „Godišnja doba“, nedavno po prvi put objavljena na srpskom jeziku, krunski je dokaz Kingove sposobnosti da stvara uspešna dela i izvan žanra koji ga je proslavio. Kompletan prikaz pročitajte na portalu City Magazine:http://citymagazine.rs/clanak/prikaz-...
