https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/929904.The_Corn_Grows_Ripe
However, and that all having been said, there are in my opinion simply too too many factual mistakes with regard to especially Catholic feast days shown in Dorothy Rhoads' narrative for me to consider granting more than a high two star rating at best for The Corn is Ripe.
Not at all a bad or in any way an inappropriate story (and actually in many ways a sweetly delightful, readable and encouraging tale, with important messages and lessons) is The Corn Grows Ripe, but I personally just cannot consider more than two stars for not only such blatant factual errors but especially with regard to the erroneous calendar dates of and for so many of the specifically Catholic feast days, for errors that even rudimentary research of any Catholic church calendar could so easily have avoided.
It's a quick read and a coming-of-age story about Tigre, a young Maya boy in Yucatán who must plant the corn his family needs for food when his father is injured in an accident.
For the Mayas, "making milpa" is a religious rite.Hm, maybe I'll remember more of the details of this book now that I've put them in my review.Quite a few people have shelved this as historical fiction, and it definitely has that feel.
It was easier now for him to stick to unpleasant things.
Dorothy Rhoads, however, intertwines Mayan and Catholic belief systems to the point where you don’t know where one begins and the other ends.
Wouldn’t you think that after 500 years of Christianity the people know the difference?Here are some examples:”He came to the end of the street and stopped before a pair of large wooden crosses that guarded the entrance to the village.
These were the image of Holy Cross, a very ancient Maya santo, and the patron of the village.
Still, with a little more care and a desire to get the facts right, I mean, couldn't she have looked up the saints' days for February?
The Corn Grows Ripe reads like an easier, more consistently interesting version of ...And Now Miguel.
It describes roughly a year in the life of a young boy as he takes on the responsibilities of a Mayan corn farmer.Although the setting is the Yucatan peninsula, the cultural information would also apply largely to Guatemala, which is still mostly Mayan today.
The time period of the book is not specific, but it is clearly post-Columbian.
I don't know if any currently do.The pacing and the characters were stronger than I expected from a 60 year old book.
I especially enjoyed the relationship between the boy, Tigre, and his great-grandmother.
An interesting story of a more modern era Mayan boy who has to clear and plant his family's milpa (corn patch) after his father is injured. While Mayan legend and Mayan gods play into the telling of the story, it still felt a little lacking and I am not sure why this was a Newbery Award winner. Decent, but not exceptional.
The Newbery committee really went through a Mayan phase . . .
The Corn Grows Ripe is a short but solidly crafted cultural story about a "modern-day" Maya family, seen mostly from the perspective of a twelve-year-old boy named Tigre (pronounced "Tee-gray") who is descended from the great Maya people.
A lack of water isn't a big deal to most Americans living in modern times, but for a people who derive everything they have and everything they are from the corn they grow, drought is a plague that threatens to wipe out entire families from starvation before the next year's planting season can arrive to save them.
Oct
Disaster hits this family when the father breaks a leg at the beginning of corn planting season.
His twelve-year-old son must suddenly grow up and take over or the family will starve over the winter.The family is a Mayan family long after the empire is no more than jungle covered ruins.
Traditions persist.
The corn planting is one.Throughout the book the conflict between the ancient traditions and present Christian faith appears along with a accommodations the people have made.
This makes it interesting for any reader.The book is written for younger readers.
It goes quickly and remains interesting to hold an older reader's attention.
Tigre’s father is hurt. It is to Tigre that the Mayan family must look to take over the father’s work. Tigre rises to the occasion and successfully helps the family to put in a good corn crop, though a severe drought threatened the family’s crop and their survival. There was no feeling of judgment in this book, no feeling that the people in the story were savages or ignorant. Instead, the story was told from the point of view of a detached observer. The story holds up. Newbery Honor.
I suppose it wasn't *too* full of broad generalizations about the "Maya Indians" and their connection to their land or outdated gender role reinforcements, but... uh, no that's what the whole book was about. We can do better, 2014 educators.To be fair, for all I know about the Maya, all of this book's information about their religion and agriculture may have been entirely accurate. Anyone smarter than me want to pitch in?
This Newbery Honor book tells a coming of age story for a boy named Tigre.
In the Mayan family, corn must be planted every year.
Tigre usually helps his dad, but this year, he's being put to the test and must do it alone.
At the beginning of the book, he was just a boy.
The characters will teach the readers about Mayan traditions and lifestyles.
Tigre was under pressure and put to the test, but his success tells us about the resiliency of his character.
Rhoads used a powerful plot and characters to bring her story to life.
Newbery challenge 112/512. Probably my least favorite on the Newbery list so far. The only redeeming element is the attempt to present Mayan culture. But the story doesn’t feel authentic. It ends up being generic, over simplified, and boring.
For a 11 year old, this is the most boring book ever.This book is more like for 3 to 7 year olds than 8 to 12 year olds.But this book would be great if you're looking for a book for your little child.
I loved how this boy grew. I also liked thinking about corn and it's importance in the history of the world.
Definitely dated.
This short, simple story is a quick, engaging read about Mayan culture.
I like stories where kids do great things. That is what this boy did. He worked hard and he did not quit. I enjoyed reading this book.
A great piece to help immerse yourself in Mayan life from a child's perspective. As a Christian, the end broke my heart, but I appreciated the reality the author brought to the story.
There is no bonesetter in the village, so Tigre must travel 17 kilometers through bush.
Tigre realizes that it is up to him to perform the laborious work, but his family is skeptical that lazy Tigre is up to the task.I love to learn about other cultures and beliefs, but this book fell a little flat for me.
I did appreciate that Tigre learns some responsibility, and I think that was this book’s saving grace for me!MY RATING: 2 stars – Meh, it was just “ok.” My 9 year-old daughter liked it a little more than I did and gave it 3 stars.
Mayan-American - (Unfortunately, most U.S. citizens, even today, typically only think of themselves as being "Americans." They must not be aware of their actual geography.
America includes two continents: "North America" and "South America." "Native Americans" include natives of all countries in the Americas, including Mexico and Canada of North America, as well as all the Central and South American countries such as: Brazil Peru,Colombia, and Belize.
This means that, for example, "Puerto Ricans" are also "Americans." U.S. Americans need to become more educated, and less ethno-centric if they desire to continue to be respected global members of nations throughout the world in the 21st.
This is a coming-of-age story about a modern-day boy, Dionisio, who lives with his family in a small Mayan village in the mountains of Yucatan.
But he feels guilty about this, and so strives to live up to the expectations of his family.
After his father is injured clearing the corn field the family depends on to live, Dionisio bravely agrees to finish the arduous job of clearing the field and planting the spring corn in his father's place.
This is a coming of age story about a young boy that saves his family out of turmoil. He struggles to do the planting and harvest. This is a multicultural chapter book about a Mayan boy who needs to step in and take his father's place in the planting and harvest seasons. This book is gender role specific. The young boy needs to support the family, he needs to be the "breadwinner, leader and defender" (Russell, 2001, p.44).
I found this book interesting. It kept my attention and would be a good way to introduce Mexico Indians to a class. It is about a boy who becomes the "man of the house" after his father is injured. As the man of the house comes certain responsibilities that he now has to do in place of his father.
I read this when I was little. I remember a weird part in this book where the main character was croaking like a frog in a thunderstorm? In the end that's all I took away from this book because I'm pretty sure I didn't get what was going on, it was interesting at the time reading about a little kid in another culture though.
Not sure how accurate it is, but this depiction of Mayan history and culture is fascinating. Unfortunately the story is told in such a prosaic style that I found it difficult to stay engaged. Plus, there were some attitudes (which were probably a result of the times period in which the book was written) that I found really off-putting.
Here is a nice tale about a Mayan village family during the 1950's, and their dependence on corn. It's also a coming-of-age story about a semi-coddled 12yo boy who steps up to a man's role when the need arises. It's filled with wonderful stylistic drawings. I really love that this older Newbery book is about a non-white culture without being patronizing, and felt it ended before it should.
Part of my Newbery Honor list. Nothing remarkable here, other than it being remarkably similar to another Newbery Honor or Award winner about a child helping his father plant corn in South America. Are both of these books worthy of honorable mention, really? Answer: No, neither is. At least it was a quick read!
This book is interesting. I enjoyed learning about the Mayan - Spanish - Mexican culture's beliefs and superstitions. It could have had more of an emotional impact, but it reads more like informational text.
Actually started this book last week. Reading for CC1 wk 16 and 17..krb 2/15/16Good book, lot's of talk of other gods though. We liked that Dioniosio changed his ways and showed that he could be counted on..krb 2/19/16
