https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/580048.The_Trojan_War
First, it was just like the MSND, which I couldn't understand the writings, and it was hard.
And now, the third time, I just picked this again from the bookshelf even though I knew that it was boring (it was also the only book that looked professional👌).
And now reading it again the third time, as I could understand a little bit more than before, I just felt it, I just knew it, and I just saw the beauty of the writings in this piece of book.
Like one word that I'll use to describe this book is, it's "beautiful".
My childhood self would have wanted to rate it 5 stars. So, there. I don't know it was appropriate for my 6th grade self but it was the first book that I read.
This book is great in some ways but it falls apart in other ways.
First, the characters are absolutely amazing in their description for instance, it gives the back story of Achilles and how he was dipped into the River Styx.
In the original versions, the Trojan war lasted for 24 years, but in this book, there is only 10 years of war.
This book shows how painful war is through death of loved ones, homesickness, destruction, and revenge.
While this book is not amazing, it is still a great book for beginners in the Greek mythology realm.
The book was fascinating. It was interesting on how clear the author portrayed the characters' gifts and major flaws. The book strangely doesn't wander into the grey, like I would think it would. And surprisingly it was very eye opening. I appreciated the author's tasteful endeavors to show what happened without getting into to much detail (the sensual elements especially). I can now say that I truly know who Helen of Troy is.
This was a fun and exciting retelling of The Iliad for middle-grade children. I read it along with my 5th grader for literature/history this semester. We both enjoyed it.
Pretty good way to sum up "The Iliad", but also pretty violent. Had to ask my 6th grader to leave the room at some parts while I continued reading it with my high schooler.
It was a interesting and educational book great for a middle school level.
Decent adaptation of The Iliad, but I don't see much use in keeping it.
I had to read this for English class. The part about the fighting was very boring, but I got into it and ended up liking it more than I thought I would.
The setting of the book is around somewhere around the 12th or 13th B.C. on the lands of Troy and Greece on which thousands of Greek and Trojan soldiers would soon fight and the gods will also fight.During the time when Troy finally made peace with the Greeks.
The Trojans fought and fought the strongest warrior in their ranks were of Hector son Of Priam prince of Troy.
The Greeks were though victorius over Troy.The book was interesting it had a combination of many mythical elements in the book, for example the story had a war which includes soldiers and there were gods which makes it more of a myth.
In 'The Trojan War' there is one big picture loaded with a bunch of other little pictures.
But the main gist of the book is to describe what the Trojan War was and how it happened.
All his enemies feared him and thus this really did assist the Greeks during the war.
My favorite character was also Achilles.
My most favorite part of the book is a hard one to choose.
There's just so many good parts.
I would recommend this book to people who like mysterious, action packed, adventurous stories.
5 out of 5 stars good job Olivia Coolidge.
It vividly describes the battles fought and makes you feel like your actually a solider in battle, this realistic fiction shows the minds and lives of many different characters and many different perspectives of the people fighting on both sides the suspense becomes greater the and honestly will make give you goosebumps.this book has some very vivid(bloody and gory) fights so if your sensitive to that you may not want to read it but if your into action adventure crime and war this book is absolutely perfect for you.one of my favorite characters named "the wolf" was only in a few pages but the author gets you so attached to him so quickly (spoiler alert) when they kill him off you will want to throw your book, but please don't because this story is not one you'll want to miss.but to wrap things up, if your looking for awesome realistic fiction or your into Greek history you have to get a copy of this book!
Wonderful retelling of the story of the Trojan War, something I haven't read about since I was a child.
I have read all of these stories before, for the most part, but never all together in one place.
The Iliad is a story of war, murder, greed, and cruelty.
There are not good guys, really, just powerful people motivated by rage and greed and lust and cruelty, all driven on to violence and murder by the capricious Olympian gods.
War and politics do not seem to have changed much over the past 3,000 years.
Again, 4 stars for the kids.
The goal of the book (as stated on the back cover) is to provide an over-arching summary of the entire Trojan War, to show how various stories are all connected to one another (Trojan Horse, Achilles, Odysseus).
We enjoyed this read aloud, particularly the kids, but it leaves sort of a sense of constant death by violent means.
That's accurate for war, I guess.
A good place to begin for kids, then they can move into the individual stories that offer more details.
This book was a recollection of the famous Trojan War. It takes place before and during the war.
Coolidge accurately describes the events of the war, adding in the gods and goddesses.
She describes how they effected the war in the eyes of the Greeks, though they don't really exist.
The events are in chronological order and it was easy to understand the events that occur.
I think the story was great and non-biased toward the Greeks or Troy.
He also didn;t fight for half the war!
I would recommend this book to people who enjoy stories about ancient Greece and battles.
Making ancient Troy and the associated gods and characters accessible to younger readers is a good reason to pick up this book. While aimed at teenagers and young adults, it's also worthwhile as a hard-to-put-down volume that reads like a soap opera.Agamemnon, Achilles, Hector, and all are here, with dialogue and exposition made easy for the young reader. I found it fun to read, as a way to re-live Homer's tale all over again and to get in touch with my inner Greek gods.A good book for a sunny day.Book Season = Summer
This book brought together many of the Greek myths and legends weaving them into a complete story.
It was very entertaining, if a tad on the violent side for my 1st & 3rd graders, with characters larger than life.
I especially enjoyed it as a good back story after watching the movie Troy.
It made me appreciate how well the movie was made and gave insight into some of the subtleties.
With many characters, storylines, and battles it was sometimes hard to follow, but overall we really enjoyed the book and the tales of Greek or Trojan heroes and their loved ones.
The author did an excellent job of presenting the mythology surrounding the Trojan War in an engaging and readily accessible style while remaining true to the ancient authors whom she was paraphrasing. I highly enjoyed it as an adult who has already read the Illiad, Odyssey and Aeneid; and after reading I promptly gave it to a friend's teenage daughter whom I knew to be interested in Greek mythology. I think that nicely illustrates the appeal that this book can have to persons of a wide range of ages and backgrounds.
Well, I know more about the unfolding of the Trojan war, according to the gossip over the centuries. There were interesting chapters here and there, but mostly there is a lot of smoting and hacking, threats, challenges: boy stuff. Boys will definitely enjoy this book more than I did. There were parts that were absolutely confusing, though. Chapters begin without orienting you to where you are and whose perspective you're seeing. Write all the characters down as you meet them and make sure you note which side of the page they are on--Trojan or Greek.
This was a decent introduction to mythology for my 5th and 7th grader, but it was hard to follow at times. It did whet their appetites, though, and my son has since read several other books on some new favorite characters (e.g. Achilles and Odysseus). It provided a great opportunity to show how ancient mythology has been incorporated into our culture, e.g. "Achilles' heel." In fact, they heard and understood that term shortly after we read about Achilles, so it was worth our time.
Written in the 50s, this book uses older and formal language. Maybe a tough sell to the younger crowd (under 10) of today. But its wonderful because it includes the before and the after and the inbetween---all the parts that we love about the classic story. Haven't found anything that covered the stories like this
I believe this was the book i had when i was 12, it had a differant paper back cover: all red... but i know the title and author sound familiar.I really liked this book, i learn a lot, and it inspired me into mytholgy, and its connection to history
Great book selection for sixth grade summer reading. It is a faithful retelling of events leading to, during, and after the Trojan war. Can be dry at times. If you are an adult, read the Lawrence translation of the Odyssey instead.
This is an excellent retelling for upper elementary or middle school children. The writing is lucid but not watered down, and the stories are gripping and retold with little deviation from their source material.
I thought this story would never end. My high schoolers didn't enjoy it either, aside from the funeral games. Maybe I should worry? The one advantage to it was that it made the movie "Troy" more understandable... kind of....
Another homeschool book. Started good, slow at the end. Takes all of the stories that you've heard bits and pieces of about the Trojan War and puts them together.
loved it.
Pretty good. Nicely sums up the Trojan War stories. Wish there had been more about Odysseus's trek home. I think kids would enjoy some of those stories (cyclops and all that).
This book was ok. I enjoyed some stories better than others. I did like reading about the Trojan Women because my niece was in a play and was Andromache.
It was a good book with mythology and war put together.
