https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/744206.If_They_Come_in_the_Morning
They are a reminder of Humans' absurdities and foolishness, an alert that the system and its social and institutional structures still suffer from so many flaws, and therefore that the struggle for the social justice is so frought with obstacles.Once more we witness in the present the creation of new movements (like Black Lives Matters http://www.theguardian.com/us-news/20...
Undoubtedly provocative and awakening, this book evokes a large spectre of themes and arouses so many emotions: the revolution, patience, injustice, frustration, fury, sacrifices, despair, one's determination in hard times, the alternatives we have and the choices to make in life, faith, the essence of heroism, disillusions, the oppression, the despair, solidarity, the societal inequities, humans' absurd actions, the freedom of speech, hope...
“In the heat of our pursuit for fundamental human rights, Black people have been continually cautioned to be patient. We are advised that if we remain faithful to the existing democratic order, the glorious moment will eventually arrive when we will come into our own as fully-fledged human beings.” — Angela Davis
Unlike the mass of whites, the path which leads to jails and prisons is deeply rooted in the imposed patterns of Black existence.
For this very reason, an almost instinctive affinity binds the mass of Black people to the political prisoners.”  [p42]  “The vast majority of Blacks harbour a deep hatred of the police and are not deluded by official proclamations of justice through the courts.” [p42]The material in this book is sometimes aggressive and angry but often it is miserably sad.
I’ve just completed reading “If They Come in the Morning…Voices of Resistance.” Angela Davis, at the time, a young college professor, wrote and compiled this book while confined in a California jail cell awaiting trial for murder and other charges.
The book opens with an open letter written to Angela by James Baldwin in which he says we must support Angela’s attempts to get justice because “If they take you (Angela) in the morning, they will be coming for us that night.” It appears the book’s central focus is the liberation of what she calls political prisoners.
If we know, and do nothing, we are worse than the murderers hired in our name.
If we know, then we must fight for your life as though it were our own--which it is--and render impassable with our bodies the corridor to the gas chamber.
Of her struggle for a socialist society?
For her beliefs, for her life, Angela Davis stands accused.
Innocent of the charges of murder and kidnap.
She stands guilty only of loving humanity and fighting with her life for the freedom of all of us."--The National United Comittee to free Angela Davis, November 1970
this is a book of letters but they all talk to each other and words and thoughts flow together so I don't remember now who said what.
But here's a shocker the worst outcome is actually that people can't be excited about the abolition of prisons.
The categories can be best simplified by reducing them to three, the overt self-satisfied racist who doesn’t deign to hide his antipathy, the self-interdicting racist who harbors and nurtures racism in spite of their best efforts, and the unconscious racist, product of preconceived notions that must be blamed on history [...] Too much Black blood has flowed between the chasm that separates the races, it’s fundamentally unfair to expect the Black man to differentiate at a glance the self-accepting racist, the self-interdicting racist and the unconscious racist.
If you're interested in learning more about the ways in which the state uses law enforcement as a tool for racial oppression, this is a good book to check out.
It's kind of like a handbook for radicals really, and if you're looking for some quotable Angela, this book has it.
Because you can't call yourself a radical without knowing what she's about.I enjoyed this book also because of the context it provides when looking at the problems faced by political prisoners.
Margaret Burnham, co-counsel to Angela Davis explains:With good reason, Blacks have come to view the P.D. as a worse enemy than the prosecutor.
It focuses on the celebrated case of Angela Davis, a former UCLA professor and accomplished intellectual, accused (and later acquitted, though that's beyond the scope of this book) of orchestrating a courtroom break out to free a Soledad Brother on trial for capital murder, based on apparently flimsy and dubious evidence.
Includes contributions from Davis, her legal team, and other prisoners, as well as letters of support from a variety of activists and public intellectuals (including Coretta Scott King and James Baldwin, from whom the title is taken.) I would strongly recommend this book to anyone interested in social justice, radicalism, or African-American studies.
A collection of essays, poems, found letters, legal documents regarding the prison industrial complex and the wrong imprisonment of political dissidents.
My god, Nixon seems like an asshole.
Via that there are many meaningful discussions of race, class, and gender (hey, that's the theme of one of Davis's later books!) and how the system is stacked against the 'little guy'.Inspiring that Davis was able to do so much whilst in prison.
2016 Reading Challenge - A political memoir I originally read this in January 2001 in relation to my graduate work.
This is my second time reading it.
It is a valuable compilation of personal reflections on being a political prisoner in the late 1960s and early 1970s, along with letters of support and critical analysis of the political climate of the time.
Angela Davis, as always, does an excellent job of correlating her individual experience to the larger Black experience and the world wide attempt at revolution.
These reflections are still pertinent in today's political climate that both mirrors and magnifies that era.
Wonderful collection of articles about this time in history. Some very interesting commentary from some very interesting people; Angela Davis, Huey Newton, Ruchell Magee and others contribute. Recommended companion reading: Soledad Brother Recommended companion viewing: Punishment Park (1971)
I learned that everyone in prison is a political prisoner...That's pretty cynical. I think it was an interesting read, and it certainly does open one's eyes about the injustices that happen in prison. However, there did seem to be a tendency to describe everyone in jail as a political hero. Also, everyone gets a number after their name like superheroes. I think the Solidad three should fight the bionic six.
i learned a ton, was really moved and inspired. there's so much in here. deep, accessible critique of prison industrial complex. verbal fighting back against the repression and targeting of dissent/radical thought. extended discussion of right to self-representation. information of a lot of important trials (and movements), 60's and 70's. but more than anything, courage and passion really leap off the page...(and what i wrote here is just scratching the surface)
Some of these essays read as very much of a specific time and place, perhaps a time where there was a more... uncritical.. embrace of communism and international communist leaders. But it's also a fascinating (depressing?) tour through some of the lesser known and actively suppressed parts of black american history.Also, a lot of definite mixed emotions to be reading that people in the 1970s were just as convinced we had reached The End of America as we are today.
I had this book in my bag and Angela Davis was sitting right behind me during a report-out on the New Jersey 4 trial at Critical Resistance. Oh how I wanted to do something geeky like get her to sign it. But I didn't.
Written by Civil Rights activists in the 1970s about their experiences with the American police, courts and prisons. It's an amazing book, bringing recent history to life through the words of people who lived it. Highly recommended!
Great breakdown of the prison system, and discussion of the campaign to free Angela and all political prisoners. Definitely a document of its time, but amazing how relevant the critiques still are.
Because, you know, Angela Davis rocks and stuff...
I read this book when I was only 23 years old. It had a profound effect on me about right and justice, then and since. It is a deep book but well worth reading as it is written well.
This is a great collections of stories and some beautiful poems. If you are looking for inspiration than this book will help you find it in yourself!
My Dad passed this read down to me. It's a very old book, had to be purchased in the seventies, early eighties. Great depiction of injustice in the prison system especially, in that era.
A case study, with accompanying notes/letters/evidence around 7th August 1970 and the incarceration of Angela Davis and others that followed. An important contribution to Prison Abolition
A solid collection of speeches and personal letters from prominent voices of the time (70S/80s) on the anti-prison/war movement lead by members of the Black Panther Party, Communist Party USA et al.
Angela Davis is such a bad-ass! The struggle for social justice is so frought with obstacles. This is a must read for anyone concerned with social-justice.
I am learning that the struggle for freedom never ends
A written testament of the struggles represented by Ruchell Magee, Angela Davis, Bobby Seale and many others for social justice and freedom for political prisoners.
