https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/896622.The_Wolf_and_the_Dove
What I want to address are the many many things I found wrong with this book, * I'm not a history major but I thought that after conquering England William inter-married the Norman and Saxon nobility to ensure a harmonious transition, but Lady Aislinn is turned into a slave to be used at Wolfgar's whim?
Worst of all, at least for this reader, was no chemistry at all between Aislinn and Wolfgar, a death knell for a romance novel.
As quoted on some of her book jackets, the next best thing to time travel.
3/6/2013 - Re-read with my local book groupThe Wolf and the Dove is Kathleen Woodiwiss’s second novel written.
It’s a rather lengthy Viking Historical with over 500 pages, all of which I devoured as I enjoyed a re-read with my local book peeps.
While I was happy to find it’s still among my all time favorites, I realize this book may not work for others.
Eighteen year old Aislinn of Darkenwald becomes an object of the spoils of war and now belongs to Wulfgar, the Iron Wolf of Normandy.
When I read romance, I’m looking more for the relationship aspects rather than a high percentage of historical accurate detail.
Granted, I've only read 2 1/2 (ish) of her books, but for the two that I've actually finished, I noticed a distinct pattern:1) 100-150 pages of set-up and (relatively, YMMV) interesting goings-on;2) 250-300 pages of repetitive wheel-spinning and nonsensical actions by either the hero or heroine (but usually the chick);3) 50 pages of whiplash action;4) 5-10 pages of wrapping up dangling threads in a bright, shiny day-glo package with flashing neon ribbon.The book started out well and I was getting good vibes from it.
(hide spoiler)] Made no sense and annoyed me mucho.But Wulfie was worth the extra day or two it took me to skim through this one.
But Wulfie put up with a lot from both heroine and author, so I give him an extra star.
Title in German:Der Wolf und die TaubeThis was the first book I ever read by Kathleen E. Woodiwiss and its still my most loved one. The story between Aislinn the daughter of a Saxon baron and Wulfgar a Norman and how they came to love each other in a time of war, conquest and upheaval makes me still sighing happily and my eyes suspiciously bright. Wulgar is my epitome of a noble knight, kind and strong, tender and yet a great warrior and I almost fell instantly in love with him at the age of 17
Title in German:Der Wolf und die TaubeThis was the first book I ever read by Kathleen E.
The story between Aislinn the daughter of a Saxon baron and Wulfgar a Norman and how they came to love each other in a time of war, conquest and upheaval makes me still sighing happily and my eyes suspiciously bright.
Wulgar is my epitome of a noble knight, kind and strong, tender and yet a great warrior and I almost fell instantly in love with him at the age of 17 when I read this novel for the first time.
I think there is a point in most women's lives where they have read trashy romance novels.
We pretty much read them because of the trashy romance novel sex scenes.
You can no doubt see why I stopped reading trashy romance novels.
I also re-read Outlander this summer.There has to be something about romance books that speak to women (and at least one male).
Maybe romance books are a female version of Bond.
Here is, the books say, a man who is tamed by the love of a good women.
If you are thinking of reading a romance book, this is a good one.
Aislinn was bipolar, giggling while tasting the rain right after being dour and bitchy.
It was as though Woodiwiss had created a coy, disarming, precious character and then threw her into a plot that required conflict, hatred, and some STRENGTH.
Aislinn had none.
There were no likeable characters - Aislinn's mother acted insane (maybe the lithium imbalance is hereditary) and Kerwick was a classic PITA.
I probably would have liked Wulfgar - he was the least unlikeable character in this stagnating mess - but I have neither the patience nor the mad skimming skills to continue.
A stroll down memory-lane via a Buddy-read of Andrea CP and Vivacious Vivian.
4/5#RitaWoodiwiss #RetoRita2 Pues también me ha gustado mucho como todos los de esta autora.Es una historia muy previsible, la verdad, pero de la Woodiwiss lo compro todo. También hay que pensar que se desarrolla sobre el 1.067 y no sacarlo de contexto temporal. Si lo haces posiblemente no te guste.Lo que menos me ha gustado,No se si será la traducción, es el abuso de la palabra "zorra". Ya se hace cansino.

One of the best bodice rippers I ever read as a young impressionable woman!
She was the daughter of the lord of Darkenwald, proud, wise, and uncommonly beautiful, but now Aislinn is but a slave to the conquering Normans, a plaything for the man who killed her father.
Aislinn shall never willingly submit to any Norman—her hatred for them knows no bounds—until she meets the handsome and formidable Wulfgar, who challenges her at every turn.
Wulfgar has always been able to love a woman and leave her without nary a thought to cloud his mind.
Aislinn and Wulfgar are such deep and complex you can’t help but yearn for the gentle dove to tame the wild wolf and show him the power of love.
The second, which is Aislinn's main motivation for remaining after the invasion, to care for the inhabitants is an enormous fail.
He has the emotional age of maybe nine years old, and compounded by abuse and abandonment means he's raw and has to learn not only how to behave with Aislinn beyond sexual congress, which he is surprisingly good at for someone with little regard for females, but also understand his own feelings.Hampered protagonists trying to fight their way to love from an inauspicious start.
And in the end, the main/original conflict was resolved almost too easily and presented like a gift with a nice little bow which (after the long, drawn out story) felt unrealistic and hastily put together merely because the story had to end.
The way I see it, the story was unnecessarily lengthy and a lot the word count could have been better used to create a more reasonable, natural, organic ending.I also want to mention that the fade-to-black love scenes were snooze-worthy.
Reminded me a lot of the eyeroll-worthy fade-to-black love scene in that popular book where the Dawn would be Breaking.
The author stays "in character" throughout the entire book.
Her father is dead, her mother beaten, her people killed, turned into slaves and some of the women raped.
Aislinn resists Wulf as much as she can...much more than in most of the books I read today.
This is pretty much the entire book.
Some subplots are going on, some of the history of battles and such thrown in...but mostly it's who is going to win the game of love...Aislinn or Wulfgar?There are some strange reactions such as laughing or being happy at really odd times.
This has got to be the WORST HISTORICAL ROMANCE I HAVE EVER ATTEMPTED TO READ!Argh!
I thought you want to eat for a completely different reason.....
She tries to imitate the old way of speech and fails miserably, making the the entire book grate on your brain...And she's all like:"Oh, nay i beg of you sir!!!" *swoons* "You will never have my heart, you fiend!" *blushes maidenly* And I'm all like: BARF!!!!!!!!!!!I only got to about 20%, and could not for the life of me stomach more...
I wanted to slap her silly...
This was my first Woodiwiss book. I had a lot of expectations since this is a classic 70s romance (which I think everyone has read at some point). It was very well-written, the dialogue was very "medieval" and you feel like you're right there in the middle of the story. At times I found it very long, like the author could've chopped off 150 pages and it wouldn't have made a difference. Wulfgar, the hero, is very "medievally" barbaric but I found him oddly attractive :). Aislinn was a bit of a wu
It was very well-written, the dialogue was very "medieval" and you feel like you're right there in the middle of the story.
At times I found it very long, like the author could've chopped off 150 pages and it wouldn't have made a difference.
Aislinn was a bit of a wuss from a modern standpoint, but these were medieval times and the poor girl is getting her clothes ripped off half of the time so you feel for her, and I don't think there is anything she could've done differently considering the time period.
What a disappointment!This book came so highly recommended and I was so excited to finally get on with it...
but what a waste.The Heroine, supposedly a spitfire, acts like a complete sissy in front of the "enemy" - The hero.Just 25 pages into the book and the "Hero" (who is indirectly responsible for the heroine's father's death as well as that of several of the her country men)is getting glances from the the heroine with "something akin to tenderness" in them ?!!!
A short plot summery of The Wolf and the Dove:BattleSlaughterRape (or was it)HumiliationRapeMore RapeWhippingRapeTravelCourt RapeMarrying your rapistKidnappingSwordfightDeathHappily Ever AfterAnd yet sometimes I want to read stuff like this anyway.
Tak dinyana Wulfgar juga terpesona oleh kecantikan Aishlin, tidak butuh waktu lama bagi Wulfgar dan Ragnor utk saling memperebutkan Aishlin.Wulfgar sebagai tokoh utama dalam buku ini digambarkan sebagai ksatria yang berwajah tampan walau memiliki banyak luka-luka dari berbagai pengalaman pertempuran di medan perang.
Tapi yang paling membuat saya terpukau adalah sudut pandang Aishlin ttg cintanya pada Wulfgar yang notabene awalnya adalah musuh keluarganya dan bangsanya, bagaimana ucapan-ucapan Aishlin pada saat membela Wulfgar dan dirinya sendiri yang diejek sbg pelacur Saxon secara bertubi-tubi dari segala pihak, mulai dari ibu kandungnya sendiri, mantan tunangannya, juga dari Ragnor (si pemerkosa yang belum puas karena belum memiliki sepenuhnya diri Aishlin) hingga Gwyneth yang berlidah super tajam.
Despite their fantastic story..it was still enjoyable..and believeable.While I was reading this book..I lost it at some time, and I looked for it for years until HS, when I found it in a bag way in the back of my closet in worse shape than I got it(if that's imagineable).
But I finally got a chance to read it all the way though..and I enjoyed it even more..since I was older and more able to appreciate it's contents.
lol I loved this book..I can't say that enough.
One Saxon maid, Aislinn, tried to care for her Norman dominated keep.
The Conqueror gave this Norman warrior the prize of Darkenwald and all that's in it.
Wulfgar yields no soft spot for women, but he wants order in his new keep.
Aislinn fights her growing attraction for Darkenwald's new lord, while at the same trying to save her people.
She tries to help her former betrothed, her mother, and the people of Darkenwald in the awkward new position of "serf" to Wulfgar.This is more a classic romance of the heroine "tipping her chin in defiance" at the alpha male hero.
This was a long, long, loooong book.Forget about the raping and the constant fondling of every woman in the story, it was BORING as hell!The writing wasn't very good and some of the words the author used to set the story in the 1060's or whenever it was set weren't really doing it for me.The characters...
I just didn't like them!, Aislinn came off as a bipolar girl who's temper went off at the silliest things from guys but then she went totally doormat when it was another woman doing her wrong.
meh!, he wasn't interesting enough to remember why I didn't like him.The plot didn't bring anything new and it was somewhat predictable.I wouldn't recommend it or read it again...
I don't remember enough to review Woodiwiss' bodice rippers individually. Looking back through the fog of time and cheap 1970s weed, I consider her books my Pre-Rogers (Rosemary ) romances. I'll bet I adored The Wolf and the Dove , though, because I loved me some mean medieval heroes. For some reason, the Norman Conquest seemed like an excellent excuse for snarling alphas to behave like randy wolverines without troubling my newly emerging feminist sensibilities.
Good grief, at some of hese reviews. O.O Everyone is, of course, entitled to their own opinion. Yes, there is a great deal in this story I could be offended by, if I chose to be. But it's fiction, set in a time when many, many things then were completely unacceptable, yet people had to live with it. If you take this for what it is, it was still worth my time reading, and I still enjoyed it. Perhaps not as much as my sixteen year-old self did, LOL. But well enough to be entertained. : )
Not safe: (view spoiler)[The hero rapes the heroine! (hide spoiler)]
2.5 stars
Though the book kinda drags on at parts - the author takes a lot of time to develop the characters of the hero and the heroine and a whole lot of other characters - I really liked the way she handled them, the heroine Aisleen, spirited, determined yet gentle, steadfast and loyal .
The hero's character, Wulfgar, is a revelation, one can actually see the character developing as the book progresses.
All in all, I really liked the book, I would have thought it was amazing if the story was a bit faster paced.
A Saxon noblewoman, Aislinn, was turned to slave and mistress (read harlot) when Norman's invaded and overcame the Saxon homestead.
Wulfgar used her as a slave but treated her somewhat kindly in bedroom matters.
I honestly don't see how the vanguished can turn around and love the man responsible for raping and degrading her before her people.
Woodiwiss dragged out the "romance" between Wulfgar and Aislinn to a point where it became repetitive and boring.
I liked Aislinn and felt immense pity for her and her situation.
I can honestly say that I would not have survived Medieval times if this is how women were treated.
This was the very first romance novel that I ever read.
I was a senior in high school and thought that it was the most heart throbbing story that I had ever read.
This is the story of Wulfgar, a Noman knight in King William's army who have just marched into England to claim the throne, and Aislinn, a Saxon maiden who looses her father and home to the invading army.
Aislinn has to adjust to her change in circumstances and with that decides that maybe Wulfgar isn't the monster she feared him to be.
I can see, having finished this, why it is considered a classic of historical romance. I hate reading stories about rape-HATE!-but for some reason, I was drawn to the characters in this story anyway. And, at the end, it turns out she was never really raped at all, so I'm glad i didn't put it down at the beginning.I loved the characters, and I thought Wolfgar's character development was pretty believable, it took him a long time to give in to his feelings.I definitely recommend this for historical romance fans.
