https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/903911.The_Joyous_Cosmology
He changed his views after some experiences with the drugs and this book is his contribution to the discussion, a contribution specifically focusing on the emotional and religious aspects of the experience.I had a similar experience in college.
Among our many discussions, we debated the relative merits of his preferred method to that preferred by most of the students at the college.
Not having had the experience, he tried 500 micrograms of LSD.Afterwards, in the North Lounge of the Student Forum, he told me that the experience had, one, caused him to revise his originally negative opinion of the drug and, two, made him aware of having been conceited about his own spiritual achievement.
This book does an incredible job at explaining the many thoughts that cross the minds of people who are fortunate enough to really explore their inner self while under the influence of certain chemicals.
There is no way to explain what happens to consciousness during these experiences but Alan Watts does an incredible job at giving an idea.One of the virtues of this book in comparison to something like The Doors of Perception (Huxley) is that Watts does not hesitate to express the sentiments that come about which aren't wholly...enjoyable.
He talks about the really frightening things that pass through your head once your subconscious mind has led you in a certain direction.
Alan Watts Effs the inEffable: Part 435
After all, how it would look like can be found by listening to his recordings or reading his books.The book The Joyous Cosmology surprised me above all opinions that you will not hear, or you will not see anywhere else.
Ostatně jak by to asi vypadalo se dá zjistit už jen při poslechu jeho nahrávek, anebo při čtení jeho knih.Kniha The Joyous Cosmology mě překvapila především názory, které jen tak nikde jinde neuslyšíte, nebo neuvidíte, anebo krásným hraním si se slovy, které mě již v krátkém odstavci dokázali přenést do úplné jiného světa, ať už toho našeho fyzického, anebo toho pro většinu populace skrytého, který se nám pan Watts snažil tak představit.
Paradoxně mně prolog a epilog dali víc než hlavní pasáž knihy.
Common sense tells me that it is the "intelligence" of the seed to have just such delicate antennae of silk that, in an environment of wind, it can move.
True, the seed does not intend to move itself with the wind, but neither did I intendo to have arms and legs."Descriptions of powerful and deep insights only possible during a psychedelic trip are what the meat and potatoes of The Joyous Cosmology is.
I'm not at all sure if anything from this book stuck with me for good, but I'm not even sure if it's supposed to, in the same way that powerful psychedelic trips are fleeting and strong cosmological realisations during them feel like dreams after the trip is over.
I feel like it would be impossible to review this book without comparing it to The Doors of Perception.
Watts himself mention the book in the first sentence of the preface and he then write that "...the time is ripe for an account of some of the deeper , or higher, levels of insight that can be reached through these consciousness-changing drugs..." Unfortunately I feel like Watts fail in this task.
Unlike Huxley's sharp description of his experience Watts convey the feeling of someone on drugs, not someone who've reached a higher understanding.
I would have loved to have seen Watts write fiction, because his use of metaphor and analogy is inspiring.Ostensibly this is a book about a philosopher taking psychedelic drugs.
While his views on drugs are interesting and probably ahead of his time, that's not the centrepiece of this book for me.
For me, what makes this a great read is that the universe is being described by somebody who seems to be in both perfect understanding and absolute awe of it.
A lot of people who want to understand the universe start with popular science books; in my opinion they'd be better off starting here.
Alan Watts is arguably one of the more important writers of the past century.
He brings all of his theological experience to bear in this book.This book follows in the steps of Aldous Huxley's The Doors of Perception, but goes to a whole new elevation.
Watts held a doctorate in Divinity and a Masters in Theology, and was well versed in religions of East and West.
The search for and acceptance of the self, as well as the spiritual way, permeate his work.
This work, dealing with his epiphanies and drudgeries while taking perception enhancing psychedelics, is necessary reading for any who wish to understand these drugs as a whole.
Another from Alan Watts, creator rest his soul, that is just unbelievably well done. This book further opened my eyes to things I had already seen, but had never understood, or connected. I wouldn't say this book really "taught" me anything, but it was more of a reaffirmation of many of my beliefs. I would highly recommend this to anyone who has had a positive experience with LSD.
The essay is punctuated by trippy pictures that would be even more impressive if they were in full color rather than black and white.
This builds on Huxley’s  Doors of Perception and uses Watts characteristic perspicacity and lyricism to dig even deeper.There are some interesting passages of a page or two that make for good stand-alone recitation pieces.
And Watts is always quotable.
The collection of trippy pictures seems less impressive now that a similar or better collection could be found on the internet with an easy search.
Having read the, Doors of Perception, by Aldous Huxley, I have a baseline for consideration of, Joyous Cosmology.
If pressed for time I recommend Joyous Cosmology as an extremely efficient and beautifully written depiction of psychedelic states of mind and the associated critical observations by eminent authorities.
Much is to be gained with the literary exploration of such naturally and chemically induced states of mind.
There can be great advantage to vicariously explore alternate realms and let the imagination work its magic.
The practical benefits of natural plant based psychoactive substances and micro-dosing LSD are proven regarding addiction and depression.
Really need your input on this review.
Hopefully it helps.
:) I still can't figure whether the author is really smart or just trying to present himself as really smart.
In the end the book is about him tripping hard on some really intense psychedelics.
The philosophy is certainly debatable, which more often seems spontaneous and not really thought over deeply.I read the first half of the book re reading bit by bit to actually decipher what the author wanted the reader to understand.
Does the book deserve a 3+ star?
Or you'd second this review?
Nice book.A book for someone who has enough experience in this arena..:) watts has tried to explain something which can never be put in words. It is a pictorial book where watts has tried to explain everything images in an altered state of conciousness or a mystical state. Anyone who has done few experience can reasonate with his words.
Beautifully written; much of the book reads like a conversation with Alan, with copious amounts of love and laughter, and amused bewilderment with powerful drugs and powerful stated of mind. best read a couple days in advanced of taking a psychedelic, preferably in Golden Gate park in the springtime.
If you read this you'll find that almost every other paragraph contains an extremely insightful and powerful idea that is worth writing down and reading again later. Alan Watts has an incredible ability to explain his experiences and thoughts in ways that are easily comprehensible even for people who have never explored any kind of psychedelic experience.
This is a truly wonderful book, I wouldn't recommend it for anyone who hasn't had a psychedelic experience, as it will sound like the ramblings of an insane man, but for those who have, you will truly understand the beauty in Alan's words
it gets more Tangled when u go deeper.
It was good craic trying to visualize Alan Watts tripping balls in the 60s when reading this book.3* due to a slow start, but interesting when he's dancing with unicorns.
It is quite commendable, how Watts manages to put into words these complex experiences.
Ouf this one is amazing.
Awesome. It was so entertaining and perfectly articulated that I couldn't help but read it all in one sitting. The best trip report ever written.
This is a fascinating read. Lots of interesting insights into consciousness, self, and existence.
Kocham Pana, Panie Watts. Ta książka powinna znaleźć się w kanonie lektur szkolnych.
Particularly, Alan watts spread the philosophical ideas of Zen Buddhism in North America.
Providing that I have an affinity towards Eastern religions and philosophy, I had to read this book.
Alan Watt's Joyous Cosmology was an engaging read.
Watts, whose own journey from his English upbringing to Zen Buddhism is chronicled in “In My Own Way” and who authored a good many books on this and other subjects in his life, experimented with LSD, mescaline and psilocybin as part of his search for changes in consciousness and possibly religious experience. His book is both an objective evaluation of the drugs in question and a record of his own experiences with them although more the latter than the former. It’s an enjoyable read.
This was the last of Watts' books I had on my list to read, and I was understandably excited given the subject matter treated by one of my favorite thinkers.
It sometimes reads pretty dry, when he uses very esoteric words to create a sort of poetry of sound instead of actually trying to convey a point.
But in other places he raises such good observations and describes the altered thought process so clearly that the rest of the book more than makes up for it.
It's an important Watts book for any fan of his to have in their collection, esp.
This book was my first exposure to the anthology of Mr. Watts.
I admire his eloquence and thoroughly enjoyed his account of his personal mystical experiences.
I had to re-read many paragraphs several times for many of them were hard to take in and would take long to digest.
Nonetheless, I would assume some native speakers may struggle with his paragraphs in a similar way.
I also enjoyed his well-articulated metaphors.
It seems to me that this book would flow naturally after reading The Doors of Perception.
Undoubtedly a must-read for anyone interested in the topic.
I was very much looking forwardto reading this book as it is the only collaberation that I know of between my two favorite thinkers ever...Ram Dass (wrote the introduction in the book) and Alan Watts.
Also, I think that due to the nature of the writings (memoirs written by Watts while on psycadelics) I was ready for the most insightful stuff ever from him.
Truth be told...this book reads like a random piecemeal buffet of some of his other writings.
That said, this book will remain as one of my favorites of my entire collection due to the aformentioned collaboration.
The experiencia that Watts depicts is an extremely vivid scenery full of purposeful patterns that are the basic units of life.
We come from this unknown mass of energy that we are all so closely interrelated with one another.
Sometimes, the void described by religious monks are pegged as full detachment from life; however, it is the complete opposite.
It is a detachment of physical meaning and a readiness of flexible adaptability.
But then again, we need polarity in order to derive meaning and contrast from things and events.
