https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/31450633-the-breakdown
Here, she fails.The story begins with Cass taking a shortcut home down a dark, rural road, against her husband's advice.
After briefly considering asking if the woman needs any help, Cass drives on and goes home.
The pool of suspects is too small; there are so few characters in the book, and many readers will be immediately suspicious of the culprit (honestly, they seem shady as hell).Also, because everything is built up around solving the mystery, the getting there wasn't that interesting.
You might even be starting to suspect the answers before beginning if you (view spoiler)[read the author's previous book (hide spoiler)].Blog | Facebook | Twitter | Instagram | Youtube
Reading?It boils down to an exhilarating execution: The quick pacing; the heavy buildup of anticipation; the spark of mistrust in everyone, and the growing fragility of the main protagonist…Cass Cass is literally having a mental breakdown after the murder of a local woman is discovered…a woman she could possibly have helped.
Because, like it or not, you’re sitting shotgun on the roller coaster of Cass's emotions.
My only problem is what to read after this…*Arc provided by publisher via NetGalley in exchange for an honest review*
Cass stops in front of the car to see if the woman indicates that she needs help.
Eventually Cass decides the woman must have already called for help, so she continues on her way home.
What's worse is Cass realizes she knows this woman.
With everything going on Cass is desperate to know....WHO KILLED JANE?But then something happens.
She wants to know who is behind the constant phone calls and if it's connected to what happened to Jane.
There were times that I started getting annoyed with Cass, but when I imagined something like this happening to me?
Let me preface my review by saying, I was not one of those readers that was over the moon for this author’s first book, Behind Closed Doors.
While I liked the characters, especially memorable Millie, and found myself engrossed in the storyline, the execution didn’t wow me; in fact, I felt there was something major missing.
I tried to pacify myself with the thought that Behind Closed Doors was only my first encounter with B.A. Paris' storytelling, and even though they say first impressions are everything, I figured I should check my skepticism at the door and give the author the benefit of the doubt.
Now I know people who like dear little Cass are going to get their hackles up because I’m bad-mouthing her, but I’m sorry, I just wanted her to shut up.
I guess I couldn’t feel any tension because little miss smarty pants here thought she knew exactly what was happening (it’s only fitting that I had half a comeuppance).
They are spoilers, though, so I’ll hide them.(view spoiler)[-Not sure I buy that Cass wouldn’t call the police immediately when she discovered what was going on.
(hide spoiler)]I’m really bummed (and surprised) that I didn’t like this book.
the next day, it is all over the news: the woman she saw was found murdered in her car right where cass left her.
between the weight of her secrets and the fear that she will end up as helpless as her mother, cass' mental state worsens as the long empty days of summer stretch on; she's preoccupied, forgetful, paranoid, and she begins to suspect she was seen by the killer that night, and is his next target.
The main character, Cass is a teacher who, after leaving a party, drives down a poorly lit, wooded road and sees a car stopped on the side of a road with a woman inside.
Cass stops in front of it and tries to get the woman’s attention to see if she is alright but decides not to get out of her own car in case it’s a trick as she is a woman alone and has always been told not to do so.
If you want to read a book you can’t put down, that will keep you on the edge of your seat from the second you pick it up, till the moment you put it down, this is it.
Cass is about to make the worst decision of her life when she decides to take a shortcut home on a dark and stormy night.
The next morning she discovers that the woman was later found dead in the car - and had been brutally murdered!Cass is beside herself with guilt, could she have saved this woman?
or would she herself have been murdered if she'd stopped to help?Her decision that night has impacted badly on her health and she becomes really forgetful, forgetting even the simplest of things.
Then she starts receiving silent phone calls and believes whoever murdered the woman must have seen her that night, and is now watching her!Oh Boy!
Everything changes for Cass when she starts getting “strange” calls from someone, which she suspects to be from the one who killed the woman in the woods.'The Breakdown' was, most of all, an addictive read.
As 'Behind Closed Doors', the other book by this author, this one had a realistic vibe that made me think, keeping me at the edge of my seat the entire time.If you are looking for a fast-paced, twisted, page-turner psychological thriller, with a captivating plot and interesting characters, look no further and try this awesome read!Find me on:
Yikes!When those ol' marbles start rollin' around inside your head and they seem to shift and move back and forth as if on cue........you know you're in trouble.......big trouble.Cass Anderson feels that crazy rotation.
Instinct tells her to get home quickly.The next morning Cass finds out that a woman had been murdered on that same road the night before.
Is this what awaits Cass or something far more menacing?B.A. Paris does it again with The Breakdown.
If you read, Behind Closed Doors, you know that Paris has both hands tightly on the wheel taking you on some mighty slippery slopes.
I know, so many four and five star reviews and this one sort of disappointed me.
I wanted so bad to love this book.
She sees the headlights of a car, stopped on the side of the road, and barely notices a woman sitting in it, she does not stop to help her.
I kept turning the pages till the end, curious to find out what was going on.
It kept me intrigued from the beginning to the end.I want to thank NetGalley, B.A. Paris, and the publisher for a copy of this book in exchange for an honest review.
I can't go into details, without spoilers, but she added a new twist I've not seen used before that I found quite clever, and like her previous novel, "The Breakdown" was also a very fast read.I would put this book into the same category that I put Paula Hawkins' "Into The Water." I'm creating a new shelf on my profile page called 'the terrible twos.' This shelf is for best selling authors' second books which I felt were rushed to publishing too quickly to capitalize on their previous successes.
Even though this book did not work for me, I would definitely read the author's next book.
One quick shortcut home through the woods after a night out with friends turns Cass’ life upside down.
When she passes a car parked on the side of the road she hesitates, maybe the woman needs help?
That is until the next morning, when she wakes to hear that a woman was killed in her car last night on the same road.
Could it be the same woman who she came across?
Highly recommend!Can’t wait to read B.A. Paris’ latest release Bring Me Back which is sitting anxiously on my book shelf whispering “read me next”!!
A Traveling Sister read with Brenda 🤗
One night in the middle of a huge rainstorm, she takes a shortcut home through the woods (in her car, not with her picnic basket), even though she promised her husband she would avoid that route.
Then Cass realizes this could be a scam of some sort, one which might leave her vulnerable in the middle of the woods on a rainy night, with no mobile service to call for help.
Cass is utterly wracked by guilt, but she can't admit to her husband that she took the shortcut.
While it took a little while for the tension to build, once it started she didn't let up, which is the mark of a good thriller.
I know, I'm picky. But, c'mon people! This book features the most irritating, frustratingly whiney main character in all of the domestic suspense books I've ever read. Not to mention she's so gullible and trusting of her smart ass husband. I just couldn't stand it any more.And the plot? B-O-R-I-N-G. So disappointed in this. I really don't understand the 4 or 5 star ratings this one received. Thank goodness I saw some people felt as I do. ICK. Don't waste your time.
I was reading it everywhere and anywhere which was annoying the heck out of my husband.THE BREAKDOWN by B.A. PARIS is an interesting, thrilling, suspenseful, and cleverly written psychological thriller that takes you on a very emotional and apprehensive tale here questioning the psyche of our main protagonist, Cass.
Is she really having a breakdown, early onset dementia, or is there something more sinister at work here?B.A. PARIS delivers an impressive, tense, and mind-blowing story here that was executed at breakneck speed grabbing my attention from the very first page and didn’t let go until the very last word.
3.5 Stars The Breakdown is a suspense-filled psychological thriller about a woman who is slowly having a nervous breakdown brought on by a car that breaks down.While driving home late one night in the midst of a storm, Cass decides to take a shortcut through isolated back roads.
However, she forgets about the woman and the next morning she wakes to discover that the woman was murdered.Cass’s forgetfulness begins to haunt her.
She begins to forget making plans with friends and her husband.
She forgets that she ordered things online.
She forgets how the appliances in her home work.
Now imagine seeing a stranded motorist, waffling on the decision to stop and offer assistance or pass on by, then ultimately deciding it was safer to drive on past, especially since the driver didn’t appear to be injured and did not indicate they wanted help.
Knowing he would be furious with her for taking such a risk, and feeling like a horrible human being for ignoring the driver, she never tells anyone what she witnessed.She can’t stop dwelling on it, though, and the guilt nearly eats her alive.
Cass Anderson is rushing to get home during a torrential downpour and promises her husband not to take the unsafe shortcut home and to drive careful.
She decides to take the shortcut anyway because the sooner she gets home the better, right?
She decides not to stop because she's rushing home.
What's more is Cass knew the woman that was killed.
I've seen reviews that are swayed based on how they felt about the author's first book.
From what I can gather, the two books are quite different from each other yet still both manage to be standout thrillers.
Through the heavy storm she glances into the car to see a woman who shows no signs of distress and decides to drive off without stopping.The following day, news comes in that the same woman was brutally murdered the night before which sets off guilt, fear and paranoia and after subsequent events leaves her questioning her own sanity.
She begins to lose control of her life and fears that she will be the next victim of the murderer.This is a book full of suspense and will make you want to read more and more to find out what happens next.
Every bit as good as Behind Closed Doors, if not even better! I tore through this as breakneck speed. Wow!
Copy furnished by Net Galley for the price of a review.As a fierce storm rages, Cass fights to maintain control of her car as she makes her way home on a dark and winding road.
Desperate to get home and out of the storm, Cass drives on, vowing to call the police to alert them of a possible breakdown of a vehicle by the side of the road.
Next day, the news is full of the murder of the woman in her car.
Cass is convinced the killer of the woman in the car is after her now.
This book grabs you at the start.
And it's totally understandable that Cass doesn't stop when she comes across a car stopped along the side of the road, given the location, worries that it could be trap and the miserable weather.
But the guilt compounds the next morning when she learns the woman in the car was later murdered.
For a story that started so promisingly, I felt it dragged in the middle.
Unlike a lot of mysteries, I started having a strong inkling of who the guilty party was early on.
Not just the car, but Cass’s mental state.
Some people may not enjoy the downright frantic tone, but I was hooked!
/ Does she need medication??Cass saw a woman broke down on the side of a wooded road in the pouring rain.
She didn't want to get out of the car at night (especially on the dark Blackwater Lane) and decided the woman wasn't in distress so she left and continued home.
The next morning, Cass has heard that a woman was murdered around the time she pulled over on Blackwater Lane.
This book reminded me of the tone of A Stranger in the House by Shari Lapena.
My sincere appreciation to Edelweiss, St. Martin’s Press, and Author, B.A. Paris for early access to The Breakdown for an honest review.
I watched as Cass Anderson’s world fell apart and was so glad it wasn’t happening to me but deep down I worried that it could.
Cass is either suffering the mother of all mental breakdowns or she has early onset memory disease.
Neither is good news for Cass who up until the moment she took a shortcut home was leading an envious life, good marriage, good friends, good job.
That doesn't always spoil a mystery or thriller for me because sometimes I'm happy to read about interesting characters or see how the author puts all the pieces together.
But in this case, it was mostly frustrating because if I could see what was going on, it was pretty implausible that main character Cass couldn't see it.
Besides guessing what was going on, my main complaint is that I prefer my female leads in these types of books to be strong and smart even if flawed.
I really liked this author's first book, but it featured a strong smart woman trapped in an untenable situation who cleverly finds her way out.
Title queries aside, I completely enjoyed my second ride with B.A. Paris.Cass is our central protagonist in The Breakdown.
As Cass begins to question her mental state and her memory, the reader is left to decide if Cass is simply suffering a breakdown – or is something more sinister at work?As with Behind Closed Doors, the debut novel released by B.A. Paris last year, The Breakdown is a suspense infused read.
Paris does a good job of setting many of the characters in The Breakdown up for a fall, as well as leaving us to consider their integrity.
Cass starts receiving random phone calls with no one speaking and feels like she is being watched.
ehhh I felt like some of the things in this novel were just NOT believable (like Behind Closed Doors).
I feel like the author could have done some AMAZING things with this storyline but it just fell flat for me.
I do feel I liked it a little better then Behind Closed Doors but again just kinda meh.
I felt like it was a little bit predictable based on the small set of characters in this book (Rachel, John, Cass, and Matthew).

I've just finished reading 'The Breakdown' by B A Paris, a psychological thriller by the author who wrote 'Behind Closed Doors'. I didn't want to put this book down because I loved it. Towards the end I had butterflies in my tummy it was so good.
