https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/116295.Guards_Guards_
I've read virtually all of Terry Pratchett's books but Guards! Guards!, Men At Arms and The Fifth Elephant [all related to each other] remain firm favourites. Sam Vimes is your typical grumpy copper, Nobby Nobbs and Sergeant Colon always raise a laugh - and who can forget Carrot and his 'protectives'? Pratchett's imagination is quite incredible. Don't know how he does it but wish I did.
I don't read science fiction or fantasy. Some might say that Pratchett is a fantasy writer. I say that he is a humorous satirist. This is the book that started my love of his writing, with at least a giggle on nearly every page, and "the sentence" that made me want to read anything he writes... ever... for as long as he can, in the face of his early onset Alzheimer's. And this is True Satire, not mere parody, but human foibles on parade, entertaining screeds, and one book with a marvelous meditation on morality.
What can I say except that the Night Watch is one of his best creations in the Discworld realm. Vimes is a hoot (a drunken one), Nobby makes you a) want to check your wallet to see if it's still there and b) itchy, that scene with Colon and the arrow with the one in a million chance says it all about the man, and then there's Carrot. I don't think I've ever seen a more appropriate name to fit a character.
I am a major Discworld fan. The Ankh Morpork City Watch series is one of my favorite series, being a retired cop. Great characters.
The characterisation was brilliant and the humour as ever perfectly on point. The dramatisation of this was so well cast and it really brought the book alive.I can see why Guards, Guards is many Pratchett fans favourite.
Hilarious! Love the metaphors.
40 of so books, different collections, some audio, it's pratchett, read and heard some as well, all. Dates wrong.
This is in contrast to the usual deterioration of science fiction and fantasy series as the series lengthens, especially for series like the Discworld which are more groups of linked works set in a common world rather than a planned sequence.The plot is a simple one concerning an attempt to sieze power in the city of Ankh-Morpork by summoning a dragon to terrorise the population, then arranging for a hero to kill it and be crowned king, with the plotter as power behind the throne.
In true Terry Pratchett form, this play adaptation was silly and playful and had me laughing and rolling my eyes. A quick easy read, but one that has me desperate to see it actually played out on a stage. Well done!
ExcellentI saw this in Brighton in 1999 and don't remember being that impressed with it. However this script is much funnier than I remember (there seems to be much more of TP's humour left) and I enjoyed reading it. Briggs' notes were very interesting as well.
great book lots of fun to read
Epic.
The first book of Terry Pratchett I've read. Well, as far as he is my favourite autor, I might say that I love this book.
Brilliant - I love Constable Angua, she's fab! Constable Carrot is such a well written character I could almost invite him round for tea.
This book is the first i red in diskworld, so i felt in love with Pratchett!!!Excuse me for my english:)) it's my foreign language:)
Great book. It did not end the way I expected, it was better. There were many laugh out loud moments.
I am biased as I like all of Terry Pratchett's books and am currently working through them one by one, but this one is a great comment on social convention in a complex society.
My favourite discworld series
Love Discworld!!
The first one I had read in the Discworld series, don't really remember it anymore, I remember it made me lolz muchly.
A great book by a fab author!
Awesome voice actors bringing Ankh Morpork to life. And DEATH, of course.
Terry Pratchett is one of my favorite authors. Absurd, satirical, lunatic silliness abound. A lovely, twisted look at the world.
Рекомендую слушать в озвучке от digig
loved
My first book of Discworld cicle.One of my favorite book.
Great read.
I really enjoyed this one. It really cracked me up in a few spots. This wasn't my first Terry Pratchett and it will not be my last.
Loved it, like all his books. Fascinatingly hilarious!
One of my first Terry Pratchett books I've read - definitely enjoy the world he creates. Don't find it as funny as many other people seem to but will definitively be reading more from him.
