https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/158119.If_You_Could_See_Me_Now
What did I think? WHAT DID I THINK?! Well, if I told you that I sat on the bed and cried exactly like this for about five to ten minutes after I'd closed the book, does that put it in perspective for you?  Front Cover. I really, really liked the front cover for 'If You Could See Me Now', it was simple, natural, and actually depicts a huge part in the book. When I first saw it I thought it was lovely anyway because I love the thought of making a wish with dandelions and then blowing them to watch
Now, with little experience of love and affection, Elizabeth tries her damned hardest to bring Luke up in the best way she knows.
She uses Elizabeth's car whenever she feels like it, drinks until the sun comes up and is happy to leave her little boy in the care of her sister, rather than taking on the responsibility herself.
He is the one who Ivan links on to, and who helps Elizabeth realise that she can love, she doesn't realise that she has it in her.Now, out of all of the characters in this book, this guy has to be my ultimate favourite!
I thought I'd make it simple and just list a few facts about If You Could See Me Now:1. It is not a typical romance novel.2. It is not to everyone's taste.3. It's written for people with imagination.4. It has made me laugh and cry in the most unexpected way.5. It's 'sprinkled with magic'.6. It taught me that sometimes you just need to let go and simply enjoy.7. It is an indescribably touching story.8. It made me want to have Ivan as best friend, if only for few days.
Then Elizabeth starts to see him, (she thinks he's the father of her nephew's friend) only she doesn't know he's invisible, and of course nobody else can see him, so they all think she's crazy, but she doesn't even suspect anything which is clue #1 of how stupid she is.
Now at first, I thought Ivan wasn't real, that was all in her mind, kind of like in Fight Club, but I'd be giving Ahern too much credit...but nope...he was actually an invisible person who worked with these other imagainary friends.
This was my first Cecelia Ahern read and I sincerely hope it won't be my last because it was just so amazing.
The concept of the novel was so beautiful and innocent.When I read the blurb, I had no idea there was a sense of magic about it.
Oh, how wrong I was.Ahern took me on a journey whereby I witnessed things I hadn't thought about since childhood.
Even if you're in your thirties, having to sit in your office facing the blank wall ahead, at least sit there and use your imagination!
It's his favourite by far.Recommended for everyone lacking a little magic in their everyday life!
This book needs to be read with no inhibitions. It was a great fantasy read for this time of year. The audio was well done with great melodic music, Irish accents, etc. At first I didn't care much for this book ..... *mild spoiler*..... no book with an imaginary friend can beat Memoirs of an Imaginary Friend, no book. LOL! Then this book took a whole different twist on love, letting go, and finding happiness. Wish it ended differently but it made sense.
How my heart went out to that little mite, who really only wanted her to show some affection and have some fun.I just loved the idea of Ivan and his fellow imaginary friends in some sort of countrywide network, going from lonely person to lonely person offering invisible friendship, but I would have liked to delve into his world deeper.
Ugh. I really struggled with reading this book.
It took me so much longer than it should have just because I could not get into it!
:) I have no problem with a book being a little unrealistic, for the sake of a good love story.
:) But in this case, I had a problem with a woman falling in love with an "imaginary friend" who is in fact real, but not really.
I felt like I was reading a childrens book.
I love Cecelia Ahern's first 2 books though, so I plan on reading her other books as well.
This book sat on my bookshelf for quite a while...waiting for me to be ready to read it.
I flew through the book unable to sit it aside.
The story is so sweetly touching.
It's playful and lighthearted yet full of deep emotion and caring.
I couldn't wait to finish the book to pass it along to a friend.
This is a story about coming into your own and letting go of the deep seeded beliefs and fears that get in your way.
You finish it and it's like you're sitting inside a cloud of fairy dust...soft and sparkling and full of awe.
Cecelia Ahern's writing is very good, but in these scenes it is simply brilliant.
It's about letting go and finding your imagination, but then you stop and think that it is the imagination of one person - the writer - who has created this wonderful story.
She even makes sure we can say the lovely Irish name "Saoirse", Elizabeth's troubled younger sister.Maybe a story like this HAS to take place in Ireland, where the fantasy element feels so natural you simply go with the flow.
Even as Elizabeth comes to grips with the sadness in her past, it feels liberating.
I did not see the "twist" coming in the middle of the story.
Malo me primila Cecelia Ahern groznica pa sam nakon Knjige sutrašnjice uzela ovu u ruke jer iskreno govoreći nisam znala što bih čitala dalje.Često mi se zna dogoditi takva situacija.
Očekivanja su mi bila veća.Bez obzira na to što mi nije savršena knjiga je i dalje dobra i kvalitetna.
I sve bi tu bilo super da taj prijatelj Ivan nije izmišljeni lik.
Ali ne, čuje se samo muk i gotovo poželite začuti neku buku koja bi skrenula pozornost s boli.Ako i ima buke, ona je unutra.
Vrištite samo iznutra i nitko vas ne može čuti.“ Str 204
And two, the Prime Minister's daughter wrote a book at 21.
She tends to drone on about certain things (like how Elizabeth's mother left the family and how Elizabeth is very neat and precise and particular, and I really don't need to know about all the types of coffees in all the countries the character had been to) but not detailed enough about other things.
I didn't really like the characters, they weren't very well formed.
Still, I didn't like the characters.
The character of Ivan, the imaginary friend, was at times really childlike in an annoying way.
There are some books which makes you happy just like that without any genuine reason behind it, this was one of those for me. I really like this imaginary world of happiness which Cecelia Ahern created and yes it was indeed a modern fairy tale with a practical ending which was actually the best part. Whenever I used to open this book it only took me to another world, a world which I was glad to be a part of.
Si pudieras verme ahora es una lectura muy tierna, divertida y con un toque mágico y especial que me atrapó desde la primera página. Cecelia Ahern nos deleita con unos personajes entrañables y algo peculiares, y una historia de amor diferente que nos enseñará una valiosa lección.http://lavidasecretadeloslibros.blogs...
like um I'm not writing a freaking review for this, I feel lightheaded from all that crying and all I want to do is throw this book at a wall, this book has ruined me.
I can't even *cries*, like no I can't even cry anymore I'm all out if freaking tears and all I have is my heart breaking into a million pieces beyond repair every time I think of THIS FUCKING BOOK (view spoiler)[ LIKE I STARTED CRYING FROM THE 75% MARK EVER SINCE OPAL'S GUY DIED LIKE GOD FUCKING DAMMNIT I DID NOT NEED THIS PAIN, AND THEN IT HAPPENS, LIKE SHE CANT EVEN FREAKING SEE HIM ANYMORE, AND THE LAST LINE IS WHAT BROKE MY HEART THE MOST  (hide spoiler)]on a side note I wanted to see saorise get better but I'm fine I don't need anymore scenes that'll make me cry I AM FUCKING FINE.
I usually don't just pick up a book from the shelf--I like them to be recommended or on a special table, but I'm glad I did.Elizabeth, an independent, fierce, rigid person, who is raising her carefree sister's six year old son, is on the pathway to a very lonely and loveless existence until she meets Ivan.
I personally thought that at 28, Elizabeth would have enough sense to know that the baby stood a better chance at being adopted then being raised by an unwilling aunt who resented his existence.
I didn't particulary like how the book ended either because it left a lot of open questions.
This is the second book I read by Cecelia Ahern, a long time ago, the first one was P.S. I love you, before the movie came out.
Cecelia has captivated me, in all her books.
I've learned to live my life just like her, trying to keep everything under control, needing the stability a quiet life can give you, getting by day after day.
But like Ivan said to Elizabeth the more you try to simplify things,the more you complicate them.
That just complicates everything, and you are left stucked in a moment watching your life go by, but not living it.
بعضی برای چند دقیقه تو زندگی تو می مونن، بعضی برای چند ماه و بعضی دیگه هم برای یک سال، بقیه هم برای تمام عمرفرقی نمی کنه اون چه کسی باشه، کسی که ملاقاتش می کنی، یه روز ازش جدا می شی.ممکنه وقت رفتنش بخشی از تو رو با خودش ببره یا اثری از خودش رو پیش تو جا بگذاره.اگه این تاثیر، مثبت باشه، باید همیشه ممنون شانست باشیپ.ن.
ایوان یک دوست نامرئی بود.
ایوان خیلی لطیف بود.
ولی ایوان این حالت رو برام نداشت.بنجامین هم شخصیت جالبی داشت.
نه تنها کارهای عجیب الیزابت رو مسخره نمی کرد که حتی باهاش همراه هم می شد.
This book is different than most of the books i have read , it has quite an imagination , the elemen
Note: this review is written in both languages, Arabic and English.----------------------------------ملاحظة: هذه المراجعة مكتوبة باللغتين: العربية والإنجليزية.--------------------------------------------------------------------قالت لي صديقتي: هي أجملُ ما قرأتُ حتى هذه اللحظة.فأعلنت أعماقي ولادة سؤال خفيٍّ فضوليّ جديد: هل هي جميلة إلى هذا الحد؟لم يكن لديّ جوابٌ على سؤالي بعد بالطبع، لكنّ عيني صديقتي مي كانتا تقولان الكثير وهي تتحدث عنها كما تتحدث أم عن ابنها الذي تحبّه وتقول رأيها فيه دون اكتراث بالعالم أجمع.كانت عيني تؤلمني في تلك الفترة، وكانت هذه تجربتي الأولى مع الروايات الإنجليزية المكتوبة بالإنجليزية، فقد اعتدت قراءة الأدب الأجنبي مترجمًا فيما سبق.ورغم إجادتي للغة الإنجليزية إلا أنني ما استطعت قراءتها بسهولة في البدء فقد اعتدت قراءة الإنجليزية العلمية بعيدًا عن الأدب.ولا بأس بالاعتراف بما واجهته فالبدايات صعبةٌ دائمًا.على أية حال، بعد محاولات قليلة استطعت، تخطّي عقبة اللغة، والحمدلله، وبدأتُ أبحر.قراءة هذه الرواية كان دائمًا بمثابة الإبحار.قابلتُ فيها مواضع كثيرة أجبرت عينيّ على أن تغلقا كي أسافر بعقلي وقلبي إلى عالم ثانٍ بعيد جدًا..
The book welcomed me into the "agency" of imaginary friends.:P And I thought if this group really existed, I would like to have an imaginary friend as a companion-- to right my wrongs, to serve as a company when life gets too silent, to poke and tell me to enjoy life, or to let me see how constant change really is.
(please, read the book so you won't blame her :P) Ivan was Lizzie's instrument of CHANGE.
I would really love Ivan and Lizzie to hook up and be happy together but I understood why Ms. Ahern didn't let it.
Πολύ γλυκό παραμυθάκι!!!
Once she's grown up, Elizabeth's sister (I'm not even attempting to type the name..it's pretty but I'd spell it wrong) any way, her sister is just as awful as her mother and abandons her son Luke, leaving Elizabeth to raise him..With no room in her life for love or comforts, she's quite awful to Luke really, sure he gets all the material things a child needs, but he's been abandoned by his mother, all that boy needs is an adult that loves him completely and as Elizabeth isn't stepping up to the job...Ivan does instead.Ivan is an imaginary friend, that isn't imaginary at all, hes just invisible to everyone except his best friend at the time.
Both of them have touched my heart in a way rarely any book has.If You Could See Me Now is a book which would make even the cynic of cynics sob like a baby.Let me give you some background.If You Could See Me Now is a gentle tale; a love story with a twist.Elizabeth is a very uptight and no nonsense lady who has been stuck with her sister’s six year old son Luke, who is a really kind hearted and a very cute character.Elizabeth’s impossible sister, Saoirse, is one of those characters who are inflicted upon her family through no fault of their own.
It's so different from what I usually read and the story is written so beautifully.
He is an unforgettable character and easy to fall in love with.
The changes he brought in Elizabeth were remarkable.
I find it amazing how just one person can change lives even after years of restraint and rigid discipline.
Sometimes love is right there, it's just that people can see it or not.
This book was a sweet story, that will leave you smiling and will even break your heart and leave tears in your eyes!
Definitely a book to read to those who appreciate romantic softness and gentle cuteness.
4 zvezdice za izmisljene prijatelje i izvini mama sto si se traumirala zbog mene, nije to nista strasno :D
She also has her family stuff, you know..issues etc, that leads her to have custody of her nephew due to her sister being a drunk who would rather run around town (this takes place in Ireland) than be a mum to her son.And Elizabeths nephew, Luke, age 6, has an imaginary friend.
And this imaginary friend, Ivan is something that Elizabeth has dismissed (like most people) as something to be rid of or ignored to hope that it just passes.
I've not read a Cecelia Ahern book before this (I've seen the film P.S I love you years ago and found that touching), and must admit I was expecting more of a generic chick lit/romance kind of novel.
I won't elaborate too much as I don't want to spoil it, although you'll get the jist of it within a few chapters.I think I was expecting a kind of Marian Keyes style of writing, minus Marian's humour, and I guess that's why I haven't read one of Cecelia Ahern's books before, because I thought they'd pale in comparison or just be generic chick lit.
I liked this book.
It wasn't entirely what I had expected, but the surprise was a pleasant one.
His playful, adventurous, carefree approach in life matches mine, and the world would be a much better place if there were more people like him in it.
The message this book sends is wonderful.
The world can be a truly magical place if we treat our time in it as such.
About must-do's and should-do's, schedules, appointments and cash-flow.What really matters is the relationships with the people we surround ourselves with and the memories we make as we walk through life.
Foi a temática que me levou a pedi-lo emprestado, mas devo confessar que ficou aquém das minhas expetativas. A escrita não é má, mas as personagens são muito estereotipadas e a história não me surpreendeu, sendo que o final é especialmente previsível e banal.
Mal ein etwas anderes Cecelia Ahern Buch.
