https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/319470.Richard_the_Third
Richard III is my historical boyfriend; I would run headlong into the TARDIS and never look back, just for the chance to go back and look once upon his face.
I don't believe Richard was evil, I don't believe he murdered the Princes in the Tower, and I'll hate Henry VII until the day I die.
I believe Richard was a good man who perhaps should never have been king, a man who believed in justice, loyalty and honesty, and who was more concerned for the common man that any king before or since.
This is one of the most balanced accounts of Richard's life I've ever read and really highlights just how much of what we consider 'history' is the result of centuries of slander, propaganda and obfuscation.
This is the biography which Sharon Kay Penman used as the principal source for her superb novel "The Sunne in Splendour".
Kendall is considered to be one of the most useful and excellent biographers of this much maligned king.
His scholarship is impeccable and his notes are fascinating.
So far as I can tell, he has rounded up all the available contemporary information about Richard and has woven it into a truly fascinating tale which is as engrossing as any fictional account.
Kendall has a real gift for portraying the various characters in this most confusing era of English history.
Even though over 50 years worth of research has outdated some of Kendall's evidence, his overall body of work gives the reader a truer glimpse of Richard the man than from Richard the arch villain.
In the second appendix Kendall gives a historiography surrounding Richard of over the centuries until the publication of his book, which he hopes to be a moderate addition instead of "revisionist." Although the writing and pace are a little dated, Kendall's book is a fine introduction to Richard the man.
Possibly one of the best, if not the standard work, of biography of Richard III. Far from the twisted caricature of Shakespeare or even the propaganda of the Tudors, desperate to legitimise their Regicide, Richard of Gloucester is a man driven by loyalty and obligation. He's not the perfect and kind King some have tried to re-invent him as, but he's far more human than the monster of the Bard.
Kendall describes this far better than I can: "In the coils of circumstance and high place, of opportunity in the guise of duty, of warped memories of the past and cloudy urgencies of the present, Richard had seized the throne and then, very possibly, had done a far more grievous wrong; yet, though these acts cast an ironic shadow they need not cast doubt upon the intense sincerity of his moral feeling." Unfortunately the death of the Princes has overshadowed his many achievements both in battle and in society, the loyalty his subjects felt towards the man who had always treated them so well, and the responsibility Richard felt towards protecting his subjects and their interests.But in the end, ruling well meant little.
I'm rereading this book to refresh my memory of the real Richard III after reading "The Sunne in Splendour." Kendall's assessment of Richard is balanced and fair, based on careful analysis of the existing sources, with the basis for any speculation always carefully explained in the notes. If your idea of Richard comes from Shakespeare or Sir Thomas More, or if you simply like to read about real people in troubled times faced with moral dilemmas and betrayals, you'll enjoy this book, which is not only superbly researched but also as well-written and absorbing as any novel.
And then of course there's the story he has to tell — what a story it is.I knew little about Richard before I came to this book — an awareness of the Shakespeare play and the hunch-backed caricature of popular culture — but such is the power of Kendall's masterly portrait that I was moved to tears by the final pages.
If you have any interest at all in this period — dammit, if you have any interest at all in the frailties of human nature and the struggle for power, then read it.
Just read it.
Over the past few years, I've become addicted to Plantagenet history and particularly Richard III.
Having read several Wars of the Roses history books, other Plantagenet biographies, and numerous historical fiction books on this "better than Hollywood screenwriters" family histories, I was anxious to read this book as it had come highly recommended.
Typically I find most biographies and history books quite dry - too much quoting of sources and jumping around in time rather than in chronological order.
This book was not typical.
And the reading was timely - along with the archeological dig for Richard's remains and the pending results of the DNA testing.
Admittedly I'm on a bit of a medieval English history kick at the moment, but this is excellent (especially if you're a fan of The Sunne in Splendour or The White Queen, as it's clearly important source material for both).It's obvious why this is the definitive biography of Richard III.
Kendall was painstaking in his research and he manages to relate it to the readers in an interesting, not-remotely-dry way.
I really feel like I have an understanding of not just the facts, but also for the characters of so many of the people Kendall focuses on.
Richard is depicted as a loyal brother to Edward IV, providing good government and stability to the north (score one, Ricardians).
However, he is ultimately undone with some lapses in judgement and misplaced trust is those around him, most notably Buckingham.
His critical errors in judgement seem to be with regard to the fate of the Princes and his decision to not marry off Edward's daughters, giving Henry Tudor the means by which to cement his authority after seizing power by force.
However, by seizing the throne, Richard (in the author's view) ultimately doomed the Princes.
I've been reading this book on and off over some months as part of some broader research.I'd recommend it to anyone who wants to read a biography about Richard III.
Some excellent historical fiction has been written about Richard but he is often either reviled (as the dastardly murderer of the princes in the Tower of London) or revered as the noble king slain at the battle of Bosworth.While sympathetic towards Richard, Mr Kendall provides a well written biography which is accessible to non academic readers.
Recommended reading for those who, having read some of the recent historical fiction in which Richard features, want to know more about this period in history.
But this one is a perfect base for one or another books for the "big 4 or big 5" men who helped to change science, philosophy, education, merchandising and trade- even to some extent medicine and art- in that same 15th century crucible.This is long and masterfully done, with most of the book in his brother Edward's reign- but there is an entirely separate appendix for the "case of what happened to the two princes in the Tower" and another appendix for Richard III's "personality study".
Out of all the revisionist biographies of Richard III, this is considered to be the best… so much that I was almost afraid to read it.
Paul Murray Kendall makes you feel so much for Richard that even though you know what to expect, it's tough to swallow when you get there.Still, it's entirely worth it in my opinion.
Richard was a real person, after all, and Paul Murray Kendall never lets the reader forget that.To sum it up: BRILLIANT.
If you have ANY interest in Richard III, you're cheating yourself if you don't read this book.
The best thing this book has going for it is that it is one of the only ones I've read to paint Richard III in a completely neutral -- and sometimes positive -- light.
Kendall strives to repair Richard's shattered reputation, and theorizes that the youngest brother of King Edward IV was motivated purely by a drive to govern England as he felt his brother should have.
This book is DRY.
It was difficult to slog through most of the time.
It's nice to read something positive about Richard III, rather than reading the normal party line of Richard the traitor, lecher, and murderer.

Whether or not Richard really did kill his nephews, this is an outstanding book to read on the subject. Enlightening and unprejudiced--so long as you remember Kendall is consciously trying to see Richard's good side and cannot prove Richard was not guilty of murder. I may not have a high opinion of Richard, necessarily, but I have a soaring opinion of Mr Kendall as a biographer. And who knows...?Maybe Richard was innocent...;)
I read this book for my history class. It had a lot of detailed information on Richard's life that was interesting and helpful. Part of the reason we read this book was to prepare for a debate on whether or not Richard killed his nephews or not. Some of the arguments (many of them) make sense, but others didn't seem quite as clear or reasonable. Overall though, this book was interesting and helpful.
Excellent biography! Meticulous detail and notes explaining all assertions. Kendall gets a little romantic (in the literary sense) once in a while, but it's not overbearing and mostly lets the reader form their own conclusions. Highly recommended for anyone interested in Richard III and the world he lived in.
I had to finally put this book down. There were just too many tiny, unnecessary details that bogged the story down. I don't care that someone was given an annual stipend of 30 pounds, 25 shillings and 13 pence. I just couldn't keep interested in the story because of this incredibly obtuse attention to useless detail.
Excellent biography about one of the most interesting and misunderstood figures in history- dealing with his whole career rather then those last infamous 2 years.
Link to my review of this book:https://flhwnotesandreviews.com/2016/...
Chief among my complaints, however, was that Kendall was willing to analyze the sources when it came to Richard III, but threw Elizabeth Woodville under the proverbial bus by sticking to the classic view of her "pride" and "haughtiness," at one point even calling her stupid (pg.
Also, at times, Kendall's narrative diverged into the imaginary, especially for the Battle of Bosworth, where he went into Richard's head and constructed what he believed the King must have been thinking.
I think it's a fantastic starting point for a comprehensive biography of Richard, England's most contentious monarch.
Kendall's prose is clear and carries the reader right along.
While some points in this book may be a bit dated, his sympathetic view of the reigns of Edward IV and Richard III has been borne out by more recent research.
At times, the book seems to be an apologetic, and I'm not sure that Kendall made his case regarding Richard's role with the princes in the Tower; I think the evidence is inconclusive either way, and Kendall includes a helpful appendix on the topic.
In spite of that, I think that Kendall proves his overarching point on the character of Richard III.
The only reason I couldn't give this five stars is because the author so obviously adores Richard.
However, it doesn't hurt the reading experience at all.
A great read, I'd recommend it extremely.
Kendall has some pitfalls regarding his unwarranted overfamiliarity with Richard, but it's not enough to hurt the nonfiction aspect unless you are completely dumb.
It's a very compelling, informative and fun read.
Wonderfully good treatment of Edward IV, too, who obviously must be covered well in a biography of Richard.
As an academic work of Richard III's eventful and legendary life, this is the most complete rendition I've ever read.
The way in which Kendall portrays Richard from his youth through his short rule as King of England honestly made him so likable and complex.
Usually, the question of "did he or didn't he" kill the two sons of Richard's own brother, Henry IV, takes over the entire 30-something year long life of England's most notorious ruler.
Anyway, I'd certainly call this book the defining piece of Richard III biography, and anyone interested in his life, the period, or the York and Tudor dynasties should put it on their reading list!
Picked it up as it was advertised as the preeminent bio on Richard III.
Been curious and fascinated by his figure since February when they declared that the remains they'd found in Leicester were indeed the late king's - "The King In The Car Park".
As a student of modern poltics, it's been fascinating to try to unravel the Tudor "spin" perpetrated upon Richard III by Shakespeare, Thomas More and others.
Highly recommended for any curious about the life and death of the last Plantagenet king, the last English king to die in battle, on the field at Bosworth, betrayed by turncoat earls and lords.
Incredibly thorough, well referenced, & mostly unbiased. Highly detailed investigation into the life of Richard III. However, a lot of the notes to text contain the personal opinion & embellishments of Kendall, rather than sticking to the sources & facts as they lie. A slight lean to the side of Richard, but made clear that this belief comes from sources.
He makes a good pro-Richard case, although it is a bit older and his writing is somewhat biased. Worth a read if you are interested in the RIII controversy
Good biography of an interesting and much maligned man.
