https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/36448554-bring-me-back
What is it you want Layla?...YOU 1 1/2 stars. I swear I gave it my best shot. I really wanted to love this book. Paris' Behind Closed Doors kept me on the edge of my seat, but her sophomore novel The Breakdown bored me, so I figured two out of three ain't bad, right? Sorry, it's a Meat Loaf kinda morning.But this book is so CHEESY.I'll give it an extra half star for keeping me reading despite rolling my eyes every few pages, but that's the most enthusiasm I can muster for it. The twist/reveal o
And many of those authors have made it more convincing than Paris managed here.Bring Me Back alternates between the past, in which Finn (the narrator) and his girlfriend Layla take a holiday in France and she disappears; the present, in which we find ourselves ten years later with Finn about to marry Layla's sister Ellen; and first person accounts from Layla, where she mostly talks like a comic book villain, figuratively twirling her mustache.
Finn seems like a dick from the get-go (and a dumbass - why would he go meet someone he suspects is a kidnapper?), Ellen and the secondary characters are bland and one-dimensional, and don't even get me started on Layla.
Seriously, if this book had been edible, I would have made myself ill devouring it!
British couple Finn and his girlfriend Layla, are on their way home from a skiing trip in France when he pulls into a secluded, dimly lit area late at night to use the restroom.
Someone claiming to be Layla contacts Finn by email, and also begins leaving Russian dolls outside his house and sending them in the mail.
These dolls have huge significance for Layla and Ellen, but is it really Layla, who’s behind it?My oh my, who’d have thought that Russian dolls could have such frightening significance!
Entertaining but utterly ridiculous!The plot is derived from a soap opera and the main character is a moron. However, it's a fun mindless read!  Unfortunately, I was less than impressed with Bring Me Back. I feel like all the soap opera watching I have done helped me to figure things out rather early on. I was hoping I was wrong, but sadly I was not. When all was revealed, I was laughing and I don’t think I was meant to be. I am capable of suspending disbelief but this goes beyond. I really cou
Entertaining but utterly ridiculous!The plot is derived from a soap opera and the main character is a moron.
However, it's a fun mindless read!
Unfortunately, I was less than impressed with Bring Me Back.
I feel like all the soap opera watching I have done helped me to figure things out rather early on.
I really could have cared less about Finn, Ellen, and Layla.
Peggy the dog was the only character I cared about.
Despite all the issues I had, I did have fun reading this and I enjoyed how the Russian nesting dolls were woven in.
I didn't find the characters particularly likable or well developed; this is a short novel focused on moving the plot along and not particularly on character development, but Paris kept me turning the pages and unable to put the book down.It had started going downhill in "Part Two" for me, but where the story really lost me was "Part Three".
This may be due to the fact that I've read so many thrillers; someone who is newer to the genre and a little less jaded will likely take to the twist much more graciously than I was able to.
I also realized that there was a clue or two thrown in and although I read the words, I missed it but then had my "AHA!" moment a couple of hours after finishing the book.
Finn, is finally ready to move on with his life and has found love again - with Layla's sister, Ellen.
Only three people know about the Russian Dolls: Ellen, Finn and Layla.
The mystery of what really happened the night Layla went missing and who is leaving behind the dolls and sending email messages really drive the story.
But I can say some other *stuff*, so here goes...I’ll start with the positive because life is good: When I open a B.A. Paris novel, I know I’m about to be put under her spell.
I’m ready to be completely transported into the life of a slightly repulsive human who starts reading with the sun and doesn’t stop until she looks up and realizes an entire day has ended with her still in the same pajamas that may or may not have the telltale stains of vanilla-flavored coffee binging.
Years later, Layla’s sister Ellen enters his life and he feels blessed to have another chance at finding love.
But as is so often the case, the past has a nasty habit of finding its way to the surface.If you’ve been reading reviews for this book you know that Russian Dolls make repeated appearances throughout.
I had that rare fluttering of excitement the entire time reading this book.
Cannot wait for her next!!A fantastic Traveling Sister read!
🤗💞Thank you to NetGalley, St. Martin’s Press and B.A. Paris for an ARC to read in exchange for an honest review.

It was an extremely enjoyable, entertaining, fun, and ridiculous psychological thriller novel that had me totally engrossed and interested right from the very first page.
Let’s just say the last line of this book I gave a little whoop and thought it was a good one and thank you B.
A. PARIS delivers a very readable, unique and fun story here with unreliable characters that weaves back and forth in a then and now perspective with short chapters to make this an extremely quick and easy read.So if you are looking for a compulsive read with the help of some Russian Stacking Dolls to solve this mystery then this book is for you!
This is a book that grows in suspense and makes you uneasy, right along with the characters.12 years agoFinn is living the Bachelor life in London when he meets Layla.
Ignoring the gossip from those who remember the story of Layla’s disappearance, Finn and Ellen have created a wonderful, happy life together.
Ellen is Layla’s opposite in so many ways, and yet she is good for Finn, if only he will let her be.
As much as Finn wants to convince himself that Layla is likely dead, her disappearance and lack of finality leaves that small part in his brain that makes him wonder if it is possible she did survive somehow.
Bring Me Back tells the story of 3 main players: Finn, Layla, and Ellen.
Following their wedding announcement, Finn and Ellen begin receiving Russian nesting dolls (the meaning of which connects Ellen and Layla from their childhood) and thus commences the mystery!
Aside from our 3 main players, we have Finn's best friend Harry.
The ending is 'tied up nicely' in that you're given a final "a-ha" moment and B.A. gives you all of the answers you've been asking for.
Past that, again, the ending didn't feel fully developed to me.
While this wasn't my favorite thriller / mystery / suspense novel it was definitely a page-turner and a really unique concept.
Great beginning....
mediocre middle....Psychological thriller with Russian Dolls?
A little goofy....but I was a willing reader.While there was suspense...there was also something silly too.
Silly sentences sneak into the dialogue..., but I was still a willing reader.
The addictive quality was there too.
It wasn’t lip-smacking great...nor nail-biting haunting...but the twist at the end was carefully constructed and pretty good!
I trusted none of the characters from beginning to end.
I think most B.A Paris fans will enjoy this ‘enough’ too...
and some fans more than I did.
Thank You St. Martin’s, Netgalley, and B.A. Paris
I don’t mind suspending belief (it’s commercial fiction after all) but when I enter the realm of the ludicrous count me out.
I always feel a chill when I read B A Paris books.Finns girlfriend went missing while they were travelling on holiday some 12 years ago.Never found.
Time has moved on for Finn now, he is engaged to Emma who happens to be his missing girlfriends sister!What a well weaved story.
Then we find that Finn left out some things when reporting his girlfriend missing.I did guess a few things as the story went on, it didn't detract from the enjoyment one iota, it enhanced it I thought.Its laid out in alternating chapters between two main characters.The tension sure build brick upon solid brick.Dark secrets.Gripping storyline.I 100% assure you, you won't get much sleep.Sleep with the lights ON.My thanks to HQ and Net Galley or my early copy.
Is that why Ellen has brought me here, why she left the link to CalMac ferries on her computer, because Layla is there?” This is just one example, there are many, many questions addressed to the reader and for me this just doesn’t work in fact the repetitive use of this format is somewhat irritating.I like strong characters in my books, no matter what genre, and Layla, Ellen and Finn are not well described or developed.
Or is the person who took her playing games with his mind?”I could go on but I will just annoy the fans of this book and this author so I will just chalk it up to not enjoying the writing style.
My reviews can also be seen at: https://deesradreadsandreviews.wordpr...2.75 StarsTwelve years ago Finn’s girlfriend, Layla disappeared from a rest stop on their way home from vacation. In his statement to police, he said that Layla was in the car when he stopped to use the restroom. When he got back she was nowhere to be found. His phone wasn't getting a signal so he drove to the nearest gas station to ask for help. “It was the truth. But not quite the whole truth” Finn was arrested on suspicio
My reviews can also be seen at: https://deesradreadsandreviews.wordpr...2.75 StarsTwelve years ago Finn’s girlfriend, Layla disappeared from a rest stop on their way home from vacation.
Layla was never seen again.Twelve years later, Finn has moved on and is even engaged.
Apparently, one of Finn’s old neighbors came into the police station and told the detective that he saw Layla the previous day.
And as days go by more and more strange things keep happening.The story flips back and forth between “then” and “now” as we learn more about Finn's relationship with Layla as well as his relationship with his fiancee.
Not a sign of Layla.....not even a thread.Fast forward twelve years later.Our guy, Finn, has gone on to make some pretty big bucks in the finance game thanks to hard work and to the support from his best friend and partner, Harry.
Harry realizes that Finn will never be the same since the disappearance of Layla.
But the chess pieces on this board have changed drastically and Finn is now engaged to Layla's sister, Ellen.
Finn finds something reassuring in the likes of Ellen even though she is a much more subdued version of her sister.
I didn’t have as much enthusiasm for this book as some other reviewers.
The premise is that twelve years ago, Finn’s girlfriend went missing at a rest stop on their way from a trip to Paris back to England.
Now that he’s engaged to be married to someone else, suddenly there are clues that maybe his ex-girlfriend wasn’t kidnapped/murdered as Finn and the cops initially thought.
There’s all sorts of page-turning suspense for the first half of the book.
Thanks so much to NetGalley for the opportunity to review this novel, which RELEASES JUNE 19, 2018.
For more of my reviews, please visit: http://www.theresaalan.net/blog
I was still invested enough to keep reading to see how the story played out and I even had a theory about what was happening.First the good:- I partially guessed the conclusion but not 100% so the author surprised me.
- the plot didn’t advance much in the second half and there was a lot of repetition-I grew more and more disillusioned with the story as I read- the aforementioned inconsistencies, which I can’t go into without spoilers.
I was surprised but not in a good way.
Give it a try, you may end up in the love it camp!** I received my copy via Netgalley in exchange for an honest review
3.5Russia, Russia, Russian Dolls….It seemed like an invasion of the Russian dolls!
I may need my own set now as the characters really seemed to enjoy them (really??!!)This one starts off with a bang!
The dolls seemed to be showing up everywhere and seemed to be like a character in the story (yes, please).
This made it an addictive read.I will say the story seemed to lose steam in the final chapters and the ending was off the rails (in my opinion).
Still enjoyed it immensely and I think fans of this author will too!Thanks to Netgalley/Publisher for my arc.Review will post to my blog https://dressedtoread.com/ on 5/10/2018
I know my answer… the question is: how do Finn and Ellen, the main characters in “Bring Me Back” by B.
Being with Finn, well, for Ellen it is everything she ever wanted.
Layla was Ellen’s sister, you see and Finn has been in love with both of them.
Now, twelve years later, both Finn and Ellen start receiving Russian Dolls (reminders from Ellen’s childhood) and other notes and such, making them think Layla might still be alive.
A. Paris’s other books, I think you’ll like this one as well as “Bring Me Back” is a fun, thrilling ride.This was a Traveling Sister read which was a lot of fun for all of us.
Which, if I recall, I began one night and couldn't put down.
So note to future self: if you start to read a B.
A. Paris novel, don't make any plans!
This started off with Finn giving his account of the disappearance of his girlfriend , Layla.
From there it weaves back and forth from the night of her disappearance to the events happening now.
Is Layla dead?
Read it!
I will say, it's a given that I am a huge fan of B.A. Paris now.*Thank you to the publisher and Netgalley for an ARC in exchange for an honest review .
4 entertaining stars to Bring Me Back! ⭐ ⭐ ⭐ ⭐ I’m beginning to look forward to B.A. Paris’ new release each summer! Her debut, Behind Close Doors, remains my favorite, but Bring Me Back is an entertaining thrill ride! First of all, Paris knows how to hook me early on. Finn and Layla are on vacation, and while they are driving along a deserted highway, Finn stops to use the restroom at a gas station. When he returns to his car, Layla has disappeared. Or, so Finn tells the police...Fast forward t
4 entertaining stars to Bring Me Back!
Her debut, Behind Close Doors, remains my favorite, but Bring Me Back is an entertaining thrill ride!
Or, so Finn tells the police...Fast forward ten years, and Finn is now engaged to, of all people, Layla’s sister, Ellen.
Just before Finn and Ellen are to wed, someone has spotted Layla, and other unusual events happen, such as items of Layla’s showing up, along with strange emails.
I have always been mesmerized by Russian nesting dolls, and now they creep me out, thanks to this book!
From beginning to end, I was invested, shocked, and fully entertained!
well it didn't BRING ME a five star read BUT I was definitely impressed with this one way more then her first two novels.B.A. Paris delivers a clever and unique psychological thriller that surrounds Russian dolls.
a lot.Let's meet Layla and Finn.
A few years go by and Finn is contacted by Layla's sister Ellen.
Soon Finn and Ellen's relationship takes off into a romance.
but then all of a sudden Ellen finds a missing Russian doll that she had as a child.
Only three people know about the story with these Russian dolls: Ellen, Finn, and Layla.
I’m the kind of gal that writes my reviews as I go along, so I don’t forget to bring up how I feel as I’m reading the book.
So, I had almost a complete review written on Bring Me Back, which I just had to jettison when I got to the end.
Everything I had felt for the characters as I was reading got thrown into turmoil when I got to the end.
And I didn’t care for her character either.
And once I got to the end, I just felt like it didn’t really hang together very well.
I couldn't defy the voice but I gave Finn a clue, hoping he would understand. And bring me back, before it's too late.  Sometimes I don't understand the genres books are labeled under and how they came to be that genre, and in that case, this is one of those books. I can't see how and why this is a psychological thriller. It isn't disturbing, it isn't messing with your head, you can't feel the emotions of the characters, and you can't seem to care about what the fuck is going on in the mind of
Bring Me Back was like that: it mentions that Layla may be dead or might be alive after presumably being dead for the 12 years that passed by, so obviously, the author manages to grip you in and manipulate you into thinking that's the case.
I don't like reading about the same "mysterious plot twist" over and over because authors can't be creative and come up with their own ideas to make their own creative way of making an actual psychological thrillerAnd of course, I can't go on writing this review without mentioning Ellen.
Not long after this alleged sighting, Ellen thinks she’s seen Layla, as well.
I breathed a sigh of relief when her second novel passed the test, proving Paris had the chops needed to continue parting waves in the psychological thriller category.
I stayed with it hoping an unexpected twist would knock me over, but everything continued, messily, at that, leading me right to the destination I had predicted.
The psychological thriller category is too saturated, in my opinion, and Paris is going to have to really step it up a notch to stay relevant in this genre.
He goes in to pay and when he returns to the car Layla is gone without a trace or explanation.
Ten years later, Finn is engaged to be married to Ellen who happens to be Layla's sister.
The wedding is set to happen but their lives get affected when a disturbing object appears at their home.
What makes it disturbing is that is an object related to Ellen's long-gone sister Layla.
Overall, I enjoyed the book and recommend it to readers of thrillers, mysteries and contemporary fiction.
I also recommend the author's previous books The Breakdown and Behind Closed Doors.I received an advance copy from the publisher via Netgalley
3.5/5 stars!BA Paris's  Bring Me Back  will be released on June 19, 2018, but when I received word that St. Martin's Press was sending me a review copy, I screamed and jumped for joy. If you know anything about me, you'd know that BA Paris is one of my favorite authors. She slayed me in Behind Closed Doors, she scared me with The Breakdown, and I was sure she would provoke me with  Bring Me Back . Coming off the high from her first two novels, I was certain we would get another strong female lea
's story differs greatly from the first two novels written by Ms. Paris—Finn McQuaid is a successful business man, engaged to his perfect fiance Ellen, and with a dark past that still haunts him.
I would recommend picking this book up as a beach read (perfect since it's being released right before summertime) because it's not too long of a story, and the narrative goes rather quickly.
The story is told in a very interestingly different portrayal than I'm used to as well, which also provides a good level of mystery.
Definitely suspenseful, quickly paced, and I did appreciate the format.
Alternating viewpoints worked very well for this story.
Had no clue exactly what was going on most of the time, totally fooled.
Didn't like any of these characters, suspected Finn of many things, Ellen seemed the most normal, well adjusted.
This was a sisters read where most liked this much more than I.
Turned out to be a mixed read for me, and it did turn out to be a very strange story, as well.I found the resolution far-fetched and unbelievable.
Plus, I still don't understand the relationships between Finn and Henry.ARC from Netgalley.
