https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/581409.Strega_Nona
Review  Strega Nona by Tomie dePaola is the first book in a classic children's literature series from the 1970s and 1980s. It was eventually made into a cartoon and several other children's merchandise, all fun and educational toys as kids grew up. I enjoyed the premise of the books but only read the first one, and maybe the second or third (can't remember!).Strega Nona means "Grandma Witch," and she helps the townspeople with all their problems through her magical pasta pot. One day, she has
I enjoyed the premise of the books but only read the first one, and maybe the second or third (can't remember!).Strega Nona means "Grandma Witch," and she helps the townspeople with all their problems through her magical pasta pot.
And even though he was told not to use the pot, he doesn't listen and causes all sorts of wacky situations.These books were meant as little lessons for children.
I liked the idea of a witch teaching children, but at the same time...
But I bet kids learned to eat a lot of pasta from them!!!
Many thanks to their original creators.
Strega Nona is sure to be a hit with both children and adults.Tomie dePaola does an awesome job at creating a story that is humorous and exciting at the same time.
Big Anthony humorously plays the role of a tragic hero as he at first was able to feed the townspeople all the pasta they desired, but then ends up nearly destroying the town when he did not listen to Strega Nona’s warnings about the pasta pot.
Listen, pay attention, and follow instructions, or there may be negative consequences; in this case, pasta might take over the world. I have enjoyed this author/illustrator’s other books and his illustrations work so well in this story.I love that this tale isn’t scary, doesn’t have any villains, and that there is a positive message. The story really is very amusing, and it’s fun to read aloud.I never knew a book that makes pasta look both so appealing and unappealing. I love the magic pot! My kind of cooking!
It's a great story.My acquitance with this book occured, not when I was at the targeted age, but when my brother was.
He had so many books that dealt with spagetti, including a real annoying one More Spaghetti, I Say!.
He had to be read these books constantly.
The words are burnt into what passes for my brain.There was one huge but.When you read a story to my brother, you couldn't say spagetti.
The spagetti getti getti would be undercooked.
A charming story that is still charming even with the use of the word getti getti.
I found this book in my house this weekend and decided to read it. It isn't a super short book, but it isn't very long either. The story line seems like it is for little kids, but not awful overall. I don't recommend it to older kids because it wasn't very challenging. Overall, not a bad book, but not challenging enough for my lexile or reading level.
I waited so long to read this book and now I'm hungry and fellas, you've gotta read it.
How have I never read this book before today? It's so cute and funny and everything a children's book should be. It teaches a lesson without the kid knowing they're learning a lesson. "Don't touch stuff that I specifically said not to touch. I will find out and you will be punished." And I hope I wasn't the only one that thought the ending was going to be dark. I just had a feeling that I was going to see Big Anthony explode from eating all that pasta on the last page.
This book is such a classic. We've read this one several times and it never gets old. It has a fun story and cartoonish illustrations that depict an older time - we just love Tomie dePaola's books!
He's very helpful, but when he hears Strega Nona saying a magic spell over her pasta pot, he gets greedy.
She must say certain words to make it stop, too, and bow three kisses, but Big Anthony doesn't pay attention and doesn't hear that part.When Strega Nona goes away to see her friend, Strega Amelia, she leaves Big Anthony in charge, with the stringent warning not to touch the pasta pot.
But of course, as soon as she's gone, Big Anthony goes and tells everyone in the town about the pasta pot.
A book that didn't hold my children's attention as well as I would have liked. It's a Caldecott award winner and deserving of it, the pictures detailed and fun, but for the most part, I think maybe it used too many of the same color scheme, because many of the pages looked similar. My kids became bored and I had to draw them back into the story. I thought it was cute and enjoyed it, but I might have to wait until my kids are a little older.
Strega Nona has some funny moments (such as when the distraught mayor cries out, "We must protect our town from the pasta"). The illustrations by the very capable Tomie dePaola are gorgeous. I have had fun with this book for years, and it always brings back good memories.
But Strega Nona was growing old and she needed some help around the house, so she hired Big Anthony, who didn’t pay attention.
One evening when Big Anthony was milking the goats he heard Strega Nona singing to the pasta pot.
Big Anthony heard all the singing, but he didn’t see Strega Nona blow three kisses to the pot to make it stop.
What happened when Strega Nona went away to visit a friend and left Big Anthony alone with the pasta pot?
The text is deftly balanced between narrative and dialogue and de Paola is careful to emphasize important information, but doesn't talk down to his readers.Full Review at Picture-Book-Day: http://picturebookaday.blogspot.com/2...
Parcă am mai auzit de o poveste asemănătoare. Probabil Мишкина каша de Nikolay Nosov, autorul lui Habarnam (Neştiilă) Приключения Незнайки. Dar se pare că în cărţile fraţilor Grimm putem găsi o poveste asemănătoare Der süße Brei (The Sweet Porridge)Iar Strega Nona mi se pare a fi Sfânta Vinere sau Duminică din folclorul românesc
What makes a children's book great?
And there are at least a couple of lessons to be learned in Strega Nona.
Set in an old Italian village with its own Grandma Witch, a young boy learns a lesson not only about obedience, but about feeling he has to impress others.
In disobeying is employer, Strega Nona, he creates a crisis for her home, for himself, and for the village.
Strega Nona is the one to show true forgiveness, even in exacting the right punishment for the young man.
So many good lessons.
A great book.
Strega Nona is one of my favorites, and it always makes me hungry for pasta. Just not that much pasta.
Once the pot starts to work, Anthony invites the town over for a free pasta dinner.
After everyone has their fill of pasta, Anthony asks the pot to stop, but doesn’t know he needs to blow three kisses to make it stop.
Unable to stop the pasta, the whole town is about to be consumed, when just in time, Strega returns to stop the pot.
As the pasta cooks you notice faint wavy lines above the pot that represent steam rising.
To clean up the pasta that covered the town, Big Anthony is given a fork and told to start eating.
This book is considered banned because the main character was a "spell-casting witchcraft-loving devil woman".
This book was both challenged and banned from libraries because of the belief that it displayed witchcraft and supernatural content.
I was surprised after reading this book to find it on the "banned" list.
I would have no problem with reading this book in my classroom as the main character is a kind, old lady who cures warts, makes love potions and everything she does is out of kindness and love.
I consider this book a prodigious book to read and in the end, you realize love is the magic ingredient.
This is the sixth book for this week.This book was banned/challenged due it having a witch, magic, supernatural elements.Strega Nona is a witch in a tiny town, she helps out everyone with all sorts of problems.
Of course there is always a catch, just like in many other magical/witch books, he must do all sorts of things, BUT he can't touch the pasta pot!
I didn't like the help.
:|But at least, just like all the other stories, there is a fine heap of karma coming his way.
I loved Strega Nona.
Big Anthony discovers that Strega Nona has a magic pot that makes pasta.
Strega Nona explicitly tells Big Anthony to never touch the pot.
It could be read at any point in the school year and at any time that you want to highlight the importance of listening, paying attention, and not trying to impress others.
I’ve read this book many times in my classes throughout the years and it is interesting how different groups of children pick up different aspects of the text.
Young children can gain an important lesson and adults will enjoy reading it with their children and students.
She needs him to take care of these things for her so she can visit the town's people, giving them the help they need with various life problems.
Nona tells him outright to not go near her pasta pot.
Strega comes back and makes him eat all the pasta that has filled her house and the town.Literary Merit: I think theme, or the message of the story is very evident in this story and should be taught to young children.
I can also have students do a character map of Strega Nona since she is a big character with lots of traits.
I found the watercolor illustrations to be somewhat muted in color, but still very lively and expressive, like many of dePaola's other books.
Strega Nona hires Big Anthony, but warns him not to touch her magic pasta pot.
(view spoiler)[Big Anthony goes messing with the magic pot of course!
The problem is, Big Anthony doesn't actually know how to make the pasta pot stop.
Strega Nona returns just in time to save the town from a pasta disaster, and puts Big Anthony in charge of clean up- he has to eat every last bite of pasta he conjured.
Additionally, I think this is a great story to tell to children because the lesson at the core is to listen to elders, which is an important thing to learn at a young age.
Especially at the end of the story when Big Anthony had to eat all the pasta, the illustrations really conveyed how full he was and to boot they were humorous.
Lastly, I love this book because I am Italian, and my grandma's name is Nona, so this is a very fun story for me because I think of my Nona and all the pasta she makes.
Summarize the book:This is a book about Strega Nona who is a witch who helps people with their problems.
Everyone eats a lot of pasta and then Big Anthony realizes that he cannot stop the magic pot from making pasta and it starts to take over the village and the people are scared they will lose their homes to a pasta invasion.
She then makes Big Anthony eat all the pasta back to her house.
Identify the characteristics from the text that support the specific genre:Strega Nona is a witch who can do a lot of different things to help all of the people in her village.
Strega Nona, won the Caldecott Honor in 1976 and was voted one of the “Top 100 Picture Books” of all times in 2012 by a School Library Journal poll.
The story is about a young man (Big Anthony) in an Italian village that seeks employment from the local witch, Strega Nona.
Strega Nona is wise and Big Anthony is foolish.
Predictably, Big Anthony makes a poor choice, and Strega Nona has to rescue him and the village from ruin.
Big Anthony learns a valuable lesson about following directions as he spends the end of the story miserable while gorging on pasta and nursing a stomach ache.
I love this story because it reminds me of my grandma and her delicious cooking.
It is the story of Strega Nona, a little granny in Italy, who hires Big Anthony to be her servant.
She tells him not to touch the magic pasta pot, but of course he does.
I love the part were the pasta is about to take over the town!
As with any good folktale, there is a happy ending and Big Anthony (and the reader) learn an important lesson about listening to your elders!With some discussion this story could lead to some excellent connections.

This woman in the story helps this boy out and the boy finds out she has a magic pot.
He tells everyone about the magic pot and now everyone wants pasta from the pot.
Strega Nona tells the boy not to touch her pot because she had to go out of town on vacation.
This book shows a great lesson in the story about touching stuff that does not belong to you.
This would be great in the classroom to use as a tool to show consequences of touching things that dont belong to you.
This book is about a boy named Anthony who helps out a nice old lady named Strega Nona.
One day he notices her saying a magical spell into a pot that magically produces noodles.
Unfortunately, he doesn't notice that she blows three kisses into the pot to stop the production of noodles.
When Strega Nona leaves town and leaves Anthony in charge.
He makes the noodles using magic but can't stop them, so the whole town overflows with noodles.
Then Strega Nona must come back to save the day.
I liked this book a lot as a kid and still enjoy it today.
It's been a while since I've read this for a preschool storytime, but I can still remember the rhyme Strega Nona recites to her magic pasta pot:"Bubble, bubble, pasta pot.
I'm hungry and it's time to sup.Boil enough pasta to fill me up!"But of course, it takes more than just knowing the words to the rhyme to make the magic pasta pot behave.
It takes three blown kisses, too!
Big Anthony doesn't know that, though, and almost drowns the town in pasta while Strega Nona is away.
Oops!The warm illustrations and the silliness of the out of control pasta make this a fun read aloud to share with young children.
This book follows Strega Nona (grandma witch) and Big Anthony, as he helps out Strega Nona, and makes a mess.
Strega Nona has a magical pot that makes pasta, and when Big Anthony does it, he doesn't know how to stop it, and it spreads through the whole town.
The pictures help guide the story, and make you want to keep turning the page.
The "magic" that Strega Nona casts isn't overdone, and it the color scheme is mostly different shades of browns and greens - earthy tones.
Overall I really enjoyed this book, and I thought it was really well done.
