https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/12839.A_Separate_Reality

One must strive without giving up, without a complaint, without flinching, until one sees, only to realize then that nothing matters."In this book, Castaneda returns to his apprenticeship with don Juan after leaving due to his fears after using don Juan’s ally (smoking mushrooms).
I missed the more philosophical and spiritual teachings from the first book.This one focused mainly on “seeing” and learning to be a “warrior” and also more about sorcerers and allies.
Seeing instead of knowing is a huge theme in this second book.A lot of what don Juan said was cryptic.
Castaneda books were very popular when I was an undergraduate, and when I first started teaching in the 1970s.
I saw imagery and a quote from Castaneda in his artwork, and thought this might be a time to see what I could learn from the book.
What a difference all those years of living made in my interest and understanding!
This time I felt Don Juan had something to teach me, not just Carlos, about living life as fully aware as possible, with intention, and respect for death, that comes for each of us.
A Separate Reality (the second in the series) describes his studies with Don Juan, the Yaqui shaman that he first wrote about in Teachings of Don Juan, a Yaqui Way of Knowledge.
Like Teachings, A Separate Reality explores the multiple realities that we experience in our lives, such as our dreams, which while we're dreaming are our true universe, and our waking reality, in which our dreams are just a fantasy.
A key concept in A Separate Reality is the difference between looking (which is what we do most of the time) and seeing (in which we perceive the essence of something).
Within the distinct realism of A Separate Reality we find an overwhelm of potency, which, if we're not prepared to actually change our world, will pass us by.To read this powerful and transformative work we have to DO much.
We are thus required to read and connect to the implications of what's imparted, to look past the tests-of-self such as the rituals and the indulgences of Carlos and look at the Way-of-Living and Deep Sobriety Don Juan Shares so incredibly.
When I was an undergraduate in the mid-70's, Castaneda's "Don Juan" trilogy (with maybe a little Hermann Hesse thrown in) was what one read to be considered deep and interesting. Thirty years on, Hesse still holds up (for the most part). For Castaneda one can only ask "What was I thinking?". But presumably that's what undergraduate time should be used for - to read broadly and indiscriminately. So not everything you read in college is going to be good.
I asked him to explain his statement."My predilection is to see," he said."What do you mean by that?""I like to see" he said, "because only by seeing can a man of knowledge know.""What kind of things do you see?""Everything.""But I also see everything and I'm not a man of knowledge.""No. You don't see."I think I do.""I tell you, you don't.""What makes you say that, don Juan?""You only look at the surface of things.""Do you mean that every man of knowledge actually sees through everything he looks at?""No. That's not what I mean.
Don Juan turns Castaneda's whole world upside down by teaching him the ways of a sorcerer and the results are some of the most beautiful and touching pieces of nonfiction.In "A Separate Reality" Castaneda attempts to explain don Juan's teachings about the art of 'seeing'.
Don Juan seems to do his absolute best to explain and some of his explanations are truly beautiful, but at times it seems like Castaneda is missing the point.Throughout "A Separate Reality" I found myself questioning my own views of the world.
You can either view Castaneda's work as extremely well written psychedelic fiction prose or you can view it as a collection of vital truths that will help you live a better life.
Either way you would be right in my opinion, and the fact that it is all most likely completely made up only makes the fiction that much more magical to me, and more true.
"It was as if the point of departure had always been myself.
It was as if Don Juan had never really been there, and when I looked for him he became what he really was; a fleeting image that vanished over a hill.
The first half-hour did not compel me to finish the audiobook.
But instead of reading these as the non-fiction they are marketed as, I am reading them as fantasies.
So perceiving and using your etheric body to gain power over the spiritual realm is a trap.That said, I do not know how to rate these books.
What's more, the "wisdom," is often pretty good, and more grounded than the "think and grow rich" nonsense that New Age has developed into, like "The Secret." The problem is that today, most (if not all) archaeologists who look at Castenada's work in depth think he made "Don Juan" up.
Դոն Խուանի հետ առաջին հանդիպման պահից անցավ արդեն 10 տարի։ Մարտիկ դառնալու ու տեսնելու ճանապարհը լի 
This is the volume following Castaneda's revised doctoral dissertation, The Teachings of Don Juan (1968), and preceding Journey to Ixtlan (1972). The three were eventually issued as a cloth trilogy. I started the series in paperback, but found the trilogy soon after and purchased it, probably at Stuart Brent Bookstore in Chicago near where I worked during the summer months between college and seminary.
This book was hard to follow, I found myself asking wether or not what was being read was actually occuring or if it was part of a story. I still enjoyed it, the book has the potential to open a mind and explore different dimensions outside of this world. I really think I would have captured more of the books teachings if I had joined in the peyote smoking! :>
Peyote, jimson weed, datura and the other hallucinogens used would have terrified us just to think about."A Separate Reality" is Don Juan's attempt to teach his apprentice to "see".
And last but not least, to instill in his apprentice the iron heart and freedom from desire of a "warrior".To me, the most telling scene is Castaneda's first experience smoking Don Juan's psychedelic mixture.
Castaneda becomes confused and angry at the trick played on him, but never understands the lesson.Yet reading the book, one still glimpses those iron Indian warriors.
A Separate Reality is the second book written by Carlos Castaneda, and while still practically mired in the realm of hallucinogenic mixtures, a few new topics are brought to life; seeing, living like a warrior, and shutting off the internal dialogue.It is those three concepts, which bring a rather large change to the narrative presentation.
It’s simply that these stories have had an overwhelming impact on my life and I see how stale everyone else around me is, yet I see the world as something new and fresh everyday…Anyway, if nothing else, the story if used as an allegory can still show us what many books, T.V. programs, movies, etc., show us- ways to enrich our lives.
تمام چیزهایی رو که فلاسفه با تلاش های فکری بسیار میتونن در ذهن بیارن دون خوان براحتی زندگی میکنه و بسیار هم از اونها فراتر میره.
مهمترین تفاوتش اینه که سلوک دون خوان عملیه و به جای تلاش فکری برای تصور کردن حقیقت اون با سلوک عملیش مستقیم به حقیقت چشم میدوزه.
واسه همین بدون هیچ تلاش فکری و استدلالی حقیقت رو توصیف و زندگی میکنه.
فیلسوف کلی تلاش میکنه یک چیزی رو که ندیده در خیال خودش با استدلال مجسم کنه اما یک سالکبا عملش خودش رو به اون میرسونه و بدون هیچ تلاشی اون رو میبینه و باهاش زندگی میکنه.
It’s a fictional but well written account with some philosophy buried in mystical pretense.
(Castaneda never declared it to be fictional.) Strange, I wish it were true, and I’m not sure why.
This book and the whole Yaqui Way of Knowledge is an appeal to the mystic want-to-be.
But actually it’s not.
A separate and better reality is right here, should we possess the creative insight to see it and live it.
This is perhaps the book’s great appeal to me—to find and live that separate reality, without having to trip out on peyote.
This is probably the best of the Castaneda series.
Read this mostly in one sitting at the DMV.
A world-altering read for me.
The book starts slow but careens into mystical extremes by the second half.
Castaneda plays the role of the modern person: rational, verbal, objective.
Castaneda is amazingly, remarkably bad at succumbing to metaphysical experience.
This is hilarious and endearing.
Castaneda might have been resisting the non-linear because he was ostensibly doing anthropological research.
In any case this makes Castaneda a relatable foil to the winking Don Juan.The format of the book, a series of conversations between teacher and student, is poetic.
It would make a beautiful novel.
This book would probably seem strange to most and only interesting to a few. For me I can only say that this book chose me, it came to me at a time in my life in which I was approaching a major spiritual awakening, though I didn't know it. This book helped push me over the edge. I feel if I would have read it any time sooner than when I did it would have been lost on me.
anthropology or fabrication? doesn't matter--can't be too much carpe diem literature and this is excellent--i've loved page 88 for many decades--
The greatest celebration of gullibility and lack of any ability to discern or investigate I have ever read. Also, poorly written.
I really tried to read his book, but more I'd read more I thought that the author had spent time with Don Juan on using some kind of drug.
silly, pretentious, outdated
Complete hogwash.
I like this more sober approach to spiritual reality.
It is an individual journey and there are benefits and dangers at every turn.
They feel like intellectualisations of something that can't be intellectualised and they make it seem that ultimate reality is quite a simplistic, passive thing to understand.
This book only really hints at some aspects of the shamanism approach, such as controlled folly, and the use of certain hallucinatory drugs in order to speed up your ability to perceive these higher frequencies of reality where you can encounter things such as your ally.
Но если ты даёшь определение "свободе" - оно вовсе необязательно соответствует таковым твоих "единомышленников" (чем активнее их согласие, тем меньше шансов на то, что вам удастся сохранить единогласие по мере преодоления определяемых чистой воды случайностью (или негласным невежеством) этапов на пути к достижению цели).Чувство собственной важности равноценно чувству общинной полноценности (так называемому, "патриотизму") - поскольку и то и другое являются следствиями нарочитого слабоумия, выдвигаемого в роли контраргумента некой Внешней Силе (представляющей собой не более, чем имитацию тех, кому она противопоставляется - "совершенное" явление, если угодно, в отличие от её оппонентов, лишённых, в первую очередь, любых признаков живого организма, зато наделённых неким "моральным обликом").Изменяются не вещи, а то, каким образом ты их воспринимаешь.
Esse segundo livro da coletânea dos Ensinamentos de Dom Juan deixa de lado o caráter acadêmico ou de entendimento, segundo uma organização racional dos pressupostos expostos pelo brujo e anotados pelo aprendiz, para entrar em um jornada diferente, mais complicada, incompreensível e perigosa.Nessa segunda etapa de aprendizados, depois do retorno de Castaneda aos ensinamentos de Dom Juan, o ponto primordial é a capacidade de ver, não de enxergar, olhar ou compreender, mas algo mais inexplicável que compreende todos os sentidos do ser humano.
But that is not an issue; it's only a pity." - Don Juan (A Separate Reality by Carlos Castaneda, Pg.5)"I have told you time and time again.
That's the warrior's way." - Don Juan (A Separate Reality by Carlos Castaneda, Pg.47)"In order to become a man of knowledge one must be a warrior, not a whimpering child.
One must strive without giving up, without a complaint, without flinching, until one sees, only to realize then that nothing matters." - Don Juan (A Separate Reality by Carlos Castaneda, Pg.88)"You're too concerned with liking people or with being liked yourself," he said.
"A man of knowledge likes, that's all.
El relato es muy ameno y muy sencillo de seguir, sobre todo cuando no entiendes algo e inmediatamente Don Juan menciona que el problema es que tratamos de entender todo.
Me gustan estos libros porque me dan una visión diferente y porque, a pesar de que tengo mis creencias, se pueden destacar varios consejos que nos pueden ayudar a los seres humanos en general.
De este libro en particular rescaté varias frases que dejé registradas en mis actualizaciones de estado que pienso utilizar en mi vida diaria.
