https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/43980.A_History_of_the_World_in_10_Chapters
The Prologue Before I met all of you wonderful Goodreaders I was at the mercy of my paltry few well-read friends for recommendations of new authors and books. Derek Crim, childhood friend and fellow bookish enthusiast has offered up some winners: Chabon before “Kavalier and Clay”; O’Brian’s Aubrey-Maturin series; Kurlansky’s non-fiction. In August of 2006 he gifted me a copy of this Barnes novel. Immediately upon completion of its reading it became one of my life-important books. The Beginning
Before I met all of you wonderful Goodreaders I was at the mercy of my paltry few well-read friends for recommendations of new authors and books.
Immediately upon completion of its reading it became one of my life-important books.
I also took the opportunity to take this book with me; to re-read it again and to hopefully find new meaning in the totality of the work and especially in my favorite chapter.
Seven years yields a lifetime of experience between the readings of a favorite book.
But I have loved reading this book all over again.
This 'History' turned out to be very different from what my expectations were.
Barnes' obsession with history and its telling comes out in this book too, but this time not as a doubting narrator doggedly working against stacked odds but as exuberant narrators who gain vitality from the very fact of their inconsequentiality to the story.
The underlying motifs and themes connecting these seemingly disparate stories and speakers is probably what prompts Pamuk to dub it as a major work of post-modernism.Wonderfully constructed and wittily told, this book shows fans the full range of the author's interests.
One or two are downright outlandish and quite delightful.(The Raft of the Medusa, 1819)Julian Barnes is always intelligent and good company, and this book is no exception.
And a bit more, including a lengthy advice column-cum-essay on why we must believe in love, by a first person narrator who, we are told, may or may not be Julian Barnes.
It is assumed we will wonder about it.As per usual he connects the threads of the various narratives through the use of a repeated leitmotif, in this book by interpreting and imagining Hegel’s/Marx’s thought: History repeats itself, the first time as tragedy, the second time as farce .
I read most of this! A few chapters I stopped reading half-way through because I wasn't enjoying them as much. I decided to DNF as this is a book I had to study last year and no longer /need/ to finish it... and honestly I don't have any desire to revisit the chapters I stopped partway through.
Λιγη υπομονη θελει μονο με την πρωτη ιστορια η οποια ειναι καπως κουραστικη και σαν ιδεα αλλα και στον τροπο αφηγησης, αλλα απο κει κι επειτα το βιβλιο απογειωνεται και συνεχιζει ετσι μεχρι την τελευταια σελιδα.
Σπουδαιος αφηγητης και στοχαστης ο Barnes γραφει ενα ιδιοφυες και προκλητικο βιβλιο με τις καταλληλες δοσεις ειρωνιας και σαρκασμου.
Χωρις ιχνος διδακτισμου καταφερνει να προβληματισει και να δωσει τροφη για σκεψη πανω στα πιο μεγαλα ζητηματα που εχουν απασχολησει ποτε τον ανθρωπο και πανω στο ιδιο το νοημα της ζωης.
Θα απασχολησει για αρκετο καιρο τη σκεψη μου και σιγουρα θα επανελθω για μια δευτερη αναγνωση.
I've seen it a couple of times - a giant darkish painting on a wall in the Louvre, but it turns out I was in need of a professional critic in order to really 'look' at it in the proper way: We don't just imagine the ferocious miseries on that fatal machine, we don't just become the sufferers.
To balance this bleak outlook of the soul lost in a sea of indifference and ultimate destitution, Barnes gives us the half chapter  Parenthesis  where he breaks out of the story and addresses the audience directly, using a couple of quotes in a way not so different from what we do around here on goodreads when we want to stress a point: What will survive of us is love.
I originally assumed, based on its title, that A History of the World in 10 1/2 chapters was actually a history of the world in 10 1/2 chapters.
I thought it would be a quirky, ultra-condensed version of all recorded history.
But it's actually a series of history-themed short stories.I had it on my wishlist based on the rave reviews from Amazon, claiming that the book is pure genius.
The highlight of the book is probably its first chapter, where Barnes tells the story of Noah's Ark from a wood worm's point of view.
A History of the World in 10 Chapters was not what I expected, but that happens a lot to me when reading Julian Barnes. I like surprises, and enjoyed the book. My problem is frequently uncontrolled expectations. I had a similar feeling reading Flaubert's Parrot, if I remember correctly since I read both years ago. It is highly entertaining and the choice of narrator in each fragment is a feat of imagination. Always true with Barnes' writings. The story grew on me as I read on, at the same time a
A History of the World in 10½ Chapters was not what I expected, but that happens a lot to me when reading Julian Barnes.
I like surprises, and enjoyed the book.
My problem is frequently uncontrolled expectations.
It is highly entertaining and the choice of narrator in each fragment is a feat of imagination.
Always true with Barnes' writings.
The story grew on me as I read on, at the same time as the narrator grows in exuberance and vitality.
Wonderfully constructed and wittily told, Barnes’ work show the full spectrum of his interests.But I think I still prefer his short-stories.
In the meantime, Barnes is going to help us explain our own sense of survival and reaction to terrorism in "Franklin Hughes." He writes about the agony of waiting for death and hope in addition to how humans turn catastrophes into art in "Shipwreck." He analyzes sexism, mysticism, WWIII paranoia, and psychosis in "The Survivor." He tells of a story of one man misunderstanding another based on culture and race in "Upstream!" and celebrates as well as criticizes love in "Parenthesis" He shows us the fallibility of religion in "The Wars of Religion" and of heaven itself in "The Dream." He is ever aware of the immense shortcomings in both humanity and history.
Jocīga grāmata (labā vārda nozīmē). Pat nezinu, ko īsti pateikt, ļoti interesanta (un atkal jāuzsver, ka labā nozīmē) lasāmviela, lai gan neteikšu, ka visas nodaļas man patika vienādi. Jā, galvenais apjukums par to, kāpēc šis ir romāns, jo nodaļu savienošanas princips nebūt nav skaidrs. Bet stāsti par ķirmjiem, kuri ielavās Noasa šķirstā un pret kuriem vēršas viduslaiku tiesas prāvā, par kultūrvēsturisko lekciju lasītāju, kuru teroristi piespiež sadarboties un par vecmeitu, kura dodas klanā meklēt Noasa arku noteikti ir lasīšanas vērti.
The Ship of Fools - Hieronymous Bosch, c. 1500A set of deliciously intertwined stories. A wry humor on the nature of existence and history, and how adrift we are on it, and a poke in the eye of dogma and 'history' as a lie. We start with Noah's Ark, and dance around human history from there - mad astronauts, cannibalism, and the legal defense of woodworms. All the pieces matter.
Even our democratic hero Kennedy serviced women like an assembly-line worker spraying car bodies” But, being Julian Barnes, there are other ideas that are arresting, concisely expressed and beautifully crafted :“How do you turn catastrophe into art?
If the boat is becalmed, one of the telescopes will be in continual use; it will seem to tell the whole, the unchanging truth.
But this is an illusion; and as the boat sets off again, we return to our normal activity: scurrying from one telescope to another, seeing the sharpness fade in one, waiting for the blur to clear in another.
I've had 'A History of the World in 10 Chapters' on my "to read" list for almost 15 years, but kept putting it off. Now I know why I was dithering. Despite the glowing commendations of university professors and English literature elitists, I simply could not warm to the text, clever though it was.A loosely connected series of 10 1/2 short stories, art reviews, re-imagined histories, personal ramblings, epistolary travelogues and personal anecdotes, this is the epitome of post-modern fiction. Jul
Despite the glowing commendations of university professors and English literature elitists, I simply could not warm to the text, clever though it was.A loosely connected series of 10 1/2 short stories, art reviews, re-imagined histories, personal ramblings, epistolary travelogues and personal anecdotes, this is the epitome of post-modern fiction.
My main obstacles to enjoyment were the arrogant, foolish and misogynistic male narrators (complemented by the delusional, judgmental female narrators) and the author's struggles with religious belief and Biblical history.The voices are mostly male, including: a worm, an academic, a lawyer, an actor, an astronaut and the author himself.
In a similar way, the stories told from Barnes' own point of view felt highly self-indulgent, like intellectual masturbation.
Despite the fact that I generally like his older books.
Then again, to be fair it's been quite a while since I read one AND liked it.
I have a small pile of books in a shelf in the kitchen.
This book is now sitting on top of a particularly lacklustre vegetarian cookbook I picked up on general principles: there is always a recipe in a cookbook that makes it worthwhile, only to find my principle dashed.
Why would I have had such expectations of a British vegetarian cookbook, I wonder?
Turns out the history of the world revolves around fabulation, woodworms, and love.
226)"Poets seem to write more easily about love than prose writers.
For a start, they own that flexible 'I' (when I say 'I' you will want to know within a paragraph or two whether I mean Julian Barnes or someone invented; a poet can shimmy between the two, getting credit for both deep feeling and objectivity).
We can only turn bad love into prose about bad love.
So we are envious (and slightly distrustful) when poets talk to us about love." (p.
I had forgotten how great this book is.
It's better than I remember.
I think Barnes is best with short pieces that interact with each other.
This is probably the best of the things of his that I've read; I also really enjoyed Pulse, and I think in the same way.
It was also interesting reading this in conjunction with Not Wanted on the Voyage, which I suspect Barnes had read (there's an all-caps use of the phrase which I think is a reference).
I think I agree more with Findley, but find Barnes a better read, even the chapter on shipwreck.
Julian Barnes became one of my favs after reading this book.Each chapter reads as a sperate story but connected by a religious theme in each, albeit a skewed and revisionist view of various religions.
Chapter one starts the book with a hilarious re-telling of Noah's ark by a stowaway...a woodworm.
Chapter 3 revisits the woodworms as they are being tried for heresey after infesting the Bishop's throne, causing the leg to fall off, hence throwing the poor man to the floor and causing him to fall into a "state of imbecility."And so it goes....
It is also obviously inspired by history, in a way that no other book I have ever read is.10.5 chapters is a strange book by many accounts.
Grāmata, kuru īsti nevar ielikt kādā kategorijā, bet man patika. 10 dažādi stāsti, kas vienlaicīgi ir savstarpēji saistīti un tajā pašā laikā nesaistīti. Īpaši patika pirmais stāsts Bezbiļetnieks, arī Trīs vienkārši stāsti un Sapnis.Grāmatas noskaņa kopumā atgādināja tās sarunas studiju laikā kojās, kad bijām jau līdz riebumam salasījušies par visām iespējamām tēmām un personībām un tad sākām bīdīt alternatīvās vēstures un sazvērestības tēmas. Jā, lasot sapratu, ka esmu pasen lasījusi šo darbu, bet pētot bibliotēkā neatcerējos. Bet par spīti šim faktam, man tiešām grāmata patika. Laikam tieši šo uzjundīto sajūtu dēļ.
For example, the theme of Noah’s Ark applies to at least three of the pieces -- a story of the trip in which the Ark is a fleet of filthy prison-like ships under the dubious leadership of a drunken Noah.
References to wormwood, a stow-away on the Ark keep cropping up.Another theme is ships.
There are true stories of the ship the St. Louis, loaded with Jewish refugees, turned away from Cuba in 1939.
And a true story of a Titanic survivor.
Güneşin doğup/batması ve minicik geminin gelmekte/gitmekte olması, bakan kişiye bırakılmıştır.-BÜYÜK MEYVELERİN KENARLARINDA, PAYLAŞABİLMEMİZ İÇİN DİKEY ÇİZGİLER VARDIR.-İdealistin ilahi amaç, iyilik dolu düzen ve adalet bulduğu bu dünyada, Materyalist kaos, rastlantı ve kötülükleri gözler.-Naziler döneminde 937 Yahudi ile Almanya’dan yola çıkan St.Louis gemisinin hiçbir ülkenin limanına kabul edilmediği, iyi düşünülmesi ve unutulmaması gereken bir gerçekliktir.-Söylediklerimizi duyana dek, ne düşündüğümüzü tam olarak bilemeyiz.-Galiba insanoğlu, CENNETİN ne olduğunu tam olarak bilseydi, bu kadar istemeyebilirdi.
What the book excels at the individual chapters (each is eerily distinctive and holds a treasure trove of philosophical discourses and insights), it equally lacks in coherence and unity. It is as if a peculiar curator decides to exhibit the Mona Lisa, Girl in a Pearl Earring, Guernica, and one of Monet's water lilies in a single room. One might marvel at each painting displayed, but can only speculate at the meaning of this all.
Melunasi utang ripiuTerus terang buku ini sepertinya akan menjadi buku terahir yang dibaca bareng oleh "Durjana Book Club" setelah meronggeng bareng dalam buku Ronggeng Dukuh Paruk dan dan beromantis ria sekaligus curcol habis2an dibuku The Wednesday Letters dan setelah berkonferens sambil tereak2, sikut sana sikut sini, ledek sana ledek sini dengan diiringi puisi dengan daya setrum 1000 volt dari sang Malaikat Berbulu ahirnya diputuskan baca buku ini. Oh, how I miss the moment ketika kaum durja
Oh, how I miss the moment ketika kaum durjana saling mendurjanai sesamanya, huhuhu Satu lagi alasan buat ngeberesin ripyunya yaitu ketika sedang ngalor ngidul lewat tengah malam dirumah Tinkerbell tiba2 topiknya nyampe ke buku ini dan langsung membuat seorang sekretaris club curhat  melongo ketika disuruh membaca sebuah Bab dibuku ini.
Mitos akan menjadi realita, betapapun skeptisnya kita.bab 8bab favoritkisah yng berupa surat2 yang dipenuhi dengan rasa cinta dari seorang bintang film bernama charlie kepada pippa kekasihnya (setidaknya itu itu anggapan si charlie).
tapi lama2 sadar ato tidak kita akan mengetahu kalo surat2 cinta charlie ini akan semakin pendek saja dari hari kehari.
(Surely David Mitchell has read this, yes?) A History is usually classed as a comic novel, and while it wasn't farcical or zany, it had an nice understated wit.I particularly enjoyed the "Shipwreck" chapter, which recounted the story of the real wreck of the Medusa, followed by a discussion of a famous French painting based on that event.
Not merely hope, but any burdensome yearning: ambition, hatred, love (especially love) -- how rarely do our emotions meet the object they seem to deserve?
We are all lost at sea, washed between hope and despair, hailing something that may never come to rescue us.
თუ ბედობა დღეს რაიმეს დაბედების რწმენას ოდნავ მაინც შეიძლება ენდო, მშვენიერი წიგნების წაკითხვა დამბედებია.ბიბლიური თემატიკის ასეთი ირონიული გადათამაშება, აქამდე მხოლოდ იესოს სახარებასა და იმ ერთ წიგნში შემხვედრია, რომლის სახელსაც ვერ ვიხსენებ :3
An uneven work, although the second and first half of the fifth chapters are brilliant.
Here Noah loses most of his flotilla and a good part of the animal kingdom: ".
You could even argue, I suppose, that God drove Noah to drink .
the 'second' Noah--the drunkeness, the indecency, the capricious punishment of a dutiful son--well, it didn't come as a surprise to those of us who knew the 'first' Noah on the Ark." As regards love, "Trusting virgins were told that love was the promised land, an ark on which two might escape the Flood.
I love the story about his wife's neck and hair; very romantic. I believe the same wife was Martin Amis's agent and when he got a new agent J. and M. got in a big fight, or something? Hence the three stars; I'm more interested in his dust-up with Martin Amis than his writing. I suppose that's a personal problem.
απλα υπεροχο...
For whatever reason, I like my fiction to cohere in predictable ways; oftentimes when that doesn’t happen, I leave a reading experience feeling less than satisfied. Chalk it up to being weaned on something other than the so-called “postmodern” novel. In several ways, “A History of the World in 10  Chapters” complicates my expectations. It can feel more like a series of short stories than a traditional novel – however, one cannot avoid the interconnectedness they share. The chapters do span the s
The chapters do span the scope of what we call human history, from a re-telling of the story of Noah’s Ark from the perspective of a stowaway woodworm to a chapter clearly based on the 1985 PLF hijacking of the MS Achille Lauro.
A playful jokiness reminiscent of Nabokov and concomitant preoccupation with the mythic (resembling Borges) informs the way in which the chapters speak to and resonate with one another; in “The Wars of Religion,” a Bishop sits down on this throne during a service in church, and immediately falls down due woodworm infestation.
4.5 stjerner
