https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/9370.Skinny_Legs_and_All
I can't think of any other book I've read very recently that left my mind as thoroughly blown as Skinny Legs and All. I'd only read one other Tom Robbins book -- Still Life With Woodpecker -- so I was prepared for his playfulness, humor, intricate (but goofy) language, and overall trippy feel that all come with just about everything he rights.But I was not prepared for Skinny Legs.
I dog-eared more pages and marked more passages in this book than any other I've ever read by a long shot.Skinny Legs deals with so many topics, many of which are classical in nature: love, sex, family, art, compassion, work, religion.
In fact, I did put Skinny Legs down for about six months, but returned to it for two reasons: because unfinished books are like splinters in my mind, and because it took me quite some time to appreciate Robbins' view of the world (as expressed through his writing).I take life far too seriously, all the time, and to my detriment.
This novel is about the way in which these concepts work as veils to obscure our vision from a truer way of knowing the world, and our place in it.
I started this book at least three times.
At the beginning it was too weird, or trying to be too cute, even for Tom Robbins.
He was trying to be too 'Tom Robbins like' or something.
But when I made a decision to finally plow through all of this beginning crap I fell in love, and now this is my favorite Tom Robbins novel.
All the silly and crazy things at the beginning, like the turkey and dirty sock, etc., fall into place, and make sense soon enough.
When it all started to come together it definitely restored my faith in Robbins, and made me love him even more.
Σας έχω πει πόσο αγαπάω τον Ρόμπινς; Να σας το πω ξανά;Τον αγαπώ.Γιατι μπορεί να συνδιάσει χιούμορ και πίκρα,ρεαλισμό και όνειρο, αγάπη και κυνισμό, μπορεί να φτύσει κατάμουτρα τον κόσμο σου όλο και μετά να σε πάρει αγκαλιά και να σε ταΐσει κρουασάν με Μερέντα.
Όταν έπεσαν όλα τα πέπλα η ανθρωπότητα μου φάνηκε πιο φτηνή από ποτέ.Στον απόηχο όλων όσων συμβαίνουν με τον πόλεμο στην Ανατολή,τα τρομοκρατικά χτυπήματα και τα κύματα ρατσισμού, προτείνω να το διαβάσεις.ΛΑΘΟΣ.ΠΡΕΠΕΙ να το διαβάσεις.
Αγάπη, ειρήνη, αδελφοσύνη."Όταν συγκεντρώνεις όλη την προσοχή σου στον παράδεισο,δημιουργείς κόλαση."4,5 αστεράκια, χάνει λίγο,γιατί συγκριτικά με τον τρυποκάρυδο, η ιστορία μου φάνηκε ένα τσακ λιγότερο ενδιαφέρουσα.
Robbins is pretentious as fuck and his writing is what my husband refers to as masturbatory (yes, I read him sections of books I'm into and he usually makes faces at me, a sort of "really, you're reading this?!").
I've tried several times to get him to acknowledge my love of Tom Robbins, but he refuses.If you can't understand why a book about a conch shell, a painted stick, a can of beans and a faded purple sock learning the secrets of life, the universe, and everything is brilliant...well, I just can't help you.Religion is nothing but institutionalized mysticism.
The catch is, mysticism does not lend itself to institutionalization.
And Can o' Beans, Dirty Sock, Spoon, Painted Stick and Conch Shell think he's a genius because he's the only person they've ever met who moves as slowly as they do.I will say this for people who are giving the first pages of the book a browse and finding it hard to decide whether they like it: Robbins starts off with a postmodern BANG that seems to be the product of quite a lot of peyote.
But it also makes me love the trippy passages even more.This is a smart book for smart people, with a surprising number of characters who are not concerned with being Smart People.
Even though I grew a bit tired of this towards the last 100 pages, the fact that half of the main characters were objects like a spoon, a sock, a can of beans, a vibrator, and a stick, and it didn’t annoy the shit out of me = 3.5 rounded up.
this book's jacket description : this book :: funny movie trailer : movie that shot its wad in the trailerThe premise sounds wild and funny and makes you wonder, briefly, how he could pull it off. And then he doesn't.
This is the best book I've ever read! Robbins keeps me on my toes with his vocabulary and uses unique characters to provide interesting perspectives on cultural clashes and life in general. I love this guy!
With such hefty subjects as that, I am inclined to think that if it weren't for its insane quirkiness, the book would have been too depressing, dull, and possibly even more confusing than talking spoons and mobile roast turkeys.Throughout the book Tom Robbins uses the metaphor of veils covering people's eyes, or rather, their consciousness.
I would let the book speak for itself and include a passage but I don't want to ruin it for anyone who intends to read it.
A passage:"You are an artist.
That's a very famous painting.""It ought to be called The Sleeping Arab, that picture.
A lion sniffs at the Arab, the Arab is unafraid..."See the painting...I find this to be one of Robbins' better works.
) is in the upper-tier of my pantheon of books about artists struggling with their voice and their craft.
But slow down a bit, dive a little deeper, and it's on the cusp of overwhelming.But if you're not up for the challenge of its depth, you can still extract that hilarity without too much worry.
His use of the English language is so playful and dangerously intelligent that I can't belive he isn't a bigger literary celebrity.Skinny Legs and All delves into all of life's big issues: religion, politics, love, war, money and so on, though it has a light touch; main characters include a Can 'o Beans and a Dirty Sock, for example.
Each segment of the book is a "veil," and Robbins tackles organized religion head on.
One bit I love: "Early religions were like muddy pools with lots of foliage.
Concealed there, the fish of the soul could splash and feed.
****First off..forget Formatting...this one is Free Form, all the way***5 Stars: This book held my interest for over a month (I'm a slow reader, okay!)....like Gravity's Rainbow it's about Everything..and No One Thing, and it's never boring...Then there's the Wordplay..the lovely English language the most versatile of toys.
The "Third Temple" is coming, soon....don't be square...be there...**in spite of this travesty of a review...I did love this book, and Tom Robbins, the author...don't shy away from the "weird" aspect..that's what fuels his novels**5 Stars...all the way
As with all his other novels, as I read it, I feel that he's got it right, that almost everyone else has it wrong, and that if the world learned to think a little more like him, it would be a far, far, better place.
In this book it feels especially imperative because a main focus is religion (discussed in terms of the Arab and the Jew who own a restaurant together across the street from the U.N. and Ellen Cherry's fire-and-brimstone-preaching uncle, Buddy*).* Whenever I think of Buddy, I think of the line from the T.Rex song "Baby Boomerang" that goes "your uncle with an alligator chained to his leg/dangles you your freedom then he offers you his bed".
Robbins asserts that patriarchal society has blinded us to a heritage that recognizes and rejoices its feminine deities that embrace expressions of sexuality and the magic of nature.
For a book that doesn’t take itself too seriously, it certainly presents some weighty challenges to the status quo.
While I don’t believe that this book will necessarily bring on a feminine revolution, it is a refreshing change of pace and a new point of view to explore.
I don’t know from whence Tom Robbins got his Girl Power, but he certainly doesn’t hold back.
This tainted slab of ham turned out to be a massive milestone in my life of reading stuff.
It marked the moment when I decided that a book DID NOT need to be finished once it was started.
Completely loathing the way it started, I could give a flying fuck how it ended.
I toss partially read books in the donation bin all the time now.Remember life is short, don't waste it reading...For judicious, yet unsettling, use of metaphor check out:http://www.goodreads.com/book/show/97...
In any event, I appreciate and respect this book, but I didn’t enjoy it as much as I wanted to.Skinny Legs and All follows Ellen Cherry Charles, a small-town Virginian woman, as she grows older and wiser in New York City.
And none of what Robbins says about religion is really all that original or thoughtful—he says it very well, of course, but if you’ve read any critiques of or apologies for organized religion, you’re already going to be familiar with these themes.What redeems the book, if anything, is Ellen.
A redneck welder-turned-artist is a close second, expressing his own brand of somewhat confused philosophies regarding art, love, and the state of the world.Robbins uses his pontificating Can O'Beans and the can's animated inanimate friends to take the plot of Skinny Legs and All to a higher level of academic thought than it might otherwise achieve; our main link to the tangled history of the Middle East and the legendary city of Jerusalem is a Painted Stick, a Conch Shell, and Can o'Beans him/herself.We start the story sitting with Boomer and Ellen Cherry in their honeymoon getaway vehicle: a gigantic welded roast turkey on wheels.
I am a Tom Robbins fan, but I was a little disappointed in this book.
Both are MUST-reads.My whole theory on how Tom Robbins writes a book:--step 1: find some random unlikely stuff to be associated-- people, places, things, or topics.--step 2: weave them together using witty humour, a renegade main character, some sort of historical or theological revelation tied into all random people places or things.I'm used to his ways and even though he has a formula of some sort, I love him and it's entertainment and originality every time.
The end was still good and tied just about everything together in a nice little sensical bow.
The ideas themselves are not funny, only their remoteness and juxtaposition are funny.Once in a while, Robbins hits gold with an apt comparison, like calling the waning daylight of late afternoon “lame duck daylight,” or describing a woman as being “on the dry side of thirty.” My favorite might have been a description of a man’s gaudy, mismatched clothing making a character feel as though she was being “pistol-whipped with a kaleidoscope.” There were enough of these truly creative – not just clever, but artistically creative – sentences to keep me turning the pages.There are two and a half parallel stories in the novel.
There are those books which start off nice and slow, pouring in the literary concrete in the first half to pave the way for the dazzling kapow punch that usually comes in the second half.
It certainly gets off to a sluggish start, to the point where about 150 pages into the novel I was thinking what is Robbins doing, where is he taking us here?
The novel definitely gets better the deeper you go but Robbins seemed to be more intent on showcasing his word wizardry and literary pyrotechnics through his, trying-to-be-glib humour, which often falls short.
This read a lot like an unfocused, ADD-addled Kurt Vonnegut novel.
But the fact that it reminded me of Vonnegut in any way means it's worth a read, if nothing else.
Kind of.Robbins' prose is evocative, full of similes and ripe description that sometimes means something.
It just doesn't read as composed as it feels like it should be/thinks it is.
I guess both the prose and the jokes came off as too "look how clever I am".
And while sometimes the prose was, I wasn't really floored by any of it.
it seems impossible to review this book other than to say you should read it. It faithfully explores the human condition, the importance of asking/struggling with the best questions (philosophy), religion, sexuality, art, politics, family and biblical history, employing humor, sarcasm, eroticism, history and other novel devices. The storyline is small, like most of our lives, but huge in impact. He is an incredibly unique author who is a joy to read. I thank my dear friend John for giving me the gift of this work of art!
3.5/5I enjoyed this book, and the story was quite satisfying. But Robbins hackneyed digressions and similes turned me off. I found my eyes glazing over the words or simply skipping paragraphs. I felt that Ellen was a clearly drawn character but the others like Boomer or Spike or even Buddy didn't quite seem as clear. Hopefully the next Robbins book I read will be more satisfying.
Τέχνη, θρησκεία, έμπνευση και σουρεαλισμός. Επίκαιρο περισσότερο από ποτέ. Πρώτη φορά που ο ελληνικός τίτλος ενός βιβλίου (στην προκειμένη περίπτωση "ο χορός των εφτά πέπλων") αντιπροσωπεύει πολύ πιο βαθιά το νόημα του βιβλίου το από αυτόν που έδωσε ο συγγραφέας.
I read this a long time ago but it still plays with my head now. After that I got caught up in Robbins' books. Then, well, other books came in and I lost my way. Must get back and read more. Maybe Can of Soup, Stick, Spoon, and Dirty Sock will welcome me back. How I miss them!
his best book, in my opinion. spiritually themed, richly philosophical, a little dirty and not afraid to be silly. robbins' language is reliably lush and off-beat. oh, and i loved the commentary about art and art scenes.
I read this in high school, and I'm not sure if I would like it better now, or hate it now.
I want an eighth veil -- revealing the illusion that the dropping of veils of illusion leads to "enlightenment."
"Nella casa di spettri della vita, l'arte è l'unica scala che non cigola"
